UNIVERSITY
or
MIW ffl USB,
6

SOUTH-EEHD, Ind.
cDOEilFA^ IMinter,.
-	Notbe Dame Du Lac University, 7	i
.. January T, 1850. $
We deem it a gratification to the friends of the Institution and
to the public at large, to publish yearly the names of its Profes-	J
sors and students, with a few introductory remarks on its actual	'
state, its chief characteristics and true principles.	-
The University has gradually perfected ;ts various departments,
and having surmounted the many obstacles which unavoidably
attend thebeginning of similar institutions, it is confidently hoped
that it will extend the sphere of its usefulness To the satisfaction .
of its early patrons.	.	■
Having no evil design, we never sought to conceal our mode o/ ;
action. ' To Catholics we al ways"'said,“and we now rep^^^ ......... .
a thoroughly religious education, which they must naturally ex-
pect, shall be imparted to t^eir children; the possibility of negli-
gence in this respect, cannot even be thought of by a serious
mind. To those who do not belong to the Catholic faith, we
promised not to interfere with their religious tenets, merely re-
quiring them to assist at the religious exercises with decorum;
and now, after an experience of six yearsr wO fearlessly appeal ,
to the many honorable non-Catholic young gentlemen who have *
loft our ranks, for a contradiction of the false rumors, which have
been or may be hereafter circulated about the Institution. The j
reciprocal regard and affection, which they have acquired for the . .
members of the Institution during their residence in it, ought to
dispel the fanciful dangers of ignorance and prejudice.	j
Ill disposed and indolent students may dislike that strict disci**
pline which regulates every minute of The. day, that watchfulness J
of prefects and professors, which prevents them from losing their
time in idle conversations or. dangerous parties,yand the reprimand ,
or punishment which follows a breach of duty; but to the well-	i
disposed young men^ these means are so many incentives to.vir-	j
tue and a diligent performance of the laboriousTasl^, which ena- .
ble him to do justice to his parents and to himself, and he finds his *	‘
exertions fully compensated by the cheering anticipation of being
soon proficient in all those branches which fit a man for a bril-
Iiant career m society.^_________—	--— ----------	"
" ^tudents find Tn~ their Collegiate life here, not only powerful	,
means of emulation, but pure and heartfelt enjoyments, which	’
will hereafter fill their minds with the most agreeable recollec-	i
tions and their hearts with the sweetest emotions. Among these	i
we will mention the weekly notes of the Professors, the monthly	■
examinations and exhibitions, at which medals, ribands and hon-	*
or&bb mentions are giv^nTo: ©very onp- according to M	s
These exhibitions; take place on the first Tuesday of the month,
at 4 o’clock P. M., and the public are invited for the. months of
November, January, March and May. The names of those who
have deserved the approbation of all the faculty are proclaimed and
they remain exposed in the hall during the following month.—
The names of those who have deserved the disapprobation of all
their professors are also proclaimed and inscribed on the list of
shame. On the W ednesday which follows the exhibition, the stu-
dents whose conduct has been blameless during the previous
month, are allowed to visit their parents or friends, if so desired
by the latter. Another source of emulation and enjoyment is
offered to many of the students1 who belong to the philharmonic
and the Debating Society, each of which has its officers selected
among the pupils. These societies enliven our public festivities,
by appropriate addresses and musical performances. The members
then appear with their flags and decorations. These two Socie-
ties celebrate every year their own festivals. Skating in winter,
-swimming insummer, and the equestrian and gymnastic exercises
are for all the students cheering and healthy exercises. But still

greater delights are reserved for the better portion of our pupils,
for those who love their studies. Their progress in Natural Sci-
ence is facilitated by an apparatus, a museum and Mr. T. Caw-
in’s collection of 4000 plants, and their efforts are rewarded by
the semi-annual reports of. the Professors to their parents, and
a solemn distribution of premiums and diplomas for degrees.—
This distribution which always begins on the third of July at half
past 1 P. Mm has become a day of lively interest for the whole
vicinity. It also gives our young Students an excellent oppor- -
tunity. of bringing themselves into public esteem and considera-
tion. '	.	.
After these few observations, every one will perceive that noth-
ing has been spared, to create emulation and to unite all possi-
ble enjoyments with the regularity of discipline. Professors con-
aider it a part of their duty to contribute to the happiness as well as
to the advancement of their pupils.
We give below the names of the members of the faculty and
those of the students actually .following tho various courses of
the University,________	.
Rev. E. SORIN, President, Professor Moral and Religious Instruction.
Rev. WM. MASTERSON, Professor of Latin and English.
Mr. E. DUSSAULX, Professor of Music, Penmanship and Drawing.
Mr. M. GIRAC, Professor of Latin, Greek, French and Music.
Mr. F. X. BYE RLE Y, Professor of Mathematics and English.
Bro. GATIAN, Professor of Book-Keeping and Arithmetic. '
Bro. THOMAS, Professor of Arithmetic, and the Preparatory course of
• English. •	■	.	.	. ■
Bros. VICTOR & ANSELM, Prefects of Discipline.	■(
STUDENTS
John Riley, of Bertrand. Mich.
George Fox, of Niles, Mich.
Francis Donaghoe, South Bend, la,
Richard Allen, of Terre Haute, la.
Wm. • Kenney j of Chicago, Ill. :
Patrick Daly, of Niles. Mich. ’
Francis Woodworth, S. Bend, la.
John Carle,	.	’
Michael Judge, of Madison, la. .
Tho’s. Slavin, of Niles, Mich.
Tho’s ;Vagmir, St. Joseph Co. la.
Jas. Baurgelt, of South Bend, la.
Joseph Labadie. “ . “
John Piquette, of Detroit, Mich.
Francis’ Bracken, of Niles, Mich
Jas. Amal aw, of Detroit, Mich.
John Woodworth, of S. Bend, la.
John Mulqueen, of Bertrand,Mich
Edward Byerley, of S. Bend, la.
-Timothy L. Etourneau, of Detroit
John Bracken, of Niles, Mich.
Wm. J. Fenton, of Bertrand Mich.
John Kough, of Niles, Mich,
Samuel Good, of South Bend, la.
Theodore Coquillard	“
Jonathan Cottrell,	“ “
Chas.’ Nichols, Union Mills, la.
John Campau, of Detroit, Mich.
Chas. 'Williams, : ’
Norris Bertrand,of South Bend,la,
Henry Myers, St. Joseph Co. la.
Jeremiah Fenessey, 11 J'
John Mitchell, of Kendallville/la.
Chas. G. Mitchell, , “ , . “ :
Francis Wolke, of Fort Wayne,la.
Frederick Wolke,	.
Calvin Anderson, il 1 J ;
John Winter, of Boston, Mass.
Geo. Reed, of Huntington, da.
Neal H, Gillespie, of Lancaster O.;
Samuel Wetzler, ' “ .	“ ’
Jas; Aveline, of Peru, la.
Peter Waller, of Lake Co. la.
Patrick Glennen, Rochester N Y.
John Fitzpatrick, of Goshen, la,
Richard Ferris, of Mishawaka, la.
John Lafontine, of Huntington, la.
John Scheffer, of Lake Co. la.
Thomas Fallahey, of Chicago, TH.
John Doyle, of Monroe, Mich-
Patrick Falls, of South Bend, In.
Michael Falls,	“
Chas. Drapier.	u
Wm. Drapier,	u “
Boardman Jennings,St. Joseph Co.
P. Mulgucen, of Bertrand, Mich.
N. B.—There are also thirteen Students in Theology, not included in
the above list.
The Scholastic year is divided into two sessions, the first commencing
on the first Friday of September, and the second on the first of February.
Terms: $45 for each.	.
The Female department is located in Bertrand, Berrien County, Mich,
under the name of St. Mary’s Academy, and follows nearly the same mode
of teaching and discipline, The terms are $30 per session.
E. SORIN, President,