. *a i
MOT-RE DAME DU LAC,
ST. JOSEPH COUNTY, INDIANA.
0 o «1 o o
REGISTER OFFICE,
SOUTHBE1U) Indiana.
Notre Dame Da I^ac University, >	‘ ■1
January I, 1851. y
Whilst offering to the numerous well-wishers of the Institution a
few brief remarks upon its present condition, I beg first to tender our
humble and grateful acknowledgments, for the various and highly
gratifying compliments which have been addressed to us by parent's
and guardians, on- the progress and general improvement of their sons
and wards. Indeed, after bestowing upon a child, all possible at- ’
tention. in furtherance of a fond parent’s most sanguine desire, it is
to us a rich reward to see that parent fully satisfied. It must not be
concealed that the ending session has afforded us this special joy,
w’hich has-been often increased by consideration, of the honorable
sources whence, it proceeded^ - „	' ,	■	■ '
T^numher of Students not much greater than it Was, during
the last scholastic year. There is, as'usually and to the heart-felt
gratification of all, not only excellent health, peace, and perfect har-
mony, but also a marked improvement in the several classes, on the
score of emulation, docility, sense of propriety, or good manners,
to the last of which, particular attention has- been paid’. Book-
keeping, as its importance requires, has received a double amount
of labor, and those who study jt, advance in equal ratio. The
French class, also, has been' more numerously attended, and bids:
fair for distinction at the coming exhibition in July. In a word,
the tout ensemble, shows a decided onward progress, equally con-
soling to the friends of the Institute, and encouraging to the Stu-
dents and Professors.
Now, at the risk of alarming some tender Mother’s heart, whilst
assigning a proper cause for for this gratifying condition of the
University, it must be stated, that this improvemnnt which has.
been the cause of no small surprise to some parents, is chiefly to-
be attributed to what is called a strict discipline. Under this some-
what hasty expression, however, is not meant severe or tyranni-
cal treatment, but simply a sufficient energy, ever in. readines to' -
enforce the rules of the Institution. These rules; or rather, cer-
tain internal regulations, are at the same time equally binding out
the Professor, and on the Student, the former’s negligence in ob-^
serving them, would be sufficient grounds for his removal; and iw
fact, two professors of superior talents and abilit es, have been re-
moved, in less than 12 months, for a want of thorough devoted-
ness to the interests of their respective pupils; air occurrence its
. itself that ought to be a sufficient guarantee to parents, of the-
.y^yesident’s determination to correspond faithfully to die trust re-'
W-	him. When all “the Professors exhibit themselves an ex-
:WJk)f punctuality, they may easily claim, and ought to obtains
''exact fidelity'Oh "the part of~theii\ pupils. Nor should,
T v^’^TyNweh^ by any parent that such a strict compliance-
to some degree, with content-
Tijoyment. Youth,-aS well cis manhood, requires order,.
s first lawfi and to reconcile the happiness ol am
individuals with any thing like confusion and arbm
would be as difficult as to prove the happiness el any*
being out ofits natural sphere. To teach youth by early practice, regs
ularaud s’eady habits, asthey advance in life, will prove an indestructi-
ble bulwark’.of strength against many a deceptive voice or vicious in-
clination. Should they bring home from College nothing more than
alove for order, their time has notbeen thrown away; forisuch an ac-
quisition is the foundation of future usefulness;- it is a basis, on which
may be built extensive reading, commercial pu suits or business
habits. This principle of order, which forms one of the wost'im-
portant features of a complete education, is brought again and
again before the Students of Notre Dame, not so much by a te-
dious repetition of its theoretical utility, as by an easy, habitual
practice of the thing itself. Even the youngest carry the sweet
yoke of discipline, and an instance it yet to be found, of even one
of those desirous of profiting by their collegiate course, who con-
siders it in, any other light than a necessary means of iinprovement.
They are soon led to believe, that superior natural talents become
paralyzed through -want of order, and are likely to be of little, if
any advantage, whereas even ordinary abilities, when kept in or-
der, are almost sure of success. The very physical constitution
in youth greatly depends also upon rhis same point. No one will
hesitate to agree that regular hours for sleep, refreshment, study
and recreation, must be highly conducive to the formation of vigor7
ous healthy constitutions, and indeed, to the neglect of this early
regularity may be be ascribed with justice many cases of premature
debility; of juvenile senility, if it be allowable so to express it, which
under proper training, might be enjoying life with the vigor of man-
hood. To those who are anxious that the minds of their children in
The .first stage of life should be imbued with becoming mo* al and
religious feelings, it will be sufficient to observe that the Students of
this University, are never left, either day or night, without a Prefect.
They are consequently always watched over with the greatest at-
tention. ' The past sufficiently proves, that, whilst undue inter-
ference is ever used with respect to those children w-hose parents
do not belong to the Catholic Church, religious principles and prac-
tice are made the basis of all Catholic Students, and that no special
recommendation in relation to that subject^ can possibly so much
influence the spiritual directors of the Institution as a proper sense
of their own awful responsibility. AH these, collectively and indi-
vidually, whether Catholic or Protestant, who are immediately or
more remotely interested in the condition of Notre Dame University,
may feel fully assured. that no labor shall be spared, no conscien-
tious responsibility shall be refused, tending to make it really, what
it was originally designed for,—m seat of Learning, of Religion,
mid of good Morals, the buildings destroyed last fall by. an una-
voidable accident, have noiv been nearly replaced in a more sub-
stantial and more convenient form. 2111 possible attention has been
given to providing suitable acco.mmodations for the inmates of the
University in case of sickness. The Infirmary is under the man-
agement of the Sisters of the Holy Cross, -whose Christian charity,
and motherly kindness are too well, known to need any .special
mention in this place. .	’	.	,	.
The following are the names of the boarders, together with their
places of residence, who have entered since the commencement of
the present scholastic year. I must be permitted to say that among
them, eleven have been deemed, at the last board of the Faculty,
worthy to be inscribed fora month, on the Tableau of Honor.
STUDEN TS.
Thos. Doyle, Niles, Michigan.
Patrick Daily, “	“
Pat’k. Mulqueen, St. Jo. Co. Ind
J no. Mulqueen, “	“
JohnReilley, Bertrand, Mich.
Joseph Zahm, Mishawaka, Ind.
Pat’k Conway, New Orleans, La.
Wm. Kenny, Chicago, III. .
Jas- Taylor, Cincinnati, Ohio.
R i e h a rd L. T ay I o r, “	“
W. F. Borden, Fort ICayne, Ind.
Francis Woodworth. 5’. Bend, “
John Woodworth, “	“
James Hamlin, Detroit, Mich.
Francis Bracken, Niles,
Thos. Vagnier, St.Joseph Co. Ind
John Kough, South Bend,	“
Ross Pierce, Berre Coupee, “
Louis Planchenau, N.Orleans,La.
Thaddeus Taylor. S. Bend, Ind.
Louis English, Lagro,	“
James English, “	“
T i m o t h y L ’ E t o u r n e a u, D e 11 • o it, M
Louis J. L’Etournean,	“	“
Francis Bveakem-idge,	li	“
Charles Williams,	“	“
John B. Campau,	“	“
Eugene Hall,	“	“
George A. Nesbitt,	“	“
C. Vandandreischor,’	“	“
Peter Cooney, Monroe, Mich.
N. B.—It wrill doubtless be a cause of gratification to many when
they are informed that a Post-Office has been lately established here,
by the name of Notre Dame under my own direction. For this val-
uable accommodation wo are indebted to’our kind neighbors, and
William Fenton, Bertrand, Mich,
J Hiram P. Murphy, Chicago, III.
iJohn II. Bracken, Niles, Mich.
| Theodore Coquillard, S.Bend.Ind.
i Palmer McCartney, Bertrand, M.
! Thos. Fly mi, New Orleans, La.
। J. Drulliuer, Berre Coupee, Ind.
' John Fitzpatrick, Gos hen, “
Francis Kelley, “	>
' Michael Martin, Midi. City, Ind.
i Andrew Rielly, “	“	“
j Nathan Jacobs, Detroit, Mich.
I John Beard, Mishawaka, Ind.
I Win. Smith, Matamoras, Mexico.
j Wm. Minton, Kalamazoo, Mich.
; Harley Bascum, Jackson, “
j Joseph R. Greascl, Detroit, “
! Wm.Muhlhausen, Evansville, Indi
I Nathan B.Palmer,Indianapolis, “
| C ou rtlan d E g b e r t, Be r re Coupee,li
■ Jas. McKune, New Buffalo, Mich.
j N. II. Gillespie, Lancaster, Ohio.
. S.A.Wetzler, “	“
Patrick Glennen, Rochester, N. K
; Jas> Bryant, South Bend. Ind.
J Mr. McGuire, White Pigeon, Midi.
pas. Mullaney, Laporte, Ind.
jDanl. Carmody, New Orleans, La.
I Thomas Slavin, Niles, Mich.
> Thos. Lafontaine, Huntington,Ind.
especially to Con. Fitrgekald, of Niles to whom we return‘our
most sincere thanks. Letters addressed to this Post-Office will be
received one day sooner, when not superscribed “South Bend,” hut
simply “Notre Dame Du Lac, St. Joseph County, Indiana.”
I cannot close these remarks without adding, that we look forward
with extreme pleasure for several distinguished personages, whose
promised visit,-the ensuing session, will make an epoch, not alone in
the annals of the university, but also through the whole vicinity.
The Students in Theology are not included in the above list. .
The Scholastic year is divided into two sessions, the first com-
mencing on the first of September, and the second on tile first of
February.	. .
The Female department is located in Bertrand, Berrien County,
Michigan, under the name of St. Mary’s Academy, and follows
nearly the same mode of teaching and discipline.	’
‘	E. SORIN, President-