C A T A L 0 G U E
OF THE
0TT1CEES
AND
STUDENTS
OF THE
INDIANA,
AT THE BEGINNING OF THE ACADEMIC YEAR
1854-55.
-SSS“=~--------
U • PRINTED AT THE OFFICE OF THE WESTERN TABLET:
fwi	1855
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
----—-a*—---------
In the year 1834 the Rev. S. T. Badin, the Patriarch of the Ameri-
can priesthood, whilst traveling through the northern counties of Indiana,
visited the spot now known by the name of Notre Dame du Lac,^ butthen
lying unknown and unnoticed in its native forest wildness and beauty.
Struck by its loveliness, or, to speak more correctly, secretly influenced by
that Providence who directs the most apparently unimportant events for
the accomplishment of its own eternal designs, Father Badin resolved at
once to secure this spot to the Church, as the site of a future College.
This resolution he executed, and in the year 1837 it passed into the
hands of the Right Rev. Bishop of Vincennes, and after his death into
those of his successor, Monsignor de la Hailandiere who transferred it
to Rev. Mr. Bach, Priest of the Mission,under the obligation that with-
in two years he should have erected or at least commenced a College
building, and a Novitiate upon the site. Mr. Bach dying soon after
and his society failing to fulfill the required conditions, at the expiration
of the proscribed period, Bishop de la Hailandiere gave the land under
the same stipulations to Rev. Father Sorin, Priest of the Holy Cross, who
with a few lay brothers of the same society had come to America a year and
two months before. In 1842 they first took possession of the place, and in
a few years were enabled by the blessing of God and under the patronage
of the blessed Virgin Mary to erect a fine and commodious College build-
ing, which having been lately very much enlarged and improved, can well
* The name of the Institution has insensibly changed from “Notre Dame du
Lac” to the simple one of “Notre Dame,” from the alteration made by the depart-
ment at Washington, at the time when a Post Office was granted to the University}
a favor due to the kind exertions of the late Hon. Henry Clay. Correspondents
will therefore please direct henceforth their letters to “Notre Dame, St. Joseph
Co., Ind.,” without the addition of “ near Southbend.’’ In writing to the Presi-
dent no letters need be paid, as he is the Post Master.
4
CATALOGUE OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
•compare at present with, any literary institution of the Western States*
It was incorporated by the Legislature of Indiana in the year 1844.
COURSE OF STUDIES.
The collegiate course occupies six years, comprising the preparatory
classes, unless students have already attained a certain proficiency in the
English.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT,
FIRST TEAR.
Session—Latin Grammar, English -Grammar, Geography, Writing
and Arithmetic, Historia Sacras.
2nd Session—The same as the first year, with Greek Grammar, Historia
Grsecae, Latin and Greek Exercises, History of the U. S.
SECOND YEAR.
1st Session—Latin, Greek, and English Grammars, Latin and Greek Ex-
ercises, Geography, and History of the U. S., Writing, Arithmetic,
Book-keeping and Ancient History.
2nd Session—Latin, Greek, and English Grammars, Greek and Latin
Exercises, Cornelius Nepos, Ovid’s Metamorphoses, Allsop’s Fables
in Greek, Writing, Arithmetic, Book-keeping, Mythology, and Mo-
dern History.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
DIVIDED IN -DOUR, YEARS.
FIRST YEAR—HUMANITIES.
1st Session—Cassar or Sallust, or both, Virgil, (Eclogues and Georgies),
Lucian’s Dialogues, Prosody of Latin and Greek Grammar analyzed,
Rules for the formation of style, Exercises in the three languages,
Algebra and Geometry.
.2nd Session—Cicero, Virgil’s ADneid, Xenophon’s Cyropaedia, Algebra
and Geometry continued.
SECOND YEAR—POETRY.
4^ Session—Livy, Virgil’s PEneid, and Horace’s Art of Poetry explained
and committed to memory, Homer’s Illiad, (4 first books,) Trigom
iometry and Surveying.
CATALOGUE OK NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
5
^nd Session—Cicero’s Orations. Horace’s Odes, Homer’s Illiad continued,
Mensuration and Analytical Geometry, Compositions in English, and
Latin; Descriptions, Letters and Narrations written after models.
Analysis of approved specimens in prose and poetry.
THIRD YEAR—RHETORIC.
'1st Session—Tacitus, Demosthenes, Homer’s last books, Precepts of Rhe-
toric, (Quintillian’s Institutions,) Study of Ancient and Modern Li-
terature, Compositions of Orations in English and Latin, Analysis of
the most famous specimens of eloquence.
2nd Session—The same as the first, but more attention is paid to speci-
mens of Ancient and Modern eloquence, Analysis of the same, and
compositions of longer and more serious orations, Debates on grave
subjects.
EOURTII YEAR--PHILOSOPHY.
Study of Logic, Metaphysics and Ethics, floral and Natural Philoso-
phy, Astronomy and Chemistry, illustrated by lectures and experiments.
These studies are rendered interesting to the student by the manner in
which they are here pursued.
Beside the regular lectures and dmeussions, Dee discussions on Philoso-
phy are encouraged. Every celebrated author referred to and every sys-
tem examined.
The study of the Erench language'can be pursued at this Un^rsity
with unusual facilities, as it is universally spoken in the Society wL has
charge of the Institution, many of whose members are very fine Ei^ ?h
scholars. German, Snanisb, and Italian are also taught, but with MU’.c
and Drawing all these languages form extra charges.
O	O O	o
Every pupil on entering the University is examined by the Prefect of
Studies, and placed at once in that class to which his attainments and
abilities indicate that he should belong. lie is from that time encouraged
and incited in every possible way to study, and if he should make unusual
progress he is not allowed to be kept back by his classmates, but is pro-
moted to a higher class. He may proceed regularly on through the usual
course of study, or may take if preferred a partial course, which to a stu-
dent who already possesses a good knowledge of the common English
branches and Latin grammar, may be completed in two years. This
course however does not pretend to make of him a Classical scholar, but
to give him a thorough English and Mathematical education, with that
^complete knowledge of Book-keeping, and that fund of general inform a _
6
CATALOGUE 05 NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
tion indispensable to young merchants. Those however, who desire to fit
themselves for the learned professions can have here the best facilities un-
der most able professors, and though the departments of Law and Medi-
cine are not yet opened, they are included in the Charter of the Univer-
sity, and it is hoped that at no very distant period the young graduates of
Notre Dame will be enabled to make their professional as well as Classi-
cal course at their Alma Mater. Indeed the commencement may be said
to be already made, as the President has lately secured the services of
Thomas Mackinnis, M.D., who made bis studies and received his degrees
at the celebrated Universities of Glasgow and Paris *
A candidate for the degree of Bachelor of Arts must have pursued the
usual classical course, and have undergone an examination in Moral and
Natural Philosophy and in Chemistry, and if he can give satisfactory
proof of having pursued the study of Philosophy and Literature for three
■ years after leaving College, or should he be admitted to any of the learned
professions, he may receive the degree of Master of Arts.
There is, immediately after the winter term a private examination at
which all the Eaculty assist. The principal and public examination and
the annual commencement take place during the last week of June.
There are in the College various societies of the students, formed for
different objects. The St. Aloysius, a literary society, St. Cmcelias, a
musical association, the Confraternity of the Nocturnal Adoration, and
the Arch-Confraternity. There is also a military company composed of
students, who have regular parades, and whose arms and accoutrements
are furnished by the State.
The Institution is possessed of an ample and valuable library; a com-
plete set of Chemical and Philosophical Apparatus, and an unequalled col-
lection of plants; comprising over four thousand specimens, to collect
which was the labor of the learned Thomas Cauvin, Ex-President of the
Scientific Congress of Europe, during fifty years.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to pre-
serve the most perfect order and regularity. The morals and general de-
portment of the pupils are assiduously watched over, and their comfort
and personal habits receive the same attention as if they were members
of the most refined family. Only conciliating means of correction are
used, but if the student proves insensible to these he is promptly dismissed
from the College.
* A private class of Medicine will be opened as soon as any applicants may pre-
sent themselves-
CATALOGUE OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
1
The religion professed in the institution is Catholic, but in reception of
pupils no distinction of creed is made, and there is no interference with
the principles of non-Catholics. Good order however requires that all
should conform with decorum to the usages of public worship. Catholic
parents may rest assured that the most zealous care will be exercised over
their children, in respect to frequent and regular compliance with their
religious duties, and that no effort will be spared to instruct them fully
in the principles and obligations of their holy religion.
The annual charge for Board, Washing, and Tuition in
English Course, is -	-	-	-	$125 00
Latin and Greek -	-	-	-	-	20 00
Spanish, Italian, French and German, (each) -	12 00
Instrumental Music,	-	-	-	-	2000
Bed and Bedding, -	-	-	-	5 00
The entrance Fee is -	-	-	-	-	5 00
Class Books, Stationery, &c., furnished at the usual prices; payment
to be made invariably in advance.
No boarder will be received for a shorter period than five months.
Each pupil must be provided with six shirts, six pair of stockings, six
pocket handkerchiefs, six towels, a knife and fork, a table and teaspoon, a
hat and cap, two suits of clothes, an overcoat, a pair of shoes and of
boots, for winter; and three suits of clothing and two pair of shoes for
summer.
Pocket money is not allowed except as placed in the hands of the
Treasurer, and subject to his discretionary application.
When parents wish to have their children sent home, they must give
timely notice, settle all accounts, and supply means to defray all tra-
veling expenses.
If the student remains during vacation there is an additional charge
of ^20 for board and washing,
The enlargement and improvement of the College since last year will
enable the officers to receive many who could not be before admitted for
want of room. The two wings recently added to the main building, contain
each five rooms, 66 feet by 40, perfectly ventilated; indeed 250 boarders
can be better accommodated now than 100 could a year ago.
A large brick house has also been erected in the rear of the College'
for the keeping, washing, &c. of the linens and clothes of the Institution.
Over the Lake are to be seen the two picturesque Novitiates of the Priests
(St. Aloysius,) and of the Brothers, (St. Joseph’s.)
8
CATALOGUE OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Among the peculiar and unusual advantages which Notre Dame pre-
sents as a place for education may be noticed,
1st Its retired location. At a time and in a country where serious and
solid studies are rare, where dissipations of every kind are thrown in the
way of the young student, where visits and visitors often interrupt the course
of the scholar, where morals are but slightly watched over; it seems that
every parent who desires to secure to his son an opportunity to spend use-
fully and profitably the few years of his education, and to pass safely the
dangerous season of early youth, removed from all the temptations of our
large cities, should readily comprehend as many have already, the pro-
priety of placing him in such an Institution as Notre Dame.
Here the young student is under the most watchful and paternal care ■
here he can apply himself undisturbed to his studies under the best pro-
fessors to be found in the country ; and on extremely moderate terms he
may acquire a solid knowledge of every thing he may wish to devote his
attention to; here also his young mind breathes an atmosphere of piety,
whose influences will linger about him through all his future life.
2d. Its Northern and healthy site. 1 his is a point especially worthy the
consideration of Southerners, many of whom having placed their children
at Notre Dame, hardly recognize them after a year or two, in the stout,
healthy and rosy-faced boys into which they have been transformed.
3d. The Extensive Grounds of the Institution. If the students are
here deprived of hurtful pleasures and dissipations, they are the more
freely offered those delightful and innocent amusements which the nature
of the locality so abundantly provides. The extensive forests surround-
ing the College give the best opportunities to those who are fond of hunt-
ing ; while the beautiful lakes upon whose banks the University is built,
afford the students choice fishing grounds in summer, and almost unin-
terrupted skating during the winter.
^th. Care in Sickness. The students when ill do not have to remain in
their College rooms, but are transferred to the airy and pleasant apartments
of the Infirmary, where they are attended by a most skillful physician re-
siding at the Institution, and nursed with devoted care by old and ex-
perienced Sisters, who never leave them alone night nor day, and who
strive to take fully the place of their absent mothers.
A fact may also be mentioned, which cannot fail to present a great im
ducement to many parents who have both sons and daughters whom they
wish to place at school, the near vicinity and the intimate relations exist-
ing between the University at Notre Dame, and St. Mary’s Academy, at
Bertrand, both of which are under charge of the same association. Young
CATALOGUE OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
9
brothers and sisters placed at these institutions, can correspond daily if
they choose by mail, and see one another very frequently. It is also
very convenient for parents residing at a distance, who thus can visit both
their children at the same time, and have them together with themselves
again.^ Other advantages could be adduced, but we think enough is
said to induce many a discerning and anxious parent to patronize the
University.
* St, Maryas Academy is situated at Bertrand Mich., six miles from Notre
Dame. It is under the charge of accomplished ladies, Sisters of the Holy Cross,
and is fully equal as a place for the education of female youth, to the University
of Notre Dame as one for young gentlemen. The Academy buildings have been
much enlarged since last year, and the corns of teachers increased.
2
FACULTY
AND OTHER COLLEGE OFFICERS:
REV. E. SORIN, S.S.C., President.
REV. M. ROONEY, S. S. C., Vice-President,
Director of Studies and Prefect of Discipline.
REV. R. A. SHORTIS, S.S.O., General Secretary,
Professor of English.
REV. E. KILROY, S.S.C.,
Professor of Natural Philosophy.
REV. L. DEVOSS, S.S.C.,
Professor of Greek, Latin and French.
BRO. STEPHEN,
Treasurer of the Boarders.
BRO. BASIL, J.,
Professor of German and Instrumental Music.
BRO. AMEDEUS, X, Assistant Secretary.
BRO. BONAVENTURE, X,
Prof, of Arithmetic and Book-keeping.
BRO. BERNARD, J.,
Tutor of the Junior Department.
MR. JAMES BYRNE,
Assistant- Tutor of the Junior Department.
GARDNER JONES, L.L.D.,
Professor of Logic, Metaphysics and Ethics.
THOS. MACKINNIS, M.D.,
Prof, of Belles Lettres, Italian, Spanish and Chemistry.
MR. D. J. MORIARTY,
Prof, of Mathematics, English and Penmanship.
MR. ACKERMAN,
Prof, of Drawing and Painting.
BRO. BENEDICT, J., ) n
BRO. EDWARD, J., 5 Pmmcts.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS
ENTERED EROM SEPTEMBER TO DECEMBER, 1854.
NAME.	RESIDENCE.
Adderly, William	Niles, Mich.
Bolton,-James	Indianopolis, Ind.
Berger, Joseph	Detroit, Mich.
Bellaire, Octavius	Detroit, Mich.
Beaubien, Joseph	Detroit, Mich.
Bosse, Achill	Bourbonnais Grove, HL
Brown, George	Chicago, Ill.
Burke, John	Cedarsburg, Wis.
Bunbury, Henry	Kalamazoo, Mich.
Bunbury. William	Kalamazoo, Mich.
Belles, Francis	Joliet, .Ill.
Carmody, Patrick	New Orleans, La.
Carroll, John P.	Toledo, Ohio.
Chapoton, Alexander	Detroit, Mich.
Conway, Patrick	New Orleans, La.
Connerton, Thomas	Detroit, Mich.
Cody, Michael	La Salle, Ill.
Corby, John	Detroit, Mich.
Corby, Daniel	Detroit, Mich.
Corby, Michael	Detroit, Mich.
Cutter, John	Port Washington, Wis.
Cottin, Vincent	South Bend, Ind.
CATALOGUE OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
13
NAME. Cottin, Francis Cottin, Joseph Cottin, George Daliet, Emile Depau, Charles Drake, James Desnoyers, Louis Doyle, George Doyle, John De Hodiamont, George Dermody, Phillips English, Thomas English, Louis English, James Early, John Flanagan, Terence Flanagan, Francis Foulkes, Diehard Flynn, John Francis, Willis Farrell, William Fairman, John Fitch, Henry Foley, Jeremiah Forrester, Peter Foulkes, George Gallagher, John Gallet, John Gilvey, Michael Godfrey, Charles Manson, Nicholas	RESIDENCE. South Bend, Ind. South Bend, Ind. South Bend, Ind. New Orleans, La. Mishawaka, Ind. Indianapolis, Ind. Detroit, Mich. LaSalle, III. La Salle, Ill. St. Louis, Mo. Petersburg, Ind. Glasgow, Mo.	* Peru, Ind, Peru, Ind. Terre Haute, Ind. Lexington, Ky. Lexington, Ky. New Orleans, La. New Orleans, La. Michigan City, Ind. Ador, Mich. Lafayette, Ind. Logansport, Ind. Toledo, Ohio. Laporte, Ind. New Orleans, Ind. Ireland. Avon, Ill. New Orleans, La. Detroit; Mich. Chicago,. Ill.
14
CATALOGUE OP NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
name.	residence.
Healy, Bennis Henrotin, Henry Ivers, William Judge, Michael Kent, George Kent, William Keilmann, Francis Kelly, Thomas Kelly, Henry Kennedy, James King, Henry ^Kline, Peter Lafontaine, Joseph Mallon, Hugh Masterson, Henry Malone, James Mattingly, Robert Mattingly, James Miller, George W. McArdle, Felix McDermott, J. McGuire, George McKernan, David McNealis, Michael Murray, James Murray, Edward Murphy, Edward O’Connor, Denis O’Donnell, Jeremiah Owens,, Hugh Pomouroux, Adolphe	Chicago, Ill. Chicago, Hl, New Orleans, La. Madison, Ind. New Albany, Ind. New Albany, Ind. St. John’s, Ind. Joliet, Hi. New Orleans, La. Placerville, Cal. Bertrand, Mich. Chicago, Ill, Huntington, Ind. • Providence, R. I. Logansport, Ind. La Salle, Ill. St. Augustine, Ill. St. Augustine, Ill. Peru, Ind. Toledo, Ohio. St. Louis, Mo. Indianapolis, Ind. Morri-, Ill. Beloit, Wis. Beloit, Wis. Toledo. Ohio. Monroe, Mich. Detroit, Mich. Niles,, Mich. New Orleans, La.
CATALOG UE OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
15
NAME.	residence.
Piquette, J. H.	Detroit, Mich.
Periolet, Clement	Chicago, Ill. ,
Ryan, James	Ireland.
Rivard, Charles	r Detroit, Mich.
Rivard, Max	Detroit, Mich.
Rivard, Narcisse	Bourbonnais Grove, Ill.
Ryan, Thomas	Chicago, Ill.
Rielly, John	South Bend, Ind.
Riopelle, Claude	Detroit, Mich.
Stapleton, Michael	Mount Clemens, Mich.
Shannon, Patrick	Laporte, Ind.
Schall, Emmett	Chicago, Ill.
Sherman, Napoleon	Plymouth, Ind.
Schaller, Joseph	Chicago, Ill.
Sheridan, Hugh	New Orleans, La.
Sheridan, John	New Orleans, La.
Tully, Thomas	Terre Haute, Ind.
Wells, Boardman	Crown Point, Ind.
White, Timothy	New, Orleans. La.
Walker, John B.	Peoria, Ind.
Wall, Arnold	Toledo. Ohio.
Wall, Valentine	Toledo, Ohio.
Wall, James	Toledo, Ohio.
Vandersgaft, Augustine	Mishawaka, Ind.
Vagnier, Thomas	South Bend, Ind.
Viola, Theogine	Donaldsonville, La.
Viola, Philogine	Donaldsonville, La. t	f
16
CATALOGUE OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
Those who have not seen Notre Dame for some years, will scarcely
recognize the engraving given on the first page. Yet. it is confidently
believed that the internal improvements for facilitating the literary pur-
suits of the student, and for securing his comfort, have kept pace with
the adornment of the grounds and the erection of new buildings,
o	o
The chief recommendation of the Institution is not in the sensible gra-
tification which every new comer and visitor experience when they first
arrive at this 1 wely spot; but in the contentment and happiness which is
generally felt by its inmates. Since ten years many students having com-
pleted their Collegiate course have parsed from the halls of Notre Dame,
young men of various creeds and nations; and to these much sooner than
to flattering newspaper pages the Instituti n would refer inquiries for
information. The Faculty are a-ssured that all their best pupi's love
their Alma Mater too well to misrepresent her character, and certainly
those now dwelling under the same enlarged roof have reason to feel still
more satisfied and happy.