I
CATALOGUE
OF THE
OFFICERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
INDI A. NT A.,
FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR
18 5 5, 185 6.
CHICAGO:
PRINTED AT THE DEMOCRATIC PRESS BOOK AND JOB OFFICE, 45 CLARK STREET.,
1856.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
In the year 1834, the Rev. S. T. Badin, the patriarch of the American
priesthood, while traveling through the northern counties of Indiana,
visited the spot now known by the name of Notre Dame du Lac,* but
then lying unknown and unnoticed in its native forest wildness and
beauty. Struck by its loveliness, or, to speak more correctly, secretly
influenced by that Providence who directs the most apparently unim -
portant events for the accomplishment of its own eternal designs, Father
> Badin resolved at once to secure this grot to the church, as the site of a
future College. This resolution he executed ; in the year 1837 it passed
into the hands of the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Vincennes, and,- after his death,
into those of his successor, Monsigneur de la Hilandiere, who trans-
ferred it to the Rev. Mr. Bach, priest of the Misericorde, under the
•obligation that, within two years, he should have erected, or at least
commenced, a College building, and a Noviciate, upon the site. Mr.
Bach dying soon after, and bis society failing to fulfill the required condi-
tion at the expiration of the period prescribed, Bishop de la Hilandiere
gave the land, under the same stipulations, to the Rev. Father Sorin,
Priest of the Holy Cross, who, with a few lay brothers of the same
society, had eome to America about a year before. In 1842, they first
took possession, and in a few years were enabled, by the blessing of God,
and under the patronage of the blessed Virgin Mary, to erect a large and
* The name of the Institution has insensibly changed from “Notre Dame du Lac”
to the simple one of “Notre Dame,” from the alteration made by the Department at
Washington,-at the time when a post office was granted to the University. Corres-
pondents will -therefore direct their letters to “ Notre Dame, St. Joseph Co., Ind..,”
.without the addition of “ near South 'Bend.”
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
commodious College building, which, having been recently completed
according to the original plan, can well compare, at present, with any
literary institution of the western states. It was incorporated by the
Legislature of Indiana in 1844.
COURSE OF STUDIES.
The Collegiate Course occupies six years, including the preparatory classes.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
FIKST IEAE.
First Session.—Latin Grammar, English Grammar, Geography, Pen-
manship, Arithmetic, Histories Sacras.	■
Second Session.—The same, with Greek Grammar, Histories Graecae,
Latin and Greek Exercises, History of the United States.
second year.
First Session.—Latin, Greek, and English Grammars, Greek and Latin
Exercises, Geography, History of the United States, Penmanship, Arith-
metic, Book-Keeping, and Ancient History. ■
Second Session.—Greek, Latin, and English Grammars, Greek and
Latin exercises, Cornelius Nepos, Ovid’s Metamorphoses, TEsop’s Fables in
Greek, Writing, Arithmetic, Book-Keeping, Mythology, Modern History.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
FIRST VEAR.-HUMANITIES,
First Session.—Caesar or Sallust, Virgil (Eclogues and Georgies),
Lucian’s Dialogues, Prosody of Greek and Latin Grammar analyzed,
Rules for the Formation of Style, Exercises in the three languages,
Algebra, and Geometry.
Second Session.—Cicero, Virgil’s TEneid, Xenophen’s Cyropedia,
Algebra and Geometry continued.
SECOND TE AR. -P 8 E TR Y.
First Session—Livy, Virgil’s JEneid, and Horace’s Art of Poetry,
explained and committed to memory, Homer’s. Iliad (first four books),
Trigonometry, Theoretical and Practical Surveying.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
5
Second Session.—Cicero’s Orations, Odes of Horace, Homer’s Iliad,
Mensuration and Analytical Geometry, Compositions in Latin and English;
Descriptions, Letters and Narratives, written after models; Analysis of
approved specimens in Prose and Poetry.
First Session.—Tacitus, Demosthenes, the remaining books of Homer,
Precepts of Rhetoric (Quintilian’s Institutions), Study of Ancient and
Modern Literature, Composition of Orations in Latin and English, Analysis
of the best Specimens of Eloquence.
Second Session.—The same as first; but more attention is paid to
Specimens of Ancient and Modern Eloquence, Analysis of the same, and
Compositions of longer and more serious Orations, Debates on grave subjects.
rOURTH YEAB.-PHILOS0PHY.
SHy of Logic, Metaphysics, and Ethics, Moral and Natural Philosophy,
Astronomy, and Chemistry, illustrated by lecture and experiments. These
studies are rendered interesting to the student by the manner in which
they are here pursued.
Besides the regular lectures and discussions, free discussions on Philo-
sophy are encouraged. Every celebrated author referred to, and every
system examined.
The study of the French and German languages can be pursued at this
University with unusual facilities, many of the members of the Institution
being natives of France and Germany. Spanish and Italian are also
taught, but, with Music and Drawing, all these languages form extra
charges.
Every pupil, on entering the University, is examined by the Prefect of
Studies, and placed in that class to which his attainments and abilities
indicate that he should belong. He is encouraged and incited in every
possible manner to study, and should he make unusual progress, he is not
allowed to be retarded by his classmates, but is promoted to a higher class.
He may proceed regularly through the usual course, or may take a
partial course, to suit the views of his parents or guardians. Those who
desire to fit themselves for the learned professions, can have here the best
facilities under able professors ; and, though the departments of Law and
Medicine are not yet opened, they are included in * the Charter of the
University, and it is hoped that at no very distant period, the young
6
UNIVERSITY OF NO-TRE DAME.
graduates of Notre Dame will be enabled to make their professional, aS-
well as their classical course, at their Alma Mater.
A candidate for the degree of A. B. must have pursued the usual clas-
sical course, and have undergone an examination in Moral and Natural'
Philosophy and Chemistry; and if he can give satisfactory proof of his
having pursued the study of Philosophy and Literature for two years
after leaving College, or should he be admitted to any of the learned
professions, he may receive the degree of Master of Arts.
There are in the- College various Societies of Students, formed for
different objects. The St. Aloysius, a Literary Society, St. Ccecilias, a"
Musical Association, the Confraternity of the Nocturnal Adoration, and
the Arch-Confraternity. There is also a military company composed of
the larger students, who have regular parades, the arms and accoutrements-
being furnished by the State.
The Institution possesses an ample and valuable library; a complete set
of Chemical and Philosophical apparatus; and a rare collection of plants,
comprising over four thousand specimens, collected during fifty years, by
the learned Thomas Cauvin, Ex-President of the Scientific Congress of
Europe.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to pre-
serve the most perfect order and regularity. The morals and general
deportment of pupils are assiduously watched over, and their comfort and
personal habits receive the same attention as if they were in the bosom of
their own families. Only conciliatory means of correction are used, but
if the student proves insensible to these, he is promptly dismissed from
the College.
Parents may rest assured that the most zealous care will be taken that-
their children comply regularly with their religious duties, and that no
efforts will be spared in instructing them fully in the principles andl
obligations of their holy religion.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DIME.
7
Per Annum.
Board, Washing and Tuition in the English Course, $125.00.
Latin and Greek, extra, ------	20.00.
Spanish, Italian, French, and German, each, -	- 12.00.
Instrumental Music, -------	20.00.
Bed, etc., -	--	--	--	--	- 5.00.
Entrance Fee, --------	-	5.00.
s
Doctor’s Fees and Medicines, ------ 5.00.
Payments to be made half-yearly, in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., furnished at the usual prices.
Clothes, Linen, etc., are also furnished by the College, at current prices,
but an equivalent sum must be deposited in the hands of the Treasurer.
No boarder will be received for a shorter period than five months.
Each pupil must be provided with six shirts, six pair of stockings, six
pocket handkerchiefs, six towels, a knife and fork, teaspoon, and table;
a hat and cap, two suits of clothes, an overcoat, a pair of shoes and a ■
pair of' boots for the winter; two suits of clothes, and two pair of shoes
for the summer.
Pocket money is not allowed except when placed in the hands of the
Treasurer, and subject to his discretionary application.
When parents wish to have their children sent home, they must give
timely notice, settle all accounts, and supply means to defray all traveling
expenses. No deduction is made on accounts, unless in case of sickness
or dismissal.	-	.
At the termination of the Winter Term, an Examination is held, in
presence of all the Faculty. The principal and public Examination, and
the Annual Commencement, take place in the last week of June. The
First Session commences on the first Tuesday in September.
N. B.—There is an additional charge of $20 for board and washing
during the vacation.
The two wings recently added to the main building' contain each five
rooms, 66 / 40 feet, well ventilated, and capable of affording accommo-
dation to three hundred students.
8
'UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
A large brick building has also been erected in the rear of the College
for the washing, keeping, etc., of the linens and clothes of the Institution.
Over the Lakes are to be seen two picturesque Noviciates of the Priests
(St. Aloysius), and of the Brothers (St. Joseph’s).
Among the peculiar and unusual advantages which Notre Dame pre-
sents, as a place of Education, may be noticed,
1	.—Its Retired Location.—At a time and in a country where serious
and solid studies are rare, where dissipations of every kind are thrown in
the way of the young student, where visitors often interrupt the course of
the scholar, and where morals are but slightly watched over, it seems that
every parent who desires to secure to his son an opportunity of spending
the few years of his education usefully and profitably, and passing safely
the dangerous season of early youth, removed, from all the temptations of
our large cities, should readily comprehend the advantage of placing him
in such an Institution as Notre Dame. Here, the young student is under
the most watchful and paternal care—here he can apply himself, undis-
turbed, to his studies, under competent professors—and, on moderate
terms, he may acquire a solid knowledge of everything to which he njay
wish to devote his attention; here, also, his young mind breathes an
atmosphere of piety, whose influences will hover around him throughout
his life.
2	.—Its Northern and Healthy Site.—This is a point especially
worthy the consideration of Southerners—the change of air and location
having a natural tendency to produce the most salutary effects on the
constitutions of the natives of the Southern States.
3	.—The Extensive Grounds of the Institution.—If students are
here deprived of hurtful pleasures and dissipations, they are amply com-
pensated by those delightful and innocent amusements which the nature
of the locality so abundantly provides. The extensive forests surrounding
the College give the best opportunities to those who are fond of hunting;
whilst the beautiful Lakes, upon whose banks the University stands, afford
choice fishing grounds in summer, and almost uninterrupted skating
during winter.
4	.—Care in Sickness.—Students, when ill, have not to remain in the
College rooms, but are transferred to the airy and pleasant apartments of
the Infirmary, where they are attended by the visiting physician, and
nursed with devoted care by experienced sisters, who never suffer them to
be alone, but strive to supply the place of their absent mothers.
A fact may also be mentioned, which cannot fail to present a great
inducement to parents who have both sons and daughters, whom they
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. '
3
wish to place at school: the near vicinity, and the intimate relations
existing between the University at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s
Academy, one mile west of the College—both under charge of the same
Association—young brothers and sisters placed at these Institutions may
correspond freely, and see each other frequently. It is also very conve-
nient for parents residing at a distance, who can thus both visit their
children at the same time, and have them together with themselves again.*
THE MANUAL LABOR SCHOOL. •
In this Department, conducted by the “ Brothers of St. Joseph,” boys
are taught several useful Trades, and receive, at the same time, a good,
common English education. They are constantly under the vigilant and
paternal care of the Brothers. Their moral and religious training are the
special objects of an association of men who devote their lives and energies
to the noble task of preparing the children of the poor to become good
Christians and useful members of society. '
The number of Apprentices in this Institution at present is forty-five.
The conditions for admission are—
1st. Each applicant must have attained the age of twelve years, and
shall remain until he is twenty-one.
2d. He must pay a Fee of Fifty Dollars on entering, which sum is
refunded in clothing at the expiration of his term.
3d. He must be provided with suitable clothing for the first year.
* St. Mary’s Academy, formerly located at Bertrand, Michigan, has been recently
removed to the vicinity of the University, about one mile west. It is beautifully
located on the banks of the river St. Joseph, and is everything that could be desired
as a locality for a Female Academy. It is under the charge of the “ Sisters of tile
Holy Cross.” All the branches taught in the best Female Institutions in the country
are taught here. The buildings are extensive, and additions and improvements are
daily progressing. For further particulars concerning this Institution and its various
Departments, the public are referred to the Catalogue of the “Sisters of the Holy
Cross,” of 1855-6.
AN3 OTHER
C O Xi X E G- ZE OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. SORIN, S. S. C., President. 9
Rev. N. H. GILLESPIE, S. S. 0., Vice President,
and Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. R. A. SHORTIS, S. S. C., Prefect of Studies,
General Secretary, and Professor of Elocution and Belles Lettres,
Rev. A. GRANGER, S. S. C.,
Professor of Logic, Metaphysics, and Ethics.
MAX GIRAC, LL. D.,
Professor of Greek, Latin, French, and Vocal Musis.
Mr. D. J.. MORIARTY,
Professor of Mathematics and English.
Mr. P. RYAN, .
Professor of Natural Philosophy, Chemistry, and Botany.
Mr. JAS. BYRNE,
Professor of Book-Keeping and English.
BZ. BASIL, J.f-*
Professor of German and Instrumental Music.
Mr. J. ACKERMAN,
Professor of Linear and Academic Drawing and Painting.
t *
.	B? AMEDEUS, J., : f ' c
Treasurer, Secretary, and Professor of Penmanship.
B.	BENEDICT, J., ) * ggigtant Prefects.
B.	ADOLPHUS, j^.^8818™1^66^
CATALOGUE ON STUDENTS
ENTERED FROM SEPTEMBER, 1855, TO JANUARY, 1856.
-j Bonfield, Michael	Chicago,	Illinois.
Bunbury, Henry	Kalamazoo,	Michigan.
5 Bunbury, John	Kalamazoo,	Michigan.
■A Burt, John	Fort Wayne,	Indiana.
Brelsford, Cassius	Plymouth,	Indiana.
Beltz, Francis	Joliet,	Illinois.
Ball, Matthew	Lafayette,	Indiana.
Ball, Thomas	Lafayette,	Indiana.
Carmody, Patrick	New Orleans.,	Louisiana.
Conway, Patrick	New Orleans,	Louisiana.
'■ Collins, Thomas	Putnam,	Indiana.
Christie, James	Erie,	Pennsylvania.
r Creamer, Philip	Florissant,	Missouri.
Carrol, John	Toledo,	Ohio.
Cottin, Francis	St. J oseph Co,	Indiana.
Cotti n, Joseph	St. Joseph Co.,	Indiana.
“■ Clarke, John	St. Joseph Co.,	Indiana.
Cass, William	Huntington,	Indiana.
" Dillon, Michael	Joliet,	Illinois.
Dougherty, Patrick	Watertown,	New York.
Dermody, Philip	Petersburgh,’	Indiana.
— Duggan, Walter	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
Dnike, James	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Doyle, George	Michigan City,	Indiana.
Doyle, John	Michigan City,	Indiana.
-'Dennis, William	Watertown,	Wisconson.
English, James	- Lagro,	Indiana.
English, Louis	Lagro,	Indiana.
English, Thomas	Glasgow,	Missouri.
14
UNIVERSITY OF KOTRE DAME.
Elliott, Walter	Detroit,	Michigan.
Foley, Jeremiah	Toledo,	Ohio.
Foley, Cornelius	Toledo,	Ohio.
Foley, Peter	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
Fritz, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
Flanagan, James	•Ottawa,	Illinois.
Fitzpatrick, Michael	Lockport,	Illinois.
Forrester, Peter	Laporte,	Indiana.
Oallett, John	Avon,	Illinois.
Gallaher, Owen	Marion,	Ohio.
■ Geary, Daniel	Fort Wayne,	Indiana.
Gr^e, Thomae	Plaquemine,	Louisiana.
■Gorman, James	Glocester,	New York.
Goldsbury, Samuel	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
•Goldsbury, William	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Goggin, William	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
Henrotin, Henry	Chicago,	Illinois.
—Heiss, Michael	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
Healy, Robert	Chicago,	Illinois.
- Huck, Charles	Chicago,	Illinois.
Hansen, Nicholas	Chicago,	Illinois.
— Hogan, Patrick	Lowell,	Massachusetts.
Johnson, James	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
Johnson, Charles	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
Johnson, Edward	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
Judge, James	Madison,	Indiana.
Judge, Michael	Madison,	Indiana.
Kelly, Thomas	Joliet,	Illinois.
--Kelly, Joseph	Joliet,	Illinois.
-Kelly, Patrick	Marshal,	Michigan.
- Keep, Barton	Logansport,	Indiana.
r- Kelly, James	'Terre Haute,	Indiana.
Kennedy, James	Placerville,	California.
- Keefe, James	St. Joseph Co.,	Indiana.
- Kent, Francis	Athens,	Illinois.
Lonergan, John	Batavia,	Illinois.
Lafontaine, Joseph	Huntington,	Illinois.
Mattingly, James	St. Augustine,	Illinois.
McFaul, Ambrose	St. Louis,	Missouri,.
- - Mulligan, Patrick	•Bertrand, •	Michigan.
■ McEvoy, John	Jersey City,	New Jersey.
UNIVERSITY OF -NOTRE DAME.
15
McKernan, David	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
' Miller, Thomas	Peru,	Indiana.
—Miller, James	Laporte,	Indiana.
Murray, James	Beloit,	Wisconsin.
Murray, Edward	Beloit,	Wisconsin.
—Moriarty, Murtough	Ottawa,	Illinois.
—Metzger, John	‘St. Joseph Co.,	Indiana.
McGrath, 'Thomas	Morris,	Illinois.
Myers, Jacob	St. Joseph Co.,	Indiana.
—Norton, Warren	Detroit,	Michigan.
" O’Callahan, Eugene	Toledo,	Ohio.
Owens, Hugh	St. Joseph Co.,	Indiana.
Periol at, Clement	Chicago,	Illinois.
Quinlan, Robert	Richmond,	Virginia.
Ryan, Thomas	-Lockport,	Illinois.
■■ Ryan, William	Manchester,	Michigan.
“ Riordan, Patrick	Attica,	Indiana.
Riopelle, Claude	Detroit,	Michigan.
Ruger, John	Lafayette,	Indiana.^
Stapleton, Michael	Mt. Clemens,	Michigan.
Strauset, Henry	Elgin,	Illinois.
Steigers, Solomon	St. Louis,	. Missouri.
Sullivan, James	Toledo,	Ohio.
- Schuler, Charles	Cleveland,	Ohio.
- Spellman, James	Lockport,	Illinois.
- Smith, James	South Bend,	Indiana.
Schall, Emet	— Naperville,	Illinois.
— Spink, George	L’Erable,	Illinois.
• Spink, Eugene	L’Erable,	Illinois.
White, Timothy	New Orleans,	Louisiana.
■ White, John	Dover,	Wisconsin.
- Wall, John	South Bend,	Indiana.
—Weisenburger, Francis	Defiance,	Ohio.
“ Young, John	Great Falls,	New York.
t Yeake, Nicholas	Naperville,	Illinois.’
Yuricella, Anthony	Centralia,	Illinois.
—Aspinwall, Joseph	Goshen,	Indiana.
" Barron, Benjamin	Goshen,	Indiana.
• Belladine, J.	St. Joseph Co^	Indiana.
- Bulger, Patrick	Waukegan,	Illinois.
~ ■ Bradv, James	Elkhart,	Indiana.
16
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAMS.
Brackenridge, Arthur ■O •	Fort Wayne,	Indiana.
Corby, Michael	Detroit,	Michigan.
Downey, Joseph	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania.
Dwyer, Henry	Watertown,	Illinois.
Dolev, Michael	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Earrell, James	Columbus,	Indiana.
Fynn, George	Dubuque,	Iowa.
Frazer, James	Lexington,	Kentucky.
Ivers, William A.	Hew Orleans,	Louisiana.
Mahon, James	Columbus,	Indiana.
Maginnis, William A.	St. Louis,	Missouri.
Lutze, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
Lutze, Henry	Chicago,	Illinois.
Sabini, David	Chicago,	Illinois.
Sabini, Joseph	Chicago,	‘ Illinois.
Penshaw, Henry	St. Joseph,	Indiana.
Shunnesy, James	Chicago,	Illinois.
