CATALOG7S
©F THE
%
OFFICERS AND STUDENTS
©F THE
Hnfers^ .of Bota §ame,
X 330" S> I -a. 3XT ,
FOB THE ACADEMIC YEAR
183 *7’“ B

HOTRE DAME, IB.
PRINTED -AT THE REGISTER OFFICE, SOUTH BEND, IND
•18o-7.
Wniterritg of gw.
In ths year 1834, the Rev. S. T. Badin, the patriarch of the American
priesthood, while traveling through the Northern Counties of Indiana, visi-
ted the spot now known by the name of Notre Dame du Lag,* but then
lying unknown and unnoticed in its native forest wildness and beauty.—
Struck by its loveliness, or, to speak more correctly, secretly influenced by
that Providence which directs the most apparently unimportant events for the
accomplishment of its own eternal designs, Father Badin resolved at once
to secure this spot to the church, as the site of a future College. Tliis res-
olution he executed; in the year 1837 it passed into the hands of the Rt.
Rev. Bishop of Vincennes, and, after his death, into those of his successor,
Monsigneur de la Hilandiere, who transferred it to the Rev. Mr. Baciu
priest of the Misoricorde, under the obligation that within two years, he
should have erected, or at least commenced, a College building and a No-
viciate upon the site. Mr. Bach dying soon after, and his Sciety failing
to fulfil the required condition at the expition of the period prescribed,
Bisop de la Hilandiere gave the land, under the same stipulations, to
the Rev. Father Sorin, Priest of the Holy Cross, who, with a few lay
brothers of the same Society, had come to America about a year before.
In 1842 they first took possession, and in a few years were enabled, by the
blessing of God, and under the patronage of the blessed Virgn Marv, to
erect a large and commodious College building, which having been recent-
ly completed according to the original plan, can well compare, at present,
with any literary institution of the. Western States Jt was incorporated by
the Legislature of Indiana in 1844.
* The name of the Institution has insensibly changed from GN:>TRE Dami: T.r
Lac ” to the simple one of “Notre Dame,” from the alteration made by the De
partment at Washington, at the time when a post office was granted to the Univ er
sity. Correspondents will therefore direct their letters to “Notre Dame. St.
•seph Co., Ind.,” without the addition of “near South Ben:/'
COURSE OF STUDIES.
The Collegiate course occupies six years, including the Preparatory Classes,

❖
Jirst Jear.
First Session.—Latin Grammar, English Grammar, Geography, Pen-
manship, Arithmetic, Historise Same.
Second Session.—The same, with Greek Grammar, Historic Gnecax
Latin and Greek Exercises, History of the United States.
' Straub |rar.
First Session.—Latin, Greek and. English Grammars, Greek and Latin
Exercises, Geography, History of the United States, Penmanship, Arith-
metic, Book-Keeping, and Ancient History.
Second Session.-—Greek, Latin, and English Grammars, Greek and
Latin Exercises, Cornelius Kepos, Ovid’s Metamorphoses, JEsop’s Fahies in
Greek, Writing, Arithmetic, Book-Keeping, Mythology, Modem History.

J'irsi Urar. — aniiUs.
First Session.—Ciesar or Sallust, Virgil (Eclogues and Georgies,) Lu-
cian’s Dialogues, Prosody of Greek and Latin Grammar analyzed, Rules -
fortlie Formation of Style, Exercises in the three languages, Algebra and
Geometry.
Second Session.—Cicero, Virgil’s PEneid, Xenophen’s Cyropedia, Al-
gebra and Geometry continued.
S staub ^tar. — ® a str 5 .
First Session.—Livy, Virgil’s ^Eneid, and Horace’s Art of Poetry, ex-
plained and committed to memory, Homer’s Iliad (first four books.) Trig-
onometry, Theoretical and Practical Surveying.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	5
Second Session.—Cicero’s Orations, Odes of Horace, Homer’s Iliad,
Mensuration and Analytical Geometry, Compositions in Latin and English;
Descriptions, Letters and Narratives, written after models; Analysis of ap-
proved specimens in Poetry and Prose.
*	J
(£ Ip r b Dear.— Uljeioric.
First Session.—Tacitus, Demosthenes, the remaining books of Homer,
Precepts of Rhetoric (Quintilian’s Institutions.) Study of Ancient and Mod-
ern Literature, Composition of Orations in Latin and English, Analysis of
the best Specimens of Eloquence.
Second Session.—The same as first; but more attention is paid to Spec-
imens of Ancient and Modern Eloquence, Analysis of the same, and Com-
positions of longer and more serious Orations, Debates on grave subjects.
4FiomrtI) Usar.— ^IplosopblP
Study of Logic, Metaphysics, Moral and Natural Philosophy, Astronomy
and Chemistry, illustrated by lectures and experiments. These studies are
rendered interesting to the student by the manner in which they are here
pursued.
Besides the regular Lectures and Discussions, free discussions on Philoso-
phy are encouraged. Every celebrated author referred to, and every system
examined.
The study of the French and German languages can be pursued at Notre
Dame with unusual facilities, many of the members of the Institution being
natives of France and Germany. Spanish and Italian are also taught, but,
with Music and Drawing, all these languages form extra charges.
Every pupil on entering the University, is examined by the Prefect of
Studies, and placed in that class to which his attainments and abilities indi-
cate that he should belong. He is encouraged'and incited in every possible
manntU’ to study, and should he make unusual progress, he is not allowed
to bo retarded by his classmates, but is promoted to a higher class. He
may proceed regularly through the usual course, or may take a partial
course, to suit the views of his parents or guardians. Those who desire to
fit themselves for the learned professions, can have here the best facilities
under able professors; and, though the departments of Law and Medicine
are not yet opened, they are included in the Charter of the University, and
it is hoped that at no very distant period, the young graduates'of Notre
Dame will be enabled to ‘make their professional, as well as their classical
course, at their Alma Mater.
A candidate for the degree of A. B. must have pursued the usual classic-
al course, and have undergone an examination in Moral and Natural Philos-
phy and Chemistry; and if he can give/satisfactory proof of his having
pursued the study of Philosophy and Literature for two years after leaving
College, or should he be admitted to any of the learned professions, he may
receive the degree of Master of Arts.
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
There are in the College various Societies of Students, formed for differ-
ent objects. The St. Aloysius’, a Literary Society; St Csecila’s, a Musical
Association; the Confraternity of the Nocturnal Adoration, and the Arch
Confraternity. There is also a Military Company composed of the larger
students, who have regular parades, the arms and accoutrements being fur-
nished by the State.
The Institution possesses an ample and valuable Library; a complete set
of Chemical and Philosophical Apparatus; and a rare collection of plants,
comprising over four thousand specimens, collected during fifty years, by the
learned Thos. Cauvix, Ex-President of the Scientific Congress of Europe.
J	O	A
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to preserve
the most perfect order and regularity. The morals and general deportment
of }up’ls ate assiducusly watched over, and their comfort and personal habits
receive the same attention as if they were in the bosom of their own fami-
lies. Only conciliatory means of correction are used, but if the student
proves insensible to these, he is promptly dismissed from the College.
Parents mav rest assured that the most zealous care will be taken that
their children comply regularly -with their religious duties, and that no efforts
will be spared in instructing them fully in the principles and obligations of
their holy religion.
tshais.
Board, Washing and Tuition in the English Course,
Latin and Greek, extra, -	-	-	-	-
Spanish, Italian, French, and German, each, -
Instrumental Music, ------
Bed, etc. --------
Entrance Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	-
Doctor’s Fees and Medicines, -	-	-	-
Phr Annum.
-	$125.00
-	20.00
-	12.00
-	20.00
-	5.00
-	5.00
-	5.00
Payments to be made half-yearly, in advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., furnished at the usual prices.
Clothes, Linen, etc., are also furnished by the College, at current prices,
but an equivalent sum must be deposited in the hands of the Treasurer.
No boarder will be received for a shorter period than five months.
Each pupil must be provided with six shirts, six pair of stockings, six
pocket handkerchiefs, six towels, a knife and fork, tea and tablespoon ; a hat
and cap, two suits of clothes, an overcoat, a pair of shoes and a pair of boots
for the winter; two suits of clothes, and two pair of shoes for the summer.
Pocket money is not allowed except when placed in the hands of the
Treasurer, and subject to his discretionary application.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
7
'When parents wish to have their children sent home, they must give
"timely notice, settle all accounts, and supply means to defray -all traveling
•expenses. No deduction is made on accounts, unless in case of sickness or
dismissal.
At the termination of the Winter Term, an Examination is held, in pres-
ence of all the Faculty. The principal and public Examination, and the
Annual Commencement, take place in the last week of June. The First
‘Session commences on the first Tuesday in September.
N. B.—There is an additional charge of $20 for Board and Washing
‘during the Vacation.
A large brick building has been erected in the rear of the College for the
•washing, keeping, etc., of the linen and clothes of the Institution. Over
the Lakes are to be seen two picturesque Noviciates: of the Priests, (Sr-
Aloysius,) and of the Brothers, (St. Joseph’s.)
Among the peculiar and unusual advantages which Notre Dame pre-
■sents, as a place of Education, may be noticed,
1	.—Its Retired Location.—At a time and in a country where serious
:and solid studies are rare, where dissipations of every kind are thrown in
the way of the young student, Where visitors often interrupt the course of
the scholar, and where morals are but slightly watched over, it seems thar
every parent Who desires to secure to his son an opportunity of spending
the few years of his education usefully and profitably, and passing safely the
•dangerous season of early youth, removed from all the temptations of our
large cities, should readily comprehend the advantage of placing him in
such an Institution as Notre Dame. Here, the young student is under the
most watchful and paternal care—here he can apply himself, undisturbed,
to his studies, under competent professors—and, on moderate terms, he may’
..acquire a solid knowledge of everything to which he may wish to devote his
attention—here, also, his young mind breathes an atmesphere of piet},
the influences of which will hover around him throughout his life.
2	.—Its Northern and Healthy Site.—This is a point especially wor-
thy the consideration of Southerners—the change of air and location having
ua natural tendency to produce the most salutary effects on the constitutions
•of the natives of the Southern States.
3	.—The Extensive Grounds oe the Institution.—If students are
here deprived of hurtful pleasures and dissipations, they are amply remune-
vated by those delightful and innocent amusements which the nature of the
locality so abundantly provides. The extensive forests surrounding the Col-
lege give the best opportunities to those'who'are fond of hunting1; whilst the
beautiful Lakes, upon whose banks1 the University stands, afford choice fish-
ing grounds in summer, and' almost uninterrupted skating during winter.
4	.—Care in Sickness-.—Students, when ill, have not to'remain in the
College rooms, but are transferred 'to the airy and pleasant apartments of
the Infirmary, where they are attended by the visiting physician, and
nursed with devoted care by experienced sisters, who never stiffer them th
alone, but strive to supply the.plsfce of their* absent mothers.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
A fact may also be mentioned, which cannot fail to present a great in-
ducement to parents who have both sons and daughters, whom they wish to1
place at school: by the near vicinity, and the intimate relations existing be-
tween the University at Notre Dame and St. Mary’s Academy, one mile west
of the College—both under charge of the same Association—young broth-
and sisters placed at these Institutions may correspond freely, and see
each other frequently. It is also very convenient for parents residing at a.
distance, who can thus visit both their children at the same- time,, and have
them together-with themselves again.*
In this Department, conducted by the “Brothers of St. Joseph,” boys are
taught several useful Trades, and receive, at the same time, a good, common
English education. They are constantly under the vigilant and paternal
(‘.are of the Brothers. Their moral and religious training are the special
objects of an association of men who devote their lives and energies to the
noble task of preparing the children of the poor to become good Christians,
and useful members of society.
The number of Apprentices in this Institution at present is forty-five.
The conditions for admission are—
1st. Each applicant must have attained the age of twelve years, and shall
remain until he is twenty-one.
2d. He must pay a Eee of Fifty Dollars on entering, which sum is refun-
ded in clothing at the expiration of his term.
3d. He must be provided with suitable clothing for the first year.
*St.. Mary’s Academy, formerly located at Bertrand, Michigan, has been re-
cently removed to the vicinity of the University, about one mile west. It is beau-
tifully located on the banks of the river St. Joseph, and is everything that could be
desired as a locality for a Female Academy. It is under the charge of the “Sisters,
of the Holy Cross.” All the branches taught in the best Female Institutions ia
the country are taught here. The buildings are extensive, and additions and im-
provements are daily progressing. For further particulars concerning this Insti-
tution and its various Departments, the public are referred to the Catalogue of the-
'‘-Sisters pf the Holy Cross,” of 1856-7,.
CONCLUDING REMARKS.
Before closing this Catalogue it may not be amiss to offer a few remarks
to our friends in general.
This last scholastic year has been marked with a success unprecedented
in the annals of our Institution here. The number of our pupils, both here
and at St. Mary’s Academy, exceeded by one-third that of any former year;
500 persons being the average number of inmates in both Houses during
the year. The Professors and Students have been blessed with the contin-
ual enjoyment of excellent health.
However great may have been, for the past fifteen years, the improve- /
ments successively made here, it would be wrong to suppose that we are
going to rest;for we never felt more sensibly the necessity of enlarging and
building again. We have expended here yearly since our first commence-
ment from Fifteen to Twenty Thousand Dollars, and for ten years to come
we feel ourselves under the necessity of increasing, rather than diminishing,
our disbursements. Since a few years, particularly, we have been made
sensible that Providence has given us, on these delightful banks of the St.
Joseph, a situation which we would not exchange for any other in the sur-
rounding country, and we are more than ever anxious to improve it to the
fullest extent of our power. Parents and our friends at large may feel well
assured that no pains or sacrifices shall be avoided to make these Institu-
tions worthy of their entire confidence and of a continuance of that patron-
age with which they have hitherto so liberally favored us.
Although many of our friends are pleased to judge favorably of our In-
stitutions by the interest which they seem to take in our Annual Exhibitions
(for the improvement of which we see with pleasure some steps are being
taken:)—Yet it is not precisely in this we found our hopes of having really
given satisfaction, and discharged our duties, but in the solid acquirements
which, we trust, most of our pupils carry home with them at the close of
their studies. This has been the case this year particularly, if we know, at
all, our students.
For those who intend visiting- Notre Dame and St. Mary’s, we would
remark that they -will find at the Depot on every arrival of the trains, not
<mly several carriages, &c., but also a regular line of Omnibuses from the
M. S. & N. I. R. R. Depot to Notre Dame and St. Mary’s. It will also be
gratifying to visitors to know that on their arrival at South Bend, they will
find there a most excellent Hotel, where they can be amply accommodated,
and where they may enjoy all the comforts of a new, spacious, and delight-
fully ventilated building, elegantly furnished, and presided over by one of'
the most agreeable and gentlemanly Landlords in the West.
N. B.—The friends of the Institution will hear with no ordinary pleasure
that the services of Prof. Gardner Jonejs, L. L. D., have just been secured
for the next scholastic year.
AND OTHER	*
OOIjLiEOE O US’ IO EH JS-
o
----------------------------------
Very Rev. E. SORIN, S. S. C., President.
Rev. N. H. GILLESPIE, S. S. C., Vice President,
and Director of Studies.
Rev. A. GRANGER, S. S. C.,	.
Professor of Logic, Metaphysics, and Ethics.'.
Rev. F. LAWLER,
Prefect of Discipline and Professor of Latin. •
Mr. P. DILLON. S. S. 0.,
Procurator.	-
Mr. J. DILLON, S. S. 0.,
Professor of the First English Course and Geometry.	'
Mr. T. FLANAGAN, S. S. C.,
Professor of the Second English Course and Arithmetic,
o
Mr. A. B. DOWNING, LL. D.,
Professor of Languages.
Mr. MAX GIRAC, L. L. D.,
Professor of Languages and Music.
Mr. D. J. MORIARTY,
Professor of Mathematics,
j
* Mr. AV. SHRJEDER,
Professor of French and German.
Mr. J. ACKERMAN,
Professor of Drawing and Painting.
Mr. J. BYRNE,
Professor of English and Penmanship.
Bro. BASIL, J., Professor of Music.
Bro. BERNARDINE, J.,
‘ Professor of the Third English Course and Book-Keeping.
Bro. BERNARD, J., Tutor of Preparatory Department.
Bro. AMEDEUS, J., Treasurer.
Mr. G. A. GOLDSBERRY, S. S. C.) . . . ,	.
Bko. BENOIT, J.,	’	1 AsSKU‘Ct
N. B.—The Rev. L. Letourneau, S. S. C., and Mr. Denis O’Leary,^
■will be members of the Faculty next year.
0
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS
FOR THE ACADEMIC YEAR 18564.
—Amburg, Louis	Chicago,	Illinois.
Andrews, Jacob	Madison,	Indiana.
—Baldwin, Samuel W.	St. Joseph Co.	Indiana.
Ball, Matthew	Lafayette,	Indiana.
Ban on, Benjamin B.	Goshen,	Indiana.
—Baumgartner, John J.	St. Louis	Missouri.
Bell, Samuel H.	South Bend,	Indiana.
Bigelow, Francis 0.	Lancaster,	Ohio.
Bigelow, James M.	Lancaster,	Ohio.
B'aine, Robeit G.	Elizabeth,	Pennsylvania.
Blood, Martin	Bristol,	Indiana.
"‘■'’Bohan, Michael		Wisconsin,
Bonfield, Michael	Chicago,	Illinois.
Bonfield, Joseph	Chicago,	Illinois.
—Borngesser, Frederick	Joliet,	Illinois.
—Brady, Thomas	Chicopee,	Massachusetts
Breckenridge, Arthur	Fort Wayne,	Indiana.
-Biown, Howard	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Bucksot, Frederick	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Bnehrig, Henry	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Buehriff, William	Indianapolis,	Indiana;
Bryne, Johnv	Chicago,	Illinois.
Bryne, Patrick	Chicago,	Illinois.
Carroll, Philip	Marine,	Illinois.
-Carroll, Thomas	Marine,	Illinois.
-Cass, William	Fort Wayne,	Indiana.
•^Chocklett, H.	South Bend,	Indiana.
Clancey, Silvester	Chicago,	Illinois.
Clark, John	St. Joseph County,	Indiana,
Clifford, Michael	Chicago,	Illinois.
* ~Cliftbrd, William	Chicago,	'Illinois.
-Clifford, Thomas	Chicago,	Illinois.
Collins, G. F. Borgia	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania.
Conlisk, James	Adrian,	Michigan.
Connolly, Michael	Lafayette,	Indiana.
Conway, Patrick,	New Orleans,	Louisiana.
Coquillard, George	Lowell,	Indiana.
Corby, Michael	Detroit,	Michigan.
-Ootterel, Jonathan	South Bend,	Indiana.
Cottin, Francis	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Cottin, Vincent	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Cottm, Joseph	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Courte, John Peter	"”St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
^Damon, Joseph	Bridgeport,	New York.
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
—Davis, Walter L.		
Davlin, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
.Dennis, William	Watertown,	Wisconsin,
Denny, John	Maumee City,	Ohio.
Devine, Thomas	Somonauk,	Illinois.
Dillon, Michael	Joliet,	Illinois.
- Distillerath, Joseph	Leiderl ungze ngen,	Europe.
Dorsey, Francis C. Downing, George M.	- Moro,	Illinois,
Downing, Joseph	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvau'
Drake, James P.	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Drendell, Peter	Napierville,	Illinois.
-Du rm, Peter	New Orleans,	Louisiana.
- Dunn, William	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Edwards, John	Dubuque,	Iowa.
Elliott,- Walter	Detioit,	Michigan.
Emerie, Rosai re	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Fan ell, William	Ada,	Michigan.
Ferrall, James L.	Columbus,	Indiana.
Fetters, Michael	Goshen, Dubuque,	Indiana.
Finn, George,		Iowa.
FitzPatrick, James	Detroit.,	Michigan.
Fitzpatrick, Michael	Lock po it,	Illinois.
Flanagan, James	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Flynn, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
Flynn Thomas	Chicago,	Illinois.
<Foley, James	Toledo,	Ohio.
Foley, Michael Gallagher, Owen	Indianapolis,	I ndiana.
	Marion,	Ohio.
Gallet, Albert	Avon,	Illinois.
Garwood, JoRua	^Rockhill,	Indiana.
Gausepohl, John	Cincinnati,	Ohio.
-Gogan, John	Laporte, Milwaukee,	Indiana.
Gog jin, William		Wisconsin,
Goldsberry, Livingston	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Goldsberry, Samuel	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Goldsberry, William	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Goldsberry, Robert	Wyandotte,	Indiana.
Gorman, James	Gloucester,	New York;
——Healy, Chailes	Chicago,	Illinois.
Healy, Robert	Chicago,	Illinois.
^-Heffernan, James	St. Louis,	Missouri.
Hoey, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
Hoey, Peter Hogan, Dennis	Chicago,-	Illinois. Wiscon.Gn,
-“-Hogan, Patrick	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Jackson, Samuel	Goshen,	Indiana.
^Japos, Henry	Detroit,	Michigan.
Jenuibgs, James	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME

Jennings, Samuel	St. Joseph County,	Indiana-
John Joyce,	Mount Sterling,	Kentucky.
Keefe, Jame.s	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
""Keefe. John	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Kelly, James	Terre Haute,	Indiana.
Kennedy, James	—Spanish Flat,	California,
Killean, James	—Chicago,	Illinois.
Laflin, Joshua	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
--Largan, John	Dayton,	Ohio.
’■■Legris, Adolphe	Bourbonnais Grove,	Illinois.
Lem»ontaine, Edward	South Bend,	Indiana.
Lilly, Edward	Notre Dame,	Indiana.
Lonergan, John	Batavia,	Illinois.
Lonergan, Thomas	Lockport,	Illinois.
Lutzy, Henry	Chicago,	Illinois.
Lutay, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
Lynch, Timothy	Chicago,	Illinois.
Mahon, James	Columbus,	Indiana.
-"Martinf Charles E.	Blandesvihe,	Illinois.
May, Alvin D.	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
May, David B-.	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
May, James H.	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
McAnnally, Edward	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania..
McBride, John	—Woodville,	Ohio’.
McCabe,		
^McDonald, Alexander	Crown Point,	Indiana.
Maginnis, William	St. Louis,	Missouri.
McGrath, Thomas	Morris,	Illinois.
-'McInerney,. Michael	Yellow Springs,	Ohio.
McLandon, James	-KLowell,	Indianar
McNeahs, Michael	Morris,	Illinois.
McNulty, Florence	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania.
McNulty, John	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania,
Meikelj Henry	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Milling, Andrew	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Metzger, Ferdinand	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Metzger, John	St. Joseph County,.	Indiana.
Miller, George	Peru,	Indiana.
K\MiHer, Thomas	Peru,	Indiana.
Moriarty, Murtough	Ottowa,	Illinois.
—Moynahan, Humphrey	Chicago,	Illinois.
Mulligan, Patrick	Bertrand,	Michigan-
Murray, Edward	Beloit,	Wisconsin#
Murray, James	Beloit,	Wisconsin.
—Naltner, Martin	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
-"Neumaier, John	Peoiia,	Illinois.
Nelson, A. Degraff,	Fort Wayne,	Indiana.
Nelson, William	Fort Wayne,	Indiana,
O’Brien, Thomas	Chicago,	Illinois^
16
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
O’Brien, John	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
O’Donnell, Jeremiah	Detroit,	Michigan.
O’Donnell, John	Detroit,	Michigan.
Olvaney, John	Michigan City,	Indiana.
O’Shaughnessy, James	Chicago,	Illinois.
Owens, Hugh	-	St Joseph County,	Indiana.
Phelan, Thomas	Brooklyn,	New York.
Phelan, William	Brooklyn,	New York.
-Portrait, John	Monroeville,	Ohio.
Quigley, Henry	Dubuque,	Iowa.
Quinlan, Robert	Richmond,	Virginia.
Reilly, Andrew	Dubuque,	Iowa.
Riopelle, Claude	Detroit,	Michigan.
Riordan, Patrick W*	Chicago,	Illinois.
Rivard Narcisse	Bourbonnais Grove,	Illinois,
Rohrer, John	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Ruan, James	Oak Creek,	Wisconsin.
Rushaupt, William	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Ryan, Thomas Sobini, David	Lockport,	Illinois.
	Chicago,	Illinois,
Sobini, Josshua	Chicago,	Illinois.
Saunier, Clement	Versailles,	Ohio.
Scanlan, James	Chicago,	Illinois.
Schwalm, Peter	Joliet,	Illinois.
Schwartz, Anthony	Napierville,	Illinois.
Shealy, Robert	Delphi,	Indiana,
Sheldon, Russell	Chicago,	Illinois.
Smith, Alexander	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Snider Louis	Hamilton,	Ohio.
Spellman, James,	Lockport,	Illinois.
Stevens, Alanson	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Tallent, Thomas	Nauvoo,	Illinois.
Tally, Alfred	Lowell,	Indiana,
Taylor, James	New Trier,	Illinois.
Taylor,	Chicago,	Illinois.
-T aylor, Turner, Thomas E. Vickers, Jerome	Chicago,	Illinois.
	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Wadleigh, John	Goshen,	Indiana-,
Walsh, Peter	Chicago,	Illinois.
Walsh, Thomas	Chicago,	Illinois.
Walsh, William	Chicago,	Illinois.
Waldron, Edward	Painesville,	Ohio.
Watson, James	New Bradford,	Indiana-.
Wells, William D.	-'••’Madison,	Wisconsin,
White, Timothy	Now Orleans,	Louisiana.
Wittrock, John	Cincinnati,	Ohio.
Zaenhly, Samuel	St. Joseph Bounty,	Indiana.
Zurisseler, Anthony	Centralia,	Illinois,