CATALOGUE
OF THE
OFFICERS AND STUDENTS
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAJIE,
10
FIRST SESSION OF 1856-57
9
CHICAGO:
DAILY DEMOCRAT PRINT, 45 LA SALLE STREET.
1857.
XaAWH BY I. ACKERMANN, PEOT	XLAEERECHAMENZEL'S LITE OTCmfAH
(CHARTERED, 1844.,)
'	'	I
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
In the year 1834, the Reverend S. T. Badin, the Patriarch of
the American Priesthood, while traveling through the northern
counties of Indiana, visited the spot now known by the name of
Notre Dame du Lac,* but then lying unknown and unnoticedin
its native forest wildness and beauty. Struck by its loveliness,
or, to speak more' correctly, secretly influenced by that Provi-
dence who directs the most apparently unimportant events for
the accomplishment of its own eternal designs, Lather Badin
resolved at once to secure this grot to the church, as the site of
a future College. This resolution he executed; in the year 1837
it passed into the hands of the Rt. Rev. Bishop of Vincennes,
and, after his death, into those of his successor, Monseigneur de
• la Hillandiere, who transferred it to the Rev. Mr. Bach, Priest
of the Misericorde, under the obligation that, within two years,
he should have erected, or at least commenced, a -College build-
ing and a Noviciate, upon the site. Mr. Bach dying soon after,
and his society failing to fulfill the required condition at the
expiration of the period prescribed, Bishop de la Hillandiere
gave the land, under the same stipulations, to the Rev. Lather
Sorin, Priest of the Holy Cross, who, with a few lay brothers of
the same society, had come to America about a year before, hr
1842, they first took possession, and in a few years were enabled
by the blessing of God, and under the patronage of the Blessed
The name of the Institution has insensibly changed from “Notre Dame du
Lao” to the simple one of “ Notre Dame/’ from the alteration made by the De-
partment at Washington, at the time -when a post office was granted to the
University. Correspondents will therefore direct their letters to “ Notre Dame,
St. Joseph Co., Ind.,” without the addition of “near South Bend.”
4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE D^ME.
Virgin Mary, to erect a large’ancl commodious College building,
which having been recently completed according to the original
plan, can well compare, at present, with any literary institution
of the Western States. It was incorporated by the Legislature
of Indiana in 1814.
COURSE OF STUDIES.
Every pupil, on entering the University, is examined by the
Prefect of Studies, and placed in that class to which his attain-
ments and abilities indicate that he should belong. He is
encouraged and incited in every possible manner to study, and
should he make unusual progress, he is not allowed to be retarded
by his classmates, but is promoted to a higher class. He may
proceed regularly through the usual course, or may take & partial
course, to suit the views of his parents or guardians. Those who ’
desire to fit themselves for the learned professions, can have here
the best facilities, under able professors; and, though the depart-
ments of Law and Medicine are not yet opened, they are included
in the Charter of the University, and it is hoped that at no very
.distant period, the young graduates of Notre Dame will be
enabled to make their professional as well as their classical
course at their Alma Mater.
A candidate for the degree of A. B. must have pursued the
usual classical course, and have undergone an examination in
Moral and Natural Philosophy and Chemistry; and if he can
give satisfactory proof of his having pursued the study of Phi-
losophy and Literature for two years after leaving College, or
should he be admitted to any of the learned professions, he may
receive the degree of Master of Arts.
There are in the College, various Societies of Students formed
for different objects. The St. Aloysius, a Literary Society, St.
Cs&cillias, a Musical Association; the Confraternity of the
Nocturnal Adoration, and the Arch-Confraternity. There is also
a military company, composed of the larger students, who have
regular parades, the arms and accoutrements being furnished by
the State.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAW.
5
- The Institution possesses an ample and valuable Library; a
complete set of Chemical and Philosophical Apparatus; and a
rare collection of plants, comprising over four thousand speci-
mens, collected during fifty years, by the learned Thomas Cauvin,
Ex-President of the Scientific Congress of Europe.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic
to preserve the most perfect order and regularity. The morals
and general deportment of pupils are assiduously watched over,
and their comfort and personal habits receive the same attention
as if they were in the bosom of their own families. Only con-
ciliatory means of correction are used, but if the student proves
insensible to these, he is promptly dismissed from the College.
Parents may rest assured that the most zealous care will be
taken that their children comply regularly with their religious
duties, and that no efforts will be spared in instructing them
fully in the principles and obligations of their holy religion.
TERMS.
PER ANNUM.
Board, Washing and Tuition in the English Course, |125 00
Latin and Greek, extra,	-	-	-	-	-20 00
Spanish, Italian, French and German, each -	- 12 00
Instrumental Music, -	.	-	-	-	20 00•
Bed, etc., -	-	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 5 00
Entrance Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	5 00
Doctor’s Fees and Medicines .	-	-	-	- 5 00
Payments to be made half-yearly, m advance.
Class Books, Stationery, etc., furnished at the usual prices.
Clothes, Linen, etc., are also furnished by the College, at cur-
rent prices, but an equivalent sum must be deposited in the
hands of the Treasurer.
No boarder will be received for a shorter period than five
months.
Each pupil must be provided with six shirts, six pair of
stockings, six pocket handkerchiefs, six towels, a knife and fork,
6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
tea and tablespoon ; a hat and cap, two suits of clothes, an over-
coat, a pair of shoes and a pair of boots for the winter; two
suits of clothes, and two pair of shoes for the summer.
Pocket money is not allowed, except when placed in the
hands of the Treasurer, and subject to his discretionary appli-
cation.
When parents wish to have their children sent home, they
must give timely notice, settle all accounts, and supply means
to defray all traveling expenses. No deduction is made on
accounts, unless in case of sickness or dismissal.
At the termination of the Winter Tenn, an examination is
held in the presence of all the Eaculty. The principal and pub-
lic Examination, and the Annual Commencement, take place in
the last week in June. The first Session commences on the first
Tuesday in September.
N. B.—There is an additional charge of $20 for board and
washin sr during; the vacation.
-----	—e >	-----
Among the peculiar and unusual advantages which Notre
Dame presents as a place of education, may be noticed :
1—Its Retired Location.—At a time and in a country where
serious and solid studies are rare, where dissipations of every
kind are thrown in the way of the young student, where visitors
often interrupt the course of the scholar, and where morals are
but slightly watched over, it seems that every parent who de-
sires to secure to his son an opportunity of spending the few
years of his education usefully and profitably, and passing safely
the dangerous season of early youth, removed from all the
temptations of our large cities, should readily comprehend the
advantage of placing him at such an institution as Notre Dame.
Here, the young student is under the most watchful and paternal
care,'—here he can apply himself, undisturbed, to his studies,
under competent professors—and on moderate terms, he may
acquire a solid knowledge of everything to which he may wish
to devote his attention; here, also, his young mind breathes an
• ' UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. *	7
atmosphere of piety, whose influences will hover around him
throughout his life.
2—Its Northern and Healthy Site.—This is a point espe-
cially worthy the consideration of Southerners,'—the change of
air and location, having a natural tendency to produce the most
salutary effects on the constitutions of the natives of the Southern
States.	•
3'—The Extensive Grounds of the Institution.—If Students
are here deprived of hurtful pleasures and dissipations, they are
amply compensated hy those delightful and innocent amusements
which the nature of the locality so abundantly provides. The
extensive forests surrounding the College, give the best oppor-
tunities to those who are fond of hunting; whilst the beautiful
lakes, upon whose banks the University stands, afford choice
Ashing grounds in summer, and almost uninterrupted skating
during winter.	.
o
4—'Care in Sickness.—Students, when ill, have not to remain
in the College rooms, but are transferred to the airy and pleasant
apartments of the Infirmary, where they are attended by the
visiting physician, and nursed with devoted care by experienced
Sisters, who never suffer them to be alone, but strive to supply
the place of their absent mothers.
A fact may also be mentioned, which cannot fail to present a
great inducement to parents who have both sons and daughters
whom they wish to place at school; the near vicinity and the
intimate relations existing between the University at Notre
Dame and St. Mary’s Academy, one mile west of the College—■
both under charge of the same Association—young brothers and
sisters placed at these Institutions, may correspond freely, and
see each other frequently. It is also very convenient for parents
residing at a distance, who can thus visit both their children at
the same time, and have them together with themselves again.*
* St. Mary’s Academy, formerly located at Bertrand, Michigan, has been
recently removed to the vicinity of the University, abont one mile west. It is
beautifully located on the banks of the river St. Joseph, and is everything that
could be desired, as a locality for a Female Academy. It is under the charge of
the “ Sisters of the Holy Cross.” All the branches taught in the best Female
Institutions in the country are taught here. The buildings are extensive, and
additions and improvements are daily progressing. There is also a school for the
Deaf and Dumb, and a Manual Labor School, under the charge of the Sisters.
THE MANUAL LABOB SCHOOL
In this Department, conducted by the Brothers of St. Joseph?
boys are taught several useful trades, and receive at the same
time, a good, common English education. They are constantly
under the vigilant and paternal care of the Brothers/ Their
moral and religious training are the special objects of an asso-
ciation of men who devote their lives and energies to the noble
task of preparing the children of the poor to become good
Christians and useful members of society.
The conditions for admission are—
1st.—Each applicant must have attained the age of twelve
years, and shall remain until he is twenty-one,
2d.—He must pay a fee of Fifty Dollars on entering, which
sum is refunded in clothing at the expiration- of his term.
3d.—He must be provided with suitable clothing for the first
year.
-----.
Upon opening the Second Session of the Academic year, it
gives us pleasure to announce to the friends of the College its
prosperous condition, by giving a Catalogue of the Faculty and
Students.
\
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS,
ENTERED FOR THE FIRST SESSION OF 1856—1857.
b« r Q jk i »mfl I iThm—
- Andrews, Jacob	Madison,	Indiana.
— Brady, Thos.	Southwick,	Massachusetts.
" Bed, Sam’l H.	South Bend,	Indiana.
Barron, Benj. B.	Goshen,	a
Breckenridge, A.	Fort Wayne,	Cl
’"Bubrig, Henry	Indianapolis,	ll
- Bubrig, Wm.	a	«
Bonfield, Jos.	Chicago,	Illinois.
Bonfield, Michael	Cl	u
Blood, Martin	Bristol,	Indiana,
Ball, Matthew	Lafayette,	ii
-'Blaine, Robert G.	Elizabeth,	Pennsylvania.
- Bigelow, James M.	Lancaster,	Ohio.
Bigelow, Francis C.	cl	Cl
Byrne, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
Byrne, Patrick	H	ci
Bucksot, Fred.	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
- Carroll, Philip	Marine,	Illinois.
HDla*ncy, Sylvester	Chicago,	ci
Conway, Patrick	New Orleans,	Louisiana.
Clark, John	St. Joseph Co.,	Indiana. .
"Clifford, Michael	Chicago,	Illinois.
'Coquillard, Geo.	Lowell,	Indiana.
Conlisk, Jas.	Adrian,	Michigan.
' Connolly, Michael	Lafayette,	Indiana.
Corby, Michael	Detroit,	Michigan.
- CoUrte, John P.		
*™Coliins, Geo. F. B.	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania.
Cottim Vincent -	7	St. Joseph Co.	Indiana.
10
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Cottin, Francis	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Cottin, Joseph	U	CC	Li
'‘Dorsey, Francis C.	Alton,	Illinois.
Downing, George M.	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Dillon, Michael	,	Joliet,	Illinois.
-Downing Joseph	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania.
Davlin, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
Denny, John	Maumee City,	Ohio.
Devine, Thomas	Somonauk,	Illinois.
Drentel, Peter	Naperville,	it
Damon, Jason	Bridgeport,	Hew York.
Dennis, Wm.	Watertown,	Wisconsin.
-Edwards, John	Dubuque,	Iowa.
Elliott, Walter	Detroit,	Michigan.
E meric, Bosaire	St. Joseph Co.	Indiana.
Foley, Jeremiah	^.Milford,	Ohio.
Foley, Michael	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Finn, Geo.	Dubuque,	Iowa.
Parrel, Wm.	Ada,	Michigan,
Fitzpatrick, Michael	Lockport,	Indiana.
- Fitzpatrick, Jas.	Detroit,	Michigan.
• Ferral, James L.	Columbus,	Indiana.
* Fetters, Michael	Goshen,	u
Forrester, Peter	Laporte,	Li
-Flynn, Thomas	Chicago,	Illinois.
—Flanagan, Jas.	St. Joseph County.	Indiana.
Gorman, Jas.	- Gloucester,	New Jersey.
-"Garwood, Joshua	St. Joseph,	- Indiana.
’ Goldsberry, Livingston.	Indianapolis,	a
Goldsberry, Samuel	Li	Lt
Goldsberrv, Wm.	Li	ii •
- ’^Goldsberry, Robt.	Wyandotte,	Li
■ Gallet, Albert	Avon,	Illinois.
Goggin, Wm.	Milwaukee,	Wisconsin.
— Galagher, Owen J.	Marion,	Ohio.
- Gausepohl, John B.	Cincinnati,	Ohio.
Gogan, Wm.	Laporte,	Indiana.
Healy, Robert	Chicago,	Illinois.
Hoaly, Charles	LL	Li
"^-Heey, Peter		(t
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
11
—Hoey, John	Chicago,	Illinois.
' Hogan, Dennis	Galena,.	a
-Jackson, Samuel	Goshen,	Indiana.
“-Jennings, James	St. Joseph County,	Cl
~ Jennings, Samuel	ll	it	a
—Joyce, John	Mt. Sterling,	Kentucky.
Keefe? Jas.	St. Joseph County,	■	Indiana.
Kennedy, James	Placerville,	California.
'“Kelly, Jas. —Killean, Jas.	Terre Haute.	Indiana.
Lutzee, Jno.	Chicago, "	Illinois,
Lutzee, Henry _		ii
Lonregan, Jno.	Batavia,	Illinois.
-Lonregan, Thos.	Lockport,	Illinois.
-'Lilly, Edward	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
“'Lynch, Timothy	Chicago,	Illinois.
' 'Lemontaine, Edward	South Bend,	Indiana.
-Larrigin, Wm.	Day ton, ‘	Ohio.
■’Laflin, Joshua	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
"-Leyris, Adolphus	Bourbonnais,	Illinois.
McGinnis, Wm.	St. Louis,	Missouri.
Mahon, James	Columbus,	Indiana. .
—Miller, Geo.	Peru,	a
—McAnally, Edward	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania.
-May, Jas. H,	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
—May, Alvin D.		ii
—May, David B.	u	ii
-McBride,	Woodville,	.	Michigan.
—McNulty, John	Philadelphia,	Pennsylvania.
—McNulty, Florence	it	ii
Moriarty, Murtough	Ottawa,	Illinois.
Mulligan, Patrick	‘ Bertrand,	Michigan.
Murray, James	,	Beloit,	Wisconsin.
Murray, Edward	a	ii
McNealis, Michael	• Morris,	Illinois.
McGrath^ Thos.	a	a
Metzger, John •	St. Joseph County,	Indiana.
Metzger, Ferdinand	it	«	■ «
- McLandon, Jas.	South Bend,	a
—Melling, Andrew	.	St. Joseph County,	•u r
12
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME,
Meikel, Henry	Indianapolis,	- -	4* Indiana.
McCabe,		
- -Kelson, Wm. A.	Port Wayne,	Indiana.
Kelson, A. D. GK	u	ii
O’Brian, Thos,	Chicago,	Illinois.
O’Brien. Jolin	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
O’Donnel, Jeremiah	Detroit,	Michigan.
-O'Donnel. John		ii
'O’Shannesy, Jas.	Chicago,	Illinois.
Olvany, John	Michigan City,	Indiana.
Owens, Hugh	St. Joseph County,	ii
'"Phelan, Wm.	Brooklyn,	Kew York.
Phelan, Thos.	Cl	ii
Purzol, John	Monroeville,	Ohio.
Quinlan, Robt.	Wheeling,	Virginia.
Quigley, Henry	Dubuque,	Iowa.
■Reirden, Patrick	Chicago,	Illinois.
Riopelle, Claude,	‘	Detroit,	Michigan.
' "Ruan, Jas.	Oak Creek,	Wisconsin.
Ryan, Thos.	Lockport.	Illinois.
- Reilly, Andrew	Dubuque,	Iowa.
Ruschhaupt, Wm,	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Rohrer, John	South Bend,	.	ii
Rivard, Karcisse	Bourbonnais,	Illinois.
Sobini, David	Chicago,	ii
Sobini, Joshua	Ct	ii
-Stevens, Alanson	Indianapolis,	Indiana.
Spelmans, Jas.	Lockport,	Illinois.
■ Saunier, Clement	Versailles,	Ohio.
Sheely, Robt.	Delphi, •	Indiana.
Sniders, Louis	Hamilton,	Ohio.
■ Schwalm, Peter	Joliet,	Illinois.
—Schwartz, Anthony	Kaperville,	Cl
Shelden, Russel	Chicago,	Illinois.
" Smith, Alex.	South Bend,	Indiana.
■—Scanlan, Jas.	.	Chicago,	.	Illinois.
' Talent, Thos.	Kauvoo,	Cl
Talley, Alfred M.	Lowell,	Indiana.
-—Taylor, Jas.	Kew Trier.	Illinois,
-'■Turner, Thos.	Chicago,	
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
—Vickers, Jerome
White, Timothy
Wadleigh, John
‘ Walsh, Thos.
—Walsh, Peter
’•Walsh, Wm.
'Waldron, Ed.
- Wittrock, John H.
—Wells, Wm.
—Zurisseler, Anthony
~‘~Zahnle, Samuel
Indianapolis,
New Orleans,
Goshen,
Chicago,
(4
a
Painesville,
Cincinnati,
Stevens’ Point,
Satrilla,
St. Joseph County,
Indiana.
Louisiana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
n
a
Ohio,
a
Wisconsin.
Illinois.
Indiana.
A.CTJJLT
AND OTHER
COLLEGE OFFICERS.
----------------- -wrgn ।
Very Rev. E. SORIN', S. S. 0., President.
Rev. N. H. GILLESPIE, S. S. 0., Vice President,
and Director of Studies.
•	Rev. A. GRANGER, S. S. 0.,
Professor of Logic, Metaphysics and Ethics,
Rev. P. LAWLER,
Prefect of Discipline and Professor of Latin.
Rev. Mr. HOWARD,
Professor of English.
Mr. JAMES DILLON,
Professor of English and Mathematics.
Mr. T. FLANAGAN,
Professor of English.
Bro. BERNARDINE, J.,
Professor of English and Arithmetic.
Mr. D. J. MORIARTY,
Professor of Mathematics, Book-Keeping and English.
Mr. DOWNING,
Professor of Latin and Greek.
Mr. MAX GIRAO,
Professor of Music.
Bro. BASIL, J.,
Assistant Professor of Music.
Mr. POLAK,
Professor of Natural Philosophy and Penmanship. ‘
Mr. SCHRyEDER,
Professor of French and German. .
Bro. BERNARD, J.,
Tutor of Junior Department.
Mr. GOLDSBERRY,) A . , , - af. _
P™ RENT.THDT	C Assistant Pi elects.