(MAIN BUILDING )
FOUNDED 1842, CHARTERED 1844.
THIRTY-FIFTH
ANNUAL CATALOGUE
OE THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OE THE
THE ^.CADEMIC ^EAR 1878-79.
ZSTOTT^E DAME, IJSTTJI^aST^.:
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
1879.
IBoard uf fasten
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C,
President.
VERY REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, 0. S. C.,
V ice-President.
VERY REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
REV. AUGUSTINE LOUAGE, C.S.C.,
Secretary.
REV. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C,
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, 0. S. 0.,
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
BRO. EDWARD, C.S.C.,
Treasurer.
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
President.
Bev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Vice-President, and Director of Studies.
Bev. CHBISTOPHEB KELLY, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Very Bev. ALEXIS GBANGEB, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C.,
.	Sbckbtaby.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
ASSISTANT PREFECTS OF DISCIPLINE.
Senior Department.
Bro. THEODOBE, C.S.C.,	Bro. TIMOTHY, C.S.C.,
Bro. ILDEEONSUS, C. S. C.
Junior Department.
Bro. LEANDEB, C.S.C,	Bro. LAUBENCE, C.S.C,
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Minim Department.
Bro. ALBEBT, 0. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M.D., Physician.
felted Ipmltg,
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Vice-President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. CHRISTOPHER KELLY, C.S.C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
PROFESSORS.
Very Bev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C,
Evidences of Christianity, and Moral Philosophy.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. CHRISTOPHER KELLY, C.S.C.,
Logic and Mental Philosophy.
Rev. JOHN A. O’CONNELL, C. S. C.,
Moral Philosophy.
Rev. J. M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.,
English Criticism.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C.S.C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. THOMAS VAGNIER, C. S. 0.,
Natural Sciences, and Assistant Curator of Museum.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOEEEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language aud Literature.
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON,
Human Anatomy and Physiology.
Rev. P. KOLLOP, C.S.C.,
French.
6	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
WILLIAM IVERS, A.M., LL.B.,
Mathematics.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, AM.,
English Literature.
ARTHUR J. STAGE, A. M.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
LUCIUS G. TONG, LL.B., A.M.,
Law and Book-Keeping.
OTTO SCHNURRER, A.M.,
German.
JAMES E. EDWARDS, LL.B.,
History, and Librarian of the. Lemonnier Library.
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
Rev. MICHAEL LAUTH, C.S.C.,
German.
Rev. J. SCHERER, C.S.C.
German.
Rev. JAMES ROGERS, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. D. J. HAGERTY, C. S. 0.,
Mathematics.
Rev. PETER HURTH, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
ANDREW MORRISSY, C.S.C.,
Greek and Mathematics.
THOMAS McNAMARA, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
JOHN COLEMAN, A.M.,B.S,
Greek and Mathematics.
N. IRMEN, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C.S.C.,
Penmanship and German.
CORRECTION.
By a mistake of the Printer^ the name of Prof.
Joseph A. Lyonsy LL. D.. is ■misplaced in the Fac-
ulty List. It should be al the head of page 6. in-
stead of page 7,	.
GENERAL FACULTY.	7
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A.M.,
hatin and English.
Bro. CELESTINE, C.S.C.,
Telegraphy.
Teachers in Preparatory Department
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C., Bro. THEODORE, C. S. C.,
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C., Bro. JOHN DE MATHA, C. S. C.,
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
DEPARTMENT OF FINE ARTS.
ZMZTTSTCL
Rev. EDWARD LILLY, C. S. C.,
Director of Musical Department, Band and Orchestra.
Bro. BASIL, C.S.C.,
Organ, Piano and Guitar.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Violin, Flute and Clarionet.
ALHSTZD DRAWING-.
Bro. ALBERT, C.S.C.,
Artistic Drawing.
OTTO SCHNURRER, A.M.,
Perspective.
A

The President of the University is ex-officio President of each of the Special
Faculties.
Faculty of Arts.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, A.M.
WILLIAM IVERS, A.M.,LL.B.
ARTHUR J. STAGE, A.M.
J. F. EDWARDS, LL.B.
Faculty of Science.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C.S.C.
Rev. CHRISTOPHER KELLY, C. S. C.,
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, A.M.
ARTHUR J. ST ACE, A.M.
OTTO SCHNURRER, A. M.
J. COLEMAN, A.M.,B.S.
Commercial Faculty.
Rev. C. KELLY, C. S. C.
Rev. J. M. TOOHEY, C.S. C.
LUCIUS G. TONG, LL.B., M. A.
WILLIAM IVERS, A.M.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A.M.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C.S. C.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, LL.B.
OTTO SCHNURRER, A.M.
Law Faculty.
LUCIUS G. TONG, LL.B.
T. E. HOWARD, LL.B.
W. J. IVERS, LL.B.
Faculty of Civil Engineering.
ARTHUR J. STAGE, A.M.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, A.M.
WILLIAM IVERS, A. M.

ITHIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation of
J- the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Soein, and
was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, with
power to confer all the usual degrees.
The College buildings are on an eminence near two small picturesque
lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy farm-
ing region of the Saint Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the
river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United
States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway—
the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake Huron,
and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two passing
within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting at
Niles with the recently-built railway between that place and South
Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan
Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibuses or private convey-
ances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they
were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms. Sleeping
Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable of
giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The New Notre Dame.
On the 23d of April of the present year the University of Notre
Dame was destroyed by fire. The main College building, the Infir-
mary, the Music Hall, St. Francis’ Home, and the Minims’ Play Hall
were burned to the ground. The insurance was $45,000, about one-
fourth the original cost of the buildings destroyed. With this money,
and with the aid of the friends of Notre Dame throughout the country,
the community went to work to clear away the rubbish and to lay the
foundations of new buildings.
10	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Infirmary was first restored, remodelled, and covered with a
roof of slate and tin. Hereafter there will be no private rooms in this
building for permanent residence by inmates of Notre Dame; the
University offices also will be transferredo to the main college
building, for the greater accommodation of students and the public.
The, Main College Building.
The style of architecture adopted for this edifice is modern Gothic.
It presents a frontage of 224 feet, by 155 in depth, somewhat cruci-
form in shape, or like the letter E with an extended centre. A pro-
jection or wing on each side, directly connected with the main build-
ing, will make the total frontage 320 feet. The height of the main
building is four stories with basement, the height of the east and west
wings each three stories with basement. From the ground to the ped-
estal of the statue above the dome is 170 feet. The dome is unusually
lofty, extending 80 feet above the roof.
A rotunda 30 feet in diameter at the base passes from the founda-
tions up through the building, supporting the dome, and giving light,
air and ventilation to the whole building. This rotunda, surmounted ’
as it is by the glorious dome, and crowned by a statue over all, is en-
tirely self-supporting, and constitutes perhaps the finest feature of its
kind to be seen in any educational institution in this or any other
country.
The Study Halls.
These are located, as in the old building, in the east and west sides,
on the principal floor. They are most spacious and beautiful rooms,
77 feet in length, 41 in width, and 15 feet clear in height, well lighted
on three sides with large windows. The entrance to the study halls is
from the south, as before, and also from a corridor 16 feet in width
extending from each study hall to the rotunda in the centre.
The Class Rooms.
In nothing perhaps will the superiority of the new building to the
old be more manifest than in the class rooms, both as to location and
size. Twelve of them are situated on the same floor as the study halls,
thus ensuring convenience to students and professors, and doing away
with much of the noise that attended the march of heavy classes up
and down stairs. The average dimensions of the class rooms are 26
PROSPECTUS.	11
feet in length, 16 in width, and 15 feet clear in height. The Commer-
cial Class Room adjoins the Senior Study Hall, on the south side of the
building, and is 44 feet in length by 20 feet in width. All class rooms
are lighted by two large windows, five south windows lighting the fine
Commercial Class Room.
The floors above are divided in a similar manner to those below.
The dormitories are directly over the study rooms, are of the same
lofty height, and are lighted in like manner with large and numerous
windows.
Ventilation.
Particular attention has been given to the subject of ventilation,
flues for this purpose running through every story from basement to
roof, with openings from study halls, class rooms, dormitories, etc.,
thus securing pure and health-giving air in every room.
Fire Protection.
The destruction of the old College has drawn special attention to the
protection of the new building from all possible danger from fire. The
walls are of solid brick and stone; the trimming and ornamentation of
the exterior are of fine cut stone and galvanized iron, and all the roofs
and cornices are covered with slate. Then, in addition to the ordinary
stairways, there are fire escapes on every floor, so that should fire ever
again occur, which may God forbid, there will be the most ample means
of escape from every story and every room of the whole building. As
a still further protection from fire, and also for convenience and beauty
in lighting the building, instead of coal oil it has been determined to
use gas hereafter.
Front Extension.
The principal entrance to the College is from the south, facing the
main avenue, as in the old College, by a large and handsome porch
approached by an extra large and inviting flight of steps. At the
right of entrance are the President’s room and parlor and Vice-
President’s room and parlor, two spare rooms for visitors, and one
visitors’ waiting room. On the left of the entrance, looking out in
front, is the main parlor, 40 by 42 feet, with front and side bay
windows, corresponding to bay windows in the visitors’ and Presi-
dent’s rooms on the opposite side of the entrance. In the rear of
2
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
the main parlor is a smaller parlor, with octagonal front, connecting
parlor with toilet room.
Stair-ways.
Opposite the small parlor, on the’right of the entrance hall, is the
large main staircase, ascending in an octagonal niche, well lighted from
windows in outside walls. In the hall on each side of the rotunda a
large staircase for the accommodation of students extends from the
basement to the third floor, is flanked with brick walls, and lighted
directly from the outside. Thus there are three flights of spacious
stairs extending from basement to upper story, all placed in the most
convenient parts of the building, and where best protected from fire,
having also an outlet on each floor. There are two closet-towers in the
rear, about fifteen feet from the main building, with stairways, which
are also intended as fire escapes. These towers are three stories above
basement, and are well lighted and ventilated. From the dormitories,
besides the exits by corridors and main stairways, there are also fire
escapes into the wings on each side of the building. It will thus be
seen that the means of ascending and descending through the building,
and also of escaping from it in case of necessity, are all most ample.
The rotunda and dome are entirely self-supporting, so that if the
rest of the buildings were removed they would stand undisturbed as a
lofty tower, extending 170 feet from the ground and surmounted by a
beautiful statue of Notre Dame.
The Projecting Wings.
These are themselves no insignificant buildings, being each 42 feet
front and but one story lower than the main building. The west wing
will be used exclusively as a Community House, for those members
whose occupation makes it necessary that their residence should be in
the College. The east wing will be devoted to the Laboratory and to
the sciences in general. The Scientific Class Rooms will be in
this wing.
The Music Hall.
This is the name given to a large and most important building
which will be immediately erected on the east and front of the College
building—matching the Church on the west front. The main College
as a centre will thus be flanked on the right and left by the Church
and the Music Hall, the three buildings matching most perfectly and
PROSPECTUS.
13
forming one picture, the garden fronting the College and lying between
the Church and the Music Hall. The total frontage of these three
buildings will be some 500 feet.
The Music Hall will be 200 feet north and south, by 50 feet east
and west, and three stories in height. The first story will be divided
into two play rooms, each 50 feet by 100. On the second floor will be
the new Exhibition Hall, 150 feet long by 50 wide, and two stories in
height. This will leave two music rooms, one on the second and one
on the third floor, each 50 feet square. The play rooms, the Exhi-
bition Hall and the Music Rooms will thus all be larger and more con-
venient than before. Washington Hall will be devoted to gymna-
siums. An observatory in the front of Music Hall will receive the fine
telescope presented by the late Emperor of France.
Size of the New Notre Dame.
Those who have noticed the dimensions above given will see that the
size of the new buildings and the consequent room are much greater
than in the old. Counting square feet, it will be found that there are
over 30,000 more feet of flooring in the new buildings than in the old.
But another circumstance must be noted which practically adds much
to this room, and that is the greater proportion of ground floor. It is
well known that the old College was too high, the upper story being
practically useless on account of the long line of stairway to be climbed
before reaching it. In the new buildings then there is not only much
more actual room, but that room is nearer the first floor, and hence
much more usable. The new Notre Dame is therefore not only more
beautiful and commodious, but also more roomy, and with its room
more available than the old.
Heating, Lighting, and Ventilation.
The apparatus for heating, lighting and ventilating the buildings
are all of the most approved character, and embrace the latest im-
provements ; and these, together with the corresponding sanitary ap-
pointments, have engaged the special attention of the architect. The
walls are heavy, and thus make the building not only strong but also
warm. The windows are laro-e and numerous, and thus afford abund-
ance of light, and also ventilation if needed. The building will be
heated as before, by steam, thus ensuring safety, freedom from dust,
and uniform and sufficient heat. Coal oil, though never the source
14	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
of any serious accident here, is nevertheless recognized as subject to
danger, and will therefore be discarded in favor of gas, which is not
only safer but also gives a much more brilliant and beautiful light.
The large ventilating flues extending up through the walls and connec-
ting with every room will keep the air always pure by drawing off
a constant current from the floors upward and out through the roof.
In conclusion we need not say that every effort will be taken in fur-
nishing the various rooms of the University to secure the comfort and
health of the student. And we are led to say that it may be that the
good Providence of God, in taking from us our former building, has
but designed to give us one in its place which is in every way better
adapted to the purposes of an educational institution such as is needed
at the present time. Our loss, we trust, will thus in the end prove a
blessing.
The Site
of the College is one particularly adapted to the improvement of the
students. It is secluded and healthy, and constant care is rendering
a spot naturally beautiful still more attractive by art and good taste.
We state only the advantages of
Health and Retirement
that are enjoyed by the inmates of the Institution; a description of all
that pleases at Notre Dame would take us beyond the limit of these
pages. We prefer to give a hearty invitation to all our patrons, and
to all who think of confiding their sons to our care, to come and see,
and judge for themselves.
The advantages arising from the
Retired Position
of the College cannot fail to be appreciated by parents who have at
heart the education of their children; and even the careless student,
when once interested in his studies, soon finds out the benefits he can
derive from an uninterrupted attention to class and study. Though
secluded in a great measure from the busy world without, yet the num-
ber of students and the extensive College grounds give him a world of
his own, in which, what with Class, Examination, Notes, Literary So-
cieties, Religious Associations, Baseball Clubs, Boat Clubs, Dramatic,
Musical, Literary, and Scientific Entertainments, he finds full enjoy-
ment and amusement, and companions, ideas and sentiments that all
A
PROSPECTUS.	■	15
concur to fix his mind on his studies and establish him in habits of
piety, application and order, the influence of which will be felt during
his entire life. He breathes for a few short years the atmosphere of
order, of regularity in all that he does, of profound application to
studies, broken only by healthy and regular recreation; and certainly
in our times, when serious and solid studies are becoming so rare—
when all kinds of inducements to waste and fritter away time are
forced upon young students—when morals are so lightly watched over
—the advantage of the retired location of Notre Dame cannot be
too highly spoken of.
Providence has singularly blessed the Institution in regard to
health; and those who have had their sons in the College can give
their testimony that the regular course of life, added to the salubrious
climate and the fresh country air, has done much to improve the health
of their children.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to pre-
serve order and regularity. The morals and general deportment of the
pupils are assiduously watched over, and their comforts and personal
habits receive the same attention as if they were in the bosom of their
own families.
The Education
given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intel-
lect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and relig-
ious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending
classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian Doctrine.
Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics are delivered
to all the students together. Finally, a regular course of Dogmatic
Theology is established in the University for the benefit of the more
advanced students, who may desire to enter the world having their
minds stored not only with profane science but also with what is much
more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion. The religious
instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students. The intellec-
tual training is carried on with care and diligence by the officers
and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching are
adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected; so that no
pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in
view as an educational institution.
16	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
mim
For the care and training of children under the age of thirteen, there
has been established a Department distinct from, and independent of
the University; it is known as the Minim Department, and has ever
been one of the greatest objects of interest to persons visiting Notre
Dame. The pupils in this Department, unless for their out-door sports,
and in the refectory and dormitory, pass the day entirely under
the care of Sisters who take a tender and motherly care of their young
charges.
All the elementary branches of an English education are here taught,
together with French and German. Also, for the Minims, Music {piano')
is not an extra. In order to develop this Department and thereby
extend the advantages it affords for the forming of the young heart,
these concessions have lately been made in favor of the Minims.
Not the least considerable of the advantages enjoyed by the pupils
of the Minim Department is their complete separation from the larger
students. The discipline to which they are subject is much milder
than that of the students more advanced in age.
All students are required to attend the exercises of public worship
with punctuality and decorum.
Students must show themselves obedient and respectful towards the
Professors and Prefects of the Institution. They must never absent
themselves from the place in which they ought to be, unless with per-
mission from proper authority.
Students must carefully avoid every expression in the least inju-
rious to religion or morals, their Professors, Prefects or fellow-students.
The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except to such students of
the Senior Department as have received the written permission of their
parents to use it, and intoxicating liquors are absolutely prohibited.
Compensation for all damage done to the furniture or other property
PROSPECTUS.	17
of the College will be required from the person or persons causing
such damage.
No branch of study, onoe commenced, shall be discontinued without
permission from the Director of Studies.
No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission
of the President or Vice-President, or the one delegated to represent
them.
Students are expected to take baths regularly.
Students who have failed to give satisfaction in the class-room, or
who have been guilty of misconduct, must perform such tasks as shall
be assigned them, and may be excluded from all college exercises
until these tasks be accomplished.
No book, periodical, or newspaper shall be introduced into the
College without having been previously examined and approved by the
Director of Studies. Objectionable books found in the possession of
students will be withheld from them until their departure from the
University, or destroyed.
All letters sent or received by students may be opened by the
President or his representative.

The academic year commences on the first Tuesday of September,
and closes on the last Wednesday of June, when the Annual Com-
mencement, the Conferring of Degrees and Distribution of Premiums
take place. It is divided into two Sessions. At the termination of
each Session a strict examination of all the different classes is made in
the presence of the Faculty. There is no vacation at Easter.
When a student presents himself for admission into the College, he
is examined by the Director of Studies, and placed in the class for which
his previous attainments may have qualified him. His further promo-
tion depends on his application and progress. Should any student,
during the year, be found capable of passing to a higher class, he will
18
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
be promoted, and such promotion is equivalent to the honors of the
class he left.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts will be conferred on such of the
students as shall have completed the Classical Course and passed suc-
cessfully an examination in all the branches of the course, before the
Faculty.
The Degree of Master of Arts will be conferred on each of the
graduates of the first degree who shall have devoted at least two
years to literary or scientific studies, and shall have sustained satisfac-
torily an appropriate thesis. Students desiring to receive this degree
should make application in writing.
The Degree of LL. B., as also those of Bachelor of Science, Master
of Science, and Civil Engineer, will be conferred on similar condi-
tions.
Diplomas will be given to the students who shall have completed
the Commercial Course and passed a satisfactory examination before
the Board of Examiners. In all cases, students receiving diplomas
are supposed to be of good moral character.
No student will receive a Diploma or University Honor of any kind
until such time as all indebtedness to the Institution shall have been
satisfactorily settled.
Special facilities exist at Notee Dame for the acquirement of the
French and German Languages. Not only are these Languages
taught very carefully by persons of acknowledged competency, but
also there is every opportunity for conversation in these tongues.
All students applying for admission will be required to give satisfac-
tory evidence of their moral standing.
There are in the Institution several Societies, whose constitutions
and by-laws have been approved by the Faculty: such as the Arch-
confraternity, Sodality of the Blessed Virgin, Holy Angels, Holy
Childhood, St. Aloysius Philodemic, Classical, Scientific, Thespian,
St. Cecilia, Columbian, Saint Stanislaus Philopatrian, and Philhar-
monic Societies, Cornet Band and Orchestra, with some of which
students are recommended to connect themselves.
In case of sickness the student does not remain in the College
rooms, but is immediately taken to the Infirmary, where he is attended
and nursed with devoted care, by experienced Sisters, whose attention
to the sick needs no recommendation.
PROSPECTUS.	19
EXPENSES.
PAYABLE ITT ADVANCE.
Matriculation Fee,.........................................$500
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION, (Latin and
Greek, Linear Drawing and Vocal Music included),
Washing and Mending of Linens, per session,
USA The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September;
the second, on the 1st of February.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $10; Scientific Course, $10
Commercial Course, $5.
Students who s-pencl Simmer Vacation at the University
are charged, extra, $40.
As will be seen, the expenses for tuition, board, etc., have been re-
duced from $150 to $125 per session. We wish to state that this
reduction was decided upon before the fire, at a time when our pros-
pects were the brightest, and when we believed we could make the re-
duction with advantage to our patrons and without injury to ourselves.
Since the fire, we have considered, in view of our great losses, whether
we should be able to receive students at $125 per session, but have
finally concluded to trust to the generosity of our patrons to increase
the attendance of students so that we shall not suffer by the reduc-
tion. The charge therefore for tuition, board, etc., will in future be
only $125 per session, or $250 per scholastic year.
We would here remind our friends that this sum is at the rate of
but six dollars per week—scarcely more than the price for board,
rooms, etc., in good houses. It will be found that a student attending
even a college where tuition is free, but who has to pay for his board,
rooms, etc., in a private family, will be at greater expense for his ed-
ucation than at Notre Dame. On account of our retired location the
incidental expenses here are very few, and, as everyone knows who
has had experience, it is incidentals that make a college course expen-
sive. We feel therefore that we are justified in the claim that nowhere
can a student receive a complete college education with so little outlay
as at Notre Dame.
20
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned, per session:
Instrumental Music:
Lessons on Piano, and [
Use of Instrument, )
Lessons on Violin........... 12	50
Elocution—Special Course...... 5 00
Use of Library................. 1	00
Drawing—Landscape and Ar-
tistic..........*......... $15	00
Telegraphy.................. 10	00
Use of Philosophical and Chem-
ical Apparatus.............. 5	00
Modern Languages each.....	10	00
Qualitative Chemical Analysis at the expense of the Student.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Board, Tuition, etc., per session.............$125
(No extra charge for Music or Languages.)
{Students who spend Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra, $40).
SPECIAL REMARKS.
Medical Attendance and Medicine at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time during the year, but the most eligible
time for entering is at the beginning of a scholastic session.
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class-books, etc., furnished at current prices.
No expenditure for clothing or advances for pocket-money will be
made by the Institution unless an equivalent sum of money be depos-
ited with the Treasurer of the College.
No money refunded to the student leaving the University unless in
case of dismissal, or when the departure is unavoidable on account of
some grave reasons, of which the authorities of the University are the
judges.
Students are not permitted to keep money in their possession.
Whatever pocket-money parents may choose to allow their sons must
be placed in the hands of the Treasurer.
Each student, on entering, should be provided with—
6 Shirts, 4 pairs of Drawers,	2 Suits of Clothes for Winter,
12 Pocket Handkerchiefs,	2 Suits of Clothes for Summer,
12 Pairs of Stockings,	1 Overcoat,
2 Hats, 2 Caps,	1 Table Knife and Eork,
6 Towls, 6 Napkins,	1 Table Spoon, 1 Tea Spoon,
3 Pairs of Boots or Shoes,	Combs, Brushes, etc., for toilet.
N.B.—Express charges on parcels to students should be prepaid. At
Notre Dame are Offices of the Western Union Telegraph Co., U. 8.
Express Company and American Express Company.
♦
OXjWySSIOjVT
J COURSE.
Students entering the Course are expected to be able to read, write and spell,
cd least passably, besides having (Ln elementary hnoioledge
■	of Arithmetic and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
L—LATIN.
1	Grammar—As far as the encl of Regular Conjugations.—Bullions.
2	Exercises—Twenty Exercises—First and Second Latin Book.
—Spencer's Arnold.
II.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar.—Etymology in School Grammar—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geography of the
United States, including outlines of Physical Geography.
—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Barnes.
5	Penmanship.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Progressive Practical Arithmetic.
—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology completed.
—Bullions.
2	Exercises—First part of First and Second Latin Book completed.
—Spencer's Arnold.
3	Historia Sacra—Fifty Chapters.
IL—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax in School Grammar.—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.
22	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa, including
Outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.—Barnes.
5	Penmanship.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers (exclu-
sive), Progressive Practical Arithmetic —Robinson.

FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Etymology reviewed—General Rules of Syntax —Bullions.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, First and Second Latin
Book— Spencer’s Arnold.
3	Historia Sacra—Fifty Chapters.
II	.—GREEK
1	Grammar—From begining to the Verb.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek Ollendorff.—Kendrick.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Etymology in Analytical Grammar.—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Taxes—Higher Arithmetic.
—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.-LATIN.
1	Grammar—Syntax—Bullions.
2	Exercises—Second Part of First and Second Latin Book completed.
—Spencer’s Arnold.
3	De Viris Illustribus Romje—Ten Lives.
II.—GREEK
1	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi—Godwin.
2	Exercises—From26th to 61st Lesson— Greek Ollendorff—Kendrick.
3	Jacobs’ Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.—Casserly.
4	Gosper oe St. John—Selections by the Teacher.
Ill—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax and General Review.—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	23
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—(Completed) From Taxes to the encl—Higher Arithmetic.
—Robinson.
2	Algebra—(Begun) to simple Equations—University Algebra.—Robinson.
TTTITIZO YE A. It PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
L—LATIN.
1	St. Ambrose—Extracts.
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Prose Composition—Spencer's Arnold.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Bullions.
II	.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and review.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, First Greek Book.—Spencer’s Arnold.
3	Anabasis—First Book.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Analytical Grammar—Syntax.—Bullions.
2	Exercises—Composition.
3	Ancient History—To the Foundation of the City of Rome.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive)—University
Algebra—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Jerome—Ililarionis Vita.
2	Cjesar—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Prose Composition.
—Spencer’s Arnold.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax—Bullions.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.
—Spencer’s Arnold.
3	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
Ill—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.—Bullions.
2	Ancient History—From the Foundation of the City of Rome to the end.
—Fredet.
24	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV.-MATIIEMATICS.
1	Algebra—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
2	Geometry—(Begun) Plane Geometry.—Loomis.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a strict exami-
nation in all the Studies of the three Preparatory Years, unless their profi-
ciency is already known to the Faculty and pronounced satisfactory.
JF'RJEWUIVEjAJV year.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Lactantiits—De Opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
2	Virgie—Six Eclogues.
3	Sallust—Catiline.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.—Casserly.
5	Exercises—First Part Prose Composition, completed.—Spencer’s Arnold.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Syntax.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
3	Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays—Hart.
2	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV	.-MATIIEMATICS.
1	Algebra—(Completed)—From Series to the end—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
2	Geometry—Solid Geometry.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Ovid—First and Thirteenth Books of Metamorphoses.
2	Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3	Exercises—First Twenty Exercises, Part Second—Prose Composition.
—Spencer’s Arnold.
4	Prosody—Rules Completed— Casserly.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
25
■	II.—GREEK
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
2	St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
3	Cyropjedia—First Book.
4	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Composition.
—Spencer’s Arnold.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with Review of Composi-
tion—Essays.—Hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Spherical—Conic Sections—Review.—Loomis.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1 .JEneid—Virgil—Three Books.
2
4
Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Archias.
Exercises—Exercises of Part Second—Prose Composition.
—Spencer’s Arnold.
Prosody—From Rules to Versification.—Casserly.
Verses.
II.—GREEK
St. Gregory—Machabees.
Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
1
2
3 Exercises—Prose Composition.—MnwZd.
1
1
III	.—ENGLISH.
English Literature—Essays.—Hart.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
Trigonometry—The entire subject, including Mensuration.—Loomis.
1
1
V.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
Humax Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the Human Body, and
Nutrition.—Huxley and Youmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
History of England.—Burke’s Lingard.
1
2
3
I.—LATIN.
St. Augustine—Ue Civitate Dei—Exercises.
Horace—Odes.
Cicero—De Senectute.
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4	Exercises—Selected.
5	Prosody.—Casserly.
6	Verses.
II.—GREEK.
1	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucydides—First Book.
3	Exercises—Selected.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—(Continued).—Hart
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy.—Entire Subject.—Lockyer.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Physiology—Nervous System ancZ Hygiene..—Huxley and Youmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
1	History of England.—Burke's Lingard.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Livy—Two Books.
2	Horace—Satires and Epistles.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
IL-GREEK.
1	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
3	Homer—Odyssey.
4	Exercises—Selected.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1 Logic—Manier.
V.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Botany—Structural Botany.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Mechanics, Acoustics and Heat.
2	Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.—Barker.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	27
SECOND SESSION.
I.-LATIN.
1	Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GBEEK.
1	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
2	uEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—Extracts.
4	Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Elocution.
2	Obkotal Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Ontology and Psychology.—^Lanier.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Botany—Systematic Botany.—G-ray.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Optics, Magnetism and Electricity.
2	Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.—Barker.
SJElNIOIt YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintill ian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato—Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Theodicy and Ethics.—Manier.
2	Dissertation.
IV—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology—Leconte.
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
V.—CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.
1	The Constitution-.—Andrews.
2	Analysis of American Law.-Powell.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2	Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.—Manier.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by Professor.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Paleontology—Leconte.
V.
1	The Constitution.—Andrews.
2	Principles of Law.—Powell.
NT. B.—During the last four years of this course, students have an
opportunity, every week, of attending Lectures on Historical, Literary
and Scientific subjects.
ELECTIVE STUDIES.
Commercial—Book-keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing—(Figure, Landscape, Mechanical and Archi-
tectural).
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying, and the Higher
Astronomy of the Scientific Course.
Dogma.
SOIEZTTI^IO OOVRSE.
PREPARATORY YE^KS.
Note.—The Studies of these years are the same as in the first two years
of the Classical Course, except that Latin and Greek are replaced by one
of the Modern Languages and Drawing.
FBBSHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
1	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2	Ancient History—To the Founding of the City of Rome.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with the subject matter of History.
—Hl itchell.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Algebra—(Completed) From Series (inclusive) to the end—University
Algebra.—Robinson.
2	Geometry—(Begun) All Plane Geometry.—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Human Anatomy and Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of -the
Human Body— Nutrition.—Jifivart and Huxley.
2	Botany—Structural Botany.—Gray.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin*—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
1	Linear Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of Composi-
tion.— Essays.—Hart.
2	Ancient History—From the Founding of the City of Rome to the end.
—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with subject matter of History.
—Mitchell.
* Students preferring to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades of the Clas-
sical Course.
30
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
II.-MATHEMATICS.
1 G-eometry—(Completed) Geometry of Space (Solid and Spherical).
—Loomis,
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Human Anatomy and Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.
2	Botany—Systematic Botany.—Gray.
— Mivart and Huxley.
IV.-LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
1 Solid Object Drawing.
^OJUJEEOMOT^-Ei YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—Entire Subject.—Hart.
2	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Freclet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Trigonometry—The entire subject, including Mensuration.—Loomis.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Comparative Anatomy.—Mivart.
2	Zoology—Structural Zoology — Orton.
IV	.-LANGUAGES.
1	French, German, or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.-DRAWING.
1 Linear Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—(Continued).—Hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Freclet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture— Lyons.
II	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying —Gillespie.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Comparative Anatomy.—Mivart.
2	Zoology—Systematic Zoology—Orion.
3	Biology.—Huxley and Martin.
IV.-LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
1	Solid Oblect Drawing.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
31
JUNIOR,
1
2
3
1
2
1
1
1
2
1
2
3
1
2
1
1
1
2
1
2
1
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
General Geometry and Calculus.—Olney.
Astronomy—To Eclipses.— Loomis.
Mechanics—Smith’s Analytical Mechanics.
II.	—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics and Heat.—Norton.
Chemistry— (Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.— Youmans.
II	I.— NATURAL SCIENCES.
Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals— Collins.
I	V.-LANGUAGES.
French, German, or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.	—DRAWING.
Theory—Isometry.— Warren s Plane Projection.
Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and Sepia.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
General Geometry and Calculus.
Analytical Mechanics—(Completed).—Smith.
Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
IL-PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism and Electricity.—Norton.
Chemistry—Elementary—Inorganic Chemistry.— Youmans.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.—Collins.
IV.-LANGUAGES.
French, Germanor Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.-DRAWING.
Theory—Isometry.— Warren's Plane Projection.
Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and Sepia.
SENIOR AfJEjkEt.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Descriptive Geometry.
Geodesy—Field Practice.
' II.—PHILOSOPHY.
Logic—Entire Subject.—Louage and Cooper.
32	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Ill—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology—Leconte.
V.—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
VI—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Linear Perspective.
2	Practice—Use of Water-Colors, etc.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Shares and Shadows.
2	Geodesy.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
1 Ethics and Metaphysics.—Louage.
III.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Paleontology.—Leconte.
V.—LANGUAGES.
1 Erencii, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).*
ELECTIVE STUDIES.
Languages.—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts.—Painting,
Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music.—Vocal and Instrumental. Dogma.
Any Student in this Course is at liberty to take any of these Studies at any
period of his Course, provided he can do so consistently with his regular studies.
In addition to the regular recitations and practical illustrations in the Natural
and Physical Sciences, Lectures are given throughout the Course by the
Professors.
* It must be remembered that whichever of the Four Languages, viz. : French, German,
Latin or Greek, is taken up at the beginning of the Freshman Year, must be continued to
the end of the Course, or till satisfactorily known.
CIVIL ENGINEERING.	33
0mL ZEZSTC^inSTZEZELRIIIS^
Candidates for admission into this Course must pass a thorough
examination in the Chemistry and Physics of the Scientific Course
and in the several branches of Pure and Mixed Mathematics, be-
sides Grammar, Rhetoric, History, Geography, and Geology. The
Course requires one year, as follows :
FIRST SESSION.
I.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Shades, Shadows, etc.,—Advanced Course in Perspective.
2	Practice—Topographical Drawing.
IL—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—(Begun)—Rankine.
2	Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
3	Pure Mathematics—Calculus reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—DRAWING.
Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone Cutting-
Machine Drawing—Architectural Drawing.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Rankine—(Concluded).
2	Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
3	Hydraulics—Morin’s Traits d’Hydraulique.

Students wishing to pursue a scientific course will find every facil-
ity for doing so at Notre Dame. Fully aware of the demands of the
age, the authorities have spared neither pains nor expense to meet all
the requirements of the students of the Physical and Natural Sciences.
The Physical Cabinet
contains an extensive collection of apparatus of the latest style and
most improved construction. Several of them were on exposition at
the Centennial, and obtained for those who exhibited them the highest
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
awards given for physical instruments. Among these may he men-
tioned Konig’s Apparatus for analyzing sound, electrical and optical
apparatus by Edgerton, instruments for projection, etc. Besides the
apparatus designed for subjective use and for experimental purposes
in the class-room, there is a large number of select instruments for
lecture purposes, especially for illustrating those interesting branches
of physics, acoustics, optics, magnetism and electro-magnetism, and
statical and dynamical electricity. In acoustics the instruments for
studying the origin and nature of sound, the existence and interference
of vibrations, together with the beautiful apparatus designed by Lissa-
jous, Konig and others for the observation of sonorous vibrations by
the optical and stroboscopic method and by means of manometric
flames, are of the most improved character. The instruments for illus-
trating optics are also most select and complete. Besides the stereop-
ticons, vertical lanterns, microscopes, spectroscopes, etc., for projection,
there is a large number of slides, transparencies and preparations for
illustrating the various branches of physical and natural science,
astronomy, architecture, art, etc. The apparatus for the study of
spectrum analysis—including a fine Heidelberg spectroscope, a collec-
tion of Pliicker tubes for obtaining the spectra of gases and vapors—
prisms, lenses and other apparatus for projecting spectra on the screen,
as well as those used in studying the phenomena of the double refrac-
tion and polarization of light, should also be mentioned. For studying
statical and dynamical electricity, magnetism, and electro-magnetism
there is a large number of electrical machines, and batteries of dif-
ferent kinds, coils, helices, magnets, electro-magnets, galvanometers,
thermo-electric multipliers, Geisler tubes, rotators, magno-electric and
electro-magnetic machines, telegraph apparatus, telephones, etc.
The Chemical Laboratory
is fitted up with all the appliances necessary for the successful study
of General Chemistry and Chemical Analysis. As in the Physical
Cabinet, additions are constantly being made to the Laboratory, and it
will be the object of the authorities to make it in all its details as com-
plete and perfect as possible.
The Museum of Natural History,
embracing large and rare geological, mineralogical, zoological and bo-
tanical collections, is as complete in all its arrangements as the student
could desire.
PHYSICAL AND NATURAL SCIENCES.
35
'The Mineralogical Cabinet
contains a large collection of minerals from all parts of the world. It
is especially rich in specimens illustrating the crystalline structure,
modes of occurrence, etc., of the various ores and minerals, and embraces
a large number of magnificent specimens of pellucid quartz crystals,
cairngorm stone, amethyst, agate, jasper, sardonyx, chalcedony, geodes
of various kinds, calcite of all the principal crystalline forms, amazon
stone, fluorspar, mica, tourmaline, beryl, dendrite, selenite, garnet,
the various ores of gold, silver, iron, copper, lead, zinc, as well as of the
other metals of rarer occurrence. For the practical study of the phys-
ical properties of minerals the student of mineralogy will find in this
collection all he could wish for. Besides this there is also a rich store
of specimens for blow-pipe analysis.
The Geological Cabinet
is very complete, both in the number and character of the specimens it
contains. It embraces fossils of all the geological formations, both of
this country and Europe. Among them are many unusually well pre-
served, and of more than ordinary size. In a word it is furnished
with all the specimens that the student needs to make the study of )
Geology easy and interesting.
Popular Lectures on the Physical and Natural Sciences
form one of the most interesting features in connection with the Scien-
tific Department. These are intended mainly for those students who
cannot or who do not wish to take up the Scientific Course, but who
nevertheless desire to have a general knowledge of the leading facts
and principles of the Physical and Natural Sciences. All these lectures,
especially those on Physics and Chemistry, are illustrated experimen-
tally, and to attain most effectually the object in view, the best of ap-
paratus and specimens, especially those designed for projection, have
been secured. This method of popularizing science is, we believe, pe-
culiar to Notre Dame, not having yet been introduced, at least as far
as we are aware, in any other college in the country. All who have
had an opportunity of judging of its results speak of it with praise and
commendation.
Donations to the Museum.
During the past years, many donations of specimens have been made
to the Museum, all of which the authorities of the College most grate-
fully acknowledge. Mark S. Foote, of Burlington, Iowa, has contrib-
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
uted a large and valuable collection of geodes of various species; Mr.
Rudolph Rheinboldt, of Cincinnati, Ohio, a number of beautiful speci-
mens of quartz crystals, agate, amethyst, and petrified wood; Mr. Thos.
Shortis, of Toronto, Canada, a fine selection of Canadian ores; Mr.
Frank Cannon, of Philadelphia, Pa., a collection of marbles, Ameri-
can and foreign; Dr. Muller, of Carthagena, Ohio, a classified collec-
tion of silver, copper and antimony ores; Prof. Chapman, of Toronto,
Canada, a number of beautiful crystals of various ores and minerals ;
Bro. Francis Begis, C. S. C., a collection of gold and of silver ores from
Nevada and Utah; Charles Clarke, of Laramie, Wyoming, a number
of petrifactions; Hon. John Gibbons, of Keokuk, Iowa, a collection of
geodes of unusual size and beauty; and Louis and Pius Zahm, of
Huntington, Ind., fossils and Indian relics. Besides the foregoing the
Curator is under obligations to many other kind friends, who from time
to time have made valuable donations to the Museum.
The Curator of the Museum most respectfully solicits the assistance
of the old students and friends of Notre Dame, in enlarging and com-
pleting the collections illustrating natural history, ethnology, etc.
Specimens of minerals, shells, stuffed animals, alcoholic preparations,
Indian relics, coins, etc., will be most thankfully received, and will be
labelled with the name of the donor.
—1	■	1 IJ ■ n
All the branches necessary for a good legal education are included
in the Course. The Common Law System of Pleading and Practice is
taught. The course of studies in this Department embraces, chiefly,
Constitutional and International Law, Municipal Law, Law of Con-
tracts, Equity Jurisprudence, Criminal Law, Evidence, Pleading and
Practice.
For the purpose of acquiring a practical as well as a theoretical
knowledge of the legal profession, the students shall, during the Course,
LAW DEPARTMENT.
37
be required io argue cases, draw up pleadings, and conduct Law and
Chancery suits according to the rules and formalities of regular courts
of justice.
As it is a matter of the highest importance to a young lawyer that
on being admitted to the practice of his profession he should be able to
express himself clearly and fluently, full opportunity will be offered
for cultivating the art of public speaking. As one means of attaining
this end, and for the purpose of familiarizing the student with the prac-
tical workings of his future profession, Moot Courts, under the direc-
tion of a Professor, will be frequently held during the Course. For
the cultivation of other kinds of eloquence, still further facilities are
afforded in the various Literary and Pebating Societies of the Univer-
sity.
The entire Course for those commencing the study of the Law is in-
tended to be completed in two years, divided into four terms, which
correspond with those of the other departments of the University.
Every applicant, for admission into this Department is expected to
have, at least, a complete English education. It is very desirable that
he should also have a Classical training before commencing the study
of the Law; nevertheless, those who may not possess this advantage
will without extra charge be offered ample opportunities for acquiring
a knowledge of the Classics while pursuing their legal studies.
Students intending to follow the Law Course may enter at any time,
but it is more advisable and profitable for them to present themselves
at the beginning of a term.
The students will be required to pass an examination at the close of
each term, and to present an essay of not more than seven pages of
legal cap on some of the matters which they shall have seen, and fur-
thermore to give proof of proficiency in Rhetoric, English Literature
and Logic, before being allowed to graduate. The notes of the special
examinations and essays, as well as those of the application and
general standing of the members in class throughout the Law Course,
will be placed to their respective credits in the result of the final ex-
amination for the degree of LL. B. The following comprises a list of
the authors generally read during the Course:—Walker’s American
Law; Blackstone’s Commentaries; Parsons’ Contracts; Greenleaf’s
Evidence ; Washburn on Real Property ; Stephen on pleading;
Equity Jurisprudence—Story; Constitutional Law.; Criminal Law—
Bishop.
♦ , 1
It will be seen that the course requires two years’ study for gradu-
ation; it includes arithmetic, grammar and letter-writing, geography,
United States history, reading, spelling, penmanship, book-keeping,
and Commercial Law,—that is, a complete business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, especially the
great West in which we live, this Course is the most practical and one
of the most important that an educational institution can afford.
Those therefore who have not the time or the means to take a com
plete college course, in the classics and the sciences, would do well to
enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of study is
more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such studies as an
inexperienced student may iancy. The consistent training resulting
from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received the
most careful attention on the part of the officers and commercial
faculty of the University. Notre Dame proposes to give the grad-
uates of this course a more complete business training than can be
obtained in any commercial college. Believing that a business edu-
cation includes something more than a mere knowledge of book-
keeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few weeks,
this course has been extended over two years, the shortest time in
which the studies necessarily used in business life can be mastered.
Should a student desire during this period to take up any other
studies in which he may be interested, and for which he has time, he
will have liberty to do so. General history and linear drawing are
especially recommended to the students of this course. Many com-
mercial students find it also to their advantage to take up the study
of German or Drench, for which there are the amplest facilities. A
talented and studious young man may thus in the course of two years
COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT.	39
find himself in possession of a most valuable practical education,
which will fit him to take his place in the front rank of educated
business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Both Sessions.
1	Arithmetic—Same as First Year Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Year Preparatory in
Classical Course.
3	Geography—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate Prepara-
tory Course.—Mitchell.
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Col-
legiate Preparatory Course.—Barnes.
5	Reading and Orthography.
6	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
First Session.
1	Arithmetic—Same as First Session of Second Year Preparatory in Clas-
sical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-Keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory sets by Double Entry.—
Notre Dame System.—Tong.
o Penmanship.
Second Session.
1	Arithmetic—(Completed)—As in 2d Session Second Year Preparatory.
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory
in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-Keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.—Notre Dame
System.—Tong.
5	Commerciad Law.—Laws of Business.—Parsons.
6	Penmanship.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces the
following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:—Prepar-
atory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry;
1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of Merchandise on Pri-
vate Account; 2d Series, On account of others; 3d Series, Buying and
Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th Series, Importing and Export-
ing on private account, on account of others, and account of ourselves
40
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
and others in company; 5th Series, Receiving and forwarding Mer-
chandise, the management and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts,
Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting
and Paying Bills of Exchange, Banking—Private and Joint Stock—
Steamboating, Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Farming,
Mechanics’ Accounts. The whole Course illustrating the opening,
conducting and closing of stock and partnership books—gaining and
losing business, etc., etc. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Law.
Particular attention is paid to the explanation of the Law of Nego-
tiable Paper.
GERMAN.
FIIIST
ITirst; Session.
1	Ann’s Rudiments of the German Lang-uag-e—Fifty Exercises.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
Second Session.
1	Ann’s Rudiments of the German Language—From the 50th to the
lOOdth Exercise.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND YEAH,
Session.
1	Ahn’s Second German Book—From lOOdth to the 150th Exercise.
2	Ahn’s First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
»
Second Session.
1	Ahn’s Second German Book—From the 150th Exercise to the end.
2	Ahn’s First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
MODERN LANGUAGES.	41
THIRD YEAR.
First Session.
1	Ahn’s Tried German Book—100 Exercises.
2	Drittes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Practische Aufsatzlehre, No. 1.’
Second Session.
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—To the end.
2	Drittes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Practische Aufsatzlehre, No. 2.
FOURTH YIUVII.
First Session.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Viertes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Practische Aufsatzlehre, No. 3.
Second Session.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the end.
2	Viertes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Practische Aufsatzlehre, No. 4.
4	Compositions, and Introduction to German Classics.
N.B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two the
German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
FRENCH.
FIRST YEAR.
Fii’st Session.
1	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fivas’ Elementary French Reader—Twenty pages.
3	Orthography.
Second. Session.
1	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty-nine Lessons—
Regular Verbs.
2	De Fivas’ Reader—To the end.
3	Orthography.
SECOND YEAB.
First Session.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty-five lessons, and from page 261 to
page 357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet’s Literature.
3	Letter-Writing.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Second Session.
1	Fasqueeee’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to end of First Part,
from Page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition.
TIIIRD YEA.K,.
First; Session.
1	Grammaire de Noee et Chaps ae, with Exercises—Etymology.
2	Litterature Ceassique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
Second Session.
1	Grammaire de Noee et Chapsae, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Teeemaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other Modern
Languages.
Post-Graduate Course.
The Students in this Course occupy themselves with Philosophy,
History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law, Medicine and
Civil Engineering may be optional studies of the Course.
Larj Department.
We trust to see our Law Department better and better attended
year after year. We have every reason to be proud of the young men
who each year have sought the classic retirement of Notre Dame to
pursue their Law Studies. We shall endeavor to make their sojourn
among us an agreeable one, and give them every facility for study.
Civil Engineering.
This important Course is now thoroughly established, and will afford
our advanced students the opportunity of fitting themselves for the
practice of the eminent profession whose name it bears.
SPECIALTIES.	43
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of which is so
frequent and necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German Language—the classes of which are so numerously
attended—has been taught by five Professors during the past scholas-
tic year. The number of German students attending the University
is becoming greater every year. The French Language—though
more especially the language of the Collegiate Course—will be of great
advantage to the Scientific students. Other languages—such as Ital-
ian and Spanish—may be taught when required.
Phonography and Telegraphy.
These two branches invite the special attention of the students of
the Commercial Course. The Telegraph Department is fully organ-
ized, and is placed under the management of a skilful electrician.
Notre Dame is now in direct communication with South Bend and
the rest of the world by electric wires.
Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to study for the Medical profession will find
opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Studies in this
Department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy and Surgery. As
a Preparatory Course, that which is given here, under L. Neyron,
M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de Medicine, Lyons, leaves nothing to
be desired.
Drawing and Painting.
The Drawing Classes each year show a large increase over the pre-
ceding years. The University enjoys means adequate to all demands
in this branch. It possesses a large number of models in all sorts of
drawing, a fine Studio, and vigilant and zealous teachers of the art.
Painting promises, likewise, to be one of the popular branches of Art
taught at Notre Dame.
Music.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has five
Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conservatory
system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an exc dient Quartette,
and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are soi e of the leading
features of the Musical Department.
Vocal music will receive special regard. We call the attention of
44	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
our students and patrons to this favorite and useful branch of music,
which is now so deservedly popular. At present it may be studied
free of charge.
Astronomical Observatory.
A temporary Astronomical Observatory has been erected, in which
the fine instrument presented by the Emperor Napoleon has been
placed. The studies of the Class of Astronomy are now rendered
practically interesting.
Libraries.
The College Library before the fire contained some thirteen
thousand volumes, very carefully arranged by the Librarian. Dona-
tions of books, especially to the Law Library, will be thankfully
received.
The Circulating Library was commenced three years ago with
four hundred volumes. Previous to the fire which destroyed the old
University buildings it numbered over three thousand. All the Li-
braries which formerly belonged to the Literary and Religious So-
cieties were merged into it, and instead of the dozen or more book-
cases which often hid away instructive books, a collection of Literary,
Religious, Historical and Scientific works was open to the students,
in an apartment fitted up as a reading-room.
Lecture Course.
There are a great many students who, owing to different causes,
progress but slowly in the acquisition of knowledge in the class-room,
but who in the lecture-hall advance most rapidly, whilst all gain a
more comprehensive and practical perception of the various branches
of Science when clearly and concisely elucidated by the discourse of an
expert. The importance of Lectures has, therefore, never been over-
looked at Notre Dame, but of late the authorities of the University
have been led to devote particular attention to the organizing and de-
veloping of Lecture Courses on all the more important studies of
the Institution. Henceforth, therefore, students may expect to have
every facility, without any interruption of classes, to assist at regular
Lectures on Philosophical, Historical, Literary and Scientific subjects.
In this respect, the success reached during the past few years forms an
epoch in our educational training, and there is every reason for believ-
ing that the future will witness still greater triumphs.
From September 1878^ to June 1879.
Adams, William....
Anderson, Robert M
Arentz, John F.....
Arnold, AV. II.....
Arthur, Thomas....
Illinois.
Ohio.
Indiana.
District of Columbia.
Pennsylvania.
Burns, M. J.............................
Brady, John..............................
Brady, Philip F..........................
Byrne, Joseph M..........................
Brinkman, Charles........................
Becker, Frank............................
Boose, John..............................
Brice, James...........................
Burns, M. T............................
Barman, William...........................
Berteling, John....................  .....
Bloom, Frank............................
Byrnes, Timothy..........................
Bachman, II..............................
Baker, JohnG-............................
Burger, Anthony J.......................
Buchanan, Joseph.........................
. Bannon, Michael II......................
Barrett, Thomas............................
Bell, Frank M..............................
Bannon, Michael IV.........................
Bell, Janies AV............................
Bourgeois Raoul L..........................
Brown, Joseph..............................
Michigan. .
Alabama.
Alabama.
New Jersey.
Indiana.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Iowa.
District of Columbia.
Michigan.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
Wisconsin.
Indiana.
Ohio.
AVisconsin.
Indiana.
Louisiana.
Texas.
Courtney, James...
Courtney, Joseph..
Chaves, Jos6.......
Crowley, Patrick...
Coleman, John......
Collins, Eldorado E
District of Columbia.
District of Columbia.
New Mexico.
. Massachusetts.
. California.
.Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Casey, Jolin....
Casey, Bernard.
Conlan, Thomas
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin.
Connolly, William............................Iowa.
Castanedo, Gardner...........................Louisiana.
Congar, A. B.................................Illinois.
Cox, William.................................Ohio.
Cassidy, George P............................ Illinois.
Carpenter, William...........................Ohio.
Claggett, William H..........................Illinois.
Claggett, Bernard J..........................Illinois.
Coghlin, Louis W.............................Ohio.
Coghlin, Amadeus.............................Ohio.
Crowe, Charles............................... Michigan.
Crowe, John..................................Michigan.
Clarke, Columbus J...........................Illinois.
Caren, Alexander.............................Ohio.
Canoil, Harry................................Dakota.
Clarke, Thomas F.............................Ohio.
Cannon, Walter D............................Illinois.
Crennan, Clement............................Ohio.
Coddington, D. S............................Illinois.
Cavanagh, Chas. E. J......................  Pennsylvania.
Chirhart, Edward F..........................Indiana.
Chirhart, Alfred............................Indiana.
Cochrane, George...........................Illinois.
Cleary, Edward P...........................Illinois.
Chalfant, Evan T...........................Indiana.
Campau, Frank..............................Michigan.
Campau, Alexis.............................Michigan.
Campau, Philip.............................Michigan.
Cavanaugh, Frank...........................Iowa.
Cones, Chas. B.............................Indiana.
Carroll, John..............................Indiana.
Calkins, Edward............................Ohio.
Crawford, George H.........................Indiana.
Cabel, John V..............................Indiana.
Donnelly, Geo. H.
Doty, Martin... -
Devries, Chas. K.
Delany, James H
Donahoe, Daniel.
Illinois.
Illinois.
West Virginia.
Wisconsin.
Illinois.
CATALOGUE OE STUDENTS.
47
Devitt, Henry E..............................Illinois.
Devitt, James W..............................Illinois.
Devitt, Thomas...............................Illinois.
Dimick, L. D.................................Illinois.
Dempsey, Edward..............................Iowa.
Dougherty, Patrick J.........................Iowa.
Devoto, Elorian............................  Indiana.
Downey, John.................................Indiana.
Ewell, Edward J...........................Wisconsin.
Esmer, Edward.............................Illinois.
English, Michael..........................Iowa.
Eberhart, James...........................Indiana.
Evers, Luke...............................New York.
Eigholz, Otto.............................Ohio.
Eisenhauer, John..........................Indiana.
English, John C...........................Ohio.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Missouri.
Pennsylvania.
New York.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Dakota.
Eenner, Harry............................
Fitzgerald, Patrick......................
French, Richard..........................
Fogarty, Edward E........................
Eenneran, John...........................
Farrelly, Owen...........................
Farrelly, Frederick......................
Eoote, Moses.............................
Eoster, George 0.........................
Gordon, Joseph J.............................Illinois.
Garrick, Charles L...........................Illinois.
Guthrie, John W..............................Iowa.
Grever, Erank................................Ohio.
Glade, Fred..................................Illinois.
Gallagher, Edward............................Ohio.
Gibbons, John A..............................Indiana.
Gaftney, Erank...............................Michigan.
Garrity, Joseph..............................Illinois.
Garrity, Erank...............................Illinois.
Guynn, Henry, G..............................Illinois.
Garrett, John................................Indiana.
Garceau, Louis...............................Michigan.
Herrmann, John C.......................Iowa.
Hogan, Michael.........................Indiana.
Hartrath, Armin........................Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Louisiana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
New York.
Howard, Edward A........................
Horne, Louis............................
Horne, Peter............................
Halle, Judah............................
Hagan, J. P....................
Hertzog, Ambrose...............
Hearly, Henry..................
Hale, Thomas...................'........
Harrison, John F........................
Heney, James.............................Indiana.
Hickerson, C. W..........................Kentucky.
Herrick, Marcus E...............:.......Michigan.
Hierb, A.................................Iowa.
Inderrieden, John........................Illinois.
Inderrieden, Joseph........................Illinois.
Johnson, John Q........................Indiana.
Jones, William G....................Ohio.
Keenan, Robert E..........................Ontario.
Keenan, Alexander.........................Ontario,
a
Kurz, Jacob...............................Iowa.
Kennedy, James............................Ohio.
Kratzer, Erank B..........................Indiana.
Krost, Joseph.............................Indiana.
Kelly, Joseph R...........................Missouri.
Kinney, James P...........................Ohio.
Kitz, Harry...............................Indiana.
Knight, George 0..........................Indiana.
Kies, L. D................................Michigan.
Keller, Frank.............................Ohio.
Krieg, William............................Illinois.
Kotz, John................................Indiana.
Long, Charles...........................
Lumley, Joseph..........................
Larkin, Patrick B.......................
Laughlin, Michael.......................
Littig, Laurence........................
Lent, Alpha.............................
Lentner, William A......................
California.
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
Iowa.
Iowa.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Mergentheim, Aaron......................Illinois.
Murphy, Eugene..........................Connetecutt.
Megee, William.......................... Indiana.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
49
Mayer, Bichard P.........................Ohio.
Morgan, John L...........................Indiana.
Maguire, Henry...........................New York.
Marantette, Louis........................Michigan.
Murphy, William J....................... .Wisconsin.
Mug, John................................Indiana.
Manning, A. S............................Kentucky.
Mueller, Charles F.......................Wisconsin.
Mackey, Thomas...........................Illinois.
Mattes, Frank..............................Iowa.
Maley, Edward..............................Indiana.
McDevitt, William..........................Illinois.
McGrath, Chas..............................Illinois.
McGrath, Thos. F...........................Illinois.
McDonald, Harley...........................Illinois.
McGrath, James.............................Illinois.
McGrath, Thomas............................Illinois.
McGrath, John B............................New York.
McCarthy, Wm. J.........:..................Missouri.
McErlain, John.............................Indiana.
McGorrisk, William B.......................Iowa.
McCue, Martin..............................Hlinois.
McEniry, M. J..............................Hlinois.
McCarthy, Bobert ...................;......Indiana.
McCarthy, John ............................Indiana.
Niles, Henry G..............’......................Indiana.
Nelson, John L...................................Illinois.
Nelson, Nicholas J...............................Illinois.
Nevans, Henry W..................................Illinois.
Osher, Joseph...............................Illinois.
O’Brien, Bobert.............................Ohio.
Orner, Frank................................Indian a.
O’Donnell, John.............................Ohio.
Orr, George.................................Ohio.
O’Malley, Wm. V.............................Illinois.
O’Brien, William............................Illinois.
O’Connor, Bobert............................Hlinois.
Parsons, Frank..............................Hlinois.
Payro, Armand.............................. Louisiana.
Piekenbrock, Everhard.......................Iowa.
Pleins, Budolph.............................Iowa.
50
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Pleins, Frank...............................Iowa.
Phillips, Frank.............................Indiana.
Proctor, Lincoln............................Indiana.
Price, Robert 0.............................Illinois.
Perley, Samuel S............................Michigan.
Perley, Park................................Michigan.
Perea, Jacob................................New Mexico.
Palmer, George..............................Michigan.
Perry, Charles..............................Illinois.
Quinn, John P...............................Illinois.
Quinn, James J..............................Illinois.
Rheinhardt, William.........................Illinois.
Reidy, Dennis.........■.....................Ohio.
Rietz, Agustus..............................Illinois.
Rietz, Charles..............................Illinois.
° Rietz, William................................Illinois.
Rettig, Otto................................Indiana.
Russell, Richard F...........................Wisconsin.
Rhodius, George.............................Indiana.
Rock, Albert S.............................Illinois.
Ryan, William...............................Illinois.
Rheinboldt, Albert..........................Ohio.
Roughan, Michael............................Indiana.
Reilly, Michael S..........................Indiana.
Rea, Wm. F..................................New Jersey.
Snee, Harry................................Illinois.
Scanlan, Kickham............................Illinois.
Seegar, John...............................Iowa.
Stewart, John..............................Indiana.
Scanlan, John..............................Illinois.
Schneider, John M..........................Ohio.
Summers, Thomas............................Indiana.
Schnull, Gustavus..........................Indiana.
Stewart, Robert............................Pennsylvania.
Sugg, George F.............................Illinois.
Sugg, Edward G.............................Illinois.
Simms, Thus. W.............................Kentucky.
Slenzak, Joseph......................... .Indiana.
Scheiber, Augustus.........................Indiana.
Scheid, Frank..............................Illinois.
Stucky, Charles L..........................Indiana.
Schmueckle, Albert.........................Indiana.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
51
New Jersey.
Indiana.
District of Columbia.
Indiana.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Sampson, George J..........................
Shea, Patrick..............................
Shugrue, John J............................
Schoby, James K............................
Smith, Joseph S............................
Smith, Prank C.............................
Illinois.
Kentucky.
Kentucky.
Pennsylvania.
Mississippi.
Kentucky.
.Illinois.
Schifferle, Edward...........................
Simms, John E................................
Spalding, Samuel T...........................
Schaufert, Otto..............................
Semmes, Roger................................
Spalding, Joseph.............................
Smith, Charles P.............................
Thompson, John...............................Indiana.
Terry, Samuel P..............................Indiana.
Tourtillotte, George.........................Ohio.
Vogel, Philip H..............................Ohio.
Van Mourick, Constantine.....................Michigan.
Van Mourick, Anthony.........................Michigan.
Van Buskirk, William.........................Illinois.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
, Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana-
Ohio.
Minnesota.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Wyoming Territory.
. Indiana.
Way, Erank N...........................
Walters, Edward A......................
Walters, GeorgeS..............................................
Wolf, Max..............................
Williams, Roger T......................
Williams, Isaac C......................
Welty, Chas. J.........................
Weisert, Erank.........................
Walter, Edward S.......................
Widdicombe, W. A.......................
Walsh, Charles.........................
Wall, Erank X..........................
Ward, Edward...........................
Williams, Erauk........................
Woodson, Guy..........................
Wilson, Warren........................
Young, Charles..............................Indiana.
Young, Louis................................Indiana.
Zimmerman, Valentine.......................Indiana.
Zahm, Albert.............................  Indiana.
Zeis, Erank................................Illinois.
This Association was organized in 1869, the year of the Silver Ju-
bilee, and held its first meeting in June of that year, on the day
preceding the Annual Commencement.
The Association numbers among its members not only the regular
gratuates of the University, but also those who at any time held the
office of President, Vice-President, or Director of Studies of the
University, and those on whom honorary Degrees have been conferred	।
by the Faculty. Those who have been prominently connected with	i
the University of Notre Dame as Professors are eligible to membership,
and may be admitted on application by a two-third vote of the
members present at any regular meeting. The following is a list of
the members up to June 26, 1879. The graduates of 1879 will be
found on another page:
I.—PRESIDENTS OE	1 THE UNIVERSITY.		
Very Rev. E, Sorin (Founder), President from 1842 to 1865.			
Rev. P. Dillon,		cc	1865 to 1866.
Very Rev. W. Corby.		cc	1866 to 1872.
Rev. A. Lemonnier,		cc	1872 to 1874.
Rev. P. J. Colovin,		cc	1874 to 1877.
Very Rev. W. Corby,		cc	1877 to	
II.—VICE-PRESIDENTS OF THE UNIVERSITY.			
Very Rev. A. G-ranger, Vice-President from 1844 to 1851.			
Rev. F. Cointet,	cc	cc	1851 to 1852.
Rev. R. Shortis,		a	1852 to 1856.
Rev. N. H. Gillespie,	CC	CC	1856 to 1859.
Rev. J. M. Dillon,	cc	cc	1859 to 1860.
Rev. N. H. Gillespie,	Ci	cc	1860 to 1864.
Rev. P. Dillon,	cc	cc	1864 to 1865.
Rev. W. Corby,	(	cc	1865 to 1866.
Rev. A. Lemonnier,	cc	cc	1866 to 1872.
Rev. M. B. Brown,	cc	cc	1872 to 1874.
Rev. J. M. Toohey,	cc	cc	1874 to 1875.
Rev. J. A. O’Connell,	cc	cc	1875 to 1876.
Rev. J. A. Zahm,	cc	cc	1876 to 1877.
Rev. T. E. Walsh,	cc	cc	1877 to 	
ASSOCIATED ALUMNI.
53
III.—GRADUATES IN COURSE.
Class of ’49.
Rev. N. H. Gillespie, A. B.	Rev. R. Shortis, A. B.
Class of ’52.
Rev. E. B. Kilroy, A. B.	Rev. P. Glennen, A. B.
Class of ’56.
Rev. E. M. O’Callaghan, A. B.
Class of ’59.
James O’Brien, A. B.	Col. R. Healy, A. B.
Rev. P. Carroll, A. B.
Class of ’60.
James B. Runnion, A. B.	John Collins, A. B.
Class of ’62.
Rev. M. B. Brown, A. B.	Rev. E. C. Bigelow, A. B.
T. E. Howard, A. B.	J. A. Lyons, A. B.
J. M. Howard, A. B.
Class of ’64.
Rev. J. D. Spillard, A. B.	A. J. Stace, A. B.
M. A. J. Baasen, A. B.	Joseph Healy, A. B.
Class of ’65.
Rev. J. Elynn, A. B.	M. T. Corby, A. B.
Hon. T. A. Corcoran, A. B.	E. M. Brown, A. B.
J. C. Dunlap, A. B.
Class of ’66.
Rev. J. Kriihl, A. B.	W. J. Ivers, A. B.
Dr. John Carlin, A. B.	Dr. T. A. Daly, A. B.
Dr. J. Cassidy, B. S.
Class of ’67.
Rev. J. A. O’Connell, A. B.	Rev. M. Connolly, A. B.
Rev. A. Messman, A. B.	Rev. J. Bleckman, A. B.
A. E. Tammany, A. B.	P. Dechant, B. S.
Joseph McKernan, B. S.
Class of ’68.
W. T. Johnson, A. B.	T. Naughton, A. B.
J. E. McBride, B. S.	E. S. Pillars, B. S.
Dr. E. Von Donhoff, B. S.
Class of ’69.
T. W. Ewing, A. B.	J. A. O’Reilly, A. B.
W. P. McClain, A. B.	James Cunnea, A. B.
H. B. Keeler, B. S.	S. B. Hibben, B. S.
E. Hull, B. S.
• Class of ’70.
A. W. Arrington, A. B.	W. Waldo, A. B.
D. A. Clarke, B. S.
54
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Class of ’71.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, A. B.	R. EL McCarthy, A. B.
Hon. J. M. Gearin, B. S.
Class
T. Ireland, A. B.
M. H. Keeley, A. B.
T. F. O’Mahony, B. S.
Class
T. F. O’Mahony, A. B.
Eher B. Gambee, A. B.
Thomas J. Dundon, B. S.
Patrick J, O’Connell, B. S.
Class
of ’72.
John F. McHugh, A. B.
M.	M. Mahoney, A. B.
N.	S. Mitchell, B. S.
of ’73.
Mark M. S. Foote, A. B.
Dennis J. Hogan, A. B.
J. D. McCormick, B. S.
T. P. White, B. S.
OF ’74.
Thomas P. White, A. B.
Charles J. 1 )odge, A. B.
Robert W. Staley, A. B.
Charles E. Berdel, B. S.
William W. Dodge, B. S.
William J. Clarke, A. B.
Louis S. Hayes, A. B.
D. E. Maloney, B. S.
Harold V. Hayes, B. S.
Thos. A. Dailey, B. S.
Henry W. Walker, B. S.
Class of ’75.
Edward J. McLaughlin, A. B.
Thomas Murphy, B. S.
Charles Walter, A. B.
Thomas F. Grier, B. S.
Class of ’76.
Nicholas Stoffel, A. B.
Thomas F. Gallagher, A. B.
John J. Gillen, B. S.
Florian Devoto, B. S.
Everett Graves, B. S.
Thos. E. Johnson, A. B.
James Caren, A. B.
Henry L. Dehner, B. S.
E. S. Monahan, B. S.
Benjamin L. Euans, B. S
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, A. M.
Class of ’77.
David J. Wile, M. S.
John Coleman, A. B.
William P. Breen, A. B.
John G. Ewing, B. S.
Nathan J. Mooney, B. S.
William T. Ball, B. S.
Henry C. Cassidy, B. S.
Hon. John Glavin, C. E.
George J. Gross, LL. B.
Thomas C. Logan, LL. B.
Carl Otto, B. S.
Class of ’78.
Rev. Christopher Kelly, A. M.
Rev. Alexander M. Kirsch, M. S.
John G. Ewing, A. B.
Andrew Morrissey, A. B.
John Coleman, B. S.
James J. Quinn, LL. B.
Rev. Nicholas J. Stoffel, A. M.
Benjamin L. Euans, M. S.
Joseph P. McHugh, A. M.
W. K. Roche, A. B.
Daniel E. Maloney, LL. B.
Eugene F. Arnold, LL. B.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
55
HONORARY GRADUATES.
Hon. David L. Gregg, LL. D.
Gardner Jones, LL. D.
Dennis O’Leary, A. M.
Gen. W. E. Lynch, A. M.
Paul Broder, LL. D.
Daniel M. M. Collins, A. M.
Orville T. Chamberlain, A. M.
John P. Lauth, A. M.
Jolin J. Eitzgibbon, A. M.
Thomas B. Miller, A. M.
Rev. Dominick Hengesch, LL. D.
David P. Conyngham, LL. D.
Alphonse BoisramnY, A. M.
Thomas Elanigan, A. M.
Hon. Augustus C. Dodge, LL. D
Joseph E. Garcia, LL. D.
William J. Onahan, LL. D.
Hon. Erank H. Hurd, LL. D.
Hon. Philemon B. Ewing, LL. D.
ELECTED MEMBERS.
Rev. Joseph C. Carrier.
Rev. Thomas L. Vagnier.
Rev. Peter P. Cooney.
Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan.
Rev. Michael M. Hallinan.
Rev. William O’Rourke.
Max. E. Girac, LL. D.
Carl A. B. von Weller.
Lucius G. Tong, LL. B.
Hon. Claude N. Riopelle.
Charles J. Lundy, M. D.
James E. Edwards, LL. B
RELIGIOUS, LITERARY, SCIENTIFIC, etc.
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the Senior
Department, has for its object the propagation of the Faith, the prac-
tice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the cultivation of a
religious spirit among its members. It was established in 1845.
officers.
First Session.
Rev. T.E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
John Coleman, President.
Martin J. McCue, Vice-President.
John P. Kinney, Rec. Secretary.
A. J. Hertzog-, Cor. Secretary.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Martin J. McCue, President.
S. T. Spalding-, Vice-President.
John P. Kinney, Rec. Secretary.
J. P. Hagan, Cor. Secretary.
56
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Luke J. Evers, Treasurer.
George EC. Cochrane, Censor.
A. J. Burger, Organist.
Luke J. Evers, Treasurer.
M. J. McEniry, Censor.
A. J. Burger, Organist.
60 Members.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate
This Confraternity is composed of the students
partment. It has for its object the propagation
Conception.
of the Junior De-
of the Faith, the
practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the cultivation
of a religious spirit among its members.
OEEICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
G. H. Donnelly. 1st Vice-President. M. J. Burns, 1st Vice-President.
J. A. Gibbons, 2d Vice-President.
Thos. F. McGrath, Rec. Secretary.
William G. Jones, Treasurer.
Edward S. Walter, Organist.
T. F. Clarke, Censor.
J. A. Gibbons, 2d Vice-President.
T. F. McGrath, Rec. Secretary.
K. L. Scanlan, Cor. Secretary.
Geo. H. Donnelly, Treasurer.
E. S. Walter, Organist.
T. F. Clarke, Censor.
John L. Nelson. Sergeant-at-Arms. J. L. Nelson, Sergeant-at-Arms.
F. Weisert, Standard-Bearer.
F. Weisert, Standard-Bearer.
50 Members.
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
OEEICERS.
First Session.
V. Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
V. Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., As-
sistant-Director.
T. McNamara, (J. S. C., President.
Bro. Albert, C. S. C., Promoter.
A. M. Coghlin, Vice-President.
G. J. Rhodius, Secretary.
N. J. Nelson, Treasurer.
L. W. Coghlin, Librarian.
C. H. McGrath, 1st Censor.
P. S. Fitzgerald, 2d Censor.
Second Session.
~V. Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
V. Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., As-
sistant-Director.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Albert, C S. C., Promoter.
A. M. Coghlin, Vice-President.
G. J. Rhodius, Secretary.
N. J. Nelson, Treasurer.
L. W. Coghlin, Librarian.
J. S. Courtney, 1st Censor.
J. M. Crowe, 2d Censor.
A. Van Mourick, 3d Censor.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
57
Society of the Holy Childhood.
This charitable Association, organized to co-operate in an humble
way in the redemption of the children of infidels in China and other
pagan countries, was organized in 1869 and affiliated to the Society
of the same name in Europe.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Director.
Bro. Albert, C. S. C., President.
A. M. Coghlin, Vice-President.
J. J. Gordon, Secretary.
0.	H. McGrath, Treasurer.
N. J. Nelson, 1st Censor.
P.	P. Brady, 2d Censor.
G. J. Rhodius, Librarian.
51 Members.
LITERARY.
Associated Alumni.
OFFICERS, ETC., 1878-79.
President—T. E. Howard, ’62.
1st Vice-President—M. T. Corby, ’65.
2d Vice-President—A. J. Stage, ’64.
Secretary—R. W. Staley, ’74.
Treasurer—J. A. Lyons, ’62.
Historian—William W. Dodge, ’74.
Orator—D. E. Maloney, ’74.
Alternate—W. J. Clarke, ’74.
Poet—W. T. Ball, ’76.
Alternate—David J. Wile, ’77.
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851 (originally under the
name of the St. Aloysius’ Literary and Historical Society), is the cul-
tivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate knowledge of
history. It is essentially a literary and debating Society, and its
members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in writing and
fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E.Walsh, C. S. C., President. Rev. T. E.Walsh, G. S. C., President.
J. J. Coleman, Vice-President. M. J. McCue, Vice-President.
M. J. McCue, Rec. Secretary. J. J. Quinn, Rec. Secretary.
58
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
W. J. Murphy, Cor. Secretary.
J. P. Quinn, Treasurer.
A. J. Heetzos, ) 0
J. J. Quinn, £ Gensors'
W. J. Murphy, Cor. Secretary.
John P. Quinn, Treasurer.
A. J. Hertzog, I „
J. P. Kinney, ^ensois.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the
same time, a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its exer-
cises include Public Reading, Declamations, Essays, Debates, Dra-
matic Exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—the elite
of the Junior Department. The plays acted upon the stage for the
purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers of its members are
written especially for them, and are intended to increase the love of
virtue and righteousness.
Officers.—First Session.
V. Bev.W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
Bev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
Assistant-Director.
Bev.E. C. Bigelow, General Critic.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
T. E. Howard, A.M.,) TjPptnrprs
A. J. Stage, A. M., f
JI Promoters.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., j
E. W. Bloom, 1st Vice-President.
T. E. McGrath, 2d Vice-President.
G. H. Donnelly, Bec. Secre-
tary.
J.	G. Brady, Cor. Secretary.
K.	L. Scanlan, Historian.
A. Bietz, Treasurer.
M. J. Burns, 1st Monitor.
W. J. McCarthy, 2d Monitor.
E. Weisert, 1st Censor.
T. E. Clarke, 2d Censor.
J. A. Gibbons, Librarian.
A. A. Caren, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Officers.—Second Session.
V. Bev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director. M. J. Burns, 1st Monitor.
Bev. T. Walsh, C. S. C.,) Assistant-
Bev. C. Kelly, C.S.C., f Directors.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
T. E. Howard, A. M., Lecturer on
Political Economy.
A. J. Stage, Moderator.
J.F. Edwards, LL.B., ) promotprs
Bro. Leander, C. S. C, J Piomotels-
E. W. Bloom, 1st Vice-President.
T. E. McGrath, 2d Vice-President.
K. L. Scanlan, Bec. Secretary.
J. G. Brady, Cor. Secretary.
G. H. Donnelly, Historian.
G. A. Schnull, Orpheonic Branch.
A. Bietz, Treasurer.
W. J. McCarthy, 2d Monitor.
E. Weisert, 1st Censor.
T. E. Clarke, 2d Censor.
B. T. Williams, 3d Censor.
J. A. Gibbons, Librarian.
A. A. Caren, Sergeant-at-Arms.
G. Orr, Marshal.
W. G. Jones, } PromPters.
A. J. Zahm, )
E. Grever, > Property Managers.
J. Mug, )
E. Fogarty, Clerk of the Moot
Court.
40 Members.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
59
Thespian. Association.
Object, cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Very. Rev. W. Corby C. S. C., Director.
First Session.
J. E. Edwards, President.
A. J. Hertzog, Vice-President.
J. J. Coleman, Rec. Secretary.
J. P. Kinney, Cor. Secretary.
J. P. Quinn, Treasurer.
L. J. Evers, Librarian.
W. A. Widdicombe, Prompter.
£ ?• [ Censors-
J. J. QUINN, )
W. H. Arnold, Marshal.
A. J. Burger, )
J. B. Berteling, > Critics.
A. B. CONGAR, )
Second Session.
J. E. Edwards, President.
A. J. Hertzog, Vice-President.
E. Devoto, Rec. Secretary.
J. P. Kinney, Cor. Secretary.
J. P. Quinn, Treasurer.
L. J. Evers, Librarian.
R. E. Russell, Prompter.
J. P. Hagan,
J. J. Quinn,
Censors.
W. H. Arnold, Marshal.
A. J. Burger, }
J. B. Berteling, > Critics.
A. B. Congar, )
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
OFFICERS.
V. Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
Assistant-Director.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Albert, 0. S. C., Promoter.
A.M. Coghlin, 1st Vice-President.
G.	J. Rhodius, 2d Vice-President.
Willie Coghlin, Secretary.
E. X. Campau, Treasure]'.
N. J. Nelson, 1st Monitor.
C. McGrath, 2d Monitor.
C. M. Crowe, 1st Censor.
H.	N. Snee, 2d Censor.
C. H. Long, 3d Censor.
J. J. Gordon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
C. L. Garrick, Marshal.
V. Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
Assistant-Director.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Albert, C. S. C., Promoter.
A.M. Coghlin, 1st Vice-President.
N. J. Nelson, 2d Vice-President.
W. A. Coghlin, Secretary.
E. A. Howard, Treasurer.
G. J. Rhodius, Librarian.
E. P. Brady, 1st Monitor.
C. J. Welty, 2d Monitor.
P. S. Eitzgerald, 3d Monitor
C. H. McGrath, 1st Censor.
G. Woodson, 2d Censor.
J. J. Gordon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
C. L. Garrick, Marshal.
60	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
St. Stanislaus Pbilopatrian Society.
This Society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English Com
position and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
Officers.—First Session.
V. Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E.Walsh, C.S.C.,) Assistant
Rev. C. Kelly, C. S. C., f Directors.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
A. J. Stage, A. M., Dramatic Reader.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
C. Van Mourick, 1st Vice-Presi-
dent.
R. French, 2d Vice-President.
C. J. Brinkman, Rec. Secretary.
J. M. Scanlan, Cor. Secretary.
H. Canoll, Treasurer.
E. Sugg, ) Cpnqorq
J. Guthrie, ) ^ens01s-
J. Seegar, Sergeant-at-Arms.
J. Halle, Marshal.
W. Cannon, Librarian.
1| ProPerty Managers.
P. Crowley, Prompter.
Officers.—Second Session.
V. Rev.W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
Assistant-Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
T. E. Howard, A. M.,) Dramatic
A. J. Stage, A. M.,	) Readers.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., ) promo^ers
Bro. Leander, C. S. C.,j
T. McNamara, C. S. C., Director,
Orpheonic Branch.
C. Van Mourick, 1st Vice-Presi-
dent.
C. Rietz, 2d Vice-President.
J. M. Scanlan, ) Corresponding
P. Crommey, [ Secretaries.
J. L. Morgan, Treasurer.
E. Sugg, ) rpnqn™
H. Canoll, f ^eilS01s-
J. Schoby, Sergeant-at Arms.
L. Dimick, Marshal.
W. D. Cannon, Librarian.
J. A. Seegar, )
r c Pleins, j Pr°PertY Managers.
M. Foote,
P. Perley,
Prompters.
35 Members.
J. W. Guthrie, Rec. Secretary.
St. Edward Columbian Literary Club.
The Columbians were founded March 25, 1873, by the late Rev. A.
Lemonnier C. S. C., for the benefit of the Commercial students.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
V. Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director. V. Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Dir’tor.
J. F. Edwards, President.	J. F. Edwards, President.
J. A. Lyons, Hon. President.	J. A. Lyons, Hon. President.
A. J. Stage, A. M., Dramatic Reader. A J.Stace, A.M., Dramatic Reader.
Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.,) -prnTni.+pra Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.,) Pro-
Bro. Timothy, C.S. C., f1 lomlKeis. Bro Tim0THYj c moters.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
61
S. T. Spalding-, Vice-President.
C. K. Devries, Rec. Secretary.
E. S. Walter, Cor. Secretary.
B. J. Claggett, Treasurer.
R. Keenan, Prompter.
W. McGorrisk, Critic.
J. Stewabt, {c
J. English, ) ^cnsois.
R.	P. Mayer, Sergeant-at-Arms.
S.	S. Perley, Marshal.
S. T. Spalding, Vice-President.
T.	W. Sums, Rec. Secretary.
G. Sugg, Cor. Secretary.
D. Donahoe, Treasurer,
R. Keenan, Prompter.
R. Stewart, Critic.
J. English, ) OensOT,
M. J. MoExiby, J uenb01s-
R. P. Mayer, Sergeant-at-Arms.
M. T. Burns, Marshal.
35 Members.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Standard.
A semi-monthly manuscript periodical, edited by a select number
the St. Cecilia Society.
OFFICERS.
V. Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director. J. Brady, Treasurer.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President, G. Schnull, / p
J. E. Edwards, LL. B., Moderator. T. E. McGrath, f Gens01s*
E. W. Bloom, Vice-President.
K. L. Soanlan, Secretary.
M. J. Burns, Cor. Secretary.
G. Orr, Sergeant-at-arms.
Prof. T.E. Howard, A. M., General
Critic.
Lemonnier Library Association.
The Circulating Library was founded in 1872, by the late Rev.
•Father Lemonnier, for the use of the students of the University. All
but two or three hundred of the volumes were consumed by the late
fire. Donations of books are solicited from the students and their
friends. Direct care of J. F. Edwards.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C, ) Directors
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., J -L111601018-
J. F. Edwards, President and Librarian.
J. C. English, Vice-President.
First Session.	Second Session.
W. A. Widdicombe, Secretary. G. H. Donnelly, Secretary.
[ Ass’t-Librarians. X*	[ Ass’t.-Libr.
W. J. Jones, f	H. Canoll, $
62	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
W. H. Arnold, )	W. H. Arnold,	1
F. AV. Bloom, > Consultors.	C. J. Clarke,	> Con suitors.
D. S. Coddington, )	A. P. Perley,	)
MUSICAL.
University Orchestra.
1st Violin—Bro. Leopold, C. S. C., and A. J. Burger. 2d Violin—F.
W. Bloom, J. Thompson, and B. J. Claggett. Viola—B. F. Lilly, C. S. C.
Violoncello—G. S. Walters. Double Bass—D. Hagerty, C. S. C. Flute
—P. Kollop. Clarionet—Bro. Basil, C. S. C. Cornets—J. P. Quinn
and L. J. Evers. Trombone—B. F. Fr^re, C. S. C. French Horns—M.
Lauth, C. S. C., Bro. Basil, C. S. C.
Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
E Flat Sopranos—L. J. Evers, J. J. Quinn, J. H. Delany. B Flat Cor-
nets—J. J. Quinn, J. B. Berteling, B. E. Keenan. Solo—E Flat Alto—
Augustus Scheiber. 1st E Flat Alto—F. X. Wall. 2d E Flat Alto—
D. J. Hagerty, C. S. C. 1st B Flat Tenor—M. Lauth, C. S. C. 2d B Flat
Tenor—A. J. Burger. B Flat Baritone—T. W. Simms. 1st B Flat Bass
Trombone—J.B.English. 2d E Flat Bass—P. Kollop, C. S. C. 2 B Flat
Contra Bass—J. J. Coleman. Small Drum—P. J. Hagan. Bass Drum—
J. B. McGrath. Cymbals—AV. H. Arnold.
ATHLETIC.
Boating Club.
OFFICERS.
V. Bev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,) -) p. . J. P. Hagan, Secretary
Bev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., ({ Sectors, j Kinney, Treasurer.
Bev. C. Kelly, President.	H. Kevans, Capt. “ Minnehaha.”
J. J. Coleman, Commodore.	M. J. McCue, Capt “ Hiawatha.”
of
The Degree of Bachelor of Aris was conferred on
Ambrose J. Hertzog, of Natchitoches, Louisiana.
Luke J. Evers, of Sing Sing, New York.
Florian B. Devoto, of Salt Lake, Utah.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was corf erred on
William L. Dechant, Franklin, Ohio.
Martin J. McCue, of Greenwood, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Lavs was conferred on
Samuel T. Spalding, of Lebanon, Kentucky.
Michael W. Bannon, of New Cassel, Wisconsin.
William J. Murphy, of Hammond, Wisconsin.
Patrick J. Dougherty, of Coldwater, Iowa.

Commercial Dflomas 'were awarded to
Samuel P. Terry, of Rochester, Indiana.
John C. Hermann, Des Moines, Iowa.
Thomas Hale, Bunker Hill, Illinois.
Edward Dempsey, Dysart, Iowa.
William J. McCarthy, Boonville, Missouri.
John G. Brady, Tuscaloosa, Alabama.
Albert S. Rock, Lincoln, Illinois.
Francis Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Joseph M. Byrne, Newark, New Jersey.
Thomas Summers, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John Q. Johnson, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John F. Arentz, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Kickham L. Scanlan, Chicago, Illinois.
John M. Mug, Lafayette, Indiana.
Thomas Conlan, Neenah, Wisconsin.
Patrick B. Larkin, Loogootee, Indiana.
Richard P. Mayer, Cleveland, Ohio.
Edward J. Maley, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Charles F. Mueller, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Medical Certificates were awarded to
George P. Cassidy, of Equality, Illinois.
William Connolly, of Cresco, Iowa.
Joseph Krost, of Crown Point, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
One Mile West of Notre Dame University.
ALL the branches of a solid, and complete education are taught at
St. Mary’s. The course of studies is thorough in the Classical,
Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as these Languages enter
into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted, on the plan of the best Con-
servatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis
of instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the
course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting
or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and
Classical courses receive the graduating Gold Medals of these De-
partments.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the pupils who have pursued a
special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals are awarded in the following Courses: German,
French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing, and Domestic Econ-
omy in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deport-
ment both in the Senior and Junior Departments.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academic and Clas-
sical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6 ; Drawing and Paint-
ing, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Vocal Music, 2; Dress-making, Plain
and Fancy Needlework, 7.
Simplicity of dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.
The proximity of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s is a great convenience to parents
having children at both Institutions when they visit their sons and daughters.
An omnibus line between South Bend, Notre Danie, and St. Mary’s connects
regularly with all the trains arriving at South Bend.
