THIRTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL CATALOGUE
OF THE
OF THE
a me
7
^CADEMIC ^EAR 1879-80.
Quintal

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 23, 1880.
SCHOLASTIC TBESS.
1880.
A
THIRTY-SIXTH
ANNUAL CATALOGUE
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS

OF THE
Orf

TO
7
THE

JIUJTEl 23, 1880.
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
1880.
♦
Joad of Wister
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. 8. C,
PRESIDENT.
VERY REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. 0.,
Vice-President.
VERY REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
Chancellob.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C,
BRO. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
G
Very Kev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
President.
__ «
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Vice-President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. PATRICK W. CONDON, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Very Rev. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C,
Assistant Secretary.
ASSISTANT PREFECTS OF DISCIPLINE.
Senior Department.
Bro. THEODORE, C. S. C.,	Bro. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
Bro. TIMOTHY, C. S. C.
Junior Department.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.,	Bro. LAURENCE, C. S. 0.,
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Minim Department.
Bro. ALBERT, C. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M. D., Physician.

Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Vice-President and Director or Studies.
Rev. PATRICK W. CONDON, C. S. 0.,
Prefect of Discipline.
PROFESSORS.
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, 0. S. C.,
Evidences of Christianity.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. JOHN A. O’CONNELL, C. S. C,
Moral Philosophy.
Rev. JOHK A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. CHRISTOPHER KELLY, C. S. C.,
Logic and Mental Philosophy.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C.S.C..
Greeh Language and Literature.
Rev. A. M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences, and Assistant Curator of Museum.
Rev. J. SCHERER, C. S. C.,
German.
Rev. P. KOLLOP, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON,
Human Anatomy and Physiology.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M., LL D.,
Latin and English.
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
WILLIAM IVERS, A. M., LL. B.,
Mathematics.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, A. M., LL.B.,
English Literature.
ARTHUR J. STAGE, A. M.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
LUCIUS G. TONG, LL.B., M. A.,
Law and Book-Keeping.
JAMES E. EDWARDS, LL. B.,
History, and Librarian of the Lemonnier Library.
JOHN COLEMAN, A. B., B. S.,
Latin and Mathematics.
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
THOMAS McNAMARA, C. S. C.,
English.
ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
N. IRMEN, C. S. C.,
Lerman.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bko. celestike, c. s. c.
Telegraphy.
GENERAL FACULTY.
F. DEVOTO, A.B., B. S.,
Latin and Mathematics.
M. J. MoCUE, B. S.,
English.
Teachers in Preparatory Department,
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Bro. LEANDER, C.S.C.,
Bro. THEODORE, C. S. 0.,
Bro. MARGE LLINUS, C.S.C.,
Bro. HUGH, 0. S. 0.

DEPARTMENT OF FINE ARTS.
NYursio-
Bro. basil, c. s. c.,
Organ, Piano, Guitar and Flute.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. 0.,
Violin, Clarionet, and Director of Orchestra.
LUKE J. EVERS, A. B.,
Director of Band.
H’JATUrTILTG- JLTTTD
Bro. ALBERT, 0. S. C,
Artistic Drawing.
A. J. STAGE, A. M.,
Perspective.
The President of the University is ex-officio President of each of the Special
Faculties.
Faculty of Arts.
Kev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.
Rev. Nicholas Stoffel, C. S. C.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. 31.
t	Timothy E. Howard, A. 31.
j	William Ivers, A. 31., LL.B.
Arthur J. Stace, A. 31.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B.
Faculty of Science.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Rev. Christopher Kelly, C.S. C.
Rev. A. 31. Kirsch, C. S. C.
Timothy E. Howard, A. 31.
Arthur J. Stace. A. 31.
J. Coleman, A.B., B.S.
Commercial Faculty.
s	Rev. C. Kelly, C. S. C.
Lucius G. Tong, LL.B., 31.A.
William Ivers, A. 31.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. 31.
[	Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C.
James F. Edwards, LL.B.
|	Law Faculty.
j	Lucius G. Tong, LL.B.
!	T. E. Howard, LL. B.
\	W. J. Ivers, LL. B.
s	Faculty of Civil Engineering.
:	Arthur J. Stace, A. 31.
■	Timothy E. Howard, A. 3L
t	William Ivers, A. 31.
H1HIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation
of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Sorin,
and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844,
with power to confer all the usual degrees.
The College buildings are on an eminence near two small pietu-
resque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy
farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the
river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United
States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway
—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake
Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two
passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting
at Niles with the recently-built railway between that city and South
Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan
Southern Railroad depot, South Bend, omnibuses or private convey-
ances can be obtained.
The buildings are well adapted for the purposes for which they
were erected. The Study-Halls, Class-Rooms, Dining-Rooms, Sleep-
ing Apartments and Recreation-Halls are commodious, and capable
of giving accommodation to five hundred resident students.
The Ne^ Notre Dame.
. On the 23d of April, 1879, the University of Notre Dame was
destroyed by fire. The main College building, the Infirmary, the
Music Hall, St. Francis’ Home, and the Minims’ Play Hall, were
burned to the ground. The insurance was $45,000, about one-fourth
10
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
the original cost of the buildings destroyed. With this money, and
with the aid of the friends of Notre Dame throughout the country,
the community went to work to clear away the rubbish and to lay the
foundations of new buildings.
The Main College Building.
The style of architecture adopted for this edifice is modern Gothic.
It presents a frontage of 224 feet, by 155 in depth, somewhat cruci-
form in shape, or like the letter E with an extended centre. A pro-
jection or wing on each side, directly connected with the main build-
ing, wTill make the total frontage 320 feet. The height of the main
building is four stories with basement, the height of the east and west
wings each three stories with basement. From the ground to the ped-
estal of the statue above the dome is 170 feet. The dome is unusually
lofty, extending 80 feet above the roof.
A rotunda 30 feet in diameter at the base passes from the founda-
tions up through the building, supporting the dome, and giving light,
air and ventilation to the whole building. This rotunda, surmounted
as it is by the glorious dome, and crowned by a statue over all, is
entirely self-supporting, and constitutes perhaps the finest feature of
its kind to be seen in any educational institution in this or any other
country.
The Study Halls.
These are located, as in the old building, in the east and west sides,
on the principal floor. They are most spacious and beautiful rooms,
77 feet in length, 41 in width, and 15 feet clear in height, well lighted
on three sides with large windows. The entrance to the study halls is
from the south, as before, and also from a corridor 16 feet in width
extending from each study hall to the rotunda in the centre.
The Class Rooms.
In nothing perhaps is the superiority of the new building to the
old more manifest than in the class rooms, both as to location and
size. Twelve of them are situated on the same floor as the study
halls, thus ensuring convenience to students and professors, and doing
away with much of the noise that attended the march of heavy classes
up and down stairs. The average dimensions of the class rooms are
PROSPECTUS.	11
26 feet in length, 16 in width, and 15 feet clear in height. The Com-
mercial Class Room adjoins the Senior Study Hall, on the south side
of the building, and is 44 feet in length by 20 feet in width. All
class rooms are lighted by two large windows, five south windows
lighting the fine Commercial Class Room.
The floors above are divided in a similar manner to those below.
The dormitories are directly over the study rooms, are of the same
lofty height, and are lighted in like manner with large and numerous
windows.
Ventilation.
Particular attention has been given to the subject of ventilation,
flues for this purpose running through every story from basement to
roof, with openings from study halls, class rooms, dormitories, etc.,
thus securing pure and health-giving air in every room.
Fire Protection.
The destruction of the old College has drawn special attention to
the protection of the new building from all possible danger from fire.
The walls are of solid brick and stone; the trimming and ornamenta-
tion of the exterior are of fine cut stone and galvanized iron, and all
the roofs and cornices are covered with slate. Then, in addition to
the ordinary stairways, there are fire escapes on every floor, so that
should fire ever again occur, which may God forbid, there will be the
most ample means of escape from every story and every room of the
whole building. As a still further protection from fire, and also for
convenience and beauty in lighting the building, gas has been intro-
duced instead of coal oil.
Front Extension.
The principal entrance to the College is from the south, facing the
main avenue, as in the old College, by a large and’handsome porch
approached by an extra large and inviting flight of steps. At the
right of entrance are the President’s room and parlor and Vice-Presi-
dent’s room and parlor. On the left of the entrance, looking out in
front, is the main parlor, 40 by 42 feet.. In the rear of the, main
parlor is a smaller parlor, with octagonal front, connecting parlor with
toilet room.
---- -
t——1 1 ■ —	■ ■	■ ■ '"" 1 "■"	'
12	UKIVEESITY OF NOTEE DAME.
Stairways.
‘ Opposite the small parlor, on the right of the entrance hall, is the
large main staircase, ascending in an octagonal niche, well lighted
from windows in outside walls. In the hall on each side of the
rotunda a large staircase for the accommodation of students extends
from the basement to the third floor, is flanked with brick walls, and
lighted directly from the outside. Thus there are three flights of
spacious stairs extending from basement to upper story, all placed in
the most convenient parts of the building, and where best protected
from fire, having also an outlet on each floor. There are two closet-
towers in the rear, about fifteen feet from the main building, with
stairways, which are also intended as fire escapes. These towers are
three stories above basement, and are well lighted and ventilated.
From the dormitories, besides the exits by corridors and main stair-
ways, there are also fire escapes into the wings on each side of the
building. It will thus be seen that the means of ascending and
descending through the building, and also of escaping from it in case
of necessity, are all most ample.
The rotunda and dome are entirely self-supporting, so that if the
rest of the buildings were removed they would stand undisturbed as a
! lofty tower, extending 170 feet from the ground and surmounted by a
® beautiful statue of Notre Dame.
i
The Projecting Wings.
; These will be in themselves no insignificant buildings, being each
j 42 feet front, and but one story lower than the main building. The
west wing will be devoted exclusively to Libraries and Museums.
The east wing will be devoted to the Laboratory and to the Sciences
i in general. The Scientific Glass Booms will be in this wing.
j	The Music Hall.
This is the name given to a large and most important building part
of which has been already erected on the east and front of the College
building. The remaining portion, which is now in process of erection,
I will probably be completed during the course of the present summer.
The main College building as a centre will thus be flanked on the right
and left by the Church and the Music Hall, the three structures, which
। will present a total frontage of over 500 feet, matching most perfectly
PROSPECTUS.
13
and forming one picture. The Music Hall, which is three stories
in height, will, when completed, have a total length of 175 feet. In
width it will vary from a maximum of 90 feet to a minimum of 45.
The first story of the portion already erected is used as a play-room
for the students of the Junior department. The second and third
stories have been entirely given up to the use of the pupils of the
musical classes. The first floor of the part yet to be erected will serve
as a recreation hall for the senior students. On the second floor will
be the grand new Exhibition Hall, 100 feet long by a greatest width of
80, and two stories in height. The play rooms, the Exhibition Hall
and the Music Rooms will thus all be larger and much more convenient
than those connected with the old College. As soon as the new building
is completed, Washington Hall will be used as an armory and gym-
nasium. An observatory in front of Music Hall will receive the fine
telescope presented by the late Emperor of France.
Size of the New Notre Dame.
Those who have noticed the dimensions above given will see that the
size of the new buildings and the consequent room are much greater
than in the old. Counting square feet, it will be found that there are
over 30,000 more feet of flooring in the new buildings than in the old.
But another circumstance must be noted which practically adds much
to this room, and that is the greater proportion of ground floor. It is
well known that the old College was too high, the upper story being
practically useless on account of the long line of stairway to be climbed
before reaching it. In the new buildings then there is not only much
more actual room, but that room is nearer the first floor, and hence
much more usable. The new Notre Dame is therefore not only more
beautiful and commodious, but also more roomy, and with its room
more available than the old.
Heating, Lighting, and Ventilation.
The apparatus for heating, lighting and ventilating the buildings
are all of the most approved character, and embrace the latest im-
provements ; and these, together with the corresponding sanitary ap-
pointments, have engaged the special attention of the architect. The
walls are heavy, and thus make the building not only strong but also
warm. The windows are large and numerous, and thus afford abun-
dance of light, and also ventilation if needed. The building is heated
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
by steam, thus ensuring safety, freedom from dust, and uniform and
sufficient heat. Coal oil, though never the source of any serious
accident here, is nevertheless recognized as subject to danger, and
has therefore been discarded in favor of gas, which is not only safer
but also gives a much more brilliant and beautiful light. The large
ventilating flues extending up through the walls and connecting with
every room keep the air always pure by drawing off a constant current
from the floors upward and out through the roof.
In conclusion we need not say that every effort has been taken in
furnishing the various rooms of the University to secure the comfort
and health of the student. And we are led to say that it may be that
the good Providence of God, in taking from us our former building,
has but designed to give us one in its place which is in every way
better adapted to the purpose of an educational institution such as is
needed at the present time. Our loss, we trust, will thus in the end
prove a blessing.
The Site
of the College is one particularly adapted to the improvement of the
students. It is secluded and healthy, and constant care is rendering a
spot naturally beautiful still more attractive by art and good taste.
We state only the advantages of
Health and Retirement
that are enjoyed by the inmates of the Institution; a description of all
that pleases at Notre Dame would take us beyond the limit of these
pages. We prefer to give a hearty invitation to all our patrons, and
to all who think of confiding their sons to our care, to come and see,
and judge for themselves.
The advantages arising from the
Retired Position
of the College cannot fail to be appreciated by parents who have at
heart the education of their children; and even the careless student
when once interested in his studies, soon finds out the benefits he can
derive from an uninterrupted attention to class and study. Though
secluded in a great measure from the busy world without, yet the
number of students and the extensive College grounds give him a
world of his own, in which, what with Class, Examination, Notes,
Literary Societies, Religions Associations, Baseball Clubs, Boat Clubs,
PROSPECTUS.
15
Dramatic, Musical, Literary, and Scientific Entertainments, he finds
full enjoyment and amusement, and companions, ideas and sentiments
that all concur to fix his mind on his studies and establish him in
habits of piety, application and order, the influence of which will be
felt during his entire life. He breathes for a few short years the
atmosphere of order, of regularity in all that he does, of profound
application to studies, broken only by healthy and regular recreation;
and certainly in our times, when serious and solid studies are becoming
so rare—when all kinds of inducements to waste and fritter away time
are forced upon young students—when morals are so lightly watched
over—the advantage of the retired location of Notre Dame cannot
be too highly spoken of.
Providence has singularly blessed the Institution in regard to health;
and those who have had their sons in the College can give their testi-
mony that the regular course of life, added to the salubrious climate
and the fresh country air, has done much to improve the health of their
children.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to
preserve" order’ and] regularity. The morals] and general deportment
of the pupils are assiduously watched over, and their comforts and
personal habits receive the same attention as if they were in the bosom
of their own families.
The Education
given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intel-
lect of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and
religious culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of
attending classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian
doctrine. Twice a week, lectures and instructions on religious topics
are delivered to all the students together. Finally, a regular course
of Dogmatic Theology is established in the University for the benefit
of the more advanced students, who may desire to enter the world
having their minds stored not only with profane science but also with
what is much more important—a thorough knowledge of their religion.
The religious instruction is, of course, confined to Catholic students.
The intellectual training is carried on with care and diligence by the
officers and Professors of the University. The best systems of teaching
are adopted, and the best authors for each branch selected ; so that no
pains are spared to secure the objects which the University has in view
as an educational institution.
J ——--—-—--——--------
i
J
’ 16	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
[ For the care and training of children under the age of thirteen, there
! has been established a Department to which the most careful attention
has always been paid by the authorities of the University; it is known
as the Minim Department, and has ever been one of the greatest ob-
| jects of interest to the Faculty as well as to all persons visiting Notre
। Dame. The pupils in this Department, unless for their out-door
sports, and in the refectory and dormitory, pass the day entirely under
the care of Sisters who take a tender and motherly care of their young
i charges.
|	o
। All the elementary branches of an English education are here taught,
i together with French and German. Also, for the Minims, Music (piano)
i is not an extra. In order to develop this Department and thereby
| extend the advantages it affords for the forming of the young heart,
} these concessions have lately been made in favor of the Minims.
; Not the least considerable of the advantages enjoyed by the pupils
of the Minim Department is their complete separation from the larger
students. The discipline to wThich they are subject is much milder
than that of the students more advanced in age.
All students are required to attend the exercises of public worship
with punctuality and decorum.
Students must show themselves obedient and respectful towards the
Professors and Prefects of the Institution. They must never absent
themselves from the place in which they ought to be, unless with per-
mission from proper authority.
Students must carefully avoid every expression in the least inju-
rious to religion or morals, their Professors, Prefects or fellow-students.
The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except to such students of
the Senior Department as have received the written permission of their
parents to use it, and intoxicating liquors are absolutely prohibited.
Compensation for all damage done to the furniture or other property
PROSPECTUS.	17
1	of the College will be required from the person or persons causing
such damage.
No branch of study, once commenced, shall be discontinued without
permission from the Director of Studies.
No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission
of the President or Vice-President, or the one delegated to represent
them.
Students are expected to take baths regularly.
Students who have failed to give satisfaction in the class-room, or
who have been guilty of misconduct, must perform such tasks as shall
be assigned them, and may be excluded from all college exercises
until these tasks be accomplished.
No book, periodical, or newspaper shall be introduced into the
College without having been previously examined and approved by the
Director of Studies. Objectionable books found in the possession of
students will be withheld from them until their departure from the
University, or destroyed.
All letters sent or received by students may.be opened by the
President or his representative.
The academic year commences on the first Tuesday of September,
and closes during the last week of June, when the Annual Com-
mencement, the Conferring of Degrees and Distribution of Premiums
take place. It is divided into two Sessions. At the termination of
each Session a strict examination of all the different classes is made in
the presence of the Faculty. There is no vacation at Easter.
When a student presents himself for admission into the College, he
is examined by the Director of Studies,’and placed in the class for which
his previous attainments may have qualified him. His further promo-
tion depends on his application and progress. Should any student,
during the year, be found capable of passing to a higher class, he will
18	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
: be promoted, and such promotion is equivalent to the honors of the
: class he left.
i The Degree of Bachelor of Arts will be conferred on such of the
■	students as shall have completed the Classical Course and passed suc-
i cessfullv an examination in all the branches of the course, before the
t	*■
, Faculty.
:	The Degree of Master of Arts will be conferred on each of the
graduates of the first degree who shall have devoted at least two
years to literary or scientific studies, and shall have sustained satisfac-
torily an appropriate thesis. Students desiring to receive this degree
: should make application in writing.
The Degree of LL.B., as also those of Bachelor of Science, Master
of Science, and Civil Engineer, will be conferred on similar con-
j ditions.
! Diplomas will be given to the students who shall have completed
i the Commercial Course and passed a satisfactory examination before
5 the Board of Examiners. In all cases, students receiving diplomas
; are supposed to be of good moral character.
■	No student will receive a Diploma or University Honor of any kind
। until such time as all indebtedness to the Institution shall have been
; satisfactorily settled.
| Special facilities exist at Notre Dame for the acquirement of the
[ Drench and German Languages. Not only are these Languages
I taught very carefully by persons of acknowledged competency, but
i also there is every opportunity for conversation in these tongues.
i All students applying for admission will be required to give satisfac-
j topy evidence of their moral standing.
; There are in the Institution several Societies, whose constitutions
; and by-laws have been approved by the Faculty: such as the Are.h-
J confraternity, Sodality of the Blessed Virgin, Holy Angels, Holy
j Childhood, St. Aloysius Philodemic, Classical, Scientific, Thespian,
' St. Cecilia, Columbian, Saint Stanislaus Philopatrian, and Philhar-
monic Societies, Cornet Band and Orchestra, with some of which
students are recommended to connect themselves.
■
i	In case of sickness the student does not remain in the College
rooms, but is immediately taken to the Infirmary, where he is attended
and nursed with devoted care, by experienced Sisters, whose attention
to the sick needs no recommendation.
PROSPECTUS.	19
EXPENSES.
PAYABLE BYT .A'JDBEA.BBOE.
Matriculation Pee, -.........................-	- $	500
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION, (Latin and
Greek, Linear Drawing and Vocal Music included),
Washing and Mending of Linens, per session,	150 00
WThe first session begins on the first Tuesday of September;
the second, on the 1st of February.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $10; Scientific Course, $10 ;
Commercial Course, $5.
Students 'who sfend Summer Vacation at the University
are charged, extra, $40.
With this issue of our Catalogue for 1879-80 we resume our old
prices, viz.: $300 per scholastic year. We, however, make no extra,
charge for the modern languages, for which there was an extra charge
last year of $20 each, so the change in terms will not be very great.
During the past scholastic year we tried the experiment of reducing
the terms to the low rates of $250, and now we find ourselves unable
to continue at this rate, especially since the times have changed and
every thing required in the line of expenses is so much higher than
. last year. Considering the accommodations we are now able to give
our students, the terms, even at $300, are very low. Indeed, some
favored our putting them at a still higher figure. But we wish to be
moderate, and still be able to give our students every advantage of a
comfortable home, and first-class facilities for the study of every branch
useful and ornamental.
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned, per session:
Instrumental Music:
Lessons on Piano, and U...$22 50
Use of Instrument, J
Lessons on Violin.......... 12	50
Elocution—Special Course........ 5 00
Use of Library.................. 100
Qualitative Chemical Analysis at the e
Drawing—Landscape and Ar-
tistic.................... $15	00
Telegraphy................... 10	00
Use of Philosophical and Chem-
ical Apparatus.............. 5	00
Modern Languages each...... 10	00
mense of the Student.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Board, Tuition, etc., per session -	-	-	-	-	- $125
(No extra charge for Music or Languages.)
(Students who spend Summer Vacation at the College are charged, extra, $40.)
SPECIAL REMARKS.
Medical Attendance and Medicine at Physician’s charges.
Students received at any time during the year, but the most eligible
time for entering is at the beginning of a scholastic session.
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class-books, etc., furnished at current prices.
No expenditure for clothing or advances for pocket-money will be
made by the Institution unless an equivalent sum of money be depos-
ited with the Treasurer of the College.
No money refunded to the student leaving the University unless in
case of dismissal, or when the departure is unavoidable on account of
some grave reasons, of which the authorities of the University are the
judges.
Students are not permitted to keep money in their possession.
Whatever pocket-money parents may choose to allow their sons must
be placed in the hands of the Treasurer.
Each student, on entering, should be provided with—
6 Shirts, 4 pairs of Drawers,
12 Pocket Handkerchiefs,
12 Pairs of Stockings,
2 Hats, 2 Caps,
6 Towls, 6 Napkins,
3 Pairs of Boots or Shoes,
2 Suits of Clothes for Winter,
2 Suits of Clothes for Summer,
1 Overcoat,
1 Table Knife and Fork,
1 Table Spoon, 1 Tea Spoon,
Combs, Brushes, etc., for toilet.
NB.—Express charges on parcels to students should he prepaid. At
Notre Dame are Offices of the Western Union Telegraph Co., U. 8.
Express Company, and American Express Company.
Students entering the Course are expected to be able to read, write and spell,
at least passably, besides having an elementary knowledge
of Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—As far as the end of Regular Conjugations.—Bullions.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—First and Second Latin Book.
—Spencer's Arnold.
II.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Etymology in School Grammar.—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geography of the
United States, including outlines of Physical Geography.
—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Hassard.
5 Penmanship.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Progressive Practical Arithmetic.
—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
1.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology completed.
—Bullions.
2	Exercises—First part of First and Second Latin Book completed.
—Spencer's Arnold.
3	Hirtoria Sacra—Fifty Chapters.
II.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax in School Grammar.—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.

22	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa, including
Outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.—Hassard.
5	Penmanship.
HL—MATHEMATICS.
1 Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers (exclu-
sive), Progressive Practical Arithmetic—Robinson.
SECOND YJE-An PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Etymology reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.—Bullions.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, First and Second Latin
Book.—Spencer's Arnold.
3	Historia Sacra—Fifty Chapters.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—From beginning to the Verb.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek, Ollendorf—Kendrick.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Etymology in Analytical Grammar.—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers toPercentage—Higher Arithmetic.
—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Syntax—Bullions.
2	Exercises—Second Part of First and Second Latin Book completed.
—Spencer's Arnold.
3 De Viris Illitstribits Rom/e—Ten Lives.
II	.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 26th to 61st Lesson—Greek Ollendorff.—Kendrick.
3	Jacobs’ Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.—Gasserly.
4	Gosper of St. John—Selections by the Teacher.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax and General Review.—Bullions.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	23 i
IV.—MATHEMATICS.	i
1	Arithmetic—(Completed) From Percentage to Involution—Higher Arith- j
metic.—Robinson.	1
2	Algebra—(Begun) to Simple Equations—University Algebra.—Robinson.
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Ambrose—Extracts.	u
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Prose Composition—Spencer's Arnold.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Bullions.
II	.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and review.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, First Greek Book.—fencer’s Arnold.
3	Anabasis—First Book.	’
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Analytical Grammar—Syntax.—Bullions.	'
2	Exercises—Composition.
3	Ancient History—To the Partition of Alexander’s Empire.—Fredet.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Involution to the end.—Robinson.
2	Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive)—University
Algebra.—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.	•
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.
2	Caesar—First and Second Books.	•
3	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Prose Composition.
—Spencer's Arnold.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Bullions.	'
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.
—Spencer's Arnold.
3 Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.—Bullions.
2	Ancient History—From the Partition of Alexander’s Empire to the end.
—Fredet.

24	•	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Algeba—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a strict examin-
ation in all the Studies of the three Preparatory Years, unless their proficiency
is already known to the faculty and pronounced satisfactory.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Lactantius—De Opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
2	Virgil—Six Eclogues.
3	Sallust—Catiline.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.—Casserly.
5	Exercises—First Part Prose Composition, completed.—Spencer’s Arnold.
IL-GREEK.
1	Grammar—Syntax.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
3	Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays—Hart.
2	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Algebra—(Completed)—From Series to the end—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
2	Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books— Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I—LATIN.
1	Ovid—First and Thirteenth Books of Metamorphoses.
2	Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3	Exercises—First Twenty Exercises, Part Second—Prose Composition.
—Spencer's Arnold.
4	Prosody—Rules Completed.—Casserly.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
2	St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
3	Cyroiledia—First Book.
4	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Composition.
—Spencer's Arnold.

CLASSICAL COURSE.	25
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with Review of Composi-
tion—Essays.—Hart..
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed)—Solid.—Loomis.
SOPHOMORIG
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	AEneid—Virgil—Three Books.
2	Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Archias.
3	Exercises—Exercises of Part Second—Prose Composition.—Spencer's Arnold.
4	Prosody—From Rules to Versification.—Casserly.
5	Verses.
II	.—GREEK
1	St. Gregory—Machabees.
2	Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.—Arnold.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature—Essays—Hart.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Conic Sections—Review.—Loomis.
V.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the Human Body, and
Nutrition.—Huxley and Youmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
1 History of England.—Burke's Lingard.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.	'
1	St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
2	Horace—Odes.
3	Cicero—De Senectute.
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4	Exercises—Selected.
5	Prosody—Casserty.
6	Verses.
II.—GREEK.
1	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucydides—First Book.
3	Exercises—Selected.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—(Continued)—Hart.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Trigonometry—The entire Subject, including Mensuration.—Loomis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.—Huxley and Youmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
1	History of England—Burke's Lingard.
JUNIOR YHAR..
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Livy—Two Books.
2	Horace—Satires and Epistles.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
II.—GREEK.
1	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
3	Homer—Odyssey.
4	Exercises—Selected.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1 Logic.—Louin.
V.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Botany—Structural Botany.
VL—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Mechanics, Acoustics and Heat.
2	Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.—Barker.

CLASSICAL COURSE.	27
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.	’
1	Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires
3	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.	‘
1	Sophocles—CEdipns Tyrannus.
2	TEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—Extracts.
4	Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Elocution.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepljum.
IV.-PHILOSOPHY.
1 Ontology and Psychology.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Botany—Systematic Botany.—G-ray.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Optics, Magnetism and Electricity.
2	Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.—Barker.
SENIOR
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintillian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica.Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
II	.—GREEK. .
1	Plato—Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Theodicy and Ethics.
2	Dissertation.
28	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Leconte.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Astronomy to Eclipses.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2	Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.—Manier.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by Professor.
IV.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Paleontology.—Leconte.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy—Erom Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
N. B.—During the last four years of this course, students have an
opportunity of attending Lectures on Historical, Literary, and Scien-
tific subjects.
ELECTIVE STUDIES.
Commercial—Book-keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing—(Figure, Landscape, Mechanical and Archi-
tectural).
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying, and the Higher
Astronomy of the Scientific Course.
Dogma.
SOIEnSTTT^IO COURSE.
PREPAKATORY YEARS.
Note.— The Studies of these years are the same as in the first two
years of the Classical Course, except that Latin and Greek may be
replaced by one of the Modern Languages and Drawing.
FRESHMAN YJEA.R.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.	,
1	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2	Ancient History—To Partition of Alexander’s Empire.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with the subject matter of History.
—Mitchell.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Algebra—(Completed) From Series (inclusive) to the end—University
Algebra—Robinson.
2	Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Human Anatomy and Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the
Human Body—Nutrition—Mivart and Huxley.
2	Botany—Structural Botany.—Gray.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin*—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
1	Linear Drawing.	.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of Composition.
—Essays.—Hart.
2	Ancient History—From the Founding of the City of Rome to the end.
—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with subject matter of History.
—Mitchell.
* Students preferring to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades of the
Classical Course.
30	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed), Geometry of Space (Solid and
Spherical).—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Human Anatomy and Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.
—Mivart and Huxley.
2	Botany—Systematic Botany.—Gray.
IV.-LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
1 Architectural Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR,
FIRST SSESION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—Entire Subject—Fart
2	Modern History—To the Crusades —Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Geometry—(Conic Sections).—Loomis.
2	Zoology—Structural Zoology.— Orton.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
1 Machine Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—(Continued)—Hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
1 Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.—Gillespie.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Zoology—Systematic Zoology.—Orton.
2	Biology.—Huxley and Martin.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V—DRAWING.
1 Free Hand Drawing.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	31
JUNIOR YEAB.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	General Geometry and Calculus.—Olney.
2	Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics and Heat—Norton.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.—Youmans.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals.—Collins.
IV	.-LANGUAGES.
1	French, German, or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Isometry.—Warren's Plane Projection.
2	Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and Sepia.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	General Geometry and Calculus.
2	Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.— Loomis.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism and Electricity.—Norton.
2	Chemistry—Elementary—Inorganic Chemistry.—Youmans.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.—Collins.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Perspective.
2	Practice—Exercises in the use of Water Colors.
SENIOR YEAK.
FIRST SESSION
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Descriptive Geometry—Davies.
2	Geodesy—Field Practice —Henclc.
3	Mechanics—Statics—Smith.
II.—PHILOSOPHY.
1 Logic—Entire Subject.—Lounge and Cooper
32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analyticl Chemistry— Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Leconte.
V.—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
VI.- DRAWING,
ft
1	Theory—Aerial Perspective and Decorative Art.
2	Practice—Use of Water-Colors, etc.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Shades and Shadows.—Davies.
2	Geodesy.
3	Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics.—Smith.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
1 Ethics and Metaphysics.—Louage.
III.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Paleontology.—Leconte.
V.-LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).*
ELECTIVE STUDIES.
Languages.—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts.—Painting,
Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music—Vocal and Instrumental. Dogma.
Any Student in this Course is at liberty to take any of these Studies at any
period of his Course, provided he can do so consistently with his regular studies.
In addition to the regular recitations and practical illustrations in the Natural
and Physical Sciences, Lectures are given throughout the Course by the
Professors.
* It must be remembered that whichever of the Four Languages, viz.: French, German,
Latin or Greek, is taken up at the beginning of the Freshman Year, must be continued to
the end of the Course, or till satisfactorily known
CIVIL ENGINEERING.	33
CIVIL ICHFG-TISrLJVjLCTISrG--
Candidates for admission into this Course must pass a thorough
examination in the Chemistry and Physics of the Scientific Course
and in the several branches of Pure and Mixed Mathematics, besides
Grammar, Rhetoric, History, Geography, and Geology. The Course
requires one year, as follows:
FIRST SESSION.
1.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Shades, Shadows, etc.—Advanced Course in Perspective.
2	Practice—Topographical Drawing.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—(Begun)—Mahan.
2	Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
3	Pure Mathematics—Calculus reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
• I.—DRAWING.
Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone Cutting.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—Concluded.—Mahan.
2	Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
3	Hydraulics.
Students wishing to pursue a scientific course will find every facility
for doing so at Notre Dame. Fully aware of the demands of the age,
the authorities have spared neither pains nor expense to meet all the
requirements of the students of the Physical and Natural Sciences.
The Physical Cabinet
contains an extensive collection of apparatus of the latest style and
most improved construction. Several of them were on exposition at
the Centennial, and obtained for those who exhibited them the highest
awards given for physical instruments. Among these may be menti-

*
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
oned Konig’s Apparatus for analyzing sound, electrical and optical
apparatus by Edgerton, instruments for projection, etc. Besides the
apparatus designed for subjective use and for experimental purposes
in- the class-room, there is a large number of select instruments for
lecture purposes, especially for illustrating those interesting branches
of physics, acoustics, optics, magnetism and electro-magnetism, and
statical and dynamical electricity. In acoustics the instruments for
studying the origin and nature of sound, the existence and interference
of vibrations, together with the beautiful apparatus designed by Lissa-
jous, Konig and others for the observation of sonorous vibrations by
the optical and stroboscopic method and by means of manometric
flames, are of the most improved character. The instruments for
illustrating optics are also most select and complete. Besides the
stereopticons, vertical lanterns, microscopes, spectroscopes, etc., for
projection, there is a large number of slides, transparencies and prepa-
rations for illustrating the various branches of physical and natural
science, astronomy, architecture, art, etc. The apparatus for the study
of spectrum analysis—including a fine Heidelberg spectroscope, a col-
lection of Pliicker tubes for obtaining the spectra of gases and vapors
—prisms, lenses and other apparatus for projecting spectra on the
screen, as well as those used in studying the phenomena of the double
refraction and polarization of light, should also be mentioned. Eor
studying statical and dynamical electricity, magnetism, and electro-
magnetism there is a large number of electrical machines, and batteries
of different kinds, coils, helices, magnets, electro-magnets, galvanome-
ters, thermo-electric multipliers, Geisler tubes, rotators, magno-electric
and electro-magnetic machines, telegraph apparatus, telephones, etc.
The Chemical Laboratory
is fitted up with all the appliances necessary for the successful study
of General Chemistry and Chemical Analysis. As in the Physical
Cabinet, additions are constantly being made to the Laboratory, and
it will be the object of the authorities to make it in all its details as
complete and perfect as possible.
The Museum of Natural History,
embracing large and rare geological, mineralogical, zoological and
botanical collections, is as complete in all its arrangements as the
student could desire.
I— '	-.........................
PHYSICAL AND NATURAL SCIENCES.	35
The Mineralogical Cabinet
contains a large collection of minerals from all parts of the world. It
is especially rich in specimens illustrating the crystalline structure,
modes of occurrence, etc., of the various ores and minerals, and embraces
a large number of magnificent specimens of pellucid quartz crystals,
cairngorm stone, amethyst, agate, jasper, sardonyx, chalcedony, geodes
of various kinds, calcite of all the principal crystalline forms, amazon
stone, fluorspar, mica, tourmaline, beryl, dendrite, selenite, garnet, the
various ores of gold, silver, iron, copper, lead, zinc, as well as of the
other metals of rarer occurrence. For the practical study of the phys-
ical properties of minerals the student of mineralogy will find in this
collection all he could wish for. Besides this there is also a rich store
of specimens for blow-pipe analysis.
The Geological Cabinet
is very complete, both in the number and character of the specimens it
contains. It embraces fossils of all the geological formations, both of
this country and Europe. Among them are many unusually well
preserved, and of more than ordinary size. In a word it is furnished
with all the specimens that the student needs to make the study of
Geology easy and interesting.
Popular Lectures on the Physical and Natural Sciences
form one of the most interesting features in connection with the Scien-
tific Department. These are intended mainly for those students who
cannot or who do not wish to take up the Scientific Course, but who
nevertheless desire to have a general knowledge of the leading facts
and principles of the Physical and Natural Sciences. All these
lectures, especially those on Physics and Chemistry, are illustrated
experimentally, and to attain most effectually the object in view, the
best of apparatus and specimens, especially those designed for projec-
tion, have been secured. This method of popularizing science is, we
believe, peculiar to Notre Dame, not having yet been introduced, at
least as far as we are aware, in any other college in the country. All
who have had an opportunity of judging of its results speak of it with
praise and commendation.
A Card of Thanhs.
The Curator of the Museum most gratefully acknowledges dona-
tions, since the fire, of valuable specimens of Natural History from
the following persons:
Rev. D. A. Clarke, of Columbus, Ohio, a very complete amateur
geological and mineralogical collection.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., a number of valuable specimens of
gold and silver ores from the Black Hills.
Mr. D. J. Wile, Laporte, Ind., a very complete collection of Lake
Superior ores.
Hon. John Gibbons, Chicago, Ill., a large and valuable collection
of Iowa geodes.
Mr. T. Mendenhall, M. E., of Chicago, HL, a collection of specimens
from the Chicago and Silver Creek Mines, Col.
Mr. M. Foote, C. S. C., a collection of shells and minerals.
Mr. Thomas, Republic Mine, Mich., native copper, native silver,
and calcite.
Mrs. M. Lynch, Republic Mine, Mich., amethysts, calcite and
iron ore.
Master Guy Woodson, St. Louis, Mo., a collection of Wyoming
minerals.
Mr. Thomas Shortis, Toronto, Canada, a very valuable collection
of Canadian ores and minerals.
Mr. G. Deimel, Hancock, Mich., copper and silver ores.
Bro. Gabriel, C. S. C., a valuable collection of Indian relics.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., fossils of the Pennsylvania coal measures.
Bro. Theodore, C. S. 0., an interesting collection of iron ores.
Mr. H. C. Cassidy, Youngstown, Ohio, a collection of fossil plants
and fruits of the Ohio coal measures.
Dr. Schaffer, Keokuk, Iowa, a collection of geodes.
DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM.	37
Mr. P. Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.; Mr. J. Cronin, Calumet, Mich.;
Mr. Antoine Munch, Michigammi, Mich.; Mr. Joseph Gregory, Lake
Linden, Mich.; Mr. Ryan, Michigammi, Mich.; and Mr. John Mc-
Encroe, Ishpenning, Mich.; for valuable contributions of ores and
minerals from the Lake Superior region. To other kind friends, also,
who have in various ways rendered him material aid in increasing his
collections, the Curator returns his most sincere thanks.
An Appeal.
One of the greatest losses occasioned by the disastrous fire that
laid the College buildings in ashes was the almost total destruction
of the
MUSEUM: OU NVTUR4L ELISTOJE1Y.
All the valuable collections of years were consumed, only a small
collection of specimens that happened to be in an out-building being
spared. In order to repair this loss as far and as speedily as possible,
the Curator of the Museum respectfully solicits the aid and co-operation
of the friends and old students of Notre Dame,—of those especially
who live in mining districts, or where specimens of Natural History
can be readily obtained. He would be particularly obliged for
specimens of
MINSBAIjS.	FOSSILS,
SHELLS,	CORALS.
ALCOHOLIC PREPARATIONS,
INDIAN RELICS. ETC., ETC.
All collections, however small, will be thankfully received and
duly acknowledged in the columns of the Scholastic. All contribu-
tions should be sent to
Rev. J. A. ZAHM; C. S. C., Curator of Museum,
Notre Dame, Indiana.

All the branches necessary for a good legal education are included
in the Course. The Common Law System of Pleading and practice
is taught. The course of studies in this Department embraces, chiefly,
Constitutional and International Law, Municipal Law, Law of Con-
tracts, Equity Jurisprudence, Criminal Law, Evidence, Pleading and
Practice.
For the purpose of acquiring a practical as well as a theoretical
knowledge of the legal profession, the students shall, during the
Course, be required to argue cases, draw up pleadings, and conduct
Law and Chancery suits according to the rules and formalities of
regular courts of justice.
As it is a matter of the highest importance to a young lawyer that
on being admitted to the practice of his profession he should be able
to express himself clearly and fluently, full opportunity will be offered
for cultivating the art of public speaking. As one means of attaining
this end, and for the purpose of familiarizing the student with the
practical workings of his future profession, Moot Courts, under the
direction of a Professor, will be frequently held during the Course.
For the cultivation of other kinds of eloquence, still further facilities
are afforded in the various Literary and Debating Societies of the
University.
The entire Course for those commencing the study of the Law is in-
tended to be completed in two years, divided into four terms, which
correspond with those of the other departments of the University.
Every applicant for admission into this Department is expected to
have, at least, a complete English education. It is very desirable that
he should also have a Classical training before commencing the study
of the Law; nevertheless, those who may not possess this advantage
will, without extra charge, be offered ample opportunities for acquiring
a knowledge of the Classics while pursuing their legal studies.
Students intending to follow the Law Course may enter at any
time, but it is more advisable and profitable for them to present them-
selves at the beginning of a term.
COMMERCIAL DEPARTMENT.	39
The students will be required to pass an examination at the close of
each term, and to present an essay of not more than seven pages of
legal cap on some of the matters which they shall have seen, and fur-
thermore to give proof of proficiency in Rhetoric, English Literature
and Logic, before being allowed to graduate. The notes of the special
examinations and essays, as well as those of the application and gen-
eral standing of the members in class throughout the Law Course,
will be placed to their respective credits in the result of the final
examination for the degree of LL. B. The following comprises a list
of the authors generally read during the Course: Walker’s American
Law; Blackstone’s Commentaries; Parsons’ Contracts; Greenleaf’s
Evidence; Washburn on Real Property; Stephen on Pleading;
Equity Jurisprudence—Story; Constitutional Law ; Criminal Law—
Bishop.
It will be seen that the course requires two years’ study for gradua-
tion; it includes arithmetic, grammar and letter-writing, geography,
United States history, reading, spelling, penmanship, book-keeping,
and Commercial Law,—that is, a complete business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, especially the
great West in which we live, this Course is the most practical, and
one of the most important that an educational institution can afford.
Those therefore who have not the time or the means to take a com-
plete college course, in the classics and the sciences, would do well to
enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of study is
more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such studies as an in-
experienced student may fancy. The consistent training resulting
from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received the
most careful attention on the part of the officers and commercial
faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the graduates
40	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of this course a more complete business training than can be ob-
tained in any commercial college. Believing that a business educa-
tion includes something more than a mere knowledge of book-keep-
ing, and that a good education cannot be had in a few weeks, this
course has been extended over two years, the shortest time in which
the studies necessarily used in business life can be mastered. Should
a student desire during this period to take up any other studies
in which he may be interested, and for which he has time, he will
have liberty to do so. General history and linear drawing are
especially recommended to the students of this course. Many com-
mercial students find it also to their advantage to take up the study
of German or French, for which there are the amplest facilities.
A talented and studious young man may thus in the course of two
years find himself in possession of a most valuable practical educa-
tion, which will fit him to take his place in the front rank of educated
business men.
JTJINIOI?. YE^R.
Sessions.
1	Arithmetic—Same as First Year Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Year Preparatory in
Classical Course.
3	Geography—The amount included, in both Sessions of Collegiate Prepara-
tory Course (eclectic series).
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Col-
legiate Preparatory Course.—Hassard.
5	Reading and Orthography.
6	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
Eirst Session.
1	Arithmetic—Same as First Session of Second Year Preparatory in Clas-
sical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.	'
3	Orthography.
4	Book-Keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory sets by Double Entry.—
Notre Dame System.—Tong.
5	. Penmanship.	‘
Second SSession.
1	Arithmetic—(Completed)—As in 2d Session Second Year Preparatory.
MODERN LANGUAGES.	41
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory
in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-Keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc. — Notre Name
System.—Tong.
5	Commercial Law.—Laws of Business—Parsons.
6	Penmanship.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces the
following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:—Prepar-
atory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry;
1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of Merchandize on Pri-
vate Account; 2d Series, On account of others; 3d Series, Buying and
Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th Series, Importing and Export-
ing on private account, on account of others, and account of ourselves
and others in company; 5th Series, Receiving and forwarding Mer-
chandise, the management and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts,
Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting
and Paying Bills of Exchange, Banking—Private and Joint Stock—
Steamboating, Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Earming,
Mechanics’ Accounts. The whole Course illustrating the opening,
conducting and closing of stock and partnership books—gaining and 1
losing business, etc., etc. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Daw.
Particular attention is paid to the explanation of the Law of Nego-
tiable paper.

GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
JPirst; Session.
1 Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—Fifty Exercises.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
Second Session.
1 Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—From the 50th to the
lOOdth Exercise.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
42	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND YJEAlR.
ITii'st Session.
1	Ahn’s Second German Book—From lOOdth to the 150th Exercise.
2	Ahn’s First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
Second Session,
1	Ahn’s Second German Book—From the 150th Exercise to the end.
2	Ahn’s First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
THIRD -SEAB.
UTix’sh Session,
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—100 Exercises.
2	Drittes Lesebuch,
3	Sommeb’s Practische Auesatzlehre, No. 1.
Second Session.
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—To the end.
2	Drittes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Pbactische Auesatzlehre, No. 2.
FOURTH YJEAJEU
First Session,
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Viertes Lesebuch.
3	Sommeb’s Pbactische Auesatzlehre, No. 3.
Second Session. *
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the end.
2	Viertes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Pbactische Auesatzlehre, No. 4.
4	Compositions, and Introduction to German Classics.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two the
German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
* —
MODERN LANGUAGES.	43
FRENCH.
FIRST YJELkTi.
Thirst; Session.
1	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Erv as’ Elementary French Reader—Twenty pages.
3	Orthography.
Second Session.
1	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty-nine Lessons—
Regular Verbs.
2	De Fivas’ Reader—To the end.
3	Orthography.
SECOND YEAR,
juirst; Session.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty-five lessons, and from page 261 to
page 357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet’s Literature.
3	Letter-Writing.
Second Session.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to end of First Part,
from Page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular. Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.	’
3	Exercises in Composition.
TEIIJai} YEAR.
TTxrst; Session-
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Etymology.
2	Litterature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
Second Session,
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Telemaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other Modern
Languages.
r

Post-Graduate Course.
The Students in this Course occupy themselves with Philosophy,
History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law, Medicine and
Civil Engineering may be optional studies of the Course.
We trust to see our Law Department better and better attended
year after year. We have every reason to be proud of the young men
who each year have sought the classic retirement of Notre Dame to
pursue their Law Studies. We shall endeavor to make their sojourn
among us an agreeable one, and give them every facility for study.
Civil Engineering.
This important Course is now thoroughly established, and will afford
our advanced students the opportunity of fitting themselves for the
practice of the eminent profession whose name it bears.
Languages.
«
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of which is so
frequent and necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German Language—the classes of which are so numerously
attended—has been taught by five Professors during the past scholas-
tic year. The number of German students attending the University
is becoming greater every year. The French Language—though
more especially the language of the Collegiate Course—will be of
great advantage to the Scientific students. Other languages—such as
Italian and Spanish—may be taught when required.
This branch invites the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. The Telegraph Department is fully organized
SPECIALTIES.
45
and is placed under the management of a skilful electrician. Notre
Dame is now in direct communication with South Bend and the rest
of the world by'electric wires.
Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to study for the Medical profession will find
opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Studies in this
Department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy and Surgery. As
a Preparatory Course, that which is given here, under L. Neyron,
M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de Medicine, Lyons, leaves nothing to
be desired.
Drawing and Painting,
The University enjoys means adequate to all demands in this
branch. It possesses a large number of models in all sorts of drawing,
a fine Studio, and vigilant and zealous teachers of the art. Painting
will, we trust, soon be one of the most popular branches of Art taught
at Notre Dame.
Music.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has able
Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conservatory
system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent Quartette,
and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are some of the leading
features of the Musical Department.
Vocal music, which has been somewhat neglected during the past
year, will in future receive special care. We call the attention of
our students and patrons to this favorite and useful branch of music,
which is now so deservedly popular.
Astronomical Observatory.
A temporary Astronomical Observatory has deen erected, in which
the fine instrument presented by the Emperor Napoleon has been
placed. The studies of the class of Astronomy are now rendered
practically interesting.
Libraries.	.
The College Library, which before the fire contained upwards of
thirteen thousand volumes, now numbers six thousand. These, of
course, form merely the nucleus of what the College authorities wish
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the library to be. It was reorganized at the beginning of the scholas-
tic year with the few volumes that had been saved from the fire, and
friends of the institution through the country have liberally responded
to the call for donations. Among the generous doners were Mr. Mar-
shall Anderson, Circleville, Ohio ; Miss A. Hemmenway, Burlington,
Vermont; Mrs. Charlotte Linderman, Cummingsville, Ohio; John
Murphy & Co., Publishers, Baltimore; B. Herder, Publisher, St. Louis ;
Benziger Bros., Publishers, New York; John Allyn & Co., Boston;
Appleton & Co., New York; Ginn & Heath, Boston ; and Harper &
Brothers, New York; and many others, to all of whom the College
authorities take this opportunity to express their sincere thanks. All
contributions to this library should be addressed to the Librarian,
Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Lemonnier Circulating Library, for the use of the students of
Notre Dame, was recommenced last August with about five hundred
volumes. Thanks to the numerous friends of Notre Dame this library
now numbers more than three thousand two hundred choice English
works. Previous to the fire which destroyed the old college buildings
it contained ten thousand volumes. Donations of books, pamphlets,
periodicals, etc., are respectfully solicited from the friends of education.
All donations should be addressed to the Librarian, J. F. Edwards,
Notre Dame, Ind., or to the Lemonnier Library Association.
Lecture Course.
There are a great many students who, owing to different causes,
progress but slowly in the acquisition of knowledge in the class-room,
but who in the lecture-hall advance most rapidly, whilst alb gain a
more comprehensive and practical perception of the various branches
of Science when clearly and concisely elucidated by the discourse of an
expert. The importance of Lectures has, therefore, never been over-
looked at Notre Dame, but of late the authorities of the University
have been led to devote particular attention to the organizing and
developing of Lecture Courses on all the more important studies of
the Institution. Henceforth, therefore, students may expect to have
every facility, without any interruption of classes, to assist at regular
Lectures on Philosophical, Historical, Literary and Scientific subjects.
In this respect, the success reached during the past few years forms
an epoch in our educational training, and there is every reason for
believing that the future will witness still greater triumphs.
From September i8jg^ to June 1880.

Arnold, William H............................District of Columbia.
Ashe, Joseph H. C............................Tennessee.
Adams, Robert Charles.....................Michigan.
Anderson, Robert M........................Ohio.
Ackerman, Hubert..........................Indiana.
Ayres, William............................Ohio.
Browne, Joseph F............................Texas.
Buerger, Anton J.............................Iowa.
Byrne, Thomas P ............................Indiana.
Bender, John R..................................Illinois.
Burns, M. James.................................Michigan.
Burmeister, Adolph..............................Illinois.
Boose, John..................................Ohio.
Burns, Michael T.............................District of Columbia.
Brinkman, Charles			Indiana.
Boulger, William			Indiana.
Berteling, John			Ohio.
Bodine, Arch			Kentucky.
Byrnes, Timothy			Illinois.
Bachmann, Henry			Indiana.
Bloom, Frank W			Indiana.
Bannister, James W			  ...Indiana.
Becker, Frank			Iowa.
Brice, James			Iowa.
Burger, Anthony J			    .Pennsylvania.
Bell, Frank M			Ohio.
Brennan, Frank			Massachusetts.
Brady, John G			Alabama.
Butler, Gregory			Illinois.
Butler, Victor G			Illinois.
Bourdon, Edward H			Indiana.
Brown, Frank W			New	York.
Cooney, William			Illinois.
Castenado, Gardner			Louisiana.
Courtney, James 			District	of Columbia.
Courtney, Joseph			District	of Columbia.
Coolbaugh, William			New	Mexico.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Carter, Frank L................................Ohio.
Conlan, Thomas.................................Wisconsin.
Casey, Bernard ................................Pennsylvania.
Casey, John....................................Pennsylvania.
Connolly, William..............................Iowa.
Cabel, John ...................................Indiana.
Caren, Alexander...............................Ohio.
Croarkin, Edward...............................Michigan.
Ciements, Louis................................Kentucky.
Cole, Louis....................................Indiana.
Clarke, George E...............................Illinois.
Campbell, Theodore	B........................Kentucky.
Campbell, Robert S.............................Kentucky.
Claggett, Bernard J............................Illinois.
Chaves, Jose...................................New Mexico.
Cox, William M.................................Ohio.
Clarke, Thomas Frank...........................Ohio.
Coghlin, Louis W...............................Ohio.
Coghlin, Amadeus M.............................Ohio.
Carpenter, John E..............................Ohio.
Carrer, Joseph.................................Indiana.
Conyne, Arthur.................................Illinois.
Cleary, William S..............................Kentucky.
Coleman, James ..............................District of Columbia.
Cocke, Thomas H..............................Tennessee.
Campau, Alexis J............................Michigan.
Campau, Edwin C ............................Michigan.
Dunn, Harry P........
Dulany, Hector B....
Delany, James........
Duginger, Louis H...
Deehan, Hugh.........
Dimick, Lucius D....
Droste, Charles......
Donahoe, Daniel....
Donnelly, George H..
Devitt, James........
Devitt, Henry........
Dwenger, Joseph H..
Dering, Sherman......
Dever, Francis.......
Dempsy, John.........
Devitt, Thomas.......
Davis, John Edward
Danahy, Daniel.......
Dobson, Alfred A....
Delany, J ames H. ..
De Haven, George W
. .Alabama.
..Illinois.
. .Pennsylvania.
..Illinois.
. .Pennsylvania.
..Illinois.
.. Ohio.
..Illinois.
..Illinois.
..Illinois.
..Illinois.
..Indiana.
.. Indiana.
. .Kentucky.
..Iowa.
..Illinois.
..Michigan.
..Illinois.
. .Illinois.
..Wisconsin.
. .Illinois.
Ewell, Edward J............................
.Wisconsin.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
49
Evers, Luke J.................................New York.
English, Michael..............................Iowa.
Esmer, Edward W.C.............................Kansas.
Echlin, Charles C.............................Colorado.
Flynn, Thomas F...
Fogarty, Edward F
Falvey, Michael D.
.Iowa.
Pennsylvania.
.Indiana.
Fleming, Robert E..............................Kentucky.
Foster, George.................................Dakota.
Farrelly, Owen J...............................Illinois.
Farrelly, Frederick B..........................Illinois.
Foote, Henry G.................................Iowa.
Fletcher, Patrick..............................Missouri.
Gordon, Joseph.................................  .Illinois.
Garrick, Charles J..............................Illinois.
Garrity, Joseph H..............................  Illinois.
Garrity, Frank J.................................Illinois.
Guthrie, John....................................Iowa.
Grever, Frank....................................Ohio.
Gibbons, John A..................................Iowa.
Glade, Fred....................................  Illinois.
Gwynne, Henry....................................Illinois.
Gaines, Edward H..................................Michigan.
Gooley, Edward................................  .Indiana.
Gregory, Hiram C.................................Indiana.
Gettings, Ivo. J................................Illinois.
Gallagher, Edward J..............................Ohio.
Groenewold, Fred.................................Ohio.
Gibert, Leon W...................................Louisiana.
Gall, Edmund.....................................Indiana.
Herrick, Marcus E............................Michigan.
Hierb, August................................Iowa.
Hintze, Albert ..............................Wisconsin.
Hermann, Joseph..............................Iowa.
Humbert, Felix...............................Illinois.
Halloran, James...............................Indiana.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Kentucky.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Ohio.
Massachusetts.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Ohio.
Kentucky.
Hayes, William.............................
Hellebusch, Alphonse.......................
Homan, Joseph..............................
Hayden, Arthur.............................
Hagan. Charles.............................
Howard, Edward A...........................
Hindeling, Theodore........................
Hanavin, William...................-.......
Harrington, Dennis.........................
Hartman, John T............................
Hassett, William J.........................
Henry, Joseph F............................
Hamilton, William..........................
50
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Henoch, Solomon.............................Indiana.
Hagan, Eugene L............................Kentucky.
Howe, Harry T...............................Ohio.
Hunt, John Jr...............................Wisconsin.
Hesse, William..............................Wisconsin.
Harris, Charles Gilbert.....................Kentucky.
Hagan, Patrick J............................Ohio.
Johnsee, Frank..............................Tennessee.
Johnson, James..............................Tennessee.
Jordan, John H..............................Michigan.
Jarboe, Charles.............................Missouri.
Jones, William Grant........................Ohio.
Johnson, Robert Lee.........................Kentucky.
Johnson, Robert C...........................Ohio.
Johnson, Charles E..........................Ohio.
Joyce, Patrick..............................Indiana.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Missouri.
Iowa.
Indiana.
Ontario, Canada.
Ontario, Canada.
Indiana.
Iowa.
District of Columbia.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Kentucky.
Keena, John..................................
Kelly, John M................................
Kleine, Fred.................................
Kinney, John.................................
Kelly, Joseph R..............................
Kurz, Jacob..................................
Kitz, Harry..................................
Keenan, Alexander............................
Keenan, Robert...............................
Kuhn, John...................................
Kinsella, Frank C............................
Kelly, Aloysius..............................
Kavanagh, Thomas.............................
Knight, George C.............................
Keen, Leslie S...............................
Kirtley, William.............................
Karins, Charles II...........................
Lebourgeois, Raouel..........................Louisi ana.
Leach, Frank..............................  Michigan.
Litmer, Edward...............................Ohio.
Larkins, Joseph A................................West	Virginia.
Lent, Alpha..................................Indiana.
Larkins, Patrick B............................Indiana.
Livingston, Samuel............................Indiana.
Lynch, Frank J............................... Ohio.
Lanham, R. F  .................................Kentucky.
Lebeau, Ernest...............................Illinois.
Lynch, Eugene D..............................  .Indiana.
Mattes, Frank...................................Iowa.
Marlett, James..................................Mississippi.
Mergentheim, Aaron..............................Illinois.
Morgan, John L..................................Indiana.
Molitor, Edward ................................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OE STUDENTS.
51
Murphy, Eugene................................Connecticut.
Marantette, Louis.............................Michigan.
Maguire, Philip...............................Kentucky.
Murphy, John..................................Illinois.
Maloney, Martin...............................Dakotah Ter.
Megee, William................................Indiana.
Mug, John F...................................Indiana.
Mueller, Charles F............................Wisconsin.
Meister, John H...............................Illinois.
Manning, Alexander S..........................Kentucky.
Malone, James.... ............................Michigan.
Meredith, Elm er..............................Indiana.
Mathers, Lafayette............................Illinois.
Molander, Gustav Adolph.......................Illinois.
Murphy, Williiam J............................Wisconsin.
Moore, Clyde B................................Indiana.
Muir, Samuel C................................Kentucky.
Mattingly, Abe................................Kentucky.
Metz, Henry...................................Illinois.
Metz, Charles.................................Illinois.
Morrison, Frank P.............................Michigan.
Mayer, Albert.................................Indiana.
Miller, William...............................Illinois.
McCormack, Patrick............................Michigan.
McDermott, Charles J..........................Ohio.
McGorrisk, William B..........................Iowa.
McGorrisk, Edward W...........................Illinois.
McRae, John D ...............................Kentucky.
McPhilips, Frank.............................Michigan.
McErlain, John J.............................Indiana.
Me Ate$. Walter..............................Kentucky.
McCarthy, William J...........................Missouri.
McCarthy, John E.............................Indiana.
McCarthy, Robert E...........................Indiana.
McNamara, John...............................Iowa.
McGrath, John B .............................New York.
McEniry, Matthew J...........................Illinois.
McIntyre, John A.............................Wisconsin.
McGrath, Thomas F............................Illinois.
McGrath, Charles H...........................Illinois.
McEnerny, John O.............................Ohio.
Norfleet,’ James................... .............North Carolina.
Noonan, James H..................................Massachusetts.
Nelson, Peter P..................................Illinois.
Nelson, Nicholas J...............................Illinois.
Nester, George...................................Michigan.
Newton, James Alexander..........................Kentucky.
Noble, Henry H...................................Ohio.
O’Malley, William Vincent.........................Illinois.
Osher, Joseph......................................Illinois.
52	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
O’Byrne, George................................Pennsylvania.
Orrick, Eugene C...............................Mississippi.
O’Connor, Robert E.............................Illinois.
O’Neill, Joseph................................Utah.
Otis, Elmer A..................................Dakotah	Ter.
O’Donnell, Edward Nugent.......................Indiana.
O’Brien, Robert................................Ohio.
Orr, George....................................Ohio.
Olds, William Marshal..........................Ohio.
O’Connell, John F..............................Iowa.
O’Reilly, John.................................Wisconsin.
Oatman, Eugene L...............................Illinois.
Payro, Armand..................................Louisiana.
Perry, Charles F...............................Illinois.
Pomy, Reinhard.................................Nebraska.
Pike, George....................................Kentucky.
Proctor, Lincoln...............................Indiana.
Perea, Jacob...................................New Mexico.
Philips, Frank B...............................Indiana.
Pollock, Benton H..............................Iowa.
Perley, Park...................................Arkansas.
Parrett, R. M..................................Indiana.
Palmer, George.................................Michigan.
Quinn, Francis A...............................Illinois.
Quinn, Gerald..................................Illinois.
Rheimbold, Aloysius............................Ohio.
Roberts, Charles C.............................Indiana.
Rietz, Charles.................................Ill inois.
Rietz, William.................................Michigan.
Rietz, Alexander...............................Illinois.
Reeve, Frank W.................................Michigan.
Riley, Joseph..................................Ohio.
Rettig, Frank J................................Indiana.
Russell, Richard...............................Wisconsin.
Rhodius, George.......................,........Indiana.
Ruppe, J........................................Michigan.
Rasche, Patrick Henry..........................Utah.
Ryan, James....................................Illinois.
Rose, Henry....................................Indiana.
Rose, Clinton..................................Indiana.
Rock, Albert S.................................Illinois.
Rogers, Julius.................................Ohio.
Ryan, William..................................Illinois.
Reardon, Walter................................Illinois.
Rohrback, Albert...............................Illinois.
Randolph, Oakly................................Indiana.
Semmes, Roger...............................    .Mississippi.
Scholfield, Warren.............................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	53
Spaulding, Leo W................................Illinois.
Strawn, John....................................Illinois.
Schobey, James K................................Illinois.
Solon, James....................................Illinois.
Sugg, Edward G..................................Illinois.
Sugg, George....................................Illinois.
Smith, Logan....................................Kentucky.
Shea, Patrick...................................Indiana.
Stitzel, Louis William..........................Ohio.
Simms, Thomas................................... .Kentucky.
Spalding, Samuel T..............................Kentucky.
Seeger, John....................................Iowa.
Smith, J. Sydney................................Illinois.
.Stewart, Robert D............................  Pennsylvania.
Summers, Thomas D...............................Indiana.
Start, J. William...............................Illinois.
Snee, Harry.....................................Illinois.
Scanlan, John...................................Illinois.
Schmueckle, Albert..............................Indiana.
Scheid, Frank C.................................Illinois.
Simms, John.....................................Kentucky.
Smith, Frank C..................................Ohio.
Smith, Joseph S.................................Ohio.
Spalding, Josephs...............................Kentucky.
Stockwell, Adelbert.............................Indiana.
Simms, Harry C.................................Illinois.
Simms, Reuben C................................Illinois.
Schneider, Conrad...............................Illinois.
Smith, James J..................................Illinois.
Taylor, Daniel G...............................Missouri.
Tourtillotte, George...........................Ohio.
Terry, Samuel P................................Indiana.
Thiele, Charles................................Indiana.
Tinley, Charles................................Kentucky.
Terry, Percy...................................Indiana.
Thompson, William M............................Illinois.
Tate, Ambrose..................................Louisiana.
Vedder, Martin.................................N ebr aska.
Van Dusen, Charles B...........................Michigan.
VanMourick, Anthony............................Michigan.
Van Mourick, Gerard............................Michigan.
Vogel, Philip..................................Ohio.
Woodson, Guy...................................Wyoming.
Weitzel, John..................................Kentucky.'
Whelan, Christopher............................Illinois.
Wall, Frank....................................Kentucky.
W eisert, Frank................................Indiana.
Wolf, Max......................................Indiana.
Wilder, James B................................Illinois.
54
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Weny, Nicholas..................................Indiana.
Wilson, Warren..................................Indiana.
Wittwer, George.................................Indiana.
Wathen, Henry.................................  Kentucky.
Wright, Henry...................................Illinois.
Welty, Charles J................................Illinois.
Young, Louis....................................Indiana.
Young, Charles.................................Indiana.
Zekind, Bertie.....................................Michigan.
Zeis, Frank.......................................Illinois.
Zahm, Albert......................................Indiana.
Zeien, Thomas.....................................Iowa.
Zarley, Charles H.......'.........................Illinois.

EELIQIOUS, LITEEAET, SCIENTIFIC, etc.
RELIGIOUS.
Archeonfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the Senior
Department, has for its object the propagation of the Haith, the practice
oi devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the cultivation of a relig-
ious spirit among its members. It was established in 1845.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. B. McGrath, President.
P. J. Hagan, Vice-President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Rec. Secretary.
W. J. Murphy, Cor. Secretary.
S. T. Spalding-, Treasurer.
R. E. O’Brien, Censor.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C.S.C., Director,
J. B. McGrath, President.
A. J. Burger, Vice-President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Rec. Secretary.
J. B. Berteling, Cor. Secretary.
Geo. E. Clarke, Treasurer.
M. J. McEniry, Censor.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
55
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
This Confraternity is composed of the students of the Junior Depart-
ment. It has for its object the propagation of the Faith, the practice
of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the cultivation of a relig-
ious spirit among its members.
OFFICERS,
First Session.	Second Session.
Very Bev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Director.
Bev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
M. J. Burns, 1st Vice-President.
John A. Gibbons, 2d Vice-President.
W. J. McCarthy, Bec. Secretary.
A. S. Bock, Cor. Secretary.
George Ork, Treasurer.
A. A. Caren, 1st Censor.
F. H. Grever, 2d Censor.
F. Scheid, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Boger Semmes, Standard-Bearer.
Bev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
J. A. Gibbons, 1st Vice-President.
M.	J. Burns, 2d Vice-President.
Frank Grever, Bec. Secretary.
N.	Weny, Cor. Secretary.
E. Otis, Treasurer.
A.	A. Caren, 1st Censor.
J. Browne, 2d Censor.
B.	Fleming, Sergeant-at-Arms.
A. Hellebusch, Standard-Bearer.
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded Sept. 29,1874, by Very Bev. Edward Sorin,
Superior-General, 0. S. 0. It is composed of the students of the Minim
Department. It has for its object the practice of devotion to the Guar-
dian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety among its members, and
to provide the Church with the servers required at Mass} Vespers, and
other Church offices. In 1875, Very Bev. Father Sorin obtained for this
Association many special Indulgences from the late glorious Pius IX.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Very Bev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Very Bev. Alexis Granger, C.S. C.
Assistant-Director.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Albert, C.S. C., Promoter.
D. G. Taylor, Vice-President.
H. A. Snee, Secretary.
J. S. Courtney, Treasurer.
Jas. M. Courtney, Librarian.
Guy Woodson, 1st Censor.
F. P. Mattes, 2d Censor.
W. F. Hanavin, Standard-Bearer.
Second Session.
Very Bev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Very Bev. Alexis Granger, C. S. C.,
Assistant-D irector.
T. McNamara, 0. S. C., President.
Bro. Albert, C. S. C., Promoter.
D. G. Taylor, Vice-President.
C. J. Droste, Secretary.
J. S. Courtney, Treasurer.
H. A. Snee, Librarian.
Jas. Courtney, 1st Censor.
A. J. Campau, 2d Censor.
H. P. Dunn, Standard-Bearer.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of which
this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to children through-
56	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
out the Christian world to contribute their share towards the redemp-
tion of Pagan children from the darkness of heathenism. The monthly
contributions are small, but the aggregate is considerable—while thous-
ands of children are by this means trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Bro. Albert, C. S C., President.
H. P. Dunn, Vice-President.
J. J. Smith, Secretary.
M. W. Olds, Treasurer.
Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Director.
G £ Dos” “OUBICK’ £ Censors'
7aTTIV’ Tibrarians-
50 Members.
LITERARY.
Associated Alumni,
OFFICERS, ETC., 1880-81.
Honorary President—Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.
President—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., ’52.
1st Vice-President—Wm. Ivers, ’66.
2d Vice-President—Rev. D. A. Clarke, ’70.
Secretary—F. B. Devoto, ’76.
Treasurer—J. A. Lyons, ’62.
Historian—J. J. Coleman, ’77.
Orator—Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, ’75.
Alternate—Jno. P. McHugh, ”72.
Poet—T. E. Howard, ’62.
Alternate—Rev. T. E. Walsh.
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851 (originally under the
name of the St. Aloysius’ Literary and Historical Society), is the cultiv-
ation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate knowledge of his-
tory. It is essentially a literary and debating Society, and its members
cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
A. J. Burger, Vice-President.
J. B. McGrath, Rec. Secretary.
R. F. Russell, Cor. Secretary.
W. B. McGorrisk, Treasurer.
Wm H. Arnold, I
Jno. P. Kinney, j Censors.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
J. B. McGrath, Vice-President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Rec. Secretary.
A. J. Burger, Cor. Secretary.
J. B. Berteling, Treasurer.
W. H. Arnold, 1st Censor.
Geo. Sugg, 2d Censor.
St. Cecilia Ph.ilomath.ean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the same
time, a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its exercises
include Public Reading, Declamations, Essays, Debates, Dramatic Ex-
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
57
excises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—the elite of the
Junior Department. The plays acted upon the stage for the purpose
of bringing out the elocutionary powers of the members, are written
especially for them, and are intended to increase the love of virtue and
righteousness.
Officers.—First Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C.S. C., Genl. Critic.
Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., Assistant-
Director.
J. A. Lyons, President.
J. F. Edwards, I -n .. - _
Bro. Leander, C.S.C.,) Ihonioteis.
T. E. Howard, ) T
A. J. Stage, f Lecturers.
W. J. McCarthy, 1st Vice-President.
J. A. Gibbons, 2d Vice-President.
M. J. Burns, Historian.
A. A. Caren, Rec. Secretary.
F. H. Grever, Cor. Secretary.
A. Rietz, Treasurer.
F.	A. Quinn, 1st Monitor.
A. J. Buerger, 2d Monitor.
G.	A. Orr, 1st Censor.
E.	C. Orrick, 2d Censor.
F.	B. Phillips, Librarian.
R. E. McCarthy, Sergeant-at-Arms.
J. P. O’Neil, Prompter.
J. L. Morgan, Marshal.
G.	C. Foster, |-r, „	,	„
E. Otis J Property Managers.
C. A. Tinley, Clerk of Moot Court.
Officers —Second Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S.C., Director.
Rev. T.E. Walsh, C. S. C., Genl. Critic.
Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., Assistant-
Director.
J. A. Lyons, President.
J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
T. E. Howard, Lecturer on Political
Economy.
A. J. Stage. Moderator.
J. A. Gibbons, 1st Vice-President.
W. J. McCarthy, 2d Vice-President.
M.	J. Burns, Historian.	.
A. A. Caren, Rec. Secretary.
C. A. Tinley, Cor. Secretary.
N.	Weny, Orpheonic Branch.
J. P. O’Neil, Treasurer.
F. H. Grever, 1st Monitor.
F. A. Quinn, 2d Monitor.
E. C. Orrick, 1st Censor.
E.	A. Otis, 2d Censor.
F.	B. Phillips, Librarian.
J. L. Morgan, Sergeant-at-Arms.
A. J Burger, Marshal.
R. E. Fleming, Prompter.
G.	C. Foster, )
E. G. Sugg, >• Property Managers.
J. Homan, )
W. Thompson, Clerk of the Moot Court.
40 Members.
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultivation of the
Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
J. B. McGrath, Vice-President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Rec. Secretary.
F. W. Bloom, Cor. Secretary.
J. B. Berteling, Treasurer.
Thos. Simms, Historian.
D. Donahoe, 1st Censor.
Geo. Sugg, 2d Censor.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
J. B. McGrath, Vice-President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Rec. Secretary.
F. W. Bloom. Cor. Secretary.
J. B. Berteling, Treasurer.
Thos. Simms, Historian.
D. Donahoe, 1st Censor.
Geo. Sugg, 2d Censor.
58	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
This Society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English Compo-
sition and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, 0. S. 0., Assistant-
Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President
J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, 0. S. 0., Promoter.
M.	A. J. Vedder, 1st Vice-President.
N.	J. Nelson, 2d Vice-President.
G. 0. Castenado, Rec. Secretary.
J. M. Boose, Cor. Secretary.
Officers.—First Session.
J. Seegek, Treasurer.
F. Becker, 1st Censor.
J. Larkin, 2d Censor.
P. P. Nelson. Sergeant-at-Arms
H. Devitt, Marshal.
J. Devitt, Librarian.
J. Gordon, 1st Costumer.
G. Rhodius, 2d Costumer.
W. start, Historian.
0. J. Farrelly, Prompter.
Officers.—Second Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Assistant-
Director.
J. A. Lyons, President.
J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
N. J. Nelson, 1st Vice-President.
M. A. J. Vedder, 2d Vice-President.
G. C. Castenado, Rec. Secretary.
G. Rhodius, Cor. Secretary.
J. Seeger, Treasurer.
F. Becker, 1st Censor.
J. A. Larkin, 2d Censor.
W. Coughlin, Sergeant-at-Arms.
P. Fletcher, 1st Costumer.
H. Foote, 2d Costumer.
W. Cleary, Marshal.
G. Gordon, Prompter.
30 Members.
St. Edward Columbian Literary Club.
The Columbians were founded March 25, 1873, by the late Rev. A.
Lemonnier, C. S. 0., for the benefit of the Commercial students.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., President.
J. A. Lyons, A. M, Hon. President.
A.	J. Stage, A. M., Dramatic Reader.
Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.,	1 Prompt-
Bro. Marcellinus, C. 8. C., ) ers.
S. T. Spaulding, Vice-President.
Thos. W. Simms, Rec. Secretary.
Alx. Keenan, Cor. Secretary.
Danl. Donahoe, Treasurer.
Robt. Keenan, Prompter.
Wm. Connolly, )	_
B.	J. Claggett, ) Censors-
Pat. Larkin, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Robt. O’Brien, Marshal.
Second Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B.
J. A. Lyons, A. M.
A. J. Stage, A. M.
Bro. Theodore, C. S. C.,	) Prompt-
Bro Marcellinus, C. S. C., j ers.
Thos. W. Simms, Vice-President.
Danl. Donahoe. Rec. Secretary.
B. J. Claggett, Cor. Secretary.
Robt. Keenan, Prompter.
Patrick Larkin, 1
Robt. Campbell, J Censors.
Thomas Conlan, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Wm. Connolly, Treasurer.
Robt. O’Brien, Marshal.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES. ■
59
Lemonnier Library Association.
The Circulating Library was founded in 1872, for the use of the
students of Notre Dame, bj^ the late Kev. Lather Lemonnier, fourth
President of the University. All but two or three hundred of the ten
thousand volumes it contained were consumed by the late fire. Ke-
founded August, 1879, by the present Librarian. Donations of books
are solicited from the students and their friends. Address Lemonnier
Library Association, Notre Dame, Ind.
OFFICERS.
} Honorary Directors.
J. F. Edwards, President and Librarian.
W. Arnold, Vice-President.
J. B. Berteling, Secretary.
BOARD OF MANAGERS.
G. Donnelly,
C. Brinkman,
F. Philips,
W. Jones,
A. Mergentheim,
G. Khodius,
H. Bose,
F. Gbever,
A. Buergeb, Jr.
J. Smith,
B. Anderson,
G. Castenado,
W. McGorrisk,
Columbian Dramatic Society.
J. F. Edwards, President.
R. O’Brien, Vice-President.	J. P. Brice, Cor. Secretary,
G. H. Donnelly, Rec. Secretary. A. Zahm, Treasurer.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by Kev. T. E. Walsh, 0. S. C., and
Mr. T. McNamara, 0. S. C., on November 15th, 1877, is the study of
Elocution, and the cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
First Session.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh. C. S. 0., Assistant?
Director.
Rev. C. Kelly, C. S. C., Promoter.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
D. G. Taylor, 1st Vice-President.
G. J. Van Mourick, 2d Vice-President.
C.	J. Droste, Secretary.
M. S. Olds, Treasurer.
G. E. Tourtillotte, Librarian.
OFFICERS.
Second Session.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Assistant-
Director.
Rev. C. Kelly, C. S. C., Promoter.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
D.	S. Taylor, 1st Vice-President.
Guy Woodson, 2d Vice-President.
C. J. Droste, Secretary.
M. S. Olds, Treasurer.
A. J. Camp Au, Librarian.
60	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Guy Woodson, Promoter.
E.	A. Howard, Marshal.
F.	P. Mattes, 1st Monitor.
J. H. Dwenger, 2d Monitor.
J. B. Bannister, 1st Censor.
H. A. Snee, 2d Censor.
A. J. Kelly, 3d Censor.
F.	B. Farrelly, Sergeant-at-Arms.
J. S. Courtney, Prompter.
E. A. Howard, Marshal.
G.	C. Knight, 1st Monitor.
J. T. Henry, 2d Monitor.
G.	J. Van Mourick, 1st Censor.
H.	A. Snee, 2d Censor.
J. T. Smith, 3d Censor.
C. C. Echlin, Sergeant-at-Arms.
40 Members.
MUSICAL.
University Orchestra.
Bro. Leopold, C. S. C., Director.
1st Violin—F. W. Bloom, A. J. Burger, B. J. Claggett. 2d Violin—Joseph
Smith, F. Kinsella. Viola—Bro. Basil, C. S. C. Violoncello—R. S. Campbell.
Double Bass—J. J. Coleman, F. B. Devoto. Flute—F. Grever, A. Hellebusch.
Clarionet—Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C. Cornets—L. J. Evers, B. J. Berteling.
Trombone—Rev. F. Frere, C. S. C.
Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
E Flat Sopranos—L. J. Evers, J. B. Berteling, J. H. Delaney. B Flat Cornets
—G. Clarke, F. X. Wall, Robert E. Keenan. Solo—E Flat Alto—F. W. Bloom.
1st E Flat Alto—T. McNamara. 2d E Flat Alto—G. H. Donnelly. 1st B Flat
Tenor—B. J. Claggett. 2d B Flat Tenor—A. J. Burger. B Flat Baritone—T.
W. Simms. 1st B Flat Bass—F. B. Devoto. 2d E Flat Bass—Rev. P. Kollop,
C. S. C. 2d B Flat Contra Bass—John T. Coleman. Tenor Drum—C. Zarley.
Bass Drum—C. Hagan. Cymbals—W. H. Arnold.
Corby Glee Club.
1st Tenors—J. B. McGrath, A. J. Burger, L. J. Evers, C. Zarley. 2d Tenors—
J. J. Coleman, J. B. Berteling. 1st Bass—T. W. Simms, F. B. Devoto. 2d Bass
—F. W. Bloom, B. J. Claggett, R. Campbell.
ATHLETIC.
Boating Club,
OFFICERS.
V. Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,	A. J. Burger, Secretary.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., j Directors, j Kinney, Treasurer.
Rev. P. W. Condon, C. S. C., President. M. J. McEniry, Capt. “Minnehaha.”
J. J. Coleman, Commodore.	D.F.Harrington, Capt. “Hiawatha.”
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
Hon. Edmund E. Dunne, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Degree of Master of A rts was conferred on
W. P. Breen, Port Wayne, Ind.
J. J. Codeman, Ardee, Ireland.
J. P. McHugh, Lafayette, Ind.
Maurice E. Egan, New York, N. Y.
Andrew Morrissey, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Master of Sciences was conferred on
E. Devoto, Salt Lake City, Utah.
John G-. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
J. B. McG-rath, New York City.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Anthony J. Burger, Beading, Pa.
John B. Berteling, Cincinnati, Ohio.
John P. Kinney, Bevenna, Ohio.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
Arthur J. Stage, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
T. W. Simms, Springfield, Ky.
E. X. Wald, Springfield, Ky.
D.	Donahoe, Huntley, 111.
Medical Certificates were awarded to
Widdiam Connoddy, Cresco, Iowa.
A. J. Burger, Beading, Pa.
E.	J. Moditor, Somonauk, Ill.

Commercial Diflomas were awarded to
B. E. Edeming, Henderson, Ky.
E. Eogarty, Pittsburg, Pa.
J. E. McCarthy, Lafayette, Ind.
J. N. Osher, Chicago, Ill.
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Geo. Pike, Uniontown, Kentucky.
W. Ryan, Delevan, Ill.
Jas. Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.
Patrick Shea, Wabash, Ind.
Jos. Smith, Circleville, Ohio.
P. II. Vogel, Columbus, Ohio.
P. B. Phillips, Port Wayne, Ind.
A. Rietz, Chicago, Ill.
Wm. Rietz, Manistee, Mich.
Jno. Casey, Erie, Pa.
B.	Casey, Erie, Pa.
C.	J. Brinkman, Terre Haute, Ind.
J. H. Delaney, Green Bay, Wis.
M. B. Ealvey, Ind.
G. H. Donnelly, Chicago, Ill.
Prank Brennan, Whitewater, Wis.
Alpha A. Lent, Waterloo, Ind.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
[The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class, and the Gold Medals
in the Junior and Sophomore Classes of this Course, were not awarded.]
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to Albert P. Zahm, Huntington, Indiana.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to R. Anderson, Circleville, Ohio.
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Medal awarded to M. J. Burns, Ada, Mich.
JUNIOR CLASS.	o
Medal awarded to Geo. Sugg, Chicago, Ill.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Medal awarded to R. E. Eleming, Henderson, Ky.
Medal eor Evidences of Christianity, awarded to E. C. Orrick,
Canton, Miss.
AWARDING OF HONORS.
63
The Edward’s Medal for Progress in Penmanship, awarded
ex xquo to F. B. Johnson, Memphis, Tenn., and to H. L. Bose, Evans-
ville, Indiana.	•
The Franoolon Gold Medals for Christian Doctrine, awar-
ded to W. B. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa; F. Brennan, White-
water, Wis.; and to J. B. Martlett, Vicksburg, Miss.
Medals for Excellence in Elocution (that donated by J. A.
Lyons, Notre Dame, Ind.), awarded to W. J. McCarthy, Boonville, Mo.;
(that donated by J. B. Berteling, Cincinnati, Ohio,) to C. E. Tinley,
Covington, Ky.; (that by J. P. Shea, Toronto, Canada,) to F. X. Wall,
Springfield, 0.; (the one donated by Bev. T. O’Sullivan, Mount Forest,
Ill.,) to C. Hagan, Dungannon, Ohio.
The Edward’s Medal for Church History was awarded to
Wm. Arnold, Washington, D. C.; and that for General History was
awarded to J. B. Berteling, Cincinnati, Ohio.
+
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
John B. McGrath,
J. Casey,
W. Connolly,
R. C. O’Brien,
J. N. Osher,
FIRST HONORS WERE AWARDED TO
Wm. B. McGorrisk, Robt. M. Anderson,
B. Casey,
D. Donahoe,
P. Shea,
M. J. McEniry,
T. Conlan,
Thos. W. Simms,
Joseph Smith,
J. P. Brice,
J. B. Berteling,
F. T. Clarke,
Jacob Kurz,
Frank Smith,
P. B. Larkin,
A. F. Zahm.
L. Proctor,
G. Harris,
Jas. Solon,
SECOND
L. Clements,
F. Kinsella,
H. Wathen,
HONORS TO
G. E. Clarke,
L. Mathers,
Thos. Zeien.
W. McAtee,
G. Pike,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. J. Buerger,
J. J. Gordon,
R. De Bourgeois,
A. S. Rock,
FIRST HONORS
C. J. Brinkman,
F. H. Grever,
Peter P. Nelson,
WERE AWARDED TO
James K. Schobey,
M. J. Burns,
W. J. McCarthy,
Frank B. Phillips,
John A. Seeger,
A. A. Caren,
J. E. McCarthy,
Charles F. Rietz,
F. C. Scheid,
Edward G. Sugg.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND HONORS TO
R. E. O’Connor,
H. L. Rose,
C. H. Thiele,
C. J. McDermott,
J. L. Morgan,
Frank Becker,
H. F. Devitt,
A. J. Hintze,
F. A. Kleine,
E. A. Otis,
C. F. Rose,
N. Weny,
G. C. Foster,
A. C. Hierb,
A. M. Coghlin,
T. F. Flynn,
J. A. Herrmann,
F. McPhillips,
P. H. Rasche,
J. M. Scanlan,
J. B. Weitzel,
J. A. Gibbons,
G. Castenado,
L. W. Coghlin,
R. E. Fleming,
A. F. Hellebusch,
N. J. Nelson,
Joe Ruppe,
C. A. Tinley,
J. V. Cabel,
G. J. Rhodins,
J. F. Browne,
J. W. Devitt,
J. W. Guthrie,
F. R. Johnson,
E. C. Orrick.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
FIRST HONORS WERE AWARDED TO
Geo. C. Knight,
Harry Snee,
Guy Woodson,	Jas. M. Courtney,
Jose Chaves,	E. A. Howard,
A. J. Campau.
Joe. Courtney,
H. A. G. Kitz,
SECOND HONORS TO
Dan. Taylor,
J. Bannister,
C. Campau,
J. T. Smith,
H. P. Dunn,
J. F. Henry,
C. G. Droste,
G. Van Mourick,
William O’Malley,
W. Hanavin,
F. Farrelly,
C. Echlin,
L. Young,
James E. Johnson.
M. S. Olds,
Jos. Dwenger,
F. Mattes,
A. Kelly,

SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Anderson, R.—Premium in Machine Drawing; Premium in 1st Algebra;
Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in Botany; Premium in
Physiology.
Berteling, J. B.—1st Premium in Modern History; Premium in Ancient
History; Premium in Geology; Premium in Mineralogy; Accessit in
Descriptive Geometry; 1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Burger, A. J.—Premium in 3d Latin; Premium in Descriptive Geometry;
Premium in Human Anatomy; 1st Accessit in Moral Philosophy.
Bloom, F. W.—1st Premium in 2d Latin; Premium in 3d Greek; Premium
in Astronomy; Premium for Violin; Premium in 2d Chemistry; 2d Accessit
in Moral Philosophy.
Brennan, F.—3d Accessit in 8th Latin; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping;
1st Premium in English Composition; 1st Accessit in 1st Geometry.
Burns, M. T.—Premium in 4th Greek; Accessit in Elocution.
Bell, F.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Claggett, B. J.—2d Accessit in 4th Latin; Accessit in 4th Greek; Premium
for Violin.
Casey, J.—3d Accessit in 8th Latin; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in
1st Geometry; Premium for Examination.
PREMIUMS.	65
Casey, B.—2d Premium in 8th Latin; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; Premium
for Examination.
Connolly, W.—2d Premium in 5th Latin; Premium in Chemistry; Premium
in Descriptive Surgery.
Campbell, R.—Premium in English History; 2d Premium in 1st Christian
Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 5th Latin; Accessit in Ethics.
Clements, L.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in
1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Clarke, G.—Premium in Modern History; 1st Accessit in 6th Latin; Accessit
in Logic.
Clarke, T. F.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Donahoe, D.—Accessit in Ethics.
Dempsey, J.—4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine.
Danahey, D.—Premium in Elocution; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping;
Accessit in Architectural Drawing; 1st Accessit in English Composition;
1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.	. .	_
Delaney, J.—Premium for Examination; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; 2d
Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Delaney, H. J.—1st Premium in Penmanship.
Donnelly, G.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium for Examin-
ation; 2d Accessit in Rhetoric.
English, M.—2d Premium in 1st Geography and History; Premium in Trig-
onometry ; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar.
Ewell, E.—1st Premium in Telegraphy.
Falvey, M.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Geography
and History; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Book-
Keeping.
Fogarty, E.—3d Premium in Penmanship; Premium for Guitar; 3d Accessit
in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 3d Ac-
cessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Harris, G.—Premium for Examination.
Harrington, D.—2d Premium, ex aequo, 4th Latin; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Hamilton, W.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Hunt, J.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium for Examination; 4th
Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Hesse, W.—Premium for Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d
Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Jones, W. G.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution.
Kinny, J.—Accessit in 3d Latin; Accessit in Geology; Accessit in Mineralogy.
Keenan, R. E.—2d Premium in Public Reading; Premium in Examination;
Premium for Piano.
Karins, C.—1st Preminmin 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium in
2d Book-Keeping; 4th Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in
Penmanship.	_
Kavanagh, T.—1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 2d Gram-
mar ; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.	.
Kinsella, F.—4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine; Accessit in Violin.
Kurz, J.—Premium in 6th Greek; Premium for Examination; 1st Accessit
in 1st Geometry.
Larkin, P.—1st Premium in 6th Latin; Premium in Ancient History; 1st
Premium in 1st Geometry; Accessit in Trigonometry; 2d Accessit in 2d
Algebra.
Lent, A.—1st Accessit in Telegraphy.
Lynch, F.—4th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in
2d Book-Keeping.
66	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Lynch, E.—3d Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Lanham, R.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; Premium for Examination; 2d
Accessit in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
McGrath, J. B.—Premium in 1st Latin; Premium in 1st Greek; Premium in
Elocution.
McGorrisk, W. B.—Premium in Ethics; Premium in 3d German; Premium
in 2d Physics; 4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
McGorrisk, E.—3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Accessit in
2d Algebra.
McEniry, M. J.—Accessit in Logic; Accessit in Physics and Chemistry.
McIntyre M. J.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar;
1st Accessit in 2d Geometry; Accessit for Piano.
McR^a, J. D.—6th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 3d Accessit in
3d Christian Doctrine.
McAtee, W.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 2d Book-
Keeping ; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar ; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
McNamara, J.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in
2d Grammar.
Murphy, E.—Premium in 4th Greek; Accessit in Astronomy.
Molitor, E.—Premium in Examination; Premium for Guitar; 3d Accessit in
7th Latin.
Mattingly, F.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Mathers, L.—2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 8th Latin.
MarUtt, J.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine’; 1st Accessit in Telegraphy;
4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Noonan, J.—Accessit in 3d Greek; Accessit in 3d Latin.
O’Brien, R.—2d Premium, ex aquo, 4th Latin; Premium in Logic; Accessit
for Piano.
O’Reilly, J.—1st Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Osher, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Geometry.
Pike, G.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Pre-
mium in Penmanship; Premium for Examination; 1st Accessit in 1st
Geography and History; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Proctor. L.—Premium in Architectural Drawing.
Ryan, W.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium for Examination; 5th
Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d
Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Simms, T. W.—1st Premium in Public Reading; Premium in Moral Philoso-
phy; Accessit in 3d Latio; Accessit in English History.
Simms, H.—2d Accessit in 8th Latin; 1st Accessit in Rhetoric.
Sugg, G.—Premium in Calculus and Mechanics; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian
Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 5th Latin ; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; Ac-
cessit in Geology; Accessit in Astronomy.
Solon, J.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doc-
trine; Premium for Examination ; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography and
History; 1st Accessit, in 1st Book-Keeping.
Stitzel, L.—Accessit for Violin.
Shea, P.—1st Premium in Telegraphy; Premium for Examination; 1st Ac-
cessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Smith, J.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in Examination;
Accessit for Violin.
Smith, F. C.—4th Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Smith, C. L.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping;
Accessit in Elocution.
Smith, S. J.—2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Stewart, R.—Premium in Zoology.
Scholfield, W.—2d Accessit in 7th Latin; 1st Accessit in 4th Algebra.
PREMIUMS.	67
Van Dusen, 0.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra;
1st Accessit in Ancient History; 2d Accessit in 1st Geometry.
Wall, F. X.—Accessit in Ethics.
Whalen, C.—1st Premium in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in 2d
Algebra; 2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium in 2d Geom-
etry ; Premium for Examination.
Zahm, A.—Premium in 5th Greek; Premium in 4th Latin; Premium in
Elocution; Accessit in Surveying; Accessit in 1st Algebra.	‘
Zeien, T.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in English
Composition.
Zarley, C.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar.
A
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Browne, J. F.—3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History.
Burger, A. J.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 8th Latin; Pre-
mium General Average of Examination.
Brinkman, 0. J.—1st Premium in 1st German; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Pen-
manship; 2d Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in Composition.
Bodine, A.—1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Burmeister, A.—2d Premium, ex aequo, in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d
Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.
Byrne, T. P.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Bachmann, H.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Becker, F.-—2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 5th
German; 2d Accessit in Elocution; Premium General Average of Exam-
ination.
Burns, M. J—1st Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Premium in 2d German; 1st
Premium in Public Reading; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in Penmanship; Pre-
mium in Zoology; Premium in Botany; 1st Accessit in Chemistry.
Butler, M. G.—2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; Premium Gen-
eral Average of Examination.
Butler, V. G.—Premium in 2d Division of 4th Grammar; 1st Premium in 3d
Geography; Premium General Average of Examination.
Castanedo, G.—2d Accessit in Grammar; 2d Accessit in Arithmetic; 1st Ac-
cessit in Geography and History; 1st Accessit in 4th German; 3d Accessit
in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in French; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Carter, F.—3d Accessit in 4th German.
Caren, A.—2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 6th Greek.
Croarkin, E,—6th Accessit m 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography and
History; 3d Premium, ex aquo, in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Elocution;
Premium General Average of Examination.
Coghlin, A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium, ex aequo, in United
States History; 3d Premium, ex aequo, in Penmanship.
Coghlin, L.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Conyne, E. A.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit
in 3d Grammar; 6th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Elocution;
Premium General Average of Examination.
68	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Cleary, W. S.—2d. Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Premium
in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium, ex aequo,
in 2d Geography and History; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Bible History;
Premium General Average of Examination.
Devitt, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Ac-
cessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; Premium General Average of Examin-
ation.
Devitt, H.—Premium General Average Examination; 2d Accessit in 4th
Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Devitt, T.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; Premium General Average of
Examination; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Dering, S.—Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 3d
Grammar; 2d. Premium, ex aequo, in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d
Geography and History.
Dever, F.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Davis, J.—3d Accessit in 3d German: 2d Premium, ex aequo, in United States
History; 3d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Flynn, T. F.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in
2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra; 2d Accessit in Bible History.
Foster, G. C.—3d Premium in 1st Geography and History; Premium General
Average of Examination.
Fleming, R. E.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Geo-
graphy and History; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st
United States History; 1st Premium, ex aequo, in Bible History; 1st Pre-
mium in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium for Examination.
Farrelly, O. J.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average
of Examination; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in
Telegraphy.
Foote, H. G.—1st Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Christian
Doctrine; Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 2d
Penmanship.
Gordon, J. J.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 4th
Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit for Piano.
Grever, F. H.—1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 1st Premium for Flute; Premium
General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 2d Geometry; 1st Ac-
cessit in 1st German.
Guthrie, J. W.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium for Cornet; 1st
Accessit in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit in Elocution.
Gibbons, J. A.—1st Premium, ex aequo, in United States History; 2d Premium,
ex aequo, in Public Reading; 1st Premium in 4th German; 2d Premium in
Elocution; 1st Premium in Rhetoric; Premium General Average of Ex-
amination ; 2d Accessit in 6th Latin; 4th Accessit in Bible History; 2d
Accessit in Penmanship.
Guynn, H. G.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d
Reading and Orthography.
Gaines, E. H.~Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 1st
Reading and Orthography.
Groenewold, F. W.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; Premium General Aver-
age of Examination; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 2d
Geography and History.
Gilbert, L. J.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d
Penmanship.
Herrick, M. E— 2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium
General Average of Examination; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography and
History.
Hierb, A. 0.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 3d
Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.


PREMIUMS.	69
Hintze, A. J.—Premium General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 2d
Book-Keeping.
Herrmann, J. A.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in
2d Book-Keeping.
Hellebusche, A. F.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit
in 2d German; 1st Accessit for Flute.
Johnson, F. R.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium General Average
of Examination; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar.
Joyce, P.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 7th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Kelly, J. M.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 4th
Grammar; 6th Accessit in 2d Geography and History; 3d Accessit in
Elocution.
Klein, F.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Premium in 2d
German; 4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and
Orthography; 4th Accessit for Piano.
Kuhn, J. W.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; Premium General Aver-
age of Examination.
Le Bourgeois, R.—2d Premium in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium
in French; Premium in General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit
in United States History.
Litmer, J. E.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Larkin, J. A.—1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and
Orthography.
Mergentheim, A. B.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; Premium in 2d
French; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit m
2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in Elocution. ,
McPhillips, F.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; Premium
General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st
Accessit in Bible History.
McDermott, C. J.—2d Premium, 6® &quo, in Composition; 1st Accessit in 1st
Algebra; 1st Accessit m 7th Latin.
Morgan, J. L.—2d Accessit in 3d German.
McCarthy, W. J.—-1st Premium in Public Reading; 2d Accessit in Ancient
History; 1st Accessit in Rhetoric.
McCarthy, J. E—2d Premium in 4th German; Premium General Average
of Examination; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 4th Accessit
in United States History; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Manning, A. S.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in
3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit for Piano.
Nelson, P. P.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; Premium General Average of
Examination; 4th Accessit in 2d Geography and History; 3d Accessit in
Penmanship.
Nelson, N. J.—1st Premium, exaequo, in 2d Geography and History; Premium
General Average of Examination; 4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Orrick, E. 0.—Premium in Modern History; 1st Premium in Elocution;
Premium in Surveying; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Accessit in 2d
Algebra; 1st Accessit m 4th Latin.
O’Connor, R. E.—1st Premium for Violin ; Premium General Average of Ex-
amination ; 1st Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Accessit m Elocution.
O’Neill, J. P.—2d Premium in Rhetoric; 1st Accessit in Elocution; 1st Ac-
cessit in Physiology.
Otis, E. A.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 2d ex aequo, in Composition; Premium
General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 3d Algebra.
Payro, A. G.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Perry, 0. F.—4th Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Pomy, R. H—1st Premium, ex aequo, in 2d Geography and History; Premium
General Average of Examination; 3d Accessit in 2d German.
70	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Phillips, F. B.—1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium, e® cequo, in Teleg-
raphy; 1st Premium in Penman-ship; 1st Accessit in Elocution; 1st
Premium in Composition; Premium General Average of Examination.
Parrett, R. M.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in Penmanship.
Quinn, F. A.—Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in
6th Greek; 3d Accessit in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium m Elocution; 2d
Accessit in Rhetoric.
Quinn, G. J.—1st Accessit in 3d Geography.
Roberts, C. H.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in
4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 5th German; 4th Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography.
Rietz, C. F.—1st Premium for Piano; Premium General Average of Examin-
ation; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in United States
History.
Rettig, F. J.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; Premium Gen-
eral Average of Examination.
Rhodius, G. J.—2d Premium for Piano; Premium in General Average of
Examination; 3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography.
Rasche, P. H.—1st Premium in 1st Catechism; Premium General Average of
Examination; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic;
3d Accessit in 2d Geography and History.
Rose, H. L.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Ruppe, J.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d
Accessit in 1st Geography and History.
Rose, C.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium General Average
of Examination; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 4th Ger-
man ; 2d Accessit m Elocution.
Rock, A. 8.—2d Premium in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Botany; 1st
Accessit in 8th Latin.
Rohrback, A.—1st ex cequo, in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Elocution;
Premium General Average of Examination; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography.
Semmes, R. J.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in
1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in4th Algebra; 2u Accessit in United States
History.
Schobey, J.—2d Accessit in Elocution.
Sugg, E. G.—Sth Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d German; 1st
Accessit for Piano.
Seeger, J. A.—Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Start, J. W.—2d Accessit in Elocution.
Scanlan, J. M.—2d Premium in Bible History; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading and
Orthography ; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Wilder, J. B.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Simms, Jno.—1st Accessit in 2d Division of 4ih Grammar; 1st Accessit in 4th
Arithmetic.
Simms, R. C.—3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 5th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic;
2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Schneider, C.—1st Premium, ex cequo, in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d
Reading and Orthography ; 2d Accessit ol 2d Division in 4th Grammar;
2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Thiele O.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Tinley, O.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic ; 1st Accessit for Violin.
Thompson, W.—1st Premium in 1st Geometry; 2d Accessit in Botany; 2d
Accessit in 7th Latin; 3d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 1st Accessit m
Elocution.
Tate, A.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar.
PREMIUMS.
71
Vedder, M.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in
Telegraphy.
Weitzel, J.—3d Accessit in Bible History; 1st Accessit in 2d German.
Wenv, K.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st
Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 7th Latin;
Premium, ex aquo, 3d Algebra; Premium, General Average Examination.
Zeis, F.—Premium General Average Examination.
Zekind, B.—3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; 3d
Accessit in 3d Geography.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Ayers, W.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Orthog-
raphy; 4th Accessit in Reading.
Ackerman, L. J.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Orthog-
raphy.
Bannister, J. W.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Reading;
3d Accessit in Orthography..
Bender, J.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Campau, A. J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th in 2d Reading; 4th Ac-
cessit in 1st Geography.
Campau, C.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Christian
Doctrine.
Courtney, J. S.—1st Premium in Geography; 4th Premium in Orthography;
5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Courtney, J. M.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 8th Premium in Gram-
mar; 5th Premium in Reading; 6th in 1st Arithmetic.
Dunn, H. P.—2d Premium in Penmanship; 7th in Grammar; 4th in Arith-
metic; 3d Accessit in Orthography; Prize for Artistic Drawing.
Droste, C. E—3d Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in United States
History; 3d Accessit in Arith-metic ; 7th Accessit in Grammar.
Dwenger, J. H.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 4th Read-
ing; 1st Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Farrelly, F. B.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 3rd Premium in Christian
Doctrine.
Echlin, C. C.—1st Premium in Orthography; 6th Premium in Geography;
2d Premium in Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in United Slates History.
Howard, E. A.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in Orthog-
raphy; 1st Accessit in Geography.	.
Hanavin, W. F.—5th Premium in Second Reading; 5th Accessit in 1st Arith-
metic ; 3d in Geography.
Henry, J. J.—6th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Accessit in Orthography; 3d
Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Johnson, J.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 4th Reading.
Knight G.—4th Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d
in Geography.
72	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kitz, H. G.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in Orthography;
2d Accessit in Geography.
Kelly, J. A.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d in Penmanship; 4th Ac-
cessit in 4th Reading.
Mattes, F. P.—5th Premium in Orthography; 6th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic;
5th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Molander, C.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Metz, H.—'4th Prize in 3d Arithmetic; 5th in 2d Geography.
Metz, 0.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Miller, W.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in 4th Reading.
Malley, W. V.—1st Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in Orthography.
O’Donnell, E.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Accessit in Christian
Doctrine.
Olds, M S.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; A
Prize for Artistic Drawing.
Smith, J. T.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Geography;
1st Accessit in Grammar.
Snee, H. C.—4th Premium in Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d
Premium in 2d Reading.
Schmiickle, A. F.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 3d
Arithmetic.
Taylor, D. G.—1st Premium in Grammar; 2d Premium in Christian Doc-
trine; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Geography.
Tourtillotte, G. E.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 4th Premium in 1st Arith-
metic; 7th Premium in Orthography; A prize for Artistic Drawing.
Van Mourick, A.—6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in Christian
Doctrine.
Van Mourick, G.—6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 9th Premium in Geogra-
phy; 5th Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Woodson, G.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Young, L— 1st Premium in Penmanship; 5th Premium in4th Reading.
Young, C.—6th Premium in 4th Reading.

THIRTY-SIXTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
&OF TUES
OniYmitoi of Kotos Bame, Indiana.
JJonda^, Tkieddat] and l^cdnc^day, June 21, 22 23, 1880.
-^PKOG-RAj\ IMEY
Alt >2V 13^X7, .JTJATK J31.
Opening March............X. D. I'. C. Band
Arehconfraternity of the B. V...M. J. McEniry
St. Aloysius Philodemic Association,
..........................G.	E. Clarke
Violin Solo................-E. AV. Bloom
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
......................AV. J. McCarthy
Thespian Association.....AV. B. McGoirisk
Chorus.....,....................Glee	Club
Columbian Literary Association..B. J. Claggett
St. Strnislaus Philopatrian Association.
(song).......................  X.	Nelson
“ Faust ”.........................Quartette
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate
Conception................J. A Gibbons
Columbian Dramatic Club.......W. Connolly
Sorin Association.................D.	Taylor
Quickstep..................N.	D. V. Band
ATonxlay, June Lil,-4-1?. AT.
Exercises of the
March....................N.	D. U. C. Band
Commercial Address...........J.	II. Delaney
“Importance of the Study of the Law
.............................F. X. AV all
A'iolin Solo..................B.	J. Claggett
“Loyalty to the Constitution’’..I). Donahoe
“ Dignity of the Legal Profession ’’
................................T.	AV. Simms
ffratlunling' tlass.
Piano Solo....................F.	A. Qninn
“ Marvels of Astronomy ”.....J. P. Kinney
“Sketch of the Middle Ages”... J. B. Berteling
Flute solo...................  F.	Grever
“ Geology in its relation to the other
Sciences, and to Religion ”....A. J. Burger
Closing Remarks..........................
March....................N.	D. U. C. Band
Alonday, June 31, 7 :3O 3?. AT.
Exercises of the Elocution Class.
Preciosa............................Quartette
Song.........................Sorin	Association
Self-Glorification (.Original)...D. Danahey
The Indians (selected).............A.	F. Zahm
The Old College...................G.	Donnelly
Chorus .............................Glee Club
The Young Gray Head..........AV. J. McCarthy
The Editor’s Arisitors.......F.	X. AVall
Guitar Solo....................B.	J. Claggett
Perrhas’us and the Captive.....C. A. Tinley
Ballad.........................M. T. Corby
The Country	Jury............E. C. Orrick
Separating.....................C. L. Hagan
Ariolin Solo.................E. AAr. Bloom
The Empty Sleeve.............J. B. McGrath
Ariolin Solo....................Jos. Smith
rUESDAY, .TT7KL3 22-MORNIZSTGE
Solemn High 2Iass (Alumni)....6 o’clock
Breakfast.....................7:30
Annual Meeting of Alumni......9:30
AFTERNOON.
Alumni Banquet...........1:30	o’clock
Begatta. ..................  3:00	o'clock
Supper.......................5:30
EVENING,
Washington Hall..........7:0t)	o’clock
Fart First.
Grand Opening March.......N. D- V. C. B.
Solo and Chorus ..........Glee Club
Oration of the Alumni.D. E. Maloney, ’7-1
Solo (by request)..............M. T- Corby
Music................. University	Orchestra
Prologue.....................  A. J. Burger
Fait Second.
Heartwell at Hamf-ord;
"FIRM FRIENDS AND FAST FRIENDS,11
.A Dramain THree Acts. By tlie Tliewpiun Assoeiation.
CAST OF CHARACTERS:
Mr. Kind win, President.....Thomas Simms
Mr. Sharp, Vice President...A. J. Burger
Mr. Wells, Professor........Patrick Larkin
Larry O’Toole, servant (“A clane swape”).
.........................D. Donahue
Ernest Hartwell, an Undergraduate
(true to the core)......W. B. McGorrisk
Willie Lovejoy, a Ereshman (Rather
young yet)..................Erank Bloom
Johnny Winkles, Willie’s chum (Fond
of fun)...........:.....W. H. Arnold
Merriman, an Undergraduate (“Let’s
have a lark,”)..........Bernard Claggett
Rufus, an Undergraduate (“Always
on hand,”)...................G.	Sugg
Loftus Swellington, an Undergraduate
(“Aw,”)..............John B. McGrath
Entrance March....
Chorus............
Poem of the Alumni
Music (solo)......
Simon de Verd, a Freshman, (“Sold
again,”).........................F. Wall
McGrubber, an Undergraduate (“Lend
us a cigarette”)..............J. Noonan
Reinhardt, an Undergraduate, R. Stewart
Doubleday, an Undergradate (“Satan
preaching against Sin”)Jno. B. Bertcling
Raymond, (“A soft spot yet”) R. E. Keenan
Sordie Levi, Pawbroker (“Yes, matear
—yes,”)..................Jno.	B. McGrath
Hon. W. Lovejoy, (Willie’s father)
..............................Geo. Clarke
Mr. Heartwell, (Ernest’s father,)
...........................D. Harrington
Redderville, Detective,....Michael Burns
Epilogue........................T. Simms
Closing Remarks..........................
March...................... N.D.U. C. B.
Wednesday, June 23,8 A. M.
-N. D. U. C. B.
......Glee Club
W. T. Ball, ’77
,...M. T. Corby
Oration of the Day.........,Hon. E. Dunne
Music...........................University	Orchestra
Valedictory...............John B. McGrath
Music....................N. D. U. C. Band
Distribution of Premiums—Preparatory Classes—Awarding of Class Prizes
and Honors—Awarding of Diplomas—Commercial Course.
She Sotrc Borne Scholastic
■Se,'5	‘
i
i
is the title of a neat 16-page paper published every week during term time :
at the University. This journal opens a field for young aspirants to liter-
ary fame, who might otherwise for want of a proper medium allow their
talents in this line to remain inactive. It also contains many articles of an
instructive and literary character from writers of mature and acknowledged j
ability, thus rendering The Scholastic a valuable publication for all who ।
desire variety and instruction in their reading. During the past years there j
have appeared in its pages many interesting Biographical Sketches of men !
of note in Literature, Science, Painting, Sculpture, etc., Essays in prose and ’
i
verse, and Notes on Art, Music and Literature, gleaned from the best I
i
sources. It will be the honest endeavor of the Editor, during the coming ।
year, to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past, and the high
encomiums bestowed upon it by gentlemen of high culture and by first-class
papers among the weekly press.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic attaches to itself a
local importance to students, to their parents, and to all who have in former
years attended class at the University, by a weekly summary of events
transpiring at Notre Dame, by personal notices of the old students, weekly
Rolls of Honor, Class Honors, and lists of excellence. Reports relative to
the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talanted and energetic
. students, etc., will also find a place in this paper, and keep parents and
friends accurately informed on all that concerns their children.
$1.50 PKR TANTNTUAI, Dost paid-Single Copies, 5 cts.
AMre^	EDITOR XOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,	’
*
Notre Dame, Ind.	j
If
i
I
One 'Mile ®e6t of ®otrc Same ^niverditu.
! a J	■ 'i.A''’	>§}(§<	& g>'3	C> &”&
Conducted bq the Sfoterd of the H?olu Cro55.
«• c-J	«J	>.-2	e-^Ta <J
the branches of a solid and complete education are taught at St.
Mary’s. The course of studies is thorough in the. Classical, Academ-
ical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as these Languages enter into
the regular course of studies.	।
The Musical department is conducted on the plan of the best Conser- !
vatories of Europe.	!
In the Art Department the same principles which form the basis of i
instruction in the great Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course |
of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Painting or Music may ।
pursue a special course.	;
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and Classical ।
courses receive the graduating Gold Medals of these Departments.	j
Graduating Medals are awarded to the pupils who have pursued a i
special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department. !
Prize Gold Medals are awarded in the following courses : German, French,
Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing, and Domestic Economy in the
Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment both in the
Senior and Junior Departments.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academic and Classical
Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6 ; Drawing and Painting, 5 ; Instru-
mental Music, 10; Dress-making, Plain and Fancy Needlework, 7.
Simplicity of Dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, Address
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., St. Joseph Co., Ind.
The proximity of Notie Dame and St. Mary’s is a great convenience
to parents having children at both Institutions when they visit their sons
and daughters. An omnibus line between South Bend, Notre Dame, and
St. Mary’s, connects regularly with all trains arriving at South Bend.
uttalijms tu the
A Card of Thanks.
The Lemonnier Library Association gratefully acknowledges dona-
tions of books from the following friends of education: W. J. Onahan,
of Chicago, 100 vols.; Mrs. M. Carrington, N. Y., 75 vols.; D. and J.
Sadlier & Co., Publishers, N. Y., 170 vols.; J. B. Piet, Baltimore,
75 vols.; J. B. Berteling, Cincinnati, Ohio, 60 vols.; W. Arnold,
Washington, D. C., 90 vols.; Rev. A. Haviland, Philadelphia, 125
vols. of Magazines and Periodicals; Mrs. M. Rhodius, Indianopolis,
100 vols.; Rev. Father Van Dyke, Detroit, a set of the ante-Nicene
Fathers; M. Foote, Burlington, Iowa, 45 vols.; P. F. Cunningham,
Philadelphia, 27 vols.; P. Fox, St. Louis, 28 vols.; Hon. A. C. Dodge,
Burlington, Iowa, 35 vols; Prof. J. A. Lyons, 75 vols.; Mrs. Paul
Edwards, Toledo, 150 vols.; Van Antwerp, Bragg & Co., Cincinnati,
30 vols.; Robert Clarke & Co., 25 vols.; J. Kelly, St. Louis, 25 vols.;
Editor of Ave Maria, a complete set of the Dublin Eeveiw ; E. Flynn,
Kal., Mich., a complete set of Scribner’s Monthly; Prof. L. G. Tong,
23 vols.; Jacob Wile, Laporte, Ind., 21 vols.; Hon. James Forrester,
Laporte, Ind., a complete set of Bishop England’s Works; His Em-
inence Cardinal Newman a valuable collection of his own writings;
Rev. P. J. Colovin, 21 vols.; Miss Abbe Hemenway, Burlington, Vt.,
50 vols. of Magazines. Many others have given from one to twenty
volumes.
ERR A TA.
Page 20—Omit charge for Modern Languages. Page 50—For
Johnsee read Johnson. Page 64—To the List of those who received
second honors in the Junior Department, add the name of F. A.
Quinn.
FOUNDED IN 1842.
THE .1 Ell' XOTHE-I):1E[E.	■
(*1AIN BU'LDING.)
INCORPORATED IN 1844.