THIRTY-SEVENTH
Cl
ANNUAL CATALOGUE
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE
ante
7
For the Academic Year 1880-81.
it

t
THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 1881.
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
1881.
(MAIN BUNDING )
ERECTED AUG. 1873. DEDICATED SEPT 81" 1879
THIRTY-SEVENTH
ANNUAL CATALOGUE
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE
r
A

7
For the Academic Year 1880-81.

Cmiuneitmneut,
THURSDAY, JUNE 23, 1881.
JSTOTJRZE ZD-A-ZMUHL IZNTID.:
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
1881.
(A
of
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, 0. S. 0.,
President.
VERY REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, 0. S. 0.,
Vice-President.
VERY REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. 0., •
. Chancellor.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
(3
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.
BRO. EDWARD, C. S. 0.,
Treasurer.
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, 0. S. C,
Vice-President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. JOHN O'KEEFFE, 0. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Very Rev. ALEXIS GRANDER, 0. S. 0.,
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY L. MAHER, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
ASSISTANT PREFECTS OF DISCIPLINE.
Senior Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.,	’ Bro. ALBERT, 0. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,	Bro. RAPHAEL, C. S. 0.
Jnnior D epartment.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.,	Bro. LAURENCE, C. S. C.,
Bro. EDWIN, C. S. C.
Minim Department.
Bro. AMANDUS, C. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M. D., Physician.
wtium! wtuItM*
I	V	Ot>
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C..
President.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, 0. S. 0,
Vice-President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. JOHN O’KEEFFE, 0. S. 0..
Prefect of Discipline.
PROFESSORS.
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, 0. S. C..
Evidences of Christianity.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, 0. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. JOHN O’KEEFFE, 0. S. 0.,
Logic and. Mental Philosophy.
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Rev. JOHN A. O'CONNELL, C. S. C.,
Mond Philosophy.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Candor of the Museum.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, 0. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature,
Rev. A. M. KIRSCH. C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences, and Assistant-Curator of Museum.
Rev. P. KOLLOP, C. S. C..
German.
Rev. J. VERDIN, C. S. C..
French.
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON, M. D.,
Human Anatomy and Physiology.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M., LL. D.,
Latin and English.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, A. M., LL. B.,
English Literature.
GENERAL FACULTY.	7
ARTHUR J. STAGE, A. M„ G. E..
Astronomy and Ciril Enyineeriny.
LUCIUS G. TONG, LL. B., M. A.,
Lair and Book-Keepiny.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, LL. B„
History, and Librarian of the Lemonnier Library.
JOHN COLEMAN, A. M., B. S.,
Mathematics.
FLORIAN DEVOTO, A. B., M. S..
Sarreyiny and Linear Draiciny.
M. J. McCUE, B. S..
Latin and Mathematics.
A.	G UNSWORTH. A. M..
Enylish Criticism.
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
thomas McNamara, c. s. g,
Enylish.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
D. B. TOOMEY, 0. S. 0..
Latin and English.
J. CRUMLEY, C. S. C..
English.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, 0. S. C,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy.
b. j. McGinnis, ll. b..
English.
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C., Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.,
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
Bro. ULRICH, C. S. 0.,
Bro. EDWIN, C. S. C,
Bro. MODESTUS, C. S. C.
GENERAL FACULTY.
DEPARTMENT OF FINE ARTS
MUSIC.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Organ, Piano, Guitar and Flute.
Bro. LEOPOLD, 0. 8. 0.,
Violin and Clarinet.
DAMIS PAUL,
Director of Band and Orchestra.
CARL J. BAUR.
Vocal Music.
PAINTING AND DRAWING.
Signor LUIGI GREGORL
Ilisto i ‘ica I Pa in ting.
Bro. ALBERT, C. S. C..
Artistic Draining.
H. ACKERMAN,
a i rch itect ural Pa in ting.
CARL J. BAUR,
Architectural Draining and Perspectine.
The President of the University is ex-officio President of each of the
Special Faculties.
Faculty of Arts.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. ('.
Rev. Nicholas Stoffel. C. S. (*.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. AI.
Timothy E. Howard, A. AL
J. F. Edwards. LL. B.
A. C. Unsworth. A. AL
Faculty of Science.
Rev. John A. Zahm. C. S. C.
Rev. John O'Keeffe, C. S. (I
Rev. A. AL Kirsch. C. S. C.
John Coleman. A. AL, B. S.
F. Devoto. A. B.. AL S.
AL J. AIcCue, B. S.
Commercial Faculty.
Rev. T. E. AValsh, C. S. U
Lucius G. Tong, LL. B., AI. A.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. (-.
I). B. Toomey, C. S. C.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. Al.
Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C.
James F Edwards, LL. B.
Law Faculty.
Lucius (4. Tong, LL. B.
T. E. Howard, LL. B.
B.	J. AIcGinnis, LL. B.
Faculty of Civil Engineering.
Arthur J. Stage, A. AI., C. E,
John Coleman, A. AL, B. S.
T. E. Howard, A. AI.
Florian Devoto, AI. S.
*
THIS UNIVERSITY was founded in 1842, by the Congregation
of the Holy Cross, under the direction of Very Rev. E. Soiiin, 1
and was chartered by the Legislature of the State of Indiana in 1844, '
with power to confer all the usual degrees.	i
The College buildings are on an eminence near two small pictu- j
resque lakes of pure spring water, in the midst of the fine and healthy ,
farming region of the St. Joseph Valley, and scarcely a mile from the !
river. The College can easily be reached from all parts of the United :
States and Canada by means of three great trunk lines of railway i
—the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Chicago and Lake I
Huron, and the Great Western and Michigan Central; the first two j
passing within a mile of the College grounds, and the last connecting I
at Niles with the recently-built railway between that city and South i
Bend, which runs within a half mile of the College. At the Michigan
Southern railroad depot, South Bend, omnibuses or private convey-
ances can be obtained.	I
The College grounds are extensive and well shaded, and contain j
ball-alleys, gymnasiums, etc., with abundant room for all games and i
athletic exercises. The buildings are new, having all been erected
since the destruction of the old college by fire in April, 1879, and are
well adapted for the purposes which they serve. They are heated by
steam, lighted by gas, supplied with hot and cold water, and all the
other modern improvements and conveniences. Particular attention
has been given to the subjects of ventilation and protection against
fire, and in furnishing the various rooms of the University every effort :
has been made to secure the comfort and health of the inmates. The
Institution is capable of giving accommodation to five hundred resi-
dent students.	!
12	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Site
of the College is one particularly adapted to the improvement of the
students. It is secluded and healthy, and constant care is rendering
a spot naturally beautiful still more attractive by art and good taste.
We state only the advantages of
Health and Retirement
that are enjoyed by the inmates of the Institution; a description of
all that pleases at Notre Dame would take us beyond the limit of these
pages. We prefer to give a hearty invitation to all our patrons, and
to all who think of confiding their sons to our care, to come and see,
and judge for themselves.
The advantages arising from the
Retired Position
of the College cannot fail to be appreciated by parents who have at
heart the education of their children; and even the careless student,
when once interested in his studies, soon finds out the benefits he can
derive from an uninterrupted attention to class and study. Though
secluded in a great measure from the busy world without, yet the
number of students and the extensive College grounds give him a
world of his own, in which, what with Class, Examination, Notes,
Literary Societies, Religious Associations, Baseball Clubs, Boat Clubs,
Dramatic, Musical, Literary and Scientific Entertainments, he finds
full enjoyment and amusement, and companions, ideas and sentiments
that all concur to fix his mind on his studies and establish him in
habits of piety, application and order, the influence of which will be
felt during his entire life. He breathes for a few short years the
atmosphere of order, of regularity in all that he does, of profound
application to studies, broken only by healthy and regular recreation;
and certainly in our times, when serious and solid studies are becom-
ing so rare—when all kinds of inducements to waste and fritter away
time are forced upon young students—when morals are so lightly
watched over—the advantage of the retired location of Notre Dame
cannot be too highly spoken of.
Providence has singularly blessed the institution in regard to
health; and those who have had their sons in the College can give
PROSPECTUS.	13
their testimony that the regular course of life, added to the salubrious
climate and the fresh country air, has done much to improve the
health of their children.
The disciplinary government is mild, yet sufficiently energetic to
preserve order and regularity. The morals and general deportment
of the pupils are assiduously watched over, and their comforts and
personal habits receive the same attention as if they were in the bosom
of their own families.
'The Education
given at Notre Dame is calculated to form both the heart and intellect
of the students. Every attention is given to their moral and religious
culture. Every day the students have an opportunity of attending
classes where they may acquire a knowledge of Christian doctrine.
Twice a week, Lectures and instructions on religious topics are deliv-
ered to all the students together. The religious instruction is, of
course, confined to Catholic students. The intellectual training is
carried on with care and diligence by the officers and professors of the
University. The best systems of teaching are adopted, and the best
authors for each branch selected; so that no pains are spared to se-
cure the objects which the University has in view as an educational
institution.

For the care arid training of children under the age of thirteen,
there has been established a Department to which the most careful
attention has always been paid by the authorities of the University;
it is known as the Minim Department, and has ever been one of the
greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as well as to all persons
visiting Notre Dame. The pupils in this Department, unless for their
out-door sports, and in the refectory and dormitory, pass the day
; 14	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I	rvgnsrTy ()F X0TKE dame.
I entirely under the care of Sisters who take a tender and motherly
i care of their young charges.
i All the elementary branches of an English education are here
I taught, together wnh French and German. Also, for the Minims,
' Music (piano) is not an extra. In order to develop this Department
; and thereby extend the advantages it affords for the forming of the
( young heart, these concessions have lately been made in favor of the
1 Minims.
i Not the least considerable of the advantages enjoyed by the pupils
of the Minim Department is their complete separation from the larger
students. The discipline to which they are subject is much milder
• than that of the students more advanced in age.
4
I
, All students are required to attend the exercises of public worship
with punctuality and decorum.
Students must show themselves obedient and respectful towards the
Professors and Prefects of the institution. They must never absent
themselves from the place in which they ought to be, unless with per-
mission from proper authority.	.
Students must carefully avoid every expression in the least injurious
to religion or morals, their Professors, Prefects, or fellow-students.
; The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except to such students of
j the Senior Department as have received the written permission of their
J parents to use it, and intoxicating liquors are absolutely prohibited.
j Compensation for all damage done to the furniture or other property
i of the College will be required from the person or persons causing
i such damage.	'
No branch of study, once commenced, shall be discontinued without
permission from the Director of Studies.
! No one shall leave the University grounds without the permission
I
PROSPECTUS.	15
of the President or Vice-President, or the one delegated to represent
them.
Students are expected to take baths regularly.
Students who have failed to give satisfaction in the class-room, or
who have been guilty of misconduct, must perform such tasks as shall
be assigned them, and may be excluded from all college exercises
until these tasks be accomplished.
No book, periodical, or newspaper shall be introduced into the
College without having been previously examined and approved by
the Director of Studies. Objectionable books found in the possession
of students will be withheld from them until their departure from the
University, or destroyed.
All letters sent or received by students may be opened by the
President or his representative.
The academic year commences on the first Tuesday of September,
and closes during the last week of June, when the Annual Commence-
ment, the Conferring of Degrees and Distribution of Premiums take
place. It is divided into two Sessions. At the termination of each
Session a strict examination of all the different classes is made in the !
presence of the Faculty. There is no vacation at Easter.
When a student presents himself for admission into the College, he
is examined by the Director of Studies, and placed in the class for
which his previous attainments may have qualified him. His further
promotion depends on his application and progress. Should any
student, during the year, be found capable of passing to a higher class,
he will be promoted, and such promotion is equivalent to the honors
of the class he left.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts will be conferred on such of the
students as shall have completed the Classical Course and passed
16
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
successfully an examination in all the branches of the course, before
the Faculty.
The Degree of Master of Arts will be conferred on such of the
graduates of the first degree who shall have devoted at least two years
to literary or scientific studies, and shall have sustained satisfactorily
an appropriate thesis. Students desiring to receive this degree should
make application in writing.
The Degree of LL. B., as also those of Bacheloi’ of Science, Master
of Science, and Civil Engineer, will be conferred on similar conditions.
Diplomas will be given to the students who shall have completed
the Commercial Course and passed a satisfactory examination before
the Board of Examiners. In all cases, students receiving diplomas
are supposed to be of good moral character.
Ab student will receive a Diploma or University Honor of any kind
until such time as all indebtedness to the Institution shall have been
satisfactorily settled.
Special facilities exist at Notre Dame for the acquirement of the
French and German languages. Not only are these languages
taught very carefully by persons of acknowledged competency, but
also there is every opportunity for conversation in these tongues.
All students applying for admission will be required to give satisfactory
evidence of their moral standing.
There are in the Institution several Societies, whose constitutions
and by-laws have been approved by the Faculty; such as the Arch-
confraternity, Sodality of the Blessed Virgin, Holy Angels, Holy
Childhood, St. Aloysius Philodemic, Classical, Scientific, Thespian,
St. Cecilia, Columbian, St. Stanislaus Philopatrian, and Philharmonic
Societies, Cornet Band, and Orchestra, with some of which students
are recommended to connect themselves.
WE case of sickness the student does not remain in the College
rooms, but is immediately taken to the Infirmary, where he is attended
and nursed with devoted care, by experienced Sisters, whose attention
to the sick needs no recommendation.
PROSPECTUS.
17
Matriculation Fee, --------
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION, (Latin and
Greek, Modern Languages, Linear Drawing, and
Vocal Music included), Washing and Mending of
Linens, per Session, -..........................
5 00
150 00
Wr The first session begins on the first Tuesday of September;
the second, on the first of February.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $10 ; Scientific Course, $10;
Commercial Course, $5.
Students "who spend Summer Vacation at the University
are charged, extra, $40.
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned, per
session :
Instrumental Music—Lessons on
Piano, and Use of Instrument, $22 50
Lessons on Violin, - - - -
) General Princi-
Vocal Lessons - pies, - - -
) Vocal Culture, -
Elocution—Special Course, - -
12 50
00
00
00
Use of Library,	-
Drawing—Artistic, - - - -
Telegraphy, -------
Use of Philosophical and Chemi-
cal Apparatus, - - - - -
Oil Painting, ------
$ 1
10
10
0
15
00
00
00
00
00

Qualitative Chemical Analysis taken at the expense of the student.
UNIVERSITY UE NOTRE DAME.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Board, Tuition, etc., per session, -	-
(No extra charge for Music.)
$125 00
Students irho spend Summer Vacation at the College are charged,
extra, $40.
SPECIAL REMARKS.
Medical attendance and medicine at physician’s charges.
Students received at any time during the year, but the most eligible
time for entering is at the beginning of a scholastic session.
Payments to be made invariably in advance.
Class-books, etc., furnished at current prices.
No expenditure for clothing or advances for pocket-money will be
made by the Institution unless an equivalent sum of money be depos-
ited with the Treasurer of the College.
No money refunded to the student leaving the University unless in
case of dismissal, or when the departure is unavoidable on account of
some grave reasons, of which the authorities of the University are the
Students are not permitted to keep money in their possession.
Whatever pocket-money parents may choose to allow their sons must
be placed in the hands of the Treasurer.
Each student, on entering, should be provided with—
6 Shirts, 4 pairs of Drawers,
12 Pocket Handkerchiefs,
12 Pairs of Stockings,
2 Hats, 2 Caps,
6 Towels, 6 Napkins,
3 Pairs of Boots or Shoes,
2 Suits of Clothes for Winter,
2 Suits of Clothes for Summer,
1 Overcoat,
1 Table Knife and Fork,
1 Table Spoon, 1 Tea Spoon,
Combs, Brushes, etc., for toilet.
N. B.—Express charges on parcels to students should be prepaid.
At Notre Dame are Offices of the Western Union Telegraph Co.,
U. S. Express Company, and American Express Company.
| Course of Studies.
j	----»	-----
i
;	CLASSICAL COURSE.
i
I
Students entering the Course are expected to be able to read, write and
spell, at least passably, besides having an elementary knowl-
edge of Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
L—LATIN.
1	Grammar—As far as the end of Regular Conjugations.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
3	Historia Sacra.
II.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geography
of the United States, including outlines of Physical Geography.
* —Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Hassard.
5	Penmanship.
ill—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive,) in Progressive Practical Arith-
metic.—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology completed.
—Harkness.
2	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.—Hark-
ness.
3	Fables—New Latin Reader—Harkness.
20	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II	— ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Etymology Completed-General Rules of Syntax.
— Ilarrey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa, includ-
ing Outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier,
4	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.
—Hassard.
o Penmanship.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbeis
(exclusive), Progressive Practical Arithmetic.—Robinson.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Etymology reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to
Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3	Roman History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II.-GREEK. ?
1	Grammar—From beginning to the Verb.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek Ollendorff.—Kendrick.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Higher
Arithmetic.—Robinson.
1
2
3
1
2
o
O
4
1
2
o
O
1
2
1
2
->
•)
4
1
2
o
*)
CLASSICAL COURSE.	21
SECOND SESSION.
I	.—LATIN.
Grammar—Syntax.—Ha; 'kness.
Exercises—Second Part completed - Introduction to Latin Compo-
sition.—Ha)-kness.
Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II	.—GREEK.
Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.—Goodwin.
Exercises—From 26th to 61st Lesson—Greek Ollendorff.—Kendrick.
Jacobs’ Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.—Casserly.
Gospel of St. John—Selections by the Teacher.
III	.—ENGLISH.
Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.
—Harvey.
Letter Writing.
Penmanship.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
Arithmetic—(completed) From Percentage to Involution—Higher
Ar ithm e tic.—Rob h i soi i.
Algebra—(Begun) to Simple Equations—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
St. Ambrose—Extracts.
Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and review.—Goodwin.
Exercises-Twenty-five Exercises, First Greek Book.—S-penceiA
Arnold.
Anabasis—First Book.
I
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	General Study of Syntax.—Harvey and Brown.
2	Exercises—Composition.
3	Ancient History—To the Partition of Alexander's Empire.—Fredel.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Involution to the end.—Robinson.
2	Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive)-
University Algebra.—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I	.—LATIN.
1	St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.
2	Caesar—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Third Part—Introduction to Latin Composition Com-
pleted.—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
II	.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.—Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.—Spencer’s
Arnold.
3	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
.	III.—ENGLISH.
1 Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.
—Harvey and Brown.
2 Ancient History—From the Partition of Alexander’s Empire to the
end.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Algebra—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required- to pass a
strict examination in all the Studies of the three Preparatory Years,
unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty and pro-
nounced. satisfactory.
-	-	- ■ -	------------J
CLASSICAL COURSE.	23 !
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Lactantius—De Opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
2	Virgil—Six Eclogues.
3	Sallust—Catiline.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.—Casserly.
5	Exercises—Prose Composition.
IL—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Syntax.—Goodicin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
3	Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays—Hari.
2	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Algebra—(completed)—From Series to the end—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
2	Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION
I.—LATIN.	.
1	Ovid—First and Thirteenth Books of Metamorphoses.
2	Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—Rules Completed.—Casserly.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
2	St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
3	Cyropsedia—First Book.
4	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Composition.
'	—Spencer’s Arnold.
’ 24	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ill—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the encl, with Review of
Composition—Essays.—Hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredei.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed)—Solid — Loomis.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	zEneicl—Virgil—Three Books.
2	Cicero's Orations—For the Poet Archias.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition
4	Prosody—From Rules to Versification—Casserly.
5	Verses.
II.—GREEK.
1	St. Gregory—Machabees.
2	Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—Essays—Hart.
IV—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Conic Sections—Review.—Loomis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the Human Body,
and Nutrition.—Huxley and Youmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
1 History of England.—Burke’s Ling ar d.
CLASSICAL COUR.SE.	25
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
2	Horace—Odes.
3	Cicero—De Senectute.
4	Exercises—Selected.
5	Prosody—Casserly.
6	Verses.
IL—GREEK.
1	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucydides—Pirst Book.
3	Exercises—Selected.	,
III—ENGLISH.	|
1 English Literature—(Continued) Hart.	j
IV.—MATHEMATICS.	'
1 Trigonometry—The entire Subject, including Mensuration.—Loomis. j
'	I
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.	i
1 Human Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.—HiiHey and
Youmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
1 History of England—BwVPs Lingard.
i
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Livy—Two Books.
2	Horace—Satires and Epistles. ’
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject — Bojessem
IL—GREEK.
1	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
3	Homer—Odyssey.
4	Exercises—Selected.
IIL-ENGLISH.
1	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY
1	Logic.—Jouin.
V	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Botany—Structural Botany.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Mechanics, Acoustics and Heat.
2	Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.—Burlier.
SECOND SESSION
I.—LATIN.
1	Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
IL—GREEK.
1	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
2	JEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
4	Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
IIL-ENGLISH.
1	Elocution.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—J^b'urn.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
1 Ontology and Psychology.—Jouin.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Botany—Systematic Botany.—Gray.
VI.-PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics — Optics, Magnetism and Electricity.
2	Chemistry - Inorganic Chemistry. - Barker.
CLASSICAL COURSE. '	27
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintillian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato—Orito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Theodicy and Ethics.—Louin.
2	Dissertation.
&
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological.—Leconte.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy to Eclipses.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2	Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
IL—GREEK.
1	Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Aristophanes - Selections.
4	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
28	university or notre dame.
___________________________________________________________
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by Professor.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Paleontology.—Leconte.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
N. B.—During the last four years of this course, students have
! an opportunity of attending Lectures on Historical, Literary, and
Scientific subjects.
ELECTIVE STUDIES.
Commercial—Book-keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing—(Figure. Landscape, Mechanical and
Architectural.)
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying.
Dogma.
As—
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
PREPARATORY YEARS.
Note.—The Studies of these years are the same as in the first tiro
years of the Classical Course. except that Latin and Greek may be
replaced by one of the Modern Languages.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
1	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2	Ancient History—To Partition of Alexander’s Empire.—Fredct.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with the subject matter of
History.—Mitchell.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
1	Algebra—(Completed) From Series (inclusive) to the end—Univer-
sity Algebra.—Robinson.
2	Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Human Anatomy and Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the
Human Body—Nutrition—Mivart and Huxley.
2	Botany—Structural Botany.—Gray.
IV.-LANGUAGES.
1. French, German or Latin*—(See Course of Modern Languages.)
.	V.—DRAWING.
1. Linear Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of
Composition.—Essays.—Hart.
* Students preferring to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades of
the Classical Course.	'
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
2	Ancient History—From the Founding of the City of Rome to the
end—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with subject matter of History.
—Mitchell.
1	Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed) Geometry of Space (Solid
and Spherical.)—Loon bis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Human Anatomy and Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.
—Mioart and Huxley.
2 Botany—Systematic Botany.—Gray.	'
IV.-LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
1 Architectural Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—Entire Subject.—Hart.
2	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
H.->MATHEMATICS.
1 Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Geometry—(Conic Sections.)—Loomis.
2	Zoology—Structural Zoology.—Orton.
IV.-LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
1 Machine Drawing.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
31
1
2
Q
o
1
1
2
1
1
1
2
1
2
1
1
1
2
SECOND SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
English Literature—(Continued)—Hart.
Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
ID-MATHEMATICS.
Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.—GiLopte.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
Zoology—Systematic Zoology.—Orton.
Biology.—Huxley and Martin.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages.)
V	.—DRAWING.
Free Hand Drawing.
JUNIOR YEAR.
*	FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
II	. -PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics and Heat.—Norton.
Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.— Youmans.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals.—Collins.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French, German, or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages )
V	.-DRAWING.
Theory—Isometry.— Warren's Plane Projection.
Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and Sepia.
32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
L-AIATHEMATICS.
General Geometry and Calculus.
2 Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
II.-PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary) Optics, Magnetism and Electricity.— Norton.
2	Chemistry—Elementary—Inorganic Chemistry. * Youmans.
III.--NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.—Collins.
IV.-LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Perspective.
2	Practice—Exercises in the use of Water Colors.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.	•
1	Descriptive Geometry—Davies.
2	Geodesy—Field Practice.—Henck.
3	Mechanics—Statics—Smith.
II.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Logic—Entire Subject.—Lounge and Coo/jer.
III.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.	.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Leconte.
V.-LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages)
VL—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Aerial Perspective and Decorative Art.
2	Practice—Use of Water-Colors, etc.
«	i
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
SECOND SESSION.
I.-MATHEMATICS.
1	Shades and Shadows.—Davies.
2	Geodesy.
3	Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics.—Smith.
II.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Ethics and Metaphysics.—Lounge.
Ill—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Paleontology.—Leconte.
V.—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages.)*
ELECTIVE STUDIES.
Languages.—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts.—Painting,
Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music.—Vocal and Instrumental.
Dogma.
Any Student in this Course is at liberty to take any of these Studies at
any period of his Course, provided he can do so consistently with his
regular studies. In addition to the regular recitations and practical
illustrations in the Natural and Physical Sciences, Lectures are given
throughout the Course by the Professors.
* It must be remembered that whichever of the Four Languages, viz.: French.
German, Latin or Greek, is taken up at the beginning of the Freshman Year,
must be continued to the end of the Course, or till satisfactorily known.
I
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAAIE.
Civil Engineering.
Candidates for admission into this Course must pass a thorough
examination in the Chemistry and Physics of the Scientific Course
and in the several branches of Pure and Mixed Mathematics, be-
sides Grammar, Rhetoric, History, Geography, and Geology. The
Course requires one year, as follows :
FIRST SESSION.
I.-DRAWING.	'
1	Theory—Shades, Shadows, etc.—Advanced Course in Perspective.
2	Practice—Topographical Drawing.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—(Begun)—Malum.
2	Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
3	Pure Mathematics—Calculus reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
L-DRAWING.
Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone-Cutting.
IL-APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—Concluded.—Malum.
2	Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
3	Hydraulics.


DEPARTMENT
OF
Natural and Physical Science.
j Students wishing to pursue a Scientific course will find every facility
I for doing so at Notre Dame. Fully aware of the demands of the age,
! the authorities have spared neither pains nor expense to meet all the
requirements of the student of the Physical and Natural Sciences.
The Physical Cabinet
contains an extensive collection of apparatus of the latest style and
most improved construction. Several of them were on exposition at
। the Centennial, and obtained for those who exhibited them the highest
i awards given for physical instruments. Among these may be men-
tioned Konig’s Apparatus for analyzing sound, electrical and optical
apparatus by Edgerton, instruments for projection, etc. Besides the
apparatus designed for subjective use and for experimental purposes
in the class-room, there is a large number of select instruments for
lecture purposes, especially for illustrating those interesting branches
of Physics, Acoustics, Optics, Magnetism, and Electro-Magnetism, and
Statical and Dynamical Electricity. In Acoustics, the instruments for
studying the origin and nature of sound, the existence and interference
of vibrations, together with the beautiful apparatus designed by Lissa-
jous, Konig and others for the observation of sonorous vibrations by
the optical and stroboscopic method, and by means of manometric
flames, are of the most improved character. The instruments for
illustrating Optics are also most select and complete. Besides the
stereopticons, vertical lanterns, microscopes, spectroscopes, etc., for
projection, there is a large number of slides, transparencies, and prep-
arations for illustrating the various branches of Physical and Natural
Science, Astronomy, Architecture, Art, etc. The apparatus for the
study of spectrum analysis—including a fine Heidelberg spectroscope,
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
a collection of Pliicker tubes for obtaining the spectra of gases and
vapors—prisms, lenses, and other apparatus for projecting spectra on
the screen, as well as those used in studying the phenomena of the
double refraction and polarization of light, should also be mentioned.
For studying statical and dynamical electricity, magnetism, and
electro-magnetism, there is a large number of electrical machines, and
batteries of different kinds, coils, helices, magnets, electro-magnets,
galvanometers, thermo-electric multipliers, Geisler tubes, rotators,
magno-electric and electro-magnetic machines, telegraph apparatus,
i telephones, etc.
The Chemical Laboratory
is fitted up with all the appliances necessary for the successful study
of General Chemistry and Chemical Analysis. As in the Physical
Cabinet, additions are constantly being made to the Laboratory, and
it will be the object of the authorities to make it in all its details as
complete and perfect as possible.
The Museum of Natural History
embracing large and rare geological, mineralogical, zoological and
botanical collections, is as complete in all its arrangements as the
student could desire.
The Mineralogical Cabinet
contains a large collection of minerals from all parts of the world. It
is especially rich in specimens illustrating the crystalline structure,
i modes of occurrence, etc., of the various ores and minerals, and em-
; braces a large number of magnificent specimens of pellucid quartz crys-
tals, cairngorm stone, amethyst, agate, jasper, sardonyx, chalcedony,
I geodes of various kinds, calcite of all the principal crystalline forms,
; amazon stone, fluorspar, mica, tourmaline, beryl, Jdendrite, selenite,
| garnet, the various ores of gold, silver, iron, copper, lead, zinc, as well
! as of the other metals of rarer occurrence. For the practical study of
* the physical properties of minerals, the student of mineralogy will find
I in this collection all he could wish for. Besides this, there is also a
rich store of specimens for blow-pipe analysis.
PHYSICAL AND NATURAL SCIENCES.	37
The Geological Cabinet
is very complete, both in the number and character of the specimens
it contains. It embraces fossils of all the geological formations, both
of this country and Europe. Among them are many unusually well
preserved, and of more than ordinary size. In a word, it is furnished
with all the specimens that the student needs to make the study of
Geology easy and interesting.
Pofiblar Lectures on the Physical and Natural Sciences
form one of the most interesting features in connection with the
Scientific Department. These are intended mainly for those students
who cannot or who do not wish to take up the Scientific Course, but
who nevertheless desire to have a general knowledge of the leading
facts and principles oi the Physical and Natural Sciences. All these
lectures, especially those on Physics and Chemistry, are illustrated
experimentally; and, to attain most effectually the object in view, the
best of apparatus and specimens, especially those designed for pro-
jection, have been secured. This method of popularizing Science is,
we believe, peculiar to Notre Dame, not having yet been introduced,
at least as far as we are aware, in any other college in the country.
All who have had an opportunity of judging of its results speak of it
with praise and commendation.
Donations to the fftuseum.
A CARD OF THANKS.
The Curator of the Museum most gratefully acknowledges donations
during the past year, of valuable specimens of Natural History from
the following persons:
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., a number of valuable specimens of gold
and silver ores from the Black Hills.
Mr. M. S. Foote, a collection of shells and minerals.
Thomas Shortis,'Toronto, Canada, a classified collection of Canadian
ores and minerals.
Hon. Judge Dunne, LL.D., Chicago, Ill., fossils and minerals from
Utah Territory.
Mr. A. D. Tourtillotte, Toledo, 0., a very complete collection of
silver ores from Carbonate City, N. M.
Mr. P. Ruppe, Hancock, Mich., a collection of fine specimens from
the Lake Superior Copper and Silver mines.
Col. E. Otis, IL S. A., an interesting collection of minerals and fossils
from Dakota.
Master W. F. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis., a collection of fossils
from the Wisconsin Lime-stone formations.
Mr. D. McCarthy, Maloin, Ark., quartz crystals, from Hot Springs,
Arkansas.
Master D. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo., Jas Norfleet, Tarboro, N. C.,
IV. Cleary, Covington, Ky., N. Nelson, Chicago, Ill., for valuable
miscellaneous contributions.
To other kind friends, also, who have in various ways rendered him
material aid in increasing his collections, the Curator returns his most
sincere thanks.
DONATIONS TO THE MUSEUM.	39
AN appeal:
One of the greatest losses occasioned by the disastrous fire that
laid the College buildings in ashes was the almost total destruc-
tion of the
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY.
I All the valuable collections of years were consumed,—only a small
collection of specimens that happened to be in an out-building
being spared. In order to repair this loss as far and as speedily
as possible, the Curator of the Museum respectfully solicits the aid
< and co-operation of the friends and old students of Notre Dame,
i —of those especially who live in mining districts, or where speci-
!	mens of Natural History can be readily obtained. He would be
particularly obliged for specimens of
j	MIN ERA LS,	F OSSILS,
Shells,	Corals,
Alcoholic Preparations,
Indian Relics, Etc., Etc.
All collections, however small, will be thankfully received and
duly acknowledged in the columns of the Scholastic. All contribu-
tions should be sent to
;	Rev. J. A. ZAHM, C. S. C., Curator of Museum,
!	Notre Dame, Indiana.
Law Department.
; All the branches necessary for a good legal education are included
i in the Course. The Common Law System of Pleading and practice
is taught. The course of studies in this Department embraces,
chiefly, Constitutional and International Law, Municipal Law. Law
of Contracts, Equity Jurisprudence, Criminal Law, Evidence, Plead-
ing, and Practice.
For the purpose of acquiring a practical as well as a theoretical
knowledge of the legal profession, the students shall, during the
Course, be required to argue cases, draw up pleadings, and conduct
Law and Chancery suits according to the rules and formalities of
regular courts of justice.
As it is a matter of the highest importance to a young lawyer that
on being admitted to the practice of his profession he should be able
to express himself clearly and fluently, full opportunity will be offered
for cultivating the art of public speaking. As one means of attaining
this end, and for the purpose of familiarizing the student with the
practical workings of his future profession, Moot Courts, under the
direction of a Professor, will be frequently held during the Course.
For the cultivation of other kinds of eloquence, still further facilities
are afforded in the various Literary and Debating Societies of the
University.
The entire Course for those commencing the study of the Law is
intended to be completed in two years, divided into four terms, which
correspond with those of the other departments of the University.
Every applicant for admission into this Department is expected to
have, at least, a complete English education. It is very desirable that
he should also have a Classical training before commencing the study
of the Law; nevertheless, those who may not possess this advantage
will, without extra charge, be offered ample opportunities for acquiring
a knowledge of the Classics while pursuing their legal studies.
Students intending to follow the Law Course may enter at any
time, but it is more advisable and profitable for them to present them-
selves at the beginning of a term.
The students will be required to pass an examination at the close of
each term, and to present an essay of not more than seven pages of
LAW DEPARTMENT.	41
legal cap, on some of the matters which they shall have seen, and fur-
thermore to give proof of proficiency in Rhetoric, English Literature,
and Logic, before being allowed to graduate. The notes of the special
examinations and essays, as well as those of the application and gen-
eral standing of the members in class throughout the Law Course,
will be placed to their respective credits in the result of the final
examination for the degree of LL. B. The following comprises a list
of the authors generally read during the course: Walker’s American
Law; Blackstone’s Commentaries ; Parsons’ Contracts; Greenleaf’s
, Evidence; Washburn on Real Property; Stephen on Pleading;
Equity Jurisprudence—Story; Constitutional Law; Criminal Law—
Bishop.
ifommercial Department.
It will be seen that the course requires two years’ study for gradua-
tion ; it includes arithmetic, grammar and letter-writing, geography,
United States history, reading, spelling, penmanship, book-keeping,
and Commercial Law,—that is, a complete business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, especially the
great West in which we live, this Course is the most practical, and
one of the most important that an educational institution can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or the means to take a com-
plete college course, in the Classics and the Sciences, would do well to
enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of study is
more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such studies as an in-
experienced student may fancy. The consistent training resulting
from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received the
most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commercial
Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the graduates
of this course a more complete business training than can be obtained
in any commercial college. Believing that a business education in-
cludes something more than a mere knowledge of Book-keeping, and
; 42	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
; that a good education cannot be had in a few weeks, this course has
; been extended over two years, the shortest time in which the studies
। necessarily used in business life can be mastered. Should a student
desire during this period to take up any other studies in which he
may be interested, and for which he has time, he will have liberty
to do so. General history and linear drawing are especially recom-
mended to the students of this course. Many commercial students
find it also to their advantage to take up the study of German or
French, for which there are the amplest facilities. A talented and
studious young man may thus in the course of two years find himself
i in possession of a most valuable practical education, which will fit
। him to take his place in the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Both Sessions.
1	Arithmetic—Same as First Year Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Year Preparatory in
Classical Course.
3	Geography—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate Pre-
paratory Course1 (Eclectic Series).
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Col-
legiate Preparatory Course.—ILasxurft.
5	Reading and Orthography.
b Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
First Session.
1	Arithmetic—Same as First Session of Second Year Preparatory in
Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Session of Second
Year Preparatory in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory sets by Double En-
try.—Notre Dame System.—Tony.
5	Penmanship. „
Second Session.
1	Arithmetic—(Completed)—As in 2d Session Second Year Preparatory.
MODERN LANGUAGES.	43 '
।
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as 2d Session of Second Year Prepara-
tory in Classical Course.	,
3	Orthography.	j
4	Book-Keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamhoating, etc.—Notre i
Dame System.—Tony.
5	Commercial Law.
6	Penmanship.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces the
following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:—Prepar-
atory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry;
1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of Merchandise on Pri- ;
vate Account; 2d Series, On account of others; 3d Series, Buying and ’
Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th Series, Importing and Export-
ing on private account, on account of others, and account of ourselves , j
and others in company; 5th Series, Deceiving and forwarding Mer- i
chandise, the management and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts, '
Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting
and Paying Bills of Exchange, Banking—Private and Joint Stock— i
Steamboating, Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, ।
Mechanics’ Accounts. The whole Course illustrating the opening, !
conducting and closing of stock and partnership books—gaining and I
losing business, etc., etc. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Law. j
Particular attention is paid to the explanation of the Law of Nego- i
tiable paper.	,
i
bourse of JRobern Languages.
GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
First Session.	;
1 Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—One Hundred Exercises.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
Second Session.
1 Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—Fri>m the 100th to the
200th Exercise.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND YEAR.
First Session.
1	Alm's Second German Book.
2	First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
Second Session.
1	Ahn's Second German Book.
2	First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
THIRD YEAR.
First Session
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—100 Exercises.
2	Drittes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Practische Anfsatzlehre, No. 1.
Second Session.
1 Ahn’s Third German Book—to the end.
«	2 Drittes Lesebnch.
3 Sommer’s Practische Anfsatzlehre, No. 2.
FOURTH YEAR.
First Session.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Viertes Lesebnch.
3	Sommer’s Practische Anfsatzlehre, No. 3.
Second Session.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the end.
2	Viertes Lesebuch.
3	Sommer’s Practische Anfsatzlehre, No. 4.
4	Compositions, and Introduction to German Classics.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
MODERN LANGUAGES.	45
FRENCH.
FIRST YEAR.
First Session.
1	Fasquelle's Introductory French. Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fiva’s Elementary French Reader.—Twenty pages.
3	Orthography.
Second Session.
1	Fasquelle's Introductory French Course. - Thirty-nine Lessons - Reg-
ular Verbs.
2	De Fiva’s Reader - To the end.
3	Orthography. 
SECOND YEAR.
First Session.
1	Fasquelle's French Course.—Forty-five Lessons, and from page 261
to page 357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet's Literature.
3	Letter-Writing.
Second Session.
1	Fasquelle's French Course.—From 46th Lesson to end of First Pari,
from page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litt^rature Contemporaine.—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition
THIRD YEAR.
First Session.
1	Gramniaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises - Etymology.
2	Litt6rature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
Second Session.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Telemaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other Modem
Languages.
Specialties.
I	Post-Graduate Course.
The Students in this Course occupy themselves with Philosophy
History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law, Medicine and
Civil Engineering are optional studies of the Course.
Lain Department.
! We trust to see our Law Department better and better attended
; year after year. We have every reason to be proud of the young men
, who each year have sought the classic retirement of Notre Dame to
pursue their Law Studies. We shall endeavor to make their sojourn
' among us au agreeable one, and give them every facility for study.
i	Civil Engineering.
This important Course has long been thoroughly established, and
■ affords advanced students the opportunity of fitting themselves for
; the practice of this eminent profession.
;	Languages.
O cD
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of which is so
frequent and necessary fbr business or scientific purposes.
The German Language—the classes of which are so numerously
. attended—has been taught by five Professors during the past scholas-
tic year. The number of German students attending the University
is becoming greater every year. The French Language—though
more especially the language of the Collegiate Course—will be of
great advantage to the Scientific student. Other languages—such as
Italian and Spanish—may be taught when required.
।	Telegraphy.
This branch invites the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. The Telegraph Department is fully organized,
and is placed under the management of a skilful electrician. Notre
i
SPECIALTIES.	47
Dame is now in direct communication with South Bend and the rest
of the world by electric wires.
Anatomy and Materia Medic a.
Young men desiring to study for the Medical profession will find
opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Studies in this
Department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy, and Surgery. As
a Preparatory Course, that which is given here, under L. Neyron,
M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de Medicine, Lyons, leaves nothing to
be desired.
Drama- and Painting.
The University enjoys means adequate to all demands in this
branch. It possesses a large number of models in all sorts of drawing,
a fine Studio, and qualified and zealous teachers of the art. The
services of the eminent artist, Signori Luigi Gregori, have been secured
| for the coming year.
|	Music.
i
i This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has able
Professors, and is divided into classes (n the regular Conservatory
system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent Quartette,
and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are some of the leading
features of the Musical Department.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid during the
| past year, will receive even more careful attention in future, and it is
hoped that this branch will become every year more popular among
the students.
;	' Astronomical Observatory.
A temporary Astronomical Observatory has been erected, in which
the fine instrument presented by the Emperor Napoleon has been
placed. The studies of the class of Astronomy are now rendered
practically interesting.
Libraries.
The College Library which, before the fire, contained upwards of
thirteen thousand volumes, now numbers seven thousand. Within
the last year a reading-room has been opened in connection with this
Library, in which the following periodicals are to be found on file,
4*	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
viz.: Appleton’s eJournal, Atlantic Monthly, Lippincott’s Magazine,
Harper’s Magazine, Scribner’s Magazine, Cornhill Magazine, Mac-
millau’s Magazine, Geological Magazine, Blackwood’s Magazine,
International Review, North-American Review, British Review, Edin-
burgh Review, London Review, Westminster Review, Contemporary
Review, Fortnightly Review, XIX Century, Le Correspondant, Le
Contemporain, Revue Catholique, Athenaeum, Academy, Scientific
American, Science Review, Dublin Review, Lamp, Catholic Quar-
terly, and Catholic World. All contributions of books, pamphlets,
periodicals, etc., should be addressed to the Librarian, Notre Dame
University, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Lemonnier Library, for the use of the students of the College,
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now num-
bers nearly 5,000 volumes. The members of the Library Association
desire to give their Alma Mater a collection of books which can
stand comparison with those possessed by the other educational estab-
lishments of the United States, therefore they call on the friends of
the University to assist them, by donations of books, pamphlets,
periodicals and manuscripts. All contributions should be addressed
to Librarian, Lemonnier Library, Notre Dame University, Notre
Dame, Indiana.
Card of Thanks.—The Lemonnier Library Association of Notre
Dame University return grateful acknowledgment for the following
donations, received from June 1, 1880, to June 1, 1881 :
Rev. D. A. Clarke, A. M., ’72, Prescott’s Works, 15 vols. ; Mrs. P.
Morrison, Jackson, Mich., Miss Strickland’s Queens of England, 6 vols.;
A. Zahm, ’82, Hart’s German Universities; Mr. E. Kitz, Indianapolis,
Ind., Meehan’s Native Flowers and Ferns of the United States, Illus-
trated; Rev. W. Hayes, Columbus, Ohio, Dissertation on the State of
the Dead (manuscript), Lever’s Works, 28 vols., Froissart’s Chronicles,
Ballads of Ireland; Mr. Eliot Ryder, Father Burke’s Lectures, 3 vols.,
FevaFs Jesuits, set N. Y. Cathedral Fair Journal, Poe’s Works, 4 vols.,
Caxton’s Book, Political Works, 4 vols., Miscellaneous, 14 vols.;
Master J. Willie Start, Juvenile Stories, 3 vols.; W. J. Arnold, ’82,
Washington, D. C., Lord Bacon’s Works, 3 vols ; Manly Tello, Cleve-
land, Ohio, subscription to Catholic Universe; Mr. Edward Forrester,
’69, Laporte, Ind., complete set of the Metropolitan Magazine, 6 vols.;
Miss Levina Forrester, Gibbon’s Rome, 6 vols.; Albert Gall, Esq.,
SPECIALTIES.
49
Indianapolis, Green’s History of the English People, Lamb’s Complete
Works, 3 vols., Justin M‘Carthy’s History of Our Own Times, 2 vols.,
Miscellaneous, 3 vols.; Mrs. H. Fendrick, Evansville, Ind., a com-
plete set of Francis Parkman’s Works, 8 vols.; Lieut.-Col. Lailas,
U. S. A., Alnambi Uli Awikhegan, or, Indian Good Book, Vetromile,
Williamson’s Dakota Vocabulary, Dictionnaire et Grammaire de la
Langue des Cris, par Pere Lacombe; Very Bev. A. Granger, C. S. C ,
Index • to Brownson’s Review, Miscellaneous Works, 100 vols.;
Students of the Library Association, 500 vols.; Mrs. M. Bhodius, In-
dianapolis, Ind., Bawlinson’s Herodotus, 4 vols., Crevier’s Boman Em-
perors, 10 vols., Hone’s Works, 4 vols., Stewart’s Scotland, 2 vols.,
Miscellaneous, 8 vols. ; Mrs. I. Mann, New York, MacLeod’s Works,
3 vols., Poems by Fr. Byan, Hill, Hernans, Aubrey de Vere, 4 vols.,
Miscellaneous, 18 vols. ; Miss A. Hemenway, Burlington, Vt, 6 vols.;
Col. Olis, U.S.A, 100 vols.
Lecture Course.	'
There are a great many students who, owing to different causes,
progress but slowly in the acquisition of knowledge in the class-room,
but who in the lecture-hall advance most rapidly, whilst all gain a
more comprehensive and practical perception of the various branches
of Science when clearly and concisely elucidated by the discourse of
an experl. The importance of Lectures has, therefore, never been
overlooked at Notre Dame, and the authorities of the University
have devoted particular attention to the organizing and developing of
Lecture Courses on all the more important studies of the Institution.
Students, therefore, have every facility, without any interruption of
classes, to assist at regular Lectures on Philosophical, Historical,
Literary and Scientific subjects. In this respect, the success reached
during the past few years forms an epoch in our educational training,
and there is every reason for believing that the future will witness
still greater triumphs.’
. (Catalogue of Stubents
From September 1880, to June 1881.
Adams, Charles.......Michigan.
Anderson, Robert M.. Ohio.
Ayers, William ......Ohio.
Ackerman, Hubert.. .Indiana.
Arnold, Win. H......D. 0.
Aveline, John B.....Indiana.
Archer, Patrick....Illinois.
Browne, Joseph P... .Texas.
Browne, William I.. .Texas.
Browne, Albert A.... Texas.
Bennett, Charles W.. .Illinois.
Bennett, James.........Indiana.
Bender, John...........Illinois.
Bender, Bard...........Illinois.
Boose, John............Ohio.
Boone, Frank...................... . Ohio.
Baker, Frank J.........Indiana.
Bell, Frank M..........Ohio.
Berthelet, Wm. F... .Wisconsin.
Brinkman, Chas ........Indiana.
Bloom, Frank W.........Indiana.
Butler, V. G...........Illinois.
Butler, M. G...........Illinois.
Burns, Jas. H..........Ohio.
Byrnes, T. P...........Indiana.
Brehmer, Chas. A... .Michigan.
Bodine, A. A...........Kentucky.
Bodine, A..............Kentucky.
Barron, Wm. H..........Illinois.
Bagard, Ed. G..........Michigan.
Bloch, Moses...........Ohio.
Bourbonia. Thos........Kansas.
Berry, Wm. F.........Kentucky.
Becerra, Raphael.....Mexico.
Cooney, William......Illinois.
Castenado, Gardner.. Louisiana.
Courtney, James......D. 0.
Courtney, Joseph.....D. C.
Clements, Louis E.... Kentucky.
Cullinene, Thomas. • .Michigan.
Casey, John..........Penn.
Casey, Bernard.......Penn.
Casey, Jerome........Penn.
Coghlin, Amadeus.... Ohio.
Cabel, John V........Indiana.
Costello, Robert.....Michigan.
Coghlin, William L. ..Ohio.
Cannon, Walter J.... Wy'm'g Ter.
Croarkin, Edward... .Michigan.
Cullinane,Eugene... .Michigan.
Clarke, George.......Illinois.
Cannon, James........Illinois.
Chaves, Jose.........K. Mexico.
Cavanaugh, Wm........Indiana.
Cleary, W.W..........Kentucky.
Clarke, Thos. F......Ohio.
Chirhart, Alfred.....Indiana.
Chirhart, Edward... .Indiana.
Cantwell, Francis... .Penn.
Calligari, Louis F... .Louisiana.
Campau, Alex. J Michigan.
Campau, Philip.......Michigan.
Campau, Edwin C... .Michigan.
Claffey, Daniel C....Michigan.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	51
Colyar, A. S..........Tenn.
Dunn, Harry P.........Alabama.
Dick, August Chas... .Indiana.
DeHaven, George.... Illinois.
Delany, James.........Penn.
Dwenger, Joseph H. .Indiana.
Dever, Frank..........Kentucky.
Dorsel, Frank H.......Kentucky.
Droste Charles .......Ohio.
Devitt Henry.......... Illinois.
Devitt, Michael.......Illinois.
Devitt, James ........Illinois.
Dulaney, Hector B... Illinois.
Dennis, Arthur........New York.
Denehy, Daniel........Illinois.
Echlin, Chas. C.......California.
Ewing, Neal H.........Ohio.
English, Denis........Iowa.
Eaton, W. B...........Indiana.
Flynn, Alfred.........New Jersey.
Farrelly, Fred...............Illinois.
Falvey, Mark..........Indiana.
Falvey, James M.. .. Indiana.
Frain, Joseph.........Indiana.
Flinn, Thomas F.......Iowa.
Flinn, John M.........Iowa.
Farrell, John.........Michigan.
Fleming, Robert E... Kentucky.
Fendrich, John H.... Indiana.
Fishburne, Warren.. .Illinois.
Fishel, Edward........Tenn.
Fishel, Fred..........Tenn.
Friedman, Jacob.......Illinois.
Florman, Louis........Dakota.
Gordon, Joseph J......Illinois.
Gibert, Leon G........Louisiana.
Godfrey, Francis......Indiana.
Gall, Edward..........Indiana.
Gall, Albert..........Indiana.
Guthrie, John W.....Iowa.
Garrity, Frank......U. S. Army.
Grever, Frank H.....Ohio.
Gray, W. W. Jr......Hlinois.
Groenewold, Fred.... Ohio.
Gallagher, John Ed..Ohio.
Gerlach, Edward.....Ohio.
Gaines, Edward .. .. Michigan.
Gregory, Hiram 0. -. - Indiana.
Gallagher, Frank W.. Mass.
Gorman, Adam........Illinois,
o
Hagan, Chas. L......Ohio.
Hoffmann, Peter.....W. Va.
Hoffmann, Wm........W. Va.
Hagan, George L.....Illinois.
Halloran, Janies....Indiana.
Hake, Henry.........Michigan.
Hurley, Thos. J.....Michigan.
Howard, Edward......Indiana.
Herrick, Marcus .... Michigan.
Hintze, Albert J....Wisconsin.
Hanavin, William - -. Ohio.
Henoch, Solomon.....Indiana.
Homan, Joseph.......Ohio.
Heffernan, John M..Kentucky.
Heffernan, James. - - - Kentucky.
Harrington, Denis... Mass.
Haslam, George......Ohio.
Haslam, Joseph......Ohio.
Heney, Patrick......Indiana.
Healy, Michael......Iowa.
Healy, Thomas.......Iowa.
Huddleston, Wm......Indiana.
Halthusen, Nicholas.. Colorado.
Healy, Michael......Illinois.
Hetz, W. D..........Michigan.
Hagan, Patrick J.... Ohio.
Johnson, Robert Lee. Kentucky.
Johnson, Frank......Tenn.
Jones, Wm. G........Ohio.
Jackson, Arthur F.. .Ohio.
52	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Johnson, William ...Ohio.	Mathers, Lafayette... Illinois.
Joyce, Patrick.......Indiana.	Moran, Amadeus T. -	.Michigan.
Jacobs, Edward.......Illinois.	Murdock, Chas........Indiana.
•Jones, Aaron........Indiana.	Murdock, Samuel G-	.Indiana.
Munce, Edward........Penn.
Ken gel, Frank.......Michigan.	Maguire, Philip F... .Kentucky.
Kelly, Joseph A......D. C.	Martin, John F........Michigan.
Kron, Frank..........Illinois.	Marlett, Jas. R.......Miss.
Killean, Frank .. .Michigan.	Moroney, Fred.........Indiana.
Kearney, Edward H. .Michigan.	Morse, H. W. J........Utah.
Kitz, Harry..........Indiana.	Manning, Alex.........Kentucky.
Kuhn, Ferdinand......Tenn.	Miller, Albert .......Indiana.
Kleine, Fred. A...... Ohio.	Moss, 0. A............Illinois.
Keen, Leslie S.......Indiana.	Moroney, James........Illinois.
Kelly, John AI.......Illinois.	Monohan, G. M.........Illinois.
Kelly, Walter J......Wisconsin.	Maley, Alick.H........Ohio.
Korty, Alexander-.. .Indiana. Mahan, Joseph...............Illinois.
Kavanagh, Thos............................................Iowa. McPhilips, F. X.Michigan.
Kolars, Charles C - • ..Minn.	McEIvogue, John .. ..Illinois.
Kent, John W.........Michigan.	McClarnon, Joseph E. Kentucky.
Kuhn, John W ........Indiana.	McIntyre, John A... .Wisconsin.
Kipper, George C .. - .Illinois. McDermott, Chas .. .Ohio.
Kindle, Joseph.......Ohio.	McGorrisk, Wm. B.. .Iowa.
Kempf, Oscar.........Colorado.	McGorrisk, Edward... Iowa.
McGrath, James... .Illinois.
Lebourgeois, R.......Louisiana.	McGrath, Thomas.... Illinois.
Livingston, Samuel. ..Indiana. McGrath, John. . .Illinois.
Larkin, John.........Penn.	McGrath, Edward.... Illinois.
Lamian, Harry M.... Utah.	McNamara, John. ... Iowa.
McGrath, John J. Jr.Illinois.
Molander, Gus........Illinois.	McCarthy, W. J........Missouri.
Mendel, Albert.......Illinois.	McErlaine, Jno. J .. Indiana.
Mattes, Frank........Iowa.	McDevitt, James... . Ohio.
Maher, James T.......Ohio.	McKinnon, Frank. J.Illinois.
Mahon, Wm. P.........Miss.	McCawley, Daniel L. .Indiana.
Miller, William...... Illinois.	McNulty, Michael.... Indiana.
Metz, George ........Tenn.	McEniry, M. J.........Illinois.
Metz, Henry..........Illinois.	McGinn, James.........Iowa.
Metz, Charles........Illinois.
Morrison, Frank......Michigan.	Newman, James C... Kentucky.
Molloy, John J.......Kentucky.	Nelson, Nicholas......Illinios.
Morgan, John L.......Indiana.	Noble, Harry..........Ohio.
Malone, James........Michigan.	Noonan, Jas. H . ...Mass.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	53
Norton, Wm............Indiana.	Rose,	Henry L........Indiana.
Nester, George........Michigan.	Rose,	Clinton F.......Indiana.
Nester, Jolin.........Michigan	Rose,	Janies L.......Indiana.
Nash, John............Ohio.	Rietz,	Charles.........Illinois.
Ruppe, John...........Michigan.
Orrick, Eugene C. ...Miss.	Ruppe, Joseph..........Michigan.
O'Neill, Joseph P.....U. S. Army.	Rettig, Frank J........Indiana.
O'Reilly, John........Illinois.	Ryan, Jereniiah........Illinois.
O'Donnell, Hugh S- • .Kentucky.	Ryan, Daniel...........Illinois.
Osher, Joseph.........Illinois.	Ryan, William J........Iowa
O’Kane, Frank ........Ohio.	Redmond, James.........Indiana.
O'Connor, Robt. E .. - Illinois.	Rea, Wallace...........Illinois.
O'Connor, Denis J ... .Illinois.
Otis, Elmer A.........U. S. Army.	Snee, Harry............Illinois.
Otis, Francis Ig......U. 8. Army. Schiml, Aloysius 0.. .Ohio.
Otis, Albert Joseph.. .U. 8. Army. Solon, Janies............Illinois.
Olds, Wm. AI................................................Ohio.	Steis, Henry.Indiana.
O'Donnell, Louis Indiana.	Sells, Harry...........Indiana.
Smith, William E.. .Wisconsin.
Payro, Armand.........Louisiana.	Stitzel, Louis W...... Ohio.
Perry, Charles........Illinois.	Schneider, Conrad... .Illinois.
Piper, Edward E. . .Alichigan. Schobey, James K... .Illinois.
Parrett, Richard ....Indiana.	Smith, 13. F...........Alichigan.
Proctor, Lincoln AI... Indiana.	Smith, Charles.........Illinois.
Phelps, David R.......Alichigan.	Schaefer, George. .	.Illinois.
Pollock, Benton H ... Iowa.	Simms, Harry..........Illinois.
Painter, Alexander.. .Indiana. Simms, Reuben. .. .Illinois.
Prenatt, Frank........Indiana.	Sugg, Edward......... Illinois.
Prenatt, Edward AI.. Indiana.	Sugg, George..........Illinois.
Paul, Demas...........Indiana.	Spangler, Anthony... Indiana.
Pimyotamah, A.........Indiana.	Start, J. William.....Illinois.
Powell, Jesse AI......Indiana.	Scholfield, William.. .Illinois.
Powell, Burt B..	.. Indiana. Seeburger, R. J...........Iowa.
Price, George.........Nebraska.	Silverman, George.... Illinois.
Prindivill e, Wm......AI ontana.	Scan] an, J ohn........Illinois.
Prindiville, David .. .Alontana. Smith, Francis C ... - Ohio.
Smith, Edward E.............................................Ohio.
Quinn, Joseph W.	.. .Illinois.	Smith, James J.........Ohio.
Quinn, Frank A........Illinois.	Smith, Joseph S........Ohio.
Stretch, Patrick D... .Illinois.
Rohrbach, Alfred.	... Illinois.	Smith, AI. D. C........Alichigan.
Rhodius, George........Indiana.	Schultheis, Charles... Ohio.
Ratterman, W. B.......Tenn.
54
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
.X
Tate, Ambrose........Louisiana.
Truschel, G. A.......West Va.
Tinley, Charles A....Kentucky.
Thiele, Charles......Indiana.
Tourtillotte, George. .Ohio.
Taylor, Daniel G ... .Missouri.
Thornton, Austin. .. .Penn.
Terry, S. S..........Indiana.
Taggart, E. Jackson.. Ohio.
Tracey, George.......Iowa.
Taylor, William......Indiana.
Thompson, Wm. H.. .Indiana.
Troxel, Elmer E......Michigan.
Tappan, E............Illinois.
Vedder, Martin.......Nebraska.
Van Mourick, A.......Michigan.
Van Dusen, Chas. B... Michigan.
Walsh, John .........Michigan.
J	CT
Wommer, Monty........Illinois.
Woeber, Felix........Kansas.
Wheatley, Frank......Kentucky.
Wiseheart, Alfred... .Illinois.
Wiseheart, Thomas.. .Illinois.
Ward, Frank.........Indiana.
Woodson, Guy........U. S. Army.
Williams, Thomas... - Indiana.
Whorley, Frank C .. - Tenn.
Weber, George W... Michigan.
Weny, Nicholas........Indiana.
Whelan, John F........Ohio.
Wilder, James B.......Dakota.
Wilder, Frank E.......Dakota.
Welsh, John H.........New York.
Walsh, William R... .Michigan.
Wooley, William.......Illinois.
Young, Charles........Indiana.
Young, Louis..........Indiana.
Young, William R.. .Illinois.
Yeakel, Edward........Kentucky.
Yrisarri, Eugene......N. Mexico.
Yrisarri, Paul........N. Mexico.
Zekind, Bertie........Michigan.
Zahm, Albert..........Indiana.
Zettler, Bernard......Ohio.
i£o(le^e Societies.
RELIGIOUS, LITERARY, SCIENTIFIC, etc.
RELIGIOUS.
Archeonfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the
Senior Department, has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members. It was established
in 1815.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. Fr. O’Keeffe, Director.
G. E. Clarke, President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Vice-President.
Geo. F. Sugg, Rec. Sec.
AV. H. Arnold, Cor. Sec.
A. J. Zahm, Treasurer.
W. G. Jones, Sergt.-at-Arms.
R. O’Connor, 1st Censor.
E.	McGorrisk, 2d Censor.
Second Session.
Rev. Fr. O’Keeffe, Director.
F.	W. Bloom, President.
M. J. McEniry, Vice-President.
T. F. Kavanagh, Rec. Sec.
H. O’Donnell, Cor. Sec.
D. Danahey, Treasurer.
E. McGorrisk, Sergt.-at-Arms.
G.	E. Clarke, Censor.
Archeonfraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
This Confraternity is composed of the students of the Junior
Department. It has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Very Rev. A. Granger, 0. S. 0., Very Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C.,
Director.	Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C., Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
President.	President.
■>6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
J. P. O'Neill, 1st Vice-President.
F. H. Grever, 2d Vice-President.
R. E. Fleming, Rec. Secretary.
(J. J. Brinkman, Cor. Secretary.
C. A. Tinley, Treasurer.
0.1. McDermott, 1st Censor.
J. L. Morgan, 2d Censor.
E.	C. Orrick, Sergt.-at-Arms.
F.	A. Kleine, Organist.
T. F. Flynn, Standard-Beaier.
J. P. O'Neill, 1st Vice-President.
C. A. Tinley, 2d Vice-President.
R. E. Fleming, Rec. Secretary.
F. H. G rever, Cor. Secretary.
C. I. McDermott, Treasure]'.
J. L. Morgan, 1st Censor.
J. M. Scanlan, 2d Censor.
E.	Orrick, Sergt.-at-Arms.
F.	A. Kleine, Organist.
H. Hake, Standard-Bearer.
Guardian Angels
of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded Sept. 29, 187dt, by Very Rev. Edward
Sorin, Superior-General, C. S. C. It is composed of the students of
the Minim Department. It has for its object the practice of devo-
tion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety
among its members, and to provide the Church with the servers
required at Mass, Vespers, and other Church offices. In 1875,
Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many special
Indulgences from the late. Pope Pius IX., of glorious memory.
OFFICERS.'
First Session.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.,
Director.
Very Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. 0.,
Assistant-Director.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Amandus, C. S. 0., Promoter.
D. G. Taylor, Vice-President.
H. A. Snee, Secretary.
W. Berthelet, Treasurer.
Jas. M. Courtney, Librarian.
C. 0. Echlin, 1st Censor.
J. H. Dwenger, 2d Censor.
W. F. Hanavin, Standard-Bearer.
R. Costello, Sergt.-at-Arms.
Second Session.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C..
Director.
Very Rev. Alexis Granger, C.S. 0..
Assistant-Director.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Amandus, C. S. 0., Promoter.
D. G. Taylor, Vice-President.
C. J. Droste, Secretary.
J. H. Dwenger, Treasurer.
H. A. Snee, Librarian.
J as. Courtney, 1st Censor.
A. J. Campau, 2d Censor.
P. Yrisarri, Standard-Bearer.
W. Berthelet, Sergt.-at-Arms.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.	57
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the Christian world to contribute their share
towards the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of
heathenism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggre-
gate is considerable—while thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. A. Granger, Director.
Bro. Amandus, C. S. C., President. G. P. Van Mourick, ) n
W. Berthelet, Secretary.	C. E. Droste, ) bensois.
M. W. Olds. Treasurer.	W. Hanavin, ) T .
'	J. A. Kelly, f Libranans.
LITERARY.
Associated Alumni.
OFFICERS, ETC., 1880-81.
Honorary President—Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. 0.
President—Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D., ’52.
1st Vice-President—Wm. Ivers, ’66.
2d Vice-President - Rev. D. A. Clarke, '70.
Secretary—E. B. Devoto, ’76.
Treasurer—J. A. Lyons, ’62.
Historian — J. J. Coleman, ’77.
Orator —Rev. E. J. McLaughlin, '75.
Alternate—Jno. P. McHugh, ’72. ’
Poet—T. E. Howard, ’62.
Alternate—Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851 (originally under
the name of the St. Aloysius’ Literary and Historical Society), is
the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate
58
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
knowledge of history. It is essentially a literary and debating
Society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in
writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. Thomas. E. Walsh, 0. S. 0.,
President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Vice-President.
G. E. Olarke, Rec. Secretary
G. F. Sugg, Cor. Secretary.
P. J. Hagan, Treasurer.
F.	W. Bloom, Historian.
W. H. Arnold, Censor.
Second Session.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
President.
W. B. McGorrisk, Vice-President.
G.	E. Clarke, Rec. Secretary.
F.	W. Bloom, Cor. Secretary.
W. H. Arnold, Treasurer.
G.	F. Sugg, Censor.
M. J. McEniry, Historian.
St. Cecilia Pb-ilomathean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the
same time a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its
exercises include public reading, declamations, essays, debates,
dramatic exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members
—the elite of the Junior Department. The plays acted upon the
stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers of
the members, are written especially for them, and are intended to
increase the love of virtue and righteousness.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby. C. S. C.,
Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, 0. S. C.,
General Critic.
Rev. J. O’Keeffe, C. S. 0., Assist-
ant-Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
James F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon.
President.
T. McNamara, C. S. C.. Director
of Orpheonic Branch.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
E.	C. Orrick, 1st Vice-President.
C. A. Tinley, 2d Vice-President.
F.	H. Grever, Historian.
R. E. Fleming, Rec. Secretary.
J. L. Morgan, Cor. Secretary.
Second Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,
Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
General Critic.
Rev. J. O’Keeffe, C. S. C., Assist-
ant-Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
James F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon.
President.
T. McNamara, 0. S. C., Director
of Orpheonic Branch.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Pixr Acr.
C. A. Tinley, 1st Vice-Presidcu'.
E.	C. Orrick, 2d Vice-Presu ent.
F.	H. Grever, Historian.
R. E. Fleming, Rec. Secretary.
J. L. Morgan, Cor. Secretary.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
59
F. A. Quinn, Treasurer.
J. P. O’Neill, 1st Censor.
J. W. Guthrie, 2d Censor.
C. J. Brinkman, Librarian.
C. I. McDermott, 1st Monitor.
A. J. Hintze, 2d Monitor.
F. A. Kleine, Sergeant -at-Arms.
T. F. Flynn, 1st Property Manager.
H. L. Rose, 2d Property Manager.
C. F. Rietz, Marshal.
J. T. Homan, Prompter.
N. Weney, Organist.
F. A. Quinn, Treasurer.
J. P. O’Neill. 1st Censor.
0. F. Rietz, 2d Censor.
H. L. Rose, Librarian.
C. I. McDermott, 1st Monitor.
T. F. Flynn, 2d Monitor.
F. A. Kleine, Sergeant-at-Arms.
C. J. Brinkman, First Property
Manager.
J. W. Guthrie, Second Property
Manager.
J. IV. Cleary, Marshal.
C. F. Rose, Prompter.
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultivation
of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. 0.,
Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
F.	W. Bloom, Vice-President.
G.	F. Sugg, Rec. Secretary.
M. J. McEniry, Cor. Secretary.
W. B. McGorrisk, Treasurer.
G. Clarke, 1st Censor.
E.	Harrington, 2d Censor.
Second Session.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.
Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
F.	W. Bloom, Vice-President.
G.	F. Sugg, Rec. Secretary.
G. E. Clarke, Cor. Secretary.
W. H. Arnold, Treasurer.
W. B. McGorrisk, 1st Censor.
D. Harrington, 2d Censor.
St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
This Society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English
Composition and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Very Rev. Wm. Corby, C. S. C.,
Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
Assistant-Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. James F. Edwards, Hon.
President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Second Session.
Very Rev. Win. Corby, C. S. C.,
Director.
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
Assistant-Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. James F. Edwards, Hon.
President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C. Promoter.
60
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
F. Wheatley, 1st Vice-President.
A. Browne, 2d Vice-President.
A. 0. Schiml, Rec. Secretary.
G.	Woodson, Cor. Secretary.
H.	Devitt, Treasurer.
H. Dunn, 1st Censor.
J. Heffernan, 2d Censor.
J. Devitt, 3d Censor.
J. Flynn, Sergeant-at-Arms.
S. Livingston, Marshal.
L. Gibert, 1st Costumer.
J. Whelan, 2d Costumer.
C. Schaefer, 3d Costumer.
F.	Prenatt, Prompter.
G.	O’Kane, Librarian.
F.	Wheatley, 1st Vice-President
A. Browne, 2d Vice-President.
A. C. Schiml, Rec. Secretary.
G.	Woodson, Cor. Secretary.
H.	Devitt, Treasurer.
H. Dunn, 1st Censor.
J. Heffernan, 2d Censor.
J. Devitt, 3d Censor.
J. Flynn, Sergeant-at-Arms.
S. Livingston, Marshal.
L. Gibert, 1st Costumer.
J. Whelan, 2d Costumer.
G. Schaefer, 3d Costumer.
F.	Prenatt, Prompter.
G.	O’Kane, Librarian.
St. Edward Columbian Literary Club
The Columbian Society was founded March 25, 1873, by the late
Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., for the benefit of the Commercial
Students.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, Hon. President. Prof. J. A. Lyons, Hon. President.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
H. S. O'Donnell, Vice-President.
J. M. Falvey, Rec. Secretary.
T. Kavanagh, Cor. Secretary.
F E. Kuhn, Treasurer.
R. O'Connor, 1st Censor.
J. F. Browne, 2d Censor.
W. R. Young, Sergeant-at-Anns.
G. L. Hagan, Grand Marshal.
J. Marlett, 1st Prompter.
E. J. Taggart, 2d Prompter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
H. S. O’Donnell, Vice-President.
J. M. Falvey, Rec. Secretary.
T. Kavanagh, Cor. Secretary.
F. C. Smith, Treasurer.
R. O’Connor, 1st Censor.
E. J. Taggart, 2d Censor.
L. Stitzel, Sergeant-at-Arms.
J. Welch, Grand Marshal.
W. L Kelly, 1st Prompter.
H. A. Steis, 2d Prompter.
Lemonnier Library Association.
The Circulating Library was founded in 1872, for the use of the
students of Notre Dame, by the late Rev. Father Lemonnier, fourth
President of the University. All but two or three hundred of the
ten thousand volumes it contained were consumed by the late fire.
It was re-established August, 1879, by the present Librarian.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES. ,
Donations of books are solicited from the students and their
friends. Address Lemonnier Library Association, Notre Dame,
Indiana.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., ) rr w ±
Very Rev. W. Corby, 0. S. C., f ®011- Dnectois.
Prof. James F. Edwards, President and Librarian.
William H. Arnold, 1st Vice-President.
George Rhodius, 2d Vice-President.
Samuel P. Terry, Secretary.
W. Coughlin,
H. Rose,
C. Brinkman,
G. Castenado,
BOARD OF MANAGERS.
E. Otis,
R. Anderson,
W. McGorrisk,
G. Sugg,
G. Tour til otte,
F. Morrison,
A. Jackson,
C. Tinley.
Columbian Dramatic Society.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
F. C. Smith, Vice-President.
H. G. O'Donnell, Treasurer.
T. Kavanagh, Rec. Secretary.
F. F. Dever, Cor. Secretary
R. E. O'Connor, 1st Censor.
E. J. Taggart, 2d Censor
P. D. Stretch, Prompter.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by Rev. T. E. Walsh, 0. S. 0.,
and Mr. T. McNamara, 0. S. 0., on November 15th, 1877, is the
study of Elocution, and the cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger,
Bishop of Fort Wayne,
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Sup.-Gen’l , Ron. Directors,
of the Congregation of the ’
Holy Cross,
First Session.
Nwy Rev. IV. Corby, C. S. C.,
Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.
Rev. J. O’Keeffe, 0. S. 0., Promoter.
T. McNamara, C. S. 0., President.
Second Session.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. 0.,
Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, 0. S. C., Assistant
Director.
Rev. J. O’Keeffe, C.S. C., Promoter.
T. McNamara, 0. S. C., President.
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bro. Amaudus, 0. S. 0., General
Critic.
D. G. Taylor, 1st Vice-President.
J. S. Courtney, 2d Vice-President.
C. E. Droste, Secretary.
M. S. Olds, Treasurer.
G. E. Tourtillotte, Librarian.
E. A. Howard, Marshal.
A. B. Van Mourick. 1st Monitor.
J. H. Dwenger, 2d Monitor.
W. F. Hanavin, 1st Censor.
FI. A. Snee, 2d Censor.
A. J. Kelly, 3d Censor.
J. H. Dwenger, 4th Censor.
F. B. Farrelly, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Bro. Amandus, C. S. C., General
Critic.
D. G. Taylor, 1st Vice-President.
H. Metz, 2d Vice-President.
0. E. Droste, Secretary.
M. S. Olds, Treasurer.
A. J. Campau, Librarian.
E. A. Howard, Marshal.
H. A. Kitz, 1st Monitor.
J. T. Henry, 2d Monitor.
G.	J. Van Mourick, 1st Censor.
H.	A. Snee, 2d Censor.
J. H. Dwenger. 3d Censor.
W. Berthelet, 4th Censor.
C. 0. Echlin, Sergeant-at-Arms.
The Academia.
Both Sessions.
OFFICERS.
T. McNamara, C. S. C., Director.
G. E. Clarke, President.
F.	W. Bloom, Vice-President.
W. H. Arnold, Secretary.
G.	F. Sugg, Treasurer.
MEMBERS.
W. B. McGorrisk.
T. F. Claike.
H. C. Simms.
F. H. Grever.
MUSICAL.
University Orchestra.
Prof. Paul, Director.
1st Violin—F. W. Bloom. 2d Violin—A. Dick. Viola —Bro. Basil,
C.S.C. Violoncello—Prof. Baur. Contra Basso—Bro. Leopold, C.S.C.
Flute—F. Grever, F. Fishel. Clarinet—Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C.
Cornets—F. xA. Quinn, J. W. Guthrie. Trombone—Rev. J. Frbre, 0. S. 0.
Drums—H. B. Dulaney, H. Noble.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.	63
J union Orchestra,
1st Violin—A. Dick, F. Grever. 2d Violin—F. Wheatley, F. Johnson.
Violoncello—G. Schaefer. Flute—F. Fishel. Cornets—F. Quinn, J. W.
Guthrie. Contra Bass—F. Florman.
Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
E Flat Cornet—F. W. Bloom, G. E. Clarke, J. R. Marlett. 1st B Flat
Cornet—G. F. Sugg. 2d B Flat Cornet—R. E. O’Connor. 3d B Flat—
F. C. Smith. Alto Solo-W. H. Arnold. 1st E Flat Alto-W. B. Mc-
Gorrisk, H. E. O’Donnell. 2d E Flat Alto—G. Tracy, D. Harrington.
1st B Tenor—F. M. Bell. 2d B Flat Tenor—B. H. Pollock. 1st Baritone
—F. Devoto. 2d Baritone—Bro. Paul, C. S. C. B Flat Contra Bass—
T. Kavanagh. E Flat Tuba—F. E. Kuhn. Drums —H. B. Dulaney, H.
Noble. Cymbals—D. Danahey.
Choral Union.
Junior Department.
First Voices—G. Schaefer, T. Johnson, N. Nelson, W. Mahon, H. Tello,
H. Metz. 2d Voices—G. O’Kane, A. Brown, T. Burns, C. Echlin, J.
Courtney, J. A. Kelly, W. Thompson. Third Voices—J. W. Guthrie, A.
Dick, C. Kollars, L. Gibert.
Corby dee Club.
Senior Department.
1st Tenor - L. O’Donnell, C. A. Brehmer, F. Smith. 2d Tenor—B. H.
Pollock. G. Tracey, G. Sugg. 1st Bass—F. Kuhn, B. Zettler, C. Tinley.
2d Bass—F. W. Bloom, A. Zahm, W. H. Arnold.
64
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ATHLETIC.
The Notre Dame Cadets
is the title of a military company organized at the University
during the past year. The object in view is not so much to
inculcate a taste for the military career, as the acquiring of
some of the many practical advantages that result from mili-
tary drill and discipline—namely, an erect, dignified, manly
bearing; grace and freedom of movement; a ready and unques-
tioning spirit of obedience, order and discipline in everything.
The arms are furnished by the State. The uniform is neat and
inexpensive. It is of the regulation gray woolen material made
expressly for the Government cadets, and used at the United States
Military Academies at West Point and elsewhere. The complete
uniform costs only $10 when made by the college tailors. Those
who prefer to have it made at home will have samples sent them,
if applied for.
OFFICERS.
T. H. Cocke, Captain.
J. P. O'Neill, 1st Lieutenant.
H. L. Rose, 2d Lieutenant.
H. W. Morse, 1st Sergeant.
W. Oleary, 2d Sergeant.
C. Rietz, 3d Sergeant.
F. H. Grever, 4th Sergeant.
E. C. Orrick, 1st Corporal.
C.	J. Brinkman, 2d Corporal.
A. J. Jackson, 3d Corporal.
D.	C. Smith, 4th Corporal.
J. Gordon, 5th Corporal.
H. P. Dunn, 6th Corporal.
Lemonnier Boat Club.
OFFICERS.
First Session. •
Rev. J. O’Keeffe, C. S. C., Director.
M. J. McEniry, Commodore.
G. F. Sugg, Secretary.
F.	W. Bloom, Treasurer.
G.	F. Sugg, Capt. “ Hiawatha.”
W. B. McGorrisk, Capt. Minnehaha.
Second Session.
Rev. J. O’Keeffe, C. S. C, Director.
M. J. McEniry, Commodore.
G. Sugg, Secretary.
F.	W. Bloom, Treasurer.
G.	Sugg, Capt. “Hiawatha.”
T. Kavanagh, Capt. “ Minnehaha.”
i£onferring of Degrees, etc.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
John Boyle O’Reilly, Boston, Mass.
J udge W. AV. Cleary, Covington, Ky.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
John G-. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.
Florian B. Devoto, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Thomas McNamara, Dexter, Mich.
The Degree of Master of Sciences was conferred on
Martin J. McCue, Greenwood, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Francis W. Bloom, Vincennes, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
George F. Sugg, Chicago, Ill.
Edward A. Milner, Portland, Oregon.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
George E. Clarke, Cairo, Ill.
M. J. McEniry, Osborn, Ill.
D.	A. Harrington, Boston, Mass.
D.	McCawley, Chicago, Ill.
Medical Certificates were awarded to
Wiltanm. H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.
Harry W. Simms, Lewiston, Ill.
George Cassidy, Equality, Ill.
A Certicfiate for Telegraphy was awarded to
Samuel P. Terry, Rochester, Ind.
(Commercial (Brabuates.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
R. C. Adams, Eau Claire, Mich..
John M. Boose, Lima, Ohio.
James H. Burns, Columbus, Ohio.
Amedeus Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio.
Louis E. Clements, Uniontown, Ky.
Frank T. Dever, Ashland, Ky.
James M. F alvey, Winamac, Ind.
Edward Fishel, Nashville, Tenn.
T. H. Finnegan, Palos, Ill.
John AV. Guthrie, Carroll City, Iowa.
John M. Heffernan, Louisville, Ky.
George L. Hagan, St. Augustine, Ill.
William E. Hoffman, Wheeling, AV. Va.
Albert Hintze, Milwaukee, AVis.
Patrick Joyce, South Bend, Ind.
Walter J. Kelly, Lake Five, AVis.
Frederick A. Kleine, Cincinnati, 0.
Thomas Kavanagh, Des Moines, Iowa.
Ferdinand E. Kuhn, Nashville, Tenn.
John L. Morgan, Marco, Ind.
John McNamara, Keokuk, Iowa.
George Nester, Saginaw, Mich.
Hugh S. O’Donnell, Maysville, Ky.
Charles F. Rietz, Chicago, Ill.
John M. Scanlan, Chicago, Ill.
George Silverman, Chicago, Ill.
Edward Sugg, Chicago, Ill.
Henry A. Steis, Winamac, Ind.
Charles Thiele, Goshen, Ind.
George Truschel, Wheeling, AV. Va.
AVilliam R. Young, Pawnee, Ill.
i£lass Prize Hlebals.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to
Francis W. Bloom, Vincennes, Ind.
[The Medal in the Junior Class was not awarded.]
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Medal awarded to Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
ERESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to Neal Henry Ewing, Lancaster, 0.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
JUNIOR CLASS.
Medal awarded to Eugene C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Medal awarded ex aequo to Charles B. Van Deusen, Benton Harbor,
Michigan; and to Charles AV. McDermott, Stockport, Ohio.
ERESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to John A. McIntyre, Milwaukee, Wis. [Closely
contested by Elmer A. Otis.]
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Medal awarded to George L. Hagan, St. Augustine, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (Junior Course) was awarded
to Joseph T. Homan, Cincinnati, 0.
The Edwards Medal for Progress in Penmanship awarded ex wquo to
John H. Fendrich, Evansville, Ind., and to Frank H. Kengel, Detroit,
Mich.
Medals for Excellence in Elocution, presented by Prof. J. A. Lyons,
were awarded to W. J. McCarthy, Boonville, Mo., and to Charles E.
Tinley, Covington, Ky.
The Shea Med’al for the same was awarded to Joseph P. O’Neill, Salt
Lake City, Utah.
The Gold Medal, presented by Very Kev. E. Sorin, Superior-General
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of the Congregation of Holy Cross, to the Elocution Class in the Minim
Department, was awarded to George Everett Tourtillotte, Toledo, 0.
The Campan Gold Medal, presented to the Sorin Literary and Drama-
tic Association, was awarded to Charles Edward Droste, Cincinnati, 0.
The Edwards Gold Medal for Ecclesiastical History was awarded to
George F. Sugg, Chicago, Hl.
The Grand Gold Medal for General History was awarded to George
E.	Clarke, Cairo, Ill.
The Gold Medal for German was awarded to Frank H. Grever,
Cincinnati, Ohio.
Awatbing of Honors.
[GoldMedals, known as “First Honors,” are awarded to those students who
have attended the classes of the University for at least four sessions, and whose
deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
FIRST HONORS WERE AWARDED TO
R.	0. Adams, Eau Claire, Mich.
W. H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.
George E. Clarke, Cairo, Ill.
James Delaney, Erie, Penn.
T. Kavanaugh, Des Moines, Iowa.
E. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa.
W. B. McGorrisk, Des Moines, Iowa.
AV. J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo.'
, John McNamara, Keokuk, Iowa.
L. Clements, Uniontown, Ky.
Elmer A. Otis, U. S. Army.
Lincoln Proctor, Elkhart, Ind.
James Solon, Tolono, Ill.
E. Sugg, Chicago, Ill.
Warren Scholfield, Marshall, Ill.
Charles Thiele, Goshen, Ind.
S.	P. Terry, Rochester, Ind.
Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind
Joseph N. Osher, Chicago, Ill.
L. Mathers, Monica, Ill.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
FIRST HONORS WERE AWARDED TO
0. J. Brinkmann, Terre Haute, Ind.
A. Coghlin, Toledo, Ohio.
Thos F. Flynn, Des Moines, Iowa.
John W. Guthrie, Carroll City, Iowa.
F. A. Kleine, Cincinnati, 0.
C. F. Rietz, Chicago, Hl.
C. W. McDermott, Stockport, 0.
E.	C. Orrick, Canton, Miss.
H. L. Rose, Evansville, Ind.
Joseph Ruppe, Hancock, Mich.
H. P. Dunn, Mobile, Ala.
R. E. Fleming, Henderson, Ky.
F.	McPhillips, Dexter, Mich.
N. J. Nelson, Chicago, Ill.
G.	Rhodius, Indianapolis, Ind.
0. F. Rose, Evansville, Ind.
J. M. Scanlan, Chicago, Ill.
C. Tinley, Covington, Ky.
	AWARDING OF HONORS.		69
	MINIM DEPARTMENT.		
FIRST HONORS WERE AWARDED TO Charles C. Echlin, San Francisco, Cal.	Harry Edward Kitz, Indianapolis, Ind. Daniel Giltrist Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.	Alexis Joseph Campau, Detroit, Mich. Thomas Edward McGrath, Chicago,	Joseph Henry Dwenger, Fort Wayne, Ill.	Ind. Charles Metz, Chicago, Ill.	Joseph Stanislas Chaves, Belen, N. M.			
[Second Honors are awarded to students whose deportment has been entirely satisfactory during a period of at least two sessions.]			
	SENIOR DEPARTMENT.		
Charles Brehmer. P. M. Bell, M. B. Eaton, ' James Falvey, A. Korty, John Casey.	SECOND HONORS WERE AWARDED TO Geo. L. Hagan,	F. E. Kuhn, D. A. Harrington, J. A. McIntyre, W. Johnson,	J. Malone, W. J. Kelly,	John O’Reillv, G. Nester,	E. Piper, “		B. F. Smith, H. A. Steis, E. Taggart, W. R. Young. M. McEniry,
	JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.		
A. Brown, G. Castenado, A. C. Dick, N. H. Ewing, F. H. Grever, T. G. Hurley, F. R. Johnson, Sam. Livingston, M. A. McNulty, Geo. Schaefer, Thos. Williams.	SECOND HONORS WERE AWARDED TO J. H. Burns,	W. H. Barron, J. Courtney,	W. J. Cavanagh, G. DeHaven,	F. H. Dorsel, J. H. Fendrich,	Ed. Fishel, E. F. Gall,	A. A. Gall, A. J. Hintze,	J. T. Homan, A. T. Jackson,	P. A. Joyce, C. M. Murdock,	S. T. Murdock, J. P. O’Neill, ' Charles Perry, G. A. Truschel, F. J. Woeber,		A. Bodine, W. S. Cleary, J. W. Devitt, Fred. Fishel, P. G. Hoffman, G. J. Haslam, C. C. Kolars, H. W. Morse, W. E. Smith, Guy Woodson,
	MINIM DEPARTMENT.		
W. F. Berthelet, W. E. Hanavin. A. B. VanMourick E. A. Howard, J. McGrath,	SECOND HONORS WERE AWARDED TO D. A. O’Connor,	J. S. Courtney, R. Costello,	M. W. Olds, • J. Kelly,	G. E. Tourtillotte, H. L. Ackerman,	A. B. Bender, E. McGrath,	J. A. Ruppe,		H. A. Snee, J. A. Frain, C. E. Droste, M. G. Devitt, L. Young.
	Honorable	Mentions.	
L. Calligari, M. F. Falvey. E. Yrissari.	Senior Department. W. Huddleston,	J. B. Zettler, J. Larkin,	D. Danahey,		F. Gallagher, J. Kindle,
P. Archer, T. D. Healey,	Junior Department, A. J. Dennis,	Jacob Friedman, J. Mohan,	Ed. Prenatt,		Louis Florman, D. G. Paul.
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adams, R. C.—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit
in 1st Geography and History; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; Premium
General Average of Examination.
Arnold, Wm. H.—Premium in Anatomy and Materia Medica; Accessit in
5th Greek.
Browne, W. I.—2d Accessit in 3d Sr. Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Geogra-
phy; Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Browne, J. F.—2d Accessit in English Composition; 3d Accessit in Ancient
History.
Bourbonia, T.—3d Accesst in 3d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in Theory
2d Book-Keeping; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Brehmer, C.—Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Architectural Draw-
ing; 1st Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar;
4th Accessit in Penmanship; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bloom, F. W.—Premium in 1st Latin; Premium in 1st Greek; Premium in
Moral Philosophy; Premium in Geology; Premium in Vocal Music;
1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Bell, F. M.—2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st Accessit in Physiology ; 2d
Accessit in Botany; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bodine, A.—2d Accessit in Special Arithmetic; 2dAccessitin 1st Grammar;
2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Byrne, T. P.—Premium in Landscape Drawing; 1st Accessit in 3d
Arithmetic.
Clarke, G. Edmund—Premium in Ancient History ; Premium in English
History; Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in Public Reading;
4th Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Clarke, T. F.—3d Premium 1st Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 6th
Greek; 2d Accessit in 2d Physics; 2d Accessit in 2d Chemistry; 2d
Accessit in English History; 1st Accessit in Ancient History.
Casey, John—Premium in Trigonometry; 3d Accessit in 6th Latin.
Claffey, D. C.—3d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit
in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Calligari, L.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Clements, L.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in
2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Linear Drawing; Premium General
Average of Examination ; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Dever, F. T.—Premium in Telegraphy; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography and
History; Premium General Average of Examination.
Danahey, Daniel—1st Premium in 8th Latin; 2d Premium in 1st Christian
Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; 2d Accessit in Public Beading;
Premium General Average of Examination.
Delaney, Jas.—2d Premium in Penmansnip; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine.
English, D.—2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Eaton, M. B.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 5th Accessit
PREMIUMS.	71
in 1st Georaphy and History; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th
Accessit for Piano; Premium General Average of Examination.
Falvey, Jas. M.—1st Premium, ex oequo, English Composition; 2d Accessit
in 1st Geography and History; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine;
1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Accessit in 2d Geometry; 4th
Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium General Average of Examination.
Falvey, M.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in
2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Fishburne, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Garrity, F.—Accessit in Elocution.
Gallagher, F.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit in 4th Latin.
Haley, M.—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doc-
trine.
Huddleston, W.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Arith-
metic ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Hagan, Geo. L.—1st Premium in 1st Georaphy and History; 1st Premium
in Special Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st
Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 2d Physics and Chemistry ; 3d Prem-
ium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium
for Examination.
Hoffmann, W. E.—1st Premium for Piano; 4th Premium in Penmanship;
1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping.
Harrington, Dennis—Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian
Doctrine; Accessit in 3d Latin.
Healy, M.—Premium in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Trigonometry; 2d Ac-
cessit in 5th Latin; 1st Accessit in Public Reading.
Jones, A.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Johnson, William—4th Premium in 1st Geography and History; 3d Pre-
mium in 1st Grammar; Premium for Examination ; 1st Premium in
4th Algebra; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Kelly, W. J.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar ; 3d Premium in 1st Geography
and History ; 3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium in 4th Ger-
man ; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine ; Premium for Examination.
Korty, A.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar,
3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Kavanagh, T.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 8th
Latin ; 1st Accessit in English Composition ; Accessit in Elocution ;
Premium for Examination.
Kuhn, F. E.—1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 1st Ger-
man ; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in English
Composition; 1st Accessit in 1st Geometry; Accessit in Vocal Music;
Premium General Average of Examination.	. .	_
Kuhn, J. W.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 3d Chris-
tian Doctrine.
Kindle, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Reading and
Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d
Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 1st Geography and History; Pre-
mium General Average of Examination.
Larkin, J.—2d Accessit in 8th Latin; Premium for Examination.
McGorrisk, E.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin.
McGorrisk, W. B.—Premium in Analytical Chemistry ; Premium in Geolo-
gy ; Premium in Mineralogy; Accessit in Calculus; Accessit in 3d
Latin.	‘
72	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
McCarthy, W. J.—1st Accessit in English Literature; Premium, in Elocu-
tion.
McNamara, J.—3d Accessit in English Composition.
Mathers. L.—Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium
for Examination.
Marlett, J.—Accessit in Architectural Drawing; Accessit in Elocution.
Monahan, G.—Premium in 3d Geography.
McIntyre, J.—Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in Ancient History;
2d Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Premium in Physiology; 1st Premium
in Botany ; 1st Premium, ex cequo, in 1st Algebra; 1st Accessit in 2d
Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit for Piano.
Malone, J.—Accessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeking; 4th
Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
McEniry, M. J.—Accessit in English Criticism ; Accessit in Geology ; Ac-
cessit in English History.
Nash, J.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Nester, Geo.—1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in Penman-
ship ; 2d Accessit in 1st Sr. Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
O’Donnell, H.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 8th
Latin; Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit
in Public Reading; 1st Accessit in 2d Algebra; 3d Accessit in Rhetoric.
O’Reilly, J.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keep-
ing ; Premium for Examination.
Otis, E. A.—Premium in 5th Latin ; Premium in Ancient History ; Ac-
cessit in Elocution; 2d Accessit in English Literature; Premium, ex
cequo, in 1st Algebra; Premium in Physiology ; 2d Premium in Botany.
Osher, J. N.—1st Accessit in Conic Sections; 2d Accessit in Surveying.
O’Connor, R. E.—Premium Execution in Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in
3d Christian Doctrine.
Piper, E.—Premium in Portrait Drawing.
Proctor, L.—Premium in Ornamental Drawing.
Ratterman, W.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit
in 1st Arithmetic.
Solon, J.—1st Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doc-
trine ; 2d Premium in Public Reading; 2d Premium in Rhetoric ; Pre-
mium in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in 7th Latin; 2d Accessit in 2d
Algebra; Premium for Examination.
Smith, F. C.—2d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Steis, H.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 1st
Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-
Keeping ; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading and
Orthography ; Premium for Examination.
Sugg, G. F.—Premium in Elocution : Accessit in Analytical Chemistry; Ac-
cessit in Perspective; 1st Accessit for Piano; 2d Accessit in Vocal
Music; 3d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Sugg, E.—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in 8th Latin ; 1st Accessit in
4th Algebra; 2d Accessit for Piano.
Simms, H.—1st Accessit in 2d Physics; 1st Accessit in 2d Chemistry;
Premium in Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Stitzel, L.—Accessit in Elocution.
Scholfield, W.—2d Premium, ex cequo, in 6 th Latin ; 2d Accessit in 2d Ge-
ometry ; Premium for Examination.
Smith, B. F.—2d Premium in Figure Drawing.
Thiele, C.—1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping ; Premium for Examination ;
PREMIUMS.	73
1st Accessit in 1st Geography and History ; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine.
Taggart, E.—1st Premium in 7th Latin; Premium for Examination ; Pre-
mium in 2d Algebra; Accessit in Elocution ; 1st Accessit in 2d Chris-
tian Doctrine.
Terry, S.—Premium in Surveying; Premium in Machine Drawing; Accessit
in Elocution.
Tracey, Geo.—Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Van Dusen, C.—2d Premium in English Literature; 1st Accessit in 6th
Latin ; Accessit in Zoology.
Walsh, W. R.—1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in 4th
Greek; 2d Accessit in 3d Latin.
Young, W. R.—Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in 1st Book-Keep-
ing ; 2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in 2d Chris-
tian Doctrine; Premium for Examination; 3d Premium in 1st Geogra-
phy and History.
Yrisarri, E.—-1st Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in 3d Chris-
tian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in Penman-
ship.
Zettler, J. B.—1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic ;
1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution ; 2d Ac-
cessit in Vocal Music; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography and History; 3d
Accessit in 8th Latin.
Zahm, A.—Premium in English Criticism ; Premium in Elocution ; Pre-
mium in 4th Greeek; Premium in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in Physiology.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Ayers, W.—Premium in Crayon Drawing.
Browne, A.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 1st Read-
ing and Orthography; 3d Accessit in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 2d
Arithmetic; Premium General Average of Examination.
Bennett, J. H.—1st Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit
in 3d Grammar; Accessit in Telegraphy; Premium General Average
of Examination.
Boose, J. M.—Premium Execution in Book-Keeping; Premium General
Average of Examination; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Brinkman, C. J.—Premium in Elocution ; 3d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 1st
Accessit in Botany ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Butler, M. G.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Butler, V. G.—Premium General Average of Examination; 2d Premium in
1st Reading and Orthography.
Burns, J. H.—1st Premium in Bible History; 1st Accessit in Christian Doc-
trine, Public Course; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in
Public Reading; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium General
Average of Examination.
Bodine, Alfred—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in 3d
Algebra; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th
Accessit in 1st Arithmetic ; 4th Accessit in Public Reading; Premium
General Average of Examination.
I
74
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Barron, W. H.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Pre-
mium in 3d Grammar ; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in
1st Arithmetic ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Block, M.—1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Bender, J.—1st Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Castanedo, G.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 1st Accessit in French ;
Premium General Average of Examination.
Coghlin, A.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 1st Grammar;
Premium General Average of Examination.
Cogblin, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography.
Casey, Jerome—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Courtney, James—1st Premium in 1st U. S. History; 1st Accessit in 1st
Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d
Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Cullinane, E.—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine; General Average of Examination.
Cavanaugh, W".—1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Penman-
ship ; Premium General Average of Examination.
Cabel, J. V.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Cleary, W.—1st Premium in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in 1st Sr. Arithmetic;
Premium in 3d Algebra ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium
in Bible History; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public Course ;
1st Accessit in 2d Physiology ; 1st Accessit in Public Reading; Pre-
mium General Average of Examination.
Cantwell, F.—Accessit in Pencil Drawing.
Dunn, H. P.—Premium in Figure Drawing; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic
Accessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; Premium General
Average of Examination.
Dick, A. 0.—Premium for Progress on Violin; 2d Premium in Vocal
Music; Premium General Average of Examination.
De Haven, G. W.—2d Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public Course; 5th
Accessit in 2d Grammar; Premium General Average of Examination.
Dorsel, F. H.—Premium for Progress on Violin; 3d Accessit in 1st Ger-
man ; Premium for Examination
Devitt, J. W.—2d Premium in 5th German ; Premium for Examination.
Devitt, H.—2d Accessit in 2d Geography; Premium for Examination.
Dennis, A.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic, 2d Premium in 4th Grammar ;
Premium for Examination.
Ewing, N. H.—■Premium in 4th Latin; Premium in 5th Greek; 2d Pre-
mium in Rhetoric; Accessit in 1st Algebra.
Flynn, T.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessitin 2d Botany; 2d Ac-
cessit in 2d Physiology ; Premium for Examination.
Flynn, J.—Premium for Examination.
Flynn, A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Geography ;
Premium for Examination.
Farrell, J.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Christian
Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit
in 5th German ; 2d Accessit in 3d Grammar ; Premium General Average
of Examination.
Fendrick, J.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Pen-
manship ; 3d Accessit in 1st Readingand Orthography; Premium Gen-
eral Average of Examination.
PREMIUMS.	75
Fleming, R. E.—1st Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Premium in Rhetoric ;
Premium in Solid Object Drawing; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine,
Public Course ; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Figure
l hawing; 2d Accessit in 1st Geometry ; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Fishel, E.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Geography;
2d Premium, ex cequo, in Public Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Book-
Keeping ; 1st Accessit in Special Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in U. S.
History; 5th Accessit in Penmanship; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Fishel, F.—Premium for Flute; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Pre-
mium in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 2d Accessit in 4th Grammar;
Premium General Average of Examination.
Friedman, J.—2d Accessit for Piano; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Pre-
mium General Average of Examination.
Florman, L.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Grammar ;
1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Accessit for Violin; Premium General
Average of Examination.
Grever, F. H.—1st Premium in 1st German; Premium for Proficiency on
Violin ; 3d Premium in Public Reading.
Gordon, J.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Gibert, L.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in 1st French.
Gall, A. A.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Gall, E. F.—1st Premium in 2d German; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; Pre-
mium General Average of Examination.
Guthrie, J. W.—1st Premium in 1st Sr. Arithmetic; Premium in Tele-
graphy; Premium in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Vocal Music; 2d Ac-
cessit in Public Reading; 3d Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium General
Average of Examination.
Gray, W.—2d Premium in Physiology; Acce-sit in French ; 2d Accessit in
Rhetoric; Accessit in 1st Algebra.
Hoffman, P.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Hurly, T. J.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Hintze, A.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Homan, J.—Premium for Progress on Piano; 1st Premium in Evidences of
Christianity ; 2d Premium in Public Reading; Premium in Elocution ;
1st Accessit in Rhetoric; Accessit in 4th Greek.
Herrick, M.—Premium in Elocution ; 1st Accessit in 4th German.
Heffernan, J. M.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st
Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography; 6th Accessit in Penmanship;
Premium General Average of Examination.
Heffernan, J. L.—Premium General Average of Examination.
Haslam, Geo.—Premium General Average or Examination.
Halthusen, N.'—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Healy, T.—1st Accessit in Conic Sections; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Ac-
cessit in Trigonometry.
Johnson, F.—1st Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit for Violin ; Premium
for Examination.
Jackson, A.—Premium in 7th Latin; Accessit in Telegraphy; 3d Accessit
in 1st Grammar; 4th Accessit in 3d Algebra; Premium for Examination.
Joyce, P.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 8th Latin; 2d
76	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Penmanship; Premium
for Examination.
Kengel, F.—4th Premium in Penmanship; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar;
5th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Krone, F.—1st Accessit in 4th Grammar; 4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic ;
Premium for Examination.
Kleine, F. A.—Premium in 2d Botany; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 2d
Accessit in 1st German; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Kelly, J. M.—2d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 5th Accessit
in 2d Grammar.
Kollars, O.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Geography;
1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d Reading and
Orthography; Premium General Average of Examination.
Kipper, G.—3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in
Penmanship ; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d Geogra-
phy ; Premium for Examination.
Livingston, S.—Premium for Examination; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Lannon, H.—Premium for Examination.
Mattes, F.—3d Premium, ex cequo, in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st
Reading and Orthography; Premium for Examination.
Mendel, A.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; 3d Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium for Exami-
nation.
McPhillips, F.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
McDermott, 0. W.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; Pre-
mium in.Conic Sections ; 2d Premium in English Literature ; 1st Acces-
sit in Surveying; 2d Accessit in Zoology; 4th Accessit in Christian
Doctrine.
Murdock, C. W.—3d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Acces-
sit in Bible History ; 3d Accessit for Piano ; Premium for Examination.
Murdock, S.—2d Accessit in Bible History; 3d Premium in 1st Reading
and Orthography; Premium for Examination.
McGrath, J. F.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Accessit in Telegraphy ;
3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
McKinnon, F.—1st Premium in 4th Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine.
Morse, H. W.—1st Premium in 5th German; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography;
1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Acces-
sit in U. S. History; Premium for Examination.
Martin, J. F.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra;
6th Accessit for Piano; Premium for Examination.
McNulty, M. A.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Read-
ing and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Mahon, W. P.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Geogra-
phy ; Premium for Examination; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Mohan, J.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
Morgan, J.—3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Nelson, N. J.—Premium in 7th Latin; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st
Accessit in Public Reading; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium
General Average of Examination; 4th Accessit in Penmanship.
Ornck, E. 0.—1st Premium in English Literature; Premium in General
Geometry and Calculus; Premium in Mineralogy; Premium in Per-
spective; Premium in 2d Chemistry; Premium in 2d Physics; Pre-
PREMIUMS.
77
mium in Zoology; Premium in Elocution; Premium in India Ink
Blending and Shading; 2d Premium in Public Reading ; 2d Premium
in Christian Doctrine, Public Course.
O’Kane, G.—2d Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium General Average of
Examination ; 1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
O’Neill, J.—2d Premium in Public Reading; 2d Accessit in English Liter-
ature ; 3d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Perry, C. F.—1st Premium in 2d Geography ; J st Accessit in 1st Reading
and Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st
Arithmetic.
Prenatt, E.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine, Public Course; 3d Prem-
ium in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in Public
Reading; Premium General Average of Examination.
Paul, D.—3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Quinn, F.—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Christian Doctrine; 1st
Accessit in 3d Latin; 4th Accessit in Public Reading ; Accessit in 5th
Greek.
Rhodius, G.—Premium for Execution in Book-Keeping; Adcessitin Elocu-
tion ; 2d Accessit in Public Reading; Premium General Average of
Examination.
Rohrbach, A.—Premium in Telegraphy; 2d Accessit in 1st Reading and
Orthography; 5th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Rose, H.—1st Accessit in Penmanship; Premium General Average of Ex-
amination.
Rose, C.—2d Premium in U. S. History; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 1st
Accessit in 1st Geography.
Rietz, C.—1st Premium in English Composition; 1st Premium for Profic-
iency on Piano; Premium in 2d Physiology; 1st Accessit in 2d Botany;
2d Accessit in 4th Algebra; Premium General Average of Examination.
Ruppe, J.—2d Premium in Special Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th German ;
2d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; 4th Accessit in 1st Grammar.
Silverman, G —1st Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Accessiit in 8th Latin;
Premium for Examination.
Sells, H. G.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Reading
and Orthography ; 3d Accessit in 2d Penmanship ; Premium for Ex-
amination.
Smith, W. E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Smith, D. C.—Premium for Examination.
Schiml, A.—Premium in Artistic Drawing; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar;
1st Accessit in 1st German; 4th Accessit for Piano; Premium for Ex-
amination.
Schneider, C.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship ; 2d Accessit in 2d German;
1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Aecessit in 2d Reading and Othogra-
phy; Premium for Examination ; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Schaefer, G.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Vocal Music;
Premium in Landscape Drawing ; 1st Accessit in 2d German ; 5th Ac-
cessit tor Piano; Premium for Examination.
Start, W.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium for Examination.
Scanlan, J. M.—1st Premium in U. S. History; 2d Premium in 3d Algebra;
1st Accessit in 1st Geography; Premium for Examination.
Truschel, G.—1st Premium in 1st Geography ; 1st Premium in U. S. His-
tory ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit for Piano; 2d Accessit
in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium for
Examination.
78	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Tinley, C.—1st Premium in Public Reading; Accessit for Violin ; Prem-
ium for Examination.
Woeber, E.—2d Accessit in 2d German; Premium for Examination.
Wheatley, F. W.—Accessit for Violin; Premium for Examination.
Williams, T.—2d Premium in Penmanship ; 1st Accessit in Sth German;
3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; Premium for Examination.
Whalen, F.—3d Accessit in 5th German; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic;
Premium for Examination.
Zekind, B.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium General Average of
Examination.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Ackerman, H. J.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d
Christian Doctrine.
Berthelet, W. T.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Read-
ing ; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in Orthography ;
2d Accessit in U. S. History.
Bender, A. B.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 3d Read-
ing ; 3d Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
Bagard, E. B.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 6th Premium in 3d Geogra-
phy ; 5 h Accessit in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in French.
Courtney, J. S.—1st Premium in 1st Geography ; 2d Premium in 1st Arith-
metic ; 4th Premium in 1st Reading ; 6 th Premium in first Orthogra-
phy ; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; oth Accessit in Penmanship.
Campau, A. J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Read-
ing ; 3d Accessit in 1st Orthography ; 7th Accessit in Geography.
Costello, R. E.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in Bible His-
tory ; 6th Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Acce°sit in 2d Grammar; 6th
Accessit in 1st Geography.
Campau, P.—4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Arith-
metic ; 1st Premium in 1st Reading.
Chaves, J. S.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic ;
3d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Campau, C.—3d Premium in 4thReading; 7thPremium in 3d Orthography.
Dwenger, J. H.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Read-
ing; 5th Premium in Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geogra-
phy ; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Droste, C. E.—1st Premium in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 1st Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d
Premium in U. S. History.
Devitt, M. E.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 4th
Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Orthography.
Echlin, C. C.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading;
1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Orthography ; 3d
Accessit in 1st Geography; 5th Accessit in Bible History.
Farrelly, F. B.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Orthog-
raphy ; 2d Premium in 2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Reading.
Frain, J. A.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography; Sth Premium in 2d Read-
ing ; 6th Premium in Geography ; 3d Accessit in Arithmetic.
PREMIUMS.	79
Howard, E. A.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Gram-
mar ; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography ; 6th Premium in Bible History ;
■ 4th Accessit in 1st Reading.
Hanavin, W. F.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2 Gram-
mar ; 5th Premium in IT. S. History; 3d Premium in Penmanship ;
5th Accessit in Bible History.
Haslam, J. E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Orthog-
raphy; 4th Accessit in Bible History; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Kelly, J. A.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th
Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Accessit in Orthography; 3d Accessit
in Bible History.
Kitz, H. A.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 7th Premium in 1st Reading;
6th Premium in 1st Orthography ; 4th Accessit in 1st Geography.
Moroney, J. E.—5th Premium in 2d Reading; 8th Premium in 1st Orthog-
raphy ; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Accessit in Penmanship.
Molander, A. G.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Orth-
ography ; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.
Metz, H.—4th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in Penmanship; 7th
Accessit in 2d Arithmetic ; 6th Accessit in U. S. History.
Metz, 0.—3d Premium in 3d Geography; 6th Premium in 3d Reading; 4th
Premium in 3d Orthography.
McCawley, D. L.—5th Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Pen-
manship ; 2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Miller, W. J.—1st Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Geogra-
phy ; 4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
McGrath, T. E.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 2d
Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in Bible
History.
McGrath, E.—4th Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine.
McGrath, J.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Orthog-
raphy ; 4th Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Nester, J. F.—1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 3d
Arithmetic ; 1st Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
Olds, M. W.—1st Premium in 2d Reading ; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic ;
3d Premium in Bible History; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar.
O’Connor, D. A.—5th Premium in 2d Reading ; 6th Premium in 2d Gram-
mar ; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in Orthography.
Otis, F. Ignatius—6th Premium in 4th Reading; 7th Premium in Geography.
Otis, A. J.—6th Premium in 4th Reading.
Powel, B.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in Orthography.
Price, G.—7th Premium in 4th Reading.
Prindiville, W.—7th Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 3d
Orthography.
Prindiville, D.—5th Premium in 4th Reading.
Rose, J. L.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in Geography.
Rea, W.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Ruppe, J. A.—1st Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Penman-
ship ; 2d Accessist in 3d Reading.
Snee, H. A.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ; 4th Premium in 1st Gram-
mar ; 5th Premium in 1st Orthography ; 3d Premium in 1st Geography ;
6th Premium in IT. S. History; 5th Premium in 1st Reading.
Tourtillotte, G. E.—3d Premium in 1 st Reading; 7th Premium in 1st Orth-
80	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
ography ; 5th Premium in 1st Geography ; 7th Premium in 1st Arith-
metic ; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Taylor, D. G.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar ;
3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship ; 4th Pre-
mium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Taylor, W.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; 3d Premium in 2d Geography ;
8th Premium in 2d Reading; 7th Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Thompson, W.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Read-
ing; 4th Accessit in Orthography ; 6th Accessit in Penmanship.
VanMourick, A. B.—5th Premium in 2d Reading; 7th Premium in 2d
Arithmetic; 6th Premium in Penmanship; 5th Accessit in U. 8.
History.	.
Young, L. E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Yrisarri, P.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Orthog-
raphy.
Young, C.—5th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.

Thirty-Seventh Annual Commencement Exercises
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. IND.,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday, June 21, 22 and 23, 1881.
Tuesday, June 21, 7.30 P.M.
EXERCISES BY THE GRADUATING CLASS, AND CLOSING EXERCISES OF THE
EUGLOSSIAN ASSOCIATION.
Overture—A Night in Granada—
(Kreutzer), -	Quartette
Essay, -	- G. F. Sugg (Scientific)
The Christian Gladiator—Per-
sonification, -	- C. Tinley
Address to a Country Jury, - E. Orrick
Self-Importance, - D. Danahey
Guitar Solo—(by request), - B. Claggett
Discourse—(the Judiciary), - G. Clarke
Patriotism—(Recitation), - J. ONeill
Commercial Address, - T. Kavanagh
Dying Soldier, - - W. J. McCarthy
Discourse—(the Legislative),
M. J. McEniry
Logic Personified, -	- J. Solon
Regulus before the Senate, - M. Healy
Discourse—(the Executive),
D. Harrington
Wednesday Evening, June 22.
Opening March (Boccacio),
-	- - N. D. U. C. Band
The Two Roses, - - Corby Glee Club
Alumni Poem, - Prof. T. E. Howard
Overture—William Tell—Rossini,
-	- - University Orchestra
Prologue to William Tell,
- W. J. McCarthy
WILLIAM TELL.
A Drama in Three Acts.
Dramatis Persons:
Gesler, -	-	- G. F. Sugg
William Tell, - - - G. E. Clarke
Albert (his son), - - - C. Tinley
Sarnem (Gesler’s lieutenant),
D. Harrington
Rudolph, - ( -	- R. O’Connor
Melctal (Erni’s father), - - A. Zahm
Teh’s Father, -	-	- W. Arnold
Emi, )	Patriots in (	J M. McEniry
Furst, >	League with -	E. McGorrisk
Verner, )	Tell,	f T. F. Clarke
Lutold, ( Gerard, J	Austrians, -	i H. O'Donnell J F. Dever
Michael,	-	D. Danahey
Pierre,	— —	J. Solon
Theodore,		G. Tracy
Thursday, June 23, 8 A.M.
Opening March, - N. D. U. C. Band
LaCenerentola—Rossini,
University Orchestra
Valedictory, -	- F. W. Bloom
Solo, from the Messiah—Handel,
George Schaefer
Oration of the Day, Hon. W. W. Cleary, Covington, Ky.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS, AWARDING OF HONORS, CONFERRING OF DE-
GREES, ETC., AND CLOSING REMARKS.
mhe Notre Dame Scholastic
is the title of a neat 16-page paper published every week during term
time at the University. This journal opens a field for young aspirants
to literary fame, who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium,
allow their talents in this line to remain inactive. It also contains many
articles of an instructive and literary character from writers of mature
and acknowledged ability, thus rendering The Scholastic a valuable
publication for all who desire variety and instruction in their reading.
During the past years there have appeared in its pages many interesting
Biographical Sketches of men of note in Literature, Science, Painting,
Sculpture, etc., Essays in prose and verse, and Notes on Art, Music and
Literature, gleaned from the best sources. It will be the honest en-
deavor of the Editor, during the coming year, to merit the encourage-
ment given the paper in the past, and the high encomiums bestowed
upon it by gentlemen of high culture and by first-class papers among
the weeely press.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic attaches to itself
a local importance to students, to their parents, and to all who have in
former years attended class at the University, by a weekly summary of
events transpiring at Notre Dame, by personal notices of the old stu-
dents, weekly Rolls of Honor, Class Honors, and lists of excellence. Re-
ports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more
talented and energetic students, etc., will also find a place in this paper,
and keep parents and friends accurately informed on all that concerns
their children.
$1.60 FER ANNUM, Postpaid.—Single Copies, 6 ets.
Address	EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
St. Jftary's Academy,
One Mile West of Noire Dame University.
flu M ito |ph( toa
^S^LL the branches of a solid and complete education are taught at
St. Mary’s. The course is thorough in the Classical, Academical,
and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charge for French or German, as these Languages enter into
the regular course of studies.
The Musical depa rtment is conducted on the plan of the best Conser-
vatories of Europe.
In the Art Departme nt the same principles which form the basis of -
instruction in the Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the course of
Drawing and Painting. P upils in the Schools of Painting or Music
may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic, and Classical
courses receive the graduating Gold Medals of these Departments.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the pupils who have pursued a
special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art Department.
Prize Gold Medals are awarded in the following courses: German,
French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing, and Domestic Economy
in the Senior Department; and for Polite and Amiable Deportment
both in the Senior and Junior Departments.
Number of teachers engaged in Preparatory, Academic and Classical
Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6; Drawing and Painting, 5;
Instrumental Music, 10; Dress-making, Plain and Fancy Needlework, 7;
Simplicity of Dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, Address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. 0., St. Joseph Co., Ind.
The proximity of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s is a great convenience
to parents having children at both Institutions when they visit their
sons and daughters. An omnibus line between South Bend, Notre Dame,
and St. Mary’s, connects regularly with all trains arriving at South Bend.
Notre Dame before the Dire.
FOUNDED IN 1842
TBS XEW XOTBB-DMS
INCORPORATED IN 1844.