Annual Catalogue
OF THE

OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE
am
For the Academic Year 1882-83.
Annual Commencement,
THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 1883.
FIAT LUX.
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
O-
Board of Trustees.
---o---
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C.,
President.
REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
BRO. EDWARD C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
Officers of the UDiversity.
-------------------o---
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C..
President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. JOHN M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.,
Vice-President and Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
*
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C., Bro. LUKE, C. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,	Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C., Bro. LAURENCE, C. S. C.,
.	Bro. THOMAS AQUINAS, C. S. C.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Bro. FRANCIS REGIS, C. S. C., Bro. WIGBERT, C. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M. D., Physician.
Faculty.
----o----"
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Christianity.
Rea-. JOHN M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.,
Modern Languages.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
. Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Moral Philosophy.
Rev. THOMAS McNAMARA, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON, M. D.,
Human Anatomy and Physiology.
Rev. JOHN O’BRIEN,
c
Latin Language and Literature.
6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M., LL. D.,
Latin and- English.
ARTHUR J. STACE, A. M., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History^ and Librarian of the Lemonnier Library.
FLORIAN DEVOTQ, A. M., M. S.,
Mathematics,
A. C. UNSWORTH, A. M.,
English Literature.
p. f. McSweeney, ph. d.,
Natural Sciences.
WM. J. HOYNES, A. M., LL. B.,
La-w.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD, LL. M.,
Junior Course of La-w.
JOHN P. McCORMACK, A. B.,
English and Mathematics.
FACULTY.
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
JAMES SULLIVAN, C. S. C.,
English, Christian Doctrine, and Penmanship.
NICHOLAS IRMEN, C. S. C.,
*
German.
J. J. BURKE, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
JOSEPH THILLMAN, C. S. C.,
German.
WILLIAM VAN ROOSMALEN, C. S. C.,
French.
Bro. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
Book-Keeping.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy.
Bro. STANISLAUS, C. S. C.,
Phonography.
!	8	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
i
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C.S.C., Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.,
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.,	Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
Bro. REMIGIUS, C. S. C.,	Bro. THOMAS, C. S. C.
---o----
Department of Fine Arts.
MUSIC.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Organ, Piano, Guitar, and Flute.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Violin and Clarinet.
Bro. ANSELM, C. S. C.,
Vocal Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
J	Director of Band and Orchestra.
i	'
I
I	________
i
’	PAINTING AND DRAWING.
I
i	------
i	Signor LUIGI GREGORI,
|	Historical Painting.
FL ACKERMAN,
;	Architectural Painting.
‘	Bro. ANSELM, C. S. C.,
Dinear, Mechanical and Artistic Drawing.
Special Faculties.
The President of the University is ex-officio President of each of the Special Faculties.
Faculty of Arts.
Rev. Nicholas Stoffel, C. S. C.
Rev. Stanislaus Fitte, C. S. C.
Rev. John O’Brien.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., LL. D.
J. F. Edwards, A. M., LL. B.
A. C. Unsworth, A. M.
Wm. J. Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
Faculty of Science.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
P. F. McSweeney, Ph. D.
Arthur J. Stage, A. M.
F. Devoto, A. M., M. S.
John McCormack, A. B.
Commercial Faculty.
Rev. John M. Toohey, C. S. C.
Rev. T. McNamara, C. S. C.
Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M.
Bro. Remigius, C. S. C.
Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C.
Law Faculty.
Wm. J. Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
J. F. Edwards, A. M., LL. B.
A. C. Unsworth, A. M.
Eugene F. Arnold, LL. M.
Faculty of Civil Engineering.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Arthur J. Stage, A. M., C. E.
Florian Devoto, A. M., M. S.
Notre Dame University.
Early (Days.
University of Notre Dame was founded more
UpH than forty-one years ago. Two years later, or in 1844,
it was chartered by the Legislature of Indiana. At that
time but very limited progress had been made in the devel-
opment or settlement of the great region known as the
Northwest. Towns were few in number and small in size.
Great stretches of timber land or forest were numerous, as were
also swamps and marshes. While, as a rule, roads were bad, many
of them were worse than bad, being practically impassable. Rail-
G
roads were almost unknown in the West, and travelers were forced
to rely upon stages, or private conveyances, to carry them from
place to place, The transportation of heavy articles was generally
left to ox-teams ; and by the same primitive means immigrants
were ordinarily constrained to travel with their families and per-
sonal effects to their new homes in the West.
Foundation of the University.
At that period the Rev. E. Sorin, now Superior-General of the
Congregation of Efoly Cross, had occasion to travel extensively
through Michigan, Indiana and other States, in connection with his
missionary labors. In 1842 he visited this locality, and recognized at
once its many natural beauties. The Indians, who then lived here,
gave him a hearty welcome. All things contributed to make him
feel a special interest in the place. It seemed to him that in all
his travels he had not seen a locality more picturesque and beau-
tiful. The two lakes, glittering like jewels of nature in the sun-
shine, the higher ground surrounding them, and spreading off to
the horizon in pleasing undulations, with groves and prairie tracts
(MAIN BUILDING )
ERECTED AUG. 1873. DEDICATED SEPT. 87” 1879
■4
PROSPECTUS.
ii
admirably interspersed; and the St. Joseph river, with its tortuous
channel and romantic scenery, skirting the landscape in the dis-
tance, combined to form a spectacle of extraordinary charm and
loveliness. Appreciating all these advantages, the zealous and
indefatigable missionary determined to found here an institution
of learning that should be worthy of the locality, worthy of the
exalted aspirations he cherished, and worthy of the great cause
to which he had solemnly dedicated his life. In that spirit he
established here, upon the most conspicuous elevation above the
lakes, an educational institution that has expanded and grown
with the years—an institution now known as the University of
Notre Dame. Though the beginning was necessarily humble,
nevertheless there has been an annually increasing growth in the
usefulness, strength and influence of the institution. It is now
well and, we trust, favorably known throughout the United States,
while it has many friends in various other parts of the world.
Yet, it is by no means content to rest upon the credit of its past
achievements. Its officers, its Faculty, and all connected with it,
are determined that it shall continue undeviatingly in its course
onward and upward, ever directed and stimulated by the laudable
motives and enthusiastic zeal of its venerated founder.
Location.
The University of Notre Dame is located just north of the en-
terprising and flourishing city of South Bend, in the northern part
of the State of Indiana. Being about a mile and a half from the
corporate limits of the city, its location is peculiarly eligible, inas-
much as it thus combines the conveniences and accommodations
of the city with the salutary isolation, wholesome climate, and
many natural beauties of the country. The University buildings
are situated near the center of an extensive tract of land, comprising
several hundred acres, and belonging to the Congregation of the
Holy Cross. And thus is art afforded ample scope and opportu-
nity to supplement the many natural attractions of the vicinity, or
to train them to more striking manifestation. Indeed, this opportu-
nity has already been improved to a great extent, as is amply indi-
cated by the numerous walks through the grounds, the long lines
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of shade trees, the skilfully trained shrubbery, and the admirably
arranged promenades and recreation grounds for the use of stu-
dents. The ground north and west of the University buildings
slopes gently downward to the lake basin. The soil is somewhat
sandy and porous. Hence it is practically impossible for water
to accumulate in the vicinity and form stagnant pools. It is
practically impossible for noxious exhalations to rise and vitiate the
atmosphere. All things that can be mentioned appear to combine
to render the climate of this locality exceptionally wholesome.
Observation and experience alike testify to the peculiar eligibility
of the location selected for Notre Dame.
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position nearly central with reference to
the most important cities in the Mississippi Valley. For the sake
of illustration, the circle may be indicated by naming Chicago, Mil-
waukee, Omaha, Des Moines, Kansas City, St. Louis, Louisville,
Indianapolis, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Toledo and Detroit.
It is therefore readily accessible to persons coming from, not only
all parts of the Mississippi Valley, but also all parts of the Union.
The railroads especially available are the Lake Shore & Michigan
Southern, the Grand Trunk, the Great Western, and the Michigan
Central. The road last named is connected with South Bend by a
lateral line which runs southward from Niles, Mich., passing
through the University grounds. Omnibuses, or private convey-
ances, by which visitors may expeditiously reach Notre Dame, are
always to be found upon the arrival of trains at the stations of the
other roads named.
Discipline.
The regulations in force to maintain discipline among the stu-
dents are sufficiently liberal to meet the reasonable expectations of
all who conscientiously seek to conduct themselves as gentlemen.
To all such, the rules are very easy of observance. But as to any
who so far forget themselves, or who are so ignorant of the require-
ments of gentlemanly deportment as to act and comport themselves
otherwise, the rules are strict and coercive enough. Whenever a
student habitually pursues towards the Facuity or his fellow-students,
PROSPECTUS.
i3
for a given time, a particularly offensive course, or proves incor-
rigible, he forfeits all claims to the privileges of the University, and
is subject to expulsion.
There is probably no great educational institution in the country
in which students learn to know one another more intimately than
they do at Notre Dame. Friendships are formed here that last
through life. And it could hardly be otherwise, considering that
the students are brought, in connection with their several duties,
into daily and almost hourly contact. This fact, too, serves to
emphasize the importance of requiring compliance with regulations
calculated to render them courteous, upright, honorable, pure in
expression, respectful to religion, and emulous to excel as students.
The more general rules are calculated to subserve the personal
interests of the students, as viewed from the standpoint of their
physical needs. They are required to rise at the same hour in the
morning, and at the same hours during the day they have their
meals. All are required to retire as early as 9.30 o’clock p. m., and
the signal for rising and beginning the work of the day is given
at 5.30 o’clock a. m. Three times daily, too, all are required to take
necessary out-door exercise.
While students of all religious denominations are admitted upon
an equal footing to participation in the privileges of the University,
nevertheless, it is strictly a Catholic institution; and all students are
required to attend divine services at stated times, as on Sundays and
holydays. Persons who have noted with what rigor pupils in the
various sectarian institutions are required to participate in daily
worship, or “ chapel exercises,” can certainly not object to the
discipline in this regard which obtains at Notre Dame.
Other regulations suggested by experience, and sanctioned by
time as salutary, may be summarized as follows: 1. No branch of
study shall be discontinued without the permission of the Director
of Studies. 2. No student shall leave the University grounds with-
out the permission of the President or Vice-President, or the person
delegated to represent them. 3.. The use of tobacco is peremp-
torily forbidden, except to such students of the Senior Department
as have received from their parents written permission to use it. 4.
Intoxicating liquors of all kinds are absolutely prohibited. 5. Any
person who ’does damage to the property of the University shall
i4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE LAME.
be required to furnish compensation for the same. 6. Students
guilty of such misconduct as calls for reprehension may be required
to perform certain tasks in addition to those devolving upon them
in connection with their regular duties. 7- To guard against clan-
destine and improper correspondence the President reserves the
right to supervise the correspondence of students. 8. Books,
periodicals and newspapers received are subject to the approval
of the Director of Studies.
Education.
The standing of Notre Dame among the educational institutions
of the country is already established. It has struggled long and
energetically to attain the creditable rank which it now holds.
Sustained efforts are constantly making to raise the standard of
studies. No pains or expense has been spared to secure the
services of able, experienced and gentlemanly professors; and in
this respect the authorities of the University have ground for
believing that they have been especially fortunate. And it may
be repeated that constant and steady progress has been made.
The standing of the institution has advanced and kept unbroken
pace with its material growth. The log-cabin, which was here
dedicated to religion and education over forty years ago, gave place
in time to a building of fair size and creditable appearance; and
that, in its turn, to the magnificent edifice which was destroyed
by fire in April, 1879; thus making way for the present im-
posing buildings—which, in size, symmetry, general attractive-
ness, and special appropriateness for the purposes they are sev-
erally designed to subserve, can creditably sustain comparison
with structures of like nature in any part of the United States or
the world.
Another fact, too, is worthy of attention: There is no educa-
tional institution anywhere that affords students more generous
facilities than are enjoyed at Notre Dame for studying and making
substantial progress in wbrk. The comparative isolation of its
location offers to the students immunity from distractions of every
kind. The surroundings are all favorable to study—all tend to
promote diligence in work. “ Society ” throws no allurements in
the way of the student to tempt him from his duties. Association
PROSPECTUS.	15
with persons of depraved nature and bad habits is necessarily
avoided. Free from distractions, and apart from all vicious associa-
tions, the mind of the student is quietly supplied with all the knowl-
edge attainable in the schools; the judicious regimen and regular
physical exercise insure health and strength; and the course of life
pursued under the salutary discipline in vogue, serves to mould the
character and establish habits that go to form an upright, moral,
temperate and honorable man.
---o---
General Remarks.
Students are classified according to age as Seniors,JJuniors and
Minims. The Seniors range in age from 17 years upward. Their
dormitories, study-hall, refectory, wash-rooms, etc., are in the east-
ern half of the University. The Juniors, whose ages range from
13 to 17, occupy the western portion of it. The Minims have a
building exclusively for themselves. It is known as Minim Hall.
The three departments to which students are thus assigned, viz.,
the Senior, Junior and Minim departments, are entirely separate
from one another. Seniors and Juniors are seldom brought toge-
ther except in a few of the Collegiate Course classes. The Minims
have no direct intercourse with the students of the other depart-
ments. They have separate recreation grounds, dormitories, study
halls, etc. The accommodations are ample for 500 resident stu-
dents. The ventilation is exceptionally good. Scrupulous cleanli-
ness is everywhere visible. The fare is abundant and wholesome.
The buildings are heated by steam and lighted by gas, and hence
there is practically no danger of fire. But to guard against all
contingencies in that regard, there are on each floor exits and fire-
escapes that insure absolute safety. The class rooms are large
and well-lighted, as are also the rooms used by the literary, debat-
ing and other societies. The ornamental work in these rooms, as
exhibited more especially in the painting and frescoing, renders
them particularly attractive. There are several societies in the
University, and they afford opportunity for ample practice in de-
16
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
bate, essay-writing, declamation, dramatic peisonations, etc. All
who desire to join them may do so. Their meetings and exer-
cises are not only interesting and instructive, but also a source
of salutary diversion. The societies devoted more particularly to
the cultivation of music and the drama have always been very
popular, and many of their members frequently reach a higher
degree of skill than mere amateurs are expected to attain. This is
due to the fact that they are aided and stimulated by the sedulous
co-operation and encouragement of professors specially qualified to
impart instruction in music and the drama. Then, too, there are
societies particularly calculated to promote the interests of religion
and lead to a well-founded knowledge of Christian doctrine. By
means of essays, debates, and the discussion of philosophical sub-
jects, great readiness in argumentation, as well as felicity of expres-
sion, is attained. Boat clubs, base-ball clubs, etc., as well as the
bars, swings, turning-poles and other accessories of the gymnasia,
offer all requisite inducements to engage in salutary athletic exer-
cises. The students of all the departments are under the supervi-
sion of their respective prefects or professors; and, while they enjoy
all the freedom compatible with the requirements of good order,
they are firmly held to an observance of the courtesies and obliga-
tions recognized by gentlemen in their intercourse with one another.
But, then, there is very little occasion for the exercise of rigor in
that particular; for, in nearly all instances, the students of Notre
Dame come from homes in which they have been brought up
under the salutary influence of careful and proper training. By
precept and example they have been trained to recognize and
observe the courtesies characteristic of gentlemen. And to confirm
them as such is an important aim of the discipline in force at
Notre Dame.
EXPENSES.
f 71Y.4BK IC ITV ADVANCE.
Matriculation Fee, -	-	-	-	-	- $ 5 00
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION,
(Latin, Greek, and Modern Languages in-
cluded), Washing and Mending of Linens,
per Session, -	-	-	-	-	-	-150 00
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of Septem-
ber ; the second, on the first of February.
Graduation Fee. Classical Course, $io; Scientific Course,
$io; Commercial Course, $5.
Students who spend the Summer Vacation at the Uni=
versity are charged, extra, $40.
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may
per session :
Instrumental Music — Lessons
on Piano, and Use of Instru-
ment, -	-	.	-	$22 50
Lessons on Violin, -	-	12 50
f General Prin-
Vocal Lessons*} ciples, -	5 00
Vocal Culture, 15 00
Elocution—Special Course, - 5 00
Qualitative Chemical Analysis
student.
be taken at the rate mentioned,
Use of Library, -	-	- $ 1 00
Drawing, -	-	-	- -1000
Telegraphy, -	-	-	-	10 00
Phonography, -	-	-	- 10 00
Use of Philosophical and Chem-
ical Apparatus, - - - -	5 00
Oil Painting, - - -	- - - 15 00
taken at the expense of the
PROGRAMME OF STUDIES.
Preparatory Department.
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the Classical or
Scientific Course. Students who have completed them receive a diploma
admitting- them to membership in the Freshman Class. Those entering the
Course are expected to be able to read and write, besides having an ele-
mentary knowledge of Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.	.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—As far as the end of Regular Conjugations.
—Harkness.
?, Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.
—Harkness.
3 Historia Sacra.
II—ENGLISH.
I Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geog-
raphy of the United States, including Outlines of Physical
Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Hassard.
5	Penmanship.
HI—MATHEMATICS.	-
I Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Progressive Practical
Arithmetic.—Robinson.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	19
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology com-
pleted.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
3	Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II.—ENGLISH.
1 Grammar—Etymology Completed—General Rules of Syntax.
- —Harvey.
?, Letter Writing.
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa,
including Outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.
—Hassard.
5	Penmanship.
HI.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers
(exclusive), Progressive Pradical Arithmetic.—Robinson.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harkness.
2	Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.i to
Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3	Roman History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IL—GREEK.
I Grammar—From beginning to the Verb.— Goodwin.
2 Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek Ollendorff.—Kendrick.
III.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Higher
Arithmetic.—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.-LATIN.
i Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Second Part completed—Introduction to Latin Com-
position.—-Harkness.
3	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
IL—GREEK.
i Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 26th to 61st Lesson—Greek Ollendorf.
—Kendrick.
3	Jacobs’ Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.— Casserly.
4	Gospel of St. John—Selections by the Teacher.
HI.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic (completed)—From Percentage to Involution—
Higher Arithmetic.—Robinson.
2	Algebra (begun)—to Simple Equations—University Algebra.
—Robinsoiz.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	21
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I—LATIN.
1	St. Ambrose—Extracts.
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar— From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-Five Exercises, First Greek Book.
—S^encer^s Arnold.
3	Anabasis—First Book.
Ill—ENGLISH.
1	General Study of Syntax.—Harvey and Brown. *
2	Exercises—Composition.
3	Ancient History—To the Partition of Alexander’s Empire.
—Fredet.
IV—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Involution to the End.—Robinson.
2	Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive),
University Algebra.—Robinson.
22
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.
2	Cassar—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises — Third Part — Introduction to Latin Composition
Completed.—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
i	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.
.	—Spencer1 s .Arnold.
3	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
Ill—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.
Harvey and Brown.
2	Ancient History—From the Partition of Alexander’s Empire to
the end.—Fredet.
IV._MATHEMATICS.
1 Algebra—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Al-
gebra.—Robinson.
o
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to -pass a
strict examination in all the Sttidies of the three Preparatory
Rears, unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty
and 'pronounced satisfactory.
e
COLLEGIATE DEPARTMENT.

Collegiate Department.
--o-
I. CLASSICAL COURSE.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
«
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Lactantius—De opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
2	Virgil—Six Eclogues.
3	Sallust—Catiline.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.— Casserly.
5	Exercises—Prose Composition.
II.—GREEK.
i Grammar—Syntax—Goodwin.
z Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
3 Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Narrative Writ-
ing.—Hart.	"
3 Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra—(completed)—From Series to the end—University
Algebra.—Robinson.
2 Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.	'
I._LATIN.
i	Ovid—First and Thirteenth Books of Metamorphoses.
2	Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—Rules Completed.— Casserly.
II.—GREEK.
i Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.	’
2	St.John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
3	Cyropaedia—First Book.
24	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Composi-
tion.-—Spencer’s Arnold.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with Review
of Composition—Narrative and Descriptive Writing.—Hart.
2	, Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed)—Solid.—Loomis.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	LEneid—Virgil—Three Books.
2	Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Archias.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—From Rules to Versification.— Casserly.
IL—GREEK.
1	St. Gregory—Machabees.
2	Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
III.—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature—Essays.—Hart.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Conic Sections—Review.—Loomis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
. Human Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the Human
Body, and Nutrition.—Hrixl&y and Foibmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
I History of England.—Bztrkds Lingard.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	25
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
2	Horace—Odes.
3	Cicero—De Senectute.
4	Exercises—Selected.
5	Prosody.— Casserly.
6	Verses.
II.—GREEK.
1	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucydides—First Book.
3	Exercises—Selected.
Ill—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature (continued)—Essays.—Hart.
IV—MATHEMATICS.
1 Trigonometry—The entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
V—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.—Huxley
and Toumans.
VI—HISTORY.
1 History of England.—Burke's Ling ar d.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—LATIN.
1	Livy—Two Books.
2	Florace—Satires and Epistles.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen^
II—GREEK.
1	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
3	Homer—Odyssey.
4	Exercises—Selected.
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—ENGLISH.
I Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons,
z Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
I Logic—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Structural Botany.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.—Barker.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
i	Sophocles—(Edipus Tyrannus.
2	PEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
y Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
HI—ENGLISH.
i Elocution.
3	Original Discourses and Criticism.—He^bihrn.
IV—PHILOSOPHY.
i Ontology and Psychology.—San Severino.
V—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Systematic Botany.— Gray.
VI—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2 Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.—Barker.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	27
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintillian—Book X.
2	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
U	o
* 4 Composition—Original Themes.
IL—GREEK.
1	Plato—Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Theodicy and Ethics.— Jouin.
2	Dissertation.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1 Philosophy of Plistory.—Balmes and Schlegel.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological.—Dana.
VI.— MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy to Eclipses.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1 Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2> Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
IL—GREEK.
1	Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Aristophanes—Selections.
4	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by Professor.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Paleontology.—Dana.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Astronomy—From the Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
N. B.—During the four years of this course, students have an
opportunity of attending Lectures on Elistorical, Literary, Philo-
sophical and Scientific subjects.
Elective Studies.
Commercial—Book-keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing—(Figure, Landscape, Mechanical
and Architectural.)
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying.
Dogma.
II. SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
----o----
Note.— The. preparatory studies are the same as for the Clas-
sical Course, except that Latin or Greek may be replaced by one
of the Modern Languages.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—ENGLISH.
i	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2	Ancient History—To Partition of Alexander’s Empire.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with the subject matteT of
His tory.—Mitchell.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra—(Completed) From Series (inclusive) to the end—
University Algebra.—Robinson.
2 Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
HI—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy and Physiology—Structure and Mechanism
of the Human Body—Nutrition.—Mivart and Huxley.
2, Botany—Structural Botany.— Gray.
IV—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin*—(See Course of Modern Languages.
V—DRAWING.
i Linear Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I—ENGLISH.
i Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of
Composition.—Essays.—Hart.
* Students preferring to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades
of the Classical Course.
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
2	Ancient History—From the Founding of the City of Rome to
the end.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with subject matter of His-
tory.—M it ch ell.
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed), Geometry of Space
(Solid and Spherical).—Loomis.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy and Physiology—Nervous System and Hy-
giene.—Mivart and Huxley.
z Botany—Systematic Botany.— Gray.	■
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German oi' Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
i Architectural Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I._ENGLISH.
i English Literature—Entire Subject.—Hart.
2	, Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
i Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.—
—Loomis.
HL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geometry—(Conic Sections.)—Loomis.
2 Zoology—Structural Zoology.— Orton.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.	.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
i Machine Drawing.
———-—-—-—-—-—---------------------------------------
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	31
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—(Continued).—Hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
1	Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.— Gillespie.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Zoology—Systematic Zoology.— Orton.
2	Biology.—Huxley and Martin.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
1 Free Hand Drawing.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
2	Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics and Heat.
—Norton.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.—Barker.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Proper-
ties of Minerals.— Collins.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Isometry.— Warren's Plane Projection.
2	Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and
• Sepia.	‘
32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i General Geometry and Calculus.
2 Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
I Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism and Electricity.
—Norton.
2 Chemistry—(Elementary)—Inorganic Chemistry.—Barker.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
---------------------------------------------ColllHS.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
i	Theory—Perspective.
2	Practice—Exercises in the use of Water Colors.
• SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
.	L—MATHEMATICS.
i Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
2	, Geodesy—Field Practice.—Henck.
J
3	Mechanics—Statics.—Smith.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
i Logic and General Metaphysics.—Hill.
HI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Dana.
V	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	33
VI	.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Aerial Perspective and Decorative Art.
2	Practice—Use of Water Colors, etc.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Shades and Shadows.—Davies.
2	, Geodesy.
3	Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics.—Smith;
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Special Metaphysics—Lectures by the Professor.
2	Ethics.—Hill.
III	.—HISTORY.
1	Philosophy of History.—Balmes and Schlegel.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Paleontology.—Leconte.
VI.—LANGUAGES. '
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).*
Elective Studies.
Languages.—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts.—
Painting, Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music.—Vocal and
Instrumental. Dogma. Ecclesiastical History.
Any Student in this Course is at liberty to take any of these
Studies at any period of his Course, provided he can do so consist-
ently with his regular studies. In addition to the regular recitations
and practical illustrations in the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Lectures are given throughout the Course by the Professors.
* It must be remembei'ed that whichever of the Foui' Languages, viz.:
French, German, Latin or Greek, is taken up at the beginning of the Fresh-
man Year, must be continued to the end of the Course, or till satisfactorily
known.
SPECIAL COURSES.
35


to (f(b^ t^ ff'/.ozta (pabei..
Special Courses.
--Q-
I. LAW.
Numerous changes have been made in this Department. Chief
among them may be mentioned the extending of the course to a
period of three years, the raising of the standard of studies to the
most approved plane, and the partial substitution of the lecture
system for the compulsory use of text-books. The result meets
the expectations of all concerned. It may now be confidently
claimed that no law school in the country offers students superior
facilities for acquiring a thorough and practical knowledge of the
law. Young men in this Department pass through a course of
study that qualifies them to undergo the most searching exam-
ination for admission to the bar in any part of the Union. No
special preparation is requisite for matriculating. Any student
who is 17 years of age, and has a fair English education, is eligible.
Young men may enter the Department as students at any time
during the year; though, of course, it is more desirable to do so
at the beginning of a session.
Methods of Instruction.
Instruction is given by means of daily lectures, with accompany-
ing examinations, and the trial from week to week of moot-court
cases. The order of procedure in dealing with these cases corres-
ponds as closely as practicable with that followed in the trial of
actual cases in the regular law courts. The lectures embrace
the various branches of International, Constitutional, Commercial,
Maritime and Criminal Law, together with Medical Jurisprudence,
Common Law and Equity Pleading, Practice, Evidence, etc. Each
candidate for a degree is required to prepare and submit to the
Faculty a dissertation of at least 30 folio pages upon some legal
subject, the selection of whicli is left to himself. It should be
submitted at least six weeks before graduation, and it must be
38	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
satisfactory in substance and manner of treatment. The ele-
mentary text-books should, if practicable, be read collaterally with
the lectures. However, these lectures are so full and com-
prehensive that they cover all subjects likely to arise in connection
with even the most thorough examination. They deal with all
living- branches of the law, and the student who writes full notes
of them and diligently studies the same, acquires a complete and
reliable knowledge of its elementary principles. The decisions of
the courts are invariably based upon these principles, and it is the
aim of the course of instruction at Notre Dame so to impress them
upon the mind that they are not likely under any circumstances to be
forgotten. Their relations to one another are pointed out, the
growth of subordinate principles from them is explained, and the
construction upon them of actual or hypothetical cases emphasizes
the important office they serve in furnishing a key to complicated
questions of law.
While the lectures are complete enough to impart as general a
knowledge of the law as students require for admission to the bar
and practice in the courts, it is nevertheless deemed advisable to
urge them to pursue collaterally a course of reading. The works
here named are recognized and recommended as among the most
serviceable and popular of
Standard Law (Books:
Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries, (the use of which
is compulsory during the first year of the Course,) Walker’s
American Law, Reeve’s or Schouler’s Domestic Relations, Angell
and Ames on Corporations, Parsons on Contracts, Washburn on
Real Property, Story on Agency, Stephen’s or Gould’s Pleading,
Greenleaf’s or Wharton’s Evidence, Story on Bailments, Parsons
on Bills, Parsons on Partnership, Bishop on Marriage and Divorce,
Wharton’s Criminal Law, Willard’s Equity, Story’s Equity Plead-
ings, Cooley on Torts, Cooley’s Constitutional Limitations, Schouler
on Personal Property, Redfield on Wills, Wheaton’s International
Law, Story’s or Wharton’s Conflict of Laws, Benjamin on Sales,
Parsons’ Maritime Law, Washburn on Easements, Sedgwick on
the Measure of Damages, Freeman on Judgments, Freeman on
Executions, Tidd’s Practice, etc.
LAW COURSE.
39
Expenses.
All these books are available in actual practice, and consequently
students need incur no special loss in purchasing such of them as
they can find time to read. However, the matter of purchasing or
not purchasing them is, to a great extent, left optional with the
students themselves. It is not regarded as essential to read in con-
nection with the lectures more than a few of the most elementary
works indicated in the preceding list. The lectures are prepared
with reference to that fact; and one of the objects in view in so
preparing them is to place at a minimum figure the expenses inci-
dent to pursuing the study of law at Notre Dame. It does not
admit of doubt that many worthy and promising young men in
different parts of the country are deterred from gratifying a
cherished ambition to engage in the study of Law by the appre-
hension that they cannot meet the expenses. They fancy that
the single item of books demands an outlay of from $150 to
$300, or more. But that supposition is erroneous. The study
of Law can be pursued at Notre Dame without any noteworthy
expense, aside from what is voluntarily incurred. In that partic-
ular, there is probably no university in the country that surpasses
Notre Dame in the inducements offered to students. While the
incidental expense is merely nominal, the accommodations, which
include board, lodging, washing, etc., are excellent, and the course
of study covers a period of almost ten months in the year. In
other well-known institutions the annual duration of the profes-
sional courses is only six months. But it is hardly necessary to in-
dicate more particularly in this connection the special advantages
offered to students of the Law Department.
The Course of Studies.
The Law Course covers a period of three years. But in cases
where students are entitled to advanced standing, by reason of pre-
vious study, they may be graduated in two years, providing they
satisfactorily acquit themselves in an approved examination. Stu-
dents of the advanced class have the opportunity of reviewing
their studies by attending the exercises of the lower class. ’ The
authorities have been actuated by commendable motives in extend-
40
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ing the Law Course to three years. In the first place, they recog-
nize that the standing of the professions has been lowered by a too
indiscriminate admission to them of persons of limited education
and technical training of a narrow and circumscribed range. And
to such persons, generally, a professional life offers numerous dis-
appointments and temptations. It frequently proves to be a life
of barren results, and that fact is usually discovered too late to
admit of being readily remedied. Having made their choice, they
find themselves, as a rule, subject to circumstances that forbid a
change of occupation. It is also recognized that, as a rule, young
men do not make amends for defects in their education after becom-
ing involved in the activities of business. To guard against such
disappointments and mistakes it is sought to make graduation in
this Department a sufficient test of the education and professional
qualifications of the student to assure him that he is making a
proper choice, and to assure the profession that he may be admitted
to its ranks without detracting from its dignity or compromising
its honor.
With a view, therefore, to supplying young men with a good
general education, as well as professional knowledge, all the
departments and courses of the University are open to them.
Without extra expense, they may enter the classes and pursue the
studies of the Scientific and Classical courses. As they find time
and have inclination they may study Mathematics, the Natural and
Physical Sciences, Literature, Ancient and Modern Languages,
etc., in connection with the Law. And thus the authorities of the
University seek to meet the most exacting expectations of its
friends, and the public generally, by assuring to students of this
Department, not only qualifications of a high order in their pro-
; fession, but also a sound general education.
:	Such are some of the considerations that have influenced the
;	authorities to extend the Law Course to a period of three years.
। Students of this course mingle with the other students of the Uni-
[ versity, and, without distinction, have the same advantages, privi-
ly leges and accommodations. They are likewise subject to the same
rules of discipline. These rules have been adopted with reference
to the acknowledged fact that a high moral standard is an import-
ant requisite to an honorable and successful career. They are
calculated to shape the acts in accordance with such a standard, and
inculcate, at the same time, a wholesome tone of moral and profes-
sional ethics.
IL—CIVIL ENGINEERING.
----Q----
Candidates for admission into this Course must pass a thorough
examination in the Chemistry and Physics of the Scientific Course
and in the several branches of Pure and Mixed Mathematics, be-
sides Grammar, Rhetoric, History, Geography, and Geology. The
Course requires one year, as follows:
FIRST SESSION.
I.—DRAWING.
i Theory-—Shades, Shadows, etc.—Advanced Course in Perspec-
tive.
2	Practice—Topographical Drawing.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
i Civil Engineering—(Begun)—Mahan.
a Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
3 Pure Mathematics—Calculus reviewed.
-	SECOND SESSION.
I.—DRAWING.
i Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone-Cut-
ting.
o
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
i Civil Engineering—Concluded.—Mahan,
a Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
3 Hydraulics.
41
ill.—COMMERCIAL COURSE.
---o----
It will be seen that the course requires two years’ study for
graduation; it includes arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geog-
raphy, United States History, reading, orthography, penmanship,
book-keeping, and Commercial Law,—in other words, a complete
business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, especially
the great West in which we live, this Course is the most practical,
and one of the most important that an educational institution can
afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or the means to take
a complete College Course, in the Classics and Sciences, would
do well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan
of study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such
studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The consistent
training resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost
benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received
the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commer-
cial Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the
graduates of this Course a more complete business training than
can be obtained in any commercial college. Believing that a busi-
ness education includes something more than a mere knowledge of
Book-keeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few
weeks, the authorities have extended this course over two years,
the shortest time in which the studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a student desire during this period
to pursue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. General History
and Linear Drawing are especially recommended to the students of
this course. Many commercial students find it also to their advan-
tage to take up the study of German or French, for which there
are the amplest facilities. A talented and studious young man
42
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
43
may thus in the course of two years find himself in possession of a
most valuable practical education, which will fit him to take his
place in the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
BOTH SESSIONS.
i Arithmetic—Same as First Year Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Year Preparatory in Clas-
sical Course.
3	Geography—The amount included In both Sessions of Collegiate Prepara-
tory Course (Eclectic Series).
4	United States History-—-The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate
Preparatory Course.—Hassard.	'
5	Reading and Orthography.
6	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Arithmetic—Same as First Session of Second Year Preparatory in Clas-
sical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Session of Second Year Pre-
paratory in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping-—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.—
Notre Dame System.— Tong.
5	Penmanship.
SECOND SESSION.
i	Arithmetic—(Completed)—As in 2d Session Second Year Preparatory.
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory in
Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-Keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.—Notre Dame
System— Tong.
5	Commercial Law.
6	Penmanship.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-Keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:—
Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by Double
Entry; 1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of Merchan-
dise on Private Account; 2d Series, On account of others; 3d Se-
ries, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th Series,
44	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Importing and Exporting on private account, on account of others,
and account of ourselves and others in company; 5th Series, Re-
ceiving and forwarding Merchandise, the Management and Settle-
ment of Executors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling, Remitting,
Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of Exchange,
Banking—Private and Joint Stock—Steamboating, Railroading,
Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’ Accounts. Sat-
urdays are devoted to Commercial Law. Particular attention is
paid to the explanation of the Law of Negotiable paper.
- o ■
IV.-MODERN LANGUAGES.
GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—One Hundred Exercises.
2	Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—From the rooth to the 200th
Exercise.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Ahn’s Second German Book.
2	First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
MODERN LANGUAGES.
45
SECOND SESSION.
i Ahn’s Second German Book.
2	First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
THIRD YEAR
FIRST SESSION.
i Ahn’s Third German Book—75 Exercises.
3	Lescuebungen unn Erklaerung ausgewachtler Stuecke ans Bone’s Lese-
buch, erster Theil.
3	Deutche Grammatik—die Formenlehre. '
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—to the End.
2	Bone’s Lesebuch—Fortsetzung.
3	Grammatik—Wiederh’olung und Fortsetzung dei’ Formenlehre.
FOURTH YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Sprachliche und sachliche Erklaerung ausgewaehiter Stuecke aus Bone’s
Lesebuche, sweiter Thiel.
3	Deutche Grammatik,—die Satzlehre.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the End.
2	Lesen Erklaeren, Declamiren aus Bone’s Lesebuch, zweiter Theil.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortselzung der Salzlehre.
4	Compositions, and Introduction to German Classics.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
46	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
FRENCH.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fiva’s Elementary French Reader—Twenty Pages.
3	Orthography.
SECOND SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty-nine Lessons—Regular
Verbs.
2	De Fivas’ Reader—To the end.
3	Orthography.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty-five Lessons, and from page 261 to page
357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet’s Literature.	•
3	Letter-Writing.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to end of First Part, from
page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRS T SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Etymology.
2	Litterature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Telemaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other Modern Lang-
uages—especially the Spanish, a know ledge of which is now becoming so useful to
students from the southern and south-western States and Territories. .
MISCELLANEOUS.
47
Miscellaneous.
-----o------
<Post=Graduate Course.
The Students in this Course occupy themselves with Philoso-
phy, History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law,
Medicine, and Civil Engineering are optional studies of the Course.
Civil Engineering.
The Course of Civil EnMnecrinp' has been established of late
o	o
years, and it affords advanced students the opportunity of fit-
ting themselves for the practice of this eminent profession.
Natural and (Physical Science.
Students wishing to pursue a Scientific Course will find every
facility for doing so at Notre Dame. Fully aware of the demands
of the age, the authorities have spared neither pains nor expense
to meet all the requirements of the student of the Physical and
Natural Sciences.
. The (Physical Cabinet
contains an extensive collection of apparatus of the latest style and
most improved construction. Several of them were on exposition
at the Centennial, and obtained for those who exhibited them the
highest awards given for physical instruments. Among these may
be mentioned Kbnig’s Apparatus for analyzing sound, electrical
and optical apparatus by Edgerton, instruments for projection, etc.
Besides the apparatus designed for subjective use and for experi-
mental purposes in the class-room, there is a large number of select
instruments for lecture purposes, especially for illustrating those
interesting branches of Physics, Acoustics, Optics, Magnetism, and
Electro-Magnetism, and Statical and Dynamical Electricity. In
5o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Acoustics, the instruments for studying the origin and nature of
sound, the existence and interference of vibrations, together with
the beautiful apparatus designed by Lissajous, Kbnig and others
for the observation of sonorous vibrations by the optical and stro-
boscopic method, and by. means of manometric flames, are of the
most improved character. The instruments for illustrating Optics
are also most select and complete. Besides the stereopticons,
vertical lanterns, microscopes, spectroscopes, etc., for projection,
there is a large number of slides, transparencies, and preparations
for illustrating the various branches of Physical and Natural Science,
Astronomy, Architecture, Art, etc. The apparatus for the study
of spectrum analysis—including a fine Heidelberg spectroscope, a
collection of Pliicker tubes for obtaining the spectra of gases and
vapors—prisms, lenses, and other apparatus for projecting spectra
on the screen, as well as those used in studying the phenomena
of the double refraction and polarization of light, should also be
mentioned. For studying statical and dynamical electricity, mag-
netism, and electro-magnetism, there is a large number of electrical
machines, and batteries of different kinds, coils, helices, magnets,
electro-magnets, galvanometers, thermo-electric multipliers, Geisler
tubes, rotators, magno-electric and electro-magnetic machines, tel-
egraph apparatus, telephones, dynamo-electric machines and lamps,
of the Vanderpoel and Maxim types, etc.
The Chemical Laboratory
is fitted up with all the appliances necessary for the successful study
of General Chemistry and Chemical Analysis. As in the Physical
Cabinet, additions are constantly being made to- the Laboratory,
and it will be the object of the authorities to make it in all the de-
tails as complete and perfect as possible.
Lhe Museum of Natural History}
embracing large and rare geological, mineralogical, zoological and
botanical collections, is as complete in all its arrangements as the
student could desire.
The Mineralogical Cabinet
contains a large collection of minerals from all parts of the world.
MISCELLANEOUS.
51
It is especially rich in specimens illustrating the crystalline structure,
modes of occurrence, etc., of the various ores and minerals, and em-
braces a large number of magnificent specimens of pellucid quartz
crystals, cairngorm stone, amethyst, agate, jasper, sardonyx, chal-
cedony, geodes of various kinds, calcite of all the principal crystal-
line forms, amazon stone, fluorspar, mica, tourmaline, beryl, den-
drite, selenite, garnet, the various ores of gold, silver, iron, copper,
lead, zinc, as well as of the other metals of rare occurrence. For
the practical study of the physical properties of minerals the stu-
dent of mineralogy will find in this collection all he could wish
for. Besides this, there is also a rich store of specimens for blow-
pipe analysis.
The Geological Cabinet.
is very complete, both in the number and character of the speci-
mens it contains. It embraces fossils of all the geological forma-
tions, both of this country and Europe. Among them are many
unusually well preserved, and of more than ordinary size. In a
word, it is furnished with all the specimens that the student needs
to make the study of Geology easy and interesting.
Popular Lectures on the (Physical and .Natural Sciences
form one of the most interesting features in connection with the
Scientific Department. These are intended mainly for those stu-
dents who cannot or do not wish to take up the Scientific Course,
but who nevertheless desire to have a general knowledge of the
leading facts and principles of the Physical and Natural Sciences.
All these lectures, especially those on Physics and Chemistry, are
illustrated experimentally, and, to attain most effectually the object
in view, the best of apparatus and specimens, especially those de-
signed for projection, have been secured.
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of which is
so frequent and necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German Language—the classes of which are so numerously
52
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
attended—has been taught by five Professors during the past
scholastic year. The number of German students attending the
University is becoming greater every year. The study of French
is recommended to all students of the Collegiate Course. The
course of Spanish will receive special attention in future, and other
modern languages may be taught when required.
Telegraphy.
This branch invites the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. The Telegraph Department is fully organ-
ized, and is placed under the management of a skilful electrician.
Notre Dame is in direct communication with South Bend and the
rest of the world by electric wires.
(Phonography or Short=Hand}
of which Dr. Johnson said “its usefulness is not confined to any
particular science or profession,” and which, with a good educa-
tion, is a profession in itself, has been taught for many years at
Notre Dame. A knowledge of this useful art, besides being of in-
calculable benefit in the higher branches of education, will also be
found useful in professional life. By its aid, notes of readings and
lectures can be taken with the rapidity of thought and vocal utter- -
ance. Phonography has of late come into almost general use in
the mercantile community, to expedite correspondence, etc.; a
knowledge of the art will therefore be a recommendation to its
possessor for positions of confidence and trust, and thus perhaps
become a stepping-stone to fortune.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame
in the facilities offered to students for acquiring proficiency in
elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises are practical,
and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety. These exer-
cises are held in “ St. Cecilia Hall,” which is peculiarly adapted
MISCELLANEOUS.
53
for the purpose, being eligibly situated, large in size, and elegantly
furnished. They constitute an important part of the studies of
young men who strive to cultivate with success literature, oratory
and the dramatic art. The approved methods of stimulating and
developing the natural elocutionary powers are called into requisi-
tion as occasion seems to warrant. And to this end the drama re-
ceives a due share of attention. From time to time an appropriate ’
tragedy or comedy is rendered by students, on the stage of the
new Music Hall, with all the accessories and appointments cus-
tomarily in use in connection with dramatic performances. Four
public exhibitions are given during the year, while public literary
exercises are held seven times in the same period. An oratorical
contest is one of the notable features marking the close of the year.
For the purpose of encouraging and stimulating students to put
forth their best efforts, premiums and gold medals arc offered to
those who most distinguish themselves. When all these things are
duly considered, there need be no hesitation in repeating that, “ No
educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame in the w
facilities offered to students for acquiring proficiency in elocution.”
. Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to prepare for the Medical profession will
find opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Stu-
dies in this Department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy, and
Surgery. As a preparatory Course, that which is given here,
under L. Neyron, M. D., a graduate of the Ecolc de Medicine,
Lyons, leaves nothing to be desired.
(Drawing aud (Painting.
The University, which is becoming every year more widely and
favorably known as an art centre, enjoys ample facilities for im-
parting instruction in this branch. It possesses a large number of
models in all sorts of drawing, a fine Studio, and qualified and
zealous teachers of the art. The eminent artist Signor Luigi
Gre^ori, of Rome, is still in charge of this Department. .
O''	O	J-
Music.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has
able Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conser-
vatory system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent
Quartette, and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are some
of the leading features of the Musical Department.
54
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and
which has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students
during the past few years, will receive even more careful attention
in future, and it is hoped that this branch will become every year
more popular.
Astronomical Observatory.
A temporary Astronomical Observatory has been erected, in
which the fine instrument presented by the Emperor Napoleon has
been placed. The studies of the class of Astronomy arc thus
rendered practically interesting.
TeadingALooms.
The lower floor of the new Music Hall is divided into large and
neatly furnished Reading Rooms for the benefit of the Senior
and Junior departments. These Reading Rooms are supplied with
books and periodicals from the library, and students have access to
them durinsf the hours of recreation.
o	f
The Lemonnier Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers over iy,ooo volumes. A Reading-room has been opened
in connection with the Library, in which the following periodicals
are to be found on file, viz.: Atlantic Monthly, Lippincott’s Mag-
azine, Harper’s Magazine, Cornhill Magazine, Macmillian’s Mag-
azine, Geological Magazine, Blackwood’s Magazine, International
Review, North-American Review, British Review, Edinburgh Re-
view, London Review, Westminster Review, Contemporary Re-
view, Fortnightly Review, The Nineteenth Century, Le Corres-
pondant, Le Contemporain, Revue Catholique, Athenaeum, Acad-
emy, Scientific American, Science Review, Dublin Review, Lamp,
Catholic Quarterly, Catholic World, London Month, Alt und
Neue Welt, Der Hausschatz, besides a large number of dailies and
weeklies. The members of the Library Association desire to give
their Alma Mater a collection of books which can stand compar-
ison with those possessed by any other educational establishment of
the United States; therefore they call on the friends of the Uni-
versity to assist them by donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals
and manuscripts. All contributions should be addressed to the
Librarian of the Lemonnier Library, Notre Dame University,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
(NOTRE-DAME, IND.)
Minim Department.
----o---
For the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen,
there has been established a Department to which the most scrupu-
lous attention has always been paid by the College authorities; it
is known as the Minim Department, and has ever been one of the
greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as well as to all persons
visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an English education is here imparted, together with
a fundamental knowledge of Latin, French and German. Vocal
Music, Violin, Piano and Drawing form no extra charges—a con-
cession made by the authorities in order to develop this Depart-
ment, and thereby extend the advantages it affords for the mental,
moral and social culture of the young. The pupils of this Depart-
ment are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under whose maternal
and tender care they pass nearly the entire day. During the hours
of recreation, and while in the refectory and dormitory, they are
under the charge of kind and efficient Prefects,
o
(Discipline.
The following is the order of the day: Rising, at half-past six;
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercise in the Campus; half-past seven, study; half-
past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to twelve,
toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-past one, study;
half-past three recreation and lunch; half-past six, supper and rec-
reation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that
while the Minims devote never less than six hours a day to study,
they are never more than two hours in succession in the class-room.
The recreation and exercise in the fresh air, between each two hours
of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to their
classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision—during the hours of
56	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
recreation, as well as in the class-room and study-hall. The pres-
ence, however, of the Prefects, is far from being a restraint on the
amusements of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Prefects to
insist that their young charges shall always keep within the limits
of the strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take part in all
sports, organize games, and do everything in their power to foster
a love of healthy exercise. The play-ground consists of a fine,
level, four-acre field, well supplied with turning-poles, swings,
■ ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary gym-
nastic apparatus. That the boys make good use of them can best
be seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably
attracts the notice of visitors. Few places, if any, present a more
animated appearance than the Minims’ Campus at recreation hours.
Connected with the play-ground is a fine brick play-hall, 160 feet
long, heated by steam. There the boys play in rainy or cold
weather. In this building is one of the finest hand-ball alleys at
Notre Dame. Adjoining the grounds is a large orchard to which
the Minims have access in proper season. They are allowed so
many privileges of a similar nature that, among the students of the
other departments, they are often pleasantly spoken of as the “ priv-
ileged class of the little College world.” They write home once a
week. Particular care is taken to foster respect and affection for
parents. Though the toilet is made regularly before meals, yet, to
secure perfect neatness, free access may be had, whenever necessary,
to the wash-room—which is supplied with cold and warm water.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the clothing,
see to all the needs and to the comfort and convenience of the Min-
ims. Baths are taken every Saturday. Underclothing is changed
regularly twice a week. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly
dressed, and that the clothing be suitable to the season. As the
Sisters take entire charge of all these details, boys as young as six
years of age are received. They are separated from the larger
Minims and enjoy all desirable privileges.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim Department: that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to sup-
ply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Association, which
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
57
has been established with a view to give the students a start, as early
as possible, in Elocution. The Society is in charge of one of the
Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the talent of
these promising young orators. Meetings are held once a week,
after school hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure
as well as of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only the best
behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to member-
ship. To encourage this young Literary Society a Gold Medal
is annually awarded at Commencement, for Elocution, to the
most deserving member,
o
General (Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subject is much milder
than that which is suited to students more advanced in age. Re-
course is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in charge
endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing
to ^he boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose conduct and
application to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads of
Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic, a paper pub-
lished weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name mentioned in
these rolls is found to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil,
as its non-appearance is a punishment for the undeserving'.
Then, again, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of two
full years to all whose deportment has been generally satisfactory
during that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim
immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape his
conduct with a view of receiving an “ Honor.” The greatest care
is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to in-
culcate the practice of refined manners, and it is no doubt to the
fact that they show themselves at all times so polite and refined in
their habits that they are familiarly known throughout the Insti-
tution as the young Princes of Notre Dame—a title affectionately
bestowed upon them by the venerable Founder of the University.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building, known as the Minims’ Hall, affording ample
accommodation for over one hundred students, is devoted to their
58	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
use. It is four stories in height, ninety-five feet long, and forty -
five wide; heated by steam, lighted by gas, supplied with hot and
cold water. The ceilings in the Study Hall, Class Rooms, and
sleeping apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large
and numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The
Study Hall commands a charming view from each of its eleven
large windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary, beautiful
pictures, choice plants and beautiful flower caskets, etc. Besides the
pleasure the Minims derive from studying in this bright, beautiful
hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by coming into contact
with such refining objects. Fronting the building is a handsome
park, which with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers,
adds not a little to the beauty of the Minims’ Hall, as well as to the
happiness of the Minims.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and
others who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that while the Minims have every possible advantage to aid
them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a most
happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom as they
would under the care of their mothers.
EXPENSES.
Entrance Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	- $ 5 00
BOARD, TUITION, etc., per Session of Five
Months, -	-	-	-	-	-	-	- 125 00
— NO EXTRAS.—
(Studejzts who remain during the two Summer Vacation months
are charged, extra,
Each student on entering needs 6 shirts, 4 pairs of drawers,
6 night-shirts, 12 pocket-handkerchiefs, 6 pairs of winter stock-
ings, 6 pairs of summer stockings, 6 towels, 2 hats or caps, 2 pairs
of boots or shoes, 2 suits of clothes for Winter, 2 suits for Summer,
combs, brushes, etc.; 1 overcoat.
Catalogue of Students.
From September 1882, to June 1883.
Illinois.
Illinois.
District of Columbia.
Ohio.
New Mexico.
New Mexico.
Indiana.
Adams, Edward........................
Ackhoff, Charles.....................
Arnold, William H....................
Ayers, William.......................
Armijo, John C.......................
Armijo, David........................
Ackerman, Hubert.....................
Austin, H. L............................Colorado.
Anderson, Robert Marshal................Ohio.
Allen, Dee..............................Michigan.
Ashford, Thomas.........................Nebraska.
Ankeny, B. F............................Iowa.
Arnold, Benjamin........................Illinois.
Adler, Abraham..........................Illinois.
Anglin, James...........................Indiana.
Arkins, Eddie...........................Colorado.
Brown, Joseph F......
Brown, Albert A......
Brice, Frank.........
Beall, Joseph........
Bannantine, Theodore
Baurmann, Ernest. ...
Bowers, William E...
Bailey, Edwin........
Bunker, Irving L.....
Berthelet, William E,
Brady, Joseph J......
Burns, Michael T....
Brewster, Albert S...
Bush, Hugh J........
Bacon, William..............
Bailey, William.......
Bolton, Wm. S.........
Becerra, Rapheal......
Ball, Fred. W.........
Blackman, Edward. ..
Burlingame, William.
Burke, John Alfred..:
Burke, Vernon..................
Black, F. P...........
Brown, Anson R........
Brooks, Harry.........
Buchanan, Edward...
Banigan, John J.......
Texas.
Texas.
Iowa.
Michigan.
Missouri.
. Kentucky.
West Virginia.
Ohio.
Missouri.
.Wisconsin.
. Illinois.
. District of Columbia.
. Colorado.
. Colorado.
. Illinois.
Massachusetts.
Ohio.
Mexico.
. Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Ohio.
. Ohio.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Indiana.
. Rhode Island.
6o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Castanedo, Gardner.....
Courtney, James........
Courtney, Joseph.......
Colyar, Arthur P.......
Crawford, J off. D.....
Cassily, Thomas........
Campbell, William M ...
Conway, James J........
Craig, Charles C.......
Cummings, M. P.........
Colwell, William II....
Celia, Louis A.........
Chaves, Jose...........
Coo ver, William E.....
Coad, John F...........
Clements, Grundy.......
Chelini, Eugene V......
Currier, Charles.......
Chouteau, Fred.........
Costigan, George P.....
Costigan, Edward.......
Coghlin, Amadeus.......
Coghlin, William.......
Clarke, Thomas F.......
Coaklev, T. W..........
Crawford, Samuel C....
Carroll, Thomas........
Cavaroc, Pierre Charles
Carroll, John T........
Carroll, 'Charles E....
Cain, Lew..............
Cain, Cort.............
Cleary, William S......
Coll, Arthur P..................
Chirhart, Albert........
Chirhart, Edward........
Cavanaugh, Edward. . . .
Cavanaugh, William....
Claffy, Daniel C........
Curtis, Fred D...........
Collier, Victory F. .
Comerford, Nicholas
Cole, Alphonsus....
Louisiana.
District of Columbia.
District of Columbia.
Tennessee.
Texas.
Iowa. '
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois
New Mexico.
. Indiana.
. Wyoming.
Kentucky.
District of Columbia.
. Ohio.
Illinois.
Colorado.
Colorado.
Ohio.
. Ohio.
Ohio.
. Massachusetts.
. Missouri.
. Indiana.
Illinois.
Dakota.
. Dakota.
. Illinois.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
. Pennsylvania.
. Indiana.
. Indiana.
Indiana.
. Indiana.
. Michigan.
. Michigan.
.Illinois.
.Michigan. ‘
. Illinois.
.Pennsylvania.
Donohue, Michael E.....................Massachusetts.
Dunford, Frank.........................Illinois.
Dunford, George........................Illinois.
Dirksmeyer, Henry......................Illinois.
Dunn, Henry P..........................Alabama.
Dwenger, Joseph II.....................Indiana.
Donnersbergcr, Anthony.................Illinois.
Drover, Herrmann.......................Indiana.
Devereux, J. Ryan......................Missouri.
Devereux, John P.......................Missouri.
Dorsey, A. D...........................Ohio.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	61
Dean, James C............................Ohio.
Dupke, Charles Henry.....................Kentucky.
Dillon, Eugene...........................Illinois.
Danielson, Fred. M...................... . .Colorado.
Dyer, Joseph P...........................Wyoming.
Dyer, Walter J........................... Wyoming.
DeHaven, George W........................Illinois.
Donohue, John............................Indiana.
Dolan, Michael...........................Iowa.
Droste, Charles E........................Ohio.
Dickerson, Sydney........................Colorado.
Dare, William............................Indiana.
Delany, John.............................Pennsylvania.
Delany, James............................Pennsylvania.
Dienhart, John F.........................Indiana.
Duffin, Charles........................ .West Virginia.
Devine, James............................Illinois.
Devine, William..........................Illinois.
Devine, Arthur...........................Illinois.
Delgado, Francis R.......................Mexico.
O	'
Dorenburg, John..........................Illinois.
Donohue, Patrick.........................Illinois.
Darling, Charles B. M....................Illinois.
Doherty, Harry F.........................Indiana.
Dennis, Waltei- E........................New York.
Dennis, Charles W........................New York.
De Laplaine, Channing....................Ohio.
Dungan, Le Paul..........................Ohio.
Divine, Richard L........................Illinois.
Ewing, Neal G............................Ohio.
Eaton, M. B..............................Indiana.
Eisenhauer, John M.......................Indiana.
Eisenhauer, Andrew.......................Indiana.
Farrelly, Fred...........................Illinois.
Freese, Fayette..........................Indiana.
Fehr, Frank..............................Kentucky.
Fishel, Fred.............................Tennessee.
Farrell, Joseph..........................Ohio.
Fitzgerald, Harry J......................Iowa.
Fleming, Robert E........................Kentucky.
Fitzgerell, Robert.......................Illinois.
Ferguson, Florian........................Mississippi.
Frain, Joseph............................Indiana.
Fendrich, John H.........................Indiana.
Foote, Moses L...........................Iowa.
Foote, Henry G...........................Iowa.
Flynn, Thomas:...........................Iowa.
Flynn, John..............................Iowa.
Fenlon, Edward J.........................Kansas.
Fenlon, Thomas P.........................Kansas.
Fulton, Frank F..........................Iowa.
Fogarty, William.........................Illinois.
Fogarty, John............................Indiana.
Fenton, John.............................Indiana.
Foster, Charles..........................Indiana.
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Finucane, John..........................Illinois.
Fix, Charles............................Illinois.
Freeman, Joseph.........................Iowa.
Fisher, Harley..........................Michigan.
Gibert, Leon G......
Grothaus, J. F. M....
Golonski, A. J......
Grange, W. F........
Gerlach, Edward B. ..
Garret, Clarence....
Gray, W. W..........
Goldsmith, Harry....
Guthrie, John W.....
Grever, Joseph......
Gooley, Michael.....
Gallagher, F. W.....
Gallagher, John F... .
Gall, Edward........
Gordon, Wm. M.......
Godfrey, Frank......
Grout, Alden R......
Gandrup, Thor. Oscar
Galarneau, Peter D ...
Graham, William M. .
.Louisian^.
.Missouri.
.Illinois.
Indiana.
Ohio.
.Iowa.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Ohio.
. Indiana.
Massachusetts.
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Colorado.
Iowa.
Ohio.
District of Columbia.
*
Henderson, F. E....
Hornady, Charles...
Hibbeler, Henry D..
Halligan, John........
HEopkins, Joseph....
Hetz, Jacob...........
Hetz, William D... .
Herrmann, Joseph..
Heustis, Guy..........
Hofstetter, William.
Flolbrook, Everet M.
Hess, Henry N.........
Hynes, Flarry.........
Harris, Charles R...
Hellebush, Joseph..
Hanavin, William F
Hagen, Paul...........
Flenry, John..........
Henry, William....
Heffernan, John M..
Heffernan, James L.
Hausburg, Charles..
Hagenbarth, Frank.
Flatt, Otto W.........
Hagerty, John.........
Flewitt, Albert.......
Harris, Thomas E. .
Harity, George........
Hickey, Harry.........
Howard, Allen.........
Handy, Frank L... .
Missouri.
Indiana.
Missouri.
Missouri.
Missouri.
. Michigan.
Michigan.
Kentucky.
. Indiana.
Tennessee.
.Iowa.
.West Virginia.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Ohio.
.Indiana.
Ohio.
Ohio.
.Kentucky.
Kentucky.
Iowa.
Idaho.
.Indiana.
.Missouri.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Colorado.
Illinois.
.Michigan.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
Johnson, Frank...........................Tennessee.
Johnston, Wm. H..........................Ohio.
Jeannot, William.........................Michigan.
Johnson, Paul............................Illinois.
Jones, Aaron.............................Indiana.
Johnson, Crawford........................Indiana.
Kolars, Charles C..
Kerndt, Charles....
Kahman, Joseph.....
Kimmel, Grant A....
Kellner, Fritz.....
Keefe, Philo A.....
Koehler, Anthony....
Kengel, Frank H....
Kelly, John M......
Kuhn, Ferdinand C...
Katz, Samuel.......
Kraus, John........
Kavanagh, Louis....
Keller, J. P.......
Kipper, George C....
Keegan, William....
Keegan, Joseph,....
Kelly, Joseph A....
Kelly, John A......
Kane, Terence......
Kelly, Michael.....
Kleiber, John......
Kelly, James J.....
Kauffmann, Charles J
Minnesota.
Iowa.
Missouri.
Indiana.
Kentucky.
Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Tennessee.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
. Kentucky.
District of Columbia.
.District of Columbia.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Texas.
Massachusetts.
Ohio.
Luther, James...........................Indiana.
Leffingwell, Robert L...................Illinois.
Ludewig, Charles........................Missouri.
Landenwich, George A....................Kentucky.
Lund, F. C..............................Illinois.
Larkin, John C..........................Pennsylvania.
Lease, E. L.............................Ohio.
Livingston, Joseph......................Indiana.
Lare, George............................Colorado.
Lindsey, Benjamin B.....................Colorado.
Lindsey, Chalmers.......................Colorado.
Lally, Thomas B.........................Michigan.
Lally, William E........................Michigan.
Miller, Andrew..........................Wisconsin.
Morrison, Richard G.....................Texas.
Mullin, Edward..........................Illinois.
Mug, William T..........................Indiana.
Morris, Thos. Roland....................Missouri.
Molloy, John J..........................Kentucky
Masi, William...........................Wyoming.
Miller, Frank...........................Ohio.
Moss, Ray...............................Kentucky.
Mueller, William........................Illinois.
64,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Morton, Frank........
Mason, Carlisle......
Muhlke, W. J.........
Marlette, James R....
Metz, Henry..........
Metz, Charles........
Murdock, Charles.....
Murdock, Samuel......
Murphy, William......
Monahan, Frank.......
Morse, Harry W. Jr....
Magoffin, James W. . ..
Metz, George.........
Murphy, John M.......
Munce, Edward........
Mulkern, M. B........
Murphy, F. X.........
Major, Ambrose.......
Martin, William......
Mason, Elliot B......
Mallory, William H....
Mathers, Lafayette...
Meyer, George........
Moross, George A.....
Mullen, Frederick....
Mullen, Arthur.......
McDonnell, John......
McErlaine, George....
McGrath, James.......
McGrath, Thomas......
McGrath, John.........
McGrath, Edward....
McGrath, John J. Jr.. .
McGordon, James......
McGordon, Charles. ..
McNamara, James......
McNamara, Thomas..
McCawley, Daniel.....
McIntyre, John.......
McCarthy, William J..
McCarthy, William H.
McGuire, Francis.....
McPhee, William......
McEniry, William....
McCartney, John......
McCartney, Bismark..
McNaughton, William
McManus, Bernard J...
McHale, John.........
McCabe, John.........
McGill, Thomas........
McKey, Frederick.....
Tennessee.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Mississippi.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Utah.
Texas.
Tennessee.
District of Columbia.
Pennsylvania.
Iowa.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Kentucky.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Missouri.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Michigan.
.Michigan.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Missouri.
Arkansas.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
. Missouri.
Missouri.
Ohio.
New York.
Missouri.
. Illinois.
Illinois.
Ohio.

Neeson, John.....
Noonan, Thomas F
Noble, Harry.....
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Ohio.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	65
Noble, Bertram..........................Ohio.
Nester, John............................Michigan.
Nester, Frank...........................Michigan.
Nelson, P. P............................Illinois.
Noonan, Frank...........................Colorado.
Newman, Robert..........................Michigan.
>	o
Nusbaum, Louis..........................Colorado.
Otis, Elmer A........
Otis, Frank..........
Otis, Albert J.......
Otis, Joseph Tilford.
O’Neil, Joseph P.. ..
Ohneck, Bernard C.
O’Connor, Martin...
O’Connor, Denis...
O’Brien, Ed. J.......
O’Donnell, Joseph P
O’Reilly, John.......
O’Connor, W. J . ...
Orchard, W.C.........
O’Dea, Michael.......
O’Donnell, James V
Ott, E. J............
.. U. S. Army.
. . U. S. Army.
.. U. S. Army.
. .U. S. Army.
.. U. S. Army.
.. Indiana.
. . Illinois.
.. Illinois.
.. Ohio.
. . Michigan.
.. Wisconsin.
. .New FIampshire.
. .Tennessee.
. . Ohio.
. . Illinois.
.. Ohio.
Peery, Albert J.............................Indian Ter.
Peery, Samuel L.............................Indian Ter.
Prindiville, William........................Montana.
Prindiville, David..........................Montana.
Pick, Albert................................Illinois.
Pick, Isidore...............................Illinois.
Pour, Louis.................................Illinois.
Parrott, Randolph...........................Illinois.
Papin, Rene V...............................Missouri.
Peters, Charles.............................Ohio.
Pillars, Stuart.............................Ohio.
Paquette, Frank.............................Michigan.
Peifer, Thomas L............................Illinois.
Porter, Harry...............................Wisconsin.
Porter, Charles T...........................Wisconsin.
Peaslee, Walter.............................Kansas.
Peters, John R..............................Massachusetts.
Quinlan, Cecil..............................Illinois.
Quinn, Frank A..............................Illinois.
Rhodus, James...............................Colorado.
Roberts, Albert P...........................Illinois.
Rea, Wallace................................Illinois.
Rebori, Vincent.............................Illinois,
Rothschild, Benjamin........................Illinois.
Rogers, John M..............................Illinois.
Robb, Charles S.............................Indiana..
Ratterman, William B........................Tennessee;
Reed, Henry W...............................Missouri.
Ryan, William........................*......Iowa.
66
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Mississippi.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Kansas.
Kansas.
Kansas.
Pennsylvania.
Ohio.
Reid, James A.......................
Rodgers, Lincoln....................
Rhodius, Georoe.....................
j	o
Roper, James E......................
Roper, Thomas R.....................
Ruger, William E....................
Ruppe, John.........................
Ryan, Thomas C......................
Ryan, Thomas Fred...................
Reach, Dickey L.....................
Ryan, James P.......................
Rudge, J. Edgar.....................
Sturla, Jacob J............................Tennessee.
Sommer, Otto...............................Illinois.
Stange, William J..........................Illinois.
Schmitz, Henry.............................Illinois.
Schott, William............................Indiana.
Schillo, Anthony...........................Illinois.
Seegers, George............................Illinois.
Solon, James...............................Illinois.
Stover, Frank..............................Indiana.
Smith, Charles T...........................Indiana.
Stull, Charles M...........................Indiana.
Smeeth, George.............................Illinois.
Schaefer, George...........................Illinois.
Seitz, Carl W..............................Ohio.
Steele, E..................................Ohio.
Scholfield, Benjamin.......................Illinois.
Sanford, Frank F...........................Illinois.
Simms, Reub. C.............................Illinois.
Smith, Logan C.............................Kentucky.
Studebaker, Jacob M........................Indiana.
Saviers, Delno.............................Illinois.
Smith, James J.............................Ohio.
Spencer, Charles H.........................Indiana.
Spencer, Otis..........:....................Colorado.
Sells, Harry G.............................Indiana.
Snee, Harry................................Illinois.
Stamm, Fred B..............................Wisconsin.
Stamm, Geo. Theo...........................Wisconsin.
Sullivan, James............................Indiana.
Smith, Edward E............................Ohio.
Shannon, Louis.............................Dakota.
Smith, Harry...............................Colorado.
Schmauss, Edwd. J..........................Illinois.
Shricker, Joseph...........................Illinois.
Stewart, Alvah.............................Indiana.
Stark, B. C................................Indiana.
St. John, Fred.............................Indiana.
Start, J. William..........................Illinois.
Subert, Max................................Illinois.
Talbot, John Joseph...................Indiana.
Taylor, Daniel........................Missouri.
Thompson, Marshal......../............Ohio.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
Thomas, E. A............................Illinois.
Taggart, A. T..........................Ohio.
Tinley, Charles A......................Kentucky.
Terrazas, Alberto...................... Mexico.
Terrazas, Federico.....................Mexico.
Turnock, Harry.........................Indiana.
Twohig, James..........................Nebraska.
Tomlinson, William.....................Indiana.
Tomlinson, Charles.....................Indiana.
Benjam, H. Thomas......................New York.
Unger, Samuel.....................................Illinois.
Violette, John W....
Veale, W. J...........
Wile, Eugene..........
Whitney, Frank S.. .
White, Mansfield....
Whelan, William.. . .
W orcester, William..
Wilkinson, A. W....
Warner, Anthony W
Warner, Joseph E...
Warner, James H....
Warren, William....
Walsh, Thomas.........
Walsh, Edward.........
Walsh, William........
Welch, William........
Warren, Philip E. ..
Waggoner, Fred G..
Wagoner, John C....
Wheatly, Frank........
Wendell, Alfred.......
Walsh, J ohn E........
Winsor, Ames..........
Wright, John..........
Wright, Willard....
Whitman, Harry R...
Whitman, Charles...
Witwer, Edwin C....
Wallace, Dean C.. ..
Wallace, R. Bruce...
Weber, Frank..........
Waixel, Solomon....
Wall, G. A............
Young, Charles........
Young, Louis..........
Yrisarri, Eugene......
Yrisarri, Paul........
Zahm, A. F...........
Zeigler, Charles.....
Zaehnle, Joseph......
Zeitler, Andrew......
Zarbuch, John........
Indiana.
Kansas.
Indiana.
Ohio.
Missouri.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Tennessee.
Tennessee.
Tennessee.
Tennessee.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Michigan.
Iowa.
. Illinois.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Massachusetts.
Indiana.
Colorado.
.Colorado.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
Montana.
Montana.
.Indiana.
Illinois.
Dakota.
Indiana.
Indiana.
New Mexico.
New Mexico.
Indiana.
Wisconsin.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
Associated Alumni.
1882-3.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Hon.
President.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
Rev. Dennis A. Clarke, ’70, 1st
Vice-President.
Dennis A. Hogan, ’73, 2d Vice-Pres-
ident.
Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., ’76,
Secretary.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, ’62, Treasurer.
N. J. Clarke, ’74, Orator.
John G. Ewing, ’77, Alternate Orator.
Rev. M. B. Brown, ’62, Poet.
Arthur J. Stage, ’64, Alternate and
Historian.
Senior Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the
Senior Department, has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members. It was established
in 1845.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second, Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
W. H. Arnold, President.
M. T. Burns, Vice-President.
T. F. Clarke, Rec. Secretary.
A. F. Zahm, Cor. Secretary.
James Solon, Treasurer.
J. P. O’Neil, )
F.	E. Kuhn, j Censois-
G.	E. Clarke, President.
J. P. O’Neil, Vice-President.
M. T. Burns, Rec. Secretary.
R. E. Fleming, Cor. Secretary.
E.	A. Otis, Treasurer.
James Solon, £ c
F.	E. Kuhn, ^enS01i5-
70	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
LITERARY-
St. Aloysius Pliilodeiuic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851 (originally under
the name of the St. Aloysius’ Literary and Historical Society,) is
the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate
knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and debating
Society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in
writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Rev.«T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President. F. A. Quinn, Treasurer.
E.	A. Otis, Vice-President.	H. H. Noble, 1st Censor.
James Solon, Rec. Secretary.	W. Bolton, 2d Censor.
Jos. P. O’Neil, Cor. Secretary.	J. J. Molloy, Historian.
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultivation
of Oratory, Elocution, and the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
Prof. A. J. Stace, A. M., Dramatic
Critic.
W. H. Arnold, 1st Vice-President.
T. F. Clarke, 2d Vice-President.
A. Zahm, Treasurer.
W. H. Bailey, Rec. Secretary.
James Solon, Cor. Secretary.
M. E. Donohue, Historian.
M. T. Burns, Librarian.
F.	E. Kuhn, /
J. A. McIntyre, ) ProPelV Managers.
R. E. Fleming, Prompter.
F. W. Gallagher, 1st Censor.
C. A. Tinley, 2d Censor.
W. W. Gray, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
A. Zahm, 1st Vice-President.
J. P. O’Neil, 2d Vice-President.
W. H. Arnold, Hon. Vice-President.
C. A. Tinley, Treasurer.
J. A. McIntyre, Rec. Secretary.
W. J. O’Connor, Cor. Secretary.
J. Solon, Historian.
E. A. Otis, Librarian.
J. E. Walsh, 1 st Censor.
W. S. Bolton, 2d Censor.
F. E. Kuhn, Sergeant-at-Arms.
W. W. Gray, Marshal.
T. Flynn, )
II. IL Noble, $ Prompters.
R. E. Fleming, )
W. S. Clearv, \ Property Managers.
Columbian Literacy Society.
The Columbian Society was founded March 25, 1873, by the
late Rev. A. Lemonnier, C. S. C., for the benefit of the Commer-
cial Students.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
7i
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Rev. T. E. Walsh. C. S. C.. Director.
J. A. Lyons, Hon. President.
J. F. Edwards, President.
J. E. Farrell, Vice-President.
H. W. Morse, Jr., Treasurer.
W. H. Johnson, Rec. Sec.
Jas. J. Conway, Cor. Sec.
C. C. Craig, Historian.
E. Yrisarri, Librarian.
A. Jones, Marshal.
P. Nelson, 1st Censor.
H. Monahan, 2d Censor.
Columbian Dramatic Club.
1873. Its object is the cultivation of Elocution.
sst and 2d Sessions, 1882-83.
OFFICERS.
Rev. Father Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., )	,
1	r- c A t Promoters.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C.,
J. Farrell, 1st Vice-President.
J. Marlett, 2d Vice-President.
H. Morse, Treasurer.
D. Saviers, Rec. Secretary.
J. Conway, Cor. Secretary.
A. P. Coll, Librarian.
O. Spencer, Historian.
J. Grever, 1st Censor.
W. Ruger, 2d Censor.
P. Nelson, Sergt.-at-Arms.
C. C. Kolars, Marshal.
W. H. Johnson, [ p
H. Fitzgerald, ^ompieis.
E. O’Brien, Property Manager.
Scientific Association.
1882-3.
This Society was founded in the Spring of 1868 for the prose
cution of scientific researches. It contains three Departments, de
voted respectively to Natural History, Physics, and Mathematics
OFFICERS.
Birst Session.
Rev. J. Zahm, C. S. C., Director.
Albert.Zahm, President.
Fred. Kuhn, Vice-President.
Elmer A. Otis, Treasurer.
Jos. P. O’Neil, Cor. Sec.
G. E. Clarke, Rec. Sec.
Second Session.
Rev. J. Zahm, C. S. C., Director.
Albert Zahm, President.
Fred. Kuhn, Vice-President.
Elmer A. Otis, Treasurer.
Jos. P. O’Neil, Cor. Sec.
G. E. Clarke, Rec. Sec.
Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas.
This’Association was organized Nov. 4, 1882, for the purpose of
stimulating students to devote special attention to philosophical
studies. Monthly meetings are held at which such philosophical
most closely connected with the leading questions of the day are
72
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
subjects as are discussed. The disputations are conducted strictly
according to the Scholastic method.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., ]
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., j
‘ First Session.
Honorary Directors.
Second Session.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
P. F. McSweeny, Ph. D., Assistant
Director.
A. Zahm, President.
J. J. Molloy, Vice-President.
M.	T. Burns, Rec. Secretary.
W. H. Bailey, Cor. Secretary.
C. A. Tinley, Treasurer.
F. Gallagher, ist Censor.
N.	II. Ewing, 2d Censor.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
P. F. McSweeny, Ph. D., Assistant
Director.
M. E. Donohue, President.
J. J. Molloy, Vice-President.
T. Ewing Steele, Rec. Secretary.
W. J. O’Connor, Cor. Secretary.
C. A. Tinley, Treasurer.
F. Gallagher, ist Censor.
J. E. Farrell, 2d Censor.
Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union.
This Association is affiliated to the State and National Unions.
Since its establishment it has received the warmest encouragement
from the officers and Faculty of the institution, whose constant
effort has been to increase the number of its members.
Rev. T. E. Wals
Senior Branch.
Prof. J. A. Ej ons, President.
F. E. Kuhn, ist Vice-President.
H. II. Noble, 2d Vice-President.
R. E. Fleming, Rec. Secretary.
Jas. Solon, Cor. Secretary.
E. A. Otis, Treasurer.
u, C. S. C., Director.
Junior Branch.
Rev. T. McNamara, C.S.C., President
C. F. Porter, ist Vice-President.
W. T. Mug, 2d Vice-President.
A. A. Browne, Rec. Secretary.
Wm. Hetz, Cor. Secretary.
Wm. Jeannot, Treasurer.
.	125 members.
J unior Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
This Confraternity is composed of the students of the Junior
Department. It has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
V. Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
A. A Browne, ist Vice-President.
J. H. Fendrich, 2d Vice-President.
W. Jeannot, Rec. Secretary.
J. M. Courtney, Cor. Sec.
J. I-Iallegan, Treasurer.
D. G. Taylor, ist Censor.
Jas. Kahman, 2d Censor.
M. S. Foote, Sergeant-at-Arms.
M. O. Dolan, Standard Bearer.
W. J. Schott. Organist.
Second Session.
V. Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
A. A. Browne, ist Vice-President.
D. G. Taylor, 2d Vice-President.
J. H. Fendrich, Rec. Sec.
F. Johnson, Cor. Sec.
M. S. Foote, Treasurer.
M. O. Dolan, ist Censor.
H. N. Hess, 2d Censor.
Jos. Courtney, Sergeant-at-Arms.
H. T. Dunn, Standard Bearer.
W. J. Schott, Organist.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the
same time a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its
exercises include public reading, declamations, essays, debates,
dramatic, exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—
the elite of the Junior Department. Many of the plays acted upon
the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers
of its members, are written especially for them.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.,
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Bro. Anselm, C, S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
A. Brown, ist Vice-President.
D. Taylor, 2d Vice-President.
Perpetual Honorary Director.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Pion. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
A. Browne, ist Vice-President.
D. Taylor, 2d Vice-President.
74
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
C. Porter, Historian.
M. S. Foote, Treasurer.
J. Fendrich, Rec. Secretary.
J. M. Courtney, Cor. Secretary.
M. A. Dolan, ist Censor.
F.	Johnson, 2d Censor.
G.	Schaefer, ist Monitor.
Jos. S. Courtney, 2d Monitor.
W. J. Schott, Organist.
H.	Dunn, Sergeant-at-Arms.
W. Jeannot, Marshal.
H. S. Foote, ist Property Manager.
C. Ackhoff, 2d Property Manager.
J. McDonald, Prompter.
W. Muff, Historian.
M. Foote, Treasurer.
J. Fendrich, Rec. Secretary.
C. Porter, Cor. Secretary.
M. Dolan, ist Censor.
H. Foote, 2d Censor.
E.	Dillon, ist Monitor.
J. S. Courtney, 2d Monitor.
W. J. Schott, Organist.
W. Jeannot, Sergeant-at-Arms.
H. Dunn, Marshal.
F.	Johnson, ist Property Manager.
W. Bacon, 2d Property Manager.
G.	Schaefer, Clerk of Court.
R. Reach, Prompter.
St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
This Society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English
Composition and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Leon G. Gibert, ist Vice-President.
Philip E. Warren, 2d Vice-President.
F. Fishel, Rec. Secretay.
H.	Metz, Cor. Secretary.
F. Kengel, Treasurer.
A. Brewster, Librarian.
W. Hanavin, ist Censor.
P. Yrisarri, 2d Censor.
J. Livingston, Sergeant-at-Arms.
E.	Wile, Marshal.
J. Zaehnle, ist Costumer.
F.	Danielson, 2d Costumer.
T. D. Walsh, ist Prompter.
T. Ryan, 2d Prompter.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
A. Brewster, ist Vice-President.
F. Fishel, 2d Vice-President.
L. G. Gibert, Rec. Secretary.
E.	Wile, Cor. Secretary.
H. Metz, Treasurer.
J. V. O’Donnell, Librarian.
W. Hanavin, ist Censor.
F.	Danielson, 2d Censor.
A. Schillo, Sergeant-at-Arms,
J. Livingston, Marshal.
P. Yrisarri, ist Costumer.
W. Henry, 2d Costumer.
T. D. Walsh, ist Prompter.
T. Ryan, 2d Prompter.
Minim Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Societv of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the Christian world to contribute their share
towards the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of
heathenism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggre-
gate is considerable—while thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. Edward Sorest, Sup. Gen., Director.
Very Rev. A. Granger, President.
B. B. Lindsey, Vice President. D. Prindiville, Secretary. R. Papin, Treasurer. W. Masi, Censor. J. A. Kelly, Librarian.	W. A. Welch, j W. McPhee, (• Standard Bearers. W. Maguire, ) F. I. Otis, ) ,, W. J. Walsh, J Momtors-
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded Sept. 29, 1874, by Very Rev. Edw.
Sorin, Superior General C. S. C. It is composed of the students
of the Minim Department. It has for its object the practice of
devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety
among its members, and to provide the Church with the servers
required at Mass, Vespers, and the other Church offices. In 1875,
Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many special
Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX. of glorious memory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.,
Director.
Very Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. C.,
Assistant Director.
Mr. J. Sullivan, C. S. C., President.
Bro. F. Regis, C. S. C., Promoter.
H. Schmitz, Vice-President.
J. P. Devereux, Secretary.
J. Kraus, Treasurer.
R. V. Papin, Librarian.
W. Devine, 1st Censor.
J. Warner, 2d Censor.
F- J. Coad, Standard-Bearer.
Geo. Stamm, Sergt.-at-Arms.
Second Session.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, C. S. C.,
Director.
Very Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. C.,
Assistant Director.
Mr. L Sullivan, C. S. C., President.
G. Walsh, Vice-President.
J. Chaves, Secretary.
W. Welch, Treasurer.
J. McGrath, Librarian.
A. J. Otis, 1 st Censor.
C. Spencer, 2d Censor.
W. Walsh, Standard-Bearer.
J. P. Devereux, Sergt.-at-Arms.
^6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by Rev. T. E. Walsh,
C. S. C., and Rev. T. McNamara, C. S. C., on Nov. 15th,
is the study of Elocution, and the cultivation of the Dramatic
Art.
OFFICERS.
Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger,	"j
Bishop of Fort Wayne,	|
Very Rev. E. Sorix, Sup.-Gen’l ^-Hon. Directors,
of the Congregation of the Holy |
Cross,
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.,Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S- C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
Bro. Francis Regis, C. S. C., General
Critic.
J. J. McGrath, 1st Vice-President.
J. A. Hopkins, 2d Vice-President.
P. P. Johnson, Secretary.
F.	Whitney, Treasurer.
G.	Thomas, Librarian.
F. I. Otis, Marshal.
C. Harris, 1st Monitor.
W. P. Devine, 2d Monitor.
J. F. Nester, 1st Censor.
R. V. Papin, 2d Censor.
A. J. Kelly, 3d Censor.
E. Walsh, 4th Censor.
C. McGordon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
W. Prindivillc, Property Manager.
J
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
Bro. Francis Regis, C. S. C., General
Critic.
Geo. Costigan, 1st Vice-President.
R. G. Morrison, 2d Vice-President.
B. B. Lindsey, Secretary.
F. B. Stamm, Treasurer.
J. J. McGrath, Librarian.
F. I. Otis, Marshal.
W. Walsh, 1 st Monitor.
J. S. Chaves, 2d Monitor.
J. F. Nester, 1st Censor.
E. Walsh, 2d Censor.
C. Metz, 3d Censor.
J. Wright, 4th Censor.
W. Welch, Sergeant-at-Arms.
J. R. Devereux, Property Manager.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
MUSICAL.
University Orchestra.
Leader and ist Violin—Prof. D. Paul, ist Violin—Bro. Anselm, C. S. C.,
Bro. Leopold, C. S. C. 2d Violin—H. Foote, F. Johnson, McErlaine. Viola
—Bro. Basil, C. S. C. ist Violoncello—Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C. Contra
Bass—W. Schott. Flute—D. Saviers. Clarionet—J. Keller. Trombone—
Rev. J. Frere, C. S. C., and F. E. Kuhn ist Cornet—W. II. Arnold. 2d
Cornet—F. A. Quinn. French Horn—Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., and R. E.
Fleming. Drum—H. Noble.
Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
Director—Prof. D. Paul. E^ Cornet—J. Marlette, J. Guthrie. E^ Clarionet—
J. Keller. B^ Clarionet—L. Kavanagh. Piccolo—D. Saviers. Solo B^ Cornet •
—W. H. Arnold, ist B^ Cornet—F. A. Quinn. 2nd B^} Cornet—J. Armijo.
Solo Alto—R. E. Fleming, ist Alto—J. McIntyre. 2d Alto—F. Wheatley,
ist Tenor—A. Coll. Baritone—F. B. Devoto. E^ Bass—F. E. Kuhn. B^l
Bass—J. P. O’Neil. Bass Drum—M. T. Burns. Snare Drum—H. Noble.
Cymbals—C. A. Tinley.
ATHLETIC.
University
Base-Ball Association.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Prof. F. B. Devoto, President.
H. W. Morse, Vice-President.
F. E. Kuhn, Treasurer.
Charles A. Tinley, Secretary.
F. P. Wheatley, )
F. D. Gallagher, CaPtains-
Second Session.
Prof. F. B. Devoto, President.
H. H. Noble, Vice-President.
R. E. Fleming, Treasurer.
C. A. Tinlev, Secretary.
F. P. Wheatley, \ CaDtQins
F. D. Gallagher, j CaPtains-
Lemonnier Boat Clnb.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., President.
W. H. Arnold, Commodore.
W. J. McCarthy, Treasurer.
T. F. Clarke, Rec. Secretary.
F. E. Kuhn, Captain Evangeline.
F. W. Gallagher, Captain Minnehaha.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., President.
W. H. Arnold, Commodore.
F. E. Kuhn, Treasurer.
R. M. Anderson, Rec. Secretary.
F. W. Gallagher, Captain Minnehaha.
H. H. Noble, Captain Evangeline.
©
Conferring of Degrees, etc.
The (Degree of DOCTOR OF LAWS was conferred on
His Excellency, Don Luis Terrazas, Governor of Chi-
huahua, Mexico.
The (Degree of MASTER OF ARTS, in course^ was con=
ferred on
Rev. Jas. J. Quinn, Tolono, Ill.
The (Degree of MASTER OF ARTS, in honorem} was
conferred on
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Pittsburg, Pa.
Eugene F. Arnold, Washington, D. C.
The (Degree of Master of Sciences was conferred on
Geo. F. Sugg, (Class of ’81,) Chicago, Ill.
The (Degree of BACHELOR OF ARTS was conferred on
Rev. Jno. P. Quinn, Tolono, Ill.
Michael E. Donohue, Springfield, Mass.
John J. Molloy, Germantown, Ky.
Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
Wm. J. O’Connor, Manchester, N. H.
Wm. H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.
Francis A. Quinn, Tolono, Ill.
John J. Burke, Notre Dame, Ind.
8o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Robert M. Anderson, Circleville, Ohio.
Joseph P. O’Neill, U. S. Army.
William J. McCarthy, Booneville, Mo.
Ferdinand E. Kuhn, Nashville, Tenn.
The Tegree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
James M. Howard, Valparaiso, Ind.
John C. Larkin, Pottsville, Pa.
Medical Certificates were awarded to
&
Patrick F. McSweeny, Notre “Dame, Inch
William H. Arnold, Washington, D. C.
James Delany, Erie, Pa.
DIPLOMAS,
Admitting to the Freshman Class, were awarded to
Joseph S. Courtney, Washington, D. C.
Arthur P. Coll, Philadelphia, Pa.
Frank Wheatly, Maysville, Ky.
Charles Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.
Eugene Yrisarri, Bernalillo, New Mexico.
Wm. J. Schott, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Chas. I. Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wis.
Louis Kavanagh, Des Moines, Iowa.
Jas. Smith, Circleville, Ohio.
Daniel G. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.
Vernon Burke, Saybrook, Ohio.
Wm. E. Ruger, Lafayette, Ind.
John. H. Fendrich, Evansville, Ind.
Joseph J. Brady, Versailles, Ill.
Jno. M. Murphy, Washington, D. C.
Aaron Jones, South Bend, Ind.
Commercial Graduates.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Joseph S. Courtney, Washington, D. C.
Wm. Whalen, Wilmington, Ill.
Chas. I. Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wis.
Henry N. Hess, Wheeling, W. Va.
Dan. G. Taylor, St. Douis, Mo.
Clarence A. Garrett, Wapello, la.
Wm. T. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.
Louis A. Cella, Chicago, Ill.
Edwin C. Witwer, South Bend, Ind.
Michael A. Dolan, Charlotte, la.
Thomas Ashford, Homer, Neb.
Albert J. Peery, Quapaw, Ind. Ter.
Wm. Warren, Nashville, Tenn.
Nicholas J. Comerford, Minooka, Ill.
Frank H. Kengel, Detroit, Mich.
Certificates for Elocution were awarded to
Geo. E. Clarke, Cairo, Ill.
Wm. J. McCarthy, Boonville, Mo.
Jos. P. O’Neill, Columbus, O.
Jas. Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to
George Metz, Nashville, Tenn.
John Fenton, Chesterton, Ind.
The Grand Gold Medal for
fhil©g@phy
WAS AWARDED TO
SPRINGFIELD, MASS.
OOO
The Grand Gold Medal for
E^glig^ Eggayg,
(Presented by Mr. John R. English, Columbus, Ohio,)
WAS AWARDED TO
WASHINGTON, D. C.
ooo ~
The Grand Gold Medal,
Presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, III., to
the Student in. the Junior Department having
the Best Record for the Entire Year,
WAS AWARDED TO
LAFAYETTE, IND.
Class Prize Medals.
---o---
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to
Albert F. Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to Neal H.
Ewing, Lancaster, 0.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to Sydney
Dickerson, Denver, Colo.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
JUNIOR CLASS.
Medal awarded to Elmer A. Otis, U. S. Army.
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Medal awarded to Henry P. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to William H. McCarthy, Alma, Ark.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Medal was awarded ex cequo to Joseph S.
Courtney, Washington, D. C., and William Whalen, Wil-
mington, Ill.
Medal for Proficiency in Penmanship (presented by Colonel
Elmer Otis, U. S. A.,) was awarded to Otis Spencer, Denver,
Col.
Medal for Progress in Penmanship (presented by Prof. J. F.
Edwards, Notre Dame, Ind.,) was awarded to John L. Hagerty,
St. Louis, Mo.
84	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded
to Tuomas Ewing Steele, Lancaster, Ohio.	’
The Soiin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Moses S. Foote, Burlington, la.
The Corby Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Eugene Yrisarri, Albuquerque, N. M.
The Oechtering Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded
to Charles Kauffman, Cincinnati, O.
The Gold Medal for German was awarded to William J.
Schott, Fort Wayne, Ind.
The Edwards Gold Medal for History was awarded to Ama-
deus Coghlin, Toledo, O.
The Medal for Church History was awarded to Joseph P.
O’NeIll, Columbus, Ohio.
Medal for Philosophy of History was awarded to Albert F.
Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
Cold Medals for Oratory and Elocution.
For Oratory (presented by Rev. Dennis A. Clarke, A. M.,
Columbus, 0.,) was awarded to Charles A. Tinley, Covington,
Ky.
For Progress (presented by Prof. Joseph A. Lyons,) was
awarded to Albert A. Browne, Brownsville, Texas.
The Shea Medal for Proficiency was awarded to William S.
Cleary, Covington, Ky.
The Gold Medal in the Minim Department (presented by Very
Rev. Edward Sorin, Superior General C. S. C.,) was awarded to
Master J. J. McGrath, Chicago, Ill.
.The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal, presented by Rev. President
Walsh, was awarded to Benjamin B. Lindsey, Denver, Col.
(Closely contested by G. P. Costigan, Ouray, Col., and F. P. Nester,
Detroit, Mich.
Awarding of Honors.
----o-----
[The “ First Honor” is a Gold Medal awarded to students who have followed
the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment dur-
ing the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Charles Kolars, Le Suer, Minn.
Elmer A. Otis, U. S. Army.
James Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.
H. W. Morse, Frisco, U. T.
Albert Zahm, Huntington, Ind.
James Delaney, Erie, Pa.
Amedeus Coghlin, Toledo, O.
T. Flynn, Des Moines, Iowa.
C. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.
F. E. Kuhn, Nashville, Tenn.
A. J. Golonski, Chicago, Ill.
Eugene Yrisarri,
Albuquerque,
John C. Larkin, Pottsville, Pa.
W. J. O’Connor, Manchester,
N. H.
James Conway, Ottawa, Ill.
Joseph Farrell, Lorain, O.
S. G. Clements, Uniontown, Ky.
Harry Noble, Tifbn, O.
Joseph P. O’Neill, Columbus, O. S. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.
William Ryan, Dubuque, Iowa.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Albert A. Browne, Brownsville,
Texas.
Moses L. Foote, Bullington, la.
George Schaefer, Riverdale, Ill.
Michael Dolan, Charlotte, la.
Fred Fishel, Nashville, Tenn.
Henry Hess, Wheeling, W. Va.
John Halligan, Washington, Mo.
W. Jeannot, Muskegon, Mich.
Joseph Kahman, Washington,
Mo.
James I. Smith, Circleville, O.
D. S. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo.
C. Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wis.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
William A. Welch, Des Moines,
Iowa.
Rene V. Papin, St. Louis, Mo.
W. J. Walsh, Springlake, Mich.
Francis I. Otis, U. S. Army.
Charles A. McGordon, Muske-
gon, Mich.
F. A. Coad, Cheyenne, Wy. T.
Joseph Chaves, Belen, N. M.
John A. Kelly, Washington, D.C.
86
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
[The “ Second Honor ” is a Silver Medal awarded to those students who
have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose
deportment has been generally satisfactory.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
F Monahan, Chicago, Ill. J. Grever, Cincinnati, 0.
C. L. Smith, Morganfield, Ky. D. C. Saviers, Chicago, Ill.
F. Godfrey, Peru, Ind.	Stuart Pillars, Lima, O.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
C.	Droste, Cincinnati, O.
W. Hanavin, Cincinnati, O.
F. Kengel, Detroit, Mich.
Jos. Kelly, Washington, D. C.
W. Bacon, Chicago, Ill.
H. Metz, Chicago, Ill.
J. McGordon, Muskegon, Mich
C. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.
H. Hibbeler, Washington, Mo.
D.	McCawley, Clay City, Ill.
W. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
E.	Thomas, Chicago, Ill.
J. P. Devereux, St. Louis, Mo.
J. McGrath, Chicago, Ill.
J. S. Beall, Cassapolis, Mich.
L. E. Young, South Bend, Ind.
W. M. Masi, Cheyenne, Wyo.
H. Dirksmeyer, Chicago, Ill.
A. Roberts, Negaunee, Mich.
Among the many competitors for the Grand Gold Mason Medal
in the Junior Department, the following deserve special mention:
James Smith,
Charles Ziegler,
Joseph Courtney,
William Jeannott,
Henry Hess,
Daniel G. Taylor,
Albert A. Browne,
• George Schaefer,
Charles F. Porter.
Moses L. Foote,
John Halligan,
Carlisle Mason,
D. Reach,
CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses
of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the
whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Thos. Ashford,
W. E. Bowers,
Joseph J. Brady,
Arthur P. Coll,
Thomas Carroll,
W. Campbell,
L. Kavanaugh,
John Molloy,
G. McErlaine,
E. Mullen,
T. McNamara,
J. McNamara,
Michael O’Dea,
W. C. Orchard,
Louis Pour,
Randolph Parrot,
John Rodgers,
Otis Spencer,
William Whalen,
James W. Magoffin,
J. M. Eisenhauer,
George H. Smith,
Thomas P. Fenlon,
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
F. D. Curtis,
Charles Cavaroc,
Louis Cain,
J. R. Dorenburg,
Francis Fehr,
Charles Duffin,
A. Eisenhauer,
John Grothaus,
J. L. Hagerty,
Paul Hagen,
Charles Kerndt,
Michael Kelly,
William T. Mugg,
John McDonnell,
M. B. Mulhern,
Benjamin Rotschild,
Philip E. Warren.
D. L. Reach,
William J. Schott,
Anthony Schillq,
George Seegers,
Louis Shannon,
John W. Violette,
A. W. Wilkinson,
Willard Wright,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Geo. P. Costigan,
Edward D. Walsh,
Benj. B. Lindsey,
C. A. Lindsey,
J. A. Hopkins,
Frederick Stamm,
George T. Stamm,
James Warner,
Joseph Shicker,
Edward Schmauss,
Charles H. Spencer,
J. M. Studebaker,
Henry Schmitz,
John Kraus,
John Wright,
Wm. P. McPhee,
Wm. H. Colwell,
Irving Bunker,
Geo. A. Landenwich,
James Luther,
Maurice Cummings,
Edward Costigan,
Albert J. Otis,
Edward McGrath,
Arthur Devine,
Cecil Quinlan,
Charles Smith,
H. J. Ackerman,
Frederick Kellner,
Edward Adams.
Premiums.
Senior Department.
Anderson, R. M.—Accessit in Geology; Accessit in Mineralogy; Accessit in
General Physics; Premium in Mechanics.
Armijo, J. C.—Accessit for Violin.
Ashford, T.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th German; 3d
Premium in 1st Geography; xst Accessit in xst Book-Keeping; xst Acces-
sit in 1st United States History; Accessit in Elocution; 2d Premium in
Penmanship.
Arnold, W. H.—1st Accessit in Moral Philosophy.
Austin, H. L.—Premium in Elocution.
Black, T. P.—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Accessit in Penmanship; 1st Accessit
in Artistic Drawing.
Bailey, E.—4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Brady, J. J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar;
1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in xst Book-Keeping.
Burns, M. T.—1st Accessit in 2d Greek; Premium in Elocution.
Burk, J.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Burk, V.—2d Accessit in 2d Geometry.
Buchanan, E.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 1 st Reading;
xst Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium
in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Banigan, J. J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Carroll, J. T.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Carroll, C. E.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Accessitin 2d Book-Keeping.
Cleary, W. S.—Premium in 3d Greek; xst Piemium in English Literature; 2d
Accessit in Criticism; 3d Accessit in xst Christian Doctrine.
Clarke, G. E.—2d Accessit in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in Logic.
Coghlin, A.—Premium in xst Geometry; xst Premium in Modern History;
xst Premium in Ancient History; 2d Premium in English Literature; 3d
Accessit in Botany; xst’Accessit in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elo-
cution.
Coghlin, W.—xst Accessit in Rhetoric.
Conway, J.—xst Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d Accessit in Zoology; Premium in
Junior Course of Law; Premium in Elocution.
Celia, L.—xst Premium in xst Geography; xst Premium in xst United States
Flistory; xst Premium in Phonography.
Campbell, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Clements, G.—xst Accessit in xst Orthography.
Chelini, E. V.—5th Accessit in xst Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 3d Christian
Doctrine.
Coll, A.—Premium in Elocution.
Delaney, Jno.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
Donohoe, M. J.—Premium in Moral Philosophy; Premium in Mineralogy;
Accessit in Mechanics.
Drover, H.—3d Accessit in xst Grammar; xst Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; xst
Premium in Penmanship; xst Premium in Artistic Drawing.
Delgado, PI.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Premium in English Transla-
tion; 2d Accessit in Artistic Drawing.
PREMIUMS.
89
Dickerson, S. J.—3d Accessit in 1 st Algebra; xst Accessitin 4th Latin; xstAc-
cessit in 3d Greek; 1st Accessit in English Literature; Accessit for Flute,
Eisenhauer, J.—Premium for Violin; 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Ewing, N. H.—Premium in 2d Latin; Premium in 2d Greek; 2d Premium in
1st Christian Doctrine; Premium in Logic; Premium in Criticism; 2d
Accessit in Botany; 1st Premium in 2d Physics; 1st Accessitin 2d Chem-
istry.
Fitzgerald, H.—Premium in Elocution.
Flynn, T.—2d Premium in Modern History; Premium in Elocution; 1st Ac-
cessit in 3d German.
Flynn, J.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Fenlon, T.—2d Accessit in 1st Algebra; 1st Accessit in 5th Latin; 1st Acces-
sit in Trigonometry.
Fenlon, E.—rst Accessitin 1st Algebra; 2d Accessit in Trigonometry; Pre-
mium in Vocal Music; Premium in 2d French; 3d Accessit in Christian
Doctrine.
Fenton, J.—2d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d
Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Fleming, R. E.—Premium in 5th Latin; Premium in Mineralogy.
Farrell, J. E.—1st Accessit in Modern History; 1st Accessit in English Liter-
ature.
Freese, F.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Freeman, J.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d German.
Gallagher, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Gray, W. W.—Premium in 3d Latin; 2d Accessit in 6th Greek; 2d Accessit
in General Geometry and Calculus; 2d Premium in 2d Physics; 2d Pre-
mium in 2d Chemistry.
G rever, J.—Premium in Physiology; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; Premium
in Elocution; 1st Premium in Rhetoric.
Golonski, A.—Premium in Telegraphy.
Guthrie, J.—1st Accessit in 4th German; 1st Accessit in Modern History; 2d
Accessit in Surveying; Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in Phonog-
raphy ; 2d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Godfrey, F.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Grout, A.—1 st Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 1st Reading;
1 st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Galernean, P.—1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Garrett, C.—1st Accessit in 1st Grammar.
Heffernan, Jno.—2d Premium in 7th Latin; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doc-
trine; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; Premium in Telegraphy; 1st Accessit in
P honography.
Heffernan, Jas.—2d Premium in Modern History; xst Premium in Ancient
H i story.
Harris, E.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Jones, A.—Accessit in Elocution.
Johnston, W. H.—2d Accessit in English Literature; 2d Premium in Survey-
ing; Premium in Astronomy; 1st Accessit in Zoblogy.
Kleiber, Jno.—3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessitin 1st Arithmetic;
Accessit in Elocution; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit
in 8th Latin.
Keller, J. P.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st United
States History; 1st Accessit in English Composition; 1st Premium in
Vocal Music; xst Premium in Penmanship.
Kolars, C. C.—Premium in 5th Latin; xst Premium in Surveying; Premium
in Trigonometry; Premium in Junior Course of Law; Premium in Elo-
cution; 1 st Accessitin Christian Doctrine.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kohler, A.—2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Kuhn, F. E.—2d Premium in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Geology;
Accessit in General Physics; 4th Accessit in Vocal Music.
Kavanagh, L.—2d Premium in 1st United States History.
Keegan, W. P.—2d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Kaufmann, C.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d
Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in Vocal Music; 1st Premium in
3d Christian Doctrine.
Larkin, J. C.—2d Accessit in Mental Philosophy.
Lally, T. B.—Premium in Elocution; 4th Premium, in Penmanship.
Murphy, J. M.—2d Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium in Christian Doc-
trine.
Molloy, Jno.—2d Accessit in 1st Greek; 2d Accessit in Moral Philosophy,
McCarthy, W. J.—Premium in Mental Philosophy; 3d Premium in 1st Chris-
tian Doctrine.
McCarthy, W. H.—2d Accessit in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in Ancient
Plistory; Premium in Botany; 3d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
McCabe, J. J.—1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Monoghan, F.—Accessit in Telegraphy.
McErlaine, G.—Accessit in Phonography.
Marlett, J.—Premium for Violin; Premium in Elocution.
Muhlke, W.—1st Premium in Phonography.
Mullen, E.—2d Accessit in Special Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d German; 2d
Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Murdock, C.—2d Premium in 1st Algebra; Premium foi’ Piano; 3d Premium
in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Murdock, S.—3d Accessit in Vocal Music; Accessit for Piano.
McIntyre, Jno.—1st Premium in 4th Latin; 1st Accessit in General Geometry
and Calculus; 1st Accessit in Mineralogy; 1st Accessit in 2d Physics;
2d Premium in 2d Chemistry; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Magoffin, J. W.—Premium in Spanish; Premium in Vocal Music.
Morse, H.—2d Accessit in Ancient Plistory; 1st Premium in Elocution.
McNamara, T.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar.
McNamara, J.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Geography.
Morris, P. R.—1st Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Martin, W.—Premium in 2d Orthography.
Mathers, L.—3d Accessit in Trigonometry.
Noble, PL—Premium in Elocution.
Neeson, J.—Accessit in Telegraphy.
Newman, R.—4th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Accessit in 4th Algebra.
Ott, E.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d
Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium
in 1st United States Plistory; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Pre-
mium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
O’Dea, M.—1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st
Premium in 2d Book-keeping; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Orchard, W. C.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Geogra-
phy; 3d Accessit in 1st United States History.
O’Connor Wm. J.—Premium in 1st Latin; 2d Accessit in 1st Greek; 1st Ac-
cessit in French.
O’Neil, J. P.—Premium in English Plistory; 2d Premium in Ancient Plistory;
2d Accessit in Geology; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; 1st Accessit in 1st
Christian Doctrine.
Otis, E. A.—Premium in 3d Latin; 1st Accessit in 6th Greek; Premium in
General Geometry and Calculus; 1st Premium in 2d Physics; 1st Pre-
mium in 2d Chemistry; Premium in Elocution.
PREMIUMS.	91
O’Reilly, J.—1st Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Accessit in Physiology.
Porter, H.—1st Accessit in Modern History; 1st Accessit in Surveying; Pre-
mium foi' Piano; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Parrott, R.—4th Accessit in 1st Geography.
Pillars, S.—3d Accessit in Vocal Music; 2d Accessit in Penmanship; Accessit
in Telegraphy.
Peters, J.—1st Accessit in Vocal Music.
Quinn, F.—1st Accessit in 1st Latin; 1st Accessit in 1st Greek; 2d Accessit
in 1 st Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in Elocution.
Rogers, J.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 1st Reading;
1st Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 5 th Ac-
cessit in 1 st Book-Keeping.
Ruger, W.—4th Accessit in 1st Geography; Accessit for Piano; Accessit in
Telegraphy.	.
Ryan, W.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in Penmanship.
Rudge, J. E.—1st Premium in xst Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d
Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Steele, T. E.—1st Accessit in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in 2d Greek; 1st Accessit
in Logic; 1st Accessit in Criticism; 2d Accessit in Astronomy; 2d Pre-
mium in 2d Physics; 1st Accessit in 2d Chemistry.
Scholfield, B.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Accessit in Elocution.
Spencer, O. B.—Premium in Elocution; 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Smith, C. L.—4th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic.
Smith, G. H.—3d Accessit in Ancient History; 2d Premium in 4th Latin;
Premium in 6th Greek; Accessit in Elocution.
Saviers, D. C.—Premium for Flute; 1st Premium in Elocution; 1st Accessitin
1st Geometry; 2d Accessit in 3d German; Premium in Zoology; 2d Pre-
mium in Ancient History; 1st Accessit in Botany.
Solon, J.—2d Accessit in 4th Latin.
Tinley, C.—1st Accessit in Astronomy; 1st Accessit in Mental Philosophy;
3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Twohig, J.—4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Accessit in 1 st United States
History.	*
Witwer, E.—4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d
Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in
1st Book-Keeping; 2d Accessit in 1st United States History; 2d Accessit
in Vocal Music.
Whalen, W.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic;
3d Accessit in 4th German; 2d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping.
Whitman, H.—Premium in Elocution; 2d Accessit in 8th Latin; 1 st Premium
in Phonography.
Wall, A. J.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Pre-
mium in 5th German.
Warren, W.—4th Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Geography;
5th Premium in 1st Book-keeping; 3d Premium in 1st United States His-
tory ; 2d Premium in Penmanship.	,
Wheatly, F.—3d Accessit in 2d Geometry; Premium in Elocution; Premium
in Telegraphy.
Wendel, A.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Yrisarri, E.—1st Premium in 2d Algebra; Premium in Elocution; 1st Pre-
mium in Christian Doctrine.
Zahm, A.—2d Accessit in 1st Latin; Premium in 1st Greek; Premium in
Geology; Premium in General Physics; Premium in Elocution.
Zahnle, J.—2d Premium in Artistic Drawing.
92	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Junior Department.
Armijo, D.—Premium in 3d Geography.
Arnold, B.—3d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 4th Grammar;
Accessit in Vocal Music; 1st Accessit in 5th German.
Adler, A.—Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Bauerman, E.—2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Brice, F.—5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Penmanship.
Browne, A.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d Accessit in Rhetoric; Premium for
Public Reading.
Berthelet, W.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; xst Accessit in 2d Grammar;
6th Accessit in 3d German; 1st Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra;
2d Accessit in xst Reading; Premium in Telegraphy.
Bacon, W.—1st Accessit in 4th Algebra; 3d Accessit in 1st Book-Keeping;
1st Accessit in Special Arithmetic.
Bush, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium in Elocution; Accessit in
Penmanship.
Brewster, A.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Geogra-
phy; 1st Premium in United States History.
Braunsdorf, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Curtis, F.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d
Accessit in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in 1st United States History; 1st
Premium in 5th German.
Crawford, J.—2d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Cassily, T.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
Courtney, Joseph—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 1st Ger-
man; 1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Jth Latin; 1st
Accessit in English Composition; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Pre-
mium in Penmanship; Accessit for Public Reading; Premium in German.
Cavaroc, C.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic;
Premium in French; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium in 2d
Christian Doctrine.
Cain, L.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d
Premium in 2d Geography.
Droste, C.—4th Premium in Penmanship.
Danielson, F.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Dupke, C.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Devereux, R.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in Vocal Music
Premium in Elocution.
Dolan, M.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 1st
Accessit in Rhetoric; 1st Premium in 8th Latin; 2d Accessit in Public
Course Christian Doctrine.
Dorenberg, J.—2d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
De Haven, G.—Accessit in Penmanship; Accessit in Phonography.
Dunn, H.—1st Accessit Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution; xst Premium in
Penmanship.
Dillon, E.—xst Accessit in xst Arithmetic; xst Accessit in xst Geography;
xst Premium in United States History; 3d Premium in 1st Orthogra-
phy; xst Accessit in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in xst Book-Keeping; Ac-
cessit in Vocal Music.
Dwenger, J.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; xst Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Duffin, C.—xst Accessit in 3d Grammar; xst Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
PREMIUMS.
93
Devine, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Pemium in Vocal Music; Ac-
cessit in Elocution.
Darling, 0.—5th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; Ac-
cessit in Elocution.
Dennis, W.—2d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Dennis, J.—2d Accessit in 4th Grammar.
Eisenhauer, A.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Foote, M.—1 st Accessit in 2d Geometry; 1st Premium in Architectural
Drawing; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; 1st Accessit for Public Reading.
Foster, C.—3d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d
Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography; 5th Premium
in Penmanship; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Foote, H.—Premium for Violin; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium
for Public Reading.
Fehr, F.—2d Accessit in Architectural Drawing.
Fishel, F.—Premium in 2d Geometry; Accessit in Elocution; 1st Premium
in Penmanship.
Gibert, L.—2d Premium in French; Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in
Elocution.
Grothaus, J.-—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 1st Premium in 2d Grammar.
Gerlach, E.—2d Premium in Penmanship; Premium in German.
Hagerty, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar;
4th Accessit in Christian Doctrine; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Pre-
mium in Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Reading; 2d Accessit in 1st Geog-
raphy; 3d Accessit in U. S. History; 2d Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Henry, J.—1st Accessit in 1st Geography; Accessit in Elocution.
Henry, W.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in xst Geography;
1st Accessit in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.
Hess, H.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 1st
Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in U. S. Historj ; 3d Premium
in Penmanship.
Herman, J.—1st Premium in 4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Halligan, J.—1 st Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic;
1 st Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1 st Christian Doctrine;
1 st Premium in United States History; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 2d
Premium in Penmanship.
Hanavin, W.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keep-
ing; Accessit for Piano; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Premium in 1st Chris-
tian Doctrine.
Holbrook, E.—-3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 1 st Arithmetic;
4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Plagen, P.—4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Howard, A.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Hagenbarth, F.—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Premium in Public Course Chris-
tian Doctrine.
Hetz, W.—1 st Premium in 2d Orthography; Accessit in Penmanship.
Handy, F.—1st Accessit in 2d Orthography; 3d Accessit in 4th Grammar; 2d
Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Johnson, F.—Accessit for Violin; 1st Premium in Vocal Music.
Jeannot, W.—2d Accessit in English Composition; 2d Accessit in 8th Latin;
Accessit for Public Reading; Premium in French.
Kahmann, J.-—2d Premium in 1st German; Accessit in Penmanship; Pre-
mium in German Translation.	.
Kerndt, C.—2d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar;
6th Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d
Accessit in 1st German; 1st Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; 5th Premium
in Penmanship.
94
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kengel, F.—3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; Accessit for Guitar.
Keegan, J.—1st Premium in 7th Latin.
Kelly, J.—xst Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st
Accessit in United States History; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Kelly, M.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic;
1st Accessit in 3d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Leffingwell, R.—1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Ludwig, C.—3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
McCawley, D.—£th Accessit in 3d Grammar; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
Mugg, W.—5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 1st Algebra; 1st
Premium in 1st Geometry; 1st Premium in English Composition; Pre-
mium in 3d German; Premium for Guitar.
McGrath, T.—Accessit in Telegraphy.
McGrath, J.—Accessit in Elocution.
Mason, C.—3d Accessit in 4th Algebra; Accessit for Violin.
Metz, H.—4th Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Murphy, W.—1st Premium in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic;
1st Premium in United States History; 1st Premium in 5th German.
McGordon, J.—Accessit in Phonography.
McDonnell, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Accessitin 2d Grammar;
2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Accessit in Reading; 3d Premium in 1st
Geography; 1st Premium in United States History; 4th Accessit in 1st
Book-Keeping; Premium in Elocution.
Mulkern, W.—1st Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in United States
History; 3d Accessit in 3d Algebra; 3d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Major, A.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d French; 2d
Accessit in 5th German.
McGill, F.—2d Accessit in 3d Geography; 1st Premium in 1st Reading.
Miller, O.—Accessit for Piano.
Nester, J.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
O’Connor, D.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Accessit for Piano; 2d Premium
in 1 st Reading*; 2d Premium in Phonogaphy, 3d Class.
O’Connor, M.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; Premium in Elocution; 4th
Accessit in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
O’Donnell, J. V.—1st Premium in 4th German; 2d Accessit in French.
Ohneck, P.—3d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic;
1st Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Reading; Accessit in
Elocution.
Porter, C.—2d Accessit in Modern Plistory; 2d Accessit in 5th Latin; Ac-
cessit for Piano; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Accessitfor Public Reading.
Ruppe. J.—3d Accessit in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Ryan, J.—2d Accessit in 3d Geography.
Reach, D.—1 st Accessit in 1 st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic;
1st Premium in United States History; 1st Premium in 3d Algebra; 1st
Accessit in 1st Reading.
Ryan, F.—1st Accessit in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Schott, W.—1st Premium in 1st German; 3d Accessit in 7th Latin; Premium
for Piano; 4th Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in 2d French; 2d Pre-
mium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; Premium in German.
Schillo, A.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d German; Accessit
for Piano; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Smith, J.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st
Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Premium in 2d Geometry; Premium in 2d
French.
Seegers, G.—1 st Accessit in 2d Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic;
1st Accessit in Architectural Drawing.
PREMIUMS.	95
Shannon, Louis—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 3d German;
2d Premium in 6th Latin; 1st Accessit in Christian Doctrine.
Stark, B.—1st Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Schaefer, G.—2d Premium in Architectural Drawing; Premium for Piano;
1 st Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium in Phonography; Accessit foi'
Public Reading.
Taylor, D.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography;
1 st Premium in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; Premium
in Elocution; 2d Premium in Public Course Christian Doctrine; 1st Pre-
mium for Public Reading.
Terrazas, A.—2d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 4th Accessit in 3d Grammar;
3d Accessit in 2d Geography; Accessit in Elocution.
Violette, J.—2d Accessit in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 5th German.
Warner, A.—2d Accessit in xst Reading; Accessit in Elocution; 3d Premium
in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Waggoner, J.—2d Accessit in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in yth Latin.
Wile, E.—2d Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 3d
Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premiumin Vocal Music; Premium in Elo-
cution ; Accessit in Phonography.
Waixel, S.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Wright, W.—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Weber, F.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Grammar;
1 st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Geography; 4th Pre-
mium in Penmanship; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Warren, P.—1st Accessit in 1st Orthography; 3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic;
4th Accessit in rst Geography; 3d Premium in Penmanship; 3d Accessit
in Public Course Christian Doctrine.
Wallace, B.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in 4th Algebra; 1st Accessit in Ancient History; 1st Premium
in 8th Latin.
Walsh, T.—2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in xst Arithmetic; 2d
Accessit in xst Orthography.
Ziegler, C.—2d Premium in xst Geography; 3d Accessit in xst United States
History; xst Preminin in Penmanship; 2d Premium in Sth Latin.
96	. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
M inim Department.
Ackerman, II. J.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d United
States History; Premium for Piano.
Adams, E.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 6th Reading;
4th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Anglin, J.—3d Premium in 4th Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine.
Beall, J. S.—ist Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Orthogra-
phy; ist Premium in German; ist Accessit in 3d Reading.
Bunker, I. L.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Penman-
ship ; 5th Accessit in 3d Geography.
Chaves, J. E.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar;
6th Premium in 6th Latin; Premium in Vocal Music.
Colwell, W. H.—ist Premium in 4th Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th
Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in 3d Reading.
Cain, C.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th
Premium in 3d United States History 5.3d Accessit in German.
Cummings, M.—7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in ist Chris-
tian Doctrine; 2d Premium in German; ist Accessit in ist Reading.
Costigan, G.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 5th Premium in ist Geogra-
phy; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Reading; 2d Ac-
cessit in Vocal Music.
Costigan, E.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5 th Orthography;
ist Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
Coad, J. F. A.—2d Premium in 4th Geography; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmet-
ic; £th Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Devereux, J. P.—5th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 7th Premium in 3d
Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in German.
Devine, W. P.—5th Premium in ist Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic;
7th Premium in 2d Orthography; ist Premium in Vocal Music; ist Ac-
cessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Devine, A.— ist Premium in 7th Reading; 2d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 2d
Premium in 7th Orthography. *
Delaplane, C. E.—2d Premium in 3d United States History; 3d Premium in
3d Penmanship.
Dirksmeyer, H.—ist Premium in 3d LFnited States History; 4th Premium in
4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in German.
Dungan, L. P.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 6th Premium in 6th Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Fix, C.—3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 4th Orthog-
raphy ; 2d Accessit in German.
Hopkins, J. A.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; 5th Premium in ist Orthogra-
phy ; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Hynes, H.—ist Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography;
3d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Harris, C.—5th Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic;
6th Premium in ist Reading; 3d Premium in German.
Huestis, G.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Reading;
4th Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
Johnson, P. P.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Arith-
metic; 3d Premium in ist Geography.
Kelly, J. A.—ist Premium in ist Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic;
3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 6th Premium in ist Reading.
PREMIUMS.
97
Kraus, J.—7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography;
6th Premium in xst Christian Doct.; 4th Premium in German; 3d Ac-
ccssit in Vocal Music.
Kellner, F.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 6th Reading;
2d Accessit in German; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Keefe, P.—2d Premium in 7th Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Orthography.
Luther, J. N.—2d Premium in 3d United States History; 4th Premium in
3d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d Reading.
Landenwich, G.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Chris-
tian Doctrine; 1st Accessit in German.
Lare, Geo.—4th Premium in 6th Reading; 6th Premium in 6th Orthography;
4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.	”
Lindsey, B. B.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar;
4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in xst Christian Doctrine.
Lindsey, C. A.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Orthog-
raphy; 2d Accessit in Vocal Music.
Masi, W. M.—2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Penman-
ship; Premium in Vocal Music.
Moss, W. R.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar;
3d Premium in German; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium
in 6th Latin.
Morrison, R. G.—xst Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in xst Read-
ing; 4th Premium in xst Orthgraphy; Premium in French.
Metz, C.—xst Premium in German; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 9th Pre-
mium in xst Grammar; 2d Accessit in United States History.
McGordon, C.—6th Premium in xst Arithmetic; 8th Premium in xst Penman-
ship; 6th Premium in xst Orthography; 2d Accessit in xst Christian Doc-
trine.
McPhee, W. P.—xst Premium in 5th Arithmetic; xst Accessit in 4th Read-
ing; 3d Premium in Vocal Music.
McGrath, J. J.—xst Premium in xst Reading; Sth Premium in xst Grammar;
3d Accessit in xst Christian Doctrine; xst Accessit in Vocal Music.
McGuire, W.—5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Orthog-
graphy.
McGrath, J.—Sth Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography;
’ 6th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Vocal Music.
McGrath, E.—xst Premium in 3d Christian Doct.; 4th Premium in 6th Read-
ing; 3d Accessit in 3d Penmanship.
McNaughton, W.—4th Premium in 7th Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Pen-
manship; Sth Premium in 7th Arithmetic.
McKey, F.—4th Premium in 6th Reading; 6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Mullen, F. J.—5th Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Chris-
tian Doctrine.
Mullen, A. B.—4thPremium in 6thReading; 6th Premium in 5th Geography.
Nester, F. P.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in xst Grammar;
4th Premium in xst Reading; 2d Accessit in German; 2d Accessit in
United States History.
Noonan, F.—xst Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 5th Reading;
5th Premium in 6th Geography.
Nusbaum, L.—6th Premium in 7th Reading.
Otis, F. I.—£th Premium in xst Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th
Premium in xst Geography.
Otis, A. J.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 6th
Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Papin, R. V.—4th Premium in xst Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic;
5th Premium in xst Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in xst Penmanship;
Premium in Vocal Music.
98	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Prindiville, W.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Arith-
metic; 8th Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian
Doctrine; 2d Premium in German.
Prindiville, D.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Ar-
ithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Quinlin, C.—1st Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 5th Christian
Doctrine; 2d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Roberts, A.—1st Premium in 5th Orthography; 4th Premium in 5th Reading;
6th Premium in 6th Geography.
Rebori, V.—xst Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th Ar-
ithmetic; 1st Accessit in 3d Geography; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Sommer, 0.—1st Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Reading;
Accessit in German.
Spencer, C.—1st Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthogra-
phy; 2d Premium in German.
Schmitz, H.—5th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar;
5th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in German.
Studebaker, J.—5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Orthog-
raphy ; 3d Accessit in German.
Stamm, F.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar;
1st Premium in German; 2d Accessit in United States History.
Stamm, G.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d United States
History; 1st Accessit in German; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Stange, W.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 1st Grammar;
5th Premium in 1 st Orthography; 3d Premium in German; Accessit in
Vocal Music.
Stewart, A.—6th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in German; 4th
Premium in 4th Orthography.
Schicker, J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Reading;
1st Accessit in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Schmauss, E.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar;
6th Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Accessit in German; Premium in
Vocal Music.
Smith, C.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic;
3d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Thomas, E.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Christian
Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Thomlinson, W.—1st Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5 th Premium in 5th Ar-
ithmetic; 3d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Thomlinson, C.—3d Premium in 6th Orthography; 7th Premium in 6th
Reading.
Walsh, W. J.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar;
4th Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in German.
Walsh, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th
Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Accessit in German.
Welch, W.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar;
2d Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Wright, J.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 6th
Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium in French.
Warner, J.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d German; 4th
Accessit in 2d Reading.
Whitney, F. S.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 4th Arith-
metic; 4th Accessit in 2d United States History.
Young, L. E.—7th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in 1st Penman-
ship; 8th Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Young, C.—3d Premium in £th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
THIRTY-NINTH
OF THE
University of Notre Dame, Indiana.
----------------o--
—^PROGRAMME.^—
Monday Evening, June 18^ at 7. 30 P, M.
CLOSING EXERCISES OF THE EUGLOSSIAN ASSOCIATION.
Tztesday Evening.
BY THE
HELLENISTS OF THE UNIVERSITY,
AND THE
ORPHEONIC ASSOCIATION.
Wednesday, June 20.
8.	00 a. m., Alumni Mass.
9.	30	“ Laying the Corner Stone of Science Hall.
10.	30	“ Regatta.	2. 00 p. m. Field Sports.
ioo	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Wednesday Evening.
Overture, Enchantment, (Herman)_____________________Orchestra
Oration of the Alumni_____________John G. Ewing, Class of ’77
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS—MIM DEPARTMENT.
Essay__________________________________...Robert M. Anderson
Flute Solo—“ Les Diamants de le Couronne” D. C. Saviers
Accompanied by Orchestra.
IVth Act Julius Ctesar______Messrs. C. A. Tinely, G. E. Clarke
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS-—JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
UNE FETE CHAMPETRE.
(PIC-NIC.)
Operetta — Orpheonic Association and University Orchestra
Essay________________________________.W. J. McCarthy
Music______________________________________Orchestra
Oration________________________________J. P. O’Neill
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS-—SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Music........__________________________N. D. U. C. B
Thursday, June 21, 8 a. m.
Opening March__________________________N. D. U. C. B
Song______________________________________Orpheonics
ORATION OF THE DAY,
By the Right Rev. John A. Watterson, D. D.,
Bishop of Columbus.
AWARDING OF HONORS, CONFERRING OF DEGREES, ETC., AND CLOSING
. REMARKS.
Grand Closing March____________________N. D. U. C. B
St Mapy's fleadei^Y.
One Mile West of the University of Notre (Dame.
I
CONDUCTED BY THE
the My Gf@ss.
----o----
HLL the branches of a solid and complete education are taught
at St. Mary’s. The course is thorough in the Classical,
Academical and Preparatory Departments.
No extra charges for French or German, as these Languages
enter into the regular course of studies.
The Musical Department is conducted on the plan of the best
Conservatories of Europe.
In the Art Department the same prim M _•, which form the basis
of instruction in the Art Schools of Europe are embodied in the
course of Drawing and Painting. Pupils in the Schools of Paint-
ing or Music may pursue a special course.
Those who have passed creditably through the Academic and
Classical courses receive the graduating Gold Medals of these
Departments.
Graduating Medals are awarded to the pupils who have pursued
a special course in the Conservatory of Music or in the Art
Department. Prize Gold Medals are awarded in the following
courses: German, French, Christian Doctrine, Painting, Drawing,
and Domestic Economy in the Senior Department; and for
Polite and Amiable Deportment both in the Senior and Junior
Departments.
Number of Teachers engaged in the Preparatory, Academic and
Classical Departments, 14; Modern Languages, 6 ; Drawing and
Painting, 5; Instrumental Music, 10; Dressmaking, Plain and
Fancy Needlework, y.
Simplicity of Dress enforced by rule.
For Catalogue, address
MCOTUEK, S1jP1^K.IOR,
St. Mary’s Academy, Notre Dame P. O., St. Joseph’s Co., Ind.
The proximity of Notre Dame and St. Mary’s is a great convenience to
parents having children at both institutions when they visit then- sons and
daughters. An omnibus line between South Bend, Notre Dame, and St.
Mary’s, connects regularly with all trains arriving at Soiith Bend.
Oe Notre Dame Scholastic
is the title of a neat 16-page paper devoted to the interests of the
students, which is published at the University every week during
term time. This Journal opens a field for young writers, who
might otherwise, for want of proper medium, allow their talents
to remain inactive.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive and literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches of men of note in
Literature, Science, Painting, Sculpture, ete., Essays, Poetry,
Notes on Science, Art, Music, and Literature, Notices of new
publications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has a
local importance for students, their parents, and all who have
attended class at the University in time past, on account of the
weekly summary of events transpiring at Notre Dame, personal
notices of former students, weekly Rolls of Honor, Class Honors,
lists of excellence, etc., which appear in its columns every week.
Reports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion
of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find a
place in this paper, and keep parents and others informed on
all that concerns their children and friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors, during the coming year,
to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past, and the
encomiums bestowed on it by the press in general.
$1.50 PICK A XN L M, Postpaid.
Address,	EDITOR NOTRE DAME SCOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Donations to the Museum.
A CARD OF THANKS.
The Curator of the Museum most gratefully acknowledges dona-
tions during the past year, of valuable specimens of Natural History
from the following persons:
Mr. and Mrs. L. H. Scott, Chihuahua, Mexico, a valuable collec-
tion of ores from the mines of Chihuahua.
Rev. F. X. Shulak, S. J., Chicago, Ill., a miscellaneous collection
of minerals from various parts of the country.
Col. A. Boone, La Veta, Colo., a collection of silver ores from
the Spanish Peaks.
Col. Elmer Otis, U. S. A., a number of interesting specimens
from Dakota.
Bro. John Chrysostom, C. S. C., some rare and valuable speci-
mens from the Pacific Coast.
Mr. Tingley S. Wood, of Leadville, Colo., a typical collection of
the minerals of Leadville.
Mr. T. W. Smith, Gen. Supt., and Mr. W. C. Melville, Ass’t.
Gen. Freight Agent, of the A. & P. Ry., Albuquerque, N. M., a
valuable collection of petrifactions from Arizona.
Mr. S. H. Lucas, Santa Fd, N. M., some choice turquoises and
garnets.
Mr. J. M. Studebaker, South Bend, Ind., a collection of gold and
silver ores from Colorado and the Black Hills.
Master F. Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho, ores of silver from
Idaho.
Mrs. S. S. Austin, Denver, Colo., specimens of Natural History
from Australia.
Mrs. Gov. Gilpin, Denver, Colo., specimens from New Mexico,
Jno. Cassidy, M. D., South Bend, a large and unique specimen
for the oreoloodcal Cabinet, from Mich.
Mr. O. Spencer, Denver, Col., silver and copper ores.
Mr. J. Fenlon, Leavenworth, Kan., minerals from Sonora, Old
Mexico.
io4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Mr. Jno. Hogue, Albuquerque, a collection of specimens of
Jasper wood from Arizona.
Rev. Fr. Gleason, C. S. C., gold orcs from the Black Hills.
Mr. Geo. Zahm, Socorro, N. M., specimens from New Mexico.
To other kind friends, also, who have in various ways rendered
him material aid in increasing his collections, the Curator returns
his most sincere thanks.
------o------
An Appeal.
One of the greatest losses occasioned by the disastrous fire that
laid the College buildings in ashes was the almost total destruction
of the
MUSEUM OF NATURAL HISTORY.
All the valuable collections of years were consumed,—only a
small collection of specimens that happened to be in an out-building
being spared. In order to repair this loss as far and as speedily as
possible, the Curator of the Museum respectfully solicits the aid
and co-operation of the friends and old students of Notre Dame,—
of those especially who live in mining districts, or where specimens
of Natuial History can be readily obtained. He would be particu-
larly obliged for specimens of
Minerals,	Fossils,
Shells,	Corals,
Alchoiiolic Preparations,
Indian Relics, Etc., Etc.
All collections, however small, will be thankfully received and
duly acknowledged in the columns of the Scholastic. All contri-
butions should be addressed to
Rev. J. A. ZAHM, C. S. C., Curator of Museum^
Notre Dame, Ind.

.J
A B A
^a.:
^§'1
w
a a
KSJ
: in
?
i iU
A' Q '
'f 3 "I
IS
w
A
F	*
r	1
n :
• < *Ux'
'•'
f 31
?'S ;
: 1 ’,
.. a •:
5 I
n .
I4
•3 4
' 6 -'.
•'5 .
•I 1
• S':
I
■ fiT
' S. -
X-8 !
-J I
>& I
a a t
’-<.§>,
X'Axl
^5 4
A J
^■1
VB t
■§ I
»11 -<
xa A
i §
:i 5 4
V S 1'
FOUNDED IN 1842.

tw
08WV
tr
Wu
aMUI
A®!
If 7' & 11
'h1'
'	14;( 1 !■

fete*
nt>I

w
k<iy
,
w
^5
CHARTERED IN 1844.
Ay. t
rs '
A 4