Annual Catalogue
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE
For the Academic Year 1883-84.
- OOP .
Annual Commencement,
Wednesday, June 25, 1884.
(
FORTIETH
Annual Catalogue
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
a
OF THE
HUW
For the Academic Year 1883-84.
. <K?O -
flMual G®m^en@e^eFib,
Wednesday, June 25, 1884.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA:
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
1884.
Board of Trustees.
--------------o----
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C.,
President.
REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S, C.,
Vice-President.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.
I
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
BRO. EDWARD, C.’S. C.,
Treasurer.
Officers of the University.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. JOHN M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.,
Vice-President, and Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C,
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C,
Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C, Bro. LUKE, C. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,	Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C, Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C,
Bro. ALBERT, C. S. C., Bro. JULIAN, C. S. C.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Bro. FRANCIS REGIS, C. S. C., Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M. D, Physician.
Faculty.
--------o-----
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C,
Evidences of Christianity.
Rev. JOHN M. TOOHEY, C. S. C„
Modern Languages.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
■ Rev. A. M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C,
Moral Philosophy.
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON, M. D.,
Human Anatomy and Physiology.
Rev. JOHN O’BRIEN,
Latin Language and Literature.
6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M, LL. D., .
Latin and English.
ARTHUR J. STACE, A. M., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History, and Librarian of the Lemonnier Library.
FLORIAN DEVOLO, A. M., M. S.,
Mathematics.
A. C. UNSWORTH, A. M.,
English Literature.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. B,
Lavj.
JOHN P. McCORMACK, A. B.,
English and Mathematics.
FACULTY.	7
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C,
English and Christian Doctrine.
JOHN P. THILLMAN, C. S. C.,
German.
JOHN VAN GELOVEN, C. S. C.,
French.
Bro. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
Book-Keeping.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy.
Bro. STANISLAUS, C. S. C.,
Phonography.
ALBERT F. ZAHM, A. B.,
Physical Sciences.
WM. J. O’CONNOR, A. B.,
Latin and English.
WM. J. KELLY, A. B,
Latin and English.
8	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER,	C. S. C.,	Bro.	EMMANUEL. C. S.	C.,
Bro. LEANDER, C.	S. C,	Bro.	PAUL. C. S. C.,
Bro. REMIGIUS, C.	S. C.,	Bro.	HILARION. C, S.	C.,
Bro. JULIAN, C. S. C. '
Department of Fine Arts.
MUSIC.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C„
Organ., Piano, Guitar, and Finite.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C,
Violin and Clarinet.
Bro. ANSELM, C. S. C.,
Vocal Music.
DAMPS PAUL,
Director of Band and Orchestra.
PAINTING AND DRAWING.
Signor LUIGI GREGORI,
Historical Painting.
H. ACKERMANN;
Architectural Painting.
Bro. ALBERT, C. S. C,
Artistic Dratving.
Bro. ANSELM, C. S. C.,
Linear and Mechanical Drazving.
Special Faculties.
The President of the University is ex-officio President of each of the Special Faculties.
Faculty of Arts.
Rev. Nicholas Stoffel, C. S. C.
Rev. Stanislaus Fitte, C. S. C.
Rev. John O’Brien.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., LL. D.
J. F. Edwards, A. M., LL. B.
A. C. Uns worth, A. M.
Wm. Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
Faculty of Science.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C.
Arthur J. Stace, A. M.
F. Devoto, A. M., M. S.
John McCormack, A. B.
Commercial Faculty.
Rev. John M. Toohey, C. S. C.
Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.
Bro. Remigius, C. S. C.
Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M.
John McCormack, A. B.
Law Faculty.
William Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
John Gibbons, A. M., LL. B.
Frank W. Young, LL.B.
T. E. Howard, A. M., LL. B.
Faculty of Civil Engineering.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Arthur J. Stace, A. M., C. E.
Florian Devoto, A. M., M. S.
Notre Dame University
Early (Days.
14

s HE University of Notre Dame was founded more
j than forty-one years ago. Two years later, or in 1844,
k it was chartered by the Legislature of Indiana. At that
time but very limited progress had been made in the
development or settlement of the great region known as
the Northwest. Towns were few in number and small in
size. Great stretches of timber land or forest were numerous,
as were also swamps and marshes. Railroads were almost un-
known in the West, and travellers were forced to rely upon
stages, or private conveyances, to carry them from place to
place. The transportation of heavy articles was generally left to
ox-teams ; and by the same primitive means immigrants were
ordinarily constrained to travel with their families and personal
effects to their new homes in the West.
Foundation of the University.
At that period the Rev. E. Sorin, now Superior-General of the
Congregation of the Holy Cross, had occasion to travel exten-
sively through Michigan, Indiana and other States, in connection
with his missionary labors. In 1842 he visited this locality, and
recognized at once its many natural beauties. The Indians, who
then lived here, gave him a hearty welcome. All things contrib-
uted to make him feel a special interest in the place. It seemed
to him that in all his travels he had not seen a locality more pic-
turesque and beautiful. The two lakes, glittering like jewels of
nature in the sunshine, the higher ground surrounding them, and
spreading off to the horizon in pleasing undulations, with groves
( MAIN BUILDING )
ERECTED AUG. 1879. DEDICATED SEPT. 8™ 1879.
i
PROSPECTUS.
ii
and prairie tracts admirably interspersed, and the St. Joseph
river, with its tortuous channel and romantic scenery, skirting
the landscape in the distance, combined to form a spectacle of
extraordinary charm and loveliness. Appreciating all these ad-
vantages, the zealous and indefatigable missionary determined to
found here an institution of learning that should be worthy of
the locality, worthy- of the exalted aspirations he cherished,
and worthy of the great cause to which he had solemnly dedi-
cated his life. In that spirit he established here, upon the most
conspicuous elevation above the lakes, an educational institution
that has expanded and grown with the years—an institution now
known as the University of Notre Dame. Though the beginning
was necessarily humble, nevertheless there has been an annually
increasing growth in the usefulness, strength and influence of the
institution. It is now well and, we trust, favorably known
throughout the United States, while it has many friends in vari-
ous other parts of the world. Yet, it is by no means content to
rest upon the credit of its past achievements. Its officers, its
Faculty, and all connected with it, are determined that it shall
continue undeviatingly in its course onward and upward, ever
directed and stimulated by the laudable motives and enthusiastic
zeal of its venerated founder.
Location.
The University of Notre Dame is located just north of the en-
terprising and flourishing city of South Bend, in the Northern
part of the State of Indiana. Being about a mile and a half from
the corporate limits of the city, its location is peculiarly eligible,
inasmuch as it thus combines the conveniences and accommoda-
tions of the city with the salutary isolation, wholesome climate,
and many natural beauties of the country. The University build-
ings are situated near the centre of an extensive tract of land,
comprising several hundred acres, belonging to the Congrega-
tion of the Holy Cross. And thus is art afforded ample scope
and opportunity to supplement the many natural attractions of
the vicinity, or to train them to more striking manifestation. In-
12	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I	‘
! deed, this opportunity has already been improved to a great
extent, as is amply indicated by the numerous walks through the
grounds, the long lines of shade trees, the skilfully trained shrub-
bery, and the admirably arranged promenades and recreation
grounds for the use of students. The ground north and west of
the University buildings slopes gently downward to the lake
| basin. The soil is somewhat sandy and porous. Hence it is
। practically impossible for water to accumulate in the vicinity and
। form stagnant pools. It is impossible for noxious exhalations
) to rise and vitiate the atmosphere. All things that can be men-
tioned appear to combine to render the climate of this locality
exceptionally wholesome. Observation and experience alike
testify to the peculiar eligibility of the location selected for
Notre Dame.
■	Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position nearly central w7ith reference
to the most important cities in the Mississippi Valley. For the
sake of illustration, the circle may be indicated by naming Chi-
cago, Milwaukee, Omaha, Des Moines, Kansas City, St. Louis,
Louisville, Indianapolis, Cincinnati, Pittsburgh, Cleveland, Tole-
do and Detroit. It is therefore readily accessible to persons
coming from, not only all parts of the Mississippi Valley, but
also all parts of the Union. The railroads especially available
are the Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk, the
Great Western, and the Michigan Central. The road last named
is connected with South Bend by a lateral line which runs south-
ward from Niles, Mich., passing through the University grounds.
Omnibuses, or private conveyances, by which visitors may ex-
peditiously reach Notre Dame, are always to be found upon the
arrival of trains at the stations of the other roads named.
(Discipline.
The regulations in force to maintain discipline among the stu-
dents are sufficiently liberal to meet the reasonable expectations
of all who conscientiously seek to conduct themselves as gentle-
men. To all such, the rules are very easy of observance. But

PROSPECTUS.	13
as to any who so far forget themselves, or who are so ignorant
of the requirements of gentlemanly deportment as to act and
comport themselves otherwise, the rules are strict and coercive
enough. Whenever a student habitually pursues towards the
Faculty or his fellow-students, for a given time, a particularly
offensive course, forfeits all claims to the privileges of the Uni-
versity, and is subject to expulsion.
There is probably no great educational institution in the
country in which students learn to know one another more in-
timately than they do at Notre Dame. Friendships are formed
here that last through life. And it could hardly be otherwise,
considering that the students are brought, in connection with
their several duties, into daily and almost hourly contact. This
fact, too, serves to emphasize the importance of requiring com-
pliance with regulations calculated to render them courteous,
upright, honorable, pure in expression, respectful to religion, and
emulous to excel as students.
The more general rules are calculated to subserve the personal
interests of the students, as viewed from the standpoint of their
physical needs. They are required to rise at the same hour in
the morning. And at the same hours during the day they have
their meals. All are required to retire as early as 9.30 o’clock
p.m., and the signal for rising and beginning the work of the day
is given at 5.30 o’clock a. m. Three times daily, too, all are re-
quired to take necessary out-door exercise.
While students of all religious denominations are admitted
upon an equal footing to participation in the privileges of the
University, nevertheless it is strictly a Catholic institution; and
all students are required to attend divine service at stated times,
as on Sundays and holydays. Persons who have noted with
what rigor pupils in the various sectarian institutions are required
to participate in daily worship, or “ chapel exercises,” can cer-
tainly not object to the discipline in this regard which obtains at
Notre Dame.
Other regulations suggested by experience, and sanctioned by
time as salutary, may be summarized as follows : 1. No branch
I4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of study shall be discontinued without the permission of the Di-
rector of Studies. 2. No student shall leave the University
grounds without the permission of the President or Vice-Pres-
ident, or the person delegated to represent them. 3. The use of
tobacco is peremptorily forbidden, except to such students of the
Senior Department as have received from their parents written
permission to use it. 4. Intoxicating liquors of all kinds are
absolutely prohibited. 5. Any person who does damage to the
property of the University shall be required to furnish compensa-
tion for the same. 6. Students guilty of such misconduct as
calls for reprehension may be required to perform certain tasks
in addition to those devolving upon them in connection with
their regular duties. 7. To guard against clandestine and im-
proper correspondence, the President reserves the right to super-
vise the correspondence of students. 8. Books, periodicals and
newspapers received are subject to the approval of the Director
of Studies.
Education,
The standing of Notre Dame among the educational institu-
tions of the country is already established. It has struggled
long and energetically to attain the creditable rank which it now
holds. Sustained efforts are constantly making to raise the stand-
ard oT studies. No pains or expense has been spared to sequre the
services of able, experienced and gentlemanly professors ; ‘ and in
this respect the authorities of the University have ground for be-
lieving that they have been especially fortunate. And it may be
repeated that constant and steady progress has been made. The
standing of the institution has advanced and kept unbroken pace
with its material growth. The log-cabin, which was here ded-
icated to religion and education over forty years ago, gave place
in time to a building of fair size and creditable appearance; and
that, in its 'turn, to the magnificent edifice which was destroyed
by fire in April, 1879 ; thus making way for the present impos-
ing buildings—which, in size, symmetry, general attractiveness,
and special appropriateness for the purposes they are severally
PROSPECTUS.	15
designed to subserve, can creditably sustain comparison with
structures of like nature in any part of the United States or the
world.
Another fact, too, is worthy of attention : There is no educa-
tional institution anywhere that affords students more generous
facilities than are enjoyed at Notre Dame for studying and mak-
ing substantial progress in work. The comparative isolation of
its location offers to the students immunity from distractions of
every kind. The surroundings are all favorable to study—all
tend to promote diligence in work. “Society” throws no allure-
ments in the way of the student to tempt him from his duties.
Association with persons of depraved nature and bad habits is
necessarily avoided. Free from distractions, and apart from all
vicious associations, the mind of the student is quietly supplied
with all the knowledge attainable in the schools; the judicious
regimen and regular physical exercise insure health and strength;
and the course of life pursued under the salutary discipline in
vogue, serves to mold the character and establish habits that go
to form an upright, moral, temperate and honorable man.
----o----
General Remarks.
Students are classified according to age as Seniors, Juniors and
Minims. The Seniors range in age from 17 years upward. Their
dormitories, study-hall, refectory, wash-rooms, etc., are in the
eastern half of the University. The Juniors, whose ages range
from 13 to 17, occupy the western portion of it. The Minims
have a building exclusively for themselves. It is known as St.
Edward’s Hall. The three departments to which students are thus
assigned, viz., the Senior, Junior and Minim departments, are en-
tirely separate from one another. Seniors and Juniors are seldom
brought together except in a few of the Collegiate Course classes.
The Minims have no direct intercourse with the students of the
other departments. They have separate recreation grounds, dor-
i6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
mitories, study-halls, etc. The accommodations are ample for five
hundred resident students. The ventilation is exceptionally good.
Scrupulous cleanliness is everywhere visible. The fare is abund-
ant and wholesome. The buildings are heated by steam and
lighted by gas, and hence there is practically no danger of fire.
But to guard against all contingencies in that regard, there are
on each floor exits and fire-escapes that insure absolute safety.
The class-rooms are large and well-lighted, as are also the rooms
used by the literary, debating and other societies. The orna-
mental work in these rooms, as exhibited more especially in the
painting and frescoing, renders them particularly attractive. There
are several societies in the University, and they afford opportun-
ity for ample practice in debate, essay-writing, declamation, dra-
matic personations, etc. All who desire to join them may do so.
Their meetings and exercises are not only interesting and instruc-
tive, but also a source of salutary diversion. The societies de-
voted more particularly to the cultivation of music and the drama
have always been very popular, and many of their members fre-
quently reach a higher degree of skill than mere amateurs are
expected to attain. This is due to the fact that they are aided
and stimulated by the sedulous co-operation and encouragement
of professors specially qualified to impart instruction in music and
the drama. Then, too, there are societies particularly calculated
to promote the interests of religion and lead to a well-founded
knowledge of Christian doctrine. By means of essays, debates,
and the discussion of philosophical subjects, great readiness in
argumentation, as well as felicity of expression, is attained. Boat
clubs, base-ball clubs, etc., as well as the bars, swings, turning-
poles and other accessories of the gymnasia, offer all requisite
inducements to engage in salutary athletic exercises. The stu-
dents of all the departments are under the supervision of their
respective prefects or professors ; and, while they enjoy all the
freedom compatible with the requirements of good order, they
are firmly held to an observance of the courtesies and obligations
recognized by gentlemen in their intercourse with one another.
But, then, there is very little occasion for the exercise of rigor in
that particular; for, in nearly all instances, the students of Notre
Dame come from homes in which they have been brought up
under the salutary influence of careful and proper training. By
precept and example they have been trained to recognize and
observe the courtesies characteristic of gentlemen. And to con-
firm them as such is an important aim of the discipline in force
at Notre Dame.
EXPENSES.
FATABLE ITT ADDVBA.TTOIHL
Matriculation Fee,...............................$5	00
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION,
(Latin, Greek, and Modern Languages in-
cluded,) Washing and Mending of Linens,
per Session,...........................-	-150 00
The first session begins on the first Tuesday of Septem-
ber ; the second on the first of February.
The College does not bind itself to refund any money unless
students have been dismissed^ or withdrawn at the request of the
College authorities.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $io ; Scientific Course,
$io; Commercial Course, $5.
Students who spend the Summer Vacation at the Uni=
versity are charged? extra? $40.
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned,
per session :
Instrumental Music—Lessons	Use of Library, -	-	- $ 1 00
on Piano, and Use of Instru-	Drawing, -	-	- Telegraphy, - -	-	-	- 10 00
ment, ...	-	$22 50 Lessons on Violin, -	-	- 12 50 ( General Prin-		- - 10 00
	Phonography, -	- Use of Philosophical and	-	- 10 00 Chem-
Vocal Lessons 4 ciples, -	- 5 co	ical Apparatus, -	-	- 5 °o
( Vocal Culture, 15 00 Elocution—Special Course, -	5 00	Oil Painting, -	-	-	- 15 OO
Qualitative Chemical Analysis taken at the expense of the
student.
PROGRAMME OF STUDIES.
Preparatory Department.
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the Classical or
Scientific Course. Students who have completed them receive a diploma
admitting them to membership in the Freshman Class. Those entering the
Course are expected to be able to read and write, besides having an ele-
mentary knowledge of Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—As far as the end of Regular Conjugations.
,	—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.
—Harkness.
3	Historia Sacra.
II.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
z Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of • the World—Special Geog-
raphy of the United States, including Outlines of Physical
Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Hassard.
5	Penmanship.
HI.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Progressive Practical
Arithmetic.—Robinson.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	19
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1 Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology com-
pleted.—Harkness.
a Exercises—First Part, Introduction to- Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
3 Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II.—ENGLISH.
1
i Grammar—Etymology Completed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa,
including outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.
—Hassard.
5	Penmanship.
HI.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive), to Compound Numbers
(exclusive), Progressive Practical Arithmetic.—Robinson.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harkness.
2	, Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to
Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3	Roman History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
20	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II	.—GREEK.
i Grammar—From beginning to the Verb.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek Ollendorf.—Kendrick.
III	.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
Letter Writing.
3 Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Higher
Arithmetic.—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Second Part completed—Introduction to Latin Com-
position.—Harkness.
3	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
i	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.— Goodwin.
2	, Exercises—From 26th to 6ist Lesson.— Greek Ollendorf.
—Kendrick.
3	Jacobs’ Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.— Casserly.
4	Gospel of St.John—Selections by the Teacher.
HI—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.
—Harvey.
2	, Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic (completed) — From Percentage to Involution —
Higher Arithmetic.—Robinson.
2	Algebra (begun)—to Simple Equations—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	21
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Ambrose—Extracts.
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
IL—GREEK.
1	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.—^ Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-Five Exercises, First Greek Book.
—Spencer's Arnold-.
3	Anabasis—First Book.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	General Study of Syntax.—Harvey and Brown.
2	Exercises—Composition.
3	Ancient History—To the Partition of Alexander’s Empire.
—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Involution to the End.—Robinson.
2	Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive),
University Algebra.—Robinson.
22	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.
2	Cassar—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Third Part. — Introduction to Latin Composition
Completed.—Plarkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
IL—GREEK.
i	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.
—Spencer* s Arnold.
3	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
'	III.—ENGLISH.
1 Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.
—Harvey and Brown.
2 Ancient History—From the Partition of Alexander’s Empire to
the End.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Algebra—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Al-
gebra.—Robinson.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a
strict examination in all the Studies of the three Preparatory
Tears, unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty
and pronozcnced satisfactory.
COLLEGIATE DEPARTMENT.

i
Collegiate Department.
-----------Q---
■ .CLASSICAL COURSE.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Lactantius—De opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.	,
2	Virgil—Six Eclogues,
o	o
3	Sallust—Catiline.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.— Casserly,
5	Exercises—Prose Composition.
II.—GREEK.
r Grammar—Syntax.— Good-win.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
3	Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Narrative Writ-
ing.—Hart.
2 Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra—(completed)—From Series to the end—University
Algebra.—Robinson.
?, Geometry—Plain Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Ovid—First and Thirteenth Books of Metamorphoses.
2	Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—Rules Completed.— Casserly.
II.—GREEK.
i Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
2	St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
3	Cyropaadia—First Book.
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Composi-
tion.—Spencer's Arnold.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with Review
of Composition—Narrative and Descriptive Writing.—Hart.
2	, Modern Historv—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed)—Solid.—Loomis.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	EEneid—Virgil—Three Books.
2	Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Archias.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—From Rules to Versification.— Casserly.
II.—GREEK.
1	St. Gregory—Machabees.
2	Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
III.—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature—Essays.—Hart.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Conic Sections—Review.—Loomis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the Human
Body, and Nutrition.—Huxley and Foumans.
VI.—HISTORYZ.
1 History of England.—Burkds Lingard.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	27
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
2	Horace—Odes.
3	Cicero—De Senectute.
4	Exercises—Selected.
5	Prosody.— Casserly.
6	Verses.
II.—GREEK.
1	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucydides—First Book.
3	Exercises—Selected.
HI.—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature (continued)—Essays.—Hart.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Trigonometry—The entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Fluman Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.—Huxley
and Youmans.
VI.—HISTORY.
1 History of England.—Bzirke's Lingard.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Livy—Two Books.
2	Horace—Satires and Epistles.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
•	II.—GREEK.
1	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
3	Homer—Odyssey.	'
4	Exercises—Selected.
28
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—ENGLISH.
I Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
2 Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Logic—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Structural Botany.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2 Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.—Barker.
SECOND SESSION.
I. -LATIN.
i Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
3	Composition—Original Themes
II.—GREEK.
i	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
2	^Eschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
4	Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
HI.—ENGLISH.
i	Elocution.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Ontology and Psychology.—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Systematic Botany.— Gray.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2 Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.—Barker.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	29
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintillian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato—Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Media, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Theodicy and Ethics.— Jouin.
2 Dissertation.
IV.—HISTORY.
1 Philosophy of History.—Balmes and Schlegel.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological.—Dana.
VI.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2	Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Aristophanes—Selections.
4	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.

30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by Professor.	v
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Paleontology.—Dana.
V	.—MATHEMATICS.
i Astronomy—From the Eclipses to the End.—JLoomis.
N. B.—During the four years of this course, students have an
opportunity of attending Lectures on Historical, Literary, Philo-
sophical and Scientific subjects.
Elective Studies.
Commercial—Book-keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing (Figure, Landscape, Mechanical
and Architectural).
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying.
Dogma.
II.	SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
-----o-----
Note.— The preparatory studies are the same as for the Clas-
sical Course, except that Latin or Greek may be replaced by one
of the Modern Languages.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2	Ancient History—To Partition of Alexander’s Empire.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with the subject matter of
History.—Mitchell.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra—(Completed) From Series (inclusive) to the end.—
University Algebra.—Robinson.
2 Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
HL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy and Physiology—Structure and Mechanism
of the Human Body—Nutrition.—Mivart and Huxley.
2 Botany—Structural Botany.— Gray.
IV— LANGUAGES.
i	French, German or Latin*—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
i Linear Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of
Composition.—Essays.—Hart.
* Students preferring to tat e Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades
of the Classical Course.
32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
2	Ancient History—From the Founding of the City of Rome to
the end.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with subject matter of His-
tory .—Mitchell.
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed), Geometry of Space
(Solid and Spherical)—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy and Physiology—Nervous System and Hy-
giene.—Mivart and Huxley.
2 Botany—Systematic Botany.— Gray.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
i Architectural Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
I English Literature—Entire Subject.—Hart.
2	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
11.—MATHEMATICS.
i Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
Ill—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geometry—(Conic Sections.)—Loomis.
2 Zoology—Structural Zoology.— Orton.
IV—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V—DRAWING.
i Machine Drawing.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	33
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature—(continued).—Hart.
Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
3 Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.— Gillespie.
HL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Zoology—Systematic Zoology.— Orton.
2	. Biology.—Huxley and Martin.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V—DRAWING.
1	Free Hand Drawing.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
I General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
2	Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
—Norton.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary )—Theoretical Chemistry.—Barker.
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Proper-
ties of Minerals.— Collins.
IV—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
i Theory—Isometry.— Warren's Plane Projection.
2 Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and
Sepia.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i	General Geometry and Calculus.
2	Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
—Norton.
2 Chemistry—(Elementary)—Inorganic Chemistry.—Barker.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
'	— Collins.
IV—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
i Theory—P erspective.
2 Practice—Exercises in the use of Water Colors.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	35
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—MATHEMATICS.
1	Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
2	Geodesy—Field Practice.—Henck.
3	Mechanics—Statics.—Smith.
II—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Logic and General Metaphysics.—Hill.
Ill—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Dana.
V—LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
VI—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Aerial Perspective and Decorative Art.
2	Practice—Use of Water Colors, etc.
o
SECOND SESSION.
I—MATHEMATICS.
1	Shades and Shadows.—Davies.
2	, Geodesy.
3	Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics.—Smith.
II—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Special Metaphysics—Lectures by the Professor.
2	Ethics.—Hill.
36
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—HISTORY.
I Philosophy of History.—JBalmes and Schlegel.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i General Physics.
2 Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
I Paleontology.—Leconte.
VI.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).*
Elective Studies.
Languages.—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts.-—
Painting, Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music.—Vocal and
Instrumental. Dogma. Ecclesiastical History.
Any Student in this Course is at liberty to take any of these
Studies at any period of his Course, provided he can do so consist-
ently with his regular studies. In addition to the regular recitations
and practical illustrations in the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Lectures are given throughout the Course by the Professors.
* It must be remembered that whichever of the Four Languages, viz.:
French, German, Latin or Greek, is taken up at the beginning of the Fresh-
man Year, must be continued to the end of the Course, or till satisfactorily
known.
\1l
SPECIAL COURSES.
37
38
Special Courses.
--o-
L—LAW.
Numerous changes have been macle in this Department. Chief
among them may he mentioned the extending of the course to a
period of three years, the raising of the standard of studies to the
most improved plane, and the substitution of the Lecture system for
the compulsory use of text-books. The results meet the expecta-
tions of all concerned. It may now be confidently claimed that no
Law School in the country offers students superior facilities for ac-
quiring a thorough and practical knowledge of the Law. Young
men in this department pass through a course of study that quali-
fies them to undergo the most searching examination for admission
to the Bar in any part of the Union. No special preparation is re-
quisite for matriculating. Any student who is 17 years of age, and
has a fair English education, is eligible. Young men may enter the
department as students at any time during the year ; though, of
course, it is more desirable to do so„at the beginning of a session.
The diploma admits, without examination, to the Bar of Indiana,
subject to the Constitutional provision referred to in the following
extract from a letter recently received from the Clerk of the
Supreme Court :
“ I am directed by the Chief Justice to say that all graduates [of the Law De-
partment of the University of Notre Dame] will be admitted, without an exam-
ination, upon proper motion, at any time when the Court is in Session, subject,
of course, to the constitutional provision that applicants for admission shall be
voters in the State of Indiana.”
Methods of Instruction.
Instruction is given by means of daily Lectures, with accompany-
ing examinations, and the trial from week to week of moot-court
cases. The order of procedure in dealing with these cases corres-
ponds as closely as practicable with that followed in the trial of
actual cases in the regular law and equity courts. The Lectures
4°
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
embrace the various branches of International, Constitutional, Com-
mercial, Maritime and Criminal Law, together with Medical Juris-
prudence, Common Law and Equity Pleadings, Practice, Evidence,
etc. Each candidate for a degree is required to prepare and submit
to the Faculty a dissertation of at least 30 folio pages upon some
legal subject, the selection of which is left to himself. It should be
submitted at least four weeks before graduation, and it must be
satisfactory in substance and manner of treatment. The elementary
text-books may be read collaterally with the Lectures. However,
these Lectures are very comprehensive, aud cover all subjects likely
to arise in connection with ordinary practice, or even the most
thorough examination. They deal with all living branches of the
Law, and the student who writes full notes of them and diligently
studies the same, acquires a complete and reliable knowledge of its
elementary principles. The decisions of the courts arc invariably
based upon these principles, and it is the aim of the course of in-
struction at Notre Dame so to impress them upon the mind that
they are not likely under any circumstances to be forgotten. Their
relations to one another are pointed out, the growth of subordinate
principles from them is explained, and the construction upon them
of actual or hypothetical cases emphasizes the important office they
serve in furnishing a key to complicated questions of Law.
While the Lectures are complete enough to impart as general a
knowledge of the Law as students require for admission to the Bar
and practice in the courts, it is nevertheless deemed advisible to
urge them to pursue collaterally a course of reading. The works
here named are recognized and recommended as among the most
serviceable and popular of
Standard Law (Looks :
Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries, Walker’s American Law,
Reeve’s or Schouler’s Domestic Relations, Angell and Ames on
Corporations, Parsons on Contracts, Washburn on Real Property,
Story on Agency, Stephen’s or Gould’s Pleading, Greenleaf’s or
Wharton’s Evidence, Story on Bailments, Parsons on Bills, Daniel
on Negotiable Instruments, Parsons on Partnership, Bishop on
Marriage and Divorce, Wharton’s Criminal Law, Willard’s Equity,
LAW COURSE.
41
Story’s Equity Pleadings, Cooley on Torts, Cooley’s Constitutional
Limitations, Schouler on Personal Property, Redfield on Wills,
Wheaton’s International Law, Story’s or Wharton’s Conflict of
Laws, Benjamin on Sales, Parsons’ Maritime Law, Washburn on
Easements, Sedgwick on the Measure of Damages, Freeman on
Judgments, Freeman on Executions, Bouvier’s Law Dictionary,
Tidd’s Practice, etc.
Expenses.
All these books are available in actual practice, and consequently
students need incur no special loss in purchasing such of them as
they can find time to read. However, the matter of purchasing or
not purchasing them is, to a great extent, left optional with the
students themselves. It is not regarded as essential to read in con-
nection with the Lectures more than a few of the most elementary
works indicated in the proceeding list. The Lectures are prepared
with reference to that fact; and one of the objects in view in so
preparing them is to place at a minimum figure the expenses inci-
dent to pursuing the study of Law at Notre Dame. It does not
admit of doubt that many worthy and promising young men in
different parts of the country are deterred from gratifying a
cherished ambition to engage in the study of Law by the appre-
hension that they cannot meet the expenses. They fancy that
the single item of books demands an outlay of from $150 to
$300, or more. But that supposition is erroneous. The study
of Law can be pursued at Notre Dame without any noteworthy
expense, aside from what is voluntarily incurred. In that partic-
ular, there is probably no university in the country that surpasses
Notre Dame in the inducements offered to students. While the
incidental expense is merely nominal, the accommodations, which
include board, lodging, washing, etc., are excellent, and the course
of study covers a period of ten months in the year. In other
well-known institutions the annual duration of the professional
courses is only six months. But it is hardly necessary to indicate
more particularly in this connection the special advantages offered
to students of the Law Department here.
The Course of Studies.
The Law Course covers a period of three years. But in cases where
42	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
students are entitled to advanced standing, by reason of previous
study, or where they daily attend two Lectures, they may be grad-
uated in two years, providing they satisfactorily acquit themselves
in an approved examination. Students of the advanced class have
the opportunity of reviewing their studies by attending the exer-
cises of the lower class. The authorities have been actuated by
commendable motives in extending the Law Course to three years.
In the first place, they recognize that the standing of the profes-
sions have been lowered by a too indiscriminate admission to them
of persons of limited education, and technical training of a narrow
and circumscribed range. And to such persons, generally, a pro-
fessional life offers numerous disappointments. It frequently proves
to be a life of barren results, and that fact is usually discovered too
late to admit of being readily remedied. Having made their choice,
they find themselves, as a rule, subject to circumstances that forbid
a change of occupation. It is also recognized that, as a rule, young
men do not make amends for defects in their education after be-
coming involved in the activities of business. To guard against
such disappointments and mistakes, it is sought to make graduation
in this department a sufficient test of the education and professional
qualifications of the student to assure him that he is making a proper
choice, and to assure the profession that he may be admitted to its
ranks without detracting from its dignity or compromising its honor.
With a view, therefore, to supplying young men with a good
general education, as well as thorough professional knowledge, all
the departments and courses of the University are open to them.
Without extra expense, they may enter the classes and pursue the
studies of the Scientific and Classical couises, and be graduated in
the same if they so desire. As they find time and have inclination
they may study Mathematics, the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Literature, Ancient and Modern Languages, etc., in connection
with the Law. And thus the authorities of the University seek to
meet the most exacting expectations of its friends, and the public
generally, by assuring to students of this department, not only
qualifications of a high order in their profession, but also a sound
general education.
Such are some of the considerations that have actuated the au-
thorities to extend the Law Course to a period of three years.
CIVIL ENGINEERING.	43
Students of this course mingle with the other students of the Uni-
versity, and, without distinction, have the same advantages, privi-
leges and accommodations. They arc likewise subject to the same
rules of discipline. These rules have been adopted with reference
to the acknowledged fact that a high moral standard is an import-
ant requisite to an honorable and successful career. They are
calculated to shape action in accordance with such a standard, .and
inculcate, at the same time, a wholesome tone of social and pro-
fessional ethics.
----O---
IL-CIVIL ENGINEERING.
Candidates for admission into this Course must pass a thorough
examination in the Chemistry and Physics of the Scientific Course
and in the several branches of Pure and Mixed Mathematics, be-
sides Grammar, Rhetoric, History, Geography, and Geology. The
Course requires one yeai, as follows :
FIRST SESSION.
• L—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Shades, Shadows, etc.—Advanced Course in Perspec-
tive.
2	Practice—Topographical Drawing.
.	II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—(Begun).—Mahan.
2	Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
3	Pure Mathematics—Calculus reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
L—DRAWING.
1 Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone-
Cutting.
IL—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1 Civil Engineering—Concluded.—Mahan.
?. Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
3 Hydraulics.
III.—COMMERCIAL	COURSE.
----o---
It will be seen that the dburse requires two years’ study for
graduation; it includes arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geog-
raphy, United States History, reading, orthography, penmanship,
book-keeping, and Commercial Law,—in other words, a complete
business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, especially
the great West in which we live, this Course is the most practical,
and one of the most important that an educational institution can
afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or the means to take a
complete College Course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of
study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such studies
as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The consistent train-
ing* resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit
to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received
the most careful attention on the part of the officers and Commer-
cial Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the
graduates of this Course a more complete business training than
can be obtained in any commercial college. Believing that a busi-
ness education includes something more than a mere knowledge of
Book-keeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few
weeks, the authorities have extended this course over two years,
the shortest time in which the studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a student desire during this period
to pursue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. General History
and Linear Drawing are especially recommended to the students of
this course. Many commercial students find it also to their advan-
tage to take up the study of German or French, for which there
are the amplest facilities. A talented and studious young man
44
COMMERCIAL COURSE.	45
may thus in the course of two years find himself in possession of a
most valuable practical education, which will fit him to take his
place in the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
BOTH SESSIONS.
i Arithmetic—Same as First Year Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing,—Same as First Year Preparatory in Clas-
sical Course.
3	Geography—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate Prepara-
tory Course (Eclectic Series).
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate
Preparatory Course.—Hassard.	-
£ Reading and Orthography.
6	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SRSSIOH.
1	Arithmetic—Same as First Session of Second Year Preparatory in Clas-
sical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as First Session of Second Year Pre-
paratory in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Theory and Practice — Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.—
Notre Dame System.— Tong.
5	Penmanship.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Arithmetic—(Completed)—As in 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory.
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory in
Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping — Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc. — Notre Dame
System.—Tong.
$ Commercial Law.
6 Penmanship.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-Keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:—
Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by Double
Entry; 1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of Merchan-
dise on Private Account; 2d Series, On account of others; 3d Se-
ries, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Account; 4 th Series,
46	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Importing' and Exporting on private account, on account of others,
and account of ourselves and others in company; 5th Series, Re-
ceiving and forwarding Merchandise, the Management and Settle-
ment of Executors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling, Remitting,
Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of Exchange,
Banking — Private and Joint Stock—Steamboating, Railroading,
Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’ Accounts. Sat-
urdays are devoted to Commercial Law. Particular attention is
paid to the explanation of the Law of Negotiable Paper.
---0--
IV.-MODER^ LA^CUACES.
GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—One Hundred Exercises,
o o
2	Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND SESSION.
x Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—From the xooth to the 200th
o o
Exercise.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Second German Book.
2	First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
MODERN LANGUAGES.	47
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Second German Book.
2	First German Reader.
Exercises in Penmanship and Orthography.
THIRD YEAR.
■DIDST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—75 Exercises.
2	Leseiibungen und Erklarung ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s Lesebuch,
erster Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik—die Formenlehre.
SEC ONE SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—To the End.
2	Bone’s Lesebuch—Fortsetzung.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Formenlehre.
FOURTH YEAR.
DIDST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Sprachliche und sachliche Erklarung ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s Lese-
buch, zweiter Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik,—die Satzlehre. '
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the End.
2	Lesen, Erklaren, Declamiren aus Bone’s Lesebuch, zweiter Theil.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Satzlehre.
4	Compositions, and Introduction to German Classics.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
48	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
FRENCH.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fiva’s Elementary French Reader—Twenty Pages.
3	Orthography.
SECOND SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course — Thirty-nine Lessons — Regular
V erbs.
2	De Fiva’s Reader—To the end.
3	Orthography.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty-five Lessons, and from page 261 to page
357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet’s Literature.
3	Letter-Writing.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to end of First Part, from
page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Etymology.
2	Litterature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Sj ntax.
2	Telemaque—Foi' Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other Modern Lan-
guages—especially the Spanish, a knowledge of 'which is now becoming so usef ul
to students from the Southern and South-western States and Territories.
MISCELLANEOUS.
$
NOTRE-DAME, IND.
Miscellaneous.
-----o-----
Tost=Graduate Course.
The Students in this Course occupy themselves with Philoso-
phy, History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law,
Medicine, and Civil Engineering are optional studies of the Course.
Civil Engineering.
The Course of Civil Engineering has been established of late
years, and it affords advanced students the opportunity of fitting
themselves for the practice of this eminent profession.
.Natural and (Physical Science.
Students wishing to pursue a Scientific Course will find every
facility for doing so at Notre Dame. Fully aware of the demands
of the age, the authorities have spared neither pains nor expense to
meet all the requirements of the student of the Physical and Nat-
ural Sciences.
The (Physical Cabinet
contains an extensive collection of apparatus of the latest style and
most improved construction. Several of them were on exposition
at the Centennial, and obtained for those who exhibited them the
highest awards given for physical instruments. Among these may
be mentioned Konig’s Apparatus for analyzing sound, electrical
and optical apparatus by Edgerton, instruments for projection, etc.
Besides the apparatus designed for subjective use and for experi-
mental purposes in the class-room, there is a large number of select
instruments for lecture purposes, especially for illustrating those
interesting branches of Physics, Acoustics, Optics, Magnetism, and
Electro-Magnetism, and Statical and Dynamical Electricity. In
52
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Acoustics, the instruments for studying the origin and nature of
sound, the existence and interference of vibrations, together with
the beautiful apparatus designed by Lissajous, Konig and others
for the observation of sonorous vibrations, by the optical and stro-
boscopic method, and by means of manometric flames, are of the
most improved character. The instruments for illustrating Optics
are also most select and complete. Besides the stereopticons,
vertical lanterns, microscopes, spectroscopes, etc., for projection,
there is a large number of slides, transparencies, and preparations
for illustrating the various branches of Physical and Natural Science,
Astronomy, Architecture, Art, etc. The apparatus for the study
of spectrum analysis—including a fine Heidelberg spectroscope, a
collection of Pliicker tubes for obtaining the spectra of gases and
vapors—prisms, lenses, and other apparatus for projecting spectra
on the screen, as well as those used in studying the phenomena
of the double refraction and polarization of light, should also be
mentioned. For studying statical and dynamical electricity, mag-
netism, and electro-magnetism, there is a large number of electrical
machines, and batteries of different kinds, coils, helices, magnets,
electro-magnets, galvanometers, thermo-electric multipliers, Geisler
tubes, rotators, magno-electric and electro-magnetic machines, tel-
egraph apparatus, telephones, dynamo-electric machines and lamps
of the Vanderpoel and Maxim types, etc.
The Chemical Laboratory
is fitted up with all the appliances necessary for the successful study
of General Chemistry and Chemical Analysis. As in the Physical
Cabinet, additions are constantly being made to the Laboratory,
and it will be the object of the authorities to make it in all the de-
tails as complete and perfect as possible.
Lhe Museum of .Natural History,
embracing large and rare geological, mineralogical, zoological and
botanical collections, is as complete in all its arrangements as the
student could desire.
The Mineralogical Cabinet
contains a large collection of minerals from all parts of the world.
MISCELLANEOUS.	53
It is especially rich in specimens illustrating the crystalline structure,
modes of occurrence, etc., of the various ores and minerals, and em-
braces a large number of magnificent specimens of pellucid quartz
crystals, cairngorm stone, amethyst, agate, jasper, sardonyx, chal-
cedony, geodes of various kinds, calcite of all the principal crystal-
line forms, amazon stone, fluorspar, mica, tourmaline, beryl, den-
drite, selenite, garnet, the various ores of gold, silver, iron, copper,
lead, zinc, as well as of the other metals of rare occurrence. For
the practical study of the physical properties of minerals the stu-
dent of mineralogy will find in this collection all he could wish
for. Besides this, there is also a rich store of specimens for blow-
pipe analysis.
" The Geological Cabinet
is very complete, both in the number and character of the speci-
mens it contains. It embraces fossils of all the geological forma-
tions, both of this country and Europe. Among them are many
unusually well preserved, and of more than ordinary size. In a
word, it is furnished with all the specimens that the student needs
to make the study of Geology easy and interesting.
(Popular Lectures on the (Physical and .Natural Sciences
form one of the most interesting features in connection with the
Scientific Department. These are intended mainly for those stu-
dents who cannot or do not wish to take up the Scientific Course,
but who nevertheless desire to have a general knowledge of the
leading facts and principles of the Physical and Natural Sciences.
All these lectures, especially those on Physics and Chemistry, are
illustrated experimentally, and, to attain most effectually the object
in view, the best of apparatus and specimens, especially those de-
signed for projection, have been secured.
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of which is
so frequent and necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German Danguage—the classes of which are so numerously
54	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
attended — has been taught by five Professors during the past
scholastic year. The number of German students attending the
University is becoming greater every year. The study of French
is recommended to all students of the Collegiate Course. The
course of Spanish will receive special attention in future, and other
modern languages may be taught when required.
Telegraphy, and Typewriting.
These branches invite the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. The Telegraph Department is fully organ-
ized, and is placed under the management of a skilful electrician.
Notre Dame is in direct communication with South Bend and the
rest of the world by electric wires.
Phonography, or Short=Hand,
of which Dr. Johnson said “ its usefulness is not confined to any
particular science or profession,” and which, with a good educa-
tion, is a profession in itself, has been taught for many years at
Notre Dame. A knowledge of this useful art, besides being of in-
calculable benefit in the higher branches of education, will also be
found useful in professional life. By its aid, notes of readings and
lectures can be taken with the rapidity of thought and vocal utter-
ance. Phonography has of late come into almost general use in
the mercantile community, to expedite correspondence, etc.; a
knowledge of the art will therefore be a recommendation to its
possessor for positions of confidence and trust, and thus perhaps
become a stepping-stone to fortune.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame
in the facilities afforded to students for acquiring proficiency in
elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises are practical,
and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety. These exer-
cises are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is peculiarly adapted
NOTRE-DAME, IND.
MISCELLANEOUS.
55
for the purpose, being eligibly situated, large, and elegantly fur-
nished. The exercises constitute an important part of the studies of
young men who strive to cultivate with success literature, oratory
and the dramatic art. The approved methods of stimulating and
developing the natural elocutionary powers are called into requisi-
tion as occasions seem to warrant. And to this end the drama re-
ceives a due share of attention. From time to time an appropriate
tragedy or comedy is rendered by students, on the stage of the
new Music Hall, with all the accessories and appointments cus-
tomarily in use in connection with dramatic performances. Four ■
public exhibitions are given during the year, and public literary
exercises are held seven times in the same period. An oratorical
contest is one of the notable features marking the close of the year.
For the purpose of encouraging and stimulating students to put
forth their best efforts, premiums and gold medals are offered to
those who most distinguish themselves. When all these things are
duly considered, there need be no hesitation in repeating that “ no
educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame in the
facilities offered to students for acquiring proficiency in elocution.”
Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to prepare for the Medical profession will
find opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Stu-
dies in this department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy, and
Surgery. As a preparatory Course, that which is given here,
under L. Neyron, M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de Mddicine,
Lyons, leaves nothing to be desired.
(Drawing and (Painting.
The University, which is becoming every year more widely and
favorably^known as an art centre, enjoys ample facilities for im-
parting instruction in this branch. It possesses a large number of
models in all sorts of drawing, a fine Studio, and qualified and
zealous teachers of the art. The eminent artist Signor Luigi
Gregori, of Rome, is still in charge of this Department.
Music.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has
able Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conser-
vatory system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent
Quartette, and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are some
of the leading features of the Musical Department.
56	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and
which has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students
during the past few years, will receive even more careful attention
in future, and it is hoped that this branch will become every year
more popular.
Astronomical Observatory,
A temporary Astronomical Observatory has been erected, in
which the fine instrument presented by the Emperor Napoleon
has been placed. The studies of the class of Astronomy are thus
rendered practically interesting.
Teadin g=(R.ooms.
The lower floor of the new Music Hall is divided into large and
neatly furnished Reading Rooms for the benefit of the Senior
and Junior departments. These Reading Rooms are supplied with
books and periodicals from the library, and students have access to
them during the hours of recreation.
The Lemonnier Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now •
numbers over 17,000 volumes. A Reading-room has been opened
in connection with the Library, in which the following periodicals
are to be found on file, viz.: Atlantic Monthly, Lippincott’s Mag-
azine, Harper’s Magazine, Cornhill Magazine, Macmillan’s Mag-
azine, Geological Magazine, Blackwood’s Magazine, International
Review, North-American Review, British Review, Edinburgh Re-
view, London Review, Westminster Review, Contemporary Re-
view, Fortnightly Review, The Nineteenth Century, ^e Corres-
pondant, Le Contemporain, Revue Catholique, Athenaeum, Acad-
emy, Scientific American, Science Review, Dublin Review, Lamp,
Catholic Quarterly, Catholic World, London Month, Alt und
Neue Welt, Der Hausschatz, besides a large number of dailies and
weeklies. The members of the Library Association desire to give
their Alma Mater a collection of books which can stand compar-
ison with those possessed by any other educational establishment of
the United States ; therefore they call on the friends of the Uni-
versity to assist them by donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals
and manuscripts. All contributions should be addressed to the
Librarian of the Lemonnier Library, Notre Dame University,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Minim Department.
-----Q-----
For the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen,
there has been established a Department to which the most scrupu-
lous attention has always been paid by the College authorities : it
is known as the Minim Department, and has ever been one of the
greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as well as to all persons
visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an English education is here imparted, together with
a fundamental knowledge of Latin, French and German. Vocal
Music and Drawing form no extra charges. The pupils of this
Department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under whose
maternal and tender care they pass nearly the entire day. During
the hours of recreation, and while in the refectory and dormitory,
they are under the charge of kind and efficient Prefects.
(Discipline.
The following is the order of the day: Rising, at half-past six;
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercise in the Campus ; half-past seven, study ; half-
past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to twelve,
toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-past one, study;
half-past three, recreation and lunch; half-past six, supper and rec-
reation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that
while the Minims devote never less than six hours a day to study,
they are never more than two hours in succession in the class-room.
The recreation and exercise in the fresh air, between each two hours
of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to their
classes refreshed and readj for work.
The Minims are always under supervision—during the hours of
recreation, as well as in the class-room and study-hall. The pres-
ence, however, of the Prefects, is far from being a restraint on the
58	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
amusements of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Prefects to
insist that their young charges shall always keep within the limits
of the strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take part in all
sports, organize games, and do everything in their power to foster
a love of healthful exercise. The play-ground consists of a fine
level, four-acre field, well supplied with turning-poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary gym-
nastic apparatus. That the boys make a good use of them can best
be seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably
attracts the notice of visitors.
Connected with the play-ground is a fine brick play-hall, 160 feet
long, heated by steam. There the boys play in rainy or cold
weather. In this building is one of the finest hand-ball alleys at
Notre Dame. Adjoining the grounds is a large orchard to which
the Minims have access in proper season. They are allowed so
many privileges of a similar nature that, among the students of the
other departments, they are often pleasantly spoken of as the “ priv-
ileged class of the little college world.” They write home once a
week. Particular care is taken to foster respect and affection for
parents. Though the toilet is made regularly before meals, yet, to
secure perfect neatness, free access may be had, whenever necessary,
to the wash-room—which is supplied with cold and warm water.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the clothing,
see to all the needs and to the comfort and convenience of the Min-
ims. Baths are taken every Saturday. Underclothing is changed
regularly twice a week. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly
dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the season. As the
Sisters take entire charge of all these details, boys six years of age
are received. They are separated from the larger Minims, and
enjoy all desirable privileges.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim Department: that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to sup-
ply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Association, which
has been established with a view to give the students a start, as early
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
59
as possible, in Elocution. The Society is in charge of one of the
Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the talent of
these interesting young orators. Meetings are held once a week,
after school hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure
as well as of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only the best
behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to member-
ship. To encourage this young Literary Society a Gold Medal
is annually awarded at Commencement, for Elocution, to the
most deserving member.
General (Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much milder
than that which is suited to students more advanced in age. Re-
course is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in charge
endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing
to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose conduct and
application to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads of
Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic^ a paper pub-
lished weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name mentioned in
these rolls is found to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil,
as its non-appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, again, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of two
full years to all whose deportment has been generally satisfactory
during that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim
immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape his
conduct with a view to receiving an “ Honor.” The greatest care
is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to in-
culcate the practice of refined manners.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording ample
accommodation for over one hundred students, is devoted to their
use. It is four stories in height, ninety-five feet long, and forty -
five wide; heated by steam, lighted by gas, supplied with hot and
cold water. The ceilings in the Study Hall, Class Rooms, and
sleeping apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large
6o	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
and numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The
Study Hall commands a charming view from each of its eleven
large windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary, beautiful
pictures, choice plants and beautiful flower caskets, etc. Besides the
pleasure the Minims derive from studying in this bright, beautiful
hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by coming into contact
with such refining objects. Fronting the building is a handsome
park, which with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers,
adds not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well as to
the happiness of the Minims.
These remarks, -which have been made to satisfy parents and
others who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that while the Minims have every possible advantage to aid
them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a most
happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom as they
would under the care of their mothers.
---O---
EXPENSES.
Entrance Fee,..................................$5 00
BOARD, TUITION, etc., per Session of Five
Months,............................-	-	- I 25 00
The only extra in this Department is Instrumental Music. The
charges for this branch are the same as in the other departments.
(See page 17.)
{Pzupils 'who remain during the t'wo Sztmmer Vacation months
arc charged, extra, $40.}
Each student on entering needs 6 shirts, 4 pairs of drawers,
6 night-shirts, 12 pocket-handkerchiefs, 6 pairs of winter stock-
ings, 6 pairs of summer stockings, 6 towels, 2 hats or caps, 2 pairs
of boots or shoes, 2 suits of clothes for Winter, 2 suits for Summer,
combs, brushes, etc.; 1 overcoat.
Catalogue of Students.
From September I 883, to June 1 884.
Adams, Edward...
Akins, William T.
Aguilero, Rodrigo.
Aguilero, Manuel..
Adler, Abraham.. .
Arnold, Benjamin.
Ackerman, Hubert.
Arkins, Edward...
Amoretti, Eugene.
Ancheta, J. Arthur
Anchondo, Jesus. .
Anchondo, L........
Addington, Horace
Addington, Jarrett.
Armijo, David. .. .
Alvarez, Francisco.
Arrache, Santiago.
Arrache, Antero...
Arce, Crescentio...
Banigan, John J......
Bowers, Wm. E.........
Brosseau, George L.
Barons, Samuel T...
Burns, James..........
Boos, Jacob...........
Borgschulze, William
Brown, Charles W..
Butterfield, W. C....
Bunker, Irving L....
Baurman, Ernest....
Barron, William H. .
Berthelet, William R
Bates, Joseph.........
Buchanan, Alberto..
Becerra, Tiburtis.....
Bailey, William H ...
Barclay, David F....
Burke, Vernon H....
Burke, John Alfred..
Burke, Francis E. . ..
Barela, Pontian.......
Browne, Albert A...
Baur, Joseph..........
Brown, Fred L.........
Illinois.
Illinois.
Mexico.
Mexico.
Illinois.
Illinois.
. Indiana.
Colorado.
Wyoming.
New Mexico.
, Mexico.
. Mexico.
. Missouri.
. Missouri.
. New Mexico.
. Mexico.
. Mexico.
. Mexico.
. Mexico.
Rhode Island.
West Virginia.
Illinois.
Kansas.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Kentucky.
Minnesota.
Missouri.
Missouri.
Kentucky.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Colorado.
Texas.
Mexico.
Massachusetts.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Ohio.
New Mexico.
Texas.
. Michigan.
Wisconsin.
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Breen, James W..............................Indiana.
Benner, Edward..............................Illinois.
Benner, Florence............................Illinois.
Bailey, William W...........................Colorado.
Baca, Filadelfo.............................New Mexico.
Barnard, H. B...............................Michigan.
Bartholomew, Alfred L.......................Indiana.
Crawford, Mirt....
Crawford, Jepp....
Courtney, Joseph..
Carbajal, Pedro...
Curtis, Fred D.........
Curtis, Claire B..
Cond, Louis.......
Cussen, Bartholomew.. .
Cass, Thomas F....
Conway, James.....
Callan, Richard V.
Chaves, Jose..........
Cartier, Warren........
Cartier, George R......
Cartier, Desire........
Cummings, Michael P..
Cavaroc, Pierre C......
Crotty, Fred...........
Crilly, George.........
Cusack, John P.........
Cusack, Joseph E.......
Crawford, Samuel.......
Chelini, Eugene.......
Cleary, Jacob Thompson
Costigan, George P....
CostLan, Edward.......
Cole, William.........
Creel, Juan...........
Clarke, Mathew J......
Celia, Louis A........
Callaghan, Thomas E...
Christian, Alfred B...
Cassily, Thomas.......
Coghlin, Amedeus......
Coghlin, Wm. Louis....
Carroll, Thomas.......
Carroll, Charles......
Carroll, John.........
Campbell, William.....
Coll, Arthur P........
Chirhart, Alfred......
Chirhart, Edward......
Connell, M. J.........
Combe, Fred J.........
Combe, Charles B......
Combe, Frank B........
Cavanaugh, William...
Cavanaugh, Dominick..
Texas.
Texas.
Maryland.
Mexico.
Michigan.
Michigan,
o
Michigan.
Ohio.
Kansas.
Illinois.
New York.
New Mexico.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indian Ty.
Indian Ty.
Missouri.
District of Columbia.
Kentucky.
Colorado.
Colorado.
Colorado.
Mexico.
, Illinois.
. Illinois.
Ohio.
Nebraska.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Indiana.
. Dakota.
, Dakota.
Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
. Indiana.
Indiana.
Illinois
. Texas.
, Texas.
Texas.
. Indiana.
. Indiana.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
63
Wyoming.
Wyoming.
District of Columbia.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Mexico.
Coad, John F............................
Coad, Mark...............................
Coleman, Michael..........................
Cr oxton, P. A..........................
Comings, Philip H........................
Cohen, H. M..............................
Calvin, David M..........................
Casavantes, Gabriel......................
Delaplaine, Channing.
Dwenger, Joseph H..,
Delgado, Francisco R
Dirksmeyer, Henry...
De Groot, John.......
Devereux, John Ryan.
Devereux, John P....
Devereux, Ashton....
Dorenburg, John M..
Divine, Richard L ....
Devine, James........
Devine, William......
Devine, Arthur.......
De Haven, George W..
De Wolf, George......
Donohue John.........
Drown, Clarence......
Deaderich, Thomas..
Dexter, Frank.........
Dungan, L. Paul....
Dickerson, Sidney....
Dolan, Michael A....
Delany, John...........
Dodds, Charles R....
Dennis, Arthur J....
Dennis, Walter E....
Dennis, Charles W...
Duffin, Charles......
Danielson, Fred......
Dunn, John E.........
Daily, Joseph S......
Diaz, Alberto........
Diaz, Florentino.....
Doss, John E.........
Doss, Ernest.........
Doss, Samuel.........
Dunford, Frank M ...
.. Ohio.
.. Indiana.
, .Mexico.
.. Illinois.
. . Indiana.
.. New York.
. .New York.
.. New York.
. .Illinois.
.. Illinois.
.. Illinois.
.. Illinois.
. . Illinois.
.. Illinois.
.. Iowa.
.. Indiana.
.. Indiana.
. .Tennessee.
.. Missouri.
.. Ohio.
.. Colorado.
.. Iowa. •
.. Pennsylvania.
.. Ohio.
. .New York.
. .New York.
. .New York.
. .West Virginia.
. .Wyoming.
. Iowa.
.. Illinois.
.. Mexico.
.. Mexico.
.. Colorado.
.. Colorado.
. . Colorado.
.. Illinois.
Eisenhauer, Andrew J.....................Indiana.
Eisenhauer, John.........................Indiana.
Ewing, Neal H............................Ohio.
Ewing, E. Sorin..........................Ohio.
Ernest, John............................Colorado.
Fitzgerald, John G............................Iowa.
Fitzgerald, James J..........................Iowa.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Fogarty, William...........................Illinois.
Foster, Charles............................Indiana.
Fehr, Frank................................K entucky.
Fierro, Matias.............................Mexico.
Fendrich, John H...........................Indiana.
Farrell, Joseph E..........................Ohio.
Fenlon, Thomas P...........................Kansas.
Fenlon, Edward J...........................Kansas.
Fitzgerald, Harry J........................Iowa.
Frain, Joseph..............................Indiana.
Frain, John................................Indiana.
Frain, Peter...............................Indiana.
Foote, Henry...............................Iowa.
Fishel, Fred...............................Tennessee.
Fisher, H arley............................Michigan.
Foster, John...............................Indiana.
Fulwiler, William..........................Illinois.
Feltz, Leander A...........................Ohio.
Fox, John W................................Iowa.
Gibert, Leon G......
Gimbel, Edward........
Galt, Guy Mason.......
Grothaus, J. F........
Gerlach, Edward B ...
Gonser, Daniel................
Garrity, Joseph..............
Garrity, Frank................
Goulding, P. J........
Gray, Wm. W...........
Grandrup, Oscar Thor.
Galarneau, Peter......
Geiser, James P.......
Gutierrez, Thomas.. .
Grunsfeld, James.....
Grunsfeld, Ivan.......
Gonzalez, Abraham.. ,
Gonzales, Guadalupe..
Guthrie, John W.......
Garrett, C. A..................
Gallagher, Frank W.
Gallagher, John J......
Godfrey, Frank.........
Gooley, Michael........
Grimes, Albert.........,
Grimes, William........
Gibson, G. Harry.......
Gibson, Percy...........
Louisiana.
. Illinois.
Illinois.
Missouri.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Massachusetts.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Ohio.
. Pennsylvania.
New Mexico.
.New Mexico.
New Mexico.
Mexico.
Mexico.
Iowa.
. Iowa.
, Massachusetts.
Pennsylvania.
. Indiana.
. Indiana.
, Colorado.
. Colorado.
. Illinois.
. Illinois.
H agenbarth, Frank.........................Idaho.
Hyde, J. Andrew............................New York.
Halligan, John.............................Missouri.
Howard, Patrick............................Illinois.
Howard, Edward J...........................Indiana.
Howard, Edward A...........................Indiana.

CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
65
Howard, Allen...........................
Hemisbaugh, William.....................
Henry, John W...........................
Henry, John.............................
Henry, William..........................
Henry, Bernard..........................
Henderson, George W.....................
Hafner, John............................
Huestis, Guy............................
Hofstetter, William.....................
Holman, Samuel..........................
Holbrook, Everett M.....................
Hopkins, Lisle..........................
Hopkins, Joseph H.......................
Harris, Charles R.......................
Harris, Charles S.......................
Hellebush, Joseph.......................
Hausburg, Charles.......................
Hagen, Paul.............................
Handy, F. L.............................
Heffernan, John M ......................
Heffernan, James L......................
Houck, George A.........................
Hagerty, John E.........................
Hetz, Jacob.............................
Hetz, William...........................
Hillard, Thomas.........................
Hamlyn, John............................
Hotaling, Edwin T.......................
Illinois.
Indiana.
Texas.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Tennessee.
Tennessee.
I owa.
Nebraska.
Missouri.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Iowa.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Kentucky.
Kentucky.
Oregon.
Missouri.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Montana.
New York.
Inderrieden, C. V........................Illinois.
Inderrieden, Robert.......................Illinois.
Johnston, William H..........................Ohio.
Johnson, Paul................................Illinois.
Johnson, John C..............................Indiana.
Jensch, Fred.................................Illinois.
Jones, Aaron.................................Indiana.
Jones, Charles E.............................Illinois.
Johns, Cash..................................Michigan.
Judie, Charles E.............................Indiana.
Jackson, A. T................................Ohio.
Klieber, John..........
Kerndt, Charles........
Kraus, John............
Keefe, Philo...........
Kimmel, Grant..........
Kelly, John T..........
Kelly, Edwin...........
Kelly, Joseph Aloysius
Kelly, Michael.........
Kelly, John............
King, Thomas R.........
Kolars, Charles C....
Texas.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
District of Columbia.
Illinois.
Wyoming.
Iowa.
Minnesota.
66	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kauffmann, C. J.........................Ohio.
Kavanaugh, Louis.... ...................Iowa.
Keegan, Joseph..........................Kentucky.
Keegan, William......................  Kentucky.
Keeler, Charles T.......................Illinois.
Colorado.
Arkansas.
Mexico.
Illinois.
Kansas.
Kentucky.
New Mexico.
Illinois.
Colorado.
Colorado.
Colorado.
Texas.
New Mexico.
New Mexico.
New Mexico.
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Kansas.
Mexico.
Lare, George............................
Letcher, Julius C..............
Loya, Augustine................
Leffingwell, R.................
Lasley, William.........................
Landenwich, George........
Lucas, Frank............................
Loescher, Max...........................
Lindsey, Chalmers.......................
Lindsey, Benjamin B.....................
LaTourette, Glennie......
Loewenstein, Moritz......
Lewis, Richard...........
Lewis, George............
Lewis, Jessie............
Larkin, John C...........
Long, D. Frank...........
Leony, Nicholas.....................
Lake, Philip G.....................
Legnard, William...................
Luther, Minot L....................
Lister, Harry E.........................
Lane, Frank.............................
Lechuga, Jose...........................
Mulkern, Michael B.............
Meyer, George..................
Meyer, Albert..................
Moross, George A...............
Menig, George..................
Monschein, John................?...............
Morgan, Henry..................
Morrisson, Richard G...........
Mullen, Fred....................
Mullen, Arthur B........................
Mullane, Philip.........................
Mahon, William..........................
Mahon, William P........................
Miller, Andrew..........................
Mathers, Lafayette......................
Mason, Eliot B..........................
Mason, Carlisle.........................
Meehan, August F........................
Marques, Raymond........................
Moye, Gustavo...........................
Moye, Augustine.........................
Muhler, B. C............................
Mug, William........................................................
Murphy, William.........................
Murphy, J. M............................
Iowa.
Missouri.
Illinois.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Texas.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Mississippi.
Wisconsin.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
Mexico.
Mexico.
Mexico.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Iowa.
District of Columbia.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	67
Murphy, Frank............................Colorado.
Murdock, Samuel..........................Indiana.
Murdock, Charles.........................Indiana.
Mittendorf, John.........................Ohio.
Marcotte, Felix..........................Indiana.
Metz, Charles............................Illinois.
Manning, Alexander.......................Kentucky.
Manzanares, Francisco....................New Mexico.
Major, Frank.............................Indiana.
Mahoney, T. J............................Iowa.
Madden, John C...........................Illinois.
Mueller, August..........................Montana.
Morris, Thomas R.........................Missouri.
Martinez, Louis..........................Mexico.
Muessel, Adolph..........................Indiana.
Mathews, Arthur..........................Indiana.
McCarthy, Wm. H..........................Arkansas.
McCarthy, Joseph H.......................Minnesota.
McErlain, George.........................Indiana.
McGill, Thomas...........................Illinois.
McGill, William..........................Illinois.
McKinnery, Thomas........................Illinois.
McCabe, John J...........................Illinois.
McCabe, John.............................Indiana.
McCabe, Edward...........................Indiana.
McGuire, William.........................Illinois.
McGuire, Thomas..........................Iowa.
McGordon, James..........................Michigan.
McGordon, Charles........................Michigan.
McVeigh, James A.........................Kentucky.
McPhee, William..........................Colorado.
McGrath, John............................Illinois.
McGrath, Edward..........................Illinois.
McDonnell, John..........................Iowa.
McIntyre, John A.........................Wisconsin.
McMurray, A..............................Illinois.
McCawley, Daniel L.......................Illinois.
McNamara, James..........................Indiana.
McNamara, Thomas.........................Indiana.
McNally, Charles.........................Indiana.
McLoughlin, Peter........................Ohio.
McGinn, J ames...........................Iowa.
McCullough, Wm...........................Iowa.
McCourt, William.........................Colorado.
McCourt, Marks...........................Colorado.
McNulty, Anthony.........................Illinois.
Noonan, Frank............................Colorado.
Nusbaum, Louis...........................Colorado.
Neeson, John.............................Pennsylvania.
Nester, John.............................Michigan.
Nester, Frank............................Michigan.
Nester, Arthur...........................Michigan.
Nadeau, Joseph...........................Kansas.
Neuman, Robert...........................Michigan.
Nathan, Robert...........................Illinois.

68	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Norfleet, Wm.....................................  .North	Carolina.
Norfolk, Thomas.................*................Illinois.
O’Brien, Edward.........................Ohio.
O’Brien, George N.......................Ohio.
O’Brien, Eugene N.......................Ohio.
O’Brien, Samuel.........................Indiana.
O’Connell, William......................Indiana.
O’Donnell, Joseph P.....................Michigan.
O’Donnell, James V......................Indiana.
Ott, Edward J...........................Ohio.
O’Connor, John..........................Colorado.
O’Rourke, Frank T.......................Michigan.
O’Kane, George..........................Ohio.
O’Kane, Mortimer........................Ohio.
O’Kane, Byron...........................Ohio.
Otis, Elmer A...........................U. S. Army.
Otis, Francis I.........................U. S. Army.
Orchard, William C......................Tennessee.
O’Dea, Michael..........................Ohio.
Prudhomme, P. P............................Louisiana.
Prudhomme, J. L............................Louisiana.
Prudhomme, E. C............................Louisiana.
Plischke, Adolph...........................Illinois.
Paschel, Charles...........................Iowa.
Paschel, Henry.............................Iowa.
Pour, Louis................................Illinois.
Porter, Charles F..........................Wisconsin.
Porter, Edward.............................Wisconsin.
Porter, Harry..............................Wisconsin.
Prindiville, William.......................Montana.
Prindiville, David........■................Montana.
Pohl, Edward...............................Tennessee.
Papin, Rene V..............................Missouri.
Papin, Vion................................Missouri.
Paden, Joseph B............................Michigan.
Perkins, Horace............................Michigan.
Parres, Alberto............................Mexico.
Partillo, Josd.............................Mexico.
Perley, Kirk...............................Arkansas.
Quinlan, Cecil.............................Illinois.
Quinlan, John J............................Montana.
Quiggle, Wassie............................Colorado.
Quinn, Frank A.......................... Illinois.
Quill, Dennis..............................Illinois.
Quill, Daniel..............................Illinois.
Ruderhauser, Charles......................Ohio.
Rogers, Francis Jno.......................Iowa.
Rogers, John M............................Illinois.
Regan, Charles............................Texas.
Robb, Charles.............................Indiana.
Rudge, J. Edgar...........................Ohio.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	69
Rebori, Vincent............................Illinois.
Rothschild, Benjamin.......................Illinois.
Ryan, Thomas C.............................Kansas.
Ryan, Ethan................................Kansas.
Ryan, Thos. Fred...........................Kansas.
Rhodus, James..............................Colorado.
Riley, Joseph..............................Colorado.
Reynolds, Charles..........................New Mexico.
Reach, J. D................................Kansas.
Ruppe, John................................Michigan.
Ramsay, Wm. E..............................Dakota.
Rui, Guillermo.............................Mexico.
Ruffing, Charles	Ed......................Ohio.
Sedberry, Henry	H......................Texas.
Schmitz, Henry........,....................Illinois.
Stover, Frank..............................Indiana.
Stumer, Louis..............................Illinois.
Sheuerman, Leopold.........................Iowa.
Sheuerman, Manasse.........................Iowa.
Spencer, Charles H.........................Illinois.
Spencer, Otis B............................Colorado.
Solon, James...............................Illinois.
Schott, William............................Indiana.
Stull, Charles.............................. Indiana.
Schmauss, Edward...........................Illinois.
Shea, John.................................Wisconsin.
Shea, Joseph...............................Wisconsin.
Shoeneman, Simon...........................Illinois.
Studebaker, J. M. Jr.......................Indiana.
Stange, W. J...............................Illinois.
Schaefer, George...........................Illinois.
Spangler, John.............................Indiana.
Steis, Henry A.............................Indiana.
Steward, Fred..............................Tennessee.
Smith, Charles T...........................Indiana.
S mith, E dward............................O hio.
Smith, James J.............................Ohio.
Smith, Harry...............................Colorado.
Seegers, George............................Illinois.
Scholfield, Benjamin.......................Illinois.
Sykes, Macrae..............................Indian Ty.
Steele, Thomas E...........................Ohio.
Steele, Charles F..........................Ohio.
Shields, John F............................New Jersey.
Shields, James F...........................Michigan.
Scherrer, Charles..........................Colorado.
Scherrer, Leo..............................Colorado.
Scherrer, George...........................Colorado.
Sokup, Joseph..............................Illinois.
Saviers, C. D..............................Ohio.
Slusser, Harry.............................Illinois.
Saunders, Lynn.............................Illinois.
Salmon, Frank..............................Illinois.
Stett. Joseph..............................Indiana.
yo	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Stubbs, Charles J........................Texas.
Sanchez, Alexander.......................Mexico.
Snoke, A. C..............................Indiana.
Slattery, Wm. Joseph.....................Michigan.
• Strauss, Samuel........................Iowa.
Sumner, Edward C.........................Illinois.
Sumner, Aaron T..........................Illinois.
Servis, Philip...........................Missouri.
Snouffer, A. J. Jr.......................Iowa.
Sagredo, Antonio.........................Mexico.
Tomlinson, William.......................Indiana.
Tomlinson, Charles.......................Indiana.
Talbot, John Joseph......................Indiana.
Taylor, Thomas...........................Illinois.
Tarrant, George W........................Wisconsin.
Tinley, Charles A........................Kentucky.
Terrazas, Alberto........................Mexico
Turnock, Harry...........................Indiana.
Taylor, Daniel G.........................Missouri.
Thomas, Edwin............................Illinois.
Teasdale, John F.........................Florida.
Trepanier, Ernest........................Iowa.
Tewksbury, D avid........................Utah.
Thurston, Frank..........................Iowa.
Uranga, Jesus............................Mexico.
Uranga, Fidel............................Mexico.
Uranga, Manuel...........................Mexico.
Uranga, Jose Maria.......................Mexico.
Violette, John W.........................Indiana.
Veale, Walter............................Kansas.
Warner, James H..........................Tennessee.
Warner, Anthony..........................Tennessee.
Warner, Joseph E.........................Tennessee.
Warner, Charles S........................Illinois.
Willson, John............................Iowa.
Welch, William A.........................Iowa.
Welch, Albert E..........................Iowa.
Wabraushek, William......................Michigan.
Whalan, Wm...............................Illinois.
Wile, Eugene I...........................Indiana.
Wagoner, John C..........................Iowa.
Wagoner, Philip..........................Iowa.
Wagoner, William.........................Iowa.
Waggoner, Fred G.........................Illinois.
Warren, Philip...........................Illinois.
Waixel, Solomon..........................Illinois.
Webn-, Frank.............................Indiana.
Weiler, Joseph...........................Kentucky.
Whitman, Harry...........................Michigan.
Whitman, Charles.........................Michigan.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	71
West, Cabel F............................Kentucky.
Wright, Willard..........................Wy oming.
Wright, John.............................Wy oming.
Wright, James E..........................Kansas.
Wright, Nelson...........................Kansas.
Wall, G. A...............................Dakota.
Williamson, Theodore.....................Missouri.
Wheatly, Frank...........................Kentucky.
Weston, Frank B..........................Missouri.
Wilkes, G. H.............................Kansas.
Wendell, Alfred J........................Illinois.
Young, Charles...........................Indiana.
Young, Louis.............................Indiana.
Yrisarri, Paul...........................New Mexico.
Zaehnle, Joseph..........................Indiana.

Very Rev. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C., Hon. President
Rev. DENNIS A. CLARKE, ’70, President.
Rev. J. DINNEN, ’65, ist Vice-President.
JOHN G. EWING, ’77, 2D Vice-President.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, ’62, Secretary.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, ’62, Treasurer.
WILLIAM HOYNES, ’69, Orator.
GEORGE F. SUGG, ’81, Alternate Orator.
EUGENE F. ARNOLD, ’83, Alternate Poet.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, ’72, Historian.
&
I
CoHege Societies.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
RELIGIOUS.
Arcliconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the
Senior Department, has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members. It was established
in 1845.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C , Director.
C. A. Tinley, President. ,
E. A. Otis, Vice President.
H. P. Porter, Rec. Secretary.
J. C. Larkin, Cor. Secretary.
N. Ewing, Treasurer.
C. Murdoch, 1st Censor.
H. Steis, 2d Censor.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
James Solon, President.
Elmer A. Otis, Vice-President.
Neal H. Ewing, Rec. Secretary
Thomas McKinnery, Cor. Secretary.
Jos. E. Farrell, Treasurer.
C. Murdoch, 1st Censor.
H. Steis, 2d Censor.
LITERARY.
St. Aloysius Pliilodemic Society.
The object of this Society, oiganized in 1851 (originally under
the name of the St. Aloysius Literary and Historical Society), is
the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate
knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and debating
Society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in
writing, and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
Sessions.
W. H. Johnston, Cor. Secretary.
H. C. Steis, Treasurer.
James Conway, 1st Censor.
Michael Dolan, 2d Censor.
Both
Rev. T. E. Walsh C. S. C., Director.
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, President.
E. A. Otis, Vice-President.
T. J. McKinnery, Rec. Secretary.
74	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultivation
of Oratory, Elocution, and the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A, M., President.
Prof. F. B. Devoto, A. M., Dramatic
Critic.
Jas. Solon, ist Vice-President.
E. A. Otis, 2d Vice-President.
C. A. Tinley, Treasurer.
W. H. Bailey, Rec. Secretary.
J. A. McIntyre, Cor. Secretary.
T. E. Steele, Historian.
W. W. Gray, Librarian.
N. Ewing, Prompter.
F. W. Gallagher, ist Censor.
S. Dickerson, 2d Censor.
E. J. Fenlon, Marshal.
J. C. Larkin, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
Professors F. B. Devoto, A. M., and
J. Kelly, A. B., Dramatic Critics.
E. A. Otis, ist Vice-President.
J. Solon, 2d Vice-President.
C.	A. Tinley, Treasurer.
W. ri. Bailey, Rec. Secretary.
D.	C. Saviers, Cor. Secretary.
W. H..Johnston, Historian.
J. Banigan, Librarian.
A. A. Browne, Prompter.
O. B. Spencer, ist Censor.
T. McKinnery, 2d Censor.
W. E. Ramsay, Marshal.
S. Dickerson, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Executive Committee: C. C. Kolars, T. E. Steele, J. A. McIntyre, W. W. Gray,
F. Gallagher, N. H. Ewing.
Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society.
The Columbian Society was founded March 25th, 1873, for the
benefit of the Commercial Students. Its object is the cultivation of
Elocution and Oratory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., ) -r.	,
Bro. Paul, C. S. C, J Promoters.
L. Mathers, ist Vice President.
C. Kauffman, 2d Vice-President.
J. Eisenhaur, Treasurer.
W. Orchard, Rec. Secretary.
J. Klieber, Cor. Secretary.
L. Gibert, Historian.
F. Fischel, Librarian.
A. Jones, ist Censor.
D.	Reach, 2d Censor.
P. E. Warren, Sergeant-at-Arms.
E.	Smith, Marshal.
J. McNamara, )
H. McMurray, J Pr0Perty Managers.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. Edwards, Hon. President.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., )
Bro. Paul, C. S. C.,	$ nomoteis.
L. Mathers, ist Vice-President.
J. Klieber, 2d Vice President.
D.	Reach, Treasurer.
L. Gibert, Rec. Secretary.
W. Orchard, Cor. Secretary.
T. Callaghan, Historian.
F. Combe, Librarian.
A. Jones, ist Censor.
E.	Smith, 2d Censor.
W. Mahon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
P. Galarneau, Marshal.
j/Rogers,ProPerty Managers.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas.
This Association was organized Nov. 4, 1882, for the purpose
of stimulating students to devote special attention to philosophical
studies. Monthly meetings are held, at which such philosophical
subjects as are most closely connected with the leading questions,
of the day are discussed. The disputations are conducted strictly
according to the Scholastic method.
OFFICERS.
Verv Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.,
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.,
First Session.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Moderator.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant
Moderator.
T. E. Steele, President.
W. H. Bailey, xst Vice-President.
F. W. Gallagher, 2d Vice-President.
J. A. McIntyre. Rec. Sec.
W. W. Gray, Cor. Sec.
N. H. Ewing, Treasurer.
E. A. Otis, 1st Censor.
Jas. Solon, 2d Censor.
Honorary Directors.
Second Session.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Moderator.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant
Moderator.
Rev. J. A. O’Connell C. S. C., Pro-
moter.
T. E. Steele, President.
W. H. Bailey, 1 st Vice-President.
E. A. Otis, 2d Vice-President.
J. A. McIntyre, Treasurer.
Jas. Solon, Rec. Sec.
W. H. Johnston, Cor. Secretary.
T. J. McKinnery, 1st Censor.
G. II. Smith, 2d Censor.
T. J. Mahoney, 1st Usher.
S. J. Dickerson, 2d Usher.
Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union.
This Association is affiliated to the State and National Unions.
Since its establishment it has received the warmest encouragement
from the officers and faculty of the institution, whose constant
effort has been to increase the number of its members.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Senior Branch.
Prof. J- A. Lyons, President.
James Solon, 1st Vice-President.
Michael Dolan, 2d Vice-President.
T. J. McKinnery, Rec. Secretary.
W. H. McCarthy, Cor. Secretary.
J. E. Farrell, Treasurer.
Junior Branch.
Rev. M. Regan, C. S. C., President.
Charles F. Porter, 1st Vice-President.
Frank Dexter, 2d Vice-President.
Jno. McDonnell, Rec. Secretary.
Jno. E. Hagerty, Cor. Secretary.
Jno. Halligan, Treasurer.
125 Members.

J unior Department.
RELIGIOUS.
I
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
'This Confraternity is composed of the students of the Junior
Department. It has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spiritual
Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
D. G. Taylor, ist Vice-President.
J. H. Fendrich, 2d Vice-President.
Wm. T. Mug, Rec. Sec.
Henry G. Foote, Cor. Sec.
John Halligan. Treasurer.
F. Hagenbarth, ist Censor.
M. B. Mulkern, 2d Censor.
E. Gerlach, Standard Bearer.
Wm. J. Schott, Organist.
Second Session.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spiritual
Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
Wm. T. Mug, ist Vice-President.
Charles F. Porter, 2d Vice-President.
Frank H. Dexter, Rec. Sec.
John H. Fendrich, Cor. Sec.
John Halligan, Treasurer.
John E. McDonnell, ist Censor.
John Hagerty, 2d Censor.
J. Monschein, Standard Bearer.
Wm. J. Schott, Organist. ,
LITERARY.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the
same time a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its
exercises include public reading, declamations, essays, debates,
dramatic exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—
the elite of the Junior Department. Many of the plays acted upon
the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers
of its members, are written especially for them.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Perpetual Honorary Director.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C. Director.
Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant Rev. J. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.	Director.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
77
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
Prof. A. J. Stace, C. E., A. M.,
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
Prof. W. Hovne, A. M.,
Daniel G. Taylor, ist Vice-President.
Wm. P. Mahon, 2d Vice-President.
Jno. H. Fendrich, Rec. Secretary.
Wm. T. Mug, Treasurer.
Chas. F. Porter, Historian.
Jos. S. Courtney, Cor. Secretary.
E. Gerlach, Librarian.
F. Hagenbarth, 1st Censor.
F. H. Dexter, 2d Censor.
Geo. Schaefer, 1st Monitor.
W. J. Schott, 2d Monitor.
J. E. McDonnell, Sergeant-at-Arms.
H. G. Foote, Marshal.
J. Smith, 1 st Costumer.
J. Devine, 2d Costumer.
W. D. Henry, Prompter.
General Critics.
Daniel G. Taylor, 1st Vice-President,
Wm. T. Mug, 2d Vice-President.
Jno. H. Fendrich, Rec. Secretary.
Chas. F. Porter, Treasurer.
F. H. Dexter, Plistorian.
II. G. Foote, Cor. Secretary.
E.	B. Gerlach, Librarian.
J. E. McDonnell, 1st Censor.
F.	Hagenbarth, 2d Censor.
G.	Schaefer, 1st Monitor.
M. B. Mulkern, 2d Monitor.
Wm. J. Schott, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Thomas Cassily, Marshal.
C. Stubbs, 1st Costumer.
J. Devine, 2d Costumer.
J. Monschein, Prompter.
1
i
i
1
St. Stanislaus Pliilopatrian Society.
This Society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English
Composition and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President. '
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
G. Seegers, 1st Vice-President.
F. Curtis, 2d Vice-President.
J. Dwenger, Treasurer.
C. Cavaroc, Rec. Secretary.
B.	Rothschild, Cor. Secretary.
C.	Muhler, Librarian.
J. R. Devereux, 1st Censor.
J. Rhodus, 2d Censor.
J. Garrity, 3d Censor.
J. McGordon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
C. Mason, Marshal.
n'm1 iS$ai *’ £ Clerks of Court.
C. Harris, $
W. Wright, 1 st Property Manager.
J. Williamson, 2d Property Manager.
A. Adler, )	,
J. Nested J Prompters.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
F. Curtis, 1st Vice-President.
C. Mason, 2d Vice-President.
P. Yrissari, ) m
rm	1 Treasurers.
T. Cleary, $
J. E. McGordon, Rec. Secretary.
C. Cavaroc, Cor. Secretary.
G. Crawford, Librarian.
F. Rhodus, xst Censor.
J. Nester, 2d Censor.
L. Sheuerman, 3d Censor.
J. Fitzgerald, Sergeant-at-Arms.
S. Holman, Marshal.
J. R. Devereux, Clerk of Court.
J. Henry, 1st Property Manager.
W. Wright, 2d Property Manager.
A. Adler, ) „	. „
T	Prompters.
J. Garrity, )	1
Minim Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the Christian world to contribute their share
towards the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of
heathenism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggre-
gate is considerable, while thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Sup. Gen., C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., President.
B. B. Lindsey, Vice-President.
G. Meehan, Secretary.
R. Papin, Treasurer.
J. 2k. Wright, Censor.
M. O’Kane, Librarian.
W. A. Welch, )
W. McPhee, (- Standard Bearers.
Leo Scherrer, )
F. I. Otis, )	.,
A. McVeigh, Momtors-
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary
This Society was founded Sept. 29, 1874, by Very Rev. Edw.
Sorin, Superior General C. S. C. It is composed of the pupils
of the Minim Department. It has for its object the practice of
devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety
among its members, and to provide the Church with the servers
required at Mass, Vespers, and the other Church offices. In 1875,
Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many special
Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX. of glorious memory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. C., As-
sistant Director.
Mr. Regan, C. S. C., President.
Bro. F. Regis, C. S. C., Promoter.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. Alexis Granger, C. S. C., As-
sistant Director.
Mr. Regan, C. S. C., President.
Bro. F. Regis, C. S. C., Promoter.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
79
F. I. Otis, ist Vice-President.
R. V. Papin, 2d Vice-President.
B.	B. Lindsey, Secretary.
C.	A. Lindsej, Cor. Secretary.
J. Kraus, Treasurer.
J. Sokup, Librarian.
J. F. Coad, 1 st Censor.
E. Amoretti, 2d Censor.
L. Scherrer, Standard-Bearer.
C. F. West, Serg’t-at-Arms.
W. McPhee, ist Vice-President.
R. Papin, 2d Vice-President.
B.	B. Lindsey, Secretary.
C.	V. Inderrieden, Cor. Secretary.
W. Welch, Treasurer.
C. A. Lindsey, Librarian.
F. Crotty, ist Censor.
A. Schmitz, 2d Censor.
V. Papin, Standard-Bearer.
Leo Scherrer, Serg’t-at-Arms.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association-
The object of this Society, organized by Rev. T. E. Walsh,
C. S. C., on Nov. 25th, 1877, is the study of Elocution, and the
cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwewer,
Bishop of Fort Wayne,
Very Rev. E. Sonin, Sup.-Gen’l
of the Congregation of the Holy
Cross,
Hon. Directors.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
Bro. F. Regis, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
B.	B. Lindsey, ist Vice-President.
C.	F. West, 2d Vice-President.
C. W. Brown, Secretary.
C. A. Lindsey, Cor. Secretary.
R. G. Morrisson, Treasurer.
W. Welch, Librarian.
J. M. Studebaker, Marshal.
W. Devine, ist Monitor.
Leo Scherrer, 2d Monitor.
J. Sokup, ist Censor.
J. A. Wright, 2d Censor.
W. Prindiville, 3d Censor.
J. F. Coad, 4th Censor.
E.	Amoretti, Serg’t-at-Arms.
W. Stange, Property Manager.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. J. Edwards, President.
Bro. F. Regis, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
F.	P. Nester, ist Vice-President.
C. West, 2d Vice-President.
B.	B. Lindsey, Secretary.
F. I. Otis, Cor. Secretary.
R. G. Morrisson, Treasurer.
W. Stange, Librarian.
E. Thomas, Marshal.
C.	A. Lindsey, ist Monitor.
R. V. Papin, 2d Monitor.
W. McPhee, ist Censor.
I.	Bunker, 2d Censor.
E. Amoretti, 3d Censor.
J.	McGrath, 4th Censor.
W. Welch, Serg’t-at-Arms.
J. R. Devereux, Property Manager.
80	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MUSICAL.
University Orchestra.
ist Violin—Pi'of. Paul, Leader; Bro. Anselm, C. S. C. 2d Violin—Bro.
Leopold, C. S. C., H. Foote, J. Sykes. Viola—Bro. Basil, C. S. C. Violon-
cello—Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C. ist Flute—D. Saviers. 2d Flute—S.
Dickerson, A. Adler. Clarinet—Rev. A. Kirsch, C. S. C. ist Cornet—
J. Guthrie. 2d Cornet—W. Barron. ist French Horn—Rev. J. Toohey,
C. S. C. 2d French Horn—M. Aguilero. Trombone—Rev. J. Frere, C. S. C.
Basso—W. Schott.
Notre Dame University Cornet Band.
Director—Prof. D. Paul. Pres’t—Prof. F. Devoto. Treasurer—J. McIntyre.
Secretary—C. A. Tinley. Leader—J. Guthrie. El Cornet—J. Guthrie, A.
Ancheta. Bl Cornet—R. Aguilero, W. Barron, J/Spangler. Piccolo—D.
Saviers. Ely Alto—J. McIntyre, F. Wheatly, L. Kavanaugh. Bl Tenor—
F. Kaufman. Bl Baritone—A. Coll. Bl Bass —J. Carroll. El Bass—F.
Devoto. Tenor Trum—J. McR.Sykes. zBass Drum—J.Murphy. Cymbals
—O. Spencer.
ATHLETIC.
Base-Ball Association.
OFFICERS.
Directors I BrO’ Emmanuel, C. S. C.,
Directors. J Bro> paul, c $ c
President—Prof. F. Devoto.
Treasurer—Otis Spencer.
Secretary—C. Murdock.
NINES.
University—F. Wheatly, Capt. Star of the East—J. Guthrie, Capt.
Reserves—T. Callaghan and L. Mathers.
Scorers—W. P. Mahon and J. McR. Sykes.
Lemonnier Boat Club.
OFFICERS.
Director—. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C.
President—Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C.
Commodore—F. W. Gallagher.
Treasier er—James Solon.
Rec. Secretary—Otis Spencer.
Cor. Secretary—Frank Wheatly.
Captain	Evangeline ”)—D. C. Saviers.
Captain (“ Minnehaha ”)—Henry Steis.
Conferring of Degrees.
The (Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
Right Rev. Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon,
o	7
Bishop of Linares, Mexico.
The (Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
Francis W. Bloom, (Class of ’81,) Vincennes, Indiana.
The (Degree of Master of Science was conferred on
Eugene C. Orrick, (Class of ’82,) Canton, Miss.
John B. Berteling, M.D., (Class of’80,) Cincinnati, O.
The (Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Neal H. Ewing, Lancaster, 0.
Thomas Ewing Steele, Lancaster, 0.
William H. Bailey, Sommerville, Mass.
Francis W. Gallagher, E. Cambridge, Mass.
The degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred
on
Elmer A. Oris, San Antonio, Texas.
William W. Gray, Grayville, Ill.
John A. McIn tyre, Milwaukee, Wis.
Charles A. Tinley, Covington, Ky.
James Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.
82	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Tegree of Bachelor of Laws ws conferred on
Joseph E. Farrell, Lorain, O.
A Medical Certificate was awarded-to
F. E. Burke, Ashtabula, O.
DIPLOMAS,
Admitting to Freshman Class, were awarded to
Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque, Iowa.
Francis Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho.
Edward Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.
Carlisle Mason, Chicago, Ill.
William P. Mahon, Columbus, Miss.
John Halligan, Union, Mo.
John Klieber, Brownsville, Texas.
Charles Hausberg, Charles City, Iowa.
William Henry, Cincinnati, O.
Macrea Sykes, Fort Gibson, Indian Ty.
John C. Wagoner, Denison, Iowa.
Pontian Barela, Albuquerque, N. M.
George Costigan, Telluride, Col.
Paul Yrisarri, Bernalillo, N. M.
Commercial Graduates.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded *to
William E. Jeannot, Muskegon, Mich.
John M. Rogers, Alexis, Ill.
John E. McDonnell, Des Moines, Iowa.
Edward B. Gerlach, Portsmouth, O.
Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque, Iowa.
Louis J. Kavanaugh, Des Moines, Iowa.
Michael O’Dea, Columbus, O.
Warren A. Cartier, Ludington, Mich.
Francis H. Dexter, Kansas City, Mo.
Edward Ott, Norwalk, O.
George N. O’Brien, Tiffin, O.
Everett M. Holbrook, Manchester, Iowa.
George S. De Wolf, Denison, Iowa.
Charles E. Carroll, Grand Forks, Dakota.
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to
Bartholomew Cussen, Antwerp, O.
William Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.
George DeHaven, Chicago, Ill.
John Gallagher, Philadelphia, Pa.
John Neeson, Philadelphia, Pa.
Francis O’Rourke, Cold Water, Mich.
84	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THE GOLD MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS.
Presented by Mr. John English, Columbus, Ohio, was awarded to
THOMAS EWING STEELE,
LANCASTER, OHIO.
THE MASON GOLD MEDAL,
Presented to the Student in the Junior Department having the
Best Record for the Entire Year, was awarded to
FRANCIS HAGENBARTH,
CHALLIS, IDAHO.
This Medal was closely contested by Frank W. Dexter, Kansas City, Mo.; and John E. Mc-
Donnell, Des Moines, Iowa.
THE ERNEST GOLD MEDAL,
Presented to the Best Pupil in the Minim Department, was
AWARDED TO
MORTIMER E. O’KANE,
CINCINNATI, OHIO.
Closely contested by Benjamin B. Lindsey, Denver, Col.; Francis I. Otis, U. S. Army; Leo M.
Scherrer, Denver, Col.; William P. McPhee, Denver, Col.; Edward Kelly, Joliet, Ill.;
John Ernest, Denver, Col.; and Eugene Amoretti, Lander City, Wyoming Ty.
Class Prize Medals.
o
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to
Neal H. Ewing, Lancaster, O.
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore Class was awarded to
Sydney Dickerson, Denver, Col.
[The Medals in the Junior and Freshman Classes of this Course
were not awarded.J
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
JUNIOR CLASS.
Medal awarded to Charles C. Kolars, Le Sueur, Minn.
SOPHOMORE CLASS.
Medal awarded to William T. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.
FRESHMAN CLASS.
Medal awarded to J. Arthur Ancheta, Mesilia, New Mexico.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Gold Medal was awarded, ex cequo, to George
E. O’Brien, Tiffin, O., and to Eugene J. Ott, Norwalk, O.
The Gold Medal for Proficiency in Penmanship was awarded
to William E. Schott, Fort Wayne, Ind.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded
o	•
to Joseph E. Farrell, Lorain, O.
86	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
J. Arthur Ancheta, Mesilia, New Mexico.
The Corby Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
George O’Brien, Tiffin, O.
The Oechtering Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded
to Frank Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho.
The Silver Medal for Christian Doctrine (presented by Mr. M. J.
Revan, C. S. C.O was awarded to Samuel O’Brien, S. Bend, Ind.
The Gold Medal for German was awarded to Edward J. Ott,
Norwalk, O.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Penmanship in the Minim
Department was awarded, ex aequo, to Cale West, Cynthiana,
Ky.; Augustus Meehan, Covington, Ky.; William Cole,
Denver, Col.; James Fitzgerald, Muscatine, Iowa; Elmer
Scherrer, Denver, Col.
Gold Medals for Oratory and Elocution.
The Gold Medal for Oratory was awarded to Mr. J as. Solon,
Ivesdale, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Oratory and Elocution (presented by Prof.
Joseph A. Lyons,) was awarded to Mr. Elmer A. Otis, San
Antonio, Texas.
Lyons Senior Gold Medal for Excellence in Elocution was
awarded to Mr. Delano C. Saviers, Columbus, O. The Shea
Gold Medal for Proficiency in Elocution, awarded to Mr. Wm.
E. Ramsay, Lead City, Dakota. The Gold Medal for Progress
in Elocution, awarded to Mr. Otis C. Spencer, Denver, Col.
The Lyons Gold Medals for Improvement in Elocution, awarded
to Mr. Daniel G. Taylor, St. Louis, Mo., and to Mr. James
Conway, Ottawa, Ill.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal (presented by Very Rev.
Edward Sorin, Sup.-Gen’l. C. S. C.,) was awarded to Benjamin
B. Lindsey, Denver, Col.
The Gold Medal presented to the Sorin Literary and Dramatic
Association was awarded, ex cequo, to Rene V. Papin, St. Louis,
Mo.; John A. Wright, Denver, Col.; Francis P. Nester,
Detroit, Mich.; Francis I. Otis, U. S. Army; Richard Mor-
rison, Clarksville, Texas ; William P. Devine, Chicago, Ill.;
Mortimer E. O’Kane, Cincinnati, 0.; John P. Devereux,
New York.
Awarding of Honors.
-----o-----
[The “Fii'st Honor” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have followed
the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment
during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Joseph Farrell, Lorain, O.
Charles Kolars, Le Sueur, Minn.
A. A. Browne, Brownsville, Tex.
Henry Steis, Winamac, Ind.
James Solon, Ivesdale, Ill.
Delano Saviers, Columbus, O.
Arthur P. Coll, P hiladelphia, Pa.
W. Orchard, Nashville, Tenn.
Michael O’Dea, Columbus, O.
Louis Pour, Red Bud, Ill.
John M. Rogers, Alexis, Ill.
Otis Spencer, Denver, Col.
J. F. Grothaus, Washington, Mo.
J. D. Reach, Wyandotte, Kan.
Edward Smith, Circleville, O.
William Barron, Shannon, Ill.
Frank T. O’Rourke, Coldwater,
Mich.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Frederick Curtis, Adrian, Mich.
Pierre C. Cavaroc, Chicago, Ill.
Geo. Costigan, Telluride, Col.
Frank Fehr, Louisville, Ky.
John Fendrich, Evansville, Ind.
John Halligan, Union, Mo.
John Hagerty, St. Louis, Mo.
Wm. Mug, Lafayette, Ind.
J. McDonnell, Des Moines, la.
Wm. Schott, Fort Wayne, Ind.
Charles Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.
J. McGordon, Muskegon, Mich.
88
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
C. H. Spencer, Chicago, Ill.
John A. Wright, Denver, Col.
H. A. Schmitz, Chicago, Ill.
H. C. Dirksmeyer, Chicago, Ill.
Frank J. Garrity, Chicago, Ill.
Edwin A. Thomas, Chicago, Ill.
J. P. Devereux, New York, N.Y.
W. A. Welch
J. M. Studebaker, S. Bend, Ind.
B. B. Lindsey, Denver, Col.
Wm. P. McPhee, Denver, Col.
Edward McGrath, Chicago, Ill.
John T. Kelly, Joliet, Ill.
Rene V. Papin, St. Louis, Mo.
Francis I. Otis, U. S. Army.
Des Moines, la.
[The “ Second Honor ” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students who
have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose
deportment has been generally satisfactory.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
J. McNamara, South Bend, Ind. F. Delgado, Cusihuirriachie, Mex.
S. Crawford, Young’s Creek, Mo.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
Wm. Berthelet, Milwaukee,Wis. Jose Chaves, Belen, N. Mexico.
Jno. Dorenburg, Chicago, Ill. F. Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho.
Henry Foote, Burlington, Iowa. G. Schaefer, Riverdale, Ill.
Paul Johnson, Aurora, Ill.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
Wm. J. Stange, Chicago, Ill. John F. Coad, Wyoming Ty.
Richard C. Morrison, Clarks- I. L. Bunker, Kansas City, Mo.
ville, Texas.	G. A. Landenwich, Louisville,
C. A. Lindsey, Denver, Col. Ky.
John A. Kraus, Cincinnati, O. E. P. Costigan, Denver, Col.
CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses
of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the
whole time has been unexceptionable.’]
8
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
J. Anchondo,
T. Cass,
J. Klieber,
T. Callaghan,
J. DeGroot,
J. DeWolf,
A. J. Dennis,
C. Paschel,
J. F. Rudge,
A. Gonzales,
R. Aguilero,
V. Burke,
W. Lucas,
J. Ancheta,
P. Howard,
R. Marquez,
J. Mittendorf,
Geo. O’Brien,
E. Ott,
D. Gonser.
H. Paschel,
P. J. Goulding,
Fred Combe,
T. Becerra,
J. Guthrie,
L Uranga,
T. McKinnery.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
B. Arnold,
L. Anchondo,
J. Baur,
J. W. Breen,
F. Dexter,
A. Finckh,
J. Grunsfeld,
W. Houlihan,
G. Houck,
S. Flolman,
S. O’Brien,
J. Rogers,
C. Reynolds,
W. Sedberry,
M. Uranga,
W. Wabraushek,
J. Monschein,
T. Cleary,
E. Gimbel,
P. Mullane,
L. S ch euerm an,
T. Williamson,
C. Stubbs.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
M. E. O’Kane,
G. J. Meehan,
G. LaTourette,
W. D. Cole,
W. J. Henry,
A. T. Loya,
J. A. Lewis,
E. Amoretti,
C. E. Delaplaine,
J. J. Boos,
F. H. Crotty,
L. W. Scherrer,
C. A. Scherrer,
E. A. Scherrer,
E. Kelly,
W. C. Butterfield,
‘ C. Curtis,
M. L. Craw ford,
J. M. Uranga,
I. Grunsfeld,
F. M. Benner,
F. J. Noonan,
F. B, Weston,
M. A. Cummings,
J. A. McVeigh,
A. Nester,
F. J. Mullen.
H. J. Ackerman,
V. J. Papin,
D. Quill,
H. A. Morgan,
M. J. Coad,
J. W. Ernest,
W. Quiggle,
H. G. Addington,
J. S. Addington,
J. J. Fitzgerald,
J. O’Connor,
J. F. Sokup,
C. F. West,
Premiums.
Senior Department.
Anchondo, J.—Premium in Spanish.
Ancheta, J. A.—ist Premium in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in ist Geometry;
Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in Rhetoric; ist Premium in Botany;
Premium in Elocution.
Aguilvio, R.—ist Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in 3d Grammar;
3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Premium for Piano.
Banigan, J.—ist Accessit in English Logic; Premium in Elocution.
Baca, F.—2d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; ist
Accessit in ist Grammar.
Bowers, W.—3d Premium in Penmanship.
Barron, W.—ist Accessit in Trigonometry ; 3d Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine; Premium for Cornet.
Becerra, T.—Accessit in Spanish.
Bailey, W —Accessit in ist Latin; Accessit in ist Greek; 1st Accessit in
Botany; 3d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Brown, A.—Premium in Elocution ; 2d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Burke, V.—2d Accessit in Trigonometry; 3d Accessit in 7th Latin; ist Ac-
cessit in Rhetoric.
Burke, F. E.—2d Accessit in Botany; Premium in Anatomy.
Combe, F. E.—ist Accessit in 3d Algebra; 2d Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d Ac-
cessit in ist Grammar.
Carroll, J. T.—Premium in Elocution.
Can oil, C. E.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in ist Orthography;
3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Coll, A.—2d Accessit in English Logic; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium
in Elocution.
Carbajol, P.—Premium for Flute.
Cass, T. F.—Accessit in Elocution.
Cartier, W.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra; Premium in 3d French.
Cusack Joseph.—Premium in U. 8. History; ist Accessit in 2d French; 5th
Accessit in Penmanship.
Celia, A.—ist Accessit in 2d Algebra; 3d Premium in Phonography.
Conway, Jas.—ist Accessit in 5th Latin.
Cotihlin, W.—2d Accessit in Literature; Accessit in Elocution.
Cussen, B.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar;
ist Accessit in Penmanship.
Callaghan, T.—ist Premium in 5th Latin; ist Premium in Physiology; ist
Premium in English Logic; Premium in Elocution.
Creel, Jno.—Premium in 3d Arithmetic ; Premium in Drawing; 2d Accessit
in Penmanship; Premium for Spanish.
Delgado, F.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; Premium for Guitar; Premium
in Telegraphy
DeGroot, John.—ist Accessit in 4th German; ist Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine.
DeWolf, Geo.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in ist Geography;
Premium in ist History; 3d Accessit in ist Orthography; 6th Premium in ist
Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Grammar.
PREMIUMS.	91
DeHaven, Geo.—isl Accessit in 1st Orthography ; 2d Premium in Phon-
ography.
Dickerson, S.—Premium in 2d Latin; Premium in 3d Latin; 2d Premium
in Criticism; Premium for Flute.
Dennis, A. J.—4th Accessit in 1 st Arithmetic; Premium in Phonography.
Danielson, F.—2d Accessit for Reading.
Ewing, N.— Accessit in Moral Philosophy; Premium in 1 st Latin; 1 st Pre-
mium in Greek; 2d Premium for Piano.
Feltz, L.—1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d
Premium in 1st Orthography; Accessit in Phonography; Premium in 2d
German.
Fogarty, W.—xst Accessit in 1st Geograjhy; Premium ex cequo in 1st U. S.
History; 2d Accessit for Reading; 1 st Accessit in 1st Orthography; Premium
in Elocution; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Farrell, J. E.—3d Premium in Criticism; 2d Accessit in Ancient History;
Accessit in Elocution.
Fenlon, T. P.—2d Accessit in 4th Latin; 2d Accessit in 2d French.
Fitzgerald, H.—Premium in Drawing; Premium in Elocution.
Fox, J. W.—1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in xst U. S. History;
1st Accessit, ex cequo^ for Reading.
Grothaus, J. F.—2d Accessit in 1st Orthography ; 5th Premium in 2d Book-
Keeping; 1st Accessit in 1st Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st German; Accessit
in Elocution; 2d Acci ssit in Penmanship.
Gonser, D.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Grammar;
Premium in 1st Geography; 3d Premium in 1st Orthography ; 1st Accessit, ex
cequo. for Reading; Premium in Telegraphy.
Grandrup, W.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 5th Accessit in Penmanship.
Goulding P. J.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Gonzalez, A.—3d Premium in 2d Aiithmetic; Premium in Spanish.
Guthrie, Jno.—Accessit in Elocution. Premium in Physics.
Gutierrez, T. O.—2d Accessit in Phonography; 3d Accessit in xst Grammar;
3d Accessit in 4th German; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Gray, W.—1st Accessit in 1st Greek.
Gibert, L.—Accessit in Elocution; 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Gallagher, Jno.—2d Premium for Reading.
Galarneau, P.—1st Premium for Reading; Accessit in Vocal Music; Acces-
sit in Elocution.
Howard, P.—4th Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Accessit in Elocution.
Hausburg, C.—2d Premium in yth Latin; Accessit in German.
Hamlyn, Jno.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Gram-
mar; 3d Premium in xst Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
lohnston, W.—Premium ex aequo in Mechanics; 2d Accessit in General
Geometry; 2d Premium in Botany; Premium for Public Reading; Premium
for Physics.
Jones, A.—Accessit in Elocution.
Kavanaugh, L.—xst Accessit in Physiology; Accessit in Vocal Music; 2d
Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Kauffmann, C.—Accessit in Elocution.
Kolars, C. C.—Premium in General Geometry; xst Accessit in 4I1 Latin;
Premium in Geology; Premium in Chemistry; Premium in Zoology.
Klieber, Jno.—2d Premium in 6th Latin; 2d Accessit in 6th Greek; 2d Pre-
mium in Rhetoric; Premium in Elocution.
Lechuga, J.—Accessit in Telegraphy.
Lister, H. E—2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic;
xst Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Lasley, W.—Accessit in Elocution.	s
92
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Lucas, F. S.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Algebra;
Premium in 7th Latin; ist Premium in ist Grammar; Accessit in Elocution.
Murdock, S.—ist Accessit in Literature.
Murphy. J. M.—ist Premium in Vocal Music.
McCarthy, W. H.—ist Accessit in Surveying; 2d Premium in Literature;
2d Accessit in 3d French; ist Accessit in Modern History; Accessit for Piano.
McErlain, G.—ist Premium in Phonography; Premium for Violin; Ac-
cessit in Elocution.
McCabe, J. J.—4th Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in ist Orthog-
raphy.
McKinnery, T.—Accessit in 2d Latin; ist Accessit in 3d Latin; ist Accessit
in Criticism; Premium for Public Reading.
Mathers, L.—Premium in Astronomy; ist Accessit in 6th Greek; ist Ac-
cessit in Botany.
Marquez, R.—3d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in Drawing.
Murdock, C. M.—2d Accessit in Trigonometry; Premium in Surveying; ist
Premium in Literature; Premium in Drawing; 3d Accessit in Modern
History.
McMurray, A.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
McIntyre, jno.—Premium ex cequo in Mechanics; ist Accessit in Logic; ist
Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
McNamara, Jno.—Premium in ist History; 2d Premium in English Compo-
sition ; Accessit in Elocution.	’
McLaughlin, P.—ist Accessit in 2d Grammar; Premium for Reading; ist
Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; Accessit in Telegraphy.
Madden, J. F.—2d Premium in Rhetoric.
Mueller, A—2d Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Mahon, W. P.—Accessit in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.
Neeson, Jno.—5th Premium in Penmanship.
O’Brien, Geo.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Orthog-
raphy, 2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in Phonography; ist
Premium in English Composition.
Ott, E.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic ; ist Premium in ist Orthograph} ;
ist Premium in Book-Keeping; istPremium in English Composition; ist Pre-
mium in ist German; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine ; ist Accessit in
Penmanship.
O’Dea, M.—2d Accessit in 4th Algebra; 3d Accessit in Rhetoric; ist Pre-
mium in English Logic; Accessit in Elocution.
O’Rourke, T. F.—2d Premium in ist Orthography ist Accessit in ist
Grammar.
Orchard, W.—2d Acces>it in English Composition; Premium for Guitar;
2d Premium in Vocal Music; Accessit in Elocution.
Otis, E.—ist Accessit in Mechanics; Premium in Logic; Premium in 3d
Greek; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium for Public Reading.
O’Kane, G. F.—5th Accessit in 2d Bookkeeping; 3d Premium in Vocal
Music; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
O’Connell, W.—2d Accessit in ist Book-Keeping; ist Accessit in 4th Al-
gebra; ist Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian Doctrine.
O’Donnell, J. V.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist
French.
Paschel, C.—2d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; 3d Premium in Vocal Music;
2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; Acccessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit
in Penmanship.	*
Paschel, H.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; ist Accessit in ist United States
History; 6th Premium in 2d Book Keeping; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 4th
Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution; 4th Accessit in
Penmanship.
PREMIUMS.	93
Pour, L.—2d \ ccessit in 2d Geometry; 2d Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Porter, H.—1st Accessit in General Geometry; Premium in German; Pre-
miumin Drawing; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium in Chemistry.
Rudge, J. E.—Premium in Elocution.
Rogers J. M.—Premium in 2d Algebra; 3d Premium in Rhetoric; 3d Ac-
cessit in 3d Christian Doctrine; Accessit in Elocution.
Reach, J. D.—1st Premium in yth Latin; Premium in Elocution.
Riley, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography.
Ramsay, W. E.—2d Accessit in 1 st Geography; 1st Premium in 1 st Gram-
mar; 1st Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
Solon, J.—2d Accessit in Logic; Premium for Public Reading; 3d Premium
in 1 st Christian Doctrine.
Shea, J.—2d Accessit in 1 st \rithmetic; 6th Premium in x st Book-Keeping.
Steis, H.—1st Accessit in 1st Algebra; 1st Accessit in 1st German; Premium
in Elocution; Premium for Public Reading.
Slattery, W.—5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 2d Book-
Keeping; 1st Premium in 4th Algebra; Accessit in Phonography; 2d Premium
in 1st Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Schol field, B.—Accessit in Elocution.
Sykes, M.—1st Accessit in Phonography; Premium for Violin.
Spencer, O.—3d Accessit in 1st Literature; 2d Premium in Modern History.
Steele, T. E.—Premium in Moral Philosophy.
Saviers, D.—Premium in Drawing.
Smith, E.—1st Accessit in English Composition; Accessit in Elocution.
Smith, T.—2d Accessit in 2d Algebra; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; Pre-
mium in 2d French; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Smith, G. H.—Accessit in 2d Latin; 2d Accessit in 3d Latin; 2d Accessit
in Criticism; 3d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Shields, J. F.—Accessit for Reading; 2d Accessit in 8th Latin; Accessit in
Elocution.
Tinley, C. A.—Accessit in Geology; 2d Accessit in Zoology; 2d Premium
in 1 st Christian Doctrine.
Uranga, J.—Premium in Telegraphy.
Violette, Jno —3 1 Accessit in 2d Book-Keeping.
Warner, C.—3d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic; Accessit for Reading; 3d Ac-
cessit in 2d Book-Keeping; Premium in Phonography
Wilson, J.—6th Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in Phonogra-
phy ; 3d Premium in Rhetoric.
Wagoner, J.—4th Accessitin 4th Orthography; 1st Accessit in 2d Geometry;
2d Premium in 5th Latin; 1st Premium in 6th Greek.
Warren, P.—rist Accessit in 1st Grammar.
Wheatly, F.—Accessit in Elocution.

94	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Junior Department.
-----o-----
Adler, A.—Premium for Flute; 5th Accessit in Penmanship.
Arnold, B.—1st Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium, in
Vocal Music.
Anchondo, L.—3d Premium in 3d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium
in 1st Catechism.
Armijo, D.—1st Accessit in Penmanship.
Barrons, S.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar.
Berthelet, W.—4th Premium in 2d Book-keeping-; 2d Accessit in Physiology;
Accessit in German.
Barela, P.—3d Premium in 2d Catechism.
Brown, F.—2d Premium in 1st U. S. History.
Baur, J.—1st Accessit in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st
Accessit in 3d German.
Barclay, 1).—2d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 1st Accessit in
2d Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d German; 3d Accessit in Penmanship.
Benner, E.—3d Accessit in 4th Grammar.
Breene, J.—1st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography ; 3d Premium in 1st
Geography; 3d Accessit in 1st U. S. History; Accessit in Elocution.
Barnard, H.—1st Accessit in 4th Grammar; 1st Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Cohen, II.—3d Premium in 1st Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in
1st Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; 2d Accessit in 1st German.
Cartier, G.—3d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 4th Accessit in 3d
Grammar; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Cartier, D.—3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Accessit in 3d
Grammar; 1st Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Courtney, J.—2d Accessit in 1st Algebra; 1st Accessit in 6th Latin; Acces-
sit foi' Public Reading.
Crawford, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; 3d Accessit in 3d German;
Accessit in Elocution.
Curtis, F.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Chaves, J.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Premium in Vocal Music.
Cavaroc, C.—2d Premium in xst Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in
2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Catechism;
2d Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Accessit in 1st French.
Combe, F.—xst Accessit in 2d Geography.
Crilly, G.—4th Premium in 3d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 2d Arithmetic.
Cleary, T.—1st Accessit in xst Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d
Accessit in 7 th Latin; 2d Premium in 1st German.
Clarke, M.—Accessit in Phonography; 4th Premium in Penmanship.
Costigan, G.—2d Premium in xst Grammar; xst Accessit in xst Arithmetic;
2d Premium in 3d Algebra; Accessit for Piano; Accessit in Elocution.
Cassily, F.—Accessit in Elocution; 6th Accessit in Penmanship.
Dwenger, J.—xst Accessit in xst Reading and Orthography; xst Accessit in
xst Arithmetic; 7th Premium for Penmanship.
Devereux, R.—3d Accessit in Physiology; Premium in Elocution.
Dexter, F.—6th Premium in xst Book keeping; xst Premium in 3d Algebra;
xst Accessit in xst Geometry; Premium in German; xst Accessit in Ancient
History; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; xst Pre-
mium for Public Reading.
PREMIUMS.
95
Deaderich, T.—ist Accessit in 5th. German.
Devine J.—2d Accessit in 4th Get man; 3d Premium in 2d Catechism; Ac-
cessit in Elocution.
Ewing E.—3 i Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; ist Premium in
2d Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in Sth Latin.
Eisenhauer, A.—Premium for Cornet.
Fitzgerald J.—4th Accessit in 2d Grnnmar; 4th Accessit in ist Arithmetic;
3d Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; Accessit in Elocution.
Fehr, F.—Accessit in Drawing.
Fendrich, J.—ist Premium in Trigonometry; ist Pr< mium in ist Algebra;
Premium in Elocution; ist Premium in Penmanship; ist Acc. for Pub. Reading.
Fierro, M.—ist Accessit in Penmanship.
Foote, H.—Premium in Linear Drawing; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; Pre-
mium for Violin; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium for Public Reading.
Finckh, A.—4th Accessit in 2d Grammar.
Garrity, J.—3d Accessit in 3d Grammar; 3d Premium in Vocal Music; Pre-
mium in Elocution.
Gerlach, E.—ist Premium in 3d Algebra; Accessit in Vocal Music; 3d Pre-
mium in Penmanship.
Gimbel, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Grunsfeld, J.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic;
2d Premium in 4th German.
Hemisbaugh, W.—2d Accessit in 4th Grammar.
Hagenbarth, F.—ist Premium in 2d Algebra; ist Premium in 2d Geometry;
ist Piemium in 6th Latin; ist Premium in English Composition; Premium in
German; Premium in Ancient History; Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium
for Public Reading.
Howard, E. A.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 4th Accessit in 2d Book-keep-
ing; Premium for Cornet.
Howard, J. E.—Accessit in Vocal Mu-ic.
Halligan, J.—2d Accessit in 6th Latin; 2d Premium in Phonography; 2d
Premium in Penmanship.
Huestis, J.—ist Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography.
Henry. W.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Algebra; 2d
Premium in 6th Greek; Accessit in Elocution.
Harris, C.—3d Accessit in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 3d German; Acces-
,sit in Elocution.
Houck, G.—ist Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; ist Accessit in
ist Geography; ist Premium in ist United States History; 2d Premium in 4th
Algebra; Accessit in Elocution.
Houlihan, Wm.J—3d Premium m Phonography.
Holman, S—ist Premium in 5th German; Accessit in Elocution.
Hagerty, J.—ist Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in
ist Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist Book-keeping, ist Premium in Penmanship.
Holbrook, E.—ist Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; 3d Premium
in ist Grammar; 2d Accessit in ist Geography; 3d Premium ist Arithmetic;
ist Accessit in ist U. S. History; 2d Premium in ist Book-keeping.
Johnson, P.—2d Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography.
Kelly, M.—ist Accessit in 2d Catechism.
Lewis, G.—6th Premium in 2d Book-keeping; 4th Accessit in Penmanship.
Lewis, R.—4th Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; ist Premium in 3d
Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Geography.
Loescher, M.—4th Accessit in 3d Arithmetic.
Leoni, M.—ist Premium in 4th Grammar; 2d Accessit in 5th German; 2d
Premium in 2d Catechism.
Luther, M.—3d Premium in ist Reading and Orthography; 3d Premium in
ist United States History.
96
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Lane, F.—1st Accessit in ist United States History.
Mulkern, M.—2d Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in ist Arith-
metic; 2d Premium in 1st U.S. History; 4th Premium in 1st Book-keeping;
2d Premium in 1st Algebra; Accessit in Elocution; Accessit foi' Public Read-
ing.
Monschein, J.—ibt Accessit in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in 2d Book-keep-
ing; 2d Accessit in 2d German; 2d Accessit in Modern History; 3d Premium
in Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium for Public Reading.
Mullane, P.—2d Premium in 1st Reading’ and Orthography; ist Accessit in
1st Book-keeping; Premium in Telegraphy.
Muhler, C.—ist Accessit in 2d Book-keeping; Accessit in Phonography.
Menig, G.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Catechism; Ac-
cessit in Elocution.
Mason, C.—Accessit in Elocution.
Moye, A.— Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Murphy, W.—3d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Arithmetic;
ist Premium in 3d German; ist Accessit in ist Catechism.
Mug, W.—ist Premium in Literature; ist Premium in Modern History; Pre-
mium for Guitar; 2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; ist Accessit in Zoology.
Major, F.—2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Martinez, G—7th Accessit in Penmanship.
McDonnell, J.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arith-
metic; ist Premium in ist U. S. History; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; 2d Pre-
mium in 2d Geometry; Premium in Elocution; 3d Premium in Penmanship;
2d Premium in ist Geography.
McGordon, J.—3d Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; 5th Accessit in
2d Grammar.
McGordon, C.—ist Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 3d Arith-
metic.
McGill, T.—6th Accessit in Penmanship.
Nester, J—ist Premium in 2d Catechism; Accessit in Elocution; 5th Pre-
mium in Penmanship.
O’Brien, S.—2d Accessit in ist Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in ist
Grammar; 3d Accessit in ist Book-keeping; 2d Premium in Phonography; ist
Premium in ist Catechism; 5th Premium in Penmanship.
Plischke, A.—3d Premium in Vocal Music.
Porter, C.—2d Premium for Piano; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium for
Public Reading.
Porter, E.—3d Premium in 3d Algebra; ist Accessit in English Composi-
tion; ist Premium in ist Catechism.
Pohl, E.—ist Accessit in Penmanship.
Perley, K.—4th Accessit in 3d Grammar.
Quill, D.—ist Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d
Catechism.
Rogers, F.—3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic; 3d Accessit in ist Geography; 2d
Accessit in ist U. S. History; ist Premium in 4th German; 3d Premium in ist
Catechism.
Regan, C.—2d Accessit, 2d Division, in 2d Arithmetic; Accessit in Elocution.
Reynolds, C.—3d Accessit in ist Grammar; 3d Accessit in ist Arithmetic;
2d Premium for Piano; Accessit in Elocution.
Rhodus, T.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; Accessit for Piano.
Ruppe, P.—ist Premium in 2d Catechism.
Ruffing, C.—Accessit for Piano.
Shea, T.—6th Accessit in Penmanship.
Sedberry, H.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th Algebra; ist
Accessit in 7th Latin.
PREMIUMS.	97
Scheuerman, L.—3d Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography; 4th Premium
in 1 st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Book-keeping; Accessit in Elocution.
Scheuerman, M.—2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 1st Arithmetic;
2d Accessit in 3d German.
Servis, P.—2d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Schmauss, E.—3d Premium in 3d Grammar; 2d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic;
3d Premium in Vocal Music.
Schott, W.—1 st Premium for Piano; 1st Premium for Public Reading; 1st
Accessit in 1st French.
Schaefer, G.—4th Premium in Phonography; 1st Premium for Piano; 1st
Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium for Public
Reading.
Stubbs, C.—Accessit in Elocution.
Shields, J.—2d Accessit in 8th Latin.
Talbot, J.—1 st Accessit in 1st Reading and Orthography.
Tarrant, G.—3d Premium in 2d Catechism; Accessit in Elocution.
Trepanier, E.—3d Accessit in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Tewksberry, D.—1st Accessit, 2d Division in 2d Arithmetic.
Uranga, M.—2d Accessit in 3d Reading and Orthography; Premium in Arith-
metic; Accessit in Vocal Music.
Warner, H.—2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography; 3d
Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Warner, A.—2d Accessit in 2d Grammar; Accessit in Elocution.
Wagner, W.—2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Premium in
2d Geography; 1st Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Wagoner, P.—2d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography.
Wabraushek, W.—3d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 3d Accessit in 1st Arith-
metic; 2d Premium in 2d Book-keeping; 1st Accessit in 3d German; 1st Acces-
sit in 1st Catechism; 2d Accessit in Penmanship.
Weiler, J.—1st Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Accessit in 3d
Grammar; 4th Accessit in 3d German; Accessit in French.
Williamson, T.—2d Accessit in 2d Reading and Orthography; 1 st Premium
in 2d Arithmetic.
Wilkes, G.—1st Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Minim Department.
Amoretti, E.—1 st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th
Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Addington, J.—1st Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 5th Read-
ing; 6th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Addington, H—2d Premium in 8th Reading; 2d Premium in 7th Arith-
metic; 2d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Ackerman, H.—9th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Read-
ing; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Adams, E.—4th Premium'in 6th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Arrache, A.—7th Premium in 8th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Penman-
ship.
Arrache, S.—6th Premium in 8th Reading; 7th Premium in 6th Orthog-
raphy.
98	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bunker, I.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d United
States History; 2d Accessit in 2d Geography.
Brown, C.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 2d Accessit in 2d Penman-
ship ; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Butterfield, W.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 5th
Reading; 7th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Boos, J.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 4th
Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 4th Reading.
Benner, F.—3d Premium in 8th Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Arithmetic;
4th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Coad, J.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Accessit in ist Orthography;
7th Premium in 2d Geography; 6th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Coad, M.—4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in 8th
Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Crawford, M.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 4th Read-
ing; £th Premium in 2d Geography.
Cole, W.—ist Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship;
5th Premium in 3d Reading.
Curtis, C.—ist Accessit in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 5th Reading;
2d Premium in 3th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Costigan, E.—ist Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Arith-
metic; 4th Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Comins, P.—ist Accessit in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 6th Reading;
4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Crotty, F.—ist Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic;
ist Accessit in German; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Cummings, M.—8th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 6th Premium in ist
Reading; 7th Premium in German; 2d Accessit in ist Orthography.
Calvin, D.—4th Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Pen-
manship.
Delaplaine, C.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 7th Premium in ist Or-
thography; 3d Accessit in ist Penmanship; 6th Premium in ist Geography;
2d Accessit in ist Geography.
Devine, W.—7th Premium in ist Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic;
6th Premium in 2d Orthography; 8th Premium in 2d Geography; ist Pre-
mium in Vocal Music; 5th Premium for Piano.
Devereux, J.—7th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Orthog-
raphy; 8th Premium in 2d Geography; 2d Accessit in ist Christian Doctrine.
Devereux, A.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Arith-
metic; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Dirksmeyer, H.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in German;
2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Accessit in Orthography.
Dunford, F.—5th Premium in 6th Reading; 7th Premium in 7th Arith-
metic.
Doss, J.—6th Premium in 4th Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Doss, E.—9th Premium in 6th Reading; 8th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Doss, S.—9th Premium in 8th Reading; 9th Premium in 8th Orthography.
Ernest, J.—2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship;
4th Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 6th Reading; 2d Accessit
in German.
Fulwiler, W.—3d Premium in 3d Reading; 9th Premium in 2d Penman-
ship ; 4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Fitzgerald, J.—ist Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 5th Read-
ing; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Garrity, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Christian
Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in Vocal Music.
PREMIUMS.
99
Grunsfeld, J.—3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 5th Reading;
4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Grimes, W.—4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 6th Read-
ing; 8th Premium in 3d Geography.
Grimes, A.—4th Premium in 7th Reading; 1st Premium in 7th Arith-
metic ; 2d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Gibson, P.—6th Premium in 6th Reading; 7th Premium in 4th Orthog-
raphy.
Henry, W.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Geography;
3d Accessit in 2d Orthography; 7th Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Harris, C.—2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 5th Reading;
7th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Inderrieden, C.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d
Christian Doctrine; 3d Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Inderrieden, R.—3d Premium in 8th Reading; 3d Premium in 8th Arith-
metic; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography.
Johns, C.—2d Premium in 7th Reading; 2d Premium in 7th Arithmetic;
3d Premium in 7th Orthography.
Jones, C.—6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 6th Reading.
Kelly, J.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Accessit in 2d Christian Doc-
trine; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Kelly, E.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 1st Accessit in 5th Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Premium in 3d Geography.
Kraus, J.—5th Premium in 1st Grammar; 9th Premium in 1st Reading;
4th Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine; 2d Accessit in 1st Orthography.
Lindsey, B.—1st Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic;
5th Premium in 1 st Orthography; rst Accessit in 1st Penmanship; 1 st Pre-
mium in Elocution.
Lindsey, C.—4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 8th Premium in 2d Arith-
metic; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Accessit in German; 3d Accessit in
rst Penmanship.
LaTourette, G.—rst Premium in 2d Reading; rst Accessit in 3d Arith-
metic; 5th Accessit in Penmanship; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Landenwich, G.—rst Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 4th
Reading; 3d Accessit in 2d Penmanship.
Loya, A.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Accessit in 3d Arithmetic; 7th
Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Lewis, J.—3d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 4th Reading;
3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Morrison, R.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Gram-
mar; 7th Premium in rst Reading; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th
Premium in German.
Mullen, E.—5th Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Pen-
manship; 9th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 6th Accessit in 2d Reading.
Mullen, A.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 7th Premium in 6th Arithmetic;
3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
McGrath, E.—1st Premium in 4th Orthography; 4th Premium in 6th Arith-
metic; 5th Premium in 7th Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
McGrath, J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Orthog-
raphy; 8th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine;
6th Premium in Vocal Music.
McPhee, W.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; rst Accessit in 3d Arithmetic;
2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 1st Premium in 2d Orthography; rst Premi-
um for Piano.
McVeigh, J.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 3d Reading;
4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Accessit in German; 2d Premium in 2d
Orthography.
IOO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Meehan, A.—7th Premium in 1st Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Read-
ing; 9th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine;
5th Premium-in 1st Penmanship.
McGuire, W.—6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 4th Read-
ing; 5th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
McGuire, T.—4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 7th Read-
ing; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine. •
McCourt, W.—6th Premium in 3d Reading; 7th Premium in 4th Arith-
metic; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.
McCourt, M.—3d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 7th
Reading; 1st Premium in 8th Arithmetic.
Murphy, F.—5 th Premium in 6th Reading; 4th Premium in 6th Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
McGill, W.—1st Premium in 8th Reading; 3d Premium in 7th Arithmetic;
3d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Morgan, H.—2d Premium in 7th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 5th Orthog-
raphy; 2d Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Manzanares, F.—6th Premium in 8th Reading; 7th Premium in 6th Orthog-
raphy.
Noonan, F.—4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 5th Read-
ing; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Nester, A.—2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 7th
Reading; 2d Premium in 8th Arithmetic.
Nester, F.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar;
5th Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 8th Pre-
mium in 1 st Orthography.
O’Kane, M.—1st Premium in 2d Aiithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Reading;
6th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 2d Premium foi' Piano; 5th Premium in
Vocal Music; Premium in German.
O’Kane, B.—xst Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Penman-
ship; 4th Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Geography.
Otis, F.—6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 1st Reading; 1st
Premium in 1st Grammar; 9th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 3d Premium for
Piano.
O’Connor, J.—1st Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 4th
Penmanship; 1st Accessit in 5th Orthography.
Papin, R.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 8th Premium in 1st Orthography;
2d Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in Vocal Music.
Papin V.—6th Premium in 8th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Orthography;
8th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Prindiville, D.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in 2d
Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Accessit in 2d Orthography.
Padden, J.—5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Accessit in 2d Penman-
ship ; 4th Premium in 3d Reading.
Perkins, H.—3d Premium in 8th Reading; 2d Premium in 8th Arithmetic;
3d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Quinlin, C.—3d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 7th
Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography.
Quiggle,W.—3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 6th Reading;
2d Premium in 4th Orthograpl y.
Quill, D.—xst Premium in 8th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Orthography;
5th Premium in 8th Arithmetic.
Rebori, V.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Reading;
8th Premium in xst Geography; 6th Premium in xst Penmanship; Accessit
in German.
PREMIUMS.	ioi
Schmitz, H.—7th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 9th Premium in 1st Read-
ing; 1st Accessit in 1 st Grammar; 7th Premium in 1 st Orthography.
Stange, W.—9th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 9th Premium in 1st Orthog-
raphy ; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Accessit in 1st Grammar; 4th Pre-
mium for Piano.
Studebaker, J.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Read-
ing; 5th Accessit in 1st Geography; 8th Premium in Penmanship.
Sumner, A.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; .
3d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Spencer, C.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 1st Orthog-
raphy; 8th Premium in 1st Grammar; 5th Premium in German.
Shoneman, S.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 7th Premium in 4th Arith-
metic; 5th Accessit in 3d Reading.
Sokup, J.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Accessit in 2d Christian
Doctrine; 7th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Scherrer, L.—1st Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Arithmetic;
3d Accessit in German; 4th'Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Premium in
Christian Doctrine.
Scherrer, C.—1st Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 6th Reading;
3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Scherrer, E.—2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 7th
Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Salmon, F.—2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 6th Reading;
3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Smith, C.—1 st Premium in 4th Reading; Sth Premium in 4th Arithmetic;
7th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Thomas, E.—^fh Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 8th Premium in 1st Penman-
ship; 5th Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Accessit in 1 st,Christian Doctrine;
4th Premium in Vocal Music.
Uranga, J.—-5th Premium in 4th Reading; 7th Premium in 2d Orthography;
6th Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
West, C.—5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium in 1st Penmanship;
6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 9th Premium in 1st Geography; 6th Pre-
mium in German.
Welch, W.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar;
4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st Geography; Premium
in 1st Penmanship.
Welch, A.—4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 7th
Reading; 4th Premium in 8th Arithmetic.
Wright, J.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 1st-Penmanship;
9th Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Accessit in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Weston, F.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Geography;
2d Accessit in 4th Arithmetic.
Young, C.—7th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 6th Reading;
4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Hsptieteh Annual Gem^ence^ent
OF THE

Monday Evening, June the 23rd, 1884..
5.00 — Reading of Examination Reports.
7.30 — Exercises by the Graduating Class and Euglossian As-
sociation, closing with the Fourth Act of Shakespeare’s
cast of characters:
SHYLOCK, -	-	-	-	-	- D. C. Saviers
DUKE OF VENICE, -	Elmer A. Otis
ANTONIO, MERCHANT OF VENICE, -	- Wm. E. Ramsay
PORTIA, ------ J- J- Conway
BASSANIO, ...... Otis B. Spencer
GRATIANO, -	-	-	-	-	- J. T. Carroll
NERISSA, -	H. J. Fitzgerald
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS IN THE
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.	103
Tuesday, June the 24th.
8.00 a.m., — Alumni Mass.	10.30 a.m., — Regatta.
9.30 “ — Alumni Meeting.	2.00 p.m., — Field Sports.
DISTRIBUTION OF PREMIUMS IN SENIOR
AND JUNIOR DEPARTMENTS.
7.30 p.m., — Entertainment in Music Hall by the Orpheonic
and Thespian Associations.
<xx> -
Wednesday, June 25.
8.00 A.M., — Valedictory; followed by the
ORATION OF THE DAY,
BY THE
Right Rev. Ignacio Montes de Oca y Obregon, D. D.,
Bishop of Linares, Mexico.
Bishof of Linares, Mexico.
AWARDING OF HONORS, CONFERRING OF DE-
GREES, ETC.
St. Mai?fs flGadeffiy.
One Mile West of the University of Motre (Dame.
------o
NOW entering upon its 30th year of active educational work, St.
Mary’s Academy for 'rioting Ladies has justly earned the repu-
tation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and successful
educational institutions in the United States.
The Academy buildings—large, well ventilated and commodious,
heated w'ith steam, supplied with hot and cold water, and with fire
escapes of the latest and best kind—are beautifully and healthfully
located on an eminence overlooking the picturesque banks of the St.
Joseph river. On the dividing ridge of the St. Lawrence and
Mississippi river systems, it is in the highest and healthiest part
of the State.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical education
are taught by a Faculty of competent teachers, forty-two in number.
French and German, as well as Plain Sewing and every variety
of Fancy Needlework, are taught without extra charge. Book-
Keeping in regular course; Phonography and Typewriting extra.
TLJjr r'/^\Mrrn\/mt i imr*
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
is conducted on the plan of the best classical Conservatories of
Euiupc. imec msiruinenLai lessons ana one in rneory, witn nve
in general singing class, weekly, are included in the regular pension;
extra practice pro rata.
THE ART DEPARTMENT
embodies the same principles that form the basis of instruction in
the Art Schools of Europe. In the schools of Painting and Music,
pupils at St. Mary’s may pursue a special course.
For Catalogue, containing full information, address
SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
A regular omnibus line between South Bend, Notre Dame, and St. Mary’s,
connects with all trains.
1?'