&
FORTY-FIRST
OF THE
f)
Annual Catalogue
$
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE




(>
For the Academic Year 1884-85.

(>
Annual Commencefnent,
Wednesday, June 24,1 £585.



(N
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
5
*
T/
Si
FORTY-FIRST
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE




0/
Annual Commencement
Wednesday? June 24? IOB5.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA:
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
Board of Trustees.
---o----
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C,
President.
REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C,
Chancellor.
REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
BRO. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
Officers of the University.
---o----
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.?
President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. JOHN M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
Rev. M. J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C.,
*	Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
Senior Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C., Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C,	Bro. ALOYSIUS, C. S. C.
Junior Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C., Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C.,
Bro. MARCELLUS, C. S. C., Bro. AUGUSTINE, C. S. C.
Minim Department.
Bro. WILLIAM, C. S. C., Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M. D., Physician.
Faculty.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Christianity.
Rev. JOHN M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.,
Modern Languages.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. A. M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences, and Assistant Curator of the Museum.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Moral Philosophy.
Rev. M. ROBINSON, C. S. C,
Mathematics and Modern Languages.
Rev. J. DUHALDE, C. S. C,
French Language and Literature.
FACULTY.
5
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON, M. D.,
Human Anatomy and. Physiology.
Rev. JOHN O’BRIEN,
Latin Language and Literature.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M., LL. D,
Latin and English.
*
ARTHUR J. STACE, A. M, C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History, and Librarian of the Lemonnier Library.
FLORIAN DEVOTO, A. M., M. S.,
Mathematics.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. B.,
Law.
CHARLES WARREN STODDARD,
English Literature,
u
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
JOHN P. THILLMAN, C. S. C.,
Latin and German.
JOHN SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
German and Vocal Music.
Bro. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
Book-Keeping.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C,
Telegraphy.
Bro. STANISLAUS, C. S. C.,
Phonography.
ALBERT F. ZAHM, A. B.,
Mathematics and Physical Sciences.
ELMER A. OTIS, B. S.,
English and Mathematics.
NEAL H. EWING, A. B.,
Greek and Mathematics.
F. X. CLAFFEY,
Mathematics and Penmanship.
MICHAEL O’DEA,
Telegraphy and Type-Writing.
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C., Bro. EMMANUEL, C.S.C.,
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C., Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
Bro. MARCELLUS, C. S. C., Bro. ALOYSIUS. C. S. C.,
Bro. AUGUSTINE, C. S. C.
Department of Fine Arts.
MUSIC.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Organ, Piano, Guitar, and Flute.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Violin and Clarionet.
Bro. ANSELM, C. S. C.,
Vocal Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.
DAMIS PAUL,
Director of Band and Orchestra.
PAINTING AND DRAWING.
Signor LUIGI GREGORI,
Historical Painting.
H. ACKERMANN,
Architectural Painting.
Bro. ANSELM, C.S.C.,
Linear and Mechanical Dra-wing.
Special Faculties.
The President of the University is ex-officio President of each of the Special Faculties.
Faculty of Arts.
Rev. Nicholas Stoffel, C. S. C.
Rev. Stanislaus Fitte, C. S. C.
Rev. John O’Brien.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., LL. D.
William Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
Charles Warren Stoddard.
Faculty of Science.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C.
Arthur J. Stace, A. M.
F. Devoto, A. M., M. S.
J. F. Edwards, A. M., LL. B.
Albert F. Zahm, A. B.
Commercial Faculty-
Rev. John M. Toohey, C. S. C.
Rev. Michael Robinson, C. S. C.
Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.
Bro. Philip Neri, C. S. C.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M.
Law Faculty.
William Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
John Gibbons, A. M., LL. B.
Andrew J. Egbert, A. M., J. D. U. Gott.
John G. Ewing, A. M., LL. B.
T. E. Howard, A. M., LL. B.
Faculty of Civil Engineering.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Arthur J. Stage, A. M., C. E.
Florian Devoto, A. M., M. S.
(MAIN BUILDING.)
ERECTED AUG.1873. DEDICATED SEPT 8rH 1879.
NOTRE DAME.
In 1842 the Very Rev. E. Sorin, now Superior-General of the
Congregation of the Holy Cross, visited this place for the first
time, having previously travelled through a great part of the
Northwest in the discharge of his missionary duties. Specially
interested in the promotion of education, as representative of the
Congregation of the Holy Cross, a mere glance fully satisfied him
that this would be a most desirable site for an institution of learn-
ing; and he determined here to remain, here to establish the
chief house of the Congregation, here to build the
University of Notre
In that year it was founded, and in 1844 it was chartered
by the General Assembly of Indiana. Its growth kept pace with
the unprecedented progress of the great Northwest. It exhibited
an enterprise not unworthy of the-energy and public spirit that
peopled the prairies and built the magnificent cities of the Mis-
sissippi Valley. Building after building was erected as the needs
of its progress seemed to demand. The number of students
steadily increased, and the reputation of Notre Dame passed
from State to State, and gradually spread over the entire country.
Before many years had elapsed it had attained an honorable rank
among the educational institutions of the Union.
A few years ago, however, Notre Dame was subjected to one
of the severest of trials. April 23d, 1879, five of the University
buildings, including the main one, were entirely destroyed by
fire. The contents of the museums, libraries, class-rooms, study-
halls, etc., were burned to ashes or irretrievably ruined. But the
energy and recuperative powers of the Institution were equal to
the emergency. While the fire still lingered among the smolder-
ing ruins the work of preparing for the new building was begun,
and during May and all the Summer the work of constructing
it was busily and uninterruptedly prosecuted. When September
came and the students returned they found on the site of the
old building one of the largest and most magnificent college
edifices in the country. Since then the needs of its progress
have rendered necessary the construction of a wing on either
side, and several large and imposing buildings in the vicinity.
IO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
These do not suffer by comparison with the main building, when
their respective uses are considered. All of them are new, well
lighted, thoroughly ventilated, heated by steam, and supplied
with the most appropriate and serviceable modern improve-
ments. They present a striking harmony of color, being built
of cream-colored brick. But even a very brief description of
The Main and Ancillary (Buildings
necessarily involves a more specific reference to them severally,
and the most natural order of dealing with them assigns first
place to the
Main Building.—This is five stories high, while its dimensions
are 320x155 feet. The distance from the ground to the elec-
tric light just above the statue which surmounts the dome is 200
feet. The libraries, museums, art galleries, class-rooms, study-
halls, dormitories, lavatories, refectories, etc., are appropriately and
conveniently arranged. On the first floor are refectories, lava-
tories, trunk-rooms, the armory, etc. The refectories are richly
ornamented with mural paintings, representing many of the most
celebrated churches and buildings in the world, and beautifully
illustrating the progress of architecture. The lavatories are sup-
plied with hot and cold water, and have all the customary accom-
modations. The armory contains over one hundred stand of arms,
with bayonets, cartridge-belts, etc. These arms were procured
from the State, and many of the students make use of them,
form companies, and learn to drill. The receptr n parlors, and
the offices of the President, Secretaries and Prefect of Discip-
line are on the main floor, as are also the study-halls, several
of the class-rooms, the telegraph office, and the students’ office.
This floor is tastefully constructed of tiling, while the cor-
ridor is lined with a series of superb mural paintings — the
work of the distinguished Roman artist, Luigi Gregori, —
which illustrate the leading events in the life of Columbus, or,
more particularly, such of them as history associates with the
discovery of America. Portraits of distinguished ecclesiastics,
including almost all the Catholic Bishops in the United States,
those living as well as those who have gone to their reward,
line the walls of the corridors on the floor above, and it is
appropriately called “ the Bishops’ Gallery.” The society rooms
are on the same floor, as are also some of the class-rooms. They
are tastefully ornamented with paintings, mural decorations, and
the like, not to mention the busts of several noted personages. The
Law Library and Lecture room, a small museum, and the rooms
PROSPECTUS.
ii
of several of the professors, as well as two large dormitories, are
likewise on this floor. The Lemonnier Library is on the fourth
floor, and there also is a museum of curiosities. Two large dormi-
tories that correspond in size and appearance to those below,
together with the rooms of students of the graduating classes
and of some of the professors, occupy the rest of the floor. The
music rooms of the vocal classes take up the greater part of the
fifth floor. The Lemonnier Library contains about 27,000 vol-
umes, not to mention miscellaneous objects of interest gathered
from all parts of the United States and many parts of the world.
In the Law Library are several hundred volumes, including the
leading text-books. From three to four wide oaken staircases
afford communication between the different floors all the way
from the first story to the top of the building; and these, sup-
plemented by several exits to the roofs of verandas and por-
ticoes, with ample means of descending safely to the ground,
remove all danger of personal injury in case, of fire. But the
fullest precautions have been taken to guard against that peril.
With a watchman constantly on duty, water on each floor, and
hose at hand, there is absolutely no danger of fire. The halls
throughout the building are wide, high, and spacious. The many
angles which distinguish the building were planned and con-
structed in accordance with the prevailing style of architecture
at Notre Dame, which is that known as the modern Gothic. These
angles serve to give great strength and solidity to the entire
building, rendering it secure against the fury of wind and storm.
Just east of it is the magnificent new
Music Hall.—This is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and
over 100 in height. The first floor is dividfed into recreation and
reading rooms, the north end being for the Juniors and the south
for the Seniors. These rooms are supplied, according to their
respective uses, with newspapers, periodicals, bicycles, billiard-
tables, base-ball and boat-club uniforms, etc. The second and
third floors at the north end are appropriately divided into music
rooms, and instrumental music of all kinds is there taught. The
exhibition hall occupies the remainder of the building. In it are
given the more formal lectures, as well as concerts and dramatic
entertainments. Fully furnished with the scenes, accessories and
decorations appropriate to such uses, and capable of accommo-
dating over 1,200 persons, it ranks as one of the largest and most
attractive halls of the kind in the country.
Science Hall.—The corner-stone of this imposing edifice
was laid by Bishop Watterson, of Columbus, in 1883. Though
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
not fully finished, work upon it is rapidly progressing, and
several of the class-rooms have been in use for months by stu-
dents of the Scientific Course. The other parts of the building
will be thrown open to the students at the re-opening of the
classes in September. It is situated a few steps south of Music
Hall. The dimensions are 104x140 feet, and the height three
stories, or about 75 feet. The Seniors' campus, or play-ground,
a level tract containing about ten acres, lies south-east of it.
Northeast of it is
The Gymnasium, which measures 160 feet in length and 45 in
width, and is two stories in height. It is abundantly supplied
with swings, turning-poles, horizontal bars, and other things cal-
culated to inspire a taste for gymnastic exercises. The north
half is for the use of the Juniors, whose campus surrounds it,
while the south half is set apart for the Seniors. Just north of
the Gymnasium and Music Hall is St. Edward’s Park, and on
the north side of this, facing south, is the noted
St. Edward’s Hall, a building four stories high, and 100 feet
in length, by 50 in width. This is for the exclusive use of
pupils under 13 years of age It is entirely separate from the
University, though under the same general management. The
building is new, and lacks none of the appointments suggested
by experience as useful or desirable. It is appropriately divided
into study-halls, class-rooms, society rooms, dormitories, etc.
The recreation hall is just east of it, while further east and north
of it lies the play-ground. The pupils are under the immediate
direction of competent and experienced teachers—Sisters of the
Congregation of the Holy Cross.
The Infirmary adjoins St. Edward’s Hall on the west. In di-
mensions it is 100x45 and three stories high. The General
Office occupies a portion of the first floor. The rooms on the
floor above are kept in readiness for the reception of students
who at any time become indisposed. The regular physician of the
University and the Sisters in charge minister to them.
The Church stands a little west and south of the main build-
ing. It is generally regarded as one of the most symmetrical
and beautiful church edifices in the country. In size it is
250x120 feet, and about 125 feet from the ground to the apex
of the roof. Richly ornamented with paintings, statuary, altar
accessories, architectural devices, etc., hours may profitably be
given to the examination and study of the multitudinous objects
of interest and beauty in which it abounds. In its tower is one
of the largest bells on the American continent.
PROSPECTUS.
i3
The Steam Printing Office is just north of the main build-
ing. It contains two or three large power presses, a folding
machine, a mailing department, two composing rooms, and all
the accessories of a first class printing establishment. The
Ave Maria and the Scholastic, two well-known and deservedly
popular weekly publications, are there printed. Between it and
the Infirmary is
The Boiler House, from which rises the great chimney so
conspicuous in the vicinity. This building is provided with
double furnaces of the largest size—furnaces that sometimes
consume 35 tons of coal in a day. It has, too, a full supply of
engines and other machinery. On ihe second floor are bath-
rooms for the students.
A regularly established United States post-office is situated on
the University grounds, a short distance from the main building.
It is particularly intended for the accommodation of the Univer-
sity and St. Mary’s Academy. But there are too many build-
ings at Notre Dame to receive notice in this connection. In-
deed so numerous are they that, if brought close together, they
would cover at least four or five acres of ground. And never-
thdess buildinggoes steadily forward, and great improvements
are made every year.
Surroundings.
The University is situated about a mile and a half north of the
flourishing city of South Bend, Ind., and about eight miles south
of Niles, Mich. It is surrounded by a fertile and prosperous
farming country. And, yet, by reason of its proximity to South
Bend, it combines the conveniences and accommodations of city
life with the salutary isolation, wholesome climate, and many
natural beauties of the country. A great broad avenue runs
directly south from the University for a mile or more, and on
both sides for half the distance it is lined with shade trees.
North and west of the University lie two beautiful lakes—St.
Joseph’s and St. Mary’s. The area of the former is but a little
less than 23 “acres, while that of the latter is about 24 acres.
The ground slopes picturesquely down to these lakes, and pleas-
ant walks along the shores almost surround them. On the higher
ground, above the walks and overlooking the lakes, are magni-
ficent groves of oak, hickory, sycamore, and other varieties of
hard timber. St. Joseph River, swift of current and tortuous of
channel, swee-ps grandly past the University grounds on the
i4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
west. The scenery along its steep and timber-lined banks is
bold, wild, romantic.
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position almost central with reference
to the most important cities of the Mississippi Valley. The rail-
roads running directly to South Bend are the Lake Shore and
Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk, the Vandalia Line, and
the Michigan Central. The road last named is connected with
South Bend by a lateral line which runs south from Niles, Mich.,
and passes through the University grounds. Omnibuses, and
other conveyances, by which visitors can expeditiously reach
Notre Dame, may be found on the arrival of trains at the stations
of the roads indicated.
(Discipline.
The regulations to maintain discipline are sufficiently liberal
to meet the reasonable expectations of all who try to conduct
themselves as gentlemen. To these the rules are easy of ob-
servance. And students who do not try so to conduct them-
selves soon find it advisable to withdraw from the College.
There is probably no great educational institution in the coun-
try in which students become acquainted with one another more
intimately than at Notre Dame. And it could hardly be other-
wise, considering that they are brought, in connection with their
several duties, into daily, if not hourly, contact. This fact, too,
serves to emphasize the importance of requiring compliance with
regulations calculated to render them courteous, upright, honor-
able, pure in expression, respectful to religion, and emulous to
excel in their several studies.
They are required to rise at the same hour in the morning,
and they dine at the same hours during the day. All retire not
later than 9.30 o’clock p. m., and the signal for rising is given at
5.30 o’clock a. m. At proper times, too, they are expected to
take necessary out-door exercise.
While persons of all religious denominations are admitted to
participation in the privileges of the University, nevertheless it
is strictly a Catholic institution; and the students are required to
attend divine service at stated times, as on Sundays and holydays.
Persons who have noted with what rigor pupils in the various
PROSPECTUS.	15
sectarian, institutions are obliged to participate in daily worship,
or “chapel exercises,” can certainly not object to the discipline
in this regard which obtains at Notre Dame.
Other regulations, which time has sanctioned as salutary, may
be summarized as follows : 1. No branch of study shall be dis-
continued without permission of the Director of Studies. 2. No
student shall leave the University grounds without permission
of the President or Vice President, or the person delegated to
represent them. 3. The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, ex-
cept to such students of the Senior Department as receive from
their parents written permission to use it. 4. The use of intox-
icating liquors is absolutely prohibited under all circumstances.
5. Any person who injures the property of the University must
make compensation for the same. 6. To guard against clandes-
tine and improper correspondence, the President reserves the
right to supervise letters to or from students. 7. Books, period-
icals and newspapers are subject to the approval of the Director
of Studies.
General Remarks.
Neither pains nor expense has been spared to secure the
services of able, experienced and gentlemanly professors, and the
authorities of the University have reason to believe that their
efforts in this direction have been attended with results particu-
larly gratifying. It may, too, be confidently stated that there is no
educational institution in the Union that affords students more
time for study or better opportunity to acquire a sound and com-
prehensive education than Notre Dame offers. Its comparative
isolation insures immunity from distractions of every kind. So-
ciety throws no allurements in the wray of the student to tempt
him from his duties. Association with persons of depraved
tastes and bad habits is necessarily avoided. The surroundings
are favorable to study, and the student must learn. Even the
common pride of wholesome emulation compels him to do so.
But, above all, the course of life pursued under the salutary dis-
cipline in force can hardly fail to establish firmness of character
and habits that go to form a moral, temperate, honorable and
conscientious man.
Students are classified according to age as Seniors, Juniors
and Minims. The Seniors range in age from 17 years upward.
Their dormitories, study-hall, refectory, lavatories, etc., are in
the east half of the University. The Juniors, whose ages range
i6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
from 13 to 17, occupy the west portion of it. The Minims
have a building exclusively to themselves. The three depart-
ments to which students are thus assigned, are entirely separate
from one another. Seniors and Juniors are seldom brought to-
gether, except in a few classes of the Collegiate Course. The
Minims have no direct intercourse with the students of the other
departments. There are ample accommodations for five hundred
resident students at the University. The ventilation is excep-
tionally good. Scrupulous cleanliness prevails everywhere.
The fare is abundant in quantity, varied in quality, and always
wholesome. The class-rooms are large and well-lighted, as are
also the rooms used by the literary, debating, dramatic, and
other societies. The societies devoted more particularly to
the cultivation of music and the drama have always been
very popular, and many of their members have reached a
higher degree of proficiency than mere amateurs are expected
to attain. This is largely due to the fact that they are aided
and stimulated by the sedulous co-operation and encourage-
ment of professors well qualified to give instruction m music
and the drama. Then, too, there are societies specially intended
to promote the interests of religion and lead to a well-founded
knowledge of Christian doctrine. By means of essays and de-
bates great readiness in speaking, as well as felicity in the ex-
pression of thought, is attained by many members of the societies.
The students of the different departments are under the super-
vision of their respective prefects and professors; and, while they
enjoy all the freedom compatible with the requirements of good
order, they are firmly held to an observance of the courtesies and
manners recognized by gentlemen m their intercourse with
one another. But there is very little occasion for the exercise
of rigor, as the students of Notre Dame come from homes in
which they have been brought up under the salutary influence
of careful and proper training. Having been taught to observe
the manners that distinguish honorable young men, it is an im-
portant aim of the discipline in force at Notre Dame to confirm
them in such manners, and to make them thorough gentlemen. .
/	00
EXPENSES.
PAYABLE IJST JL2D
Matriculation Fee, -	-	-	■	$	5 00
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION,
(Latin, Greek, and Modern Languages in-
cluded,) Washing and Mending of Linens,
per Session, -	-	-	-	- I 50 00
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of Septem-
ber; the second on the first of February.
Ab money will be refunded unless students have been dis-
missed, or -withdrawn at the request of the College authorities.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $io; Scientific Course,
$io; Commercial Course, $5. Law Course, $10.
Students who spend the Summer Vacation at the Uni~
versity are charged, extra, $40.
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned,
per session:
Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano, and Use of Instru-
ment, .	.	_	-	$22 50
Lessons on Violin, -	-	-	12 5°
( General Prin-
Vocal Lessons I ciples, -	-	5 00
( Vocal Culture, 15 00
Elocution—Special Course, -	5 00
Qualitative Chemical Analysis
student.
Use of Library,	-	-	-	$ 1	00
Artistic Drawing, -	-	- 10 00
Telegraphy, -	-	-	-	10	00
Typewriting—Full Course,	5	00
Phonography, -	-	-	10	00
Use of Philosophical and Chem-
ical Apparatus, -	- ’ 5 00
Oil Painting, -	-	-	- 15 00
taken at the expense of the
Studies.
--0---
Preparatory Department.
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the
Classical or Scientific Course. Students who have completed the
course receive a diploma admitting them to membership in the
Freshman Class. Those entering the department arc expected to
be able to read and write, besides having an elementary knowledge
ofi Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—As far as the end of Regular Conjugations.
—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.
—Harkness.
3	Historia Sacra.
II.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geog-
raphy of the United States, including Outlines of Physical
Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Sadlier.
5	Penmanship.
HL—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Progressive Practical
Arithmetic.—Robinson.
2 The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections I and II.
—Brooks.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
i9
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
I
2
3
i
2
3
4
5
i
2
I
2
3
Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology com-
pleted.—Harkness.
Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
Il__ENGLISH.
Grammar—Etymology Completed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harvey.
Letter Writing.
Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa,
including outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.
—Sadlier.
Penmanship.
HI—MATHEMATICS.
Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive), to Compound Numbers
(exclusive), Progressive Practical Arithmetic.—Robinson.
The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Section III_Brooks.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I—LATIN.
Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harkness.
Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to
Latin Composition.—Harkness.
Roman History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I
2
I
2
3
i
2
I
2
3
i
2
3
4
i
2
3
i
2
3
II	.—GREEK.
Grammar—From beginning to the Verb.— Goodwin.
Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons — Greek Ollendorf.—Kendrick.
III	.—ENGLISH.
Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
Letter Writing.
Penmanship.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Higher
Arithmetic.—Robinson.
The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections IV and V.
—Brooks.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
Exercises—Second Part Completed—Introduction to Latin Com-
position.—Harkness.
Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II	.—GREEK.
Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.— Goodwin.
Exercises—From 26th to 61st Lesson.— Greek Ollendorf.
—Kendrick.
Jacobs’ Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.— Cassirly.
Gospel of St.John—Selections by the Teacher.
III	.—ENGLISH.
Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.
—Harvey.
Letter Writing.
Penmanship.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
Arithmetic—From Percentage to Involution—Higher Arith-
metic.—Robinson.
The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Section VI.—Brooks.
Algebra (begun)—to Simple Equations—University Algebra.
—Robinson.

PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i St. Ambrose—Extracts.
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness,
4	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Ha.rkness.
IL—GREEK.
i Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.
— Goodwin,
2	, Exercises—Twenty-Five Exercises, First Greek Book.
—Spencer’s Arnold,
3	Anabasis—First Book.
III.—ENGLISH.
i General Study of Syntax.—Harvey and Brown.
2	Exercises—Composition.
3	Ancient History—To the Partition of Alexander’s Empire.
—Fredet,
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i	Arithmetic—From Involution to the End.—Robinson.	•
2	The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections VII and VIII.
—Brooks.
3	Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive),
University Algebra.—Robinson.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.
2	Cassar—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Third Part. — Introduction to Latin Composition
Completed.—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
I Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.— Good-win.
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.
—Spenced s Arnold.
3	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.
Harvey and Brown.
-z Ancient History—From the Partition of Alexander’s Empire to
the End.—Fredet.
IV—MATHEMATICS.
1 Algebra—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Al-
gebra.—Bobins on.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a
strict examination in all the Studies of the three Preparatory Years,
unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty and pro-
nounced satisfactory.
COLLEGIATE DEPARTMENT.
SUBDIVISIONS:
I. Classical Course. 11. Scientific Course.
Collegiate Department.
---------o-
L CLASSICAL COURSE.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Lactantius—De opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
2	Virgil—Books I and II of AEneid.
3	Sallust—Catiline.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.— Casserlv.
$ Exercises—Prose Composition.
II.—GREEK.
I Grammar—Syntax.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
3	Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Narrative Writ-
ing.—Hart.
z Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
I Algebra—(completed)—From Series to the End—University
Algebra.—Robinson.
2 Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Virgil—Books V and VI of AEneid—Selections from Bucolics
and Georgies.
2	Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—Rules Completed.— Casserly.
II—GREEK.
i	Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
2	St.John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
3	Cyropsedia—First Book.

26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise— Greek Prose Composi-
tion.—Spencer's Arnold.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the End, with Review
of Composition—Narrative and Descriptive Writing.—hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the.End.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometrv—Plane Geometrv (Completed)-—Solid, —hoomis.
01 co
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
L—LATIN.
1 Ovid—Books I and XIII of Metamorphoses.
Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Archias.
Exercises—Prose Composition.
4 Prosody—From Rules to Versification.— Casserly.
IL—GREEK.
1	St. Gregory— Machabees.
2	Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
III.—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature—Essays.—Hart.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Conic Sections—Review.—Loomis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Physiology—Structure and Mechanism of the Human
Body, and Nutrition.—Huxley and Voumaus.
VI.—HISTORY.
1 History of England.—JBttrkds Lingard.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	27
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN;
1	St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
2	Horace—Odes—Ars Poetica.
3	Cicero—De Senectute.
4	Exercises—Selected.	.
5	Prosody.— Casserly.
6	Verses.
H—GREEK.
1	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucydides—First Book.	,
3	Exercises—Selected.
HI.—ENGLISH.
1 English Literature (continued)—Essays.—Hart.
IV—MATHEMATICS.
1 Trigonometry—The entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
V—NATURAL SCIENCES.
t Human Physiology—Nervous System and Hygiene.—Huxley
and Lottmans.
VI—HISTORY.
1	History of England.—Burke, s Lingard.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—LATIN.
1	Livy—Two Books.
2	Horace—Satires and Epistles.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessem.
II._GREEK.
1	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
3	Homer—Odyssey.
4	Exercises—Selected.
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—ENGLISH.
i Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
2 Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hefiburn.
IV—PHILOSOPHY.
I Logic.—San Severino.
V—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i	Botany—Structural Botany.
VI—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.
SECOND SESSION.
I—LATIN.
I	Tacitus—Germania and Ao-ricola.
o
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
II—GREEK.
i	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
2	EEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
4	Greek Anticpiities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
HI—ENGLISH.
i	Elocution.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV—PHILOSOPHY.
i Ontology and Psychology.—San Severino.
V—NATURAL SCIENCES. ,
i Botany—Systematic Botany.— Gray.
VI—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2 Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	29
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintillian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
IL—GREEK.
1	Plato—Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
Ill—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Theodicy and Ethics.— Jouin.
2	Dissertation.
IV—HISTORY.
1 Philosophy of History.
V—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological.—Dana.
VI—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I—LATIN.
1	Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2	Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
II—GREEK.
1	Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Aristophanes—Selections.
4	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by Professor.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Paleontology.—Dana.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Astronomy—from the Eclipses to the End.—Loomis.
N. B.—During the four years of this course, students have an
opportunity of attending Lectures on Historical, Literary, Philo-
sophical and Scientific subjects.
Elective Studies.
Commercial—Book-keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing (Figure, Landscape, Mechanical
and Architectural).
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying.
Dogma.
II.	SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
-----Q-----
Note.— preparatory studies are the same as for the Clas-
sical Cou-rse^ except that Latin or Greek may be replaced by one
of the Modern Languages.
' FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2 Ancient History—To Partition of Alexander’s Empire.—Fredet.
3 Ancient Geography—To correspond with the subject matter of
History. —Mitchell.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Algebra—(Completed) From Series (inclusive) to the end.—
University Algebra.—Robinson.	•
2	Geometry—Plane Geometry— Five Books.—Loomis.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy and Physiology—Structure and Mechanism
of the Fluman Body—Nutrition.—Mivart and Huxley.
2	Botany—Structural Botany.— Gray.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.	• ‘
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek*—(See Course of
Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
i Linear Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of
Composition.—Essays.—Hart.
* Students preferring to take Latin or Greek will follow Ihe regular grades
of the Classical Course.
32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
3 Ancient History—From the Founding of the City of Rome to
the end.— Fredet.
3 Ancient Geography—To correspond with subject matter of His-
tory. —Mitchell.
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed), Geometry of Space
(Solid and Spherical)—Loomis.
IIL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy and Physiology—Nervous System and Hy-
giene—Mivart and Huxley.
2> Botany—Systematic Botany.— Gray.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
I French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V—DRAWING.
i Architectural Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i English Literature—Entire Subject.—Hart.
?, Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
3 Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
i Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geometry—(Conic Sections.)—Loomis.
2 Zoology—Structural Zoology.— Orton.
IV	.—LANG U AGE S.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
i Machine Drawing.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
I
2
3
I
I
2
I
I
I
2
I
2
SECOND SESSION.
.	I.—ENGLISH.
English Literature—(continued).—Hart.
Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.— Gillespie.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
Zoology—Systematic Zoology.— Orton.
Biology.—Huxley and Martin.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V.—DRAWING.
Free Hand Drawing.	’
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Proper-
j	ties of Minerals.— Collins.
i
J	IV.—LANGUAGES.
£
J i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
{	V.—DRAWING.
£
I Theory—Isometry.— Warren's Plane Projection.
*	2 Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and
;	Sepia.
SECOND SESSION.
L—MATHEMATICS.
i	General Geometry and Calculus.
2	Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2 Chemistry—(Elementary)—Inorganic Chemistry.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
— Collins.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
V	.—DRAWING.
i Theory—Perspective.
2 Practice—Exercises in the use of Water Colors.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
35
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i	Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
2	Geodesy—Field Practice.—Henck.
3	Mechanics—Statics.—Smith.
II	.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Logic and General Metaphysics.—Hill.
III	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i General Physics.
2 Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Dana.
V	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).
VI	.—DRAWING.
i	Theory—Aerial Perspective and Decorative Art.
2	Practice—Use of Water Colors, etc.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i	Shades and Shadows.—Davies.
2	. Geodesy.
3	Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydiostatics, Hydrodynamics.
—Smith.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
i	Special Metaphysics—Lectures by the Professor.
2	Ethics.—Hill.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—HISTORY.
i Philosophy of History.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i General Physics.
2 Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Paleontology.—Leconte,
VI.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Latin—(See Course of Modern Languages).*
ELECTIVE STUDIES.
Languages.—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts.—
Painting, Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music.—Vocal and
Instrumental. Dogma. Ecclesiastical History.
Any Student in this Course is at liberty to take any of these
Studies at any period of his Course, provided he can do so consist-
ently with his regular studies. In addition to the regular recita-
tions and practical illustrations in the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Lectures are given throughout the Course by the Professors.
* It must be remembered that the Language which is taken up at the begin-
ning of the Freshman Year, must be continued to the end of the Course,
or till satisfactorily known.
SPECIAL COURSES:
COMPRISING
Law, Civil Engineering, the Commercial
Course, Modern Languages.
Special Courses.
--o--
I. LAW.
Numerous changes have recently been made in this Department.
The regular course has been extended to a period of three years ;
the standard of studies has been raised to the most approved plane,
and the Lecture system has been substituted for the compulsory
use of text-books. It may now be confidently claimed that no
Law School in the country offers superior facilities for acquiring a
thorough and practical knowledge of the Law. Students of the
Law Department pass through a course that qualifies them
to undergo the most searching examination for admission to the
Bar in any part of the Union. No special preparation is requisite
for matriculation. Any person who is 17 years of age, and has a
fair English education, is eligible. Young men may enter the
Department as students at any time during the year; though, of
course, it is more desirable to do so at the beginning of a session.
The diploma admits, without examination, to the Bar of Indiana,
subject to the Constitutional provision referred to in the following
extract from a letter recently received from the Clerk of the
Supreme Court:	*
“ I am directed by the Chief Justice to say that all graduates [of the Law De-
partment of the University of Notre Dame] will be admitted, without an exam-
ination, upon proper motion, at any time when the Court is in Session, subject,
of course, to the Constitutional provision that applicants for admission shall be
voters in the State of Indiana.”
Methods of Instruction.
Instruction is given by means of daily Lectures, with accompany-
ing examinations, and the trial from week to week of moot-court
cases. The order of procedure in these cases corresponds as closely
as practicable to that followed in the trial of actual cases and suits
in the regular courts of law and equity. The Lectures embrace
the various subjects, and deal with all the leading topics of Inter-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
national, Constitutional, Commercial, Maritime and Criminal Law,
as well as with Medical Jurisprudence, Law and Equity Pleadings,
Practice, Evidence, etc.
Each candidate for a degree is required to prepare and submit to
the Faculty a thesis of at least 30 folio pages upon some legal subject,
the selection of which is left to himself. This should be submitted
about a month before graduation, and it must be satisfactory both in
substance and manner of treatment. The elementary text-books
may be read collaterally with the Lectures, though these are more
comprehensive than in other Law Schools, and cover all subjects
likely to arise in connection either with actual practice or the most
searching examination. They deal with all the living branches of the
Law, and the student who writes full notes of them, and diligently
studies the same, acquires a complete and reliable knowledge of its
principles. The decisions of the courts are based upon these prin-
ciples, and it is the aim of the course of instruction at Notre Dame
to impress them upon the mind in so thorough a manner that they
are not likely ever to be forgotten. Their relations to one another
are pointed out, the growth of subordinate principles from them is
explained, and their application to actual or hypothetical cases
emphasizes the important office they serve in furnishing a key to
complicated questions of law and equity.
While the Lectures impart as general a knowledge of the Law as
students require for admission to the Bar and practice in the courts,
it is nevertheless deemed advisable to urge them to pursue collater-
ally a course of reading. The works here named are recognized
and recommended as among the most serviceable and popular of
Standard Law (Books:
Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries, Walker’s American Law,
Reeve’s or Schouler’s Domestic Relations, Angell and Ames on
Corporations, Parsons on Contracts, Williams or Washburn on
Real Property, Story on Agency, Stephen’s or Gould’s Pleading,
Greenleaf on Evidence, Edwards or Story on Bailments, Parsons on
Bills, Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, Lindley or Parsons on
Partnership, Bishop on Marriage and Divorce, Bishop on Criminal
Law, Willard’s Equity, Story’s Equity Pleadings, Cooley or
LAW COURSE.
41
Addison on Torts, Cooley on Taxation, Cooley’s Constitutional
Limitations, Schouler’s Personal Property, Redfield on Wills,
Wheaton’s International Law, Story’s Conflict of Laws, Benjamin
on Sales, Parsons’ Maritime Law, Dillon on Municipal Corporations,
Sedgwick on the Measure of Damages, Freeman on Judgments,
Freeman on Executions, Bouvier’s Law Dictionary, Taylor’s Med-
ical Jurisprudence, Ewell’s Evans on Agency, Perry on Trusts,
Benjamin’s Chalmers Digest—Bills, Notes and Checks, etc.
All these books may be made available in actual practice, and
consequently students need incur no special loss in purchasing as
many of them as they can find time to read. However, this is a
matter which, to a great extent, is left optional with them-
selves. It is not regarded as essential to read in connection
with the Lectures more than a few of the works indicated in the
preceding list. The Lectures are prepared with reference to this
fact; and one of the objects in view in so preparing them is to
place at a minimum figure
The Expenses
incident to pursuing the study of Law at Notre Dame. It does not
admit of doubt that many bright and worthy young men in different
parts of the country are deterred from gratifying a cherished ambition
to engage in the study of Law by the apprehension that they cannot
meet the expenses necessarily incident to doing so. They suppose
that the single item of books demands an outlay of from $150 to
$300. But that supposition is erroneous. The study of Law can
be pursued at Notre Dame without any noteworthy expense, aside
from what is voluntarily incurred. In that particular, there is
probably no university in the country that surpasses this in
the inducements offered to students. The Law Library of the
University, which contains all the standard text-books, as well as
the Reports of Indiana, is free and open at all reasonable hours to
the students of this Department. The Law Lecture room is scru-
pulously neat, well lighted, and supplied with desks for all the
students. It is one of the best, most commodious and most comfort-
able rooms in the main building. While the incidental expenses are
merely nominal, the accommodations, which include board, lodg-
ing, washing, etc., are exceflent in all respects; and the course of
42	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
study covers a period of ten months in the year. In other well-
known institutions the annual duration of the professional courses
is from six to nine months. But it is hardly necessary to indicate
more particularly in this connection the special advantages offered
to students of the Law Department.
The Course of Study.
The Law Course covers a period of three years. But in cases
where students are entitled to advanced standing, by reason of
previous study, or where they daily attend two Lectures, they may
be graduated in two years, providing they satisfactorily acquit
themselves in the final examination. The authorities have been
actuated by commendable motives in extending the Law Course
to three years. In the first place, they recognize that the standing
of the professions has been lowered by a too indiscriminate admis-
sion to them of persons of limited education. And they are aware
that to such persons, in mostpaes, a professional life offers numerous
disappointments, and but few laurels. It frequently proves to be a
life of barren results, and the fact is usually discovered too late to
admit of being- effectually remedied. Having made their choice,
they find themselves, as a rule, subject to circumstances that forbid
a change of occupation. It is also recognized that, generally
speaking, young men do not make amends for defects in their ed-
ucation after taking upon themselves the stern duties of practical
life and becoming involved in the engrossing cares and ceaseless
activities of business. To guard against such disappointments and
mistakes, it is sought to make graduation in this Department a
sufficient test of the education and professional qualifications of the
student to assure him that he is making a proper choice, and to as-
sure the profession that he may be admitted to its ranks without
detracting from its dignity or compromising its honor.
With a view, therefore, to supplying young men with a good
general education, as well as with thorough professional knowledge,
all the departments of the University are open to them. With-
out extra expense, they may enter the classes and pursue the
studies of the Scientific and Classical courses, and be graduated in
the same, if they so desire. As they find time and have inclination,
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
43
they may study Mathematics, the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Literature, Ancient and Modern Languages, etc., in connection
with the Law. And thus the authorities of the University seek to
meet the most exacting expectations of its friends, and the public
generally, by assuring to students of this Department not only
qualifications of a high order in their profession, but also a sound
general education.
Such are some of the considerations that have actuated the au-
thorities to extend the Law Course to a period of three years.
Students of this course mingle with the other students of the Uni-
versity, and, without distinction, have the same advantages, privi-
leges and accommodations. They are likewise subject to the same
rules of discipline. These rules have been adopted with reference
to the acknowledged fact that a high moral standard is an import-
ant requisite to an honorable and successful career. They are
calculated to shape the lives of students in accordance with such
standard, and inculcate, at the same time, a wholesome tone of
manly dignity and honor, not to mention a just appreciation of
the claims of social and professional ethics.

II.—CIVIL ENGINEERING.
O ■	'
Candidates for admission into this Course must exhibit proof of
proficiency in the art of Drawing as laid down in the Scientific
■Course, and must pass a thorough examination, such as is re-
quired of Scientific graduates, in Chemistry, Physics, Geology,
Mineralogy, and in the several branches of Pure and Mixed
Mathematics. The Course of Civil Engineering can then be
completed in one year, as follows :	•
FIRST SESSION.
L—DRAWING.
i Theory—Shades, Shadows, etc.—Advanced Course in Perspec-
tive.
2 Practice—Topographical Drawing.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
I -Civil Engineering—(Begun).—Mahan.
z Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
,$ Pure Mathematics—Calculus Reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—DRAWING.
i Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone-
Cutting.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
i Civil Engineering—Concluded.—Mahan.
2	Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
3	Hydraulics.
III.—COMMERCIAL COURSE.
This Course requires two years* study for graduation: it includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United States His- i
tory, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-keeping, and Com-
mercial Law,—in other words, all' the branches of a complete
business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, especially
the great West in which we live, this Course is the most practical,
and one of the most important that an educational institution can ?
afford.	:
Those, therefore, who have not the time or the means to take a
complete College Course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan	;
of study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such	J
studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The training
resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to j
the student.	'	;
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received i
the most careful attention from the officers and Commercial Fac- i
ulty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the graduates	j
of this Course a more complete business training than can be	!
obtained in any purely commercial college. Believing that a busi-	;
ness education includes something more than a mere knowledge of	:
Book-keeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few
weeks, the authorities have extended this course over two years,
the shortest time in which the studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a student desire during this period
to pursue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for	;
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so.. General History	'
and Linear Drawing are especially recommended to> the students ’
of this course. They will also in the future have the opportunity i
of attending an elementary course of the Physical and Natural '
Sciences. Many commercial students find it also- to their ad- i
vantage to take up the study of German or French, for which
there are the amplest facilities. A talented and studious young
46	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
man may thus in the course of two years find himself in possession
of a most valuable practical education, which will fit him to take
his place in the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
BOTH SESSIONS.
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Year Preparatory of Clas-
sical Course.
3	Geography—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate Preparatory
Course (Eclectic Series). *
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate
Preparatory Course.—Hassard.
$ Reading and Orthography.
6 Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-Keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.
5	Penmanship.
SECOND SESSION
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—(Completed)—As in 2d Session of Second
Year Preparatory.
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as 2d Session of Second Yeai- Preparatory in
Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.
5	Commercial Law.
6	Penmanship.
Optional Studies.—Phonography, Telegraphy, Type-Writing, General
History, and Linear Drawing.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:
—Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by
Double Entry; ist Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of
Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, On account of others;
3d Series, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th
Series, Importing and Exporting on private account, on account
MODERN LANGUAGES.	47	\
of others, and account of ourselves and others in company; 5th ;
Series, Receiving and forwarding Merchandise, the Management >
and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling, Re-
mitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of ■
Exchange, Banking — Private and Joint Stock — Steamboating, ‘
Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’ .
Accounts. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Law. Partic- :
ular attention is paid to the explanation of the Law of Negotiable .
Paper.	■
IV.—MODERN LANGUAGES.
GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—One Hundred Exercises.
2	Exercises in Reading, Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—From the 100th to the 200th
Exercise. '
2	Exerciseb in Reading, and Written Translations.	.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Second German Book.
2	German Reader.
3	Written Exercises—daily.
48	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
i Ahn’s Second German Book—To the end.
2	German Reader—Continued.
3	Written Exercises—daily.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i	Ahn’s Third German Book—75 Exercises.
2	Leseiibungen und Erklarung ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s Lesebuch,
er st er Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik—die Formenlehre.
4	Taglich eine Schriftliche Aufgabe.
SEC ONE SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—To the End.
2	Bone’s Lesebuch—Fortsetzung.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Formenlehre.
4	Taglich eine Schriftliche Aufgabe.
FOURTH YEAR.
‘	FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Sprachliche und sachliche Erklarung ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s Lese-
buch, zweiter Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik—die Satzlehre.
4	Aufsatzlehre.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the End.
2	Lesen, Erklaren und Declamiren aus Bone’s Lesebuch, zweiter Theil.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Satzlehre.
4	Aufsatzlehre, und Einleitung zur deutschen Literatur.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
MODERN LANGUAGES.	49
FRENCH.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fiva’s elementary French Reader—Twenty Pages.
3	Orthography.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty-nine Lessons — Regular
V jrbs.
2	De Five’s Reader—To the End.
3	Orthography.	*
SECOND YEAS.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty-five Lessons, and from page 261 to page
357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet's Literature.
3	Letter-Writing.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to the end of First Part, from
page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition. 1
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	. Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Etymology.
2	Litterature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Telemaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other Modern Lan-
guages—especially the Spanish, a knowledge of which is now becoming so useful to
students from the Southern and South-western States and Territories.
MISCELLANEOUS.
•GgS' ‘psiQldwog -egg' ‘P^l 9Uo;s-jqujo3 ■qlubq ‘tivh 39N3I0S
Miscellaneous.
-----o-----
(Post-Graduate Course.
The Students in this Course occupy themselves with Philoso-
phy, History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law,
Medicine, and Civil Engineering are optional studies of the Course.
Civil Engineering.
The Course of Civil Engineering has been established of late
years, and it affords advanced students the opportunity of fitting
themselves for the practice of this eminent profession.
The (Department of (Physical and .Natural Sciences.
Notre Dame has always given special attention to the cultivation
of the Physical and Natural Sciences, but during the past few
years extra efforts have been made in this direction, with a view of
affording to her students all the facilities and advantages that may
be found elsewhere. A large and commodious building, in the
Romanesque style, known as “ Science Hall,” has been erected for
this purpose, and it is the intention of the authorities to make it as
perfect in all its appointments as any similar institution in the
country. It is one hundred and thirty-one feet long by one hun-
dred and four feet deep, and proportionally high. There are up-
wards of twenty-five spacious, well-lighted and well ventilated
rooms in the building, nearly all of which are designed either as
lecture rooms or laboratories for the various branches of exper-
imental science.
The building has been carefully planned for the purpose for
which it is to be used, and embodies in its construction all the im-
provements 'and conveniences to be found in the most approved
scientific structures of this country and Europe. The ground plans
given herewith will show the size and general arrangement of the
various rooms, and their connection with the Museum proper.
54	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Special attention has been given to make the building convenient
both for professor and student. The laboratories, lecture-rooms
and cabinets are so connected with each other, and with the grand
apartments set aside for the museum, that specimens and apparatus
are always at hand when desired, and where they can be used.
Ground-Plan (Science Hall). Basement.
A.—Store Room.	G. — Room for Dynamo-electric Ma-
B.—Work Shop.	chines.
C.—Metallurgical Lab 'ratory.	H.—Engine Room.
D.—Boiler Room.	I, J, K, L, M,—Laboratories for Special
E, F. — Laboratories of Mechanical Work.
Engineering.
The students of Natural History have their specimens systematic-
ally arranged in rooms adjoining their laboratories, whilst the stu-
dents of Chemistry and Physics have their cabinets as conveniently
£6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
posal of the student, and he is expected to verify, by observation
and experiment, what has not been experimentally illustrated in
the lectures he Las attended.
In all these departments, as well as in those of Physics and
Chemistry, special stress will be laid on practical work, and a stu-
dent’s proficiency will be estimated by his record of observation
and experiment in fbe laboratorv and workshop.
Ground-Plan (Science Hall). 2d Floor.
A, B, C, D, E, F.—Museum.
G.—Biological Laboratorv.
H.—Biological Lecture Room.
I. — Geological and
Lecture Room.
J. — Geological and
Laboratory.
Mineralogical
Mineralogical
In the study of Botany, Zoology, and Physiology, each student
is provided with a microscope and the necessary accessories, and
most of his time is spent in microscopic study, under the direction
of the professoi.
In Geology and Mineralogy the system is the same. The stu-
MISCELLANEOUS.	57
dent commences work in the laboratory at once, and thus early
becomes acquainted with the various minerals, rocks, fossils, etc.
The blowpipe, microscope, polariscope and clinometer are in con-
stant use to verify what has been learned in the lecture-room, and
to fix it on the memory.
In the department of Mechanical Engineering it is intended to
have fully equipped workshops, for wood and metals. Steam en-
gines and dynamo-electric generators, and motors of various types
and sizes will furnish the power required, and afford the student
special facilities in making experiments concerning the various
forms of energy.
A photographic laboratory is also fitted up in the building,
where the student is enabled to learn, practically and in a short
time, the art of modern Photography, and thus prepare himself
for professional work in the studio.
Rooms have likewise been set aside for Assaying and Metal-
lurgy, and it is the purpose of those in charge to leave nothing un-
done to make the work in this department compare favorably with
that accomplished in the others.
Additions of apparatus, specimens, and books for reference, are
constantly being made to the various departments, and no effort
will be spared to make “Science Hall” a recognized centre of
thorough work in genuine practical science.
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre
Dame to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of
which is so necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German Language—the classes of which are so numerously
attended—has been taught by five Professors during the past scho-
lastic year. The number of students attending the German classes
is becoming greater every year. The study of French is recom-
menied to all students of the Collegiate Course. The course of
Spanish will receive special attention in the future, and other
modern languages may be taught when required.
58
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Telegraphy; and Type= Writing.
These branches invite the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. Both departments are fully equipped for
practical work. The Telegraphic Department is superintended
by a skilful electrician, and the classes are under the personal in-
struction of an experienced operator who has seen much actual
service and held responsible positions on railroad work.
In the Type-Writing Department the machines in use are first
class Remingtons with the latest improvements. The instructor,
besides being a practical operator, also thoroughly understands the
mechanism of the Type-Writer, and is capable of adjusting and
keeping it in order.
Phono graphy} or Skort=Hand}
of which Dr. Johnson said “its usefulness is not confined to any
particular science or profession,” is of incalculable benefit in the
higher branches of education, enabling its possessor to take ver-
batim notes of lectures, etc. It-is adaptable to the English, French,
German, or Spanish languages. With a good English education
it is a profession in itself, and one not likely to be overcrowded for
years to come. First class phonographers and type-writers are
always sure of employment, and pupils in both branches here find
every facility to fit them for the highest grades of practical work.
Phonography and Type-Writing have of late come into gen-
eral use in legal and commercial work—in the court, the law office,
and the counting-room; in ■ business'houses, banks, insurance and
railroad offices, etc.,—and for first-class stenographers especially
the demand exceeds the supply. A knowledge of these useful-arts
will therefore' prove a strong recommendation for confidential and
lucrative positions.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame
in the facilities afforded to students for acquiring proficiency in
elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises are practical,
and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety. These exercises
MISCELLANEOUS.
are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is peculiarly adapted for the
purpose, being eligibly situated, large, and elegantly furnished.
The exercises constitute an important part in the studies of young
men who strive to cultivate, with success, literature, oratory and
the dramatic art. The approved methods of stimulating and de-
veloping the natural elocutionary powers are called into requisition
as occasions seem to warrant. And to this end the drama receives
a due share of attention. From time to time an appropriate tra-
gedy or comedy is rendered by students, on the stage of the new
Music Hall, with all the customary accessories and appointments
used in connection with dramatic performances. Four public ex-
hibitions are given during the year, and public literary exercises
are held seven times during the same period. An oratorical con-
test is one of the notable features marking the close of the year.
For the purpose of encouraging and stimulating students to put
forth their best efforts, premiums and gold medals are offered to
those who most distinguish themselves. When all these things are
duly considered, there need be no hesitation in repeating that “ no
educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame in the
facilities offered to students for acquiring proficiency in elocution.”
Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to prepare for the Medical profession will
find opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Stud-
ies' in this department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy, and
Surgery. . As a preparatory Course, that which is given here,
under L. Neyron, M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de Mddicine,
Lyons, leaves nothing to be desired.
(Drawing and (Painting.
The University, which is becoming every year more widely and
favorably known as an art centre, enjoys ample facilities for im-
parting instruction in this branch. It possesses a large number of
models, a fine Studio, and qualified and zealous teachers of the art.
The eminent artist, Signor Luigi Gregori, of Rome, is still in
charge of this Department.
WOT
MISCELLANEOUS.	.	61
Music.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has
able Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conser-
vatory system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent
Quartette, and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are some
of the leading features of the Musical Department.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and which
has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students during the
past few years, will receive even more careful attention in future,
and it is hoped that this branch will become every year more pop-
ular.
Leading Mo owls.
The lower floor of the new Music Hall is divided into large and
neatly furnished Reading Rooms for the benefit of the Senior and
Junior departments. These Reading Rooms are supplied with
books and periodicals from the library, and students have access to
them during the hours of recreation.
7 he Lemonnier Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers over 25,000 volumes. A Reading-room has been opened
in connection with the Library, in which the leading periodicals
of Europe and America are to be found on file. The members of
the Library Association desire to give their Alma Mater a collec- *
tion of books which can stand comparison with those possessed by
any other educational establishment of the United States; therefore
they call on the friends of the University to assist them by dona-
tions of books, pamphlets, periodicals and manuscripts. All con-
tributions should be addressed to the Librarian of the Lemonnier
Library, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana.

-----o-----
For the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen, there
has been established a Department to which the most scrupulous
attention has always been paid by the College authorities : it is
known as the Minim Department, and has ever been one of the
greatest objects ofiinterest to the Faculty as well as to all persons
visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an English education is here imparted, together with
a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French and German. Vocal
Music and Drawing form no extra charges. The pupils of this
Department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under whose
maternal and tender care they pass nearly the entire day. During
the hours of recreation, and while in the refectory and dormitory,
they are under the charge of kind and efficient Prefects.
(Discipline.
The following is the order of the day: Rising, at half-past six;
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercise in the Campus; half-past seven, study; half-
past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to twelve,
toilet; twelve, dinner, followed byrecreation; half-past one, study;
half-past three, recreation and lunch; half-past six, supper and rec-
reation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that
while the Minims devote never less than six hours a day to study,
they are never more than two hours in succession in the class-room.
The recreation and exercise in the fresh air, between each two hours
of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to their
classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the hours of
recreation, as well as in the class-room and study-hall. The pres-
ence, however, of the Prefects, is far from being a restraint on the
amusements of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Prefects to
'ON! *3 J/dVCl-3T3J.O N )
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
63
insist that their young charges shall always keep within the limits
of the strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take part in all
sports, organize games, and do everything in their power to foster
a love of healthful exercise. The play-ground consists of a fine
level, four-acre field, well supplied with turning-poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary gymnastic
apparatus. That the boys make good use of them can best be
seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably at-
tracts the notice of visitors.
Connected with the play-ground is a fine brick play-hall, 160
feet long, heated by steam. There the boys play in rainy or cold
weather. In this building is one of the finest hand-ball alleys at
Notre Dame. Adjoining the grounds is a large orchard to which
the Minims have access in proper season. They are allowed so
many privileges of a similar nature that, among the students of the
other departments, they are often pleasantly spoken of as the “ priv-
ileged class of the little college wolld.” Particular care is taken
to foster respect and affection for parents, to whom they are ex-
pected to write once a week. The Sisters preside at the toi.et;
they clean and mend the clothing, see to all the needs and to the
comfort and convenience of the Minims. Baths are taken every
Saturday. Underclothing is changed regularly twice a week.
Great care is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the
clothing be suitable for the season. As the Sisters take entire
charge of all these details, boys six years of age are received.
They are separated from the larger Minims, and enjoy all desir-
able privileges.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim Department : that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to
supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Association,
which has been established with a view to give the students a start,
as early as possible, in Elocution. The Society is in charge of one
of the Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are held once
a week, after school hours. These meetings are a source of pleas-
ure as well as of profit. The members prepare original composi-
64	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
tions, deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only .the
best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to mem-
bership. To encourage this young Literary Society a Gold Medal
is annually awarded at Commencement, for Elocution, to the most
deserving member.
General (Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much milder
than that which is suited to students more advanced in age. Re-
course is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in charge
endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing
to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose conduct and
application to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads of
Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic, a paper pub-
lished weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name mentioned in
these rolls is found to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil,
as its non-appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, again, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to all whose deportment has been unexceptionable
during that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim
immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape his
conduct with a view to receiving an “ Honor.” The greatest care
is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to in-
culcate the practice of refined manners.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording ample
accommodation for over one hundred students, is devoted to their
use. It is four stories in height, ninety-five feet long, and forty-
five wide; heated by steam, lighted by gas, supplied with hot and
cold water. The ceilings in the Study Hall, Class Rooms, and
sleeping apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large
and numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The
Study Hall commands a charming view from each of its eleven
large windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary, beautiful
pictures, choice plants and beautiful flower caskets, etc. Besides the
pleasure the Minims derive from studying in this bright, beautiful
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
65
hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by coming into- contact
with such refining objects. Fronting the building is a handsome
park, which with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers,
adds not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well as to
the happiness of the Minims.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and
others who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that while the Minims have every possible advantage to aid
them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a most
happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom as they
would under the care of their mothers.
EXPENSES
Entrance Fee, -	-	-	-	-	-	$	5 00
BOARD, TUITION, etc., per Session of Five
Months, -------	125 00
The only extra in this Department is Instrumental Music. The
charge per session for Piano lessons, and the use of the instrument,
is $12.50. The charge for Violin lessons, per session, is $6.25.
(Pupils who remain during the two Summer Vacation Months
w
are charged, extra, $40.'}
Each pupil on entering needs six shirts, 4 pairs of drawers,
6 night-shirts, 12 pocket-handkerchiefs, 6 pairs of winter stock-
ings, 6 pairs of summer stockings, 6 towels, 2 hats or caps, 2 pairs
'of boots or shoes, 2 suits of clothes for Winter, 2 suits for Summer,
combs, brushes, etc; 1 overcoat.	*
Catalogue of Students.
From September I 884, to June I 885.
Addington, Jan-ett........................Missouri.
Addington, Horace.........................Missouri.
Ancheta, J. Arthur........................New Mexico.
Arce, Crescentia..........................Mexico.
Alvarez, Francisco........................Mexico.
Akins, Wm. T..............................Illinois.
Ackerman, Daniel..........................Illinois.
Ackerman, Wm. Henry.......................Indiana.
Ackerman, John Hubert.....................Indiana.
Arnold, Benjamin..........................Illinois.
Arts, William.............................Iowa.
Austin, H. L..............................Colorado.
Ashton, Frank J...........................Illinois.
Amoretti, Eugene..........................Wyoming.
Adams, Albert M...........................Illinois.
Adams Edward..............................Illinois.
Barnard, Henry W..........................Michigan.
Browne, Albert A..........................Texas.
Becerra, Tiburtius........................Mexico
Butterfield, Wm. C........................Missouri.
Blakeslee, Harry Stout....................Illinois.
Bearss, Daniel R..........................Indiana.
Bunker, Irving............................Missouri.
Borgschulze, W. A.........................Kentucky.
Byerley, Edward...........................Indiana.
Benner, Edward J..........................Illinois.
Benner, Clarence..........................Illinois.
Baur, Joseph..............................Michigan.
Brooks, Harry E...........................Wisconsin.
Banks, Edward L...........................Ohio.
Berthelet, William T......................Wisconsin.
Barger, Eugene L..........................Iowa.
Barbabosa. Antonio........................Mexico.
Barbabosa, John...........................Mexico.
Baca, Felix.............................  Colorado.
Bustillos, Franco.........................Mexico.
Bull, John Andrew.........................Colorado.
Berry, Joseph St. Elmo....................Colorado.
Bates, J. C...............................Colorado.
Baca, Filadelfo...........................New Mexico.
Bica, Domingo E...........................New Mexico.
Baca, Francisco J.........................New Mexico.
Boos, Jacob...............................Indiana.
Burns, Michael............................Ohio.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	67
Burke, Fred. E.............................Ohio.
Burke, Vernon H............................Ohio.
Brown, Fred. L.............................Wisconsin.
Breen, J. Walter...........................Indiana.
Brown, Charles W...........................Minnesota.
Baker, Jeddie..............................Illinois.
Barke, Harry...............................New York.
Burns, Bernard.............................Indiana.
Burritt, Evart.............................Illinois.
Byrnes, Daniel.............................Minnesota.
Bloomingston, Albert.......................Illinois.
Bastable, Thomas.. .■......................Ohio.
Burns, James A.............................Indiana.
Carbajal, Pedro..........................Mexico.
Combe, Fred J............................Texas.
Combe, Charles B.........................Texas.
Combe, Frank B...........................Texas.
Casavantes, Gabriel......................Mexico.
Congdon, Willis R........................Indiana,
o __ •
Cobbs, Frank J...........................Michigan.
Chamberlain, W...........................Indiana.
Cummings, Wm. P..........................Indiana.
Comings, Philip..........................Illinois.
t darke, Matthew.........................Illinois.
Conlon, John.............................Ohio.
Creel, Juan..............................Mexico.
Crilly, Gorge S..........................Illinois.
Collins, Walter..........................Missouri.
Collins, William.........................Missouri.
Conway, John J...........................Illinois.
Crawford, Jep D..........................Texas.
Colina, Manuel...........................Mexico.
Callaghan, Thomas E......................Ohio.
Crotty, Fred.............................Illinois.
Cartier, Warren E........................Michigan.
Cartier, George R........................Michigan.
Cartier, Dezire..........................Michigan.
Chapin, Paul.............................Colorado.
Crawford, J. Ernest......................Colorado.
Cavaroc, Charles.........................Illinois.
Coghlin, Wm. L...........................Ohio.
Cleary, Jacob Thompson..................Kentucky.
Courtney, Joseph.........................Maryland.
Cusack, Joseph..........................Indian Territory.
Cooper, William F.......................Iowa.
Cooper, A. A. Jr........................Iowa.
Cleveland, Albert........................Illinois.
Campau, C. C............................Dakota.
Calvin, DaA id W........................Illinois.
Carnahan, Henry C.......................Michigan.
Chute, Louis P..........................Minnesota.
Chute, Fred. B..........................Minnesota
Campbell, William.......................Illinois.
Doss, John E............................Missouri.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Doss, Ernest...............................Missouri.
Doss, Samuel...............................Missouri.
Dunford, Frank M...........................Illinois.
Dunford, George............................Illinois.
DeGroot, John..............................Indiana.
Dillon, Edward.............................Iowa.
Dory, Firman...............................Illinois.
Donahoe, John..............................Indiana.
Dougherty, John............................Tennessee.
Dorenberg, John R..........................Illinois.
Donnellan John.............................Wyoming.
Day, Stanley...............................Colorado.
Duffin, Charles........................•.	. .Ohio
Dwan, P. F............j....................Illinois.
Daly, William..............................Indiana.
Dexter, Frank..............................Missouri.
Dolan, Michael.............................Iowa.
Dillon, Otto P.............................Indiana.
Dickerson, Sydney J........................Colorado
Darragh. Edward............................Minnesota,
o
Devine, James A............................Illinoi5-.
Devine, William P..........................Illinois.
DeHaven, Geoi'ge W.........................Illinois.
DeHaas, Nicholas...........................Michigan.
Dempsey, John..............................Indiana.
Erlenborn, A. J..........................Illinois.
Eppstein, Leonard........................Texas.
Estrada, Santiago....................... .Mexico
Emmons, J. S.............................Michigan.
Ernest, John W...........................Colorado.
Ewing, Edward S..........................Ohio.
Fox, John W.............................
Fox, Joseph S...........................
Fisher, John............................
Falvey, Thomas..........................
Falvey, Francis M.......................
Falvey, Edward B........................
Fehr, Frank.............................
Ferguson, Charles.......................
Frain, Roderick J.......................
Freyermuth, Harry.......................
Finfrock, Harry.........................
Finlay, Charles E.......................
Flynn, John M...........................
Finckh, Albert..........................
Flood, Thomas...........................
Iowa.
Iowa.
Colorado.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Kentucky.
Massachusetts
Colorado.
Indiana.
Wyoming.
Missouri.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Gonzales, Abraham
Goulding, P J......
Grunsfeld, James..
Grunsfeld, Ivan...
Garrity, Joseph...
Garrity, Frank....
Mexico.
Ma'sachusetts.
New Mexico.
New Mexico.
Illino:s.
Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	____^69
Gordon, Alexander........................Indiana.
Gordon, A. A.............................Indiana.
Grever, Leonard..........................Ohio.
Grever, Eugene...........................Ohio.
Grimes, William..........................Coloiado.
Grimes, Albert...................*.......Colorado.
Guthrie, John W.............................Iowa.
Garcia, Eugene..............................Colorado.
Gould, Havens W.............................Michigan.
Garber, Frank Day...........................Illinois.
Goodfellow, Robert B........................Kamas.
Graham, Robert Charles......................Illinois.
Houck, George A............................Oregon.
Hoye, Arthur...............................Louisiana.
Henry, Wm. J...............................Texas.
Haney, Oscar W.............................Illinois.
Hamlyn, John J.............................Montana.
Hotaling, Edward T.........................New York.
Harris, Charles R..........................Illinois.
Hemmersbaugh, W. A.........................Indiana.
Haring, Oscar..............................Indiana.
Howard, Ecward A...........................Indiana.
Hieronimus, Julius.........................Illinois.
Hibbeler, Julius M.........................Missouri.
Harless, Wm. M.............................Illinois.
Halligan, John.............................Missouri.
Holman, Samuel.............................Tennessee.
Henry, Bernard.............................Illinois.
Hagenbarth, Frank..........................Idaho.
Howard, Patrick............................Illinois
Hasson, George M...........................Utah.
Hasson John C..............................Utah.
Hausburg, Charles..........................Iowa.
Hopkins, John H. R.........................Missouri.
Hornbeck, Harry...........................Indiana.
Hutchison, Frank A.........................Ohio.
Horn, Jacob................................Indiana.
Houlihan, William..........................Indiana.
Healy, John................................Illinois.
Inderrieden, C. V.........................Illinois.
Inderrieden, Robert.......................Illinois.
Jones, Charles E...............................-Illinois.
Jess William..................................Iowa.
Johnson, Charles....'...............‘.........Indiana.
Johnston, William FI...............’..........Ohio.
Johnson. Paul..........'......................Illinois.
Johns, Cash...................................Michigan.
Jones, Shelly.................................Illinois.
Jones, Edward.......................	.. ......Indiana.
Kleiber, John...
Kelly, Joseph A
Texas.
District of Columbia.
70	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kegel, Louis..............................Mexico.
Kegel, Carlos.............................Mexico.
Knisely, Richard..........................Illinois.
Kolars, C. C..............................Minnesota.
King, Thomas..............................Iowa.
Kelly, Edward.............................Illinois.
Kelly, John T.............................Illinois.
Kellner, Fritz............................Kentucky.
Knight, Frank J...........................Iowa.
Kenney, Henry.............................Indiana.
Kavanaech. Louis..........................Iowa.
Klaner, Daniel............................Illinois.
Keys, rJ homas............................Illinois.
Kintz, John...............................Indiana.
Kintz, Andrew.............................Indiana.
Klink, Leonard............................Illinois.
Lechuga, Jose.............................’Mexico.
Lechuga, Manuel...........................Mexico.
Leoni, Nicholas.............•.............Illinois.
Livingston, Abe...........................Indiana.
Long, Henry...............................Missouri.
Long, Ferdinand...........................Missouri.
Luther, Minot.............................Indiana.
Loya, Augustus............................Mexico.
Landenwich, George........................Kentucky.
Letcher, Julius...........................Arkansas.
Lewis, Richard............................New Mexico.
Loomis, Walter M..........................Illinois.
Lasley, William...........................Kansas.
Levin, Percy H............................Illinois.
Moye, Gustave.............................Mexico.
Moye, Augustus............................Mexico.
Martinez, Louis...........................Mexico.
Marquez, Raymond..........................Mexico.
Moncada, Jose.............................Mexico.
Maguirr, Patrick..........................Iowa.
Mulkern, Michael	B.....................Iowa.
Muessel, Adolph...........................Indiana.
Monschein, John...........................Indiana.
Miller, George H..........................„ Illinois.
Mooney, Christopher.......................Illinois.
Morrison, Vincent E.......................Iowa.
Morrison, Wm. J...........................Iowa.
Morrison, Bert............................Michigan.
Morgan, Henry.............................Illinois.
Meyer, Frank R............................Indiana.
Mitchell, Chas............................Illinois.
Mitchell, John W..........................Illinois.
Morrison, Richard G.......................Texas.
Menig, Wm.................................Illinois.
Mason, Carlisle...........................Illinois.
Mason, Albert Joseph......................Colorado.
Murphy, Frank E............................Nebraska.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
Marion, \. J.........
Mathers, Lafayette.....
Mahon, Wm. P...........
Mahon, Thomas..........
Myers, George W........
Murphy, Wm. F..........
Mullane, Philip................
Murdock, Samuel.........
Murdock, Charles................
Macke, Bernard..........
Meehan, Augustus........
Miller, Andrew..........
Meister, George.........
Morrison, George D ....
Murphy, John F....................
Maloy, Augustine........
Moody, Arthur...........
Millard, William.....
Meinzer, Felix S..............
McCourt, Willard................
McCourt, Marks..........
McNulty, Anthony....
McNulty, Joseph.........
McGill, Thomas..........
McGill, William.........
McCartney, Robert S.
McErlaine, Frank........
McMurray, Albert........
McPhee, William.........
McMillan, John..........
McArdle, Joseph.........
McGuire, Thomas.........
McVeigh, James A....
McGordon, Charles.. .
McGordon, James F...
McKinnery, Thomas J
McCabe, John J..........
McCullough, Wm..........
McGuire, William........
McNally, Charles........
.. Colorado.
. Illinois.
. Mississippi.
. Mississippi.
, . Iowa.
.. Iowa.
. .Illinois.
. . Indiana.
. . Indiana.
. . Ohio.
,. Kentucky.
. .Wisconsin.
. .Illinois.
. .Michigan.
.. Dakota.
.. Ohio.
. . Indiana.
,. Michigan.
, .Minnesota.
.. Colorado.
.. Colorado.
. .Illinois.
.. Illinois.
. .Illinois.
.. Illinois.
. .Indiana.
.. Indiana.
. . Illinois.
.. Colorado
, . Colorado.
. . Kent ucky.
. . Iowa.
.. Kentucky.
. .Michigan.
. .Michigan.
.. Illinois.
. . Indiana.
.. Iowa.
. . Illinois.
.. Indiana.
J
Nussbaum, Samuel.........................Indiana.
Nussbaum, Bert...........................Indiana.
Noonan, William..........................Illinois.
Noonan, Frank J..........................Colorado.
Nester, John F...........................Michigan.
Nester, Frank............................Michigan.
Nester, Arthur T.........................Michigan.
Norfolk, Thomas B........................Illinois.
Nadeau, Joseph............•	• • •........Kansas.
Oxnard, Richard..........................Pennsylvania.
O’Brien, Samuel..........................Indiana.
STSSSW
O’Donnell, James V......................Illinois.
O’Donnell, Joseph P.....................Michigan.
O’Kane, George F........................Ohio.
72	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
O’Kane, Mortimer E........................Ohio.
O’Kane, James Byron.......................Ohio.
O’Connell, William........................Indiana.
O’Connor, William.........................Pennsylvania.
Prudhomme, P. P...........................Louisiana.
Prudhomme, J. L...........................Louisiana.
Prudhomme, E. C...........................Louisiana.
Parres, Albert............................Mexico.
Portillo, Jose............................Mexico.
Padilla, V................................Mexico.
Peil, Frank A. ...••• •...................Wisconsin.
Piero, James W............................Ohio.
Paul, Leon................................Indiana.
Perkins, Horace...........................Michigan.
Porter. Harry C...........................Wisconsin.
Porter, Charles F.........................Wisconsin.
Porter, Edward T..........................Wisconsin.
Porter, John C............................Indiana.
Pohl, Ed ward.............................Tennessee.
Paschel, Henry............................Iowa.
Paschel, Charles..........................Iowa.
Pattison, Willis..........................Indiana.
Peck, James Stanly........................Colorado.
Peck, Frank...............................Colorado.
Perley, Kirk..............................Arkansas.
Peifer, John E............................Illinois.
Peifer, Patrick...........................Illinois.
Powell, George H..........................Illinois.
Phillips, Hugh B..........................Kentucky.
Price, Hiram..............................Illinois.
Quill, Denis........................................Illinois.
Quit , Daniel.......................................Illinois.
Quinlan, Cecil......................................Illinois.
Regan, Charles.............................Texas.
Rui, Guillermo.............................Mexico.
Ramsay, William E..........................Dakota.
Real, Manuel...............................Mexico.
Rose, Leon.................................Indiana.
Ratighan, William V...'....................Illinois.
Rothert, Plug C............................Indiana.
Ryan, J. Walter............................Illinois.
Ryan, Oswald E.............................Illinois.
Ryan, Thomas C.............................Kansas.
Ryan, Ethan................................Kansas.
Rebori, Vincent............................Illinois.
Remish, James J............................Minnesota.
Ruffing, Charles E.........................Ohio.
Reilly, Thomas Francis.....................Missouri.
Rugee, Fred................................Wisconsin.
Rice John J................................Iowa.
Riley, Joseph..............................Colorado.
Reach, J. D................................Missouri.
Rivard, Alexis.............................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	73
Reynolds, William C.......................New Mexico.
Rogers, Frank J...........................Iowa.
Ruger, John F.............................I nd iana.
Rahilly, J. M.............................Minnesota.
Ruppe, J ohn..............................Michigan.
Robinson, Hardie..........................Kentucky.
Reitz George..............................Illinois.
Ramsey Charles P..........................Indiana.
Roth, John Adam...........................Indiana.
Riley, Edward J...........................Ohio.
Redlich, Alexander........................Illinois.
Stubbs, Charles J.........................Texas.
Sanchez, Alexander........................Mexico.
Sagredo, Antonio..........................Mexico.
Senn, Charles.............................Illinois.
Shields, James............................Michigan.
Shea Joseph...............................Wisconsin.
Sheridan T. J.............................Iowa.
Soden. Frank..............................Missouri.
Soden, John...............................Missouri.
Saviers, C. D.............................Ohio.
Salmon, Frank.............................Illinois.
Shoeneman Simon...........................Illinois.
Sokup, Joseph.............................Illinois.
Smith, Frank..............................Wisconsin.
Steis, Henry..............................Indiana.
Stephens Richard Sibley...................Illinois.
Spangler, John............................Indiana.
Schmauss, Edward..........................Illinois.
Sweet. Dean...............................Colorado.
Spencer, Charles H........................Indiana.
Stange W. J...............................Illinois.
Shaffer. James............................Missouri.
Shaw, Fred................................Illinois.
Smith, Charles T..........................Indiana.
Scherrer, Leo.............................Colorado.
Sheuerman, Manasses.......................Iowa.
Sheuerman, Lee.............................Iowa.
Stone, Lre................................Texas.
Sedberry, Henry Hart......................Texas.
i	Sykes,	McRae.............................Kansas.
’	ServF,	Philip............................Missouri.
Smith, G. Harry...........................Colorado.
;	Smith,	James J...........................Ohio.
!	Smith,	A. T..............................Illinois.
i	Schulze. Edward...........................Minnesota.
!	Smith, H. L...............................Minnesota.
i	Snyder, Frank B...........................Illinois.
;	Snapp, Robert T...........................Indiana.
S	Spillard, Theo. M.........................Illinois.
J	Sheunemann, Louis.........................Illinois.
s
Tewksbury, David.......................................Utah.
I	Thurston, Frank	M.......................Minnesota.
■ Talbot, John J..........................Indiana.
Tarrant, George...........................Wisconsin.
1

74	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Thomas, David............................
Triplett, Albert.........................
Triplett, John S.........................
Trepanier, Ernest........................
Trepanier, John..........................
Tully, William J.........................
Troy, John...............................
Troy, Joseph.............................
Troxell, William S.......................
Terry. Samuel P..........................
Tibesor, Nicholas........................
Thompson, William........................
Tracey, Luke.............................
Indiana.
Missouri.
Missouri.
Iowa.
Iowa.
Rhode Island.
Iowa
Iowa
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Vandercar, William T...................Illinois.
Vanselow, William......................New Mexico.
Wieting, John Guy......................Florida.
Williams, Charles......................Michigan.
Wilev, Samuel B........................Michigan.
Wabraushek, William....................Michigan.
Willard, Edward W......................Iowa.
Wagoner, John C........................Iowa.
Wagoner, Philip........................Iowa.
Wagoner, William.......................Iowa.
Williams William.......................Indiana.
Waggoner, Fred G.......................Illinois.
Warner. James H........................Tennessee.
Williamson, Theo	P...................Missouri.
Williamson, A. T.......................Missouri.
Willard, W. Blodgett...................Illinois.
Weston. Frank B........................Missouri.
Welker, Ted............................Texas.
Welker, Daise..........................Texas.
Weiler, Joseph.........................Kentucky.
Williams, A. Sydney....................Texas.
West, Cale T...........................Kentucky.
Willson, John D........................Iowa.
Warner, Charles S......................Illinois.
White, Matthew M.......................Iowa.
Woodbridge, Leverett...................Michigan,
o	o
Werst, Henry J.........................Ohio.
Zollars, Edward W...........................Iowa.
Zeitler, Edward............................Indiana.
Zozaya, Jose................................Mexico.
Zozaya, Louis...............................Mexico.
Associated Alumni.
1884-85.
Rev. JOHN R. DINNEN, ’76, President.
WILLIAM HOYNES, ’69, ist Vice-President.
FLORIAN DEVOTO, ’74, 2D Vice-President.
Rev. N. J. STOFFEL, C. S. C., '76, Secretary.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, '62, Treasurer.
JOHN M. GIBBONS, ’69, Orator.
Rev. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, C. S. C., ’69, Poet.
GEORGE F. SUGG, J8i, Alternate Poet.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, ’69, Historian.
r
Senior Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the
Senior Department, has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members. It was established
in 1845.
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. F. H. Dexter, Rec. Secretary.
T. J. McKinnery, President.	J. W. Guthrie, Cor. Secretary,
H. A. Steis, Vice-President.	C. F. Porter, j p
S. Murdock, Treasurer.	J. J. Conway, ) ensors-
LITERARY.
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851, (originally under
the name of the St. Aloysius Literary and Historical Society,) is
the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate
knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and debating
Society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in
writing, and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Prof. W. Hoynes Director.
H. A. Steis, President.
T. E. Callaghan, Vice-President.
T. L. Mathers, Treasurer.
F. H. Dexter, Rec. Secretary.
P. J. Goulding, Cor. Secretary.
M. A. Dolan, )
F. J. Combe, | Censors-
J. Conlon, Serg’t.-at-Arms.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
77
Thespian Association.
QThis Society, founded in 1S61, has for its object the cultivation
of Oratory, Elocution, and the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Critic.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
T. J. McKinnery, ist Vice-President.
JI. P. Porter, 2d Vice-President.
W. H. Johnston, Historian.
A. A. Browne, Rec. Secretary.
C.	C. Kolars, Cor. Se retary.
D.	C. Saviers, Treasurer.
H. J Steis, Librarian.
J. W. Guthrie, ist Censor.
W. E. Ramsay, 2d Censor.
T. E. Callaghan, Prompter.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Critic.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
T. J. McKinnery, ist Vice-President.
J. W. Guthrie, 2d Vice President.
L. T. Mathers, Historian.
A. A. Browne, Rec. Secretary.
F. H. Dexter, Treasurer.
P. J. Goulding, Librarian.
M. A. Dolan, ist Censor.
A J. Ancheta, 2djCenso-r.
W. E. Ramsay, Prompter.
Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society.
The Columbian Society was founded March the 25th, 1873, for
the benefit of the Commercial Students. Its object is the cultiva-
tion of Elocution and Oratory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C, ) promoters
Bro. Paul, C. o. C.,	)
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
P. Howard, ist Vice-President.
A. McMurray, 2d Vice-President.
W. A. Cartier, Treasurer.
J. Wagoner, Rec. Secretary.
A. Marion, Cor. Secretary.
E. T. Hotaling, Historian.	'
W. Jess, Librarian.
A. McNulty ist Censor.
G. F. O’Kane, ist Property Manager.
W. M. Loomis. 2d Property Manager.
J. Bates, ist Prompter.
PI. C. Rothert, 2d Prompter.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., £ Promoters
Bro. Paul, C. S. C., momoters.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
D. Byrnes, ist Vice-President.
P. Chapin, 2d Vice-President.
P. Howard, Critic.
A. McMurray, Rec. Secretary.
G.	F. O’Kane, Cor. Secretary.
W. A. Cartier, Treasurer.
H.	Austin, ist Censor.
E. T. Hotaling, 2d Censor.
M. Burns, Historian.
J. E. Cusack. Serg’t.-at-Arms.
J. Bates, Marshal.
P. McGuire, ist Property Manager,
O'. Ryan, 2d Property Manager;
W. Harless, ist Prompter.
J. DeGroot, 2d Prompter.
A. Marion, Librarian.
78
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Scientific Association.
This Society was founded in the Spring of 1868 for the prosecu-
tion of scientific researches. It contains three Departments, de-
voted respectively to Natural History, Physics, and Mathematics.
OFFICERS.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Director. J. J. Conway, Cor. Secretary.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C., President. J. W. Guthrie, Treasurer.
W. H. Johnston, Vice-President. M. A. Dolan, Censor.
C. C. Kolars, Rec. Secretary.
Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas.
This Association was organized Nov. 4, 1882, for the purpose
of stimulating students to devote special attention to philosophical
studies. Monthly meetings are held, at which such philosophical
subjects as are most closely connected with the leading questions
of the day are discussed. The disputations are conducted strictly
according to the Scholastic method.
OFFICERS.
Verv Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., ) tT	tv +
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Honoiaiy Dnectois.
First Session.
Second- Session.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant
Promoter.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
T. J. McKinnery, President.
J. W Guthrie, 1st Vice-President.
G.	H. Smith, 2d Vice-President.
S. J. Dickerson, Treasurer.
H.	P. Porter, Rec. Secretary.
J. J. Conway, Cor. Secretary.
F. Burke, 1st Censor.
C. Porter, 2d Censor.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant
Promoter.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
T. J. McKinnery, President.
J. W. Guthrie, 1st Vice-President.
H. P. Porter, 2d Vice-President.
H. Steis, Treasurer.
T. E. Callaghan, Rec. Secretary.
F. H. Dexter, Cor. Secretary.
F. Burke. 1st Censor.
P. J. Goulding, 2d Censor.
Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union.
This Association is affiliated to the State and National Unions.
Since its establishment it has received the warmest encouragement
from the officers and faculty of the institution, whose constant
effort has been to increase the number of its members.
&
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
79
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Senior Branch.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.	J. A. Ancheta, Rec. Secretary.
T. J. McKinnery, ist Vice-President. J. D. Reach, Cor. Secretary.
F. H. Dexter, 2d Vice-President. P. J. Goulding, Treasurer.
First Session.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
F. T. Hagenbarth, ist Vice-President.
J. Monschein, 2d Vice-President.
M. B. Mulkern, Rec. Secretary.
S. O’Brien, Cor. Secretary.
W. Wabraushek, Treasurer.
H. PI. Sedberry, ist Censor.
G. W. Myers, Standard-Bearer.
Junior Branch.
Second Session.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
W. Wabraushek, ist Vice-President.
S. O’Brien, 2d Vice-President.
J. Monschein, Rec. Secretary.
C. D. Harris, Cor. Secretary.
M. B. Mulkern, Treasurer.
PI. H. Sedberry, ist Censor.
W. R. Congdon, 2d Censor.
G. W. Myers, Standard Bearer.

RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
This Confraternity is composed of the students of the Junior
Department. It has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the-Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members.
First Session.
OFFICERS.
Second Session.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spiritual
Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
F. J. Plagenbqrth, ist Vice-President.
M. Clarke, 2d Vice-President.
S. O’Brien, Rec. Secretary.
J. Monschein, Cor. Secretary.
J. Dorenburg, Treasurer.
M. B. Mulkern, ist Censor.
W. Wabraushek, 2d Censor.
W. Berthelot, Standard-Bearer.
R.	Oxnard, Organist.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spiritual
Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
F. J. Hagenbarth, ist Vice-President.
C. J. Stubbs, 2d Vice-President.
S.	O’Brien, Rec. Secretary.
W. Wabraushek, Cor. Secretary.
J. Dorenburg, Treasurer.
W. Daly, ist Censor.
M. B. Mulkern, 2d Censor.
C. Mason, Standard-Bearer.
R.	Oxnard, Organist.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
LITERARY.
St. Cecilia Pliilomathean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the
same time a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its
exercises include public reading, declamations, essays, debates,
dramatic exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—
the elite of the Junior Department. Many of the plays acted upon
the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers
of its members, are written especially for them.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Perpetual Honorary Director.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C.,	) -r,	,
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C„ J Promoters'
Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
Prof. A. J. Stace, C.E., A.M., I Gen’l
Prof. W. Hoynes, A. M , Critics.
F. J. Hagenbarth, xst Vice-President.
J. Monschein, 2d Vice-President.
C. J. Stubbs, Rec. Secretary.
T. J. Cleary, Cor. Secretary.
E. Porter, Treasurer.
M. B. Mulkern, Historian.
C. Cavaroc, Librarian.
J. S. Courtney, 1st Censor.
C. Mason, 2d Censor.
L. Grever, 1st Monitor.
J. Garrity, 2d Monitor.
S. O’Brien, Sergeant-at-Arms.
W. Berthelet, Marshal.
C. Harris, 1st Costumer.
J Crawford, 2d Costumer.
R. Oxnard, Organist.
B. Morrison, Prompter.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., ) p
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., 5 romo eis‘
Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
Prof. A. J. Stace, C.E., A.M., ) Gen’l
Prof. W. Hoynes, A. M., j Critics.
F. J. Hagenbarth, 1st Vice-President.
W. Daly, 2d Vice President.
J. Monschein, Rec. Secretary.
C. Mason, Cor. Secretary.
E. Porter, treasurer.
C. J. Stubbs, Historian.
M. B. Mulkern, Librarian.
J. S. Courtney, 1st Censor.
G. Mvers, 2d Censor.
W. Wabraushek, 1st Monitor.
S.	O’Brien, 2d Monitor.
J. Congdon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
T.	Cleary, Mar.-hal.
C. Harris, 1st Costumer.
C. Cavaroc. 2d Costumer.
R. Oxnard, Orgnnist.
L. Chute, Prompter.
St. Stanislaus Pliilopatrian Society.
This Society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English
Composition and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
8x
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
P. Mullane, ist Vice-President.
G. Menig, 2d Vice-President.
G. Tarrant, Treasurer.
D. C. Regan, Rec. Secretary .
T. Williamson, Cor. Secretary.
C. McGordon, Librarian.
W. Houlihan, ist Censor.
G. Cartier, 2d Censor.
L. Rose, Sergeant-at-Arms.
W. Morrison, Marshal.
C. Spencer, Prompter.
W. Stange, ist Costumer.
J. Donnellan, 2d Costumer.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL.B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
G. Tarrant, ist Vice-President.
D.	Tewksbury, 2d Vice-President.
W. Houlihan, Treasurer.
J. Baur, Rec. Secretary.
M. Luther, Cor. Secretary.
G. Meehan, Librarian.
L. Rose, ist Censor.
E.	Schmauss, 2d Censor.
D. Cartier, Sergeant-at-Arms.
W. Stange, Marshal.
M. O’Kane, Prompter.
W. Morrison, ist Costumer.
W. Devine, 2d Costumer.

RELIGIOUS.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the Christian world to contribute their share
towards the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of
heathenism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggre-
gate is considerable, while thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Sup. Gen. C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., President.
W. McPhee, Vice-President.
F. Noonan, Secretary.
A. Nester, Treasurer.
A.	Williams, Censor.
B.	O’Kane, Librarian.
£ Standard-Bearers.
L. Scherrer, j
C.	Moncada, / A,r .,
A. McVeigh, J I'Ionltor5'
82
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded Sept. 29, 1874, by Very Rev. Edw.
Sorin, Superior General C. S. C. It is composed of the pupils
of the Minim Department. It has for its object the practice of
devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety
among its members, and to provide the Church with the servers
required at Mass, Vespers, and the other Church offices. In 1875,
Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many special
Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX, of glorious memory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.
Mr. J. Thillman, C. S. C., President.
Bro. William, C. S. C., Promoter.
W. McPhee, 1 st Vice-President.
J. McNulty, 2d Vice-President.
E. Kelly, Secretary.
A. McVeigh, Cor. Secretary.
L.	Scherrer, Treasurer.
F. Peil, Librarian.
M.	McCourt, 1 st Censor.
C. Mooney, 2d Censor.
F. Crotty, Standard-Bearer.
F. Dunford, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Very. Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant
“ Director.
Mr. J. Thillman, C. S. C., President.
Bro. William, C. S. C., Promoter.
J. McNulty, 1st Vice-President.
B. O’Kane, 2d Vice President.
E.	Berry, Secretary.
F.	Peil. Cor. Secretary.
L. Scherrer, Treasurer.
J. Piero, Librarian.
A Nester, 1st Censor.
T. Falvey, 2d Censor.
A. Williamson, S,tandard-Bearer.
F. Chute, Sergeant-at-Arms.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by Rev. T. E. Walsh,
' C. S. C., on Nov. 25th, 1877, is the study of Elocution, and the
cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Rt Rev. Joseph Dwenger, "
Bishop of Fort Wayne,
Very Rev. E. So*in. Sup.-Gen’l
of the Congregation of the Holy
Cross,
Hon. Directors.
First Session
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C S C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
Bro. William, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F Edwards, President.
Bro. William, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
83
I.	Bunker, 1st Vice-President.
W. McPhee, 2d Vice-President.
L. Scherrer, Secretary.
J.	Kelly, Cor. Secretary.
E.	Berry, Treasurer.
J. Doss, Librarian.
C. Campau, Marshal.
F.	Coobs, 1 st Monitor.
H. Blakeslee, 2d Monitor.
F. Crotty, 1st Censor.
J. Ernest, 2d Censor.
C. Mooney, 3d Censor.
C. V. Inderrieden, 4th Censor.
E. Kelly, Sergeant-at-Arms.
B.	O’Kane, Property Manager.
E. Kelly, xst Vice-President.
C.	V. Inderrieden, 2d Vice-President.
J. Kelly, Secretary.
W. Henry, Cor. Secretary.
F. Peck, Treasurer.
J. Ernest, Librarian.
I. Bunker, Marshal.
C. Mitchell, 1 st Monitor.
B. O’Kane, 2d Monitor.
F. Noonan, xst Censor.
T. McGuire, 2d Censor,
A. McVeigh, 3d Censor.
F. Crotty, 4th Censor.
C. Smith, Sergeant-at-Arms.
J. Bell, Property Manager.
ATHLETIC.
University Base-Ball Association.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., ) -p..	,
Bro. Paul, C. S. C., Directors.
Prof. F. B. Devoto, President.
H. A. Steis, Treasurer.
H. Porter, Secretary.
Bro. Emmanuel C. S. C., ) Directors.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C.,	)
Prof. F. B. Devoto, President.
H. A. Steis, Treasurer.
H. A. Steis,
A. McNulty,
Captains..
P. J. Goulding, Secretary.
F. Dexter, Reporter.
A. McNulty,
W. Coghlin,
Captains.
Otis Light Guards.
This Association, composed of students of the Senior Depart-
ment, was organized in the year 1879 by Capt. Cocke; reorgan-
ized in 1882 by Col. Elmer Otis, 8th Cav. U. S. A., and again
reorganized Feb. n, 1885, by Elmer A. Otis. It numbers 50
members, and has foi its object the advancement of the students
of the University in military science.
Officers of the Association.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
P. Chapin, Treasurer.
T. E. Callaghan, Rec. Secretary.
T. J. McKinnery, Cor. Secretary.
S.	T. Murdock, Serg’t-at-Arms.
Officers of the Comfany.
E. A. Otis, Captain.
M. Sykes, xst Lieutenant.
H. P. Porter, 2d Lieutenant.
J. W. Guthrie, xst Sergeant.
J. E. Cusack, 2d Sergeant.
A. A. Browne, Color-Bearer.
84	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Lemonnier Boat Club.
OFFICERS.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. J. W. Guthrie, Commodore.
Rev. J. M. Toohey, C. S. C., Assistant H. A. Steis, Treasurer.
Director.	F. H. Dexter, Rec. Secretary.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C S C., President. A. A. Browne. Cor. Secretary.
CREWS.
Minnehaha—T. J. McKtnnery, Capt.
H. A. Steis, Bow.
S. J. Dickerson, No. 2.
L. Kavanaugh, No 3.
J. Riley, No. 4.
A. Gordon, No 5.
T. J. McKinnery, Stroke.
F. H. Dexter, Coxswain.
Evangeline—P. J. Goulding. Capt.
D. C. Saviers, Bow.
P. Chapin, No. 2
J. McMillan, No. 3.
W. Campbell, No 4.
L. Mathers, No. 5.
P. J. Goulding, Stroke.
A. McNulty, Coxswain.
Junior Athletic Club.
OFFICERS.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., President.
F. J. Hagenbarth, Vice-President.
W. Wabraushek, Secretary.
G.	Myers, Treasurer.
W. Daly, 1st Censor.
H.	H. Sedberry, 2d Censor.
C. Mason, 3d Censor.
M. B. Mulkern, 1st Reporter.
W. Borgschulze, 2d Reporter,

Conferring of Degrees.
_________________________
The (Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
Hon. Benjamin J. Webb, of Louisville, Ky.
; The (Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
Martin J. Regan, of Notre Dame, Inch
John J. Molloy, of Germantown, Ky.
Albert F. Zahm, of Huntington, Ind.
1	O >
i
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Sydney J. Dickerson, Denver, Col.
George H. Smith, Reading, Pa.
;	Thomas Francis Clarke, Columbus, Ohio.
The Degree <9/Bachelor of Science was conferred on
John W. Guthrie, Carroll City, Iowa.
William FI. Johnston, East Townsend, Ohio.
James J. Conway, Ottawa, Ill.
Charles F. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.
Henry P. Porter, Eau Claire, Wis.
Charles C. Kolars, New Prague, Minn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
James J. Conway, Ottawa, Ill.
Thomas E. Callaghan, Cleveland, Ohio.
John D. Willson, Mason City, Iowa.
Henry A. Steis, Winamac, Ind.
' — ................. .............. -■ - -
Commercial Graduates.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
John D. Hamlyn, Butte City, Montana.
Samuel P. O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.
Edward A. Howard, South Bend, Ind.
Edward J. Darragh, Minneapolis, Minn.
Philip C. Mullane, Alton Junction, Ill.
John W. Monschein, Elkhart, Ind.
a
George W. DeHaven, Chicago, Ill.
Charles F. Paschel, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
Henry J. Paschel, Council Bluffs, Iowa.
William Noonan, Aledo, Ill.
William T. Berthelet, Milwaukee, Wis.
George AV. Myers, Dubuque, Iowa.
William C. Reynolds, Mesilla, New Mexico.
Paul P. Johnson, Chicago, Ill.
John E. McCabe, South Bend, Ind.
Charles H. Spencer, Indianapolis, Ind.
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to
William I. Wabraushek, Manistee, Mich.
Pedro Carbajal, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Peter P. Prudhomme, Bermuda, La.
Matthew J. Clarke, Chicago, Ill.
A Medical Certificate was awarded to
Frederick E. Burke, of Saybrook, Ohio.
SPECIAL PRIZE MEDALS.	87
THE GOLD MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS,
Presented by Mr. John R. English, of Columbus, Ohio, -was awarded to
William i.
EAST TOWNSEND, OHIO.
' THE GRAND GOLD MEDAL,	:
Presented, by Mrs M. Regan, Indianola, Texas, to the student in the Senior j
Department -whose record -was the best for the Scholastic	<
Tear, ~was a-warded to	5
MESILLA, NEW MEXICO.
THE MASON GOLD MEDAL,
Presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, III., to the student -with the
' best record in the Junior Department, was azvarded to
LAFAYETTE, IND.
Class Prize Medals.
COLLEGIATE COURSE.
The Class Gold Medals in the Collegiate Course were awarded
to Joseph A. Ancheta, Mesilla, New Mexico ; Frank J.
Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho ; Hugo C. Rothert, Hunting-
burg, Ind.; John J. Kleiber, Brownsville, Tex.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Gold Medal was awarded to Samuel P.
O’Brien, South Bend, Ind.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship in the Commercial Course
was withheld for a time, for reasons satisfactory to the Faculty.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Dwenger Gold MeHl for Christian Doctrine was awarded
to Joseph A. Ancheta, Mesilla, New Mexico.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
John Conlon, Ashtabula, Ohio.
The Corby Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
John Monschein, Elkhart, Ind.
The Oechtering Gold Medal for Church History was awarded
t® Francis J. Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho.
The Gold Medal for Original Work in the Biological Labora-
tory (presented by Rev. J. A. Werdein, Remington, Ind.,) was
•awarded to William H. Johnston, East Townsend, Ohio.
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.	89
The Edwards Gold Medal for History was awarded to Francis
H. Dexter, of Kansas City, Mo.
The Gold Medal for German was awarded to Joseph Court-
ney, of Washington, D. C.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to William P.
Devine, Chicago, Ill.
The Lyons Gold Medals for Elocution were awarded, in the
Senior department, to Thomas F. Callaghan, of Cleveland, O,
and to Francis FI. Dexter, of Kansas City, Mo.; and in the Junior
Department, to John Monschetn, of Elkhart, Ind., and to Joseph
A. Garrity, of Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Oratory (presented by Mr. P. T. Barry,
of Englewood, Ill.) was awarded to Delano C. Saviers, of
Columbus, Ohio. Q
The Gold Medal of the Scientific Association (presented by
Mr. F. E. Kuhn, ’83) was awarded to William H. Johnston, of
* East Townsend, Ohio.
Special Medals in the Minim Department.
The Gold Medal of the Sorin Association was awarded to Wm.
P. McPhee, of Denver, Col.
The Medal for Elocution, presented by Very Rev. Edward
Sorin, Sup.-Gen’l C. S. C., was awarded to Edward F. Kelly,
of Joliet, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship (presented by the Rev. P.
Boland, St. Paul, Minn.) was awarded to C. V. Inderrieden,
of Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Politeness (presented by Mrs. James
Meehan, of Covington, Ky.) was awarded to Christopher
Mooney, of Chicago, Ill.
Special Prizes for Improvement in Penmanship and Elocu-
tion were awarded to John Doss, of Trinidad, Col.; to Leo
Scherrer, of Denver, Col., and to J. Elmo Berry, of Montrose,
Col.
Awarding of Honors.
-----o-----
[The “ First Honor ” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have followed
the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment dur-
ing the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Michael A. Dolan, Charlotte,
Iowa.
Albert A. Browne, Brownsville,
Texas.
John C. Halligan, Union, Mo.
John J. Kleiber, Brownsville,
Texas.
John De Groot, Mishawaka, Ind.
Charles F. Paschel, Council
Bluffs, Iowa.
Henry J. Paschel, Council Bluffs,
Iowa.
Joseph A. Ancheta, Mesilla,
N. M.
Patrick J. Howard, Pawnee,
Hl.
Patrick J. 'Goulding, Chelsea,
Mass.
Frederick J. Combe, Browns-
ville, Texas.
James W. Breen, Loogootee,
Ind.	.
Frank H. Dexter, Kansas City,
Mo.
Tiburcio Becerra, Chihuahua,
Mexico.
Louis J. Kavanagh, Des Moines,
Iowa.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
William A. Borgschulze, Hawes-
ville, Ky.
William T. Berthelet, Mil-
waukee, Wis.
John R. Dorenberg, Chicago
Ill.
Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque,
Iowa.
William J. WLbraushek, Man-
istee, Mich.
Mortimer E. O’Kane, Cincinnati,
Ohio.
Samuel P. O’Brien, South Bend,
Ind.
William Charles Reynolds,
Mesilla, N. M.
Frank J. Rogers, Des Moines,
Iowa.
Hervey H. Sedberry, Jefferson,
Texas.
AWARDING OF HONORS.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
James A. McVeigh, Covington, Leo W. Scherrer, Denver, Col.
Ky.	Frederick W. Crotty, Rockford,
William J. Henry, Dallas, Tex. Ill.
Ivan Grunsfeld, Albuquerque, John W. Ernest, Deer Trail,
N. M.	Col.
Thomas E. McGuire, Elvira, William P. Phee, Denver, Col.
Iowa.	John T. Kelly, Joliet, Ill.
---------0----------
[The “Second Honor” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students who
have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose
deportment has given general satisfaction.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
John C. Wagoner, Dennison, John D. Willson, Mason City,
Iowa.	Iowa.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
George R. Cartier, Ludington,
Mich.
Samuel N. Hollman, Nashville,
Tenn.
Jacob Thompson Cleary, Cov-
ington, Ky.
Theodore P. Williamson, Kan-
sas City, Mo.
Richard G. Morrison, Clarks-
ville, Texas.
Philip S. Wagoner, Dennison,
Iowa.
Dominic C. Regan, Indianola,
Texas.
John M. Monschein, Elkhart,
Ind.
Joseph Baur, Manistee, Mich.
Augustus Meehan, Covington,
Frank Fehr, Louisville, Ky.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MINIM DEPARTMENT
Second Honors were awarded to
Simon
Ill.
Shoeneman, Chicago,
Edward M. Kelly, Joliet, Ill.
Charles T. Smith, South Bend,
Ind.
Francis B. Weston, Kansas City,
Mo.
Henry A. Morgan, Chicago,
Ill.
Cecil Quinlan, Chicago, Ill.
William McGill, Chicago, Ill.
Arthur Nester, Marquette, Mich.
Daniel Quill, Chicago, Ill.
Fritz Kellner, Louisville, Ky.
George A. Landenwich, Louis-
ville, Ky.
Irving L. Bunker, Kansas City,
Mo.
CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses of
the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the whole
time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Felix Baca,
Paul Chapin,
John McMillian,
R. S. McCartney,
P. P. Prudhomme,
W. A. Williams,
Michael O. Burns,
E. J. Crawford,
Patrick McGuire,
Vincente Padilla,
H. C. Rothert,
T. J. Sheridan,
J. E. McCabe,
John Conlon,
Santiago Estrada,
F. R. Meyer,
John F. Troy.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Wm. Arts,
W. R. Congdon,
E. F. Dillon,
J. H. Dempsey,
J. T. Donnellan,
W. C. Daly,
E. J. Darragh,
Thomas Flood,
L. A. Grever,
Aithur Floye,
J. M. Hibbeler,
H. P. Kenney,
G. W. Myers,
B. Macke,
R. Oxnard,
J. F. Portillo,
Manuel Real,
Leon Rose,
J. J. Remesh,
H. FL Robinson.
Charles J. Senn,
Fred. C. Shaw,
Minot Luther,
C. E. Ruffing,
E. C. Prudhomme,
L. Martinez,
E. S. Ewing,
F. D. Smith,
F. C. Kegel,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
E. Berry,
II. L. Perkins,
FL S. Blakeslee,
F. Cobbs,
F. A. Peil,
D. Sweet,
J. Piero,
J. Moncada,
C. Mitchell,
F. Murphy,
F. Peck,
J. A. Bull,
J. Baker,
A. Nussbaum,
C. H. Mooney,
J. McNulty,
E. J. Doss,
J. Peck,
J. A. R. Hopkins,
F. Dunford.
J. Mitchell,
L. R. Stone,
L. S. Doss,
T. P. Falvey,
A. Williamson,
E. L. Barger,
E. B. Falvey,
O. W. Haney,
M. McCourt,
PREMIUMS.
Department.
Austin, L.—ibt Premium in Phonography; Premium for Guitar.
Ancheta, A.—ist Premium in Physics; ist Premium in Chemistry; Premium
in General Geometry and Calculus; ist Premium in Geology; 2d Premium
in Surveying; Premium in Astronomy; Premium in Elocution.
Burke F.—Premium in Anatomy and Surgery; Mention in Criticism.
Browne, A.—Premium in Elocution; 3d Mention in ist Christian Doctrine; 2d
Mention in Mineralogy; 2d Mention in Geology.
Burns, M.—2d Mention in Ancient History; 2d Premium in Rhetoric; 2d
Mention in 7th Latin; 2d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Breen, J. M.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium in ist Reading.
Baca, Felx.—ist Mention in English Literature; 2d Premium in 7th Latin;
Mention for Guitar; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Burke, V.—Mention in General Geometry and Calculus; Premium in Elocu-
tion.
Callaghan, T.—2d Premium in Criticism.
Conlon, J. C.—6th Premium in Vocal Music; Premium in Elocution.
Crilly, G. H.—2d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in ist Grammar.
Collins, W.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention in 2d Grammar;
3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Chapin, P.—3d Mention in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Grammar; 2d
Premium in Phonography.
Conway, J. C.—2d Mention in 4th Latin.
Crawford, E.—ist Mention in English Composition; ist Premium in Figure-
Drawing.
Creel Jno.—ist Premium in 2d Grammar; Mention in 3d Catechism; ist Pre-
mium in ist Penmanship.
Combe, F.—2d Premium in English Literature; 2d Mention in 5th Latin; 2d
Mention in Zoology; 5th Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Combe, C.—2d Mention in Rhetoric.
Carbajal, P.—Premium for Flute.
Campbell, W.—2d Mention in ist Orthograghy; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic;
ist Premium in Telegraphy.
De Groot, J.—ist Premium in English Composition; 3d Premium in 2d
Christian Doctrine.
Dexter, F.—ist Premium in Modern History; Premium in English History;
2d Premium in Logic; ist Premium in 2d Special German; 3d Mention in
Astronomy; 2d Premium for Platting in Purveying; Premium in ist Spanish;
ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Dickerson, S.—Premium in ist Latin; Mention in Moral Philosophy; Premium
in ist Greek.
De Flaven, G.—2d Premium in Type Writing; 2d Premium in Phonography.
Duffin, C.—Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; ist Mention in Penmanship. z
Dory, F.—2d Mention in 2d French; Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine; 3d
Mention in ist Grammar.
Dolan, M.—3d Mention in 4th Latin; ist Mention in Geology; Premium for
Piano; Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Estrada, S.—2d Mention in Spanish-English.
PREMIUMS.
95
Finlay, C.—2d Mention in English History.
Flynn, J.—3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Reading.
Fox, Jno.—3d Mention in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Penmanship.
Goulding, P.—1st Mention in Physics; Mention in Chemistry; 1st Mention in
Astronomy; Premium in Elocution; 2d Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Guthrie, Jno.—1st Premium in Logic; Mention in Civil Engineering.
Gould H.—4th Mention in 1st Orthography; Premium for Guitar; 1st Men-
tion in 3d Grammar; 1st Premium in 1st Reading.
Gordon, A.—3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; Mention for Piano; 3d Mention
in Book-Keeping.
Horn, J.—Mention in 1st Geogiaphy; 2d Premium in 1st Reading.
Hamlyn, J.—2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Book-Keep-
ing; ist Mention in Rhetoric; 1st Premium in 2d Phonography.
Halligan, J.—2d Mention in American Literature; 2d Premium in ist Geom-
etry; 2d Premium in Phonography; ist Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Howard, P.—2d Mention in Surveying; Premium in Elocution.
Hausberg, C.—ist Mention in American Literature; Premium for Piano.
Hasson, G. M.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; Premium in 3d Catechism; ist
Mention in 3d Spanish.
Hutchison, F.—Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Premium in Elocution; Mention
for Piano; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar.
Johnston, W.—ist Premium in Analytical Chemistry.
Jess, W.—ist Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in Rhetoric; ist Men-
tion in 3d Special German; 2d Premium in 4th Algebra; ist Premium in
Phonography; Premium in Elocution.
Kolars, C. C.—2d Premium in Analytical Chemistry; Premium in Mechanics;
Premium in Civil Engineering.
King, T.—4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping; Premium in 3d Christian Doc-
trine; 3d Premium in ist Penmanship.
Kleiber, Jno.— ist Mention in Modjrn History; 1st Mention in 4th Latin; 2d
Mention in American Literature; Premium in 4th Greek; Premium ist
Spanish; Premium in Elocution.
Kegel, L.—Premium for Piano; 2d Premium in Linear Drawing; ist Mention
in Spanish English.
Kavanaugh, L.—ist Mention in Criticism; 3d Mention in Astronomy; ist Men-
tion in ist Christian Doctrine; Mention in Physics and Chemistry.
Keys, T.—2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in ist History; 3d Mention
in ist Geography.
Livingston, A.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in ist Gram-
mar; 3d Mention in ist Reading; ist Mention in Penmanship.
McMurray, A.—6th Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Marion, A.—ist Mention in English Composition; Premium for Improvement
in ist French; ist Mention in 2d Geometry; Mention for Guitar.
Murdo k, S.—3d Mention in Surveying; ist Premium ex-cequo for platting in
Surveying.
Miller, A.—ist Mention in ist German; Premium for Piano.
Mathers, L.—Mention in Physics and Chemistry.
McCabe, Jno.—3d Mention in ist Book-Keeping; ist Mention in ist Orthogra-
phy; 2d Premium in ist Grammar.
McMillan, J. C.—2d Mention in 3th Arithmetic.
McKinnery, T.—Mention in ist Latin; 2d Mention in Logic; Premium in
Moral Philosophy; 2d Mention in 2d French; Premium in Elocution; 2d
Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
McGuire, P.—3d Premium in Rhetoric; ist Mention in 7th Latin;, 2d Mention
in 4th German; 2d Mention in 2d Algebra; ist Mention in 2d Christian
Doctrine.
Meyer, F.—2d Mention in ist Grammar.
96
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
McCartney, R.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Morrison, G. D.—2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar.
Meister, G.—2d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Mention in 2d Grammar;
2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention in ist Geography; 2d Premium
in 4th Algebra.
Murphy, J.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar;
ist Mention in ist Geography; Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Noonan, W.—3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Orthogra
phy; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
O'Donnell, J. V.—1st Premium in Phonography.
O'Kane, G.—ist Premium in Vocal Music (Bass).
O’Donnell, J. P.—2d Premium in Phonography; 3d Premium in Type-Writ-
ing
O’Connell, W.—2d Mention in English Literature; 2d Premium in Zoology;
2d Mention in Trigonometry; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Paschel, H.—2d Mention in 3d Special German; istPremium in Phonography;
Premium in Elocution.
Paschel, 1-.—2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Mention in English Compo-
sition; ist Premium in Phonography; Premium in Elocution.
Padilla, V.—Premium for Piano; 7th Premium in Vocal Music; ist Premium
in Spanish-English; it-t Premium in 3d Grammar.
Perley, K.—ist Mention in Penmanship.
Prudhomme, P. P.—3d Premium in 1st History; 3d Mention in ist Geography.
Porter, H.—Mention in Mechanics; Premium for Piano; Premium in Elocution.
Porter, C.—Premium in Descriptive Geometry; Premium for Piano.
Phillips, H.—2d Premium in ist History; 2d Premium in ist Geography.
Price, PI.—4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic; ist Mention in ist Reading; 2d Men-
tion in 2d Grammar.
Rothert, H.— is Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Zoology; ist Premium
in ist Algebra; Premium in Trigonometry.
Roth, F.—2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Ryan, O.—2d Premium in ist Geogiaphy; Mention for Flute.
Riley, F.—3d Premium in ist Penmanship.
Reach, D.—2d Mention in American Literature; 2d Mention in Astronomy;
ist Premium in 3d Spanish; Premium in Elocution.
Ruppe, J.—2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in ist Geography; 3d
Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Rice, J. J.—ist Mention in 2d Algebra.
Riley, E. J.—2d Premium in 2d Beok Keeping; ist Premium in ist Orthogra-
phy; 2d Premium in 2d Giammar; ist Mention in ist Plistory; Premium
for Piaho; 8th Premium in Vocal Music; 2d Mention in Penmanship.
Rahilly, J.—Premium in Elocution.
Smith, A. T.—Premium in Vocal Music.
Smith, G. H.—Mention in ist Greek.
Sheridan, F.—istPremium in Criticism; Mention in 3d Latin; 2d Premium
in Phybics; 2d Premium in Chemistry; Mention in 4th Greek; 2d Premium
in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Steis, H.—Premium in Elocution.
Saviers, D.—Mention in ist Spanish; Mention in Physics and Chemistry.
Spangler, J.—Premium in Elocution.
Snapp, R.—Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar.
Troy, Jno.—ist Mention in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist History; Men
tion in 3d Catechism.
Troy, Jos.—4th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in ist History; Mention in 3d Catechism.
Williams, W.—ist Mention in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist History; 3d
Premium in ist Geography; 4th Mention in i-t Reading.

PREMIUMS.
97
atXr-. J<;
Wagoner, Jno.—2d Premium in 4th Latin; Mention in 4th Greek; 2d Men-
tion in Trigonometry.
Wiley, S.—Mention in Rhetoric.
Williams, A. S.—1st Mention in 2d Phonography; Mention in 3d Catechism.
White, M.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar.
Willson, J. D.—2d Premium in Criticism; 1st Mention in Logic.
Woodbridge, L.—Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar.
Werst, H.—1st Mention in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in ist Geography.
O
Junior Department.
Ackerman, D.—3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Adams, A.—1st Mention in ist Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 1st Geography;
4th Premium in United States History.
Ackerman, H.—3d Premium in 2d Geography.
Amoretti, E.—3d Mention in 2d Reading and Orthography; 2d Mention in
4th Christian Doctrine; 3d Mention for Violin.
Arts, W.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Pre-
mium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Bastable, T.—2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 4th
Arithmetic.
Borgschulze, W.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Mention in 2d Ger-
man; ist Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Benner, E.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Mention in ist United
States History; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Berthelet, W. — 6th Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention in ist Geography;
ist Premium in United States History; 2d Mention in ist German; 2d
Mention in ist Algebra; 4th Premium in ist Penmanship.
Barke, H—2d Mention in 2d Geography; Mention for Cornet.
Baur, J.—2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; ist Mention in ist German;
Mention for Piano.	‘
Congdon, W.—2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Mention in Modern
History; ist Mention in Phonography; 2d Mention in ist Geometry.
Cummings, M.—ist Premium for Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Grammar; ist
Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.	.
Clarke, M.—ist Premium in Phonography.
Colina, M.—ist Mention in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Mention in Spanish-English.
Chamberlain, W.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Premium in 3d Arith-
metic ; Premium in 2d Geography.
Cartier, G.—4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in ist Grammar.
Cartier, D.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Crawford, J.—3d Mention in Phonography.
Cavaroc, C.—4th Premium in ist Penmanship; 2d Premium in ist French;
Premium for Improvement in English Composition.
Cleary, T.—ist Premium in English Composition; ist Mention in English
History; 2d Premium in 6th Greek; 2d Premium in 6th Latin; ist Mention
in 4th Algebra; 2d Premium for Public Reading; Premium for Piano; 3d
Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Courtney, J.—Premium in American Literature; 2d Premium in 5th Latin;
ist Mention in Surveying.
98	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Cooper, G.—3d Premium in 1st Reading; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic;
3d Mention in 4th Algebra; Mention for Piano.
Cleveland, A.—2d Premium in 4th Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Chute, L.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Christian Doc-
trine; Mention for Piano.
Dillon, E.—2d Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st
Mention in xst Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Pre-
mium in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 4th German; 2d Mention in 1st
Penmanship.
Dempsey, J.—1st Mention for Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Dorenburg, J.—xst Mention in xst Reading; 4th Mention in xst Geography;
xst Mention in xst Penmanship.
Dougherty, J.—2d Premium for Reading; 3d Mention in 1st Orthography;
3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
Donnellan, J.—2d Premium in xst Reading; xst Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d
Premium in 3d Chrisiian Doctrine; xst Premium in Telegraphy.
Daly, W.—1st Premium in xst Book-Keeping; xst Premium in Ancient His-
tory; Premium in 4th German; xst Premium in 2d Algebra; xst Premium
in 8th Latin; xst Premium in xst Geometry; 3d Premium for Public Reading.
Darragh, E.—2d Mention in xst Grammar; 4th Mention in xst Book-Keeping;
xst Premium in xst Geography; 3d Premium in xst United States History;
2d Premium in xst Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution; 4th Premium
in xst Penmanship.
Day, S.—3d Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; xst Premium in 4th
Grammar; xst Premium in 2d Geography.
Devine, W.—xst Premium in Type-Writing; xst Premium in Vocal Music;
Premium in Elocution.
De Haas, L.—xst Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Mention in 3d Grammar.
Emmons, J.—4th Premium in Telegraphy.
Eppstein, L.—3d Mention in xst Grammar; 3d Mention in xst Arithmetic;
4th Mention in Penmanship.
Ewing, E.—2d Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in 2d Geom-
etry; 3d Premium in 3d Algebra; xst Premium in 6th Latin; xst Premium
in Christian Doctrine.
Finck, A.—xst Mention in 6th Greek; 1st Mention in 5th Latin; 1st Mention
in 3d Algebra.
Fisher, J.—xst Mention in xst Reading; 3d Premium in xst Grammar; 2d
Premium in 8th Latin; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Mention in 4th
Algebra.
Fehr, F.—xst Mention for Reading; 4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Pre-
mium in Linear Drawing.
Flood, T —2d Premium in xst Penmanship; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; xst
Premium in 3d Chiistian Doctrine; 2d Premium in Figure-Drawing.
Fraine, R.—2d Mention in xst Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d
Mention in xst Geography; xst Mention in xst United States History.
Grunsfeld, J.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arith-
metic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; xst Mention in 2d Geography; 2d
Mention in 3d German.
Grever, L.—4th Mention in xst Book-Keeping; 4th Premium for Public
Reading; Premium for Piano.
Grever, E.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in xst Reading; 2d
Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Garrity, J.—Premium in Elocution
Grimes, W.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Hoye, A.—xst Mention fox' Reading; 2d Mention in xst Orthography; xst
Mention in 2d Arithmetic; xst Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; Premium
in Elocution.
PREMIUMS.
99
Hemisbaugh, W.—ist Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in Phonog-
raphy.
Harris, C.—2d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in English Composition; Premium for Improvement in Composi-
tion; ist Premium in Phonography; 3d Premium for Public Reading; 1st
Premium in Type-Writing; Premium in Elocution.
Howard, E.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic;
2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping.
Hieronimus, J.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist German.
Hibbeler, J.—i^t Premium in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in ist Arithmetic;
ist Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine; ist Mention in ist Book-Keeping;
ist Premium in 2d German.
Holman, S.—3d Mention in ist Grammar; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic;
2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in 3d German; Premium
foi' Piano; Premium in Elocution.
Houlihan, W.—3d Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Hagenbarth, F.—ist Premium in English Literature; 2d Premium in Botany;
ist Premium in Zoology; ist Mention in Trigonometry; Premium in Elo-
cution.
Hanson, J.—2d Premium for Reading; ist Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine;
ist Mention in 3d Spanish.
Johnson, P.—3d Mention in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Penmanship.
Kelly, J.—2d Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d
Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Kegel, C.—4th Premium in Figure-Drawing; ist Mention in Spanish-English.
Kenny, H.—2d Mention in 5th German; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d
Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Klink, L.—2d Mention in 4th Arithmetic.
Luther, M.—ist Mention in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Geography; 2d
Premium in ist United States History.
Long, H.—3d»Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in English Composi-
tion; ist Mention in Phonography.
Long, F.—2d Mention in ist Grammar; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine;
3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine;
ist Premium in 3d German; 3d Premium in Figure-Drawing; ist Mention
in ist Penmanship.
Loya, A.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; ist Premium in 4th Christian Doc-
trine; 2d Mention for Reading.
Levin, P.—ist Mention in ist Reading; 3d Mention in ist Grammar.
Martinez, G.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Linear-Drawing;
2d Mention in Spanish-English; 4th Premium in ist Penmanship.
Mulkern, M.—Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 2d
Premium in Ancient History; 2d Premium in ist Geometry; 2d Premium
in Christian Doctrine.
Muessel, A.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; ist Mention in 5th German; 3d
Mention in 2d Penmanship.
McCourt, W.—ist Mention in 2d Orthography; ist Mention in 4th Grammar;
3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 4th Catechism; 2d Premium for
Reading.
Morrison, V.—ist Premium in 4th Latin; ist Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Men-
tion in Botany; ist Mention in Zoology; 2d Premium in ist Algebra; ist
Mention in ist Geometry; ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Morrison, B.—4th Premium in ist Orthography.
Morrison, W.—2d Mention in 3d Algebra; 4th Premium in Christian Doc-
trine; 3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 7th Latin.
Morrison, R.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; ist Premium in 2d Catechism;
3d Mention in 3d German; 2d Premium in ist Orthography,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Monschein, J.—ist Mention in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in Rhetoric;
2d Mention in 2d French; ist Premium for Public Reading.
Menig, G.—ist Mention in ist Grammar; 4th Mention in ist Arithmetic; ist
Premium in ist Catechism; ist Premium in ist Orthography; ist Mention
in Reading.
Mason. C.—ist Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Mention in ist Algebra; Pre-
mium for Violin; £th Premium in Linear Drawing; 2d Premium in 3d
Spanish.
Myers, G.—2d Mention in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist Penman-
ship; ist Premium in ist Reading; 5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in 1st Book-keeping; ist Premium in ist Geography; 2d Premium
in United States History; Premium for Violin.
Mullane, P.—3d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in ist Geog
raphy; Premium in Elocution.
Macke, B.—ist Mention in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist
Premium for Reading.
Moody, A.—4th Mention in ist Orthography.
Meehan, A.—ist Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d
Mention in ist Geography; 2d Mention in United States History; 2d Pre-
mium in 2d Catechism.	-
Nester, F.—3d Mention in ist Reading; 3d Mention in ist United States His-
tory; 2d Mention in ist Penmanship.
Nussbaum, S.—ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in 2d Penmanship;
ist Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium
in 2d French; ist Premium in 4th Algebra; Premium for Piano.
Oxnard, R.— 3d Premium in ist Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; ist
Premium in 2d Catechism; ist Premium in ist French.
O’Brien, S.—4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in istBook-Keep-
ing; istPremium in ist Geography; ist Premium in United States History;
ist Premium in Phonography; 2d Premium in Type-Writing.
O’Kane, M.—2d Mention in ist Reading; ist Mention in ist Grammar; ist
Premium in ist Catechism; 2d Premium in ist German; Premium for
Piano; 2d Premium in Vocal Music; 3d Premium for Reading.
O’Connor, W.—2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Portillo, J.—5th Premium in Figure-Drawing; 2d Premium in Spanish-Eng-
lish; Mention in Telegraphy.
Prudhomme, E.—2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Gram-
mar; 2d Premium in 3d Catechism; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Porter, E.—3d Mention in Ancient History; 2d Premium in English Litera-
ture; 2d Mention in 6th Latin; ist Mention in ist Algebra; ist Mention in
ist Geometry.
Real, M.—ist Premium in 2d French;-Mention for Violin; ist Premium in
Linear Drawing; ist Premium in Spanish-English.
Rose, L.—Mention for Piano; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 4th Mention
in ist Penmanship.	"
Rattigan, W.—ist Premium in ist Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar;
3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2 1 Christian Doctrine.
Rebori, V—ist Mention for Reading; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d
Mention in ist Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in
United States History.
Ruffing, C.—ist Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist United
States History; 2d Mention in 2d German; Premium for Piano.
Remish, J.—2d Premium in ist Geography; 4th Premium in ist United States
History; ist Premium in 5th Latin; Mention for Piano; ist Premium in
Penmanship; ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Reilly, F.—ist Mention for Reading; 3d Mention in ist Geography; 2d Men-
tion in ist United States History.
PREMIUMS.
ioi
Reynolds C.—2d Premium in 2d Geometry; 2d Premium in 2d Algebra;
Premium for Piano.
Rogers, F.—6th mention in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Mention in English Composi-
tion; 2d Premium in Special 2d German; 4th Mention in 3d Algebra.
Robinson, K.—3d Mention in 2d French; 3d Mention in Penmanship; Men-
tion in Drawing.
Rietz, G.—2d Mention in 1st Penmanship; 4th Mention in 1st Reading; 5th
Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Premium for Zithern; Premium for Piano.
Redlich, A.—1st Premium in 2d German.
Shields, J.—4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Stubbs, C.— 1 st Mention in Ancient History; 2d Premium in English Lit-
erature; Premium in 6th Greek; 1st Mention in 6th Latin; Premium in
Elocution; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Senn, C.—1st Mention for History; 2d Mention in 1st German; 3d Premium
in Vocal Music; Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Spencer, C.—ist Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 2d Mention in 1st United
States History; ist Premium in 1st Catechism; 1st Mention in 3d German;
1st Mention in ist Penmanship.
Sokup, J.—3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in Penmanship.
Smith, H.—3d Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Mention in 4th Algebra; 3d
Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Soden, F.—1st Mention in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Stange, W—1st Premium for Reading; ist Premium in 1st Orthography;
Mention for Piano.
Schmauss, E.—2d Mention in’ 1st Arithmetic; Mention in 1st Christian Doc-
trine; 3d Mention in 1st Grammar.
Shaw, F.—2d Premium in ist Grammar; Mention in Sth Latin; Premium for
Cornet; 3d Premium in 1st Penmanship.
Sedberry, H.—2d Mention in 1st Grammar; 3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in Penmanship; 2d Mention in 1st United States History.
Servis. P.—2d Mention in 2d Reading ;md Orthography; 3d Mention in 4th
Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Geography; Premium for Progress in Reading.
Sheunemann, L.— 2d Mention in 3d Ar-thmetic.
Tewksbury, D.—1st Mention in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Talbot, J.—3d Premium in 1st Reading; 3d Mention in 1st Book-Keeping.
Tarrant, G.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution;
2d Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Thompson, W.—3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Thurston, F.—3d Mention in 2d Reading and Orthography; Premium for
Cornet.
Wabraushek, W.—2d Mention in ist Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 2d Ger-
man; tst Premium in Type-Writing; 4th Premium in Linear Drawing.
Wagoner, P.—5th Premium in ist Arithmetic.
Warner, H.—3d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Mention in 2d Reading and Or-
thography ; 4th Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Williamson, T.—2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in ist Catechism;
3d Premium in ist Penmanship.
Wieting, G.—Premium for Progress in Reading.
West, C.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 2 • Premium in Phonography; ist
Premium in 7th Latin; Premium in 3d Special German; Premium in 7th
Greek; id Premium in 4th Algebra.
Zollars, E.—ist Premium in 2d Reading and Orthography; 4th Premium in
2d Arithmetic; ist Mention for Reading; Ment’on in 3d Arithmetic.
102	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
T>ei>a,x,l;xxxexi't.
Adams, E.—4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Ackerman, W.—3d Premium in 6th Reading.	*
Boos, J.—5th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 7th Premium in 2d Reading ; 6th
Premium in 2d Grammar.
Bunker, I.—xst Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 1st Grammar;
4th Premium in Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Geography; 7th Premium
in United States History; 1st Mention in 1st Reading.
Berry, E.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 5th
Premium in 1st Orthography; Special Premium in Elocution; Premium for
Piano; Premium in Vocal Music.
Bull, J.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th
Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Barger, E.—1st Mention in 4th Penmanship; 2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Blakeslee, H.—6th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic;
5th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Baker, J.—2d Premium in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d
Mention in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d Geography.
Bloomingston, A.—3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Premium in 2d Arith-
metic.
Crotty, F.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d
Premium in 2d Grammar; 5th Premium in Christian Doctrine; 2d Mention
in 2d Orthography; Mention in Vocal Music.
Campau, C.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Or-
thography; 3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Cobbs, F.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic;
6th Premium in 1st Geography; 1st Mention in 1st Penmanship; Mention
in Vocal Music.
Carnahan, H.—3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Geogra-
phy; 5th Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Chute, F.—6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Orthogra-
phy; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship.
Doss, J.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic;
3d Mention in 2d Reading.
Doss, E.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st
Premium in Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Geography.
Doss, L.—1st Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in 4th Orthography.
Ernest, J.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d
Mention in 2d Penmanship; 1st Mention in 2d Reading.
Falvey, T.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship;
1 st Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Falvey, F.—2d Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Orthography;
2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Falvey, E.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Garrity, F. —3d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 7th
Premium in 1st Geography; Premium in Vocal Music.
Garber, F.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th
Premium in 3d Geography.

PREMIUMS.	103
Grunsfeld, I.—4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 5th Premium in 1st Geog-
raphy; 2d Mention in United States History; 7th Premium in 1st Grammar;
Premium in German.
Grimes, A.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Orthogra-
phy; 6th Premium in 2d Geography.
Graham, R.—6th Premium in 3d Reading; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Henry, W. J.—4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 1st Grammar;
3d Premium in United States History; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 2d
Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography.
Haney, 0. W.—2d Premium in 6th Reading.
Hopkins, J.—1st Premium in 6th Reading; 2d Mention in 4th Penmanship;
3d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Healy, J.—6th Premium in 6th Reading.
Inderrieden, C.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.; 4th Premium in 5th Read-
ing; 6th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Inderrieden, R.—5th Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Premium in 3d Or-
thography; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Jones, S.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Geography; 4th
Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 3d Reading.
Kelly, J.—1st Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Penmanship;
2d mention in 1st Geography; 5th Premium in United States History.
Kelly, E.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in Reading; 4th Premium in Penmanship; 7th Premium in Chris-
tian Doctrine; Premium in Elocution.
Kellner, F.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic;
Premium in Music.
Landen wich, G.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Arith-
metic; 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 5th Premium in 4th Orthography.
McPhee, W.—2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 2d Premium in 1st Arithmetic ;
5th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in 1st Geography; 5th Pre-
mium in Bible History; Premium in Elocution; Premium for Piano; Men-
tion in Vocal Music.
McVeigh, A.—3d Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Grammar;
1st Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography; Pre-
mium in German.
Murphy, F.—1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 2d Geog-
raphy; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Morgan, H.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Orthogra-
phy; Premium for Piano.
McGill, W.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th Reading;
3d Premium in 4th Orthography; 2d Mention in 3d Penmanship.
Mitchell, J.—1st Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 4th Reading;
Premium in Penmanship.
Mitchell, C.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Geography;
1st Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Mention in 3d Reading.
McNally, C.—6th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Christian
Doctrine; 2d Mention in Penmanship.
Moncada, J.—4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Pen-
manship; Premium in Linear Drawing.
McCourt, M.—5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine; 3d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Millard, W.—5th Premium in 6th Reading.
Mason, A.—6th Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Mainzer, M.—7th Premium in 5th Reading.
McNulty, J.—3d Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar;
4th Premium in 3d Orthography.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
McGuire, T.—£th Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in Pen-
manship; 7th Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention in United States History.
Mooney, C.—3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Christian Doc-
trine; 4th Premium in 3d Orthography; ist Mention in Penmanship.
Nussbaum, A.—ist Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading;
3d Premium in 3d Orthography.
Noonan, F.—5th Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in ist Reading;
6th Premium in ist Orthography; Premium for Bible History.
Nester, A.—2d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 3d Read-
ing; Premium for Piano; 3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist Mention in
Penmanship.
O’Kane, B.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; Special Premium in ist Read-
ing; 2d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Mention in ist Geography; Pre-
mium in Elocution; Premium for Piano.
Peck, F.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d
Premium in 2d Penmanship; ist Mention in 2d Reading; Premium for
Piano.
Peck, J.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Reading; Pre-
mium foi' Piano; Premium in Penmanship.
Piero, J.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 3d Arith-
metic; ist Mention in 2d Orthography; 2d Mention in 2d Reading.
Peil, F.—4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d
Premium in 3d Geography; 3d Mention in Penmanship; Mention in Ger-
man.
Paul, L.—5th Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 6th Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Perkins, H.—5th Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic;
Premium in Penmanship.
Quill, D.—3d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in 3d Reading;
5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; ist Mention in Penmanship.
Quinlin, C.—ist Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Reading;
Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Rugee, F.—5th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 5th
Premium in 2d Orthography.
Ramsey, C.—5th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Reading;
Premium in Penmanship; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography.
Salman, F.—4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 2d
Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Sweet, D.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Reading; 2d
Mention in 2d Penmanship; 2d Mention in 3d Orthography.
Scherrer, L.—ist Premium in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic;
2d Premium in Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in ist Geography; Pre-
mium in Elocution; ist Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in Vocal
Music.
Stone, D.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthography;
5th Premium-in 6th Arithmetic.
Smith, C.—6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Reading; 7th
Premium in ist Orthography.
Shoeneman, S.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Arith-
metic; 6th Premium in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Geography; Pre-
mium in German.
Tracy, L.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Williamson, A.—4th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Arith-
metic; Premium in Penmanship; Premium for Piano.
Weston, F.—ist Premium in 3d Orthography; 4th Premium in 2d Arith-
metic; 5th Premium in 3d Geography; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Forty-First Annual Commencement
OF THE C’'"
PROGRAMME.
Monday Evening June 22, 1885.
Oratorical Contest, and Exercises by the Euglossian
Association.
OPENING MARCH, -	-	-	- N. D. U. C. B.
EVENING SONG {Anton Andre), -	Chorus
ORATION—“ National Greatness,” - J. J. Conway
“THE GLADIATOR” (Personation), r J. J. Monschein
SONG—“Home! My Own Dear Mountain Home!” .
(C. Krebs.') Solo, - W. Devine
ORATION—“ Oratory and Eloquence,” - D. C. Saviers
OVERTURE, ------ Orchestra
RECITATION—“ The Sailor-Boy’s Dream,” - J. Garrity
PRAYER (“Moses in Egypt ”)—Rossini.—Song and Chorus,
(Soli), AV. Devine, E. Riley, G. O’Kane
ORATION—“ Patriotism,” -	-	- T. F. Callaghan
PERSONATION—“ The Spanish Duel,” - F. A. Dexter
ORATION—“ Progress of Our Age,” -	- D. Byrnes
CLOSING MARCH, -	-	-	- N. D. U. C. B.
	io6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	
	Tuesday, J zone 23. 8.00 A. M.,	------ Alumni Mass 10.30	Regatta 11.30 “ -	-	-	-	-	-	Alumni Meeting 1.00 P. M., ------ Alumni Banquet 2.00 “-------	Field Sports 4.45 “ - Distribution of Premiums in the Minim, Junior, and Senior Departments. 7.30 P. M. OVERTURE, ------ Orchestra CANTATA, -	-	By the Orpheonic Association SCENES FROM “JULIUS C2ESAR,” By Members cf the Thespian Society ALUMNI ORATION—“ The Triple Sovereignty of the Constitution,” -	-	- Hon. John Gibbons, ’68 CLOSING MARCH, -	-	-	- N. D. U. C. Band Wednesday, yane 24. OPENING MARCH,	N. D. U. C. Band CHORUS, -	Orpheonic Association CLASS POEM, ----- AV. II. Johnston VALEDICTORY,	-	-	- Sydney J. Dickerson AWimTC OF KOIORS, C05FERRIIG OF DECREES, ETC. GRAND CLOSING MARCH (Home! Sweet Home!), N. D. U. C. Band	
St. Mary’s Academy.
One .Mile West of the University of Notre (Dame.
----O----
NOW entering upon its 30th year of active educational work, St.
Mary’s Academy for Young Ladies has justly earned the repu-
tation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and successful
educational institutions in the United States.
The Academy buildings—large, well ventilated and commodious,
heated with steam, supplied with hot and cold water, and with fire
escapes of the latest and best kind—are beautifully and healthfully
located on an eminence overlooking the picturesque banks of the
St. Joseph River. On the dividing ridge of the St. Lawrence and
Mississippi river systems, it is in the highest and healthiest part of
the State.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical education
are taught by a Faculty of competent teachers, forty-two in number.
French and German, as well as Plain Sewing and every variety of
Fancy Needlework, are taught without extra charge. Book-Keep-
ing in regular course; Phonography and Type-Writing extra.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
is conducted on the plan of the best classical Conservatories of
Europe. Three instrumental lessons and one in theory, with five
in general singing class, weekly, are included in the regular pen-
sion; extra practice firo rata.
THE ART DEPARTMENT
embodies the same principles that form the basis of instruction in
the Art Schools of Europe. In the schools of Painting and Music,
pupils at St. Mary’s may pursue a special course.
For Catalogue, containing full information, address
Sisters of the Holy Gross,
Notre Dame P. O., Indiana.
A roo-ular omnibus line between South Bend, Notre Dame, and St. Mary’s, connects with
all trains.

108	NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
is the title of a neat 16-page paper devoted to the interests of
the students, which is published at the University every week
during term time. This journal opens a field for young writers,
who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their
talents to remain inactive.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive and literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry,
Notes on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notices of new
publications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has a
local importance for students, their parents, and all who have
attended class at the University in times past, on account of the
weekly summary of events transpiring at Notre Dame, personal
notices of former students, Rolls of Honor, Class Honors, Lists
of Excellence, etc., which appear in its columns every week.
Reports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion
of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find a
place in this paper, and keep parents and others informed on
all that concerns their children and friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors, during the coming
year, to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past,
and the encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
$ L50 PER ANNUM, Postpaid.
Address, THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.