i
I
1
I
I
I
FORTY-SECOND
Annual Catalogue
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE
For the Academic Year 1885-86.
Annual Commencement,
Wednesday, June 23, 1886.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA:
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
1886.

Board of Trustees.
——o
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C.,
President.
REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
V ice-President.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
BRO. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
Officers of the University.
--------------------0---
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
President, and Director of Studies.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C,
Vice-President.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
Senior Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C, Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C,	Bro. MAURUS, C. S. C.
Junior Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C., Bro. MARCELLUS, C.S.C.,
Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C., Bro. ELIAS, C. S. C.
Minim Department.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C, Bro. FLAVIAN, C. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M. D., Physician.
Faculty.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Christianity.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. JOHN M. TOOHEY, C. S. C.,
Spanish Language and Literature.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature
Rev. A. M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences, and Assistant Curator of the Museum.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. M. ROBINSON, C. S. C.,
Isatin and English.
Rev. VICTOR HELY, D. D, C. S. C.,
French Language and Literature.
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON, M. D.,
Human Anatomy and Physiology.
Rev. JOHN SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
German Language and Literature.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M., LL. D.,
Latin Language and Literature.
ARTHUR J. STACE, A. M., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History, and Librarian of Lemonmer ■ Library.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. B.,
Latv.
CHARLES WARREN STODDARD,
English Literature.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M, M. S.,
Rhetoric, and Lecturer on Political Economy.
ALBERT F. ZAHM, A. B.,
Mechanical Engineering.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S.,
Mathematics.
FACULTY.	7
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
Bro. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
Book-Keeping. •
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. G,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C,
Telegraphy.
Bro. STANISLAUS, C. S. C.,
Phonography.
Bro. ALBAN, C. S. C.,
German.
NEAL H. EWING, A. B,
Batin and Mathematics.
F. X. CLAFFEY,
Mathematics and Penmanship.
MICHAEL O’DEA,
Telegraphy and Type- Writing.
WILLIAM H. JOHNSTON, B. S.,
Natural Sciences.
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C., Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.,
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C, Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
Bro. MARCELLUS, C. S. C., Bro. MAURUS, C. S. C.,
Department of Fine Arts.
MUSIC.
'Bro. BASIL, C. S. C,
Organ, Piano, Guitar, and Flute.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Violin and Clarionet.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C,
Piano.
DAMIS PAUL,
Director of Band and Orchestra.
JOHN B. KINDIG, F.R.S.S. (Munich),
Vocal Music.
PAINTING AND DRAWING.
Signor LUIGI GREGORI,
Historical Painting.
H. ACKERMANN,
Architectural Painting.
Bro. ANSELM, C. S. C.,
Linear and Mechanical Dra-wing.
Boards of Examiners.
The President of the University is ex-officio President of each of the Examining- Boards.
Faculty of Arts.
Rev. Nicholas Stoffel, C. S. C.
Rev. Stanislaus Fitte, C. S. C.
Rev. Victor Hely, D. D., C. S. C.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M., LL. D.
William Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
Charles Warren Stoddard.
Faculty of Science.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C. S. C.
Arthur J. Stace, A. M.
John G. Ewing, A. M., M. S.
J. F. Edwards, A. M., LL. B.
Albert F. Zahm, A. B.
Commercial Faculty.
Rev. John M. Toohey, C. S. C.
Rev. Michael Robinson, C. S. C.
Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.
Bro. Philip Neri, C. S C.
Joseph A. Lyons, A. M.
Law Faculty.
William Hoynes, A. M., LL. B.
John Gibbons, A. M., LL. B.
Andrew J. Egbert, A. M., J. D. U. Gott.
John G. Ewing, A. M., LL. B.
T. E. Howard, A. M., LL. B.
Faculty of Civil Engineering.
Rev. John A. Zahm, C. S. C.
Arthur J. Stace, A. M., C. E.
John G. Ewing, A. M., M. S.
<11X1
0
! TN 1842 the Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Con- i
;	£ gregation of the Holy Cross, visited this place for the first
< time, having previously traveled through a great part of the
Northwest in the discharge of his missionary duties. Specially [
! interested in the promotion of education, as representative of the j
1 Congregation of the Holy Cross, a mere glance fully satisfied him	'
that this would be a most desirable ^ite for an institution of learn-
: ing; and he determined here to remain, here to establish the chief
1 house of the Congregation, here to build the
University of Notre U)onne.	I
■ In that year it was founded, and in 1844 it was chartered
j by the General Assembly of Indiana. Its growth kept pace with
। the rapid progress of the Northwest ; it exhibited an enterprise
i not unworthy of comparison with the energy and public spirit that
! peopled the prairies and built the magnificent cities of the Missis-
; sippi Valley. Building after building was erected as the needs of
i its progress seemed to require. The number of students steadily
increased, and the reputation of Notre Dame passed from State
to State until it reached the remotest parts of the country. Before
I many years elapsed the University had attained an honorable rank
among the educational institutions of the Union.
A few years ago, however, the University was subjected to a
most severe trial. April 23d, 1879, five of the buildings, including
the main one, were entirely destroyed by fire. The contents of
I the museums, libraries, class-rooms, study-halls, etc., were burned
to ashes.	But the energy and recuperative powers of the
institution were equal to the emergency. While the fire still
lingered among the smoldering ruins active preparation for the
new building was begun, and during May and all the summer
_____________________________________________ ___ _____________________

i2	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the work of constructing it was busily and uninterruptedly prose-
cuted. When September came, and the students returned, they
found on the site of the old building one of the largest and
most magnificent college edifices in the country. Since then
the needs of its growth and progress have rendered necessary
the construction of a wing on either side, while several large and
imposing buildings have been erected in the vicinity- Several
of these are so large that they do not suffer by comparison with
the main building, due allowance being made for their respective
uses. All of them are new, well lighted, thoroughly ventilated,
heated by steam, and supplied with the most useful modern im-
provements. They present a striking harmony of color, being-
built of cream-colored brick. But even a very brief description of
The Main and Ancillary Tuildings
necessarily involves a more specific reference to them severally,
and the most natural order of dealing with them assigns first place
to the
Main Building. This is five stories high, while its dimensions
are 320 x 155 feet. The distance from the ground to the electric
light just above the statue surmounting the dome is 200 feet. The
libraries, museums, art galleries, class-rooms, study-halls, dormi-
tories, lavatories, refectories, etc., are appropriately and conven-
iently arranged. On the first floor are the refectories, lavatories,
trunk-rooms, armories, etc. The refectories are richly ornamented
with mural paintings, representing many of the most celebrated
churches and buildings in the world, and beautifully illustrating
the progress of architecture. The lavatories are supplied with hot
and cold water, and have all the customary accommodations. The
armories contain about one hundred stand of arms, with bayonets,
accoutrements, etc. These arms were procured from the State,
and students of the Senior and Junior departments may make use of
them, form companies, and learn to drill. The reception parlors,
and offices of the President, Secretaries, and Prefect of Discipline
are on the main floor, as are also the study-halls, several of the
class-rooms, the telegraph office, and the students’ office. This
floor is made of tiling, while the corridor is lined with a series
aw?*’
PROSPECTUS.	13
of superb mural paintings (the work of the distinguished Roman
artist, Signor Luigi Gregori) which illustrate the leading events
in the life of Columbus, or, more particularly, such of them as history
associates with the discovery of America. Portraits of distinguished
ecclesiastics, including almost all the Catholic Bishops in the United
States, those living as well as those who have gone to their reward,
line the walls of the corridors on the floor above, and it is appro-
priately called “ the Bishops’ Gallery.” The society-rooms are
on the same floor, as are also some of the class-rooms. They are
tastefully ornamented with paintings and mural decorations, not to
mention the busts of several noted personages. The Law Library
and Lecture-room, a small museum, and the rooms of several of
the professors, as well as two large dormitories, are likewise on
this floor. The Lemonnier Library is on the third floor, and there
also is a Museum of Curiosities. Two large dormitories that cor-
respond in size and appearance to those below, together with the
rooms of students of the graduating classes and of some of the pro-
fessors occupy the rest of the floor. The music-rooms of the vocal
classes and the Department of Drawing take up the greater part
of the fourth floor. The Lemonnier Library contains about 30,000
volumes, not to mention miscellaneous objects of interest gathered
from all parts of the United States and many parts of the world.
In the Law Library are about 1,000 volumes, including many of the
British and American Reports and the leading text-books. From
three to four wide oaken staircases afford communication between
the different floors all the way from the first story to the top of
the building; and these, supplemented by several exits to the roofs
of verandas and porticoes, with ample means of descending safely
to the ground, remove all danger of personal injury in case of fire.
But the fullest precautions have been taken to guard against that
peril. With a watchman constantly on duty, water on each floor,
and hose at hand, there is absolutely no danger of fire. The halls
throughout the building are wide, high, and spacious. The many
angles which distinguish the building were planned and constructed
in accordance with - the prevailing style of architecture at Notre
Dame, which is that known as the modern Gothic. These angles
serve to give great strength and solidity to the entire building,
rendering it secure against the fury of wind and storm, not to
i4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
mention the incidental advantages of good light and perfect venti-
lation which they afford. Just east of it is the magnificent new
Music Hall. This is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and
over 100 in height. The first floor is divided into recieation and
reading rooms, the north end being for the Juniors and the south for
the Seniors. These rooms are supplied, according to their respect-
tive uses, with newspapers, periodicals, bicycles, billiard-tables,
base-ball and boat-club uniforms, etc. The second and third floors
at the north end are appropriately divided into music-rooms, and
instrumental music of all kinds is there taught. The exhibition
hall occupies the remainder of the building. In it are given the
more formal lectures, as well as concerts and dramatic entertain-
ments. Fully furnished with the scenes, accessories and decorations
appropriate to such uses, and capable of accommodating over 1,200
persons, it ranks as one of the largest and most attractive college
halls in the country.
Science Hall. The corner-stone of this imposing edifice was
laid by Bishop Watterson, of Columbus, in 1883. It is situated
a few steps south of Music Hall. The dimensions are 104 x 131
feet, and the height is three stories, or about 75 feet. It is appro-
priately divided into departments, and supplied with all the agencies
requisite to facilitate the acquisition of a complete knowledge of
the sciences. The laboratories, machinery department, lecture-rooms,
museums, engine-rooms, microscopic division, incandescent electric
light plant, etc., are admirably arranged and elegantly finished.
The Hall is fully equipped with all necessary chemicals, preparations,
specimens, charts, tools, instruments, and the innumerable acces-
sories of a great school of science. It is said to be one of the
largest buildings devoted exclusively to scientific studies in the
United States, and its merits, we trust, will entitle it to rank
among the best. The Seniors’ campus, or play-ground, a level
tract containing about ten acres, lies southeast of it. Northeast
of it is
The Gymnasium, which measures 160 feet in length and 45 in
width, and is two stories in height. It is abundantly supplied with
swings, turning-poles, horizontal bars, and other things calculated
to inspire a taste for gymnastic exercises. The north half is for
the use of the Juniors, whose campus surrounds it, while the south
PROSPECTUS.	15
half is set apart for the Seniors. Just north of the Gymnasium and
Music Hall is St. Edward’s Park; and fronting this, facing south,
is the noted
St. Edward’s Hall, a building four stories high, and 100
feet in length, by 50 in width. This is for the exclusive use of
pupils under 13 years of age. It is entirely separate from the
University, though under the same general management. The
building is new, and lacks none of the appointments suggested by
experience as useful or desirable. It is appropriately divided into
study-halls, class-rooms, society rooms, dormitories, etc. The
recreation hall is just east of it, while farther east and north
lies the play-ground. The pupils are under the immediate direction
of competent and experienced teachers—Sisters of the Congregation
of the Holy Cross.
The Infirm \ry adjoins St. Edward’s Hall on the west. In
dimensions it is 100 x 45 feet, and three stories high. The General
Office occupies a portion of the first floor. The rooms on the
floor above are kept in readiness for the reception of students who
at any time become too ill to attend class and discharge their
customary duties. The regular physician of the University and
the Sisters in charge minister to the sick in all cases.
The Church stands a little west and south of the main building.
It is generally regarded, as one of the most symmetrical and beauti-
ful church edifices in the country. In size it is 2^5 x 120 feet, and
the distance from the ground to the apex of the roof is about 125
feet. Richly ornamented with paintings, statuary, altar accessories,
architectural devices, etc., hours may profitably be given to the
examination and study of these and the multitudinous objects
of interest and beauty in which it abounds. In its tower is one of
the largest bells on the American continent. Besides, there are 32
smaller bells in the tower. These vary in size and constitute the
noted “ Chimes of Notre Dame.”
The Steam Printing Office is just north of the main build-
ing. It contains three large power presses, a folding machine, a
mailing department, two composing rooms, and all the accessories
of a first class printing establishment. The Ave Maria and the
Scholastic, two well-known and deservedly popular weekly pub-
lications, are there printed. Between it and the Infirmary is
i6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Boiler-House, from which rises the great chimney so
conspicuous in the vicinity. This building is provided with double
furnaces of the largest size—furnaces that sometimes consume 35 •
tons of coal in a day. It has, too, a full supply of engines and
other machinery. On the second floor are bath-rooms for the
students. South of and connecting with it is an annex which
contains the engine and plant recently placed there by the Edison
Electric Light Company. It is one of the most powerful of the
kind in use, and by means of it the University is supplied through-
out with the incandescent electric light. The refectories, lavatories,
study-halls, class-rooms, offices, and private rooms and apartments
are all supplied with this superior illuminating agency, not to men-
tion the crown and crescent of the great statue, which present a
most striking appearance at night, and are visible for miles, in
every direction, like a beacon-light upon the ocean.
A regularly established United States post-office is situated on
the University grounds, a short distance from the main building.
It is particularly intended for the accommodation of the University
and St. Mary’s Academy. But there are too many buildings at
Notre Dame to receive notice in this connection. Indeed so nu-
merous are they that, if brought close together, they would cover
at least four or five acres of ground. Nevertheless, the work goes
steadily forward and great improvements are made from year to
year.
Surroundings.
The University is situated about a mile and a half north of the
flourishing city of South Bend, Ind., and about eight miles south
of Niles, Mich. It is surrounded by a fertile and prosperous farm-
ing country. And, yet, by reason of its proximity to South Bend,
it combines the conveniences and accommodations of city life with
the salutary isolation, wholesome climate, and natural beauties of
the country. A great broad avenue runs directly south from the
University for a mile or more, and on both sides for half the
distance it is lined with shade trees. North and west of the Uni-
versity lie two beautiful lakes—St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s. The
area of the former is but a little less than 23 acres, while that
of the latter is about 24 acres. The ground slopes picturesquely
PROSPECTUS.	17
down to these lakes, and beautiful walks along the shores almost
surround them. On the higher ground, above the walks and
overlooking the lakes, are magnificent groves of oak, hickory,
sycamore, and other varieties of hard timber. St. Joseph River,
swift of current and tortuous of channel, sweeps grandly past the
University grounds on the west. The scenery along its steep and
timber-lined banks is bold, wild, romantic.
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position almost central with reference to
the most important cities of the Mississippi Valley. The railroads
running directly to South Bend are the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern, the Grand Trunk, the Vandalia Line, and the Michigan
Central. The road last named is connected with South Bend by a
lateral line which runs south from Niles, Mich., and passes through
the University grounds. Omnibuses and other conveyances, by
which visitors can expeditiously reach Notre Dame, may be found
on the arrival of trains at the stations of the roads indicated,
a
(Discipline.
The regulations looking to the maintenance of discipline are
sufficiently liberal to meet the reasonable expectations of all who
try to conduct themselves as gentlemen. To these the rules arc
easy of observance ; and students who do not try to behave as
gentlemen must not expect to remain at Notre Dame.
There is probably no great educational institution in the country
in which students become acquainted with one another more
intimately than at this University. And it could hardly be other-
wise, considering that they are brought, in connection with their
several duties, into daily, if not hourly, contact. This fact, too,
serves to emphasize the importance of requiring compliance with
regulations calculated to render them courteous, upright, honorable,
pure in expression, respectful to religion, and emulous to excel in
their several studies.
They are required to rise at the same time in the morning, and
they dine at the same hours during the day. All retire not later
than 9.30 o’clock p. m., and the signal for rising is given at 5.30
j 18	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I ------,----------------------------------------------------———-—.
| o’clock a. m. At proper times, too, they are expected to take
i necessary out-door exercise.
While persons of all religious denominations are admitted to
i participation in the privileges of the University, it is, nevertheless,
s a strictly Catholic institution ; and the students are required to at-
? tend divine service at stated times, as on Sundays and holydays.
; Person^ who have noted with what rigor pupils in the various
sectarian institutions are obliged to participate in daily worship, or
; u chapel exercises,” can certainly not object to the discipline in this
> regard which obtains at Notre Dame.
F
j Other regulations, which time has sanctioned as salutary, may
' be summarized as follows : i. No branch of studv shall be dis-
continued without permission of the Director of Studies. 2. No
' student shall leave the University grounds without permission of
• the President or Vice-President, or the persons delegated to repre-
I sent them. 3. The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except
to such students of the Senior department as receive from their
> parents written permission to use it. 4. The use of intoxicating
J liquors is absolutely prohibited under all circumstances. 5. Any
I	*
person who injures the property of the University must make
’ compensation for the same. 6. To guard against clandestine and
( improper correspondence, the President reserves the right to super-
* vise letters to or from students. 7. Books, periodicals and news-
1 papers are subject to the approval of the Director of Studies.
General Remarks.
j Neither pains nor expense has been spared to secure the services
'	of able, experienced and gentlemanly professors, and the authorities
■	of the University have reason to believe that their efforts in this
direction have been attended with results particularly gratifying.
; It may, too, be confidently stated that there is no educational insti-
J tution in the Union that affords students more time for study or
: better opportunity to acquire a sound and comprehensive education
| than Notre Dame offers. Its comparative isolation insures immu-
i nity from distractions of every kind ; society throws no allure-
! ments in the way of the student to tempt him from the performance
j of his duties ; association with persons of depraved tastes and bad
i
I------------------_----------------------------------------------
PROSPECTUS.	19
habits is necessarily avoided ; the surroundings are favorable to
study, and the student must learn. Even the common pride of
wholesome emulation compels him to do so. Moreover, the
course of life pursued under the salutary discipline in force can
hardly fail to establish firmness of character and habits that go to
form a moral, temperate, honorable and conscientious man.
Students are classified according to age as Seniors, Juniors, and
Minims. The Seniors range in age from 17 years upward. Their
dormitories, study-hall, refectory, lavatories, etc., are in the east
half of the University. The Juniors, whose ages range from 13 to
17 years, occupy the west portion of it. The Minims have a build-
ing exclusively to themselves. The three departments to which
students are thus assigned, are entirely separate from one another.
Seniors and Juniors are seldom brought together, except in a few
classes of the Collegiate Course. The Minims have no direct in-
tercourse with the students of the other departments.
There are ample accommodations for five hundred resident
students at the University? The ventilation is exceptionally good.
Scrupulous cleanliness prevails everywhere. The fare is abundant
in quantity, varied in quality, and always wholesome. The class-
rooms are large and well lighted, as are also the rooms used by
the literary, debating, dramatic, and other societies.
The societies devoted more particularly to the cultivation of
music and the drama have always been very popular, and many of
their members have reached a higher degree of proficiency than
mere amateurs are commonly expected to attain. This is largely
due to the fact that they are aided and stimulated by the sedulous
co-operation and encouragement of professors well qualified to
give instruction in music and the drama. Then, too, there are
societies specially intended to promote the interests of religion
and lead to a thorough knowledge of Christian doctrine. By
means of essays and debates great readiness in speaking, as well
as felicity in the expression of thought, is attained by many mem-
bers of these societies.
The students of the different departments are under the super-
vision of their respective prefects and piofessors ; and, while they
enjoy all the freedom compatible with the requirements of good
order, they are firmly held to an observance of the courtesies and
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
manners recognized by gentlemen in their intercourse with one
another. But there is very little occasion for the exercise of rigor
in this respect, as the students come almost invariably from homes
in which they have been brought up under the salutary influence
of careful and proper training. Having been taught to observe
the manners that distinguish upright and honorable young men,
it is an important aim of the discipline in force at Notre Dame
to habituate them to such manners, and to make them in all
respects thorough, accomplished and carefully educated gentle-
men—gentlemen whose lives will be useful and honorable, and
tend to reflect credit upon their parents, themselves, and the
| University.
EXPENSES.
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.
Matriculation Fee,
- $	5 00
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION,
(Latin, Greek, and Modern Languages in-
cluded,) Washing and Mending of Linens,
per Session, -	-	-	-	150 00
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of Septem-
ber; the second on the first of February.
No money 'will be refunded unless students have been dis-
missed, or withdrawn at the request of the College authorities.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $io; Scientific Course,
$io; Law Course, $io; Civil Engineering Course, $io; Com-
mercial Course, $5.
Students who spend the Summer Vacation at the Uni=
versity are charged, extra, $40.
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned
per session :
Instrumental Music — Lessons
on Piano, and Use of Instru-
ment, -	-	-	$22 50
Lessons on Violin, Guitar, Saxo-
phone, Flute, and Cornet, 12 50
C General Prin-
Vocal Lessons 4 ciples, - 5 00
( Vocal Culture, 15 00
Elocution—Special Course, - 5 00
Use of Library,	- - $ 1
Artistic Drawing, - - - - 10
Telegraphy, -	-	-	-	- 10
Type-Writing—Full Course, - 5 00
Phonography, -	-	- 10 00
Use of Philosophical and Chem-
ical Apparatus, -	-	-	5 00
Oil Painting, -	-	-	- 15 00
888
Qualitative Chemical Analysis taken at the expense of the
student.
Programme of Studies.
Preparatory Department.
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to
the Classical or Scientific Course. Students who have completed
the course receive a diploma admitting them to membership in
the Freshman Class. Those entering the department are expected
to be able to read and write, besides having an elementary knowl-
edge of Grammar. Arithmetic and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY-
FIRST SESSION-
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—As far as the end of regular Conjugations.
—Harkness.
a Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.
—Harkness.
3	Historia Sacra.
IL—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
a Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geog-
raphy of the United States, including Outlines of Physical
Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Sadlier.
5	Penmanship.
HI.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Normal Higher Arith-
metic.—Brooks.
2> The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections I and II.
—Brooks.
PREP/YRATORY DEPARTMENT.	23
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology com-
pleted.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness,
3	Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
IL—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Etymology Completed - General Rules of Syntax.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa,
including outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.
—Sadlier.
5	Penmanship.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers
(exclusive), Normal Higher Arithmetic.—Brooks.
2	The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Section HI.—Brooks.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to
Latin Composition.—Harkness.	1 •
3	Roman History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.	• •
24	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II	.—GREEK.
i Grammar—From the beginning to the Verb.— Goodwin.
2 Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek Ollendorf.—Kendrick.
III	.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Normal
Higher Arithmetic.—Brooks.
z The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections IV and V.
—Brooks.
SECOND SESSION-
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—.Second Part Completed—Introduction to Latin Com-
position.—Harkness.
3	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
IL—GREEK.
l	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 26th to 61st Lesson.— Greek Ollendorf.
—Kendrick.
3	Jacob’s Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.— Casserly.
4	Gospel of St.John—Selections by the Teacher.
HI.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Percentage to Involution—Normal Higher
Arithmetic.—Brooks.
2	The Normal Mental Arithmetic—Section VI.—Brooks.
3	Algebra (begun)—to Simple Equations—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	25
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Ambrose—Extracts.
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
5	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.
— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-Five Exercises, First Greek Book.
—Spencer's Arnold.
3	Anabasis—First Book.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	General Study of Syntax.—Harvey and Brom.
2	Exercises—Composition.
3	Ancient History—To the Partition of Alexander’s Empire.
—Fredet.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Involution to the End.—Normal Higher
Arithmetic.—Brooks.
2	The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections VII and VIII.
—Brooks.
3	Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive),
University Algebra.—-Robinson.
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.	;
I.—LATIN.	!
i St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.	,
2	Caesar—First and Second Books.	\
3	Exercises—Third Part.—Introduction	to Latin Composition !
Completed.—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
i	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.— Goodwin.	|
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.	i
—Spencer* s Arnold.	i
3	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.	i
III.—ENGLISH.
1 Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.
—Harvey and Brown.
I 2 Ancient History—From the Partition of Alexander’s Empire
j to the End.—Fredet.
I	IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 1 Algebra—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Al-
I	gebra.—Robinson.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a
strict examination in all the Studies of the three Preparatory
Years, unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty
and pronounced satisfactory.
•n
Gsllegiafee
I. Classical Course; II. Scientific Course.
Collegiate Department.
I.—CLASSICAL COURSE.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
I
2
3
4
5
I
2
3
I
2
I
2
I
2
3
4
I
2
3
FIRST SESSION.
I	.—LATIN.
Lactantius—De Opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
Virgil—Books I and II of HEneid.
S al lust—C atiline.
Prosody—First Twenty-Six Rules.— Casserly.
Exercises—Prose Composition.
II	.—GREEK.
Grammar—Syntax.— Goodwin.
Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
Memorabilia—First Two Books.
Ill—ENGLISH.
Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Narrative Writ-
ing.—Hart.
Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV—MATHEMATICS.
Algebra (completed)—From Series to the End—University
Algebra.—Robinson.
Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I—LATIN.
Virgil—Books V and VI of AEneid—Selections from Bucolics
and Georgies.	.
Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
Exercises—Prose Composition.
Prosody—Rules Completed.— Casserly.
.	II—GREEK.
Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
Cyropasdia—First Book.

30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4 Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Composi-
tion.—Spencer's Arnold.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the End, with Review
of Composition—Narrative and Descriptive Writing.—Hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the End.— Fr&det.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed)—Solid.—Loomis.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—LATIN.
1	Ovid—Books I and XIII of Metamorphoses.
2	Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Archias.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—From Rules to Versification.— Casserly.
II.—GREEK.
1	St. Gregory—Machabees.
2	Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—Essays.—Hart.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Human Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene.—Martin.
V—HISTORY.
I History of England.—JBurkds Lingard.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	31
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
2	Horace—Odes—Ars Poetica.
3	Cicero—De Senectute.
4	Exercises—Selected.
5	P rosody.— Casserly.
6	Verses.
II	.—GREEK.
1	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucidides—First Book.
3	Exercises—Selected.	'
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature (continued)—Essays.—Hart.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Trigonometry—The entire subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
V	.—HISTORY.
1 History of England.—Bttrkds Lingard.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Livy—Two Books.
2	Horace—Satires and Epistles.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
II.—GREEK.
1	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
3	Homer—Odyssey.
4	Exercises—Selected.
32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—ENGLISH.
i Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.— Lyons.
2 Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
i	Logic.—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Organography, Histology, and General Classification
of Plants.—Bessey.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
I Physics—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
i	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
2	EEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
4	Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
HL—ENGLISH.
i	Elocution.
2	Original Discourses and Criticism.—Hepburn.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
i	Ontology and Psychology.—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.—Kellerman. (Laboratory
Practice, optional.)
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
I Physics—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2	Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
33
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintillian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
i Plato—Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Theodicy and Ethics.— youin.
2	Dissertations.
IV.—HISTORY.
i Philosophy of History.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Lot-cage.
?, Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
II.—GREEK.
i Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Aristophanes—Selections.
4	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.
2	Dissertation1'.
3	Lectures by the Professor.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geolog)r and Paleontology.—Dana.
N. B.—During the four years of this course, students have
an opportunity of attending Lectures on Historical, Literary,
Philosophical and Scientific subjects.
o
Elective Studies.
Commercial—Book-keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing (Figure, Landscape, Mechanical
and Architectural).
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying.
Dogma.

II.-SCJEWTIFIC COURSE
Nor$.—The preparatory studies are the same as for the Clas-
sical Course, except that Latin or Greek may be replaced by one
of the Modern Languages.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2	, Ancient History—To Partition of Alexander’s Empire.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with the subject matter of
History.—Mitchell.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
I Algebra—(Completed) From Series (inclusive) to the end —
University Algebra.—Robinson.
2 Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
HL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i	Human Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene.—Martin.
2	Microscopy—The Manipulation of the Microscope.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
I French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.*
V	.—DRAWING.
i Linear Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with reveiw of
Composition.—Essays.—Hart.
* Students choosing to take Latin oi* Greek will follow the regular grades
of the Classical Course. For French, German and Spanish, see programme of
the Course of Modern Languages.
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
2	Ancient History—From the Founding of the City of Rome to
the end.—Fredet.
3	Ancient Geography—To correspond with subject matter of His-
tory.—Mitchell.
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed), Geometry of Space
(Solid and Spherical)—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.—Holder.
2 Demonstrations in Zoology in the Biological Laboratory.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V	.—DRAWING.
i Architectural Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i English Literature—Entire Subject.—Hart.
2	, Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
i Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis,
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Organography, Histology and General Classification
of Plants.—Bessey.
2. Demonstrations in the Biological Laboratory.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V	.—DRAWING.
i Machine Drawing.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	37
SECOND SESSION.
I—ENGLISH.
1	English Literature—(Continued).—Hart.
2	Modern History—From Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
3	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.— Gillespie.
Ill—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.—Kellerman.
2	Principles of Cellular Biology—Lectures by the Professor.
IV—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V—DRAWING.
1 Free Hand Drawing.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—MATHEMATICS.
1	General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
2	, Astronomy—To Eclipses.—Loomis.
II—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.
38	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Proper-
ties of Minerals.— Coltins,
IV	.-LANGUAGES.
1	French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V.—DRAWING.
i Theory—Isometry.— Warren's Plane Projection.
h Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading—India Ink and
Sepia.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i General Geometry and Calculus.
2	Astronomy—From Eclipses to the end.—Loomis.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Inorganic Chemistry.
HL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
— Collins.
2	. Practice in Determination of Minerals, Blowpipe Analysis and
Metallurgy.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
i	French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V.—DRAWING.
i Theory—Perspective.
2	Practice—Exercises in the Use of Water Colors.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	39
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION-
L-MATHEMATICS.
1	Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
2	Geodesy—Field Practice.—Henck.
3	Mechanics—Statics.—Smith.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Logic and General Metaphysics.—Hill.
HI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Dana.
V.—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
VI.—DRAWING.
1	Theory—Aerial Perspective and Decorative Art.
2	Practice—Use of Water Colors, etc.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Shades and Shadows.—Davies.
2	, Geodesy.
3	Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics.
.	—Smith.
H.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Special Metaphysics—Lectures by the Professor.
2	Ethics.—Hill.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—HISTORY.
i Philosophy of History.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i General Physics.
2 Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology and Paleontology.—Dana.
VI.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
Elective Studies.
In the Junior and Senior Years there are special courses in the
Natural Sciences, which are left to the option of the student.
Languages—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts—
Painting, Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music—Vocal and
Instrumental. Dogma. Ecclesiastical History.
Any student in this course is at liberty to take any of these
studies at any period of his course, provided he can do so consist-
ently with his regular studies. In addition to the regular recita-
tions and practical illustrations in the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Lectures are given throughout the course by the Professors.
* It must be remembered that the Language which is taken up at the begin-
ning of the Freshman Year must be continued to the end of the course, or
till satisfactorily known.
Law—Civil Engineering—the Commercial
Course—Modern Languages.
i
Special Courses.
I.—LAW.
Numerous changes have recently been macle in this Department.
The regular course has been extended to a period of three years;
the standard of studies has been raised to the most approved plane,
and the Lecture system has been substituted for the compulsory
use of text-books. It may now be confidently claimed that no
Law School in the country offers superior facilities for acquiring
a thorough and practical knowledge of the Law. Students of the
Law Department pass through a course that qualifies them to
undergo the most searching examination for admission to the
Bar in any part of the Union. No special preparation is requisite
for matriculation. Any person who is 17 years of age, and has a
fair English education, is eligible. Young men may enter the
Department as students at any time during the year; though, of
course, it is more desirable to do so at the beginning of the session.
The diploma admits, without examination, to the Bar of Indiana,
subject to the Constitutional provision referred to in the following
extract from a letter recently received from the Clerk of the
Supreme Court:
“I am directed by the Chief Justice to say that all graduates [of the Law
Department of the University of Notre Dame] will be admitted, without an
examination, upon proper motion, at any time when the Court is in Session,
subject, of course, to the Constitutional provision that applicants for admission
shall be voters in the State of Indiana.”
Methods of Instruction.
Instruction is given by means of daily Lectures, with accompany-
ing examinations, and the trial from week to week of Moot-Court
cases. The order of procedure in these cases corresponds as closely
as practicable to that followed in the trial of actual cases and suits
44	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
in the regular courts of law and equity. The Lectures embrace
the various subjects, and deal with all the leading topics of Contracts,
Torts, International, Constitutional, Commercial, Maritime and
Criminal Law, as well as with Medical Jurisprudence, Common
Law and Equity Pleadings and Practice, Code Pleadings and
Practice, Evidence, etc.
Each candidate for a degree is required to prepare and submit to
the Faculty a thesis of at least 30 folio pages upon some legal sub-
ject, the selection of which is left to himself. This should be
submitted about a month before graduation, and it must be satis-
factory both in substance and manner of treatment. The element-
ary text-books may be read collaterally with the Lectures, though
these are more comprehensive than in other Law Schools, and
cover all subjects likely to arise in connection either with actual
practice or the most searching examination. They deal with all
the living branches of the Law, and the student who writes full
notes of them, and diligently studies the same, acquires a complete
and reliable knowledge of its principles. The decisions of the
courts are based upon these principles, and it is the aim of the
course of instruction at Notre Dame to impress them upon the
mind in so clear and thorough a manner that they are not likely
ever to be forgotten. Their relations to one another are pointed
out, the growth of subordinate principles from them is explained,
and their application to actual or hypothetical cases emphasizes the
important office they serve in furnishing a key to complicated
questions of law and equity.
While the Lectures impart as general a knowledge of the Law
as students require for admission to the Bar and practice in the
courts, it is nevertheless deemed advisable to urge them to pursue
collaterally a course of reading. The works here named are
recognized and recommended as among the most serviceable and
popular of
Standard Law (Books:
Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries, Walker’s American
Law, Reeve’s or Schouler’s Domestic Relations, Angell and Ames
on Corporations, Parsons on Contracts, Williams or Washburn on
Real Property, Story on Agency, Stephen’s or Gould’s Pleading,
LAW COURSE.
45
Greenleaf on Evidence, Edwards or Story on Bailments, Parsons
on Bills, Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, Lindley or Parsons on
Partnership, Bishop on Marriage and Divorce, Bishop on Crim-
inal Law, Willard’s Equity, Story’s Equity Pleadings, Cooley or
Addison on Torts, Cooley on Taxation, Cooley’s Constitutional
Limitations, Schouler’s Personal Property, Redfield on Wills
Wheaton’s International Law, Story’s Conflict of Laws, Benjamin
on Sales, Parsons’ Maritime Law, Dillon on Municipal Corpora-
tions, Sedgwick on the Measure of Damages, Freeman on Judg-
ments, Freeman on Executions, Bouvier’s Law Dictionary, Taylor’s
Medical Jurisprudence, Ewell’s Evans on Agency, Perry on
Trusts, Benjamin’s Chalmers Digest—Bills, Notes and Checks,—
Hutchinson on Carriers, Sutherland on Damages, etc.
All these books may be made available in actual practice, and
consequently students need incur no special loss in purchasing
as many of them as they can find time to read. However, this is
a matter which, to a great extent, is left optional with themselves.
It is not regarded as essential to read in connection with the Lectures
more than a few of the works indicated in the preceding list. The
Lectures are prepared with reference to this fact; and one of the
objects in view in so preparing them is to place at a minimum
figure
The Expenses
incident to pursuing the study of Law at Notre Dame. It does
not admit of doubt that many bright and worthy young men in
different parts of the country are deterred from gratifying a
cherished ambition to engage in the study of Law by the apprehen-
sion that they cannot meet the expenses necessarily incident to
doing so. They suppose that the single item of books demands an
outlay of from $150 to $300. But that supposition is erroneous.
The study of Law can be pursued at Notre Dame without any
noteworthy expense, aside from such as is voluntarily incurred. In
that particular, there is probably no university in the country that
surpasses this in the inducements offered to students. The Law
Library of the University, which contains all the standard text-
books, as well as the Reports of all the States and Territories,
and of all the Federal Courts, is free and open at all reasonable
46
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
hours to the students of this Department. The Law Lecture
room is scrupulously neat, well lighted, and furnished with
desks for the students. It is one of the best, most commodious
and most comfortable rooms in the main building. While the
incidental expenses are merely nominal, the accommodations, which
include board, lodging, washing, etc., are excellent in all respects;
and the course of study covers a period of ten months in the year.
In other well known institutions the annual duration of the pro-
fessional courses is from six to nine months. In view of all the
facts, it is believed that the study of law is attended with less expense
here than in any other well-known law school. But it is hardly
necessary to indicate more particularly in this connection the special
advantages offered to students of this Depaitment.
Course, of Study.
The Law Course covers a period of three years. But in cases
where students are entitled to advanced standing, by reason of pre-
vious study, or where they daily attend two Lectures, they may be
graduated in two years or less, providing they satisfactorily acquit
themselves in the final examination. The authorities have been
actuated by commendable motives in extending the Law Course
to three years. In the first place, they recognize that the standing
of the professions has been lowered by a too indiscriminate admis-
sion to them of persons of limited education. And they are aware
that to such persons, in most cases, a professional life offers numer-
ous disappointments, and but few laurels. It frequently proves to
be a life barren of results, and the fact is usually discovered too
late to admit of being effectually remedied. Having made their
choice, they find themselves, as a rule, subject to circumstances
that forbid a change of occupation. It is also recognized that,
generally speaking, young men do not make amends for defects
in their education after faking upon themselves the stern duties of
practical life, and becoming involved in the engrossing cares and
ceaseless activities of business. To guard against such disappoint-
ments and mistakes, it is sought to make graduation in this Depart-
ment a sufficient test of the education and professional qualifications
of the student to assure him that he is making a proper choice, and
LAW COURSE.
47
to assure the profession that he may be admitted to its ranks with-
out detracting from its dignity, compromising its honor or lowering
its standard.
With a view, therefore, to supplying young men with a good
general education, as well as with thorough professional knowledge,
all the departments of the University are open to them. With-
out extra expense, they may enter the classes and pursue the
studies of the Scientific and Classical courses, and be graduated in
the same, if they so desire. As they find time and have inclination,
they may study Mathematics, the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Literature, Ancient and Modern Languages, etc., in connection
with the Law. And thus the authorities of the University seek to
meet the most exacting expectations of its friends, and the public
generally, by assuring to students of this Department, not onlv
qualifications of a high order in their profession, but also a sound
general education.
Such are some of the considerations that have actuated the
authorities to extend the Law Course to a period of three years.
Students of this course mingle with the other students of the Uni-
versity, and, without distinction, have the same advantages, privi-
leges and accommodations. They are likewise subject to the same
rules of discipline. These rules have been adopted with reference
to the acknowledged fact that a high moral standard is an important
requisite to an honorable and successful career. Thev are cal-
culated to shape the lives of students in accordance with such
standard, and to inculcate at the same time a wholesome tone of
manly dignity and honor, as well as a just appreciation of the
claims of social and professional ethics.
II.—CIVIL ENGINEERING
Candidates for admission into this Course must exhibit proof
of proficiency in the art of Drawing as laid down in the Scientific
Course, and must pass a thorough examination, such as is re-
quired of Scientific graduates, in Chemistry, Physics, Geology,
Mineralogy, and in the several branches of Pure and Mixed
Mathematics. The Course of Civil Engineering^ can then be
completed in one year, as follows :
FIRST SESSION.
I._DRAWING.
i Theory—Shades, Shadows, etc.—Advanced Course in Perspec-
tive.
2 Practice—Topographical Drawing.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
I Civil Engineering—(Begun).—Mahan.
2	. Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
3	Pure Mathematics—Calculus Reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—DRAWING.
i Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone-
Cutting.
IL—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
i	Civil Engineering—Concluded.—Mahan.
2	Lectures on Roads and Bridges.	■
3	Hydraulics.
III.-COMMERCIAL COURSE.
This Course requires two years’ study for graduation: it includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United States
History, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-keeping, and
Commercial Law,—in other words, all the branches of a complete
business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country, especially
of the great West in which we live, this course is the most prac-
tical, and one of the most important that an educational institution
can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or the means to take a
complete College course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of
study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such
studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The training
resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to
the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received
the most careful attention from the officers and Commercial
Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the grad-
uates of this course a more complete business training than can be
obtained in any purely commercial college. Believing that a busi-
ness education includes something more than a mere knowledge of
Book-keeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few
weeks, the authorities have extended this course over two years,
the shortest time in which. the studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a student desire during this period
to pursue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. General History
and Linear Drawing are especially recommended to the students
of this course. They will also in the future have the opportunity
of attending an elementary course of the Physical and Natural
Sciences. Many commercial students find it also to their advantage
to take up the study of German or French, for which there are
the amplest facilities. A talented and studious young man may
50	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
thus in the course of two years find himself in possession of a most
valuable practical education, which will fit him to take his place in
the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
BOTH SESSIONS.
i Arithmetic- -Written and Mental—Same as in First Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Year Preparatory of Clas-
sical Course.
©
3	Geography—The amount included in both Session^ of Collegiate-Preparatory
Course (Eclectic Series).
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate
Preparatory Course.—Sadlier.
5	Reading and Orthography.
6	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter Writing—Same as in First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.
5	Penmanship.
!	SECOND SESSION.
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—(Completed)—Asin 2d Session of Second
Year Preparatory.
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as in 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory
in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.
5	Commercial Law.
6	Penmanship.
Optional Studies.—Phonography, Telegraphy, Type-Writing, General
History, and Linear Drawing.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:
—Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by
Double Entry; ist Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of
MODERN LANGUAGES.	51
Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, On account of Others;
3d Series, Buying and Selling the Same on Joint Account; 4th
Series, Importing and Exporting on Private Account, on Account
of Others, and Account of Ourselves and Others in Company; 5th
Series, Receiving and Forwarding Merchandise, the Management
and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling, Re-
mitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of
Exchange, Banking — Private and Joint Stock, — Steamboating,
Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’
Accounts. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Law. Partic-
ular attention is paid to the explanation of the LawT of Negotiable
Paper.
IV.—MODERN LANGUAGES.
GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1 Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—One Hundred Exercises.
3 Exercises in Reading, Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND SESSION
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—From the 100th to the 200th
Exercise.
2	Exercises in Reading, and Written Translations.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Second German Book.
2	German Reader.
3	Written Exercises—Daily.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I
2
3
i
2
3
4
i
3
4
i
2
3
4
i
2
3
4
SECOND SESSION.
Ahn’s Second German Book—To the end.
German Reader—Continued.
Written Exercises—Daily.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.	!
Ahn’s Third German Book—75 Exercises.	1
Leseubungen und Erklarung ausgewahltei* Stucke aus Bone’s Lesebuch, ।
erster Theil.	;
Deutsche Grammatik—die Formenlehre.	i
!
Taglich eine schriftliche Aufgabe.	i
SECOND SESSION.	I
Ahn’s Third German Book—To the end.	1
Bone’s Lesebuch—Fortsetzung.
Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Formenlehre.
Taglich eine schriftliche Aufgabe.	i
1
FOURTH YEAR.	;
j
FIRST SESSION.	1
Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
Sprachliche und sachliche Erklarung ausgewahlter Stucke aus Bone’s Lese-
buch, zweiter Theil.	'
Deutsche Grammatik—die Satzlehre.
Aufsatzlehre.
SECOND SESSION
Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the End.
Lesen, Erklaren und Declamiren ausgewahlter Stucke aus Bone’s Lesebuch, J
zweiter Theil.
Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Satzlehre.	'
Aufsatzlehre, und Einleitung zur deutschen Literatur.	;
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
FRENCH.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fiva’s Elementary French Reader—Twenty Pages.
3	Orthography.
SEC ONE SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty-nine Lessons—Regular
Verbs.
2	De Fiva’s Reader—To the End.
3	Orthography.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty-five Lessons, and from page 261 to page
357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet’s Literature.
3	Letter-Writing.
SECONE SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to the end of First Part, and
from page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Etymology.
2	Litterature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
SECONE SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Teldmaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other
Modern Languages—especially the Spanish, a knowledge of
which is now becoming so useful to students from the Southern
and Southwestern States and Territories.
MiSGellaneeus.
Science Hall, Notre Dame. Corner-Stone laid, 1883; Completed, 1885.
■ Miscellaneous.
CP ost= Graduate Course.
The students in this Course occupy themselves with Philosophy,
History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law, Medicine,
and Civil Engineering are optional studies of the Course.
Civil Engineering.
i
i The Course of Civil Engineering has been established of late
I	.
| years, and it affords advanced students the opportunity of fitting
themselves for the practice of this eminent profession.	|
j The department of Physical and .Natural Sciences.
I	I
!
! Notre Dame has al wavs given special attention to the cultivation
| of the Physical and Natural Sciences, but during the past few
| years extra efforts have been made in this direction, with a view of
affording to her students all the facilities and advantages that may
be found elsewhere. A large and commodious building, in the
Romanesque style, known as “ Science Hall,” has been erected for
this purpose, and it is the intention of the authorities to make it
as perfect in all its appointments as any similar institution in the
country. It is one hundred and thirty-one feet long by one
hundred and four feet deep, and proportionally high. There are
upwards of twenty-five spacious, well-lighted and well ventilated
rooms in the building, nearly all of which are designed either as
lecture rooms or laboratories for the various branches of exper-
imental science.
The building has been carefully planned for the purpose for
which it is to be used, and embodies in its construction all the
improvements and conveniences to be found in -the most approved
scientific structures of this country and Europe. The ground
plans given herewith will show the size and general arrangement
of the various rooms, and their connection with the Museum
proper.
58	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Special attention has been given to make the building convenient
both for professor and student. The laboratories, lecture-rooms
and cabinets are so connected with each other, and with the grand
apartments set aside for the museum, that specimens and apparatus
are always at hand when desired, and where they can be used.
Ground-Plan (Science Hall). Basement.
A. — Store Room.	G.—Room for Dynamo-electric Ma-
B.—Workshop.	chines.
C.—Metallurgical Laboratory.	H.—Engine Room.
D.—Boiler Room.	I, J, K, L, M.—Laboratories for Spe-
E, F.—Laboratories of Mechanical	cial Work.
Engineering.
The students of Natural History have their specimens systematic-
ally arranged in rooms adjoining their laboratories, whilst the stu-
dents- of Chemistry and Physics have their cabinets conveniently
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
posal of the student, and he is expected to verify, by observation
and experiment, what has not been experimentally illustrated in
the lectures he has attended.
In all these departments, as well as in those of Physics and
Chemistry, special stress will be laid on practical work, and a stu-
dent’s proficiencv will be estimated by his record of observation
and experiment in the laboratory and workshop.
Ground-Plan (Science Hall). 2d Floor.
A, B, C, D, E, F.—Museum.
G.—Biological Labo-atory.
H.—Biological Lecture Room.
I.—Geological and Mineralogical
Lecture Room.
J.—Geolog:cal and Mineralogical
Laboratory.
In the study of Botany, Zoology, and Physiology, each student
is provided with a microscope and the necessary accessories, and
most of his time is spent in microscopic study, under the direction
of the professor.
In Geology and Mineralogy the system is the same. The stu-
Physical Laboratory.
MISCELLANEOUS.	63
dent commences work in the laboratory at once, and thus early
becomes acquainted with the various minerals, rocks, fossils, etc.
The blowpipe, microscope, polariscope and clinometer are in con-
stant use to verify what has been learned in the lecture-room, and
to fix it on the memory.
In the department of Mechanical Engineering there are fully
equipped workshops, for wood and metals. Steam engines and
dynamo-electric generators, and motors of various types and sizes
furnish the power required, and afford the students special facilities
in making experiments concerning the various forms of energy.
A Photographic Laboratory is also fitted up in the building,
where the student is enabled to learn, practically and in a short
time, the art of modern Photography, and thus prepare himself
for professional work in the studio.
Rooms have likewise been set aside for Assaying and Metal-
lurgy, and it is the purpose of those in charge to leave nothing
undone to make the work in this department compare favorably
with that accomplished in the others.
Additions of apparatus, specimens, and books for reference are
constantly being made to the various departments, and no effort
will be spared to make “ Science Hall ” a recognized center of
thorough work in genuine practical science.
Languages.
' It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre
Dame to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of
which is so necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German language—the classes of which are so numerously
attended—has been taught by five instructors during the past scho-
lastic year. The number of students attending the German classes
is becoming greater every year. The study of French is recom-
mended to all students of the Collegiate Course. The course of
Spanish will receive special attention in the future, and other
modern languages may be taught when required.
Telegraphy} and Type=Writing.
These branches invite the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. Both departments are fully equipped for
64	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
practical work. The Telegraphic Department is superintended
by a skillful electrician, and the classes are under the personal in-
struction of an experienced operator who has seen much actual
service and held responsible positions on railroad work.
In the Type-writing Department the machines in use are first-
class Remingtons, with the latest improvements. The instructor,
besides being a practical operator, also thoroughly understands the
mechanism of the Type-writer, and is capable of adjusting and
keeping it in order.
Phonography, or Short=Hand}
of which Dr. Johnson said “ its usefulness is not confined to any
particular science or profession,” is of incalculable benefit in the
higher branches of education, enabling its possessor to take ver-
batim notes of lectures, etc. It is adaptable to the English, French,
German, or Spanish languages. With a good English education
it is a profession in itself, and one not likely to be overcrowded
for years to come. First-class phonographers and type-writers are
always sure of employment, and pupils in both branches here find
every facility to fit them for the highest grades of practical work.
Phonography and Type-writing have of late come into gen-
eral use in legal and commercial work—in the court, the law office,
and the counting-room; in business houses, banks, insurance and
railroad offices, etc.,—and for first-class stenographers especially
the demand exceeds the supply. A knowledge of these useful arts
will therefore prove a strong recommendation for confidential and
lucrative positions.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame
in the facilities afforded to students for acquiring proficiency in
elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises are practical,
and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety. These exercises
are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is peculiarly adapted for the
purpose, being eligibly situated, large, and elegantly furnished.
The exercises constitute an important part in the studies of young
men who strive to cultivate, with success, literature, oratory and
MISCELLANEOUS	65
the dramatic art. The approved methods of stimulating and de-
veloping the natural elocutionary powers are called into requisition
as occasion seems to warrant. To this end the drama receives
a due share of attention; from time to time an appropriate tragedy
or comedy is rendered by students, on the stage of the new
Music Hall, with all the customary accessories and appointments
used in connection with dramatic performances. Four public ex-
hibitions are given during the year, and public literary exercises
are held seven times during the same period. An oratorical con-
test is one of the notable features marking the close of the year.
For the purpose of encouraging and stimulating students to put
forth their best efforts, premiums and gold medals are offered to
those who most distinguish themselves. When all these thing's are
duly considered, there need be no hesitation in repeating that “no
educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame in the j
facilities offered to students for acquiring proficiency in elocution.” i
Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to prepare for the Medical profession will
find opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Stu- j
dies in this department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy, and
Surgery. As a preparatory Course, that which is given here,
under L. Neyron, M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de Medecine, ■
Lyons, leaves nothing to be desired.
(Drawing and (Painting.
The University, which is becoming every year more widely and
favorably known as an art center, enjoys ample facilities for im-
parting instruction in this branch. It possesses a large number of
models, a fine studio, and qualified and zealous teachers of the art.
The eminent artist Signor Luigi Gregori, of Rome, is still in
charge of this Department.
Music.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has
able Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conserv-
atory system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent
66	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Quartette, and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments are some
of the leading features of the Instrumental Music Department.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and which
has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students during the
past few years, will receive even more careful attention in future,
and it is hoped that this branch will become every year more
popular. Students will learn with pleasure that, during this
coming year, the vocal classes will be under the direction of the
distinguished virtuoso Prof. Kindig, a graduate of the Royal
Conservatory of Munich.
Lecture Course.
Amongst the lectures for the coming Scholastic year we take
pleasure in announcing a course of twelve, by Prof. Albert
Gunnlbgsen, on the subject of Comparative Philology. Prof.
Gunnldgsen, who has devoted a life-time to the study of Hn-
■ guistics, is well known as a contributor to prominent literary
and scientific periodicals in Europe and America.
’ A course of twenty lectures, on Political Economy and Po-
litical Science, will also, during the winter, be delivered by Prof.
' John G. Ewing, of the regular Faculty.
Leading=Looms.
The lower floor of the new Music Hall is divided into large and
neatly furnished Reading Rooms for the benefit of the Senior and
Junior departments. These reading rooms are supplied with
books and periodicals from the library, and students have access to
them during the hours of recreation.
The Lemonnier Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers over 25,000 volumes. A reading room has been opened
in connection with the Library, in which the leading periodicals
of Europe and America are to be found on file. The members of
the Library Association desire to give their Alma Mater a collec-
tion of books which can stand comparison with those possessed by
any other educational establishment of the United States; therefore
they call on the friends of the University to assist them by dona-
tions of books, pamphlets, periodicals and manuscripts. All con-
tributions should be addressed to the Librarian of the Lemonnier
Library, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ACADEMY QF MUgJQ. Dedicated June 21, 1862,
l
/
Minim Department.
POR the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen,
there has been established a Department to which the most
scrupulous attention has always been paid by the College au-
thorities; it is known as the Minim Department, and has ever
: been one of the greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as well
as to all persons visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an English education is here imparted, together with
i a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French and German. Vocal
Music and Drawing form no extra charges. The pupils of this
Department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under whose
maternal and tender care they pass nearly the entire day. During
the hours of recreation, and while in the refectory and dormitory,
thev are under the charge of kind and efficient Prefects.
discipline.
The following is the order of the day: Rising, at half-past six;
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercise in the Campus; half-past seven, study; half-
past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to twelve,
toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-past one, study;
half-past three, recreation and lunch; half-past six, supper and rec-
, reation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that
while the Minims devote never less than six hours a day to study,
; they are never more than two hours in succession in the class-room.
The recreation and exercise in the fresh air, between each two
hours of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to
their classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the hours of
recreation, as well as in the class-room and study-hall. The pres-
ence, however, of the Prefects is far from being a restraint on the
amusements of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Prefects to-

’ MINIM DEPARTMENT.	69
insist that their young charges shall always keep within the limits
of the strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take part in all
sports, organize games, and do everything in their power to foster
i a love of healthful exercise. The play-ground consists of a fine
level, four-acre field, well supplied with turning-poles, swings,
■	ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all other necessary gymnastic
apparatus. That the boys make good use of them can best be
;	seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably
■	attracts the notice of visitors.
:	Connected with the play-ground is a fine brick play-hall, 160
feet long, heated by steam. There the boys play in rainy or cold
weather. In this building is one of the finest hand-ball alleys at
' Notre Dame. Adjoining the grounds is a large orchard to which
| the Minims have access in proper season. They are allowed so
many privileges of a similar nature that, among the students of
:	the other departments, they are often pleasantly spoken of as the
i “privileged class of the little college world.” The Sisters preside
1 at the toilet; they clean and mend the clothing, see to all the needs
j and to the comfort and convenience of the Minims. Baths are
taken every Saturday. Underclothing is changed regularly twice a
■	week. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that
the clothing- be suitable for the season. As the Sisters take entire
charge of all these details, boys six years of age are received.
They are separated from the larger Minims, and enjoy all desir-
able privileges.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim Department: that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to
supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Association,
which has been established with a view to give the pupils a start,
as early as possible, in Elocution. The Society is in charge of one
of the Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
talent of these interesting young orators Meetings are held once
a week, after school hours. These meetings are a source of pleas-
ure as well as of profit. The members prepare original composi-
7o	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
tions, deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only the
best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted tO’ mem-
bership. To encourage this young Literary Society a Gold Medal |
is annually awarded at Commencement, for Elocution, to the most I
deserving member.----------------------------------------------I
General	Remarks.	;
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much milder J
than that which is	suited to students more advanced	in	age.	Re-	i
course is scarcely	ever had to	punishment.	Those	in	charge	f,
endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing	§
to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose conduct and	jj
application to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads of	'
Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic, a paper pub-	J
fished weekly at Notre Dame.	To find his name mentioned	in	i
these rolls is found to be as great	a reward for the deserving pupil,	\
as its non-appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.	;
Then, again, there is a Gold	Medal awarded at the end	of	!
two full years to all whose deportment has been unexceptionable
during that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim >
immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape his :
conduct with a view to receiving; an “Honor.” The greatest care :
O	Op
is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to *
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort is made to j
foster respect and affection for parents, to whom they are expected i
to write once a week.	>
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their ?
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording ample '
accommodation for over one hundred pupils, is devoted to their i
use. It is four stories in height, ninety-five feet long and forty- |
five wide; heated by steam, supplied throughout with the Edison	!
incandescent electric light, and provided with hot and cold	i
water. The ceilings in the Study Hall, Class Rooms, and k
sleeping apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large i
and numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The i
Study Hall commands a charming view from each of its eleven |
Study Hall.
72	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
large windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary, beautiful
pictures, choice plants and beautiful flower caskets, etc. Besides
the pleasure the Minims derive fiom studying in this bright, beau-
tiful hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by coming into contact
with such refining objects. Fronting the building is a handsome
park, which, with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers,
adds not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well as to
the happiness of the Minims.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and
others who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that while the Minims have every possible advantage to aid
them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a most
happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom as they
would under the care of their mothers.
---0---
EXPENSES.
Entrance "Pee, -	-	-	-	- 8 5 00
! BOARD, TUITION, etc., per Session of Five -
! Months, -	-	-	-	~	125 00
i
J The only extra in this Department is Instrumental Music. The
j	charge per session for Piano lessons, and the use of the instrument,
1 is $12.50. The charge for Violin lessons, per session, is $6.25.
(
I	•
J Pupils who remain during the two Summer Vacation months
are charged, extra, $10.
Each pupil on entering should have 6 shirts, 4 pairs of drawers,
6 night-shirts, 12 pocket-handkerchiefs, 6 pairs of winter stockings,
6 pairs of summer stockings, 6 towels, 2 hats or caps, 2 pairs of
boots or shoes, 2 suits .of clothes for winter, 2 suits for summer,
1 overcoat, combs, brushes, etc.
From September 1885, to June 1886.
]	Adelbperger, Edward R........................Indiana.
>	Austin, William H............................Illinois.
Ackerman, Wm. H ............................Indiana.
Ackerman, J. Hubert.........................Indiana.
•!	Ackerman, Daniel J...........................Illinois.
,	Adams, Albert................................Illinois
'	Ancheta, J. A................................New Mexico.
'	Ashton, Frank J..............................Illinois.
I	Arts, William................................Iowa.
Aubrey, William.............................Illinois.
Ashford, John...............................Nebraska.
,	Akin, William B..............................Indiana.
Akin, J. M..................................Indiana.
Atkinson, Wm. Arthur........................Texas.
Berry, Joseph St. Elmo......................Colorado.
»	Becerra, Tiburtius...........................Mexico.
•	Bloomingston, Albert.........................Illinois.
>	Benson, George A.............................Wisconsin.
JBarke, Henry...........................................New York.
Benes, J oseph..............................Illinois.
.	Benes, Otto..................................Illinois.
•	Baur, Joseph.................................Michigan.
1	Brabrook, George.............................Illinois.
i	Bodley. Edward P.............................Illinois.
'	Blakeslee, Harry.............................Illinois.
*	Bolton, Leslie C.............................Iowa.
1	Bull, John...................................Missouri.
!	Brownson, Philip H...........................Michigan.
Boos, Jacob.................................Indiana.
Baca, Felix.................................Colorado.
Bowles, C. AV...............................Colorado.
Bowles, E. V................................Colorado.
Bates, J. C.................................Colorado.
Bailey, William.............................Colorado.
Burns, James................................Indiana.
Byrnes, Daniel..............................Minnesota.
Byrnes, Roger...............................Minnesota.
i	Brown, Fred L................................Wisconsin,
j	Burns, Michael...............................Ohio. •
,,	Burritt,	Evart J.............................Illinois.
I	Benner,	Edward J............................Illinois.
I	Benner,	Clarence............................Illinois.
J	Bunker,	Irving L............................Missouri.
I	Borgschulze, Wm. A...........................Kentucky.
ij	Bacigalupo, Lee..............................Tennessee.
ft
74
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Breen, J. Walter..
Browne, Albert A
Becker, B. F.....
Burke, Vernon H.
Barger, Eugene L
Bryan, Bert......
Burke, P. E......
Boland, Halsey...
Boland, John ....
Boland, J........
Indiana.
Texas
Illinois.
Ohio.
Iowa.
Michigan.
Minnesota.
New York.
Ohio.
Crowe, Charles.....
Crowe, John........
Crawford, Jep D....
Chapin, Paul.......
Colina, Manuel.....
Cleveland, Albert. ..
Campau, C. C.......
Ciarcoschi, Salvatori
Curtis, William..,..
Crotty, Fred H.....
Coady, Edmund. . ..
Congdon, Willis R..
Cumming.', M. P. ..
Courtney, Joseph.. .
Cleary, J. T.......
Collins, Walter J . ..
Collins, William E..
Cobbs, Frank.......
Cooper, A. A.......
Crilly, George S... .
Cain, Cort.........
Cain, Lew..........
Cartier, Warren....
Cartier, George....
Cartier, Dezire....
Cusack, Joseph A...
Cusack, John P....
Chute, L.P.........
Chute, S. H........
Carbajal, Pedro....
Combe, Fred J......
Combe, Frank B. ..
Combe, Charles B..
Cavaroc, Charles P.
Clark, Joseph......
Coles, John J......
Craig, George H....
Coad, J. Frank.....
Conlon,. John......
Chaves, Solero.....
Cooney, William...
Corbett, Louis D...
Campbell, Stafford..
Campbell, Edgar...
Chapelle, Alexander.
*.
0
Michigan.
Michigan.
Texas.
Colorado.
Mexico.
New York.
Dakota.
Illinois.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana.
. Indiana.
Indiana.
Kentucky.
Missouri.
Missouri.
Michigan.
. Iowa.
Illinois.
. Illinois.
Illinois.
. Michigan.
Michigan.
Michigan.
. Nebraska.
.Nebraska.
. Minnesota.
. Minnesota.
.Mexico. ,
. Texas.
.Texas.
.Texas.
. Illinois.
.W. Virginia.
, Michigan.
. Illinois.
. Nebraska.
. Ohio.
. Mexico.
. Ohio.
. Minnesota.
.Texas.
.Texas.
.Wisconsin.


I
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.

Cassidy, Maurice
Connor, W......
Carey, Thomas..
Comerford, J....
Cavanaugh, J....
J
Indiana
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Indiana.
Ohio.
Durlacher, William..
Durlacher, Frank....
Dunford, Frank M..
Dunford, George...'.
Dewald, Matthew...
Dougherty, James...
Dohany, John.........
Doss, John E.........
Doss, Ernest J.......
Doss, Samuel L.......
Davis, N. G..........
Duffield, Alfred.....
Dillon, Ed. F........
Duffin, Charles......
DeHaven, George W
Dexter, Frank H....
Daley, Louis P.......
Dolan, Michael.......
Darragh, Edward....
Dickinson, James R.
Danielson, Fred......
*
Decker, Edward L
Dunning, Louis..
Dooling, Frank E.
De Groot, J.....
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Tennessee.
Iowa.
New Mexico.
New Mexico.
New Mexico.
Michigan.
Ohio.
Iowa.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Missouri,
Illinois.
Iowa.
. Minnesota.
Wyoming.
. Nebraska.
Ohio.
Ohio.
. Ohio.
. Indiana.
. Indiana.
. Illinois.
. Indiana.
Estrada, Santiago...
Edge worth, Richard
Ewing, Edward S.. .
Emmons, J. F.........
Epples, Charles......
Egan, Elmer..........
Mexico.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Michigan..
Illinois.
Illinois.
Frame, Roderick J
Falvey, Thomas...
Falvey, Frank....
Falvey, Ed. B....
Frash, Omer T....
Forbes, Frank....
Fehr, Frank......
Finlay, Charles E.
Fisher, John E ....
Ford, Joseph......
Fitzharris, Arnold
Farmer, Edward...
. Colorado.
. Indiana.
, Indiana.
.Indiana.
.Indiana.
. Montana.
.Kentucky.
.Missouri.
. Colorado.
, Montana
.Iowa.
Mexico.
New York.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Fogarty, Edward.............................Indiana.
Fontanelle, Louis............................Illinois.
Fontanelle, Adolph...........................Illinois.
Finckh, Albert...............................Ohio.
Flood, Thos..................................Indiana.
Graham, Robert Charles-........................Wisconsin.
Garber, Frank D................................Illinois.
Garber, Eugene E...............................Illinois.
Grothaus. Oscar................................Missouri.
Goebel, T. A...................................Ohio.
Galarneau, Charles.............................Ohio.
Gould, Havens W................................Michigan.
Grant, Charles V........................'......Illinois.
Goodfellow, Robert B...........................Kansas.'
Goulding, P. J.................................Massachusetts.
Goble, Green V.................................Kentucky.
Gordon, William................................Indiana.
Gordon, A......................................Indiana.
Gordon, A. A...................................Indiana.
Griffin, Oram el...............................Michigan
Garrity, Joseph................................Illinois.
Garrity, Frank.................................Illinois.
Gallardo, Jose S...............................Mexico.
Glenn, John W..................................Minnesota.
Griffith, James Harold.........................Missouri.
Geiger, Virgil.................................Indiana.
Hagenbarth, Frank J......................
Hamlyn, John J...........................
Hasson, George M.........................
Hasson, John C..............1............
Healy, John..............................
Houston, Harry W.........................
Hoffmann, Martin.........................
Houck, George A..........................
Hampton, Edgar M.........................
Hampton, John M..........................
Hagerty, C A. T..........................
Hayes, John L............................
Horne, Jacob.............................
Hake, Theodore...........................
Hake, Albert.............................
Holman, Samuel N.........................
Harrison, George <.......................
Harris, Charles R........................
Harris, William A........................
Holden, 1 aurence........................
Hausberg, Charles........................
Howard, L eslie..........................
Hoye. Arthur.............................
Hull, Harry D.......................
Hutchinson, Frank.......................
Harless, W. W............................
Haney, O^car.............................
Idaho.
Montana.
Utah.
Utah.
Illinois.
Louisiana.
Illinois.
Oregon.
Kentucky.
Kentucky
Indiana.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Michigan
Tennessee.
New York.
Illinois.
Illinois
Colorado.
Iowa.
Illinois
Louisiana.
Illinois
Ohio.
Illinois.
Illinois
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
77
Holway, Charles John........................Illinois.
Hiner, George W.............................Ohio.
Haynes, Seth H..............................New York.
Hillas, Eddie...............................Iowa.
Hall, Lindsay...............................Wisconsin.
Huiskamp, John B............................Iowa.
Houlihan, Wm................................Indiana.
Inderrieden,	C. V...........................Illinois
Inderrieden,	Robert.........................Illinois.
Inda, A.....................................Michigan.
Ill, B......................................Ohio.
Jackson, John J..
Jacobs. Peter.... .
Jacobs, Nicholas..
Jewett, Fred L ...
Jewett, Harry M..
Jewett, Edward H
Judie, Isaac......
Jess, William .... .
Jones, Shelley....
Jones, Aaron......
Jeffs, Edward....
Jeffs, William . ..
Jacobi, Michael...
Joyce, Andrew...
John, Charles D..

Ohio.
.Wisconsin
Wisconsin.
Illinois.
Illinois.
.Illinois.
Indiana.
Iowa.
Missouri.
Indiana.
.Michigan.
Michigan.
Ohio.
District of Columbia
Indiana.
Kelly, Joseph A. ...
Kreutzer, F. X.....
Kern, William.......
Klaner, Daniel......
Klaner, George.... ,
Keys, Thomas.... .
’ Konzen, Francis P .
Konzen, Wm. Ed...
Karst, August......
Kellner, Fritz......
Kintz, Andrew.......
Kintz, John.........
Kintz, Otto.........
Kabat, Joseph H....
Kenny, Henry........
Kenny, John.........
Keegan, Joseph....
Keefe, Philo........
Kegel, Louis........
Kleiber, John J.....
Koudelka, W. F....
Kendall, Sherman..
Kwilinski, Anthony,
Klejna, T...........
. District of Columbia.
.Indiana.
.Illinois.
.Illinois.
. Illinois.
.Illinois.
Indiana.
Indiana
Ohio
.Kentucky
Indiana.
Indiana.
.Indiana.
Iowa.
.Indiana.
Indiana.
.Kentucky.
.Illinois.
Mexico.
Texas.
Ohio.
.Texas.
Indiana.
Illinois. .
Levin, Percy H..................................Illinois.
Lesh, Henry.....................................Indiana.
7S
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Luther, Minot..............................Indiana.
Landenwich, George.........................Kentucky.
Long, Harrv................................Missouri.
c_> 7
Long, Ferdinand............................Missouri.
Luhn, H. B.................................Nebraska.
Luhn, W. L.................................Nebraska.
Lathshaw, Donald A.........................Missouri.
Loomis, Walter M...........................Illinois.
Lannom, Eldridge...........................Tennessee.
Lally, W. D................................Michigan.
Larkin, Arthur.............................Kansas.
Ley, John..................................Indiana.
Lenz, I....................................On io.
Martin, William.............................Louisiana.
Millard, William............................Michigan.
Mainzer, Felix..............................Minnesota.
Martinez, Louis.............................Mexico.
Moncada, Jose...............................Mexico.
Mueller, Charles............................Illinois.
Morgan, Henry...............................Illinois.
Muessel, Louis..............................Indiana.
Morrison, George D..........................Michigan.
Morrison, Bert..............................Michigan.
Mooney, Christopher.........................Illinois.
Mooney, Herbert.............................Illinois.
Moody” Arthur G.............................Indiana.
Meehan, Augustus............................Kentucky.
Mathers, Laf ay e. te...:...................Illinois.
Myers, George W.............................Iowa.
Mason, Albert...............................Colorado.
Murphy, John F......................:.......Dakota.
Murphy, Frank E.............................Nebraska.
Murdock, Samuel.............................Indiana.
Mier, Abe...................................Indiana.
Maguire, Patrick............................Iowa.
Miller, Andrew.......
Munro, Roderick E..
Moon, Charles B....
Mulkern, Michael B.
Mitchell, Charles....
Mitchell, John.......
Macatee, Leonard...
Meagher, John B. ...
Mulberger, Henry...
Mohun, Louis W....
Maloney, Joseph.....
Morgenweck, August
Morgenweck, Charles
Moran, Michael.......
Moran, Patrick.......
Meyerhoefer, T.......
McKendry, Daniel...
McCourt, Willard...
McCourt, Mark........
McGill, William......
Wisconsin.
New York.
Indiana.
Iowa.
Illinois.
.Illinois.
Texas.
Minnesota.
Wisconsin.
District of Columbia.
.Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Ohio.
.Indiana.
Colorado.
.Colorado.
.Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
McConn, Hugh..............................Iowa.
McErlaine, Frank...........................Indiana.
M'cCartney, Robert.........................Indiana.
M c Veigh, J am e s A......................Ken tucky.
McPhee, William............................Colorado.
McIntosh, John F...........................Nebraska.
McIntosh, James L..........................Nebraska.
McNulty, Anthony...........................Illinois.
McNulty, Joseph............................Illinois.
McNamara, W. P.............................Kentucky.
McDonald, Archibald........................Indiana.
McCart, McGregor...........................Texas.
J	o
(
Neill, C P.................................Texas.
Noud, Thomas James.........................Michigan.
Newton, Leroy..............................Illinois.
Nussbaum, Samuel...........................Indiana.
Nussbaum, Bert.............................Indiana.
Nealis, Nat J...................................Canada.
Nealis, Basil J.................................Canada.
Nealis, Charles	B............................Canada.
Newton, Robert (Jr.)........................Arkansas.
Nester, John................................Michigan.
Nester, Frank P.............................Michigan.
' _________
Nester, Arthur T............................Michigan.
Nadeau, Joseph K............................Kansas.
Nations, Rudolph...........................Mexico.
Nancolas, C. A.............................Iowa.
Noonan, Frank..............................Illinois.
O’Connor, William.........................Pennsylvania.
O’Gorman, Francis.........................Canada.
OConnor, James............................Wisconsin.
O’Connor, Edward........................  Wisconsin.
O’Rourke, Wm. F...........................Ohio.
Oxnard, Richard...........................Pennsylvania.
O’Kane, Mortimer..........................Ohio.
O’Donnell, James V........................Indiana.
;	Ott, Wm. F.................................Ohio.
!	O’Connell, Wm. K...........................Indiana.
O’Neill, James............................New York.
‘	O’Keeffe, R................................Indiana.
'	O’Connell, M...............................Indiana.
’	Prudhomme,	P.	P........................Louisiana.
'	Prudhomme,	J-	L......................  Louisiana.
•	Prudhomme,	E.	C........................Louisiana.
■	Padilla, Vincenti..........................Mexico.
(	Price, Hiram...............................Dakota.
Portillo, Jose............................Mexico.
J	Paschel, Henry.............................Iowa.
j	Paschel, Charles...........................Iowa.
;	Paschel, Philip............................Iowa.
(	Paul, Leon.................................Indiana.
‘	Press, Adam J..............................Illinois.

80	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Piero, James.................................Ohio.
Philips, LeonardC............................Indiana
Philips, Hugh B..............................Kentucky.
Perley, Kirk.................................Arkansas.
Preston, Augustus Louis......................Iowa
Peck, Frank..................................Colorado.
Peck, James..................................Colorado.
Porter, Edward T.............................Wisconsin.
Quinlan, Cecil...............................Illinois.
Regan, Dominick C..........................Texas.
Ramsey, Charles............................Indiana.
Ratighan, Wm. V............................Illinois.
Redlich, Alexander.........................Illinois.
Ruffing, Charles E.........................Indiana.
Ruffing, Albert............................Indiana.
Robinson, Hardie...........................Kentucky.
Remish, James..............................Minnesota.
Rice, Daniel J.............................Iowa.
Riordan, John Leo..........................Michigan.
Riley, Edward J............................Ohio
Rothert, Hugo C............................Indiana.
Rochford, Walter J.........................Illinois.
Rose, Leon.................................Indiana.
Rudd, J. C................................  Kentucky.
Reagan, John M.............................Michigan.
Reilly, Thomas F...........................Missoui i.
Ryan, Oscar E..............................Illinois.
Rodriguez, Felix...........................Mexico
Rahilly, James M...........................Minnesota.
Ramirez, Rafael............................Mexico.
Redmond, William Walter....................Missouri.
Ryan, Thomas C.............................Kansas.
Ryan, Ethan................................Kansas.
R'heimburger, Charles A....................Illinois.
Rowsey, W. Alexander.......................Ohio.
Redmond, William............................Indiana.
Stubbs, Charles J....
Stone, Lee......
Sweet, Paul.....
Sweet, George...
Snapp, R. T.........
Smart, Arthur T.....
Smart, Walter.......
Short, William......
Smith, Stanard C....
Smith, Lindsey......
Sheridan, Thomas J..
Shaide, Christian....
Smith, Frank C......
Smith, Edwin Earle.
Senn, Charles G.....
Shields, Charles....
Texas.
Texas. .
Colorado.
.Colorado.
Indiana.
Georgia.
Georgia.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
.Illinois.
Illinois.
Missouri.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	81
Smith, Fred S...............................Iowa.
Saviers, Delano C...........................Ohio.
Smith, Harry L..............................Minnesota.
Spencer, Charles H..........................Indiana.
Scherrer, Leo...............................Colorado.
Scherrer, Charles...........................Colorado.
Scherrer, Elmer.............................Colorado.
Straus, Ike.................................Indiana.
Servis, Philip..............................Missouri.
Shields, James..............................Michigan.
Sullivan, Algernon James....................Montana.
Sandoval, Enrique...........................Mexico.
Sticknev, Robert............................Illinois.
Soden, Frank................................Missouri.
Stephens, R. S..............................Illinois
Stattman, Walter............................Illinois.
Steele. Charles.............................Ohio.
Steele, Sherman.............................Ohio.
Strasser, Michael...........................Ohio.
Sack, Frank.................................Indiana.
Stutzko, C..................................Indiana.
Triplett, Albert............................Missouri.
Tiernan, William............................Massachusetts.
Tillenburg, Hugo............................Nebraska.
Thompson, Lindley C...................... .Indiana.
Thompson, W. H..............................Indiana.
Thurston, Frans.............................Iowa.
Talbot, John J..............................Indiana.
Tew - sbury, David..........................Utah.
Ti us, Stephen..............................Indiana.
Titus, Fred.................................Indiana.
Towner, Francis.............................Illinois.
Tarrant, George.............................Wisconsin.
Taft, Charles...............................Colorado.
Tidrick, Bertie.............................Indiana.
Vanselow, William...........................New Mexico.
Voorhees, Curtis............................Indiana.
Violette, Myron.............................Indiana.
Vandercar, William..........................Illinois.
Vandercar, Hubert...........................Illinois.
Velasco, Ramon..............................Mexico.
Warner, James H.............................Tennessee.
Walsh, W. D.................................Illinois.
Welch, W. A.................................Iowa.
Williams, W. A..............................Indiana.
Wabraushek, William.........................Michigan.
Wagoner, John C.............................Iowa.
Wagoner, Philip.............................Iowa.
West, Caleb F...............................Utah.
Wormer, Henry...............................Michigan.
Williams, A. S..............................Texas.
82	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Wiley, Samuel B...........................Michigan.
Williamson, Theodore B....................Missouri.
Williamson, Albert F......................Missouri.
White, Mathew M...........................Iowa.
Woodbridge, Leverett......................Michigan.
Wilgus, J. H..............................Minnesota.
Woodman, Lucius H........................  Michigan.
Whitlock, Swepson T.......................Illinois.
Williams, Charles.........................Michigan.
Willson, John D...........................Iowa.
West, Rodney Logan........................Iowa.
Werst, H enry.............................O hio.
Wagner, I.................................Indiana.
Zeitler, Edward A.........................Indiana.
Zubovich, A...............................Indiana.
ASSOCIATED
1885-86.
Rev. JOHN DINNEN, ’76, President.
WM. HOYNES, ’68, ist Vice-President.
FLORIAN DEVOTO, ’74, 2D Vice-President.
Rev. N. J. STOFFEL, C. S. C., ’76, Secretary.
JOSEPH A. LYONS, ’62, Treasurer.
O. T. CHAMBERLAIN, ’69, Orator.
WILLIAM BREEN, ’78, Alternate Orator.
MAURICE F. EGAN, ’82, Poet.
T. E. HOWARD, ’62, Alternate Poet.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, ’76, Historian.
Senior Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Arclicoufraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the
Senior department, has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members. It was established
in 1845.
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Rev T. E. Walsh, C. S.C, Director. T. J. Sheridan, Cor. Secretary.
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, President. ’ S. T. Murdock, Treasurer.
A. A. Browne, Vice President. F. J. Hagenbarth, 1st Censor.
Joseph A. Ancheta, Rec. Secretary. G. W. Harrison, 2d Censor.
LITERARY.
St. Aloysius Pliilodeiuic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851, (originally under
the name of the St. Aloysius Literary and Historical Society,) is
the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate
knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and debating
Society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in
writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, President.
A. A. Browne, 1st Vice-President.
M. O. Burns, 2d Vice-President.
Daniel Byrnes, Treasurer.
M. A. Dolan, Rec. Secretarv.
J. I. Kleiber, Cor. Secretary.
F. H. Dexter, Historian.
I C. P. Neill, 1st Censor.
John Wagoner, 2d Censor.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. John G. Ewing, President.
J. A. Ancheta, Vice-President.
M. A. Dolan, Rec. Secretary.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
85
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultivation
of Oratory, Elocution, and the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Fi< st Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C.S.C, Director.
Prof. [.A. Lyons, President.
D C. Saviers, 1st Vice President.
F. H. Dexter, 2d Vice-President.
S. T. Murdock, Rec Secretary.
P. J. Goulding, Treasurer.
A. A. Browne, Historian.
J. A. Ancheta, Cor. Secretary.
F. J. Hagenbarth, 1st Censor.
Fred Combe, 2d Censor.
M. Dolan, Serg’t-at-Arms.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C.S C, Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
S. T. Murdock, 1st Vice-President.
A. A. Browne, 2d Vice-President.
F. H. Dexter, Treasurer.
M. A. Dolan, Rec. Secretary.
J. I. Kleiber, Cor. Secretary.
F. J. Hagenbarth, Critic.
F. J. Combe, Historian.
Paul Chapin, 1st Censor.
C. Stubbs, 2d Censor.
J. Wagoner, Serg’t-at-Arms.
C. Finlay, Marshal.
Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society.
The Columbian Society was founded March the 25th, 1873, for
the benefit of the Commercial students. Its object is the cultiva-
tion of Elocution and Oratory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T E. Walsh, C. S. C , Director.
Rev. M J. Regan, Ass’t Director
J. A Lyons, A. M. President.
J. F. Edwards, A M., Hon. President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., £ Prnmofprs
Bro. Paul, C.S C.,	Pwmoteis.
M. O. Burns, 1st Vice-President.
A. McNulty, 2d Vice-President.
Joseph Bates, Rec. Secretary.
P. McGuire, Treasurer.
C. Duffin, Cor. Secretary.
Alex. Gordon, Historian.
W. Breen, Librarian.
M. M. White, 1st Censor.
O. M. Ryan, 2d Censor.
W. Jess, Critic.
John J. Hamlyn, Charge-d’Affaires.
Joseph E Cusack, Serg’t-at-Arms.
Wm. Harless, Marshal.
George Harrhon, Prompter.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev M J. Regan, As.s’t Director.
J. A Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, A. M., Hon President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C.S C., /	,
■o -n i e r'	r Promoters.
Bro Paul, C. b C-,	)
A. McNulty, 1st Vice-President
M. M. White, 2d Vice-President.
P. McGuire, Treasurer.
John Hamlyn, Rec. Secretary.
Wm. Harless, Cor. Secretary.
Alex. Gordon, Historian.
W. Jess, Critic.
W. Breen, Librarian.
J. V. ODonnell, 1st Censor.
C. Duffin, 2d Censor.
H.	Paschel, Prompter.
Waltei' Collins, Serg’t-at-Arms.
86
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.

Scientific Association.
This Society was founded in the Spring of 1868 for the prosecu-
tion of Scientific researches. It contains three Departments, de-
voted respectivelv to Natural History, Physics, and Mathematics.
OFFICERS.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. M Kirsch, C. S. C., President.
W. H. Johnston, B. S., Vice President.
H. Rothert, Secretary.
F Hagenbarth, Cor. Secretary.
F. Dexter, Treasurer.
M. A. Dolan, Censor.
Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas.
This Association was organized Nov
, for the purpose
of stimulating students to devote special attention to philosophical
studies. Monthly meetings are held, at which such philosophical
subjects as are most closely connected with the leading questions
of the day are discussed. The disputations are conducted strictly
according to the scholastic method.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev.
E. Sorin, C. S. C., ) TT	,
u’.i i o r Honorary Directoi>.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C..
First Session.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. N. Stoffel, C. S. C., Assistant
Promoter.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
E.	Mathers, President.
T. J. Sheridan, i>t Vice-President.
F.	H. Dexter, 2d Vice-President.
Daniel Byrnes, Treasurer.
M. O. Burns, Rec. Secretary.
J. A. Ancheta, Cor. Secretary.
John Wagoner, ist Censor.
C. A. Hagerty, 2d Censor.
Second Session.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. N. Stoffel, C. S. C., Assistant
Promoter.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
J'. J. Sheridan, President.
F. H. Dexter, ist Vice-President.
John Conlon, 2d Vice-President.
M. A. Dolan, Treasurer.
M. O. Burns, Rec. Secretary.
J. A. Ancheta, Cor. Secretary.
John Wagoner, ist Censor. -
C. A. Hagerty, 2d Censor.
©	I
University Moot-Court
OFFICERS.

Prof. William Hoynes, Judge.
Frank H. Dexter, Clerk.
WT. F. Koudelka, Deputy Clerk.
Daniel Byrnes, Prosecuting’ Attorney
Chas. E. Finlay, Assistant Prosecut-
ing Attorney.
Roger Bvrnes, Sheriff.
I.	Judie, Deputy Sheriff.
Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union.
This Association is affiliated to the State and National Unions.
Since its establishment it has received the warmest encouragement
from the officers and faculty of the institution, whose constant effort
has been to increase the number of its members. During the past
year the members have numbered about one hundred and twenty-
five.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
Junior Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
This Confraternity is composed of the students of the Junior
department. It has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members.
officers. .
Both Sessions.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spiritual Director.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
W. Wabraushek, ist Vice-President.
Joseph S. Courtney, 2d Vice-President.
Geo. W. Myers, Rec. Secretary.
P. VD. Brownson, Cor. Secretary.
Ed. T. Porter, Treasurer.
J.	T. Cleary, Standard-Bearer.
R. Oxnard, Organist.
LITERARY.
St Cecilia Philomathean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at
the same time a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its
exercises include public reading, declamation, essays, debates,
dramatic exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—
the elite of the Junior department. Many of the plays acted upon
the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers
of its members, have been written expressly for them.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C , Perpetual Honorary Director.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh/ C. S- C., Director. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.	J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B. Hon. President. J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.,) Promoters Bro. Alexander, C. S C., [ Promoters
Bro. Marcellinus, C.S.C., |	‘ Bro. Marcellinus, C.S.C.,
88	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
Prof. A. I. Stace, )	...
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, j ] 1 1CS' ■
Joseph Courtney, ist Vice-President.
W. Wabraushek, 2d Vice-President.
J. Thompson Cleary, Rec. Secretary.
E. Porter, Treasurer,
Geo. Myers, Cor. Secretary.
S. Holman, ist Censor.
A. Cooper, 2d Censor.
L. Chute, Historian.
J. Garrity, Monitor.
R. Oxnard, Organist.
E.	S. Ewing, 2d Monitor.
Wm. Arts, Librarian.
C. Cavaroc, Clerk of the Court.
P. V. Brownson, Marshal.
C. West, Prompter.
H. H. Robinson, )	.
F.	Nester, J Charges-d Aflaires.
Bro. Anselm, C. S. C., Director of the
Orpheonic Branch.
Prof. A. J. Stace, ? c iti
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, J ^11UC-
Joseph Courtney, ist Vice-President.
W. Wabraushek, 2d Vice-President.
W. B. Mulkern, Rec. Secretary.
E. Porter, Treasurer.
E. J. Darragh, Cor. Secretary.
P. V. Brownson, Historian.
C. Cavaroc, Clerk of the Court.
J. Thompson Cleary, ist Censor.
Geo. Myers, 2d Censor.
R. C. Newton, ist Monitor.
Edward Dillon, 2d Monitor.
R. Oxnard, Organist.
H. H. Robin-on, Prompter.
G. Cooper, Sergt -at-Arms.
T. B. Goebel, Librarian.
D. C. Regan, Marshal
W 3krtsG? Charges-d Affaires.
St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
This Society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English
Composition and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C„ Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M.. President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
A. Meehan, ist Vice-President.
J. Baur, 2d Vice President.
D. Cartier, Rec. Secretary.
C. Senn, Treasurer.
L. Rose, Cor. Secretary.
A. Hoye, ist Censor.
R. Frain, 2d Censor.
S. Nussbaum, Librarian.
W. McPhee, Sergt.-at-Arms.
A. McVeigh, Marshal.
L. Scherier, ) Qharges-d’Affaires.
F. Garrity,	&
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
J. A. Lyons, A. M., President.
J. F. Edwards, LL. B., Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
A. Meehan, ist Vice-President.
W. McPhee, 2d Vice-President.
P. Frain, Rec. Secretary.
A. Hoye, Treasurer.
S. Nussbaum, Cor. Secretary.
L. Scherrer, ist Censor.
H. Houston, 2d Censor.
A. Redlich, Sergt.-at-Arms.
M. Hoffmann, Marshal.
C. Ruffing, Librarian.
E. Berry, Prompter.
G. Brabrook, J
M. McIntosh, ^Charges-d Affaires.
L. Bacigalupo, J
Minim Department.
RELIGIOUS.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the Christian world to contribute their share
towards the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of
heathenism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggre-
gate is considerable, while thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. Edward Sorin, Sup. Gen. C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., President.
James Connors,' Vice-President.
F. Noonan, Secretary.
A. Nester, Treasurer.
Felix Mainzer, Censor.
Francis Falvey, Librarian.
F. Murphy,
E. Scherrer,
C. Moncada,
Standard-Bearers.
Monitors.
Edward Connors
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded Sept. 29, 1874, by Very Rev. Edw.
Sorin, Superior General C. S. C. It is composed of the pupils
of the Minim department. It has for its object the practice of
devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety
among its members, and to provide the church with the servers
required at Mass, Vespers, and the other Church offices.

Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many special
Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX. of glorious memory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director. Very Rev. E. Sorin, C S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., President.
C. Scherrer, Promoter.
W. Martin, 1st Vice-President.
J. McNulty, 2d Vice-President.
W. Graham, Secretary.
P. Sweet, Cor. Secretary.
E. Scherrer, Treasurer.
C.	Quinlin, Librarian.
Director.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., President.
C. Scherrer, Promoter.
J. McNulty, ist Vice-President.
C. Campau, 2d Vice-President.
N. Nealis, Rec. Secretary.
C. Scherrer, Cor. Secretary.
E. Scherrer, Treasurer.
J. Piero, Librarian.
90
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
M. McCourt, 1st Censor.
C. Mooney, 2d Censor.
F. Crotty, Standard-Bearer.
F. Dunford, Sergeant-at-Arms.
A. Nester, 1st Censor.
T. Falvey, 2d Censor.
A. Williamson, Standard-Bearer.
F. Chute, Sergeant-at-Arms.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by Rev. T. E. Walsh,
C. S. C., on Nov. 25th, 1877, is the study of elocution, and the
cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger,	J
Bishop of Fort Wayne,	|
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Sup.-Gen’l J Hon. Directors,
of the Congregation of the Holy
Cross.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter. Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
G. Landenwich, 1st Vice President.
J. Moncada, 2d Vice-President.
P. Sweet, Secretary.
F. Cobbs, Cor. Secretary.
J. Piero, Treasurer.
F. Peck, Librarian.
F. Dunford, Marshal.
A. Smart, 1st Monitor.
C. McNulty, 2d Monitor.
R. Inderrieden, 1st Censor.
F. Chute, 2d Censor.
C. Ramsey, 3d Censor.
F. Crotty, 4th Censor.
C. Munro, Sergeant-at Arms.
S. Jones, Charge-d’Affaires.
C. Mooney, Standard Bearer.
Prof. J- F. Edwards, President.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
G. Landen wich, 1st Vice-President.
J. Moncada, 2d Vice-President.
A. Smart, Secretary.
J. McIntosh, Cor. Secretary.
F. Peck, Treasurer.
L Riordan, Librarian.
N. Nealis, Marshal.
A. Fontanel, 1st Monitor.
W. Ramsey, 2d Monitor.
F. Kellner, 1st Censor.
A. Sullivan, 2d Censor.
A. Nester, 3d Censor.
F. Crotty, 4th Censor.
S. Ciarcoschi, Sergeant-at-Arms.
F. Garber, Charge-d’Affaires.
W. McGill, Standard-Bearer.
MUSICAL.
Notre Dame University Band.
OFFICERS.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S.C., President.
Bro. Paul, C S.C., Vice-President.
Damis Paul, Musical Director.
J. A. Ancheta, Assistant Director
J. Rahilly, Treasurer.
E. J. Riley, Rec. Secretary
J. D. Wilson, Cor. Secretary.
W. W. Congdon, 1st Censor.
C. Paschel, 2d Censor.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.

ATHLETIC.
The Hoynes Light Guards.
A few years since the State of Indiana supplied the University
with too stand of arms and necessary accoutrements, including
bayonets, scabbards, belts, cartridge-boxes, etc., for the use of
students who might wish to organize military companies. These
arms are breech-loaders (Sharp’s rifles), and from year to year
they are brought into requisition by students who voluntarily form
military organizations, and learn the maneuvers, manual of arms,
and all the ordinary evolutions of the United States Army, as
taught in Upton’s Tactics. During the last scholastic year two of
these organizations existed at Notre Dame, one composed of
Seniors and the other of Juniors. They were tastefully uniformed,
and the high degree of proficiency in the use of arms attained by
them was a subject of general remark and compliment. The
authorities of the University duly encourage such organizations
on account of the salutary physical exercise they afford, the respect
for wholesome discipline they tend to inculcate, and the manly
bearing they serve to promote. The officers during the past year
were as follows:
Company A.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Chaplain.
William Hoynes, Colonel.
Company B.
Fred I. Combe, Captain. 'I
J. E. Cusack, Ist Lieut. I Comnus-
G. W. DeHaven. 2d Lieut ) SIOned
W. Harless, ist Serg’t. 1
C. West, Captain. 1 Commis-
E. Benner, ist Lieut t ,
G. Cartier, 2d Lieut. )
R.	Newton, ist Serg’t?
C. Finlav, 2d Serg-’t.
S.	Williams, 3d Serg’t
G Craig, 4th Serg’t
W Cartier, ist Corp.
C. Duffin, 2d Corp.
J. Rahilly, 3d Corp.
1
Non Commis
sioned.
i
J
R Ni ohun, 2d Serg’t.
J. Fitzgerald, 3d Serg’t.
T Williamson, 4th
Serg’t.
o
D. Regan, ist Corp. |
H Smith, 2d Corp. |
A. Finckh, 3d Corp. J
Non Com-
missioned.
SORIN CADETS.
D.	Sweet, ist Sergeant; W. Ramsey, 2d Sergeant; F. Chute, 3d Sergeant;
J. McNulty, 4th Sergeant.
92	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
University Base-ball Association.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S.C., President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., ) t-,.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C. Directors
Jos. E. Cusack, Secretary.
Walter Collins, Treasurer.
P. J. Goulding, Field Reporter.
Anthonv McNultv, /	, .
Paul Chapin. ’ Captains.
Second Session.
Rev. M. I. Regan, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S.C., ) TV ,
Bro. Paul, C. S. C-, J Directors.
Jos. E. Cusack, Secretary.
M. A. Dolan, Treasurer.
J. A. Ancheta, Field Reporter.
F.	J. Combe, Capt. University Blues.
Paul Chapin, Capt. University Reds.
Geo. DeHaven, / o
John Kleiber, i Scorers’
'William Luhn, ) Captains of Second
Charles Stubbs,	Nines.
£
95 members.
Leino tinier Boat Cmb.
OFFICERS.
Rev. T. Walsh, C S. C , Director.
Rev M. J Regan, C.S C., President.
Prof. M. McCue, Commodore.
Joseph A. Ancheta, Gen. Secretary'.
P. J. Goulding, Treasurer.
A. A. Gordon. /
William Harless, ‘ins'
CREWS.
Minnehaha.
A. A. Gordon, Capt., Stroke.
P. I. Goulding, No. c
L. Shaide, No. 4.
G.	Harrison, No. 3.
C. Nancolas, No 2.
P. Chapin, Bow.
F.	Dexter, Coxswain.
Evangeline.
W Harless, Capt., Stroke.
R. Byrnes, No. 5.
G.	Craig, No. 4.
B. Becker, No. 3.
J. Hamlyn, No 2.
G.	DeHaven, Bow.
A McNulty, Coxswain.

namnMnfiKMMaii
The Seniors’ Campus,
St. Joseph’s Lake
Gcnfewmg Segrees.
The (Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
Major Henry F. Brownson, Detroit, Mich.
Hon. John Gibbons, Chicago, Ill.
Rev. A. A. Lambing, Wilkinsburg, Pa.
The (Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
Rev. J. J. Burke, Monmouth, Ill.
William H. Bailey, Somerville, Mass.
Rev. Luke J. Evers, Newburg, N. Y.
Ambrose J. Hertzog, Natchitoches, La.
The (Degree of Master of Science was conferred on
James Solon, Chicago, Ill.
The (Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Thomas J. Sheridan, Parnell, Iowa.
. Lafayette Mathers, Monica, Ill.
The (Degree of Bachelor of Arts in honor em was
conferred on
George E. Clarke, South Bend, Ind.
q| "  . — 1  .........-  	—	1	-- ------ '  
96	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The (Degree <9/ Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Michael A. Dolan, Charlotte, Iowa.
Patrick J. Goulding, Chelsea, Mass.
Joseph A. Ancheta, Georgetown, New Mexico.
j	Vernon H. Burke, Ashtabula, 0.
.	Delano C. Saviers, Columbus, O.
Albert A. Browne, Brownsville, Texas.
The (Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
Joseph A. Ancheta, Georgetown, New Mexico.
Samuel T. Murdock, Michigan City, Ind.
Charles C. Kolars, Lesueur Centre, Minn.
j	John W. Guthrie, Carroll City, Iowa.
;	William H. Johnston, East Townsend, O.
The (Degree of Bachelor of Law was conferred on
Joseph A. Ancheta, Georgetown, New Mexico.
Vernon H. Burke, Ashtabula, O.
Patrick J. Goulding, Chelsea, Mass.
Daniel Byrnes, Minneapolis, Minn.
Francis X. Claffey, Bertrand, Mich.
Michael O. Burns, ITamilton, O.
John H. Conlon, Ashtabula, 0.
William F. Koudelka, Cleveland, O.
> ----------------——— -----------------------------------------
COMMERCIAL GRADUATES.	97
Commercial Graduates.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
E. F. Dillon, Dubuque, Iowa.
Peter J. Jacobs, Stevens Point, Wis.
William F. Ott, Norwalk, O.
Minot L. Luther, Crown Point, Inch
John F. Murphy, Larimore, Dak.
Philip P. Paschel, Council Blufls, Iowa.
John G. Fitzgerald, Muscatine, Iowa.
William A. Borgschulze, Hawesville, Ky„
Charles E. Ruffing, Bellevue, Ohio.
Walter J. Rochford, Galena, Ill.
Francis J. Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho.
William D. Jess, Dubuque, Iowa.
John J. Talbot, South Bend, Ind.
Mortimer E. O’Kane, Cincinnati, O.
William F. O’Rourke, Brandon, O.
William B. Akin, Carlisle, Ind.
H.	H vrdie Robinson, Frankfort, Ky.
Henry B. Luhn, Fort Niobrara, Neb.
August A. Cooper, Dubuque, Iowa.
Charles R. Harris, Lewiston, Ill.
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to
John F. Murphy, Larimore, Dakota.
Thomas C. Ryan, Leavenworth, Kansas.
Emanuel 0. Colina, Toluca, Mexico.
98	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ffiolh Mcfral for Singltsij’IBssags,
Presented by Mr. John R. English, of Columbus, Ohio, zvas azuarded to
❖ EC. ❖ DEXTERS
Kansas City, Mo.
®ijr Mason ffioUi Mebal,
Presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, III., to the student having the
best record in the Junior Department, zvas awarded to
URETER ❖
Stevens Point, Wis.
Merijan ®rot& M^al,
Presented by Mr. G Meehan, of Covington, Ky., to the student having the
second-best record in the Junior Department, zvas azvarded to
a
A 6H&BEES ❖ E. ❖
Bellevue, Ohio.
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.	99
Class Prize Medals.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class was awarded to
Thomas J. Sheridan, Parnell, Iowa.
Medals in the Junior and Sophomore Classes were not awarded.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to T. A.
Goebel, Marietta, Ohio.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to Hugo C.
Rothert, Huntingburg, Ind.
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore Class was not awarded.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to
Edward S. Ewing, Lancaster, O.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
The Commercial Gold Medal was awarded ex cequo to Edward
Dillon, Dubuque, Iowa, and Philip Paschel, Council Bluffs,
Iowa.
The Gold Medal for Proficiency in Penmanship—presented by
Mr. D. D. Myers, of Dubuque, Iowa—was awarded to Janies J.
Remish, New Prague, Minn.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (presented by
Rt. Rev. Dr. Dwenger, Bishop of Fort Wayne) was awarded to
Michael A. Dolan, of Charlotte, Iowa.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (presented by
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the
Holy Cross) was awarded to Jacob Thompson Cleary, of
Covington, Ky.
IOO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Oechtering Gold Medal (presented by Rev. A. B. Oechter-
ing, of Mishawaka, Ind.) was awarded to Vincent Padilla, of
Lagos, Mexico.
The Grand Gold Medal for Oratory (presented by William- P.
Breen [’77], of Fort Wayne, Ind.) was awarded ex cequo to Daniel
P. Byrnes, of Minneapolis, Minn., and Donald J. Latshaw, of
Kansas City, Mo.
The Gold Medal for Industrial Drawing (presented by George
W. Rhodius, of Indianapolis, Ind.) was awarded to William
Wabraushek, of Manistee, Mich.
The Gregori Gold Medal for Artistic Drawing was awarded to
F. Long, of Kansas City, Mo.
The Gregori Silver Medal for Artistic Drawing was awarded
to John Ley, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Gold Medal for German was awarded to Charles J. Senn,
of Chicago, Ill.
The Lyons Gold Medals for Excellence and Improvement in |
Elocution were awarded to J. A. Ancheta, of Massilia, N. M., I j
and E. Darragh, of St. Paul, Minn.	! |
' The Gold Medal for Elocution (presented by Moses Livingston, !
| South Bend) was awarded to Charles Harris, Lewiston, Ill. !
The Barry Gold Medal for Excellence in Elocution was awarded !
to Frank Hagenbarth, Challis, Idaho.	j
The Prize Medal for Improvement in Elocution (presented by !
J. A. Lyons) was awarded to C. Cavaroc, Chicago, Ill.	I
The Nester Medals for Elementary Science (presented by Hon.
j T. Nester, Marquette, Mich.) were awarded to C. Cavaroc, W. i
P. McPhee, and W. Koudelka.	!
Special Medals in the Minim Department.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal (presented by Very Rev.
Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy
Cross) was awarded to James McIntosh, Sidney, Neb.
The Sorin Association Gold Medal (presented by Rev. President
Walsh) was awarded to Frederick P. Crotty, Rockford, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Politeness (presented by Rev. P. Boland,
of .Lakey, Minn.) was awarded to Frederick Chute, Minne-
apolis, Minn.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Francis
Dunford, Chicago, Ill.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Elocution was awarded
to Christopher H. Mooney, Chicago, Ill.
The Silver Medal for; Improvement in Penmanship was awarded
to Ernest Doss, Kansas City, Mo.
AWARDING OF HONORS.
ioi
awarding of Eaneps.
[The “ First Honor ” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have followed
the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose deportment dur-
ing the whole time has been unexceptionable ]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Thomas J. Sheridan, Parnell, la.
John C. Wagoner, Omaha, Neb.
Hugo C. Rothert, Huntingburg,
Ind.
Vincent Padilla, Lagos, Mexico.
Michael O. Burns, Hamilton, O.
Felix Baca, Trinidad, Col.
Patrick McGuire, Storm Lake,
Iowa.
Frederick J. Combe, Browns-
ville, Tex.
Francis H. Dexter, Kansas City,
Mo.
Michael A. Dolan, Charlotte,
Iowa.
Tiburcio Becerra, Chihuahua,
Mexico.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Philip S. Wagoner, Omaha, Neb.
Augustus Meehan, Covington,
V- ...
Frank Fehr, Louisville, Ky.
William J. Wabraushek, Manis-
tee, Mich.
Mortimer E. O’Kane, Cincin-
nati, Ohio.
William P. McPhee, Denver,
Col.
Edward Iowa.	F.	Dillon,	Dubuque,
Edward Minn.	J-	Darragh,	St. Paul,
Charles Ohio.	E.	Ruffing,	Bellevue,
Charles Ind.	Sp	encer, Indianapolis,	
102
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
ft
First Honors were awarded to
Francis Cobbs, Cadilla, Mich.
Paul J. Sweet, par excellence,
Kansas City, Mo.
Jose Moncada, Jaral, Mexico.
Christopher H. Mooney, Chi-
cago, HL
Albert Nussbaum, Plymouth,
Ind.
Charles A.Scherrer, Denver,Col.
Arthur J. Nester, Marquette,
Mich.
Cecil Quinlan, Chicago, HL
Elmer J. Scherrer, par excel-
lence, Denver, Col.
Leslie S. Doss, Fort Sumner,
New Mexico.
James J. Piero, Canton, Ohio.
William McGill, Chicago Hl.
Thomas P. Falvey, Indianapolis,
Ind.
Francis Peck, Pine Grove, Col.
[The “ Second Honor ” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students who
have followed the courses of the University at least foui- sessions, and whose
deportment has given general satisfaction.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
Matthew M. White, South
Amana, Iowa.
Ethan B. Ryan, Leavenworth,
Kansas.
Henry D. Kenny, Ligonier, Ind.
Joseph E. Cusack, Fort Nio-
brara, 'Neb.
Andrew W. Miller, Burlington,
Wis.
Willis R. Congdon, Bristol, Ind.
George E. Houck, Monroe, Or.
Charles F. Paschel, Council
Bluffs, Iowa.
Henry J. Paschel, Council Bluffs,
Iowa.
Peter P. Prudhomme, Bermuda,
La.
James J. Remish, New Prague,
Minn.
Charles J. Stubbs, Galveston,
Tex.
AWARDING OF HONORS.	103
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
George
Mich.
R. Cartier, Ludington,
Jacob Thompson Cleary, Cov-
ington, Ky.
Richard Oxnard, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Joseph Portillo, Chihuahua, Mex.
Minot Luther, Crown Point, Ind.
H. Hardie Robinson, Frankfort,
Ky.
Edward S. Ewing, Lancaster, O.
George W. Myers, Dubuque, la.
William Welch, Des Moines, la.
Manuel Colina, Toluca, Mex.
Charles Cavaroc, Chicago, Ill.
Ferdinand Long, Kansas City,
Mo.
George Tarrant, Eau Claire,
Wis.
Edward Benner, Chicago, Ill.
Clarence Benner, Chicago, Ill.
Frank Smith, Watertown, Wis.
Irving Bunker, Kansas City,Mo.
Leo Scherrer, Denver, Col.
Jacob Boos, Huntington, Ind.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
Francis P. Murphy, Sydney, Charles A. Campau, Harney,
Neb.	Dak.
Albert J. Williamson, Kansas
City, Mo.
Mark M. McCourt, Denver, Col.
James J. Peck, Pine Grove, Col.
Robert N. Inderrieden, Chicago,
Ill.
John M. Bull, Kansas City, Mo.
Joseph M. McNulty, Chicago,
Ill.
Frederick P. Crotty, Rockford,
III.
Henry A. Morgan, Chicago,
Ill.
George A. Landenwich, Louis-
ville, Ky.
Fritz Kellner, Louisville, Ky.
CERTIFICATES.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses of
the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the whole
time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
W. F. O’Rourke.
W. F. Ott,
P. P. Paschel,
C. W. Bowles,
J. H. Crowe,
J. W. Hampton,
J. J. Jackson,
J. P. Kenny,
104	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.			
E. J. Rilev.	J. J. Dohany,	A. F. Karst,	
AV. f. Rochford,	C. E. Finlay,	J. F. Murphy,	
J. M. Regan,	J. S. Gallardo,	F. M. Rodriguez,	
R. T. Snapp,	J. W. Glenn,	C. Shaide,	
W. W. Aubrey,	C. H. Hagerty. Honorably Mentioned.		
P. E. Burke,	A. Chappelle,	C. Nancolas,	
B. Bryar,	E. Egan,	W. F. Koudelka,	
M. Cassidy,	C. S. Kendall, JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.	H. J. AV erst.	
E. R. Adelsperger,	T. Flood,	F. P. Konzen,	
AV. H. Austin,	H. O. Grothaus,	AV. E. Konzen,	
E. P. Bodley,	T. A. Goebel,	H. J. McConn,	
E. V. Bowles,	C. E. Galarneau,	J. T. McIntosh,	
AV. W. Curtis,	J. L. Hayes,	N. J. Nealis,	
L. P. Chute,	T. J. Hake,	T. J. Noud,	
J-J- Cole,	A. W. Hake,	R. C. Newton,	
J. B. Dickinson,	W. Houlihan,	W. J. O’Connor,	
A. L. Duffield,	H. M. Jewett,	A. L. Preston,	
1 ' Epple.	P. J. Jacobs, N. C. Jacobs,	A. A. Ruffing,	
R. J. Fraine,		S. S. Smith,	
A. Finckh,	W. P. Kern,	C. J. Shields.	
’ AV. D. Walsh,	Honorably Mentioned.		
‘ M. Akin,	E. Hiner,	M. Mui kern,	
E. Campbell,	A. Joyce,	R. Nations,	
S. Campbell,	E. Macatee,	R. Ramirez,	
S. Chaves,	H. Mulberger,	B. Tiedrich,	
H. Dunning,	M. McCart,	R. Velasco,	
L. Fontanel,	C. Mitchell, MINIM DEPARTMENT.	C. Cain.	
C. W. Ramsey,	S. J. Ciarcoschi,	AV. Smart,	
F. J. Chute,	E. H. Jewett,	G. Sweet,	
J. J. McIntosh,	R. E. Munro,	H. Tillenburg,	
A. T. Smart,	A. J. Sullivan,	F. L. Mainzer,	
L. J. Riordan,	W. H. Bailey, M. B. Dewald,	E. E. Garber,	
B. J. Nealis,		C. B. Nealis,	
R. M. Graham,	S. E. Jones,	P. J. Keeffe,	
E. E Farmer,	F. M. Falvey,	C. V. Grant, O. J. Griffin.	
W. O. Martin,	J. D. Connors,		
F. D. Garber, 1		E. B. Connors,		
f
Premiums.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
. Ancheta, A.—ist Premium in Logic; Premium in Descriptive Geometry;
Premium in ist Physics: ist Premium in Mechanic1'.
Aubrey W.—3d Premium in 4th Algebra; 3d Premium in ist Grammar;
Mention in 2d Book-Keeping.
Akin, W.—Mention in United States History; ist Mention in ist Book-
; Keeping; 3d Mention in, ist Arithmetic; Mention in Penmanship.
' Ashford, J.—ist Premium in isc Arithmetic; Mention in 2d Grammar.
’	Archambault, J.—Mention in 2d Orthography.
j Becker, B.—-Premium in Moral Philosophy; Premium in ist Latin.
1 Burke, V.—2d Premium in Logic; 2d Premium in Mechanics.
' Baca, F.—3d Premium in ist Geometry; ist Premium in 3d German.
• Burke, P.—Premium in 6th Greek; Mention in 4th Latin.
1	Burns, M.—Mention in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in ist Christian Doctrine,
j Bryar, B.—ist Mention in 4th Latin; Mention in 2d Ge man; ist Premium in
•	2d Christian Doctrine.
| Bowles, C.—Mention in ist Geography; ist Mention in ist Grammar; 4th
i	Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
<	Conlon, J.—ist Mention in Logic.
i Crowe, C.—ist Mention in 2d Chemistry; Mention in 3d Greek; 2d Premium
! in 3d Latin; 4th Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.
Combe, F.—2d Mention in 2d Physics; 3d Premium in Botany; ist Premium
in Elocution.
Cartier, W.—Mention in Geology; 2d Premium in Instrumental Music; 2d
Mention in ist Christian Doctrine
Carbajal, P.—ist Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in Instrumental
Music.
। Craig, G.—ist Premium in Ancient History; Mention in Modern History; 2d
Premium in 2d Geometry; 3d Premium in Rhetoric; ist Mention in 3d
Latin.
i	Collins, Walter.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; Premium in Penmanship.
Chapin, P.—ist Mention in 3d Algebra; Mention in Phonography; Mention in
! Elementary Chemistry.
Crowe, J.—Mention in 3d Algebra; ist Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Chappelle, A.—ist Premium in ist Reading.
Congdon, W.—Mention in 5th Latin; 2d Premium in 3d French; Premium
in Type-Writing.
Cassidy, J.—3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
Cooney, W.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
. Cusack, Jos.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Mention in Elementary
; Chemistry.
■ Dexter, F.—2d Premium in 2d Chemistry: 2d Premium in 2d Physics.
' Daley, L.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; Mention in Elocution.
Dohany, J.—Mention in Penmanship.
, De Haven, G.—2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Emmons, J.—Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Telegraphy.
!	Egan, E.—ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
1	Finlay, C.—ist Mention in 8th Latin; ist Premium in Elocution.
'	Forbes, F.—2d Premium in 2d Grammar.
:	Glenn, W —Mention in 5th Latin
------------------------------------------------------(
106	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Gordon, A.—3d Premium in Elocution.
Hagenbarth, F.—2d Mention in 2d Chemistry; 1st Premium in Elocution
Hagerty, C. A.—1st Premium in Physiology; 4th Premium in 1st Christian
Doctrine; 2d Premium in Mechanical Drawing.
Hull, H.—Mention in Botany; ist Mention in Geology; Mention in 3d
Algebra; 1st Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Harris, C. R- 2d Premium in Ancient History; 1st Premium in Modern
History; ist Premium in English History; 1st Premium in Phonography.
Harrison, G.—Mention in Ancient History; 1 st Mention in 2d Geometry; 2d
Premium in Rhetoric; 2d Mention in Modern History; 1 st Mention in ist
Christian Doctrine.
Hamlyn, J.—ist Premium in Surveying; Mention in 2d German; Premium
in Phonography; 4th Mention in ist Christian Doctrine.
Houck, G.-—3d Mention in 2d Algebra; 1st Mention in ist Geometry; 3d
Mention in Rhetoric.
Harless, W.—ist Mention in Surveying; Mention in Elocution.
Hampton, J.—1st Premium in ist Geography ; ist Pi emium in 2d Grammar;
2d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in
2d Arithmetic.
Holden, S—Mention in 2d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Orthography.
Jess, W.— ist Mention in American ■ iterature; 5th Premium in ist Book-
Keeping.
Jackson, J.—3d Mention in 2d B ok-Keeping.
Kevs, T.—ist Mention in English omposition; Mention in ist Arithmetic.
Kendall, S.—ist Premium in Sth atin; Mention in ist Grammar; ist Pre-
mium in ist Orthography; ist Men’ion in i-t Reading.
Karst, G.—Mention in ist Grammar: Mention in ist Book-Keeping.
Kwilinski A.—ist Mention in 2d Arithmetic
Kleiber, Jno.—ist Premium in Elocution; 2d Mention in 3d Latin.
Koudelka, M.—2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry; 2d Premium in Ele-
mentary Physics.
Datshaw, D.—ist Men'ion in Botany; 2d Mention in Trigonometry; 2d Pre-
mium in American Literature.
Long, H.—Mention in 2d Geome'ry; 2d Premium in Elocution; Mention
in Phonography; 2d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Larkin, A.—2d Premium in Sth Latin; 2d Mention in ist Geometry; 3d
Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Luhn, H. B—ist Premium in English Composition; 4th Mention in 2d
Christian Doctrine.
Luhn, W.—3d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in Reading; ist
Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Lally, W.—2d Premium in ist Orthography.
Ley, J.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.
McGuire, P.—Mention in Zoology; ist Mention in 5th Latin; 2d Premium
in 2d German; 2d Premium in Elocut'on; 3d Premium in ist Christian
Doctrine.
Murphy, J.—ist Mention in English Composition; 4th Premium in ist Book-
Keeping.
Morrison, B.—ist Mention in ist Orthography.
McErlain, G.—Mention in ist Arithmetic
Moody, A.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping;
2d Mention in English Literature.
Moon, C.—2d Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Mention in English Literature.
Mier, A.—2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium' in 4th German.
Meagher, J.—3d Premium in English Literature.
Miller, A.—2d Premium in Elocution.
PREMIUMS.	107
Nancolas, C.—Mention in xst Reading; xst Mention in 2d Book-Keeping;
Mention in Phonography.
Ott,-W.—1st Mention in xst Geography; 3d Premium in xst Grammar; xst
Mention in xst Orthography; 3d Mention in xst Book-Keeping; 2d Premium
in xst Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
O’Rourke, W.—xst Premium in xst Orthography; 3d Mention in xst Arith-
metic.
O’Donnell, J. V.—Premium in xst Phonography.
Paschel, H.—Mention in xst Geometry; xst Premium in Elocution; Men-
tion in Phonography.
Paschel, C—Mention in xst Geometry; Mention in xst Algebra; 1st Premium
in Elocution; 2d Premium in xst Phonography.
Paschel, P.—xst Premium in 4th Algebra; xst Premium in English Composi-
tion; 2d Premium in xst Geography; 3d Premium in xst Book-Keeping;
2d Premium in xst Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Padilla, V.—xst Premium in English Composition; 2d Premium in xst
Geography; xst Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 2d Premium in Elocution.
Prudhomme, P. P.—Mention in Penmanship.
Rheinberger, C.—2d Mention in 2d German; 3d Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine.
Rothert, H.—Premium in Geology; Premium in Calculus; Mention in Phon-
ography.
Rodriguez, F.—Mention in 3d French; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; Men
tion in Penmanship.
Rochford, W.—2d Premium in xst Grammar; 3d Mention in xst Book-Keep;
ing; 3d Mention in xst Arithmetic.
Riley, E.—Premium in Penmanship; Premium in Instrumental Music.
Remish, J. J.—3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; Mention in Phon-
ography; Premium in Instrumental Music.
Saviers, D —2d Premium in xst Physics.
Sheridan, T.— xst Mention in Geology; xst Premium in xst Greek; Mention
in Moral Philosophy.
Stubbs, C.—Mention in Zoology; xst Premium in 5th Greek; xst Premium
in Elocution; 3d Mention in xst Christian Doctrine.
Shaide, C.—Mention in 2d Orthography.
Strauss, I.—xst Mention in 2d Book-Keeking.
Snapp, R.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Soden, F.—2d Premium in Elocution.
Sack, F.—2d Mention in 4th German; xst Premium in Instrumental Music.
Vandercar, H. B.—xst Premium in xst Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Book-
Keeping; 5th Premium in xst Arithmetic.
Voorhees, C.—Mention in xst Grammar.
White, M.—xst Mention in Trigonometry; Mention in Elocution.
Wilson, J.—xst Premium in 2d Geometry; xst Mention in xst Algebra; xst
Premium in Music; Mention in Elementary Chemistry.
Werst H.—Mention in English Composition.
Williams, A. S.—2d Premium in Instrumental Music.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Adelsperger, E.—xst Mention in 2d Algebra; xst Premium in xst Reading;
1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in Elocution; 4th Premium
in Christian Doctrine.
Adams, A.—2d Memion in xst Orthography; Mention in xst Arithmetic; 2d
Premium in Phonography.
ioS	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DOE.
I	Austin, W.—Premium in Telegraphy; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 1st
। Premium in Elementary Natural Science; 2d Premium in Elementary
Chemistry.	"	' "
I Aiken, W.—Mention in Music; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
| Arts, W.—3d Mention in Instrumental Music; 4th Mention in Elementary
1 > Science; 3d Mention in Penmanship.
|	Brownson, P.—1st Premium in Ancient History; 1st Mention in Modern
| History; 2d Premium in English Hi-tory; 1st Premium in American Lit-
j erature; 1st Mention in 3d Greek; 1st Premium in 3d Latin; 1st Premium
| in 1 st French.	‘
J Boos, J—2d Premium in 2d United Slates History; 2d Premium in 2d
Geography; 2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Benson, G—2d Mention in 2d Geography; 1st Premium in 4th Grammar;
1st Mention in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Reading.
Bacigalupo, L.—1st Mention in 1st Orthography; 2d Premium in 1st Reading;
2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in Grammar; 2d Premium in
Penmanship.
Bunker, I.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar;
2d Premium in Phonography.
Bodley, E.—3d Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Berry, E.—2d Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in Penmanship; Mention
, in Elementary Chemistry; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine.
I Bowles, E.—2d Premium m 3d German; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Borgschulze, W.—2d Premium in Eelemntary Natural Science; Mention in
Penmanship.	"
Cooper, A.—2d Mention in 2d Algebra; 1st Mention in 2d Geometry; 4th
Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Cavaroc, C.—2d Mention in Botany; 2d Mention in American Literature;
,	1st Premium in French; 1st Premium in Elocution; Premium in Penman-
|	ship; 2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry; 3d Premium in Christian
; Doctrine.	"
», Cleary, J.—1st Premium in English Literature; 1st Mention in 5th Greek;
2d Mention in 4th Latin; 2d Premium in 1st German.
Courtney, J.—1st Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Mention in 4th Latin.
1 Coad, F.—2d Mention in 2d United States History; 3d Premium in 2d Pen-
; manship; 3d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Campbell, E.—1st Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st United
I States History; 2d Mention in 1st Reading; 3d Premium in Arithmetic;
1st Mention in 2d Grammar.
■ Coles, J.—1st Mention in 3d Geography; 2d Mention in 3d Reading.
i Clarke, J.—1st Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st Mention in 1st Reading;
. 1st Premium in Penmanship.
Cleveland, A—1st Mention in 1st Orthography; 1st Mention in Reading;
‘ 1st Premium in 2d Penmanship.	"
Cartier, D.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; 5th Premium in 1st Arith-
metic; Mention in Phonography'.
•	Colina, M.—rst Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Orthography;
' 2d Premium in Penmanship; Premium in Spanish.
Corbett. L. D.—2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1 st Mention in 1st Read-
. ing; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
, Chute, L.—Mention in Phonography; Premium in Instrumental Music.
Darragh, E.—3d Mention in Modern History; 3d Mention in Rhetoric; 2d
t Mention in German; 2d Mention in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in
, 3d Phonography.
, Dillon, E.—2d Premium in English Composition; 1st Premium in 3d Ger-
man; 3d Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic;
2d Premium in Penmanship.
PREMIUMS.	109
Dunning, L.— ist Premium in 4th German; 2d Premium in 1st United States
History; 2d Mention in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Doss, J.—1st Mention in 2d United States History; 2d Premium in 2d Read-
ing
Duffield, A.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Grammar;
Mention in Penmanship.
Decker, E.—3d Mention in 3d Arithmetic; Mention in 4th Christian Doc-
trine ; 4th Mention in 2d Geography.
Dungan, P.—3d Premium in 3d Orthography; 1st Mention in 3d Reading.
Dougherty, J.—Mention in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Ewing, E.—2d Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Zoology; 1st Premium in
Trigonometry; 1st Premium in 1st Algebra; 2d Mention in American Lit
erature; 2d Premium in 4th Latin; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Epple, C.—4th Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 1st Mention in 1st Grammar;
2d Mention in 1st Orthography; 2d Mention in 1st Reading; 4th Mention
in 2d Penmanship.
Edgeworth, R.—3d Premium in 1st Orthography; i<t Mention in 1st Read-
ing; 2d Mention in 4th Christian Doctrine
Fisher, J.—2d Premium in 2d Algebra; 3d Mention in Ancient History;
1st Premium in English Composition; rst Mention in 6th Greek; 2d Pre-
mium in Elocution.
Fitzgerald, J.—1st Premium in 2d Algebra; 4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping;
1st Mention in Elocution.	>
Finckh, A.—2d Premium in 5th Greek; ist Mention in 4th La'in.
Fontanel, L.—ist Premium in 2d French.
Flood, T.—4th Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Premium in Phonography;
3d Premium in 4th < hristian Doctrine.
Frain, R.—4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping; 5th Mention in ist Arithmetic;
ist Premium in ist Grammar.
Fehr, F.—ist Premium in Industrial Drawing.
Fitzharris, A.—2d Mention in Industrial Drawing; Premium in Spanish.
Goebel, F.—3d Premium in Modern History; ist Premium in ist Geometry;
ist Premium in 3d Greek; 3d Premium in 4th Latin; ist Premium in 2d
German.
Grothaus, O.—ist Mention in 2d Geography.
Garrity, J.—4th Mention in ist Arithmetic; ist Premium in Elocution; Men-
tion in Phonography.
Galarneau, C.—3d Mention in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in ist Orthography;
3d Premium in ist Reading.
Gordon, W.—ist Mention in 3d Grammar; Mention inType-Writing.
Houston; H.—Mention in 2d French; 3d Mention in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Hake, F.—ist Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; ist Premium in 2d Gram-
mar; 3d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Reading.
Hake, A.—ist Mention in 3d German; 3d Premium in ist Geography; ist
Premium in 3d Grammar; ist Premium in 2d Orthography; yst Mention in
2d Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Hayes, J.—3d Premium in ist Geography; ist Premium in ist Orthography;
2d Mention in ist Reading; 3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Premium
in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Hiner, E.—ist Mention in 2d Book-Keeping; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic;
2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Mention in ist Reading.
Hoffman, M.—3d Premium'm ist Reading: ist Mention in 2d Christian Doc-
trine.
Hoye, A.—Mention in Phonography.
Houlihan, W.—ist Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Inderrieden, C.—2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
IIO	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Jacobs, N —3d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Jacobs, P.—1st Mention in 1st German; 1st Premium in 1st Geography; 1st
Premium in ist United States History; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 1st
Premium in 1st Reading; 1st Premium in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st Premium
in 1 st Arithmetic; Premium in Penmanship; 3d Premium in Christian
Doctrine.
Jewett, H.—1st Mention in 3d German; 2d Mention in 2d Arithmetic; 2d
Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in Elementary Natural Science; 2d
Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
Joyce, A.—-4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 3d Grammar; 1st
Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Jeffs, E —3d Mention in 3d Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Penmanship; 2d Pre-
mium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Konzen, W.—2d Mention in 3d German; 3d Mention in 1st Geography; 2d
Mention in 1st United States History; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d
Premium in 1st Reading; 6th Mention in 1st Arithmetic.
Kern, W.—1st Premium in 3d Geography.
Konzen, F.—3d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping.
Long, F.—1st Premium in Botany; 2d Premium in Zoology; 3d Premium in
3d Algebra; 4th Mention in Christian Doctrine.
Luther, M.—Mention in 3d Algebra; 2d Mention in 1st Book-Keeping; 1st
Mention in 1st Arithmetic; Mention in Elocution; Mention in Music.
Levin, P. -ist Premium in Elocution
Mulkern, M.—ist Premium in Zoology; 2d Premium in Trigonometry; 2d
Mention in English History; 2d Premium in Elocution.
Myers, G.—2d Premium in Modern History; ist Premium in 3d Algebra; ist
Mention in German; ist Premium in Phonography.
McPhee, W.—-4th Premium in 3d Algebra; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist
Mention in ist Grammar; 2d Mention in Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium
in Elocution; 2d Premium in Penmanship; ist Premium in Elementary
Chemistry.
Mitchell, C.—4th Mention in 2d Orthography.
McConn, H.—2d Premium in 3d Algebra; Premium in ist Phonography.
McVeigh, A.—2d Mention in 4th Algebra; 2d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in Elocution; Premium in 4th
Christian Doctrine.
Meehan, G-—Mention in Sth Latin; 2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d
Mention in ist Reading; Mention in Phonography; 2d Premium in Public
Course of Christian Doctrine.
McIntosh, J.—i<t Premium in 2d United States History; 3d Mention in 2d
Geography; 3d Mention in ist Reading; 2d Mention in 3d Grammar; ist
Mention in 4th Christian Doctrine.
McCourt, W.—-3d Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography;
ist Mention in 2d Reading; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Macatee, L.—4th Mention in 3d Arithmetic; ist Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d
Mention in 2d Reading; qth Mention in 2d Orthography; 2d Premium in
4th Christian Doctrine.
Mulberger, W.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 2d Mention 2d Grammar; 2d
Premium in ist Orthography; 3d Premium ist Reading.
McCart, M.—3d Mention in ist Orthography; ist Mention in ist Reading;
3d Premium in 3d Arithmetic.
Muessal, G.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Orthography.
Mohun, L.—ist Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.
Newton, R.—2d Mention in ist Algebra; 2d Mention in Rhetoric; ist Men-
tion in 5th Latin; ist Premium in German; ist Premium in Elocution.
Nations, R.—Premium in 2d French; ist Premium in 3d Arithmetic; ist
PREMIUMS.	in
i;	Premium in 3d Orthography; 2d Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium
'	in Penmanship; 1st Premium in Spanish.
' Nussbaum, S.—ist Mention in 1st United States History; Premium in
Instrumental Music.	'
| Noud, F. J.—2d Mention in 4th Grammar; 3d Mention in 2d Reading; 3d j
* Premium in 2d Orthography.
!	Nealis, J.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Mention in 4th Christian Doc-
trine.	;
‘ Nester, F.—2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; Mention in 1st Grammar.
* Oxnard, R.—2d Premium in Botany; ist Mention in English Composition;
2d Premium in Elementary Chemistry.
O’Kane, M—3d Mention in 1st German; 1 st Mention in ist Geography; 2d
Premium in ist United States History; 4th Mention in ist Arithmetic;
, Mention in Instrumental Music.
O’Connor, W.—ist Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Gram- j
mar; 2d Mention in 2d Penmanship; Mention in Elementary Chemistry. ;
Porter, E.—ist Premium in 3d French.
.	Preston, L.—5th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Mention in ist Arith-
. metic; 2d Piemium in ist Grammar; ist Premium in Instrumental Music. 1
Press, A.—2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Mention in 2d Reading.	t
Prudhomme, E.—Mention in Music; Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.	,
Robinson, 1~I.—ist Mention in ist Geography; 3d Mention in ist United ;
State,s History; 3d Premium in Industrial Drawing.
' Ruffing, C.—2d Premium in ist Book-Keeping; ist Premium in ist Arith
metic; ist Premium in Instrumental Music.	'
, Ramirez, R.—2d Mention in 3d Arithmetic.	;
Regan, D.—ist Premium in Elocution; 2d Premium in Penmanship.	‘
Redlich, A.—2d Premium in Penmanship.	,
Ruffing, A.—3d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Premium in ist Reading. ,
Scherrer, E.—2d Premium in 4th Algebra; 4th Mention in ist Arithmetic;	1
ist Premium in ist Grammar; Mention in Music; ist Mention in Element- ।
ary Chemistry; 2d Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 2d Premium in ,
Elocution.	1
Smith, F.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Reading; 2d !
' Mention in ist Grammar; Premium in ist Christian Doctrine.	|
, Smith, S.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 3d Mention in ist Book-Keeping; I
2d Mention in ist Grammar; 3d Premium in ist Arithmetic; ist Mention i
in Industrial Drawing.	;
. Smith, L.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 2d Mention 2d Arithmetic; 1
, Mention in Phonography.	j
Shields, C.—2d Mention in ist Orthography; 2d Premium in ist Reading;
ist Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine.	:
Smith, II.—5th Premium in 2d Book-Keeping; ist Mention in ist Orthogra- j
phy; Mention in Phonography.	[
Smith, N.—2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 3d Orthography. !
Stattman, W.—ist Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Mention in 2d Grammar; ’
3d Mention in ist Orthography.	I
Senn, C.—3d Mention in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 3d f
Mention in Christian Doctrine. .	;
Spencer, C.—ist Premium in 7th Latin; 4th Premium in Christian Doctrine.
Towner, F.—ist Mention in 4th German; ist Mention in ist Reading.	>
I Tewksberry, D.—4th Mention in ist Book-Keeping'; Mention in ist Arith-
| metic; 2d Premium in ist Grammar; 2d Premium in Elocution; Premium
; in ist Christian Doctrine.	j
Tiedrich, B.—3d Mention in 3d Orthography; Premium in Instrumental i
Music	'
112
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Tarrant, G.—2d Premium in Elocution; Premium in Penmanship.
Vanselow, W.—ist Premium in Telegraphy.
Valasco, R.—ist Mention in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Premium in Penmanship.
West, C.—ist Mention in Rhetoric; 2d Mention in 5th Greek; ist Premium
in 2d French; ist Mention in 2d German; 3d Premium in Christian Doc-
trine.
Williamson, T.~2d Mention in ist Geography; ist Mention in ist Orthogra-
phy; ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Mention ist Arithmetic.
West, L.—2d Mention in 3d Geography; ist Mention in 3d Orthography; ist
Premium in 3d Reading.
Welch, W.—ist Premium in Type-Writing; 2d Premium in 2d Book-Keeping;
2d Premium in ist Arithmetic; 3d Premium in ist Grammar; Premium
in ist Christian Doctrine.
Wabraushek, W.—Mention in Phonography.
Walsh, W.—Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine; Mention in ist Orthography;
Mention in 2d Arithmetic.
Warner, J. IE —Premium in Penmanship; Mention in Christian Doctrine.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Atkinson, W. A.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d
Orthography.
Ackerman, W. H.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; qth Premium in 5th
Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Bailey, W. H —2d Premium in ist Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in ist Reading; Premium in Elocution.
Barger, E. L.—3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 4th Arith-
metic; 2d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography.
Boland, H.—5th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 4th Premium in ist Orthogra-
phy; ist Mention in ist Reading.
Boland, J.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d !
Mention in ist Penmanship.
Bull, J. M.—ist Premium in ist Orthography; 6th Premium in ist Geogra-
phy; 6th Premium in 2d Reading.
Campeau, C. A.—ist Premium in ist Christian Doctrine; 3d Premium in ist
Geography; 4th Premium in ist Arithmetic; 5th Premium in ist Orthogra- ,
PhJ.
Chute, F. J.—4th Premium in ist Penmanship; ist Premium in 2d Arith- ,
metic; 3d Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Ciarcoschi, S. J.—4th Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 2d ।
Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; 5th Premium in Pen- !
manship.	I
Cobbs, F.—2d Premium in~i st Arithmetic; ist Premium in ist Grammar; 4th !
Premium in 4th Geography; 3d Premium in ist Orthography; ist Pre- :
mium in German.	!
Connors, J. D.—ist Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; :
3d Premium in 3d Orthography; ist Premium in 3d Christian Doertine. !
Connors, E. B.—ist Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Geogra- 1
phy; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 5th Premium in 3d Orthography.	;
Crotty, F. P.—ist Premium in ist Reading; ist Premium in ist Orthogra-	=
phy; 3d Premium in ist Penmanship; 4th Premium in ist Geography;	|
Premium in Elocution.	I
Dewald, M. B.—4th Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 4th j
Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography; ist Mention in 2d Penman- 1
ship.	;
— .----- . - — — - - - - -- - — -- -- — -
PREMIUMS.	113
Doss, E. J.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar- 3d Premium in 3d Geography; 1st
Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; Prize for
Piano.
Doss, L. S.—2d Premium in 3d Orthography; 3d Premium in 4th Reading;
3d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Dunford, F. M.—1st Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 1st Read-
ing; 3d Premium in 1st Geography; 2d Premium in 1st Orthography;
Premium in Penmanship.
Dunford, G. A.—1st Premium in 4th Geography; 2d Premium in 3d Read-
ing.
Dungan, Jesse—5th Premium in 5th Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Orthogra-
phy-
Dungan, Jamie—5th Premium in 7th Reading.
Falvey, T. M.—6th Premium in 3d Reading; 4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic;
6th Premium in 3d Orthography; 5th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Falvey, F.—1st Premium in 3d Reading; 2d Premium in 3d Penmanship;
4th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 1st Piemium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Falvey, E. B.—4th Premium in 4th Reading; 3d Premium in 4th Orthogra-
phy; 5th Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Farmer, E. E.—xst Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Fontanel, A.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 1st Penman-
ship; Premium in French.
Garber, F. D.—4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Geog-
raphy; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar ;4th Premium in 1st Arithmetic.
Garber, E. E.—6th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th Penman-
ship; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic.
Grant, C. V.—2d Premium in 6th Reading; 3d Premium in 6th Orthography.
Graham, R. M.—4th Premium -in 2d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 2d Chris-
tian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar.
Griffin, O. J.—4th Premium in 4th Reading; 6th Premium in 4th Orthogra-
phy; 4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 1st Mention in 3d Penman-
ship.
Healy, J. J.—3d Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthography;
3d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 1st Mention in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Haney, O. W.—2d Premium in 5th Reading; 4th Premium in 5th Orthography.
Hillas, R. E.—4th Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 6th Premium in 2d Geogra-
phy ; 2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine.
Inderrieden, R. M.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium
in 2d Orthography; 6th Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Jewett, E. H.—2d Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Premium in 2d Penman-
ship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 1st Mention in 2d Grammar.
Jones, S. E.—3d Premium in 2d Geography; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st
Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Keeffe, P. J.—4th Premium in 5th Reading; 5th Premium in 5th Orthogra-
phy; 2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Kellner, F. F.—6th Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in 3d Geog-
raphy; 2d Premium for Piano; Premium in German.
Klaner, G. G.—5th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th
Orthography; 2d Premium in 6th Arithemtic; 2d Premium in 4th Read-
ing.
Landenwich, G. E.—4th Premium in 1st Orthography; 6th Premium in 1st
Reading; 3d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic;
6th Premium in 1st Geography.
Mainzer, F. L.—4th Premium in 4th Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 3d
Penmanship; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 4th Reading
ix4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Moncada, J.—2d Premium in 1st Penmanship; 6th Premium in xst Grammar;
2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in xst Orthography; 2d Men-
tion in 1 st Geography.
McIntosh, J. J.—2d Premium in 1st Reading; 2d Premium in 1st Geography;
2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in xst Penmanship; Pre-
mium in Elocution.
McNulty, J.—3d Premium in 1st Grammar; 4th Premium in 1st Geography;
2d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 3d
Premium in 1st Reading-.
McCourt, M. M.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Pen-
manship; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 1st Mention in 2d Reading.
McGill, W.—3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 2d Penmanship;
6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Mason, A. J.—4th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 6th Premium in 4th Reading;
4th Premium in 4th Orthography.
Morgan, H. A.—1st Premium in 2d" Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arith-
metic; 2d Premium in 2d Penmanship.
Mooney, C. H.—1st Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium in 2d Geogra-
phy; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography;
Premium in Elocution.
Mooney, H. B.—1st Premium in 4th Reading; 1st Premium in 4th Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 1st Premium in 4th Christian
Doctrine.	•
Munro, R. E.—xst Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Orthogra-
phy ; 2d Premium in 2d Grammar; 3d Premium in 2d Reading.
Murphy, F. E.—6th Premium in 1st Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Geog-
raphy; 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in xst Penman-
ship; 3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine.
Moran, M. T.—6th Premium in 5th Reading; 7th Premium in 5th Orthogra-
phy-
Moran, P. E.—5th Premium in 7th Reading.
Morgenweck, A. C.—6th Premium in 4th Reading; 4th Premium in 4th
Orthography.
Morgenweck, A. H.—6th Premium in 3d Penmanship; 5th Premium in 4th
Orthography.
Maloney, J. J.—4th Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 6th Orthog-
raphy.
Martin, W. 0.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Christian
Doctrine; 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 2d Grammar.
Nealis, B. J. — 2d Premium in 1st Grammar; 1st Premium in 2d Orthog-
raphy; 4th Premium in 2d Reading; Premium in French; 5th Premium in
1st Arithmetic.
Nealis, C. B.—xst Premium in 5th Reading; xst Premium in 5th Orthog-
raphy; 2d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Nester, A. J.—2d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 3d
Geography; 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; xst Premium in 2d Reading; 3d
Premium fox- Piano.
Nussbaum, A. E. — 2d Premium in 2d Orthography; xst Premium in 3d
Geography; 3th Premium in 2d Grammar; 6th Premium in 3d Arithmetic;
4th Premium in 2d Reading.
Noonan, F.—5th Premium in 6th Reading; 5th Premium in 4th Penman-
ship.
Paul, L.— xst Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine; xst Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Peck, F.—4th Premium inist Grammar; 4th Premium in 2d Geography; 5th Pre-
mium in 2d Orthography; 4th Premium in xst Arithmetic; Premium for Piano.
PREMIUMS.	115
Peck, J. S.—1st Premium in 2d Penmanship; 2d Premium in 2d Arithmetic;
3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 5th Premium in 2d Reading; 4th Premium
in 2d Geography.
Piero, J.—3d Premium in 1st Geography; 4th Premium in 1st Orthography;
3d Premium in 1st Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 1st Reading.
Quinlin, C. S. — 2d Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 4th Premium in 3d Read-
ing; 1st Premium in 3d Christian Doctrine.
Ramsey, C. M.—3d Premium in 2d Reading; 1st Premium in 2d Geogra-
phy; 4th Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 4th
Premium in 1st Grammar.
Rowsey, W. A.—6th Premium in 2d Grammar; 1st Premium in 4th Arith-
metic; 6th Premium in 2d Orthography.
Riordan, J. L.—4th Premium in 1st Penmanship; 4th Premium in 1st Geog-
raphy; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic; 2d
Premium in xst Christian Doctrine.
Stone, L. R.—5th Premium in 4th Reading; 2d Premium in 4th Orthog-
raphy; 1st Premium in 4th Penmanship.
Steele, S. W.—3d Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthog-
raphy ; 3d Premium in 6th Arithmetic.
Sullivan, A. J. — 3d Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 4th Arith-
metic; 1st Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 4th Premium in 2d Reading;
3d Premium in 2d Orthography.
Scherrer, C. W.—1st Premium in 2d Grammar; 2d Premium in 2d Read-
ing; 3d Premium in 2d Christian Doctrine; 1st Premium in 3d Orthogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Scherrer, E. A.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 1st Premium in 3d Orthogra-
phy; 1st Premium for Piano; xst Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Smart, A. T.—3d Premium in xst Penmanship; 3d Premium in 2d Geogra-
phy; 3d Premium in 2d Orthography; 3d Premium in 2d Arithmetic.
Smart, W.—2d Premium in 3d Reading; 3d Premium in 3d Orthography;
xst Premium in 4th Geography; 4th Premium in 3d Penmanship.
Sweet, P. A.—5th Premium in xst Geography; 4th Premium in xst Christian
Doctrine; 6th Premium in 1st Orthography; 2d Mention in 1st Penmanship.
Sweet, G.—2d Premium in 3d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 4th Reading;
xst Premium in 5th Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 4th Orthography.
Tatt, C. O.—xst Premium in 5th Reading; 2d Premium in 5th Orthography;
2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic.
Tillenburg, H.—1st Premium in 3d Penmanship; 3d Premium in 3d Christian
Doctrine; 2d Premium in 4th Arithmetic; 2d Premium in 4th Reading.
Williamson, A. F.—2d Premium in 2d Penmanship; 4th Premium in 2d
Christian Doctrine; 5th Premium in 3d Arithmetic; 2d Mention in 2d Read-
ing.
FORTY-SECOND ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
OF THE

s
Sunday Evening, June 20, 1886.
Exercises by the Euglossian Association.
Monday Evening, June 21.
ORATORICAL CONTEST
Overture (Caliph of Bagdad},	Orchestra
Oration—“The Blessings of Equality,”	M. 0. Burns
Oration—“Patriotism,”	S. T. Murdock
Music (Saxophone Solo),	Prof. Kindig
Oration—“Orators and Oratory,”	- V. H. Burke
Oration—“This Land of Ours,”	- W. Jess
Music (Piano Solo),	R. Oxnard
Oration—‘ ‘ Communism, ”	- D. Byrnes
Oration—“ Liberty, ”	A. Ancheta
Oration—“ Wm. E. Gladstone,”	D. Latshaw
March for Retiring,	- N. D.U. C. B.
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.	117
Tuesday, June 22.
8.00 A. M.,	-	-	-	-	- Alumni Mass
9.30	“	-	-	-	-	- Alumni Meeting
10.30 “	-	-	-	-	-	- Regatta
1.00 P.M., - Dress Parade by Company “A” of the
Hoynes Light Guards
2.30	“	-	-	-	-	- Field Sports
distribution of premiums in tijr Minim, junior,
anir Senior departments. •
7.30 p. m.
Overture, ------ Orchestra
Cantata, -	-	-	- Orpheonic Association
OBATXOM OF THE »1T,
BY THE
Right Rev. JOHN L. SPALDING, D. D.
Closing March, -	-	-	- N. D. U. C. Band
Wednesday, June 23.
Opening March, -	-	-	- N. D. U. C. Band
Chorus, ----- Orpheonic Association
Valedictory, -	-	-	- Thomas J. Sheridan
AWARDING OF HONORS, CONFERRING OF DEGREES, ETC.
Grand Closing March, -	-	- N. D. U. C. Band
The Same S©h@Iasti@
is the title of a neat 16-pagc paper, devoted to the interests of
the students, which is published at the University every week
during term time. This journal opens a field for young writers,
who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their
talents to remain inactive.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive and literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry,
Notes on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notices of new
publications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has a
local importance for students, their parents, and all who have
attended class at the University in times past, on account of the
weekly summary of events transpiring at Notre Dame, personal
notices of former students, Rolls of Honor, Class Honors, Lists
of Excellence, etc, which appear in its columns every week.
Reports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion
of the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find a
place in this paper, and keep parents and others informed on
all that concerns their children and friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors, during the coming
year, to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past,
and the encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
$1.50 PER ANNUM, Postpaid,
Address, THE NOTRE DAME, SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Mary’s Academy.
ONE MILE WEST OF THE UNI VERS ITT OF NOTRE DAME.
MOW entering upon its 31st year of active educational work, St. Marv’s
* * Academy for Young Ladies has earned the reputation of being one of
the most thoroughly equipped and successful institutions in the United States.
The location is on the dividing ridge of the St. Lawrence and Mississippi river
systems, in the highest and healthiest part of the State.
The Academy buildings — large, well ventilated and commodious, heated
with steam, supplied with hot and cold water, and with fire-escapes of the latent
and best kind—are beautifully situated on an eminence overlooking the pictur-
esque banks of the St. Joseph River.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical education arc taught
by a Faculty of competent teachers, forty-two in number. French and
German, Plain Sewing, and every variety of Fancy Needlework, are taught
without extra charge. Book-Keeping in the regular course; Phonography and
Type-Writing extra.
W	THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC
is conducted on the plan of the best classical Conservatories of Europe. Three
instrumental lessons and one in theory, with five in general singing class,
weekly, are included in the regular pension; extra practice, pro rata.
THE ART DEPARTMENT
is modeled after the best Art Schools of Europe. In the schools of Painting
and Music, pupils may pursue a special course.
PREPARATORY AND MINIM DEPARTMENTS.
Pupils who need primary training, and those of tender age, are here carefully
prepared for the Academic courses.
For Catalogue, containing full information, address
SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS,
Notre Dame P. 0., Indiana.
■IggU A regular omnibus line between South Bend, Notre Dame, and St.
Mary’s, connects with all trains.
Notre Dame Before the Fire.