Annual Catalogue
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE
For the Academic Year 1886-87.
Annual Commencement,
'4
Wednesday, June 22, 1887.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA:
SCHOLASTIC PRESS.
1887.
I
FORTY-THIRD
Annual Catalogue
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY AND STUDENTS
OF THE


For the Academic Year 1886-87.
Annual Commencement,
Wednesday, June 22, 18870
NOTRE DAME.
SCHOLASTIC
/
Board of Trustees.
---Q----
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C,
President.
REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C S. C,
Chancellor.
VERY REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C,
Secretary.
BRO. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
Officers of the University.
-------------------o---
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. O,
President.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Director of Studies.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.5
Prefect of Religion.
Rev. TIMOTHY MAHER, C. S. C.y
Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
Senior Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C., Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,	Bro.' MAURUS, C. S. C.,
Junior Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C., Bko. MARCELLUS, C.S.C.,
Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C., Bro. ALBIUS, C. S. C.
Minim Department.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C., Bro. ANGELUS, C. S. C.
JOHN CASSIDY, M. D., Physician.
Faculty.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Christianity.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. JOHN A. O’CONNELL, C. S. C.,
Literary Criticism.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Creek Language and Literature.
Rev. A. M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences, and Assistant Curator of the Mtiseum.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
FACULTY.
Rev. LOUIS NEYRON, M. D.,
Human Anatomy and Physiology.
Rev. JOHN SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
German Language and Literature.
C3 O
JOSEPH A. LYONS, A. M., LL. D.,
Latin and Elocution.
ARTHUR J. STACE, A. M., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.?
History, and Librarian of the Lemonnier Library.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. B.,
Lavj.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
Rhetoric, and Lecturer on Political Economy.
ALBERT F. ZAHM, A. M., M. E.,
Mechanicdl Engineering.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S.,
Mathematics.
JOHN F. FEARNLEY,
English Literature.
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
Rev. J. COLEMAN, C. S. C.,
English and Penmanship.
Rev. J. THILMAN, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. J. LINNEBORN, C. S. C.,
German
Bro. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
Book-Keeping.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy.
Bro. LEO, C. S. C.,
English and Mathematics.
NEAL EWING, A. B.,
Phonography.
F.-X CLAFFEY,
Mathematics and Penmanship.
MICHAEL O’DEA,
Telegraphy and Type- Writing.
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro.	ALEXANDER,	C. S.	C.,	Bro.	EMMANUEL, C. S. C.,
Bro.	LEANDER, C.	S. C.,	Bro.	PAUL, C. S. C.,
Bro.	MARCELLUS,	C. S.	C.,	Bro.	MAURUS, C. S. C.,
Bro. ALBIUS, C. S. C.
-----0-----
Department of Fine Arts.
MUSIC.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Organ, Piano, Guitar and Piute.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Violin and Clarionet.
Bro. GIRARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin, Director of the Church Choir.
JOHN B. KINDIG,
Vocal Music, Director of the Band and Orchestra.
PAINTING AND DRAWING.
Sigsob. LUIGI GREGORI,
Historical Painting.
J. ACKERMANN,
Linear and Mechanical Drawing.

Notre Dame.
IN 1842 the Very Rev. E. Sorin, now Superior-General of the
Congregation of the Holy Cross, visited this place for the
first time. Specially e interested in the promotion of education,
as representative of the Congregation of the Holy Cross, a
mere glance fully satisfied him that this would be a most desir-
able site for an institution of learning; and he determined to
establish here the chief house of the Congregation in the United
States, the
University of .Notre (bame.
In that year it was founded, and in 1844 it was chartered by the
General Assembly of Indiana. Its growth kept pace with the
rapid progress of the Northwest ; it exhibited an enterprise not
unworthy of comparison with the energy and public spirit that
peopled the prairies and built the magnificent cities of the Missis-
sippi Valley. Building after building was erected as its continuous
progress required. The number of students gradually increased,
the standard of studies was steadily raised, and before many years
had elapsed the University attained an honorable rank among the
educational institutions of the Union.
A few years ago, however, the University was subjected to a
most severe trial. April 23, 1879, five of the buildings, including
the main one, were entirely destroyed by fire. The contents of
the museums, libraries, class-rooms, study-halls, etc., were burned
to ashes. But the energy and recuperative powers of the institution
were equal to the emergency. While the fire still lingered among
the smouldering ruins active preparation for the new building was
begun, and during May and all the summer the work of con-
structing it was busily and uninterruptedly prosecuted. When
September came, and the students returned, they found on the site
of the old building one of the largest and most magnificent college
edifices in the country. Since then the growth and progress of
The I^Iew Notice Dame. (Main Building.) Erected Aug., 1879. Dedicated Sept. 8, U879.
a

IO	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the institution have rendered necessary the construction of a wing
on either side, while several large and imposing buildings have been
erected in the vicinity. All these college buildings are new, well
lighted, thoroughly ventilated, heated by steam, and supplied with
the most useful modern improvements. They present a- striking
harmony of color, being built of cream-colored brick. A brief
description of
The Main and Ancillary (Buildings
seems not inappropriate in this connection, and the most natural
order of dealing with them assigns first place to the
Main Building. This is five stories high, while its dimensions
.are 320 x 155 feet. The distance from the ground to the electric
light just above the statue surmounting the dome is 200 feet. The
libraries, museums, art galleries, class-rooms, study-halls, dormi-
tories, lavatories, refectories, etc., are appropriately and conveniently
arranged. On the first floor are the refectories, lavatories, trunk-
rooms, armories, etc. .The refectories are richly ornamented with
mural paintings, representing many of the most celebrated churches
and buildings in the world, and beautifully illustrating the progress
of architecture. The lavatories are supplied with hot and cold
water, and have all the customary accommodations. The armories
contain about 150 stand of arms, with bayonets, accoutrements,
etc. These arms were procured from the State, and students
of the Senior and Junior departments may make use of them, form
companies, and learn to drill. The reception parlors, and offices of
the President, Secretaries, and Prefect of Discipline are on the
main floor, as are also the study-halls, several of the class-rooms,
the telegraph office, and the students’ office. This floor is made
of tiling, while the corridor is lined with a series of superb mural
paintings (the work of the distinguished Roman artist, Signor
Luigi Gregori,) which illustrate the leading events in the life of
Columbus, or, more particularly, such of them as history associates
with the discovery of America. Portraits of distinguished eccle-
siastics, including almost all the Catholic Bishops in the United
States, those living as well as those who have gone to their reward,
line the walls of the corridors on tl e floor above, and it is appro-
PROSPECTUS.	ii
priately called “the Bishops’ Gallery.” The society-rooms are
on the same floor, as are also some of the class-rooms. They are
tastefully ornamented with paintings and mural decorations, not to
mention the busts of several noted personages. The .Law Library
and Lecture-room, a small museum, and the rooms of several of
the professors, as well as two large dormitories, are likewise on
this floor. The Lemonnier Library is on the third floor, and there
also is a Museum of - Curiosities. Two large dormitories that
correspond in size and appearance to those below, together with
the rooms of students of the graduating classes, and of some of the
professors, occupy the rest of the floor. The music-rooms of the
vocal classes and the Department of Drawing take up the greater
part of the fourth floor. The Lemonnier Library contains about
30,000 volumes, not to mention miscellaneous objects of interest
gathered from all parts of the United States and many parts of the
world. In the Law Library are about 1200 volumes, including
many of the British and American Reports and the leading text-
books. From three to four wide oaken staircases afford communi-
cation between the different floors all the way from the first story
to the top of the building ; and these, supplemented by several
exits to the roofs of verandas and porticoes, with ample means of
descending safely to the ground, remove all danger of personal
injury in case of Are. But the fullest precautions have been taken
to guard against that peril. With a watchman constantly on duty,
water on each floor, and hose at hand, there is absolutely no danger
of fire. The halls throughout the building are wide, high, and
spacious. The many angles which distinguish the building were
planned and constructed in accordance with the prevailing style of
architecture at Notre Dame, which is that known as the modern
Gothic. These angles serve to give great strength and solidity to
the entire buildin g, rendering it secure against the fury of wind
and storm, not to mention the incidental advantages of good light
and perfect ventilation which they afford. Just east of it is the
magnificent new
Music Hall. This is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and
over 100 in height. The first floor is divided into recreation and
reading room-, the north end being for the Juniors and the south
for the Seniors. These rooms are supplied with newspapers,
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
periodicals, games of all kinds, billiard-tables, etc. The dressing
rooms of the Bicycle Club and of the Athletic Association are also
on this floor. The second and third floors at the north end are
appropriately divided into music-rooms, and instrumental music of
all kinds is there taught. The exhibition hall occupies the re-
mainder of the building. In it are given the more formal lectures,
as well as concerts and dramatic entertainments. Fully furnished
with the scenes, accessories and decorations appropriate to such
uses, and capable of accommodating over 1200 persons, it ranks as
one of the largest and most attractive college halls in the country.
Science Hall. The corner-stone of this imposing edifice was
laid by the Right Rev. Bishop Watterson, of Columbus, in 1883.
It is situated a few steps south of Music Hall. The dimensions
are 104 x 131 feet, and the height is three stories, or about 75 feet.
It is appropriately divided into departments, and supplied with all
the agencies requisite to facilitate the acquisition of a complete
knowledge of the sciences. The laboratories, machinery depart-
ment, lecture-rooms, museums, engine-rooms, microscopic division,
incandescent electric light plant, etc., are admirably arranged and
elegantly finished. The Hall is fully equipped with all necessary
chemicals, preparations, specimens, charts, tools, instruments, and
the innumerable accessories of a great school of science. It is said
to be one of the largest buildings devoted exclusively to scientific
studies in the United States, and its merits, we trust, will entitle it
to rank among the best. The Seniors’ campus, or play-ground, a
level tract containing about ten acres, lies southeast of it. North-
east of it is
The Gymnasium, which measures 160 feet in length and 45 in
width, and is two stories in height. It is abundantly supplied with
swings, turning-poles, horizontal bars, and other apparatus calcu-
lated to inspire a taste for gymnastic exercises. The north half is
for the use of the Juniors, whose campus surrounds it, while the
south half is set apart for the St mors. Just north of the Gymnasium
and Music Hall is St. Edward’s Park ; and fronting this, facing
south, is the noted
St. Edward’s Hall, a building four stories high, and 100 feet
in length, by 50 in width. This is for the exclusive use of pupils
under 13 years of age. It is entirely separate from the University,
PROSPECTUS.	13
though under the same general management. The building is
new, and lacks none of the appointments suggested by experience
as useful or desirable. It is divided into study-halls, class-rooms,
society rooms, dormitories, etc. The recreation hall is just east of
it, while farther east and north lies the play-ground. The pupils
are under the immediate direction of competent and experienced
teachers—Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
The Infirmary adjoins St. Edward’s Hall on the west. In
dimensions it is 100 x 45 feet, and three stories high. The General
Office occupies a portion of the first floor. The rooms on the floor
above are kept in readiness for the leception of students who at
any time become too ill to attend class and discharge their cus-
tomary duties. The regular physician of the University and the
Sisters in charge minister to the sick in all cases.
The Church stands a little west and south of the main building.
It is generally regarded as one of the most symmetrical and beautiful
church edifices in the country. In size it is 275 x 120 feet, and the
distance from the ground to the apex of the roof is about 125 feet.
It is ornamented with paintings, statuary, altar accessories, archi-
tectural devices, etc., and hours may profitably be given to the
examination and study of these and the multitudinous objects of
interest and beauty in which it abounds. In its tower is one of the
largest bells on the American continent. Besides, there are 32
smaller bells in the tower. These vary in size and constitute the
noted “chimes of Notre Dame.”
The Steam Printing Office is just north of the main
building. It contains three large power presses, a folding machine,
a mailing department, two composing rooms, and all the accessories
of a first class printing establishment. The Ave Maria and the
Scholastic^ two well-known and deservedly popular weekly publi-
| cations, are there printed. Between it and the Infirmary is
The Boiler-House, from, which rises the great chimney so
conspicuous in the vicinity. This building is provided with double
furnaces of the largest size—furnaces that sometimes consume 35
tons of coal in a day. It has, too, a full supply of engines and
other machinery. On the second floor are bath-rooms for the
i students. South of and connecting with it is an annex which
I contains the engine and plant recently placed there by the Edison
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Electric Light Company. It is one of the most powerful of the
kind in use, and by means of it the University is lighted throughout
with the incandescent electric light. The refectories, lavatories,
study halls, class-rooms, offices, and private rooms and apartments
are all supplied with this superior illuminating agency, not to
mention t e crown and crescent of the great statue, which present
a most striking appearance at night, and are visible for miles, in
every direction, like a beacon-light upon the ocean.
A regularly established United States post-office is situated on
the University grounds, a short distance from the main building.
It is particularly intended for the accommodation of the University
and St. Mary’s Academy. But there are too many buildings at
Notre Dame to receive notice in this connection. Indeed so nu-
merous are they that, if brought close together, they would cover
at least four or five acres of ground. Nevertheless, the work goes
steadily forward and great improvements are made from year to
year.
Surroundings.
The University is situated about a mile and a half north of the
flourishing city of South Bend, Ind., and about eight miles south
of Niles, Mich. It is surrounded by a fertile and prosperous farm-
ing country. And, yet, by reason of its proximity to South Bend,
it combines the'conveniences and accommodations of city life with
the salutary isolation, wholesome climate, and natural beauties of
the country. A great broad avenue runs directly south from the
University for a mile or more, and on both sides for half the
distance it is lined with shade trees. North and west of the Uni-
versity lie two beautiful lakes—St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s. The
area of the former is but a little less than 23 acres, while that
of the latter is about 24 acres. The ground slopes picturesquely
down to these lakes, and beautiful walks along the shores almost
surround them. On the higher ground, above the walks and
overlooking the lakes, are magnificent groves of oak, hickory,
sycamore, and other varieties of hard timber. St. Joseph River,
swift of current and tortuous of channel, sweeps grandly past the
University grounds on the west. The scenery along its steep and
timber-lined banks is bold, wild, romantic.
PROSPECTUS.	15
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position almost central with reference to
the most important cities of the Mississippi Valley. The railroads
running directly to South Bend are the Lake Shore and Michigan
.Southern, the grand Trunk, the Vandalia Line, and the Michigan
Central. The road last named is connected with South Bend by a
lateral line which runs south from Niles, Mich., and passes through
the University grounds. Omnibuses and other conveyances, by
which visitors can expeditiously reach Notre Dame, may be found
on the arrival of trains at the stations of the roads indicated.
(Discipline.
The regulations looking to the maintenance of discipline are
sufficiently liberal to meet the reasonable expectations of all who
try to conduct themselves as gentlemen. To these, the rules are
easy of observance ; and students whose deportment is not that of
gentlemen must not expect to remain at Notre Dame.
There is probably no great educational institution in the country
in which students become acquainted with one another more
intimately than at this University. They are brought, in connec-
tion with their several duties, into daily, if not hourly, contact.
This fact serves to emphasize the importance of requiring com-
pliance with regulations calculated to render them courteous,
upright, honorable, pure in expression, respectful to religion, and
emulous to excel in their several studies.
They are required to rise at the same time in the morning, and
meals are taken by all at the same hours during the day. All
retire not later than 9.30 o’clock p. m., and the signal for rising is
given not later than 6.30 a. m. At proper times, too, they are
expected to take necessary out-door exercise.
While persons of all religious denominations are admitted to
participation in the privileges of the University, it is, nevertheless,
a strictly Catholic institution; and all the students are required to
attend divine service at stated times.
i6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Other regulations, which time has sanctioned as salutary, may be
summarized as follows: i. No branch of study shall be discontinued
without permission of the Director of Studies. 2. No student
shall leave the University grounds without permission of the
President or Vice-President, or the persons delegated to represent
them. 3. The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except to such
students of the Senior department as receive from their parents
written permission to use it. 4. The use of intoxicating liquors is
absolutely prohibited under all circumstances. 5. Any person who
injures the property of the University must make compensation
for the same. 6. To guard against clandestine and improper cor-
respondence, the President reserves the right to supervise letters to
and from students. 7. Books, periodicals and newspapers are
subject to the approval of the Director of Studies.
General (Rema/rks.
Neither pains nor expense has been spared to secure the services
of able, experienced and gentlemanly professors, and the authorities
of the University have reason to believe that their efforts in this
direction have been attended with results particularly gratifying.
It may, too, be confidently stated that there is no educational insti-
tution in the Union that affords students more time for study or
better opportunity to acquire a sound and comprehensive education
than Notre Dame offers. Its comparative isolation insures immu-
nity from distractions of every kind; society throws no allure-
ments in the way of the student to tempt him from the performance
of his duties; association with persons of depraved tastes and bad
habits is necessarily avoided; the surroundings are favorable to
study, and the student mzist learn,— even the common pride of
wholesome emulation compels him to do so. Moreover, the
course of life pursued under the salutary discipline in force can
hardly fail to establish firmness of character and habits that go to
form a moral, temperate, honorable and conscientious man.
Students are classified according to age as Seniors, Juniors, and
Minims. The Seniors range in age from 17 years upward. Their
dormitories, study-hall, refectory, lavatories, etc., are in the east
half of the University. The Juniors, whose ages range from 13 to

V
PROSPECTUS.
17 years, occupy the west portion of it. The Minims have a build-
ing exclusively to themselves. The three departments to which
students are thus assigned, are entirely separate from one another.
Seniors and Juniors are seldom brought together, except in a few
classes of the Collegiate Course. The Minims have no direct in-
tercourse with the students of the other departments. •
There are ample accommodations for five hundred resident
students at the University. The ventilation is exceptionally good.
Scrupulous cleanliness prevails everywhere The fare is abundant
in quantity, varied in quality, and always wholesome. The class-
rooms are large and well lighted, as are also the rooms used by
the literary, dabating, dramatic, and other societies.
The societies devoted more particularly to the cultivation of
music and the drama have always been very popular, and many of
their members have reached a higher degree of proficiency than
mere amateurs are commonly expected to attain. This is largely
due to the fact that they are aided and stimulated by the sedulous
co-operation and encouragement of professors well qualified to
give instruction in music and the drama. Then,' too,- there are
societies specially intended to promote the interests of religion
and lead to a thorough knowledge of Christian doctrine. By
means of essays and debates great readiness in speaking, as well as
felicity in the expression of thought, is attained by many members
of these societies.
The students of the different departments are under the super-
vision of their respective prefects and professors; and, while they
enjoy all the freedom compatible with the requirements of good
order, they are firmly held to an observance of the courtesies and
manners recognized by gentlemen in their intercourse with one
another. But there is very little occasion for the exercise of rigor
in this respect, as the students come almost invariably from homes
in which they have been brought up under the salutary influence
of careful and proper training. They have been taught to observe
the manners that distinguish upright and honorable young men,
and it is an important aim of the discipline in force at Notre Dame
to habituate them to such manners, and to make them in all
respects thorough, accomplished and carefully educated gentlem n—
gentlemen whose lives will be useful and honorable, and tend to
reflect credit upon their parents, themselves, and the University.

EXPENSES
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.
Matriculation Fee,
5 00
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION,
(Latin, Greek, and Modern Languages in-
cluded,). Washing and Mending of Linens,
per Session, -
150 00
The first Session begins on the first Tuesday of Septem-
ber; the second on the first of February.
No money will be refunded unless students have been dis
missed> or withdrawn at the request of the College authorities.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $io; Scientific Course,
$io; Special Course of English, $io; Law Course, $io; Civil
Engineering Course, $io; Commercial Course, $5.
Students who spend the Summer Vacation at the
University are charged, extra, $40.
OPTIONAL STUDIES
Any of the following may
per session:
be taken at the rate
mentioned
Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano^ and Use of Instru-
ment,	:
Lessons onViolin, Guitar,Saxo-
phone, Flute, and Cornet,
$22
So
12
( General Prin-
Vocal Lessons j ciples, - - 5
{ Vocal Culture, 15
Elocution—Special Course, - 5
5o
OO
OO
OO
Use of Library, - - - -
Artistic Drawing, - - - -
Telegraphy, ------
Type-Writing—Full Course,
Phonography,
Use of Philosophical and Chern
ical Apparatus,
Oil Painting,
Gymnastics—Full Course,
IO
IO
IO
OO
OO
OO
OO
OO
15
5
OO
OO
OO
Qualitative Chemical Analysis taken at the expense of the
student.
Program me ©f Studies.

Preparatory Department
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the
Classical or Scientific Course. Students who have completed the
course receive a diploma admitting them to membership in the
Freshman Class. Those entering the department are expected to
be able to read and write, besides having an elementary knowl-
edge of Grammar, Arithmetic and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—As far as the end of regular Conjugations.
—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.
■—Harkness.
3	Historia Sacra.
11.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—To Irregular Verbc.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geog-
raphy of the United States, including Outlines of Physical
Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Sadlier.
5	Penmanship.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Normal Higher Arith-
metic.—Brooks.
2 The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections I and II.
—Brooks.
9
20	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology com-
pleted.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
3	Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
IL—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—Etymology Completed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa,
including outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
4	Penmanship.
III.—HISTORY.
i U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.
—Sadlier.
iv._mathematics.
i Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers
(exclusive), Normal Higher Arithmetic.—Brooks.
2	The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Section III.—Brooks.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harkness.
z Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to
Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3	Roman History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	21
"mu
II	.—GREEK. .
1	Grammar—From the beginning to the Verb.— Goodwin.
2	. Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek Ollendorf.—Kendrick.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Normal
Higher Arithmetic.—Brooks.
2	The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections IV and V.
—Brooks.
SECOND SESSION.	’
I.—LATIN.	.
1	Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Second Part Completed—Introduction to Latin Com-
position.—Harkness.
3	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 26th to 61st Lesson. — Greek Ollendorf.
—Kendrick.
3	Jacob’s Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.— Casserly.
4	Gospel of St.John—Selections by the Teacher.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Arithmetic—From Percentage to Involution—Normal Higher
Arithmetic.—Brooks.
2	The Normal Mental Arithmetic—Section VI.—Brooks.
3	Algebra (begun)—to Simple Equations—University Algebra.
—Robinson.
22	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
’ I.-LATIN.
i St. Ambrose—Extracts.
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
IL—GREEK.
i	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.
— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, First Greek Book.
"	—Spencer*s Arnold.
3 Anabasis—First Book.
III.—ENGLISH.
i	General Study of Syntax.—Harvey and Brown.
2	Exercises—Composition.
IV.—HISTORY.
i	Ancient History—To Roman History.— Vuibert.
V.—MATHEMATICS.	'
i Arithmetic—From Involution to the End.—Normal Higher
Arith m etic.—Brooks.
2	The New Normal Mental Arithmetic—Sections VII and VIII.
—Brooks.
3	Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive),
University Algebra.^—Robinson.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.
2	Caesar—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Third Part.—Introduction to Latin Composition Com-
pleted.—Harkness.	'
4	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
23
IL—GREEK.
1	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.
—Spencer's Arnold.
3	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
III.—ENGLISH.
1 Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.
—Harvey and Frown.
IV.	- HISTORY.
1	Ancient History—History of Rome.— Vuibert.
V—	MATHEMATICS.
1 Algebra—From Radicals (inclusive) to Series—University Al-
gebra.—Robinson.
«
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a
strict examination in all the studies of the three Preparatory
Years, unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty
and pronounced satisfactory.
Collegiate Department:
I. CLASSICAL COURSE. II. SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
*2
S’
Collegiate Department.
I. -CLASSICAL COURSE.
FRESHMAN YEAR
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Lactantius—De Opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
2	Virgil—Books I and II of ,/Eneid.
3	Sallust—Catiline.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.— Casserly.
$ Exercises—Prose Composition.
II._GREEK.
i Grammar—Syntax.— Goodwin,
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition.
3	Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III.—ENGLISH.
i	Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Hart.
2	Rhetorical Study of Selections in Prose.
3	Compositions on Familiar Topics.
IV.—HISTORY.
i	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra (completed)—From Series to the End—University
Algebra.—Robinson.
Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Virgil—Books V and VI of ,/Eneid—Selections from Bucolics
and Georgies.
2	Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—Rules Completed.— Casserly.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	37
II.—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
2	St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
3	Cyropaedia—First Book.
4	Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Composi-
tion.—Spencer's Arnold.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the End, with Review
of Composition.—Hart.
2	Rhetorical Study of Selections in Poetry.
3	Compositions on Familiar Topics.
IV.—HISTORY.
1 Modern History—From Crusades to the End.—Fredet.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed)—Solid.—Loomis.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION
I.—LATIN.
1	Ovid—Books I and XIII of Metamorphoses.
2	Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Arch’as.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
4	Prosody—From Rules to Versification.— Casserly.
IL—GREEK.
1	St. Gregory—Machabees.
2	Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
3	Exercises—Prose Composition.
HL—ENGLISH.
1	Science of Rhetoric.—D. J. Hill.
2	English Literature.—Morley and Tyler.
3	Lectures on Special Periods of English Literature.
4	Essays and Orations.

28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene.—Martin.
V.—HISTORY.
i History of England.—Burke's Lingard.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.	“
i St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
2	Horace—Odes—Ars Poetica.
3	Cicero—De Senectute.
4	Exercises—Selected.
5	Prosody.— Casserly.
6	Verses.
IL—GREEK.
i	Homer—Iliad continued.
2	Thucydides—First Book.
3	Exercises—Selected.
III.—ENGLISH.
i Science of Rhetoric.—B. J. Hill.
2	English Literature.—Morley and Tyler.
3	Study of Selected Plays of Shakespeare.
4	Essays and Orations.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i Trigonometry—The entire subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
V.—HISTORY.
i History of England.—Burke's Lingard.
CLASSICAL COURSE
29
JUNIOR YEAR.
I
2
3
4
I
2
3
4
I
2
3
4
5
I
I
I
2
1
2
3
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
Livy—Two Books.
Horace—Satires and Epistles.
Composition—Original Themes.
Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
II.—GREEK.
St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
Demosthenes—De Corona.
Homer—Odyssey.
Exercises—Selected.
HL—ENGLISH.
Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
Elements of Literary Criticism.—Blair.
American Literature.— Tyler.
Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
Narrative and Descriptive Composition.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
Logic.—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
Botany—Organography, Histology, and General Classification
of Plants.—Bessey.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
Physics, Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
Composition—Original Themes.
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IL—GREEK.
i	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
2	AEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
4	Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
III.—ENGLISH.
i	Elocution.
2	Elements of Literary Criticism.—Blair.
3	American Literature.— Tyler.
4	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
5	Expository and Argumentative Composition.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Ontology and Psychology.—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.—Kellerman. (Laboratory
Practice optional.)
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2	Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens. ' '
2	Quintillian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
i	Plato—Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
3i
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Theodicy and Ethics.— Jouin.
2 Dissertations.
IV—HISTORY.
i Philosophy of History,
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Conic Sections.—Loomis.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2	Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
IL—GREEK.
i Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Aristophanes—Selections.
4	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
HI.—PHILOSOPHY.
i Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by the Professor.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology and Paleontology.—Dana.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Astronomy—Entire Subject.—Loomis.
N. B.—During the four years of this course, students have
an opportunity of attending Lectures on Historical, Literary,
Philosophical and Scientific subjects.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Elective Studies
Commercial—Book-Keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing (Figure, Landscape, Mechanical
and Architectural).
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying.
Dogma.
II.—SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
The preparatory studies are the same as for the Classical
Course, except that Latin or Greek may be replaced by one
of the Modern Languages.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.—Hart.
2 Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra (Completed)—From Series (inclusive) to the end—
University Algebra.—Robinson.	j
2 Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene.—Martin.
i Microscopy—The Manipulation of the Microscope.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.*
V	.—DRAWING.
i Linear Drawing.
* Students choosing to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades
of the Classical Course. For French, German and Spanish, see programme of
the Course of Modern Languages.
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
• i Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of
Composition—Essays.—Hart.
2 Modern History—From the Crusades to the End.—Fredet.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed), Geometry of Space
(Solid and Spherical).—Loomis.
Ill—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.—Holder.
2 Demonstrations in Zoology in the Biological Laboratory.
IV—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V—DRAWING.
i	Architectural Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—ENGLISH.
i Science of Rhetoric.—D. y. Hill.
2	English Literature—Morley and Tyler.
3	History of England.—Lingard.
4	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II—M ATHEMATICS.
i Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
Ill—NATURAL SCIENCES.
I Botany—Oganography, Histology and General Classification
of Plants.—Bessey.
2. Demonstrations in the Biological Laboratory.
IV—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V—DRAWING.
i Machine Drawing.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	35
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.	.
i Science of Rhetoric.—D. J. Hill.
2	English Literature—Morley and Tyler.
3	History of England.—Lingard.
4	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
i Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.— Gillespie.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.—Kellerman.
2 Principles of Cellular Biology—Lectures by the Professor.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V	.—DRAWING.
i Free-Hand Drawing.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION-
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Proper-
ties of Minerals.— Collins.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
'	V.—DRAWING.
i Theory—Isometry.— Warren's Plane Projection.
z Practice—Exercises in Blending and Shading;—India Ink, and
Sepia.
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i General Geometry and Calculus.
2 Astronomy—Entire Subject.—Loomis.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2 Chemistry—(Elementary)—Inorganic Chemistry.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i	Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
— Collins.
2	Practice in Determination of Minerals, Blowpipe Analysis and
Metallurgy.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
i	French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V.—DRAWING.
i Theory—Perspective.
2	Practice—Exercises in the Use of Water Colors.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i	Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
2	. Geodesy—Field Practice.—Henck.
3	Mechanics—Saties.—Smith.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
i Logic and General Metaphysics.—Hill.
III.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i General Physics.
2 Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Dana.
V.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
VI.—DRAWING.
i	Theory—Aerial Perspective and Decorative Art.
2	Practice—Use of Water Colors, etc.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	37
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i Shades and Shadows.—Davies.
2	Geodesy.
3	Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics.—Smith.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
I Special Metaphysics—Lectures by the Professor.
HI.—HISTORY.
i Philosophy of History.
IV.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
4 V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology and Paleontology.—Dana.
VI.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
Elective Studies.
In the Junior and Senior Years there are special courses in the
Natural Sciences, which are left to the option of the student.
Languages—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts—
Painting, Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music—Vocal and
Instrumental. Dogma. Ecclesiastical History.
• Any student in this course is at liberty to take any of these
studies at any period of his course, provided he can do so consist-
ently with his regular studies. In addition to the regular recita-
tions and practical illustrations in the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Lectures are given throughout the course by the Professors.
* It must be remembered that the Language which is taken up at the begin-
ning of the Freshman Year must be continued to the end of the course, or
till satisfactorily known.
' Z~
SPECIAL COURSES
SPECIAL ENGLISH COURSE-LAW COURSE-CIVIL
ENGINEERING—THE COMMERCIAL COURSE-
MODERN LANGUAGES.	-
Special Courses.
------» »------—
I. SPECIAL ENGLISH COURSE.
---o----
a CH ANGE is coming over American Colleges with respect
to the teaching of English. Till a very recent period the
higher brane I es of Rhetoric and Literary Criticism did not receive
all the attention they deserved. The last decade has witnessed
a marked improvement in this point, and the importance of the
higher study of English is rapidly being recognized at all the
great educational institutions of this country and of Europe. It
has been remarked by a great authority that, “ when once the
English language and English and American Literature become
recognized as a regular educational course, the advantages will
be so great as to constitute nothing short of a national benefit.”
The Faculty of the University of Notre Dame, recognizing
the fact that the exclusive study of the ancient languages and
of pure science is not in itself sufficient for a liberal education,
have determined to institute a course which shall provide for
a more than ordinarily thorough acquaintance with the English
language and with English and American literature. At the
same time, all that is most serviceable in the Classical and Scientific
courses will be made an indispensable requisite.
The course will extend over a period of four years, and those
who have completed the prescribed studies and passed the ex-
aminations satisfactorily will receive the degree of Bachelor of
Letters.
A high standard will be kept up throughout the course in all
English branches, and the degree will be conferred on no one
who, besides giving evidence of proficiency in the Classics and
Science, has not also given proof of ability to apply the principles
of composition and shown an acquaintance with the writings of
the best authors in English and American literature.
ENGLISH COURSE	41
The appended scheme of the course explains itself; it is only
necessary to emphasize the f blowing points:
(1)	From the beginning of the course to the end special attention will be
paid to Essay writing, and each essay will be read and criticised in
its author’s presence.
(2)	Facilities are afforded for a training in journalism bv the publication,
weekly, of the Notre. Dame Scholastic, a twenty-four page paper
devoted to the interests of the students, the columns of which are
always open to their contributions. Every student of the course will
be expected, after the expiration of the first year, to contribute to
the Scholastic at least two articles per session.
(3)	A familiarity will be required with the masterpieces of the leading English
and American authors, and students will be encouraged to peruse the
works of such authors during their leisure hours by having access at
all times to a library containing a complete collection of all the English
Classics.
(4)	A Graduation Thesis will be required of every student'; this must show,
besides grace of style, a scholarly treatment of the theme selected. The
choice of themes will be left to the graduates, subject to the approval
of the Faculty.
The preparatory studies for this course are the same as those
introductory to the Classical Course, with the exception that Latin
or Greek may be replaced by one of the Modern Languages.
The Faculty have determined to spare no pains to render this
course of the utmost value and interest to the students, and to
encourage them to acquire a thorough familiarity with their native
language and a facility in speaking and in composition, which is
everywhere recognized as an indispensable requisite for success
in any profession in which they may be engaged in after life.
The programme of studies is as follows:
FIRST YEAR. — DICTION.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1 Elements of Rhetoric—English Composition and Rhetoric.
—Hart.
1 Rhetorical Study of Selections in Prose.
3 Compositions on Familiar Topics.
42	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IL—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.*
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra - (Completed)—From Series (inclusive) to the end—
University Algebra.— Robinson.
z Geometry—Plane Geometry — Five Books. — Loomis.
IV	.—HISTORY.
*
i Modern History To the Crusades.—Fredet.
V	.-NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene.—Martin.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Elements of Rhetoric—Figures and Qualities of Style.—Hart.
z Rhetorical Study of Selections in Poetry.
3 Compositions on Familiar Topics.
IL—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
HL—HISTORY.
i Modern History—From the Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed) - Solid Geometry.
—Loomis.
* Students choosing to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades
of the Classical Course. For French, German and Spanish, see programme
of the Course of Modern Languages.
ENGLISH COURSE
43
SECOND YEAR. — BELLES-LETTRES.
I
2
3
4
5
6
i
i
i
i
2
I
2
3
4
5
FIRST SESSION
I.—ENGLISH.
Higher Rhetoric—Written Exercises and Oral Discussions—
Science of Rhetoric.—D. J. Hill.
Biographical Study of English Literature.— Morley and Tyler's
Manual.
Lectures on Special Periods of English Literature.
Study of Select Passages of Quintilian in English.
Essays and Orations.
Lectures on Models of Style.
II. - LANGUAGES.
Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
HI.—HISTORY.
History of England.—Burkds Lingard.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
Trigonometry—The entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
V	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.—Holder.
Demonstrations in Zoology in the Biological Laboratory.
0
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
Higher Rhetoric—Written Exercises and D. J. Hill’s Science of
Rhetoric — Oral Discussions.
English Literature.—Morley and Tyler's Manual.
Lectures on Models of Style.
Essays and Declamations.
Study of Selections from Aristotle’s Rhetoric translated into
English.
44	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II.—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
III	.—HISTORY.
i History of England.—Burke's Lingard.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.—Kellerman.
2	Principles of Cellular Biology—Lectures by the Professor.
THIRD YEAR. — LITERATURE.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Elements of Literary Criticism—Blair’s Lectures on Rhetoric
and Belles-Lettres.
2	Biographical Study of American Literature — Tyler’s Manual,
Supplemented by Lectures on Special Periods.
3	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
4	Narrative and Descriptive Composition.
II.—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French, Ger-
man or Spanish.
HI.—HISTORY.
i Lectures on History and the Philosophy of History—European
Civilization.—Balmes.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
i	Logic.—San Severino.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i	Elements of Literary Criticism.—Blair.
2	American Literature—Lectures on Special Periods.
3	Critical Study of Standard American Authors.
4	Expository and Argumentative Composition.
ENGLISH COURSE.	45
II.—LANGUAGES.	•
1 Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
Ill—HISTORY.
1 Lectures on History and the Philosophy of History.
IV—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1 Ontology and Psychology.—San Severino.
V—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2	Chemistry (Elementary) — Inorganic Chemistry..	‘
FOURTH YEAR. — PHILOSOPHY.
FIRST SESSION.
I—ENGLISH.
1	Lectures on the Principles of Literary Criticism.
2	Lectures on the Philosophy of Style.
3	Oratorical Composition — Discussion of Themes — Extempo-
raneous Speaking.
4	Lectures on the Literature of the Nineteenth Century.
II—LANGUAGES.
1 Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
HI—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1	Lectures on the Principles of Political Economy.
2	Lectures on Civil Government.
IV—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1 Moral Philosophy.— Jouin.
V—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Geology—Dynamical and Lithological Geology.—Dana.
46	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
-	SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Lectures on the Principles of Literary Criticism.
2	Lectures on the Philosophy of Style.
3	Extemporaneous Speaking—Oral Discussion of Topics in His-
tory and Political Economy.
4	Lectures on the ./Esthetics of Literature.
II	.—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages—Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
III	.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
i Lectures on the Principles of Political Economy.
2 Lectures on the Constitution and Political History of the United
States.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
i Lectures on Philosophical Systems and History of Philosophy.
2 Moral Philosophy.—Jouin.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology and Paleontology.—Dana.
VI.—MATHEMATICS.
i Astronomy—Entire Subject.—Loomis.
II—LAW COURSE.
NUMEROUS changes have recently been made in this De-
partment. The regular course has been extended to a period
of three years; the standard of studies has been raised to the most
approved plane, and the Lecture system has been substituted for
the compulsory use of text-books. It may now be confidently
claimed that no Law School in the country offers superior facilities
for acquiring a thorough and practical knowledge of the Law.
Students of the Law Department pass through a course that
qualifies them to undergo the most searching examination for
admission to the Bar in any part of the Union. No special
preparation is requisite for matriculation. Any person who is 17
years of age, and has a fair English education, is eligible. Young
men may enter the Department as students at any time during the
year; though, of course, it is more desirable to do so at the
beginning of the session.
The diploma admits, without examination, to the Bar of Indiana,
subject to the Constitutional provision referred to in the following
extract from a letter recently received from the Clerk of the
Supreme Court:
“I am directed by the Chief Justice to say that all graduates [of the Law
Department of the University of Notre Dame] will be admitted, without an
examination, upon proper motion, at any time when the Court is in Session,
subject, of course, to the Constitutional provision that applicants for admission
shall be voters in the State of Indiana.”
Methods of Instruction.
Instruction is given by means of daily Lectures, with accompany-
ing examinations, and the trial from week to week of Moot-Court
cases. The order of procedure in these cases corresponds as closely
as practicable to that followed in the trial of actual cases and suits
in the regular .courts of law and equity. The Lectures embrace
the various subjects, and deal with all the leading topics of Contracts,
Torts, International, Constitutional, Commercial, Maritime and
4§
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Criminal Law, as well as with Medical Jurisprudence, Common
Law and Equity Pleadings and Practice, Code Pleadings and
Practice, Evidence, etc.
Each candidate for a degree is required to prepare and submit to
the Faculty a thesis of at least 30 folio pages upon some legal sub-
ject, the selection of which is left to himself. This should be
submitted about a month before graduation, and it must be satis-
factory both in substance and manner of treatment. The element-
ary text-books may be read collaterally with the Lectures, though
these are more comprehensive than in other Law Schools, and
cover all subjects likely to arise in connection either with actual
practice or the most searching examination. They deal with all
the living branches of the Law, and the student who writes full
notes of them, and diligently studies the same, acquires a complete
and reliable knowledge of its principles. The decisions of the
courts are based upon these principles, and it is the aim of the
course of instruction at Notre Dame to impress them upon the
mind in so clear and thorough a manner that they are not likely
ever to be forgotten. Their relations to one another are pointed
out, the growth of subordinate principles from them is explained,
and their application to actual or hypothetical cases emphasizes the
important office they serve in furnishing a key to complicated
questions of law and equity.
While the Lectures impart as general a knowledge of the Law
as students require for admission to the Bar and practice in the
courts, it is nevertheless deemed advisable to urge them to pursue
collaterally a course of reading. The works here named are
recognized and recommended as among the most serviceable and
popular of
Standard Law (Books.
Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries, Walker’s American
Law, Reeve’s or Schooler’s Domestic Relations, Angell and Ames
on Corporations, Parsons on Contracts, Williams or Washburn on
Real Property, Story on Agency, Stephen’s or Gould’s Pleading,
Greenleaf on Evidence, Edwards or Story on Bailments, Parsons
on Bills, Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, Lindley or Parsons on
' 14
-----------------------------------------------------------------------.	4
LAW COURSE.	49
J
Partnership, Bishop on Marriage and Divorce, Bishop on Crim-
inal Law, Willard’s Equity, Story’s Equity Pleadings, Cooley or
Addison on Torts, Cooley on Taxation, Cooley’s Constitutional
Limitations, Schouler’s Personal Property, Redfield on Wills,
Wheaton’s International Law, Story’s Conflict of Laws, Benjamin
on Sales, Parsons’ Maritime Law, Dillon on Municipal Corpora-
tions, Sedgwick on the Measure of Damages, Freeman on Judg-
ments, Freeman on Executions, Bouvier’s Law Dictionary, Taylor’s
Medical Jurisprudence, Ewell’s Evans on Agency, Perry on
Trusts, Benjamin’s Chalmers Digest—Bills, Notes and Checks,—
Hutchinson on Carriers, Sutherland on Damages, etc.
All these books may be made available in actual piactice, and
consequently students need incur no special loss in purchasing
as many of them as they can find time to read. However, this is
a matter which, to a great extent, is left optional with themselves. ;
It is not regarded as essential to read in connection with the L< ctures
more than a few of the works indicated in the preceding list. The
Lectures are prepared with reference to this fact; and one of the "
objects in view in so preparing them is to place at a minimum
figure
The Expenses
incident to pursuing the study of Law at Notre Dame. It does
not admit of doubt that many bright and worthy young men in
different parts of the country are deterred from gratifying a
cherished ambition to engage in the study of Law by the apprehen-
sion that they cannot meet the expenses necessarily incident to
doing so. They suppose that the single item of books demands an
outlay of from $150 to $300. But that supposition is erroneous.
The study of Law can be pursued at Notre Dame without any
noteworthy expense, aside from such as is voluntarily incurred. In
that particular, there is probably no university in the country that
surpasses this in the inducements offered to students. The Law
Library of the University, which contains all the standard text-
books, as well as the Reports of all the States and Territories,
and of all the Federal Courts, is free and open at all reasonable
hours to the students of this Department. The Law Lecture
5o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
room is scrupulously neat, well lighted, and furnished with
desks for the students. It is one of the best, most commodious
and most comfortable rooms in the main building. While the
incidental expenses are merely nominal, the accomodations, which
include board, lodging, washing, etc., are excellent in all respects;
and the course of study covers a period of ten months in the year.
In other well known institutions the annual duration of the pro-
fessional courses is from six to nine months. In view of all the
facts, it is believed that the study of law is attended with less
expense here than in any other well known law school. But it is
hardly necessary to indicate more particularly in this connection
the special advantages offered to students of this Department.
Course of Study.
The Law Course covers a period of three years. But in cases
where students are entitled to advanced standing, by reason of pre-
vious study, or where they daily attend twro Lectures, they may be
graduated in two years or less, providing they satisfactorily acquit
themselves in the final examination. The authorities have been
actuated, by commendable motives in extending the Law Course
to three years. In the first place, they recognize that the standing
of the professions has been lowered by a too indiscriminate admis-
sion to them of persons of limited education. And they are aware
that to such persons, in most cases, a professional life offers numer-
ous disappointments, and but few laurels. It frequently proves to
be a life barren of results, and the fact is usually discovered too
late to admit of being effectually remedied. Having made their
choice, they find themselves, as a rule, subject to circumstances
that forbid a change of occupation. It is also recognized that,
generally speaking, young men do not make amends for defects
in their education after taking upon themselves the stern duties of
practical life, and becoming involved in the engrossing cares and
ceaseless activities of business. To guard against such disappoint-
ments and mistakes, it is sought to make graduation in this Depart-
ment a sufficient test of the education and professional qualifications
of the student to assure him that he is making a proper choice, and
to assur the profession that he may be admitted to its ranks with-
LAW COURSE.	51
out detracting from its dignity, compromising its honor or lowering
its standard.
With a view, therefore, to supplying young men with a good
general education, as well as with thorough professional knowledge,
all the departments of the University are open to them. With-
out extra expense, they may enter the classes and pursue the
studies of the Scientific and Classical courses, and be graduated in
the same, if they so desire. As they find time and have inclination,
they may study Mathematics, the Natural and Physical Sciences,
Literature, Ancient and Modern Languages, etc., in connection
with the Law. And thus the authorities of the University seek to
meet the most exacting expectations of its friends, and the public
generally, by assuring to students of this Department not only
qualifications of a high order in their profession, but also a sound
general education.
Such are some of the considerations that have actuated the
authorities to extend the Law Course to a period of three years.
Students of this course mingle with the other students of the Uni-
versity, and, without distinction, have the same advantages, privi-
leges and accommodations. They are likewise subject to the same
rules of discipline. These rules have been adopted with reference
to the acknowledged fact that a high moral standard is an import-
ant requisite to an honorable and successful career. They are cal-
culated to shape the lives of students in accordance with such
standard, and to inculcate at the same time a wholesome tone of
manly dignity and honor, as well as a just appreciation of the
claims of social and professional ethics.

Ill—CIVIL ENGINEERING.
Cj ANDIDATES for admission into this Course must exhibit
proof of proficiency in the art of Drawing as laid down in
the Scientific Course, and must pass a thorough examination, such
as is required of Scientific graduates, in Chemistry, Physics,
Geology, Mineralogy, and in the several branches of Pure and
Mixed Mathematics. The Course of Civil Engineering can then
be completed in one year, as follows:
FIRST SESSION.
I
2
I
2
I.—DRAWING.
Theory—Shades, Shadows, etc.—Advanced Course in Perspec-
tive.
Practice—Topographical Drawing.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
Civil Engineering—(Begun).—Mahan.
Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
Pure Mathematics—Calculus Reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
i
i
2
I.—DRAWING.
Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions—Stone-
C utting.
ii—applied Mathematics.
Civil Engineering — Concluded. — Mahan.
Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
Hydraulics.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
\ I /HIS course is designed to familiarize the student simultane-
A ously with the principles and practice of Mechanical Engi-
neering. He will be required to devote from nine to twelve hours
per week to the exercises of the laboratory and workshop, and to
give good evidence of manual dexterity, and an acquaintance
with all the operations of the machine shop, the wood-working
departments, foundry, and blacksmith-shop. The exercises of the
fourth year will be confined chiefly to the making of precise
measurements, the testing of materials, engines, pumps, boilers,
etc., a tour of inspection, original research, and preparation of
thesis.
Candidates for the Freshman Year must pass an examination in
the Commercial Course, Ancient and Modern History, Algebra
(through Quadratic Equations), and Plane Geometry. Practical
shop work may be taken by students of the preparatory grades.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
SECOND SESSION.
Algebra.—Robinson.
Solid Geometry.—Loomis.
Composition.—Hart.
P hy si ology.—Martin.
Linear Drawing.
Shop Work.
Trigonometry and Mensuration.
—Loomis.
R h etoric.—Hart.
Botany.—Kellerman.
Linear Drawing.
Shop Work.
54	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
SECOND SESSION.
Calculus.— Olney.
English Literature.
—Morley and Tyler.
French or German.
Chemistry and Physics.
Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
Shop Work.
Analytical Geometry.
English Literature.
— Morley and Tyler.
French or German.
Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
Chemistry and Physics.
Machine Drawing.
Shop Work.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
Analytical Mechanics.
French or German.
Materials of Engineering.
Chemistry and Physics.
Kinematics and Machine Draw-
ing.
Shop Work.
SECOND SESSION.
Analytical Mechanics.
French or German.
Machinery and Mill Work.
Chemistry and Physics.
Kinematics and Machine Draw-
ing.
Shop Work.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
Prime Movers.
French or German.
Logic.—Hill.
Mineralogy and Metallurgy.
Machine Drawing and Design.
Experimental Mechanics.
SECOND SESSION.
Prime Movers.
French or German.
Metaphysics.—Hill.
Mineralogy and Metallurgy.
Machine Drawing and Design.
Experimental Mechanics.
V. COMMERCIAL COURSE.
VT7HIS Course requires two years’ study for graduation : it in-
eludes arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United '
States History, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-keeping, 1
and Commercial Law,— in other words, all the branches of a
■s
complete business education.	11
Considering the character and needs of the country— especially j
of the great West in which we live, this course is the most prac-	'
tical, and one of the most important that an educational institution	,
can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or the means to take a
complete College course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of i
study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such
studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The training	.
resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to	;
the student.	;
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received
the most careful attention from the officers and Commercial
Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the grad-
uates of this course a more complete business training than can be
obtained in any purely commercial college. Believing that a busi-
ness education includes something more than a mere knowledge of
Book-keeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few
weeks, the authorities have extended this course over two years,
the shortest time in which the studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a student desire during this period
to pursue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. General History
and Linear Drawing are especially recommended to the students
of this course. They will also in the future have the opportunity
of attending an elementary course of the Physical and Natural
Sciences. Many commercial students find it also to their advantage
to take up the study of German or French, for which there are
the amplest facilities. A talented and studious young man may
56	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
thus in the course of two years find himself in possession of a
most valuable practical education, which will fit him to take his
place in the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
BOTH SESSIONS.
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Year Preparatory of
Classical Course
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Year Preparatory of Clas-
sical Course
3	Geography—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate Prepara-
tory Course (Eclectic Series).
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate
Preparatory Course.—SacUier.
5	Reading and Orthography.
6	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.
5	Penmanship.
SECOND SESSION.
i Arithmetic—Written and Mental—'^Completed)—Same as in 2d Session of
Second Year Preparatory.
2 Grammar and Essays—Same as in 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory.
3 Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc
5	Commercial Law.
6	Penmanship.
Optional Studies.—Phonography, Telegraphy, Type-Writing, General
History, and Linear Drawing.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:
—Preparatory Intructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by
Double Entry; 1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of
J	MODERN LANGUAGES.	57
I	**
[	Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, On account of Others;
;	3d Series, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th
|	Series, Importing and Exporting on Private Account, on Account of
J	Others, and on Account of Ourselves and Others in Company; 5th
|	Series, Receiving and Forwarding Merchandise, the Management
I	and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling, Re-
.	mitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of
।	Exchange, Banking — Private and Joint Stock,—Steamboating,
5	Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’
।	Accounts. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Law. Partic-
s	ular attention is paid to the explanation of the Law of Negotiable
■ Paper.
VI.—MODERN LANGUAGES.
GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—One Hundred Exercises.
2 Exercises in Reading, Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND SESSION
1 Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—From the 100th to the 200th
Exercise.
2 Exercises in Reading, and Written Translations.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1 Ahn’s Second German Book.
2 German Reader.
3 Written Exercises—Daily.
58	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
i Ahn’s Second German Book—To the end.
2	German Reader—Continued.
3	Written Exercises—Daily.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION
i	Ahn’s Third German Book—75 Exercises.
2	Leseiibungen und Erklarung ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s Lesebuch,
erster Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik—die Formenlehre.
4	Taglich eine schriftliche Aufgabe.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Third German Book—To the end.
2	Bone’s Lesebuch—Fortsetzung.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Formenlehre.
4	Taglich eine schriftliche Aufgabe.
FOURTH YEAR,
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Sprachliche und sachliche Erklarung- ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s Lese-
buch, zweiter Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik—die Satzlehre.
4	Aufsatzlehre.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the End.
2	Lesen, Erklaren und Declamiren ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s Lesebuch,
zweiter Theil.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Satzlehre.
4	Aufsatzlehre, und Einleitung zur deutschen Literatur.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
FRENCH.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fiva’s Elementary French Reader—Twenty Pages.
3	Orthography.
SECOND SESSION
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty-nine Lessons—Regular
Verbs.
2	De Fiva’s Reader—To the End.
3	Orthography.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION
i Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty-five Lessons, and from page 261 to page
357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet’s Literature.
3	Letter-Writing.
SECOND SESSION
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to the end of First Part, and
from page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Etymology
2	Litterature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
SECOND SESSION
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Telemaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other
Modern Languages—especially the Spanish, a knowledge of which
is now becoming so useful to students from the Southern and
Southwestern States and Territories.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Science Hall, Notre Dame. Corner-Stone laid, 1883; Completed, 1885.
Miscellaneous.
(Post=Graduate Course.
THE students in this Course occupy themselves with Philoso-
phy, History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law,
Medicine, and Civil Engineering are optional studies of the Course.
Civil Engineering.
The Course of Civil Engineering has been established of late
years, and it affords advanced students the opportunity of fitting
themselves for the practice of this eminent profession.
The department of (Physical and .Natural Sciences.
Notre Dame has always given special attention to the cultivation
of the Physical and Natural Sciences, but during the past few
years extra efforts have been made in this direction, with a view of
affording to her students all the facilities and advantages that may
be found elsewhere. A large and commodious building, in the
Romanesque style, known as “Science Hall,” has been erected for
this purpose, and it is the intention of the authorities to make it
as perfect in all its appointments as any similar institution in the
country. It is one hundred and thirty-one feet long by one
hundred and four feet deep, and proportionally high. There are
upwards of twenty-five spacious, well-lighted and well ventilated
rooms in the building, nearly all of which are designed either as
lecture rooms or laboratories for the various branches of experi-
mental science.
The building has been carefully planned for the purposes to
which it is appropriated, and embodies in its construction all the
improvements and conveniences to be found in the most approved
scientific structures of this country and Europe. The ground
plans given herewith will show the size and general arrangement
of the various rooms, and their connection with the Museum
proper.
64	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	*	j
--------------------------------------------------------------- ।
Special attention has been given" to make the building convenient i
both for the professor and student. The laboratories, lecture-rooms, i
t
and cabinets are so connected with each other, and with the grand j
apartments set aside for the museum, that specimens and apparatus	’
are always at hand when desired, and where they can be used.	j
Ground-Plan (Science Hall). Basement.
A.—Store Room.	G.—Room for Dynamo-electric Ma-
B.—Workshop.	chines.
C.—Metallurgical Laboratory.	II.—Engine Room.
D.—Boiler Room.	I, J, K, L, M.—Laboratories for Spe-
E, F.—Laboratories of Mechanical	cial Work.
Engineering.
The students of Natural History have their specimens systematic-
ally arranged in rooms adjoining their laboratories, whilst the stu-
dents of Chemistry and Physics have their cabinets conveniently
MISCELLANEOUS.
near, and, at the -same time, independent of each other, owing to
the peculiar plan of the building. The various classes can enter
the rooms and laboratories without interfering in any way with
one another, and can continue their studies and experiments indefi-
nitely without interruption. The general principles of science are
Ground-Plan (Science Hall), ist Floor.
A.—Museum
B.—Chemical Cabinet.
C —Chemical Store Room.
D.—Chemical Lecture Room.
E.—Chemical Laboratory.
F.—Physical Cabinet.
G —Physical Laboratory.
H.—Physical Lecture Room.
I, J, K, L.—Professors’ Rooms
taught by lectures, and these are supplemented by practical work
in the various laboratories.
In Chemistry and Physics the necessary apparatus are at the dis-
66	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
posal of the student, and he is expected to verify, by observation
and experiment, what has not been experimentally illustrated in
the lectures he has attended.
In all these departments, as well as in those of Physics and
Chemistry, special stress will be laid on practical work, and a stu-
dent’s proficiency will be estimated by his record of observation
an^ experiment in the laboratory and workshop.
Ground-rLin ^ociciicu	x<'loor.
A, B, C, D, E, F.—Museum.	I.—Geological and Mineralogical
G.—Biological Laboratory.	Lecture Room.
H.—Biological Lecture Room.	J —Geological and Mineralogical
Laboratory.
In the study of Botany, Zoology, and Physiology, each student
is provided with a microscope and the necessary accessories, and
most of his time is spent in microscopic study, under the direction
of the professor.
In Geology and Mineralogy the system is the same. The stu-
Department of Microscopy —Biological Laboratory.
Physical
LABORATORY.
MISCELLANEOUS.	69
dent commences work in the laboratory at once, and thus early
becomes acquainted with the various minerals, rocks, fossils, etc.
The blowpipe, microscope, polariscope and clinometer are in con-
stant use to verify what has been learned in the lecture room, and
to fix it on the memory.
In the Department of Mechanical Engineering there are fully
equipped workshops, for wood and metals. Steam engines and
dynamo-electric generators, and motors of various types and sizes
furnish the power required, and afford the students special facilities
in making experiments concerning the various forms of energy.
A Photographic Laboratory is also fitted up in the building,
where the student is enabled to learn, practically and in a short
time, the art of modern Photography, and thus prepare himself
for professional work in the studio.
Rooms have likewise been set aside for Assaying and Metal-
lurgy, and it is the purpose of those in charge to leave nothing
undone to make the work in this department compare favorably
with that accomplished in the others.
Additions of apparatus, specimens, and books for reference are
constantly being made to the various departments, and no effort
will be spared to make “ Science Hall ” a recognized center of
thorough work in genuine practical science.
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre
Dame to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of
which is so necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German language—the classes of which are so numerously
attended—has been taught by five instructors during the past scho-
lastic year. The number of students attending the German classes
is becoming greater every year. The study of French is recom-
mended to all students of the Collegiate Course. The course of
Spanish will receive special attention in the future, and other
modern languages may be taught when required.
Telegraphy, and Type= Writing.
These branches invite the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. Both departments are fully equipped for
7o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
practical work. The Telegraphic Department is superintended
by a skillful electrician, and the classes are under the personal in-
struction of an experienced operator who has seen much actual
service and held responsible positions on railroad work.
In the Type-writing Department the machine in use is a first-
class Remington, with the latest improvements. Thorough
instruction is given in the manipulation and care of the machine,
in the correct forms of business letters, law work, essays, and gen-
eral writing.
(Phonography} or ShortsHand,
of which Dr. Johnson said “ its usefulness is not confined to any
particular science or profession,” is of incalculable benefit in the
higher branches of education, enabling its possessor to take ver-
batim notes of lectures, etc. It is adaptable to the English, French,
German, or Spanish languages. With a good English education
it is a profession in itself, and one not likely to be overcrowded
for years to come. First-class phonographers and type-writers are
always sure of employment, and pupils in both branches here find
every facility to fit them for the highest grades of practical work.
Phonography and Type-wrriting have of late come into gen-
eral use in legal and commercial work—in the court, the law office,
and the counting-room; in business houses, banks, insurance and
railroad offices,’ etc.,—and, for first-class stenographers especially,
the demand exceeds the supply. A knowledge of these useful arts
will therefore prove a strong recommendation for confidential and
lucrative positions.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame
in the facilities afforded to students for acquiring proficiency in
elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises are practical,
and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety. These exercises
are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is peculiarly adapted for the
purpose, being eligibly situated, large, and elegantly furnished.
The exercises constitute an important part in the studies of young
men who strive to cultivate, with success, literature, oratory and
MISCELLANEOUS.	71
the dramatic art. The approved methods of stimulating and de-
veloping the natural elocutionary powers are called into requisition
as occasion seems to warrant. To this end the drama receives
a due share of attention; from time to time an appropriate tragedy
or comedy is rendered by students, on the stage of the new
Music Hall, with all the customary accessories and appointments
used in connection with dramatic performances. Four public ex-
hibitions are given during the year, and public literary exercises
are held seven times during the same period. An oratorical con-
test is one of the notable features marking the close of the year.
For the purpose of encouraging and stimulating students to put
forth their best efforts, premiums and gold medals are offered to
those who most distinguish themselves. When all these things are
duly considered, there need be no hesitation in repeating that “no
educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame in the
facilities offered to students for acquiring proficiency in elocution.”
Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to prepare for the Medical profession will
find opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of Stu-
dies in this department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy, and
Surgery. As a preparatory Course, that which is given here,
under L. Neyron, M. D., a graduate of the Ecole de M^decine,
Lyons, leaves nothing to be desired.
(Drawing and (Painting,
The University, which is becoming every year more widely and
favorably known as an art center, enjoys ample facilities for im-
parting instruction in this branch. It possesses a large number of
models, a fine studio, and qualified and zealous teachers of the art.
The eminent artist Signor Luigi Gregori, of Rome, is still in
charge of this Department.
Music.
This Department is complete in all its appointments. It has
able Professors, and is divided into classes on the regular Conserv-
atory system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, with an excellent
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Quartette, and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments are some
| of the leading- features of the Instrumental Music Department.
j Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and which
j has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students during the
i	past few years, will receive even more careful attention in future,
j	and it is hoped that this branch will become every year more
| popular,
i
I	Reading-Rooms.
i
j The lower floor of the new Music Hall is divided into large and
i neatly furnished Reading Rooms for the benefit of the Senior and
Junior departments. These reading rooms are supplied with
books and periodicals from the library, and students have access to
them during- the hours of recreation.
The Lemonnier Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers ovei 25,000 volumes. A reading room has been opened
in connection with the Library, in which the leading periodicals
of Europe and America are to be found on file. The members of
the Library Association desire to give their Alma Mater a collec-
tion of books which can stand comparison with those possessed by
any other educational establishment of the United States; therefore
they call on the friends of the University to assist them by dona-
tions of books, pamphlets, periodicals and manuscripts. All con-
tributions should be addressed to the Librarian of the Lemonnier
Library, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Academy of Music. Dedicated June 21, 1884
1*—............. II	I ..............................         —............    I	' ■'—	'■	1
Minim Department.
T“70R the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen,
a there has been established a Department to which the most
scrupulous attention has always been paid by the College au-
thorities; it is known as the Minim Department, and has ever
been one of the greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as well
as to all persons visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an English education is here imparted, together with
a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French and German. Vocal
Music and Drawing form no extra charges. The pupils of this
Department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under, whose
maternal and tender care they pass nearly the entire day. During
the hours of recreation, and while in the refectory and dormitory,
they are under the charge of kind and efficient Prefects.
discipline.
The following is the order of the day: Rising, at half-past six;
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercise in the Campus; half-past seven, study; half-
past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to twelve,
toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-past one, study;
half-past three, recreation and lunch; half-past six, supper and rec-
reation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that
while the Minims devote never less than six hours a day to study,
they are never more than two hours in succession in the class-room.
The recreation and exercise in the fresh air, between each two
hours of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to
their classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the hours of
recreation, as well as in the class-room and study-hall. The pres-
ence, however, of the Prefects is far from being a restraint on the
amusements of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Prefects to
J	I
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	75
insist that their young charges shall always keep within the limits
of the strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take part in all
sports, organize games, and do everything in their power to foster
a love of healthful exercise. The play-ground consists of a fine
level, four-acre field, well supplied with turning-poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all other necessary gymnastic
apparatus. That the boys make good use of them can best be
seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably
attracts the notice of visitors.
Connected with the play-ground is a fine brick play-hall, 160
feet long, heated by steam. There the boys play in rainy or cold
weather. In this building is one of the finest hand-ball alleys at
Notre Dame. Adjoining the grounds is a large orchard to which
the Minims have access in proper season. They are allowed so
many privileges of a similar nature that, among the students of
the other departments, they are often pleasantly spoken of as the
“privileged class of the little college world.” The Sisters preside
at the toilet; they clean and mend the clothing, see to all the needs
and to the comfort and convenience of the Minims. Baths are
taken every Saturday. Underclothing is changed regularly twice a
week. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that
the clothing be suitable for the season. As the Sisters take entire
charge of all these details, boys six years of age are received.
They are separated from the larger Minims, and enjoy all desirable
privileges.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim^Department: that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to
supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Association,
which has been established with a view to give the pupils a start,
as early as possible, in Elocution. The Society is in charge of one
of the Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are held once
a week, after school hours. These meetings are a source of pleas-
ure as well as of profit. The members prepare original composi-
^6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
tions, deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only the
best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to mem-
bership. To encourage this young Literary Society a Gold Medal
is annually awarded at Commencement, for Elocution, to the most
deserving member.
General Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much milder
than that which is suited to students more advanced in age. Re-
course is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in charge
endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing
to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose conduct and
application to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads of
Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic, a paper pub-
lished weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name mentioned in
these rolls is found to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil,
as its non-ajjpearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, again, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to all whose deportment has been unexceptionable
during that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim
immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape his
conduct with a view to receiving an “Honor.” The greatest care
is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort is made to
foster respect and affection for parents, to whom they are expected
to write once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoytd by the Minims is their
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording ample
accommodation for over one hundred pupils, is devoted to their
use. It is four stories in height, ninety-five feet long and forty-
five wide; heated by steam, supplied throughout with the Edison
incandescent electric light, and provided with hot and cold
water. The ceilings in the Study Hall, Class Rooms, and
sleeping apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large
and numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The
Study Hall commands a charming view from each of its eleven
Study Haul.
78	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
large windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary, beautiful
pictures, choice plants and beautiful flower caskets, etc. Besides
the pleasure the Minims derive from studying in this bright, beau-
tiful hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by coming into contact
with such refining objects. Fronting the building is a handsome
park, which, with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers,
adds not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall as well as to
the happiness of the Minims.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and
others who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that, while the Minims have every possible advantage to aid
them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a most
happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom as they
would under the care of their mothers.
0 ■"
EXPENSES.
Entrance Fee, -	-	-	-	$ 5 00
BOARD, TUITION, etc., per Session of Five
Months, -	-	-	-	-	125 00
The only extra in this Department is Instrumental Music. The
chaige per session for Piano lessons, and the use of the Instrument,
is $12.50; the charge for Violin lessons, per session, is $6.25.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer Vacation Months
are charged, extra, $4.0
Each pupil on entering should have 6 shirts, 4 pairs of drawers,
6 night-shirts, 12 pocket handkerchiefs, 6 pairs of winter stockings,
6 pairs of summer stockings, 6 towels, 2 hats or caps, 2 pairs of
boots or shoes, 2 suits of clothes for winter, 2 suits for summer,
1 overcoat, combs, brushes, etc.
Catalogue of Students.
From September 1886, to June 1887.
Ackerman, W. H...............................Indiana.
Arado, Louis.................................Illinois.
Adelsperger, Edw R...........................Indiana.
Akin, W. B...................................Indiana.
Akin, J. M...................................Indiana.
Austin, W. H.................................Illinois.
Ashton, Frank J..............................Illinois.
Adams, Edw...................................Illinois.
Aubrey, William..............................Illinois.
Anderson, Robert A...........................Illinois.
Brown, John..................................Wisconsin.
’ Brown, Chas A...............................Minnesota.
Beckwith, Nicholas....................•......New Mexico.
Burke, James W...............................Colorado.
Burts, Isaac.................................Missouri.
Burns, James.................................Indiana.
Brannick, Edw J..............................Missouri.
Bruce, Guy...................................Wisconsin
Beaupre, Frank...............................Minnesota.
Bernhart, Frank..............................Indiana.
Brabrook, George.............................Illinois.
Burke, P. E................................. .Minnesota.
Becker, Bernard F............................Illinois.
Burnham, Bruce...............................Colorado.
Boettcher, Claude............................Colorado.
Bailey, W. W.................................Colorado.
Bowles, B. W.................................Colorado.
Bowles, C. V.................................Colorado.
Baca, Felix..................................Colorado.
Baca, Facunda................................Colorado.
Benner, Edwin G..............................Illinois.
Benner, Clarence F...........................Illinois.
Bush, Clarence A.............................Michigan.
Bolton, Leslie C.............................Iow*a.
Boland, Halsey...............................New York.
Bacigalupo, Lee..............................Tennessee.
Black, John S................................Illinois
Black, Walter L..............................Illinois
Byrne Edgar..................................Michigan.
Barret, Denis................................Wisconsin.
Burr, John B.................................Missouri.
Berry, J St. Elmo............................Colorado.
Becerra, Tiburtius...........................Mexico.
Blumenthal, Max..............................Illinois.
Bloomenhoff, Fred. M.........................Illinois.
Bingham. W. M................................Illinois.
Bronson, Ross................................Indiana.
8o	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bronson, Harry..............................Indiana.
Bodley, Earl................................Illinois
Britt, Ed. D................................Pennsylvania.
Bell, W.C...................................Ohio.'
Blessington, Ed J...........................Iowa.
Bunker, Irving..............................Missouri.
Brown John..................................Illinois.
Bachrach, Albert............................Illinois
Bachrach, Henry.............................Illinois.
Bachrach, Sampson...........................Illinois.
Badger J. Clyde.............................Nebraska.
Brownson, Philip VD.........................Michigan.
Bull, John..................................Missouri.
Boland, W. H................................Minnesota.
Boyd, Roy...................................Indiana.
Colina, Manuel..............................Mexico
Chaves, Solero.....................■........Mexico.
Clarke, Joseph..............................West Va.
Campbell, Stafford..........................Texas.
Campbell. Edgar.............................Texas.
Cleveland, Albert...........................Illinois
Crane, Martin...............................Michigan.
Connor, Charles Joseph......................Illinois.
Connor, Wm Thomas...........................Illinois.
Carney, Fred................................Wisconsin.
Cook, Elias.................................Indiana
Crotty, Fred H. P...........................Illinois.
Castleman, Walter S.........................Illinois.
Cohn, Arthur................................Ohio.
Clark, Byron F..............................Wisconsin.
Connors, James..............................Wisconsin,
Connors, Edward.............................Wisconsin.
Clifford, Wm S..............................Wisconsin.
Cavanagh, Charles S.........................Illinois.
Craig, George A.............................Illinois.
Casey, Irwin................................Wisconsin.
Cobbs, Frank................................Michigan.
Chute, Louis P..............................Minnesota.
Chute, Fred.................................Minnesota.
Coad, John F................................Nebra-ka.
Crowley, James G............................Missouri.
Crowley, ■ m. F.............................Missouri.
Cooney, James...............................Ohio,
Clendenin, Richard..........................Montana.
Cusack, Joseph A............................Nebraska.
Cartier, Warren.............................Michigan.
Cartier, George R.......................... Michigan.
Cartier, Deziere............................Michigan.
Curtis, William.............................Michigan.
Combe, Charles B............................Texas.
Combe, Frank B..............................Texas.
Crilly, George S............................Illinois.
Coady, Edward...............................Illinois.
Craft, Simon................................Minnesota.
Cooper, A. A................................Iowa.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
81
Cooke, George A.................................Illinois.
Cooke, John.....................................Illinois.
Cullen, James...................................Illinois.
Corbett, William................................Colorado.
Ciarcoschi, Salvatori...........................Illinois
Coman, Henry....................................Michigan.
Dunford, George............................
Dunford, Frank.............................
Dorsey, Hart W.......................
Dorsey, Sami. W......................
Dunning, Louis.......................
Dougherty, James.....................
Duffield, Alfred.....................
Duffield, Frank......................
Dungan, Paul.........................
Dungan, Jesse........................
Dungan, James........................
Devine, William P....................
Dore, Michael........................
Decker, Edward L.....................
Dempsey, Louis.......................
Dempsey, John........................
Deary, George F......................
Dahler, Charles............................
Doss, John E...................
Doss, Ernest J.................
Doss, Samuel L.................
Dillon, Edward F...........................
Dwyer, Daniel E ...........................
Devlin, Charles E..........................
Dreever, George F..........................
Draper, D. T...............................
Dempsey, John R............................
Dierdorff, Theodore........................
Darragh, Edw. J............................
Darragh, Thomas............................
Dickinson, J. B............................
Davidson, Frank D..........................
Duffin, Charles............................
Daniels, Alvin Bronson.....................
Washington Territory.
Washington Territory.
Iowa.	"
Iowa
Indiana
Tennessee.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Ohio
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Montana.
Missouri
Missouri.
Missouri.
Iowa.
Minnesota.
Pennsylvania.
Kansas.
Kansas.
Wisconsin
Indiana.
Minnesota.
Minnesota.
Wyoming.
Missouri.
Ohio.
Colorado.
Eyanson, Charles J..........................Indiana.
Eisenhauer, Andrew..........................Indiana.
Ewing, Edward Sorin.........................Ohio.
Eean, Elmer.................................Illinois.
O J
Ensor, A. W.............................  .Missouri.
Ewing, Claude...............................Ohio.
Esch, Henry.................................Minnesota.
Foote, Edward..................................Illinois.
’ Flynn, John C................................Minnesota.
Falter, M. Ulysses.............................Illinois.
Figge, Harry...................................Wisconsin.
Falvey, Thomas P...............................Kansas.
Faivey, Frank M.... ...........................Kansas.
Falvey, Edward B...............................Kansas.
82	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ford, Joseph................................Montana.
Fisher, John................................Missouri.
Fehr, Frank................................  Kentucky.
Flvnn, Frank P..............................Iowa.
Franche, Cyril..............................Illinois.
Franche, Gilbert............................Illinois.
Frain, KoderickJ............................Colorado.
Fitzharris, Arnold..........'...............Mexico.
Forbes, PTank...............................Montana.
Fry, George F...............................Colorado.
Freeman George..............................Minnesota.
Graham, Robert.......
Grant Charles V....
Gallardo, Jose S.....
Garber, Frank D ....
Garber, E ugene......
Galarneau, C. E......
Galarneau, A. B......
Goebel, T. A.........
Gale, Gardner........
Gordon, A. A.........
Gisseller, John......
Griffin, Oramel......
Gibbs, Andrew........
Greene, Virgil E....
Griffin, Thomas......
G re ver, Leonard....
Glenn, Eugene........
Goldman, Bruno,....
Girten, Michael......
Garrabrant, Robert..
Gray, John Francis ..
Heinemann, Herbert.
Huiskamp, Herman J
Huiskamp, John B...
Hull, Harry D.....
H nestis, Guy.....
Hindman, Frank M ..
Hanley, Francis...
Hagus, Joseph.....
Hebbard, George K ..
Houck, George A...
Hoffmann, Louis...
Henry Wm.J........
Houston, Harry D ...
Hinchman, Frank B.
Hart James........
Hiner, Edward W...
Hurd, Chas. A.....
Hake, Theodore....
Hake, Albert......
Hayes, John.......
Hampton, J. W.....
Wisconsin.
Illinois
Mexico.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Ohio
Ohio.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Michigan.
Iowa.
Idaho.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Minnesota.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Nebraska.
Ohio.
.. Illinois.
.. Iowa.
.. Iowa.
. .Illinois.
.. Indiana,
.. Indiana.
. . Indiana.
. . Colorado.
. . Illinois.
. . Oregon.
. .West Virginia.
.. Texas.
. . Louisiana.
. .Michigan.
.. Iowa.
. . Ohio.
.. Illinois.
..Michigan. '
.. Michigan.
. .Illinois.
.. Kentucky.

CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
ft
Hampton, J. M...............................Kentucky.
Henry, Wm. D...............................Ohio.
Hannin, Edward B............................Ohio
Hagerty, Clarence T.........................Indiana.
Haney, Oscar................................Louisiana.
Howard, Edward A............................Indiana
Hillas, Edward..............................Iowa
Hoye, Arthur................................Louisiana
Higgins, Emmett M...........................Indiana.
Howard, Frank...............................Illinois.
Higgins, Harry .............................Indiana.
Heller, Edw. Wilson........................Wisconsin.
Inks, Albert J..............................Indiana
Inderrieden, C. V.........................Illinois.
Inderrieden, Robert M.....................Illinois.
Jewett, Fred L...............................
Jewett, Harry M..............•...............
Jewett, Edward H.............................
Joyce, Andrew J..............................
Jacobs. Nicholas J...........................
Judie, James Albert..........................
Jordan, Thomas J.............................
Jeffs, William...............................
Jeffs, Edward................................
Julian. William A............................
Johns, Thomas................................
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
District of Columbia.
Wisconsin.
Indiana.
Kansas.
Michigan.
Michigan.
Texas.
Indiana.
Kleiber, John J................................Texas.
Keefe, Philo...................................Illinois.
Kendall, Sherman...............................Texas.
Kreutzer, F. X.................................Indiana.
Kerlin, Ed. J..................................Ohio.
Konzen, Frank..................................Indiana.
Konzen, William................................Indiana.
Koester, Charles H.............................Illinois
Kirwin, Thomas.................................Illinois.
Kern, William..................................Illinois.
Katz, Abraham..................................Illinois.
Keating, John H................................Iowa.
Kahn, Harry J..................................Colorado.
Kutsche, Aurthr................................Illinois.
Kutsche, Wilbur................................Illinois.
Kellner, Fritz.................................Kentucky.
Kane, J oseph..................................Il’inois.
Klaner, George.................................Illinois.
Kelly, John M..................................Minnesota.
Kraber, Louis..................................Illinois.
Kinsella, James Joseph.........................Iowa.
Kinsella, Harry Denis..........................Iowa.
Kinosnorth, Georsse............................Iowa,
o _______ <	o
Kramer, Frank..................................Indiana.
King, John A...................................Minnesota.
84
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4
Lewin, Matsey....
Langan, Joseph....
Langan, Harry B..
Lesh, Harry M.....
Lais, George..............
Lane, Robert S......
Leonard, Arthur E.
Larkin, Arthur.....
Luther, Minot.......
Lally, W D..........
Loewenstein, Moritz
Landen wich, George
Luhn, Win. L........
Long, Harry.........
Long, Ferdinand ...
Latshaw, Donald A.
Lane, Frank E......
, Illinois.
Iowa.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Ohio.
. Illinois
. Missouri.
Kansas.
Indiana
. Michigan.
Texas.
.Kentucky.
Washington Territory.
Missouri.
. Missouri.
Missouri.
. Kansas.
Morgenweck, August....
Morgen week, Charles .. ..
Mahon, Thomas........................
Mohun, Louis W............
Morrison, George D ....
Monarch, Lamar............
> Major, Ambrose..........
Marx, David J..........
Morgan, Henry..........
Martineau, Peter A.....
Mooney, Christopher....
Mooney, Herbert........
Murphy, W. J...........
Mallay, George W.......
Mallay, Howard C.......
Mulberger, Henry.......
Moffatt, Wm. E.........
Mainzer, F'elix L......
Mason, Albert........
Mayer, Adolph........
Mayer, Louis.......  ...
Mathewson, Edward W..
Macatee, Leonard.......
Myers, George W........
Martin, William........
Mulkern, Michael B.....
Mitchell, Charles......
Moncado, Jose..........
Munro, Roderick Erskine
Morrison, Vincent E....
Morrison, William J....
Mayer, George A. C.....
Meagher, John B........
Meagher, Louis E.......
Meehan, Augustus.......
Murnan, John...........
Murdock, Samuel........
Maier, August..........
7 o
Illinois.
Illinois.
Mississippi.
District of Columbia.
. Michigan.
Kentucky
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois,
Wisconsin.
. Illinois.
Illinois.
. Illinois.
Ohio.
Ohio.
Wisconsin.
Minnesota.
Minnesota.
Colorado.
Colorado.
. Colorado.
Wisconsin.
Texas.
Iowa.
. Louisiana.
, low’a.
Illinois.
Mexico.
New York.
. Iowa.
. Iowa.
Illinois.
Minnesota.
. Minnesota.
Kentucky.
. Michigan.
. Indiana.
Indiana.
CATATLOGUE OF STUDENTS.	85
Maguire, Augustine N.....................Illinois.
McKendry, Daniel.........................Indiana.
McDermott, T. G..........................Iowa.
McDonald, Frank E........................Nebraska.
McDermott, Jolin.............•...........Ohio.
McKlveen, Harry B........................Iowa.
McKenzie, Wm. S..........................Ohio.
McErlaine, F. E..........................Indiana.
McAllister, J............................Iowa.
McGinnis, Ralph..........................Ohio.
McCart, McGregor.........................Texas.
McGurk, John C...........................Ohio.
McIntosh, John...........................Nebraska.
McIntosh, James .........................Nebraska.
McGuire, Simon Joseph....................Illinois.
McMahon, John............................Illinois.
McFarland, Alvin.........................Colorado.
McPhee, William..........................Colorado.
McPhee, Charles..........................Colorado.
McCormick, John..........................Montana.
McCormick, William.......................Montana.
McDonnell, Wm. Sylvester.................Iowa.
McGinley, Albert S.......................Texas.
McNulty, Joseph.......................Illinois.
McGuire, W. P.........................Illinois.
McSweeney, Stephen.. . . .»...........Illinois.
McNamara, Wm.............................Kentucky.
McGuire, Vincent.........................Ohio.
McDonald, John A.........................Missouri.
McManus. Wm J............................Ohio.
McCambridge, John M......................Illinois.
McCabe, Fred.............................Michigan.
McKeon, Thomas Jacob.....................Dakota.
McNally, John...........................Wisconsin.
Noonan, Frank............................Illinois.
Noonan, Thomas J.........................Illinois.
Nations, Rudolph.........................Mexico.
Neil, C. P...............................Illinois.
Noud, T..................................Michigan.
Nussbaum, Samuel.........................Indiana.
Neff, Fleming A..........................Colorado.
Newton, Robert C.........................Arkansas.
Newell, Peter F..........................Wisconsin.
Nancolas, C. A...........................Iowa.
Nelson, P. A.............................Iowa.
Nester, John.............................Michigan.
Nester, Frank............................Michigan.
Nester, Arthur...........................Michigan.
Nathan, Isaac............................Colorado.
Nicholl, Alfred Grant....................Ohio.
Nicholl, Andrew Lawrence.................Ohio.
Ormond, John.............................Michigan.
O’Connor, Daniel F.......................Ohio.
O’Connor, Joseph A.......................Ohio.
86	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
O’Regan, Thomas...........................Minnesota.
O’Meara, John D...........................Indiana.
O’Brien, Wm. D............................Indiana.
O’Rourke, William..............,..........Ohio.
O’Donnell, James V........................Indiana.
O’Malley, James R.........................Wisconsin.
Oxnard, Richard...........................Pennsylvania.
O’Connell, Wm. K..........................Indiana.
O’Neill, James............................Connecticut.
O’Kane, Mortimer..........................Ohio.
O’Kane, James Byron.......................Ohio.
O’Kar’e, George F.........................Ohio.
O’Malley, Leslie..........................Iowa.
Orr, Louis................................Ohio.
O’Donnell, John P.........................Michigan.
O’Herron, Patrick.........................Indiana.
Padilla, Vincento............................Mexico.
Portillo, Jose...............................Mexico.
Prudhomme, P. P..............................Louisiana.
Prudhomme, J. L..............................Louisiana.
Pruchomme, E. C..............................Louisiana.
Paschel, Philip..............................Iowa.
Paul, Leon...................................Indiana.
Poole, Thomas................................Illinois.
Prichard, Henry..............................Kentucky.
Pfau, John...................................Indiana.
Preston, Augustus Louis......................Iowa.
Prior, Wm H..................................Illinois.
Pender, Thomas H.............................Ohio.
Power, Wil'iam...............................Michigan-
Priestly, Franks.............................Iowa.
Porter, Edward T.............................Wisconsin.
Pierce, Harry................................Illinois.
Quealy, James W....................................Indiana.
Quill, Denis.......................................Illinois.
Quill, Daniel......................................Illinois.
Quigley, Robert B..................................Ohio.
Quinlan, Michael...................................Illinois.
Ramirez, Rafael...........................Mexico.
Rodriguez, Felix M........................Mexico.
Redlich, Alexander........................Illinois.
Rheinberger, Charles......................Illinois.
Rogers, Forest............................Dakota.
Roper, Henry Claude.......................Indiana.
Riordan, John Leo.........................Michigan.
Rayner, Robert Lyle.......................Illinois.
Rothert, Hugo C.~.........................Indiana.
Rowsey, Wm. Alexander.....................Ohio.
Regan, Dominick...........................Texas.
Ramsey, Charles P.........................Indiana.
Rudd, Albert..............................Kentucky.
Rudd, James...............................Kentucky.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS,	87
Reynolds, Michael............................Wisconsin.
Rochford, Walter.............................Illinois.
Reilly, Thomas E.............................Missouri.
Ruger, Harry C...............................Indiana.
Ryan, Ethan..................................Kansas.
Rosenthal, Moses.............................Michigan.
Riedinger. Louis.............................Michigan.
Rea, Wallace.................................Illinois.
Robin, Burt..................................Michigan.
/	-O
Sweet, Paul.........
Sweet, George......
Stone, Lee..........
Suing, Frank........
Sullivan, W. E... .
Sullivan, Robert.. .
Sullivan, Owen W.
Sullivan, George H
Sullivan, Algernon
Sullivan, Joseph W
Sullivan, Frank L.
Stephens, D. J......
♦
Smith,
Smith,
Smith,
Smith,
Smith,
Edwin Earl
Lindsey L.
Frank L. ..
Harry L. ..
Fisher....
Smith, Frank D. . . .
Smith, Matthew N. .
Senn, Charles....
Stubbs, Charles J. . .
Steele, Charles..
Steele, Sherman....
Sproehnle, A ....
Savage, Edwin....
Spencer, Charles H.
Shields, Charles....
Stephens, Bert R. ..
Shannon, Frank. .. .
Soden, Frank.....
Slattmann Walter E
Schloss, Abe.....
Strasser, Dominick.
Stanton, John....
Silver, Harry....
St. Aubin, John....
Schantz, Frank L..
Colorado.
. Colorado.
.Texas.
Nebraska.
. Missouri.
.Missouri.
. Illinois.
. Minnesota.
. Montana.
.Michigan.
. Michigan.
.Missouri.
, Illinois.
.West Va.
. Colorado.
. M innesota.
.Colorado.
.Wisconsin.
. Wisconsin.
. Illinois.
.Texas.
. Ohio.
.Ohio.
.Illinois.
. Colorado.
. Indiana.
.Missouri.
. Ohio.
. Indiana.
. Missouri.
.Illinois.
. Colorado.
. Ohio.
. Illinois.
. Colorado.
.Minnesota.
.New York.
Taylor, Bayard...............................Michigan.
Triplett, Albert.............................Missouri.
Triplett, Baylor.........•...................Missouri.
Toolen,John F................................Illinois.
Toolen, Clarence A...........................Illinois.
Tewksbury, David.............................Utah.
Taliaferro, Frank............................Kentucky.
Tomkins, Thomas..............................Colorado.
88	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Taft, Charles...............................Colorado.
Tillenburg, Hugo............................Nebraska.
Tarrant, George.............................Wisconsin.
Tivnen, Bernard.............................Illinois.
Tedens, George W............................Illinois.
'	o
Velasco, Ramon..............................Mexico.
Vhay, Henry P...............................Michigan.
Voorhees, Curtis............................Indiana.
Vandercar, Wm T.............................Illinois.
Vandercar II. B.............................Illinois.
Witkow sky, Simon...........................Illinois.
Warner, James H.............................Tennessee.
Willbanks, Turner...........................Illinois.
White, Larkin...............................Kentucky.
West, Louis B...............................Iowa.
Wagoner, John C.............................Iowa.
Wagoner Philip,.............................Iowa.
Werst, H. J.................................Ohio.
Williams, W. E..............................Indiana.
Weadley, Joseph.............................Illinois.
Williamson, Wallace M.......................Kentucky
Weber, Francis J............................Iowa.
Walker, Harry E.............................Illinois.
Williamson, Albert..........................Missouri.
Williams, A. Sydney.........................Texas.
West, Caleb F...............................Utah.
Welch, Wm. A................................Iowa.
Walsh, Wm. D................................Illinois.
Weckler. Adam............................... Illinois.
Whelan, Joseph A............................Ohio.
White, Mathew M.............................Iowa.
Weldon, Richard............:................Ohio.
Waixel Isaac................................Illinois.
White, William..............................Illinois.
Wade, Thomas................................Ohio.
Woodbridge, Leverett........................Michigan.
Wilkin, Frank J.............................Michigan.
Wilson, John E..............................Wisconsin.
Weimer, Edward..............................Illinois-
Woodman. Lucius H...........................Michigan.
Wile, Frederick.............................Indiana.
White, Henry Ed.............................Ohio.
Wagman, Henry...............................Indiana.
Wood, William...............................Illinois.
Walsh, James J..............................Ireland.
Yetzer, John L..............................Iowa.
Zaehnle, Joseph...........................  Indiana.
Zeitler, Edward A...........................Indiana.
Ziemann, Hugo...............................Illinois.
Associated Alumni.
IS86-S7.
Rev. E. J. McLAUGHLIN, ’75, President.
Rev. L. J. EVERS, ’79, Vice-President.
WM. P. BREEN, ’77, 2D Vice-President.
Rev. N. J. STOFFEL, ’76, Secretary.
Prof. J. A. LYONS, ’62, Treasurer.
Prof. JOHN G. EWING, ’77, Historian.
WILLIAM H. JOHNSTON, ’85, Poet.
Rev. T. O’SULLIVAN, ’59, Orator.
Gellege Societies.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Blessed Virgin Mary.
This Confraternity, composed of the Catholic students of the
Senior department, has for its object the propagation of the Faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members. It was established
in 1845.
officers.
Both Sessions.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. N.J. Stoffel, C. S. C., Spiritual
Director.
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, President.
B.	T. Becker, Vice-President.
C. J. S ubbs, Rec. Secretary.
C. P. Neill, Cor. Secretary.
P. Burke, Treasurer.
T. H. McDermott, 1st Censor.
C. A Hagerty, 2d Censor.
LITERARY.
I
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851, (originally under
the name of the St. Aloysius Literary and Flistorical Society,) is
the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate
knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and debating
Society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in
writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. John I. Kleiber, Vice-President.
Prof. J. G. Ewing, President.	C. P. Neill, Secretary.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
91
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultivation
of Oratory, Elocution, and the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S.C., ) c ..
Rev.A. J. Morrissey, C.S.C., J
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
John I Kleiber, ist Vice-President.
B.	T. Becker, 2d Vice-President.
J. C. Wagoner, Rec. Secretary.
D. A. Latshaw, Cor. Secretary.
C.	J. Stubbs, Treasurer.
C. P. Neill, Historian.
J. E. Cusack, ist Censor.
M. Mulkern, 2d Censor.
C. B. Combe, Librarian.
R. Newton, Prompter.
S' econ d S ession.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S.C., ( Critics
Rev. A. J.Morrissey,C.S.C.. \	‘‘
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
S. T. Murdock, ist Vice-President.
B.	T. Becker, 2d Vice-President.
John I. Kleiber, Rec. Secretary.
C.	P. Neill, Cor. Secretary.
C. J. Stubbs, Treasurer.
D.	Latshaw, Historian.
J. Cusack, ist Censor.
M. Mulkern, 2d Censor.
C. Combe, Librarian.
G. Houck, Prompter.
8
I
I
Columbian Literary and Dramatic Society.	|
I
The Columbian Society was founded March the 25th, 1873, for |
the benefit of the Commercial students. Its object is the cultiva- |
tion of Elocution and Oratory.	■
OFFICERS.	<
First Session.	Second Session.	<
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. S.,	/ Critirs
Rev. A. J. Morrissey, C.S.C., j
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C.S.C., ) y, ,
t>	1 r- o	? Promoters.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C.,
W. D. Lally, ist Vice-President
F.	Jewett, 2d Vice-President.
A. Gordon, Jr., Treasurer.
L. C. Bolton, Rec. Secretary.
G.	S. Crilly, Cor Secretary.
C. Voorhees, Historian.
G. Houck, ist Censor.
P. Prudhomme, 2d Censor
J. V. O’Donnell, Serg’t-at-Arms.
A. Larkin, Librarian.
Rev T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. (. Regan, C.S.C., ) r .... „
Rev.A J. Morrissey,C.S.C., j 111CS’
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C.S C., ) y, ,
o t-» 1 r- e r-	S Promoters.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C.,	)
P. Brownson, ist ' ice President.
Geo. H Craig, 2d Vice-President.
A. Gordon, Jr , Treasurer.
P. E. Burke, Rec. Secretary.
T. O’Regan, Cor. Secretary.
G O’Kane, Historian.
L Bolton, ist Censor.
J. V. O’Donnell, 2d Censor.
Fohn B. Meagher, Serg’t at Arms.
H. Long, Librarian.
A. Finckh, Prompter.
F. Jewett, Marshal.
92	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Academy of St. Thomas Aquinas.
This Association was organized Nov. 4, 1882, for the purpose
of stimulating students to devote special attention to philosophical
studies. Monthly meetings are held, at which such philosophical
subjects as are most closely connected with the leading questions
of the day are discussed. The disputations are conducted strictly
according to the scholastic method.
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., ) T1	rv t
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., I Honorary Dnectors.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S- C., Promoter.
Rev. N. Stoffel, C. S. C., Assistant
Promoter.
Rev S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
B T. Becker, President.
John Kleiber, 1st Vice-President.
D. A. Latshaw, 2d Vice-President.
J. C. Wagoner, Treasurer.
Geo. II. Craig, Rec. Secretary.
C. I Stubbs, Cor. Secretary.
P. Brownson, 1st Censor.
C. A. Hagertv, 2d Censor.
Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union.
This Association is affiliated to the State and National Unions.
Since its establishment it has received the warmest encouragement
from the officers and faculty of the institution, whose constant effort
has been to increase the number of its members. During the past
year the members have numbered about one hundred and twenty-
five.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Conception.
This Confraternity is composed of the students of the Junior
department. It has for its object the propagation of the faith,
the practice of devotion to the Blessed Virgin Mary, and the culti-
vation of a religious spirit among its members.
OFFICERS.
Both Sessions.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spiritual
Director.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., President.
E. Darragh, 1st Vice-President.
E.	S. Ewing, 2d Vice-President.
Ferdinand Long, Rec. Secretary.
Louis P. Chute, Cor. Secretary.
T. A. Goebsl, Treasurer.
F.	Chute, 1st Censor.
Paul D. Sweet, 2d Censor.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
LITERARY.
St. Cecilia Philomathean Association.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at
the same time a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its
exercises include public reading, declamation, essays, debates,
dramatic exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—
the elite of the Junior department. Many of the plays acted upon
the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers
of its members, have been written expressly for them.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C.,
Perpetual Honorary Director.
Promoters
Critics.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Alexander, C. S.
Bro. Marcellinus,C.S.
Prof. A. J. Stace, )
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, )
E. Darragh, 1st Vice-President.
C. West, Jr. 2d Vice President.
T. Goebel, Rec. Secretary.
L. P. Chute, Treasurer.
R. Oxnard, Cor. Secretary.
P. Wagoner, Historian.
W. Henry, 1 st Censor.
L.	Preston, 2d Censor.
M.	Luther, Serg’t-at-Arms.
F. Long, 1 st Monitor.
E. Ewing, 2d Monitor.
L. Smith, Librarian.
C. Spencer, Marshal.
W. H. Austin, 1st Prompter.
J. Fisher, 2d Prompter.
W. McPhee, 1st Charges d’Affaires.
H. Vhay, 2d Charges-d’Affaires.
W. Clifford, Moderator.
G. Tarrant, Clerk of the Moot Court.
Secord Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Piof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., ) „
' Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C.,	P1 oino^ei s-
Prof. A. ). Stace, ) n . .
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, \ Cntlcs‘
E.	Darragh, 1st Vice-President.
T. Goebel, 2d Vice-1 resident.
F.	Long, Rec. Secretary.
L.	Chute, Treasurer.
M.	O’Kane, Cor. Secretary.
H. Vhay, Historian.
L. Preston, 1st Censor.
J. Hayes, 2d Censor.
W. Austin, Serg’t-at Arms.
W. Boland, Marshal.
W. McPhee, Librarian.
J. Fisher, 1st Monitor.
G. Meehan, 2d Monitor.
W. Welch, 1st Prompter.
W. Morrison, 2d Prompter.
C. Cavanaugh, 1st Charges-d’Affaires.
M Falter, 2d Charges-d’Affaires.
W. Clifford, Moderator.
St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
This society, whose object is the study of Elocution, English
Composition and Debate, was organized April 5, 1871.
94
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
W. McPhee, ist Vice President.
W. Vandercar, 2d Vice-President.
C. Senn, Rec. Secretary.
I. Bunker, Treasurer.
S. Nussbaum, Cor. Secretary.
A.	Redlich, ist Censor.
B.	O’Kane, 2d Censor.
F. Cobbs, Historian.
J. Henry, Serg’t at-Arms.
A. Hove Marshal.
J. McIntosh, 2st Costumer.
H. Walker, 2d Costumer.
J. Casey, ist Prompter.
J. Badger, 2d Prompter.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. A. Lyons, President.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Bro. Leander, C. S. C., Promoter.
E. Berry, ist Vice President.
M. McCart 2d Vice-President.
I.	Bunker, Treasurer.
J.	McIntosh, Rec. Secretary.
F. Cobbs, Cor. Secretary.
A.	Redlich, ist Censor.
B.	O’Kane, 2d Censor.
Wm. Konzen, Historian.
H.	Bronson, Serg’t-at-Arms.
E. Glenn, Marshal.
I.	Casey, ist Costumer.
J.	Henry, 2d Costumer.
L. Monarch, ist Prompter.
H. Walker, 2d Prompter.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
RELIGIOUS.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the Christian world to contribute their share
towards the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of
heathenism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggre-
gate is considerable, while thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
James Connors, Vice-President.
Francis Toolen, Secretary.
A. Nester, Treasurer.
Felix Mainzer, Censor.
Francis Falvey, Librarian.
George Sweet, ) stfJnd„rd Bearers
John O’Mara, j btandard-Beaieis.
James J. Walsh,
Edward Connors,
Monitors.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.	95
Guardian Ang-els of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded Sept. 29, 1874, by Very Rev. Edw.
Sorin, Superior General C. S. C. It is composed of the pupils
of the Minim Department, and has for its object the practice of
devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety
among its members, and to provide the church wit the servers
required at Mass, Vespers, and the other Church offices. In 1875
Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many special
Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX. of happy memory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C.S.C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant-
Director.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., President.
T. Fa vey, Promoter.
A. Sullivan, 1st Vice President.
D. Quill, 2d Vice-President.
L. Doss, Recording Secretary.
J. Sullivan, Corresponding Secretary.
O. Griffin, Treasurer.
H. Mooney, Librarian.
C.	Connor, 1st Censor.
J. Kane, 2d Censor.
A. Williamson, Standard-Bearer.
G. Franche, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Assistant
Director.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., President.
W. Rowsey, Promoter.
W. Martin, 1st Vice-President.
A. Nester, 2d Vice President.
W. Graham, Secretary.
G. Sweet, Corresponding Secretary.
J. O’Donnell, Treasurer.
F. Crotty, Librarian.
P. Keeffe, 1st Censor.
W. Connor, 2d Censor.
C. Franche, Sergeant-at-Arms.
FI on. Directors.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by the Rev. T. E. Walsh,
C. S. C., on Nov. 25th, 1877, is study of elocution, and the
cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwenger,
Bishop of Fort 'Vayne,
Very Rev. E. Sorin, Sup.-Gen’l of
the Congregation of Holy Cross,
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
C. H. Mooney, 1st Vice-President.
J. McIntosh, 2d Vice President.
F. Crotty, Secretary.
J. Riordan, Cor. Secretary.
R. Boyd, Treasurer.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., Gen. Critic.
C. H. Mooney, 1st Vice-President.
J. McIntosh, 2d Vice-President.
W. Rowsey, Secretary.
F. Cobbs, Cor. Secretary.
T. Riordan, Treasurer.
96	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
A. Sullivan, Marshal.
J. Connors, ist Monitor.	’
W. Martin, Librarian.
A. Nester, 2d Monitor.
F. Toolen, ist Censor.
J. O’Donnell, 2d Censor.
F.	Crotty, 3d Censor.
D. Quill, 4th Censor.
L. Black, Serg’t-at-Arms.
M. Loewenstein, Charge d’Affaires.
G.	Sweet, Standard-Bearer.
W. Williamson, Marshal.
C. Grant, ist Monitor.
R. Munro, Librarian.
A. Nester, 2d Monitor.
W. Martin, ist Censor.
J. Walsh, 2d Censor.
J. O’Mara, 3d Censor.
G. Jewett, 4th Censor.
L. Dempsey, Serg’t-at-Arms.
C. Koester, Charge-d’Affaires.
C. Boettcher, Standard-Bearer.
ATHLETIC.
The Hoynes Light Guards.
A few years since the State of Indiana supplied the University
with 100 stand of arms and necessary accoutrements, including
bayonets, scabbards, belts, cartridge-boxes, etc., for the use of
students who might wish to organize military companies. These
arms are breech-loaders (Sharp’s rifles), and from year to year
they are brought into requisition by students who voluntarily form
military organizations, and learn the maneuvers, manual of arms,
and all the ordinary evolutions of the United States Army, as
taught in Upton’s Tactics. During the last scholastic year two of
these organizations existed at Notre Dame, one composed of
Seniors and the other of Juniors. They were tastefully uniformed,
and the high degree of proficiency in the use of arms attained by
them was a subject of general remark and compliment. The
authorities of the University duly encourage such organizations
on account of the salutary physical exercise they afford, the respect
for wholesome discipline they tend to inculcate, and the manly
bearing they serve to promote. The officers during the past year
were as follows:
Prof. William Hoynes, Colonel.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Chaplain.
Geo. S. Crilly, Acting-Adjutant.
C.	J. Stubbs, Serg’t-Major.
Company A.
Company B.
J. E. Cusack, Captain.
G. S. Crilly, ist Lieut.
W. A. Cartier, 2d Lieut.
Commis-
sioned.
Geo. H. Craig, Captain.
L. Macatee, ist Lieut.
S. Campbell, 2d Lieut.
Commis-
sioned.
'COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
97
C. B, Combe, islt Sctg’t.d
J. V. O’Donnell, -2d
Serg’t.
W. Bingham, 3d Serg’t.
A. Meehan, ist Serg’t. )
M. O’Kane, 2d Serg’t.
L. Preston, 3d Serg’t.
A. S. Triplett, 4th Serg’t. ^Non Com- W. Welch, ist Corp’l.
P- P. Paschel, ist orp’l. । missioned. J. Inks, 2d Corp’l
” *	- ~	-	G. Cooke, 3d Corp’l.
J. McGurk,4th Corp’l.
Non-Commis-
sioned.
C. West, 3d Corp’l. >
'Geo. Meyers, 4th Corp’l. J
SORIN CADETS.
(Captains Cusack and Craig, Instructors.)
Noji-Commissioned Officers.
W. Rowsey, ist Sergeant.
F. Crotty, 2d Sergeant.
A. Williamson, 3d Sergeant.
W. Graham, 4th Sergeant.
C. Mooney, ist Corporal.
A. Nester, 2d Corporal.
W. Martin, 3d Corporal.
A. Sullivan, 4th Corporal.
Military medals were awarded to the best drilled privates as follows :
Company “A”—-Geo. Myers, Dubuque, Iowa; Company “B”—J. Fisher
Denver, Col. ; “Sorin Cadets”—L. D. Dempsey.
!
Lemonnier Boat Club.
OFFICERS.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. G. H. Craig, Rec. Secretary.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President. L. Bolton, Cor. Secretary.
B. T. Becker, Commodore and
Treasurer.
CREWS.
Minnehaha.
D.	A. Latshaw, Stroke.
E.	Byrne, No. 5.
F.	Fehr, No. 4.
L. Bolton, No. 3.
J. Wagoner, No. 2.
G.	Dreever, Bow.
J. V. O’Donnell, Capt., Coxswain.
Evangeline.
J. McKeon, Stioke.
B. T. Becker, No. 5.
J. McNally, No. 4.
G. Crilly, No. 3.
G. Houck, No. 2.
A. Gordon, Capt., Bow.
C. Neill, Coxswain.
9s	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
University Base-ball Association.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Emmanuel C. S. S„ ( Director,.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C.,	\
B. T. Becker, Secretary.
W. Cartier, Treasurer.
J. I. Kleiber, Field Reporter.
Joseph ECusack, ) c tailI^
Charles B. Combe, \
Second Session.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., ) TA.
t> i r' q r'' r Directors.
Bro. Paul, C. b. C.,	)
B. T. Becker, Secretary.
Geo. II. Craig', Treasurer.
J. I. Kleiber,. Field Reporter.
Joseph E. Cusack, Capt. University
Reds (Champions).
J. Nester, Capt. University Blues.
A. Cooper, Capt. Special Nine.
D. A. Latshaw, ) c
T 1	< Scorers.
J. Meagher, $
P. J. Nelson. ( Captains of Second
T. II. Pender, } Nines.
Jos. McNamara, ) Captains of Third
Matthew White, ) Nines.
145 members.
The Seniors’ Campus,
nn •*
St. Joseph’s Lake
Conferring of Degrees,
AWARDING OF HONORS, ETC.
Conferring of Degrees.
The (Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
John F. Fearnley, Notre Dame, Ind.
Neal H. Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.
Thomas Ewing Steele, Columbus, Ohio.
The Degree of Master of Arts in honorem was
conferred on
Wm. F. Carey, New York, N. Y.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on
Wm. H. Johnston, East Townsend, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
John I. Kleiber, Brownsville, Texas.
John C. Wagoner, Omaha, Neb.
Bernard T. Becker, Chicago, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Warren A. Cartier, Luddington, Mich.
Hugo C. Rothert, Huntingburg, Ind.
Wm. K. O’Connell, Kokomo, Ind.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.	103
The (Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred, on
John Coleman, Carlisle, New Mexico.
Hugo C. Rothert, Huntingburg, Ind.
Warren A. Cartier, Luddington, Mich.
The (Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Michael A. Hartigan, Plattsmouth, Neb.
Bernard T. Becker, Chicago, Ill.
Chas. A. Rheinberger, Nauvoo, Ill.
James A. Judie, South Bend, Ind.
Commercial Graduates.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Albert Adams, Chicago, Ill.
William E. Sullivan, Kansas City, Mo.
Fr. X. Kreutzer, Peru, Ind.
Vincent Padilla, Lagos, Mexico.
Leon A. Grever, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Thomas Jordan, Leavenworth, Kansas.
George F. O’Kane, Cincinnati, Ohio.
John W. Hayes, Rockford, Ill.
Dav. Tewksbury, Park City, Utah.
William E. Konzen, South Bend, Ind.
ic>4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Frank P. Konzen, South Bend, Ind.
Frank D. Smith, Watertown, Wis.
Edmund Coady, Pana, Ill.
William E. Moffatt, Stillwater, Minn.
William S. Clifford, Stevens Point, Wis.
Wm. L. Luhn, Fort Spokane, Wash. Ter.
Daniel J. McKendry, Fort Wayne, Ind.
George J. Cooke, Chicago, Ill.
George S. Crilly, Chicago, Ill.
James C. Rudd, Owensboro, Ky.
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to
Warren A. Cartier, Luddington, Mich.
Edward Prudhomme, Bermuda, La.
Felix Rodriguez, Guanajuato, Mexico.
Geo. Tedens, Lamont, Ill.
SPECIAL PRIZE MEDALS.	105
THE GOLD MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS,
Presented by Mrs. Mary P. Pnglish, of Columbus, Ohio, was awarded to
Donald A. Latshaw,
Kansas City, Mo.
THE MEEHAN GOLD MEDAL,
Presented by Mrs. James Meehan, of Covington, Ky., to the candidate for
Honors" in the Junior Department pronounced most -worthy by the
votes of Faculty and Students, was awarded to
Tiburtius A. Goebel,
Mar'etta, Ohio.
THE MASON GOLD MEDAL,
Presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, III., to the student having the
best Record in the Junior Department, was awarded to
Morris Ulysses Falter,
Chicago, III.
io6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Class Prize Medals
[No Class Medal in any course is awarded unless an average of at least
85 per cent for all the classes of the course, as determined by the monthly
written examinations, has been reached.]
CLASSICAL COURSE
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class and the Gold Medal
in the Junior Class were not awarded.
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore Class was awarded to
Tiburtius A. Goebel, of Marietta, Ohio.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to
Morris Ulysses Falter, of Chicago, Ill.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to Edward
Sorin Ewing, of Lancaster, Ohio.
The Gold Medal in the Sophomore Class was not awarded.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to
William P. McPhee, of Denver, Col.
COMMERCIAL COURSE
The Gold Medal in the Commercial Course was awarded to :
William S. Clifford, of Stevens Point, Wis. (Closely con- j
tested by Vincent Padilla, of Lagos, Mexico.)	5
The Gold Medal for Proficiency in Penmanship — presented by ;
Rev. P. Boland, of Litchfield, Minn.—was awarded to Felix ■
Rodriquez, of Guanajuato, Mexico.	;
SPECIAL COURSES
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (presented by I
Rt. Rev. Bishop Dwenger, of Fort Wayne,) was awarded to I
Charles P. Neill, of Austin, Texas.	I
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.	107
The Sorin Medal for Christian Doctrine (presented by the Very
Rev. E. Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the
Holy Cross,) was awarded to Arthur Larkin, of Ellsworth, Kan.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, (presented by Mr.
D. D. Myers, Dubuque, Iowa,) was awarded to Ferdinand E.
Long, of Kansas City, Mo.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (presented by
Hon. P. T. Barry of Englewood, Hl.,) was awarded to Tuomas
O’Regan, St. t Paul, Minn	.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory (presented by Wm. P.
Breen, Esq., (’77), of Fort Wayne, Ind.,) was awarded to Philip
VanDyke Brownson, of Detroit, Mich.
The Livingston Gold Medal for Elocution (presented by Mr.
Moses Livingston, of South Bend, Ind.,) was awarded to Charles
J. Stubbs, of Galveston, Texas.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music (presented by Mr. James
O’Neill, of New York, N. Y.,) was awarded to George F.
O’Kane, of Cincinnati, Ohio.
The McPhee Prizes in the Course of Elementary Science
(presented by Mr. C. D. McPhee, of Denver, Col.,) were awarded
to Daniel McKendry, of Fort Wayne, Ind., Harry Jewett,
of Chicago, Ill., Facundo Baca, of Trinidad, Col, and Wm.
H. Austin, of Chicago, Ill.
The $50 Cash Prize for the best essay on “Temperance” (pre-
sented by the Philadelphia Total Abstinence Society) was awarded
to James A. Burns, of Michigan City, Ind.
Special Medals in the Minim Department.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal (presented by the Very Rev.
Edward Sorin, Superior-General of the Congregation of the Holy
Cross,) was awarded to Christopher H. Mooney, Chicago,.Ill.
The Gold Medal of the Sorin Association was awarded to
James J. McIntosh, of Sidney, Neb.
The Gold Medal for General Excellence in Class work and I
deportment (presented by Mr. James O’Neill, of New York city, I
N. Y.,) was awarded to William O. Martin, of Red River j
Landing, La.	1
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Frederick ।
P. Crotty, of Rockford, Ill.
10S	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Awarding of Honors.
[The “ First Honor ” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have followed
the courses of the University at least four Sessions, and whose deportment
during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
F rancis J. Ashton, Rockford, Ill.
AVm. Aubrey, Washington, Ill.
Andrew P. Gibbs, Lamotte, Ill.
Clarence A. Hagerty, La Porte,
Ind.
George W. Myers, Dubuque,
Iowa.
Wm. F. O’Rourke, Middle-
town, Ohio.
P. Phanor Prudhomme, Ber-
muda, La.
Philip Paschel, Council Bluffs, la.
Walter J. Rochford, Galena, Ill.
Matthew W. White, South
Amana, Iowa.
George A. Houck, Monroe, Or.
Dennis Barrett, Janesville, Wis.
Simon Craft, Waseca, Minn.
Felix Baca, Trinidad, Col.
Michael B. Mulkern, Dubuque, la.
Hugo Rothert, Huntingburg,Ind.
John Wagoner, Omaha, Neb.
Vincent Padilla, Lagos, Mexico.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
Wm. P. McPhee, Denver, Col.
Augustus Meehan, Covington,
Ky.
Matthew Smith, Watertown,
Wis.
Ferdinand E. Long, Kansas
City, Mo.
Tiburtius A. Goebel, Marietta,
Ohio.
E. R. Adelsperger, South Bend,
Ind.
L. P. Chute, Minneapolis, Minn.
Frederick Chute, Minneapolis,
Minn.
Wm. Konzen, South Bend, Ind.
Francis Konzen, South Bend, Ind.
Theodore Hake, Grand Rapids,
Mich.
Albert Hake, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Arnold Fitzharris, Buena Vista,
Mexico.	■
Paul D. Sweet, Denver, Col.
Augustus L. Preston, Minneapolis,
Minn.
AWARDING OF HONORS.	109-
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
First Honors were awarded to
JamesJ. McIntosh, Sidney,Neb. Wm. O. Martin,. Red River
Leo J. Riordan, Muskegon, Mich. Landing, La.
James Conners, Janesville, Wis.
C. H. Mooney, Chicago, Ill.
Leslie S. Doss, Trinidad, Col.
Thomas P. Falvey, Wichita,
Kansas.
Edward Conners, Janesville,
Wis.
Edward Jewett, Chicago, Ill.
Albert Williamson,Kansas Citv,
Mo.	'
Robt. E. Graham, Milwaukee,
Wis.
Roderick E. Munro, Brooklyn,
N. Y.	‘
Algernon S. Sullivan, Helena,
Montana.
Daniel Quill, Chicago, Ill.
Arthur Nesterr Marquette, Mich.
Frederick P. Crotty, Rockford,
Ill.	(
[The u Second Honor ” is a Silver Medal, awarded- to- those students who
have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions, and whose-
deportment during that time has given general satisfaction..]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
iSecond Honors were awarded to
George Dreever, Janesville, Albert S.. Triplett, Fort Worthy
Minn.	Texas.
Vincent E. Morrison, Fort James O’Malley, Madison, Wis.
Madison, Iowa.	Felix Rodriquez, Guanajuato-,
Mexico.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors were awarded to
Wm. P. Devine, Chicago, Ill.
Nicholas Jacobs, Stevens Point,
Wis.
Wm. Kern, Chicago, Ill.
Wm. H.. Austin, Chicago, Ill.
George Landenwich, Louisville,
IIO	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Second Honors
George E. Sweet, Denver, Col.
Edward P. Falvey, Wichita,
Kan.
Philo A. Keefe, Chicago, Ill.
were awarded to
Oramel Griffin, Union City, Mich.
Lee R. Stone, Galveston, Tex.
Felix R. Mainzer, St. Paul, Minn.
George Klaner, Chicago, Ill.

Certificates.
[Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the courses
of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment during the
whole time has been unexceptionable.]
P. Burke,
A. M. Finckh,
J. A. Judie,
H L. Prichard,
SENIOR
C. Bush,
J. Ford,
F. X. Kreutzer,
F. J. Suing,
DEPARTMENT.
M. Dore,
T. F. Griffin,
T. G. McDermott,
J. C. Langan,
C. J. Eyanson,
S. Hummer,
T. P. O’Regan,
J. McDermott.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
R. Bronson,
H. Boland,
W; S. Clifford,
J. Dempsey,
P. Houlihan,
F. Lane,
J. H. Keating,
McGregor McCart,
J. D. Stephens,
T. A. Willbanks,
H. Bronson,
J. Clarke,
I. T. Casey,
M. Falter,
E. Hannin,
H. Walker,
L. Monarch
L. Macatee,
F. Smith,
L. White.
E. Blessington,
F. W. Carney,
J. J. Cooney“
F. Flynn,
J. M. Hampton,
W. Julian,
W. S. McKenzie,
W. O’Brien,
F. Taliaferro,
W. PI Boland,
C. T. Cavanagh,
G. Cooke,
E. A. Glenn,
A. J. Inks,
A. O. Kutsche,
D. Kendry,
J. Pfau,
H. P. Vhav,
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
C. Boettcher,
M. Blumenthal,
R. C. Clendenin,
W. T. Connor,
G. C. Franche,
H. J. Huiskamp,
J. J. Kane,
M. Loewenstein,
A. G. Mayer,
C. A. McPhee,
C. M. Priestly,
E. J. Savage,
W. Williamson,
F. M. Bloom huff,
A. Bachrach,
E. W. Cooke,
J. Dungan,
C. E. Franche,
J. Huiskamp.
T. F. Kerwin,
R. S. Lane,
G. A. C. Mayer,
W. S. McDonnell,
W. Rowsey,
T. H. Tomkins,
A. J. Weckler.
R. J. Boyd,
H. Bachrach,
A. Cohn,
L. C. Dempsev,
E. F. Foote,
J. Hagus,
W. Kutsche,
M. Lewin,
T. F. Mahon,
T. D. O’Mara,
F. J. Rogers,
J. M. Triplett,
L. Black,
S. C. Bachrach,
C. J. Connor,
J. J. Dempsey,
C. V. Grant, "
E. Hillas,
L. Kraber,
H. V. Mooney,
A.Morgenweck
J. O’Neill,
F. S. Smith,
C. O. Taft,
PREMIUMS.
[The students named in the following lists received “Class Premiums” and
“ Honorable Mentions,” of which a detailed report appeared in the Scholastic
of June 22.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
F. Ashton, L. Arado, AV. Aubrey, M. Akin, AV. Akin, L. Bolton, P. VD.
Brownson, C. Brown, J. Burke, P. Burke, E. Byrne, F. Baca, D. Barrett,
F. Bernhart, H. Barnes, T. Becerra, C. Bush, J. Burns, AV. Cartier, A. Cooper,
G. Craig, J. Cusack, C. Combe, S. Craft, AV. Crowley, M. Cassidy, G. Cartier,
C. Duffin, A. Duffield, D. Dwyer, G. Dreever, M. Dore, C. Eyanson, J. Ford,
A. Finckh, J. Gallardo, A. Gordon, A. Gibbs, T. Griffin, L. Grever, S. Hum-
mer, C. Hagerty, G. Houck, T. Jordan, F. Jewett, J. Lyons, A Leonard, A.
Larkin, W. Luhn, F. Kreutzer, J. Kleiber, G. Kingsnorth, F Kramer, John
Ley, J. Langan, P. Martineau, AV. Moffatt, M. Mulkern, A’. Morrison, AV. Mc-
Namara, S. Dorsey, AV. McKeon, J. McDermott, T. McDermott, A. Major
D. Marx, J. Meagher, G. Myers, J. McNally, T. Noonan, C. Neill, Andrew
Nicholl, Alfred Nicholl, W. O’Rourke, T. O’Regan, G. O’Kane, J. O’Malley,
L. Orr, J. O’Donnell, AC Padilla, P. Prudhomme, E. Prudhomme, P. Paschel,
T. Poole, F. Prichard, T. Pender, E. Porter, R. Quigley, D. Quill, C. Rhein-
berger, B. Rohin, H. Rothert, F. Rodriguez, J. Rudd, A. Rudd, E. Ryan,
F. Suing, AV. Sullivan, O. Sullivan, C. Shields, C. Stubbs, F. Smith, J. Triplett,
R. Afelasco, J. Wilson AVm. AVhite F. AVeber, J. Wagoner, I. AA^aixel, C. AVest,
E. Coady.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Adelsperger, AV. Austin, E. Adams, R. Anderson, R. Bronson, EI. Bronson,
E. Blessington, E. Bodley, C. Badger, I. Bunker, J. Bull, AV. Boland, F. Ben-
ner, H. Boland, E. Burns, J. Black, E. Berry, G. Bruce, E. Brannick, F. Baca,
S. Campbell, E. Campbell, J. Clarke, F. Carney, C. Cavanagh, AV. S. Clifford,
B. Clarke, L. Chute, F. Chute, W. Curtis, J. Casey, G. Cooke, J. Cooke, S.
Ciarcoschi, H. Coman, J. Cooney, F. Coad, F. Cobbs, F. Duffield, AV. Devine,
L. Denning, E. Doss, D. Draper, J. Dempsey, F. Dunford, T. Darragh, E. Ew-
ing, S. Fitzharris, M. Falter, H. Figge, T. Flood, J. Fisher, F. Flynn, G. Free-
man, A. Gallarneau, T. Goebel, F. Garber, E. Glenn, M. Girten, L. Hoffman
112
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
P. Houlihan, J. Hart, T. Hake, A. Hake, J. Henry, E. Hannin, A. Daniels,
J. Hayes, J. Hampton, A. Hoye, H. Higgins, G. Huestis, G. Hubbard, B. Inks,
H. Jewett, A. Joyce, M. Jacobs, W. Julian, T. Johns, F. Konzen, W. Konzen,
W. Kern, F. Kellner, A. Kutsche, J. Keating, J. King, G. Landenwich, F.
Long, II. Lane, D. McKendry, W. Morrison, A. Meehan, C. Mitchell, A. Mc-
Guire, J. McCambridge, J, McCabe, II. Mallay, L. Monarch, AV. McKenzie,
M. McCart, E. Mathewson, J. McCormick, AV. McCormick, J. McGurk, J.
McIntosh, L. Macatee, W. McPhee, H. Mulberger, J. Moncada, J. McNulty,
R. Nations, T. Noud, S. Nussbaum, J. O’Connor, J. Ormond, AV. O’ Brien,
M. O’Kane, B. O’Kane, J. O’Shea, P. O’llearn, J. Pfau, C. Paquette, L. Pres-
ton, J. Quealy, A. Redlich, C. Ramsey, L. Riedinger, W. Rea, P. Sweet, C.
Steele, D. Stephens, B. Stephens, F. Smith. M. Smith, A. Schloss, R. Sulli-
van, F. Taliaferro, G. Tarrant, B. Tivnen, G. Tedens, II. Vhay, J. Warner, T.
Wilbanks, L. White, II. White, P. Wagoner, II. Walker, Sv. Welch, W.
Walsh, R. Weldon, H. AV ageman, F. Wilkin, F. Weimer, F. Wile, R. Inder-
rieden.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
W. Ackerman, C. Boettcher, F. Bloomhuff, M. Blumenthal, R. Boyd, L.
Black, A Bachrach, H. Bachrach, S. Bachrach, F. Crotty, R. Clendenin, E.
Cooke, A. Cohn, C. Connor. W. Connor, AV. Corbett, J. Conners, E. Conners,
L. Doss, C. Dahler, James Dungan, Jesse Dungan, F. Davidson, L. Dempsey,
J. Dempsey, C. Franche, G. Franche, E. Foote, T. Falvey, F. Falvey, E. Fal-
vey, R. Graham, R. Garrabrant, G. Gale, O. Griffin, C. Grant, B. Goldmann,
E. Garber, J. Huiskamp, II. Iluiskamp, O. Haney, J. Hagus, E. Hillas, E.
Jewett, C. Koester, W. Kutsche, P. Keefe, J. Kane, T. Kerwin, G. Klaner, H.
Kinsella, L. Kraber, M. Loewenstein, R. Lane, C. Mooney, H. Mooney, W.
Martin, A. Maver, L. Maver, G. Maver, R. Munro, F. Mainzer, A. Mason, A.
Morgenweck, T. Mahon, C. McPhee, N. Maguire, J. McIntosh, W. McDon-
nell, A. Nester, J. O’Mara, J. O’Donnell, J. O’Neill, C. Priestly, L. Paul, D.
Quill, L. Riordan, W. Rowsey, F. Rogers, H. Silver,. F. Smith, A. Sullivan,
L. Stone, J. Sullivan, F. Sullivan, G. Sweet, E. Savage, Francis Toolen, Fred.
Toolen, T. Tomkins, B. Triplett, A. Williamson, AV. Williamson, J. J. AAralsh,
S. Witkowsky, A. Weckler, II. Zieman. '
FORTY-THIRD ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
OF THE
©ni&osify of ^of^ ®nnu>
PROGRAMME.
•	Sunday Evening, June 19, 1887.
1	*
] Exercises by the Euglossian Association and the St.
:	Cecilia Quartette Club.
Monday Evening, June 20.
;	4.45,	. Distribution of Premiums in the Minim Department
J	ORATORICAL CONTEST
J	Pot-Pourri—From il II Trovatore.”— Verdi, University Orchestra
Oration, “The Christianizing of Britain,” Philip VD. Brownson
j	Duet,—“Summer Voices,”—Abt.,
s	William P. Devine, Mortimer E. O’Kane
Oration, ■“ The American Citizen,” . Samuel T. Murdock
Piano Solo—“ Cascade.”—Paur, . . Samuel Nussbaum
Oration, “ Abraham Lincoln,” .	. Thomas O’Regan
“ Good Night—Farewell!”—Kimchen, . University Orchestra
Oration, “ Heroism,” .	.	. Charles J. Stubbs
Duet—“Leaving, not Loving.”—Theo. Marzialo,
J	William P. Devine, Louis W. Orr
। Oration, “John Henry, Cardinal Newman,” Donald A. Latshaw
I Male Quartette—“ Legend on the Rhine,”
(	Tenors—A. McFarland, F. Jewett ;
Baritone—P. Paschel; Basso—G. O’Kane
114	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Tuesday, June 21.
8.00 A. M.,	.	.	.	Alumni Mass
9.30	“	.	. Dress Parade — Light Guards
10.30 “	....	Regatta
11.30 “	.	.	.	. Alumni Meeting
2.00 P. M.,	.... Field Sports
4.45	“	. Distribution of Premiums in the Junior and
Senior Departments.
7-30	“ ALUMNI ORATION—“ The Church and Civilization,”
Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan,
(Class of ’58.)
Gavotte.— Czibulka,	.	. University Orchestra
Oration of the Day,
RIGHT rev: RICHARD GILMOUR, D. D.,
Bishop op Cleveland.
Wednesday, June 22.
Duet for Two Pianos, . Messrs. H. Tivnen, S. Nussbaum,
J. Keating, M. O’Kane
Master’s Oration, 0	.	.	. W. H. Johnston
Mixed Quartette—“ Oh, Fly with Me ! ”	•
Wm. P. Devine, M. E. O’Kane,
A. McFarland, B. G. O’Kane
Valedictory, .... John I. Kleiber
Awarding o^Honors, Conferring of Degrees, etc.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
is the title of a neat 16-page paper, devoted to the interests of
the students, which is published at the University every week
during Term time. This journal opens a field for young writers,
who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their
talents to remain inactive.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive and literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry, Notes
on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notices of New publica-
*
tions, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has a local
importance for students, their parents, and all who have attended
class at the University in times past, on account of the weekly	k
summary of events transpiring at Notre Dame, personal notices of 5 !
former students, Rolls of Honor, Class Honors, Lists of Excellence,	|
etc., which appear in its columns every week. Reports relative to	|
the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and fl
energetic students, etc., also find a place in this paper, and keep
parents and others informed on all that concerns their children and |
friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors, during the coming year, ij
to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past, and the j
encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.	I |
$1,50 PER ANNUM, Postpaid,
Address, THE " NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY.
One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.
AfOW entering upon its 31st year of active educational work,
kN St. Mary’s Academy for Young Ladies has earned the
reputation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and
successful institutions in the United States. The location is on
the dividing ridge of the St. Lawrence and Mississippi river
systems, in the highest and healthiest part of the State.
The Academy buildings—large, well ventilated and commodious,
heated with steam, supplied with hot and cold water, and with
fire-escapes of the latest and best kind—are beautifully situated on
an eminence overlooking the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph
River.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical educa-
tion are taught by a Faculty of competent teachers, forty-two in
number. French and German, Plain Sewing, and every variety
of Fancy Needlework are taught without extra charge. Book-
Keeping in the regular course; Phonography and Type-Writing
extra.
The Conservatory of Music
is conducted on the plan of the best classical Conservatories of
Europe. Three instrumental lessons and one in theory, with five
in general singing class, weekly, are included in the regular pension;
extra practice, 'pro rata.
The Art Department
is modelled after the best Art Schools of Europe. In the schools
of Painting and Music, pupils may pursue a special course.
Preparatory and Minim Departments.
Pupils who need primary training, and those of tender age, are
here carefully prepared for the Academic courses.
For Catalogue, containing full information, address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
&
Index.
Board of Trustees, .
Officers of the University,
F acuity, .	.
Prospectus, .	.
Expenses, .	.
Page.
2
3
8
18
Programme of Studies:
Preparatory Department, ......	19
Collegiate Department, Classical Course, .	.	.	.26
Scientific Course, .......	33
Special English Course, .	.	.	.	.	.40
Law Course, .......	47
Civil Engineering,	......	52
Mechanical Engineering,	.....	52
Commercial Course,	.......	35
•Modern Languages, .	.	.	.	.	.	-57
Miscellaneous,	.......	63
Minim Department:
Prospectus, ........	75
Expenses, ........	78
Catalogue of Students, .......	79
Associated Alumni, .......	89
College Societies, ........	90
Conferring of Degrees,	.......	102
Special Prize Medals,	....... 105
Class Prize Medals,	.......	106
Awarding of Honors, .......	108
Certificates, ........ no
Premiums, .	.	.	.	.	.	.	.	.111
Programme of the Forty-Third Annual Commencement Exercises, . 113
Ielustrations :
Bird’s-eye View, .......	1
Notre Dame, (Main Building),	.	.	.	.	-9
Science Hall,	.......	62
Biological Laboratory, .	.	.	.	.	.	.67
Physical Laboratory ......	68
Academy of Music,.	.......	73
St. Edward’s Hall, .......	74
Study Hall (Minims’),	.......	77
The Seniors’ Campus,	......	99
St. Joseph’s Lake,	.......	100