FORTY-FIFTH
Annual Catalogue
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY; AND STUDENTS

OF THE
r
p
amt
Annual Commencement
THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 1889.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA:
SCHOLASTIC PBBSS.
FORTY-FIFTH
Annual Catalogue
OF THE
OFFICERS, FACULTY, AND STUDENTS
OF THE
For the Academic Year 1888-89.
Annual Commeneemsnt,
THURSDAY, JUNE 20, 1889.
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA:
SCHOLASTIC PRHSS.
1889.
Board of Trustees.
VERY REV. EDWARD SORIN, C. S. C.,
President.
REV. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Vice - President.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S C.,
Chancellor.
VERY REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
BRO. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
Officers of the d diversity.
REV. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Vice - President.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Director of Studies.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
• Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. ALEXIS GRANGER, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Bro. PAUL HERMIT, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
/Assistant prefects of Discipline.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C., Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,	Bro. GREGORY, C. S. C.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT. .
Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C., Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.,
Bro. ALBIUS, C. S. C., Bro. FELIX, C. S. C.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C., Bro. ANGELUS, C. S. C.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D., Physician.
Faculty.
Rev. THOMAS E. WALSH, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Christianity.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literattire.
Rev. JOHN A. O’CONNELL, C. S. C.,
Literary Criticism.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. A. M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences, and Assistant Curator of the Museum.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. JAMES FRENCH, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. NICHOLAS WARKEN, C. S. C.,
German Language and Literature.
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ARTHUR J. STACE, A. M., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering-.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History, and Librarian of the Lemonnier Library.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. B.,
La-tv.
ALBERT F. ZAHM, A. M., M.E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
Mathematics, and Lecturer on Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S.,
Mathematics.
JOHN F. FEARNLEY, A. M.,
-Rhetoric and Languages.
MAURICE F. EGAN, A. M., LL. D.,
English Literature.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
Anatomy and Physiology.
WALTER C. LYMAN,
Elocution.
' NEAL H. EWING,’ A. M., '
Mathematics and Languages.
FACULTY.	7
Assistant Professors.
Mr. JOSEPH KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences.	*
Mr. EDWARD MURPHY/ C. S. C.}
English and Mathematics.
Mr. W. MALONEY, C. S. C.,
English.
Bro. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
Booh - Keeping.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy.
Bro. SEVERIN, C. S. C.,
German.
8	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bro. ANDREW, C. S. C.,
French.
<
MICHAEL O’DEA, M. S.,
Telegraphy and Type Writing.
E. M. GALLAGHER, A. B.,
English and Mathematics.
THOMAS FLOOD,
Phonography.
Teachers ir\ Preparatory Department.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C.S.C.,	Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S.
Bro. SIMEON, C. S. C.,	Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.,	Bro. ALBIUS, C. S. C.,
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.,	Bro. FELIX, C. S. C.
Department of pine At*ts.
MUSIC.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Piano, Quit ar, Cornet, and Flute.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Violin and Clarionet.
Bro. GIRARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano, Violin, and Director of the Orchestra.
FREDERICK J. LISCOMBE,
Vocal Music.
PAINTING. AND DRAWING.
Signor LUIGI GREGORI,
Historical Painting.
J. ACKERMANN,
Linear and Mechanical Drawing.
Jlotre Dame.
IN 1842 the Very Rev. E. Sorin, now Superior-General of
the Congregation of the Holy Cross, visited this place for
the first time. Fully satisfied that it would be a most desirable
site for an institution of learning, he determined to establish here
the chief house of the Congregation in the United States, the
University of .Notre (Dame.
In that year it was founded, and in 1844 it was chartered by
the General Assembly of Indiana. Its growth kept pace with
the rapid progress of the Northwest ; it exhibited an enterprise
not unworthy of comparison with the energy and public spirit
that peopled the prairies and built the magnificent cities of the
Mississippi Valley. Building after building was erected as its
continuous progress required. The number of students gradually
increased, the standard of studies was steadily raised, and before
many years elapsed the University had attained an honorable
rank among the educational institutions of the Union.
A few years ago, however, the University was subjected to a
most severe trial. April 23, 1879, ^ve t^e buildings, includ-
ing the main one, were entirely destroyed by fire. The contents
of the museums, libraries, class-rooms, study-halls, etc., were burned
to ashes. But the energy and recuperative powers of the institution
were equal to the emergency. While the fire still lingered among
the smouldering ruins active preparation for the new building was
begun, and during May and all the summer the work of construct-
ing it was busily and uninterruptedly prosecuted. When September
came, and the students returned, they found on the site of the old
building one of the largest and most magnificent college edifices in
the country. Since then the growth and progress of the institution
have rendered necessary the construction of a wing on either side,
while several large and imposing buildings have been erected in
the vicinity. All these college buildings are new, well lighted,
thoroughly ventilated, heated by steam, and supplied with the most
useful modern improvements. They present a striking harmony
12	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of color, being built of cream-colored brick. A brief description
of the	-
Main and Ancillary (Buildings.
seems not inappropriate in this connection, and the most natural
order of dealing with them assigns first place to the
Main Building. This is five stories high ; while its dimen-
sions are 320 x 155 feet. The distance from the ground to the
electric light just above the statue surmounting the dome is
207 feet. The libraries, museums, art galleries, class-rooms, study-
halls, dormitories, lavatories, refectories, etc., are appropriately
and conveniently arranged. On the first floor are the refectories,
lavatories, trunk-rooms, armories, etc. The refectories are richly
ornamented with mural paintings, representing many of the most
celebrated churches and buildings in the world, and beautifully
illustrating the progress of architecture. The lavatories are
supplied with hot and cold water, and have all the customary
accommodations. The armories contain about 150 stand of arms,
with bayonets, accoutrements, etc. These arms were procured
from the State, and students of the Senior and Junior departments
may make use of them, form companies, and learn to drill. The
reception parlors, and offices of the President, Secretaries, and
Prefect of Discipline are on the main floor, as are also the study-
halls, several of the class-rooms, the telegraph office, and the
Students’ office. This floor is made of tiling, while the corridor is
lined with a series of superb mural- paintings (the work of the
distinguished Roman artist, Signor Luigi Gregori), which illustrate
the leading events in the life of Columbus, or, more particularly,
such of them as history associates with the discovery of America.
Portraits of distinguished ecclesiastics, including almost all the
Catholic Bishops in the United States, those living as well as those
who have gone to their reward, line the walls of the corridors
on the floor above, and it is appropriately called “ the Bishops’
Gallery.” The society-rooms are on the same floor, as are also
some of the class-rooms. They are tastefully ornamented with
paintings and mural decorations, not to mention the busts of several
noted personages. Two - large dormitories are likewise on this
floor. The Lemonnier Library is on the third floor, and there
also is a Museum of Curiosities. Two large dormitories, that
PROSPECTUS.
i3
correspond in size and appearance to those below, occupy .the rest
of the floor. The music-rooms of the vocal classes and the
Department of Drawing take up the greater part of the fourth
floor. The Lemonnier Library contains about 30,000 volumes,
not to mention miscellaneous objects of interest gathered from all
parts of the United States and many parts of the world. In the
Law Library are about 1200 volumes, including many of the
British and American Reports and the leading text-books. From
three to four wide oaken staircases afford communication between
the different floors all the way from the first story to the top of the
building ; and these, supplemented by several exits to the roofs of
verandas and porticoes, with ample means of descending safely to
the ground, remove all danger of personal injury in case of fire.
But the fullest precautions have been taken to guard against that
peril. With a watchman constantly on duty, water on each floor,
and hose at hand, there is absolutely no danger of fire. The halls
throughout the building are wide, high, and spacious. The many
angles which distinguish the building were planned and constructed
in accordance with the prevailing style of architecture at Notre
Dame, which is that known as the modern Gothic. These angles
serve to give great strength and solidity to the entire building,
rendering it secure against the fury of the wind and storm, not to
mention the incidental advantages of good light and perfect ventil-
ation which they afford. Just east of it is the magnificent new
Music Hall. This is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and
over 100 in height. The first floor is divided into recreation and
reading rooms, the north end being for the Juniors and the south
for the Seniors. These rooms are supplied with newspapers,
periodicals, games of all kinds, billiard-tables, etc. The dressing
rooms of the Bicycle Club and of the Athletic Association are also
on this floor. The second and third floors at the north end are
appropriately divided into music-rooms, and instrumental music
of all kinds is there taught. The Exhibition Hall occupies the
remainder of the building. In it are given the more formal lectures
as well as concerts and dramatic entertainments. Fully furnished
with the scenes, accessories and decorations appropriate to such
uses, and capable of accommodating 1200 persons, it ranks as one
of the largest and most attractive college halls in the country.
Jar
T4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Science Hall. The corner-stone of this imposing edifice was
laid by the Rt. Rev. Bishop Watterson, of Columbus, in 1883. It
is situated a few steps south of Music Hall. The dimensions are
104x131 feet, and the height is three stories, or 75 feet. It
is divided into two departments, and supplied with all the
agencies requisite to facilitate the acquisition of a complete
knowledge of the sciences. The laboratories, machinery depart-
ment, lecture-rooms, museums, engine-rooms, microscopic division,
incandescent electric light plant, etc., are admirably arranged and
elegantly finished. The Hall is fully equipped with all necessary
chemicals, preparations, specimens, charts, tools, instruments, and
the innumerable accessories of a great school of science. It is said
to be one of the largest buildings devoted exclusively to scientific
studies in the United States, and its merits, we trust, will entitle it
to rank among the best. The Seniors’ campus, or play-ground, a
level tract containing about ten acres, lies southeast of it. North-
east of it is
The Gymnasium, which measures 160 feet in length and 45 in
width, and is two stories in height. It is abundantly supplied with
swings, turning-poles, horizontal bars, and other apparatus calcu-
lated to inspire a taste for gymnastic exercises. The north half
is for the use of the Juniors, whose campus surrounds it, while
the south half is set apart for the Seniors. Just north of the
Gymnasium and Music Hall is St. Edward’s Park ; and fronting
this, facing south, is the noted
St. Edward’s Hall, a building four stories high, and 155 feet
in length, by 50 in width. This is for the exclusive use of pupils
under thirteen years of age. It is entirely separate from the
University, though under the same general management. The
building is new, and lacks none of the appointments suggested by
experience as useful or desirable. It is divided into study-halls,
class-rooms, dormitories, etc. The recreation hall is just east of
it, while farther east and north lies the play-ground. The pupils
are under the immediate direction of competent and experienced
teachers—Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
The Infirmary adjoins St. Edward’s Hall on the west. In
dimensions it is 100 x 45 feet, and three stories high. The General
Office occupies a portion of the first floor. The rooms on the
PROSPECTUS.
15
floor above are kept in readiness for the reception of students who
at any time become too ill to attend class and discharge their
customary duties. The regular physician of the University and
the Sisters in charge minister to the sick in all cases.
The Church stands a little west and south of the main build-
ing. It is generally regarded as one of the most symmetrical and
beautiful churches in the country. In size it is 275 x 120 feet, and
the distance from the ground to the apex of the roof is about
125 feet. It is ornamented with paintings, statuary, altar acces-
sories, architectural devices, etc., and hours may profitably be given
to the examination and study of these and the multitudinous objects
of interest and beauty in which it abounds. In its tower is one of
the largest bells on the American continent. Besides, there are
32 smaller bells in the tower. These vary in size and constitute
the noted “ chimes of Notre Dame.” South and west of the
Church stands	■
Sorin Hall. The style of the building is what is currently
called mixed Gothic and Roman. The height from ground to
apex is about 70 feet. It has a measurement of 144 feet along its
front, or from north to south, while in depth, or from east to west,
it will measure, when completed, 11 2 feet. The basement, about
two-thirds of which is over the ground level, has a height of 9 feet
from floor to ceiling. Above the basement the structure rises to
the altitude of three stories. The distance from the first floor to
the ceiling is-15 feet ; from the second floor to ceiling, 13 feet, and
from the third flqpr to ceiling, about 12 feet. Three wide and
substantial staircases afford ample means of passing readily from
floor to floor. The basement is appropriately subdivided into
lavatories, bath-rooms, boiler and engine rooms, etc. The building
is heated throughout by an automatic self-feeding apparatus placed
in the basement. On the first floor are two or more of the principal
offices, a chapel, law lecture room, moot-court room, law library,
society rooms, etc. A large room in the north part of the building
serves as a chapel, while the law rooms are south of the entrance,
with an east and south exposure. All of them are of ample size,
and well fitted for the uses they are severally intended to subserve.
The second and third floors are almost exclusively appropriated for
rooms, corridors, etc. The building is commodious, thoroughly
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ventilated, and the rooms and corridors are well lighted, and com-
fortably heated at all times.
A regularly established United States post-office is situated on
the University grounds, a short distance from the main building.
It is particularly intended for the accommodation of the University
and St. Mary’s Academy. But there are too many buildings at
Notre Dame to receive notice in this connection. Indeed so
numerous are they that, if brought close together, they would
cover at least four or five acres of ground. Nevertheless, the
work goes steadily forward and • great improvements are made
from year to year.
Surroundings.
The University is situated about a mile and a half north of the
flourishing city of South Bend, Ind., and about eight miles south
of Niles, Mich. It is surrounded by a fertile and prosperous farm-
ing country. And yet, by reason of its proximity to South Bend,
it combines the conveniences and accommodations of city life with
the salutary isolation, wholesome climate, and natural beauties of
the country. A great broad avenue runs directly south from the
University for a mile or more, and on both sides for half the
distance it is lined with shade trees. North and west of the
University lie two beautiful lakes—St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s..
The area of the former is but a little less than 23 acres, while that
of the latter is about 24 acres. The ground slopes • picturesquely
down to the lakes, and beautiful walks along the shores almost
surround them. On the higher ground, above the walks and over-
looking the lakes, are magnificent groves of oak, hickory, sycamore,
and other varieties of hard timber. St. Joseph’s River, swift of
current and tortuous of channel, sweeps grandly past the University
grounds on the west. The scenery along its steep and timber-lined
banks is.bold, wild, romantic.
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position almost central with reference to
the most important cities of the Mississippi Valley. The railroads
running directly to South Bend are the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern, the grand Trunk, the Vandalia Line, and the Michigan
PROSPECTUS.	17
Central. The road last named is connected with South Bend by a
lateral line which runs south from Niles, Mich., and passes through
the University grounds. Omnibuses and other conveyances, by
which visitors can expeditiously reach Notre Dame, may be found
on the arrival of trains at the stations of the roads indicated.
• (Discipline.
The regulations looking to the maintenance of discipline are
sufficiently liberal to meet the reasonable expectations of all who
try to conduct themselves as gentlemen. To these the rules are
easy of observance, and students whose deportment is not that of
gentlemen must not expect to remain at Notre Dame.
There is probably no great educational institution in the country
in which students become acquainted with one another more intim-
ately than at this University. They are brought, in connection
with their several duties, into daily, if not hourly, contact. This
fact serves to emphasize the importance of requiring compliance
with regulations calculated to render them courteous, upright,
honorable, pure in expression, respectful to religion, and emulous
to excel in their several studies.
They are required to rise at the same time in the morning, and
meals are taken by all' at the same hours during the day. All
retire not later than 10 o’clock p. m., and the signal for rising is
given not later than 6.30 a. m. At proper times, too, they are
expected to take necessary out-door exercise.
While persons of all religious denominations are admitted to
participation in the privileges of the University, it is, nevertheless,
a strictly Catholic institution, and all the students are required to
attend divine service at stated times.
Other regulations, which time has sanctioned as salutary, may
be summarized as follows : 1. No branch of study shall be dis-
continued without permission of the Director of Studies. 2. No
student shall leave the University grounds without permission of
the President or Vice-President, or the persons delegated to repre-
sent them. 3. The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except
to such students of the Senior department as receive from their
parents written permission to use it. 4. The use of intoxicating
liquors is absolutely prohibited under all circumstances. 5. Any
IS	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
■ person who injures the property of the University must make
compensation for the same. 6. To guard against clandestine and
। improper correspondence, the President reserves the right to
i supervise letters to and from students. 7- Books, periodicals,
i and newspapers are subject to the approval of the Director of
i Studies.
G&neral' Remarks.
I Neither pains nor expense has been spared to secure the services
of able, experienced and gentlemanly professors, and the authorities
of the University have reason to believe that their efforts in this
direction have been attended with results particularly gratifying.
i It may, too, be confidently stated that there is no educational
institution in the Union that affords students more time for study
or better opportunity to acquire a sound and comprehensive educa-
tion than Notre Dame offers. Its comparative isolation insures
immunity from distractions of every kind ; society throws no
allurements in the way of the student to tempt him from the
performance of his duties ; association with persons of depraved
j tastes and bad habits is necessarily avoided ; the surroundings are
favorable to study, and the student must learn,—even the common
pride of wholesome emulation compels him to do so. Moreover,
the course of life pursued under the salutary discipline in force can
hardly fail to establish firmness of character and habits that go to
form a moral, temperate, honorable and conscientious man.
Students are classified according to age as Seniors, Juniors, and
Minims. The Seniors range in age from 17 years upward. Their
dormitories, study-hall, refectory, lavatories, etc., are in the east
half of the University. The Juniors, whose ages range from 13 to
17 years, occupy the west portion of it. The Minims have a
building exclusively to themselves. The three departments to
which students are thus assigned, are entirely separate from one
another. Seniors and Juniors are seldom brought together, except
in a few classes of the Collegiate Course. The Minims have no
direct intercourse with the students of the other departments.
There are ample accommodations for six hundred resident students
at the University. The ventilation is exceptionally good. Scru-
pulous cleanliness prevails everywhere. The fare is abundant in
PROSPECTUS.	19
quantity, varied in quality, and always wholesome. The class-
rooms are large and well lighted, as are also the rooms used by the
literary, debating, dramatic, and other societies.
The societies devoted more particularly to the cultivation of
music and the drama have always been very popular, and many
of their members have reached a higher degree of proficiency than
mere amateurs are commonly expected to attain. This is largely
due to the fact that they are aided and stimulated by the sedulous
co-operation and encouragement of professors well qualified to
give instruction in music and the drama. Then, too, there are
societies specially intended to promote the interests of religion and
lead to a thorough knowledge of Christian doctrine. By means
of essays and debates great readiness in speaking, as well as felicity
in the expression of thought, is attained by many members of these
societies.
The students of the different departments are under the super-
vision of 'their respective prefects and professors ; and while they
enjoy all the freedom compatible with the requirements of good
order, they are firmly held to an observance of the courtesies and
manners recognized by gentlemen in their intercourse with one
another. But there is very little occasion for the exercise of rigor
in this respect, as the students come almost invariably from homes
in which they have been brought up under the salutary influence
of careful and proper training. They have been taught to observe
the manners that distinguish upright and honorable young men,
and it is an important aim of the discipline in force at Notre Dame
to habituate them to such manners, and to make thein in all respects
thorough, accomplished and carefully educated gentlemen—gentle-
men whose lives will be useful and honorable, and tend to reflect
credit upon their parents, themselves and the University.
EXPENSES.
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.
Matriculation Fee, ,	.	«. $ 5 00
BOARD, BED and BEDDING, TUITION,
(Latin, Greek, and Modern Languages
included,) Washing and Mending of
Linens, per Session, .	150 OO
first Session begins on the first Tuesday of September
the second on the first of February.
JVo money 'will be refunded unless students have been dismissed,
or 'withdra'wn at the request of the College authorities.
Graduation Fee.—Classical Course, $io; Scientific Courser
$io; Special Course of English, $io ; Law Course, $io; Civil
Engineering Course, $io ; Commercial Course, $5.
Students 'who spend the Summer Vacation at the University are
charged, extra, $50.
OPTIONAL STUDIES.
Any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Session :
Instrumental Music — Lessons	Artistic Drawing,	$10	00
on Piano, and Use of Instru-	Telegraphy,	10	00
ment, .	.	.	$22 50 Lessons on Violin, Guitar, Saxo-	Type-Writing—Full Course, Phonography,	• 5 10	00 00
phone, Flute, and Cornet, .	12 50	Use of Philosophical and Chern-		
Ilse of each Instrument, . 2 50	ical Apparatus,	• 5	00
Vocal Culture, .	.	.	15 00	Oil Painting,	15	00
Elocution—Special Course,	.	5 00 Use of Library, .	.	. 1 00	Gymnastics—Full Course,	• 5	00

Qualitative Chemical Analysis taken at the expense of the
student.
Programme of Studies.
preparatory Department.
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the
Classical, Scientific Course, or English Course. Students who
have completed the course receive a diploma admitting them to
membership in the Freshman Class. Those entering the depart-
ment are expected to be able to read and write, besides having an
elementary knowledge of Grammar, Arithmetic, and Geography.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.	.
i Grammar—As far as the end of Regular Conjugations.
—Harkness,
2	Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.
—Harkness,
3	Historia Sacra.
II.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
2	. Letter Writing.
3	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geog-
raphy of the United States, including Outlines of Physical
Geography.—Sadlier.
4	U. S. History—Through’the Revolutionary War.—Sadlier.
5	Penmanship.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive), in Normal Higher Arith-
metic.—Brooks.
22	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
L—LATIN.
i Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed, and Etymology com-
pleted.—Harkness.
2	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
3	Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
■ II.—ENGLISH.
i Grammar—Etymology Completed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa,
including outlines of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
4	Penmanship.
III	.—HISTORY.
i U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.
—Sadlier.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers
(exclusive), Normal Higher Arithmetic.—Brooks.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.
—Harkness.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to
Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3	Roman History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	23
II	._GREEK.
1	Grammar—From the beginning to the Verb.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-six Lessons—Greek Ollendorf.—Kendrick,
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Rules of Syntax_Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Normal
Higher Arithmetic.—Brooks.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
2	Exercises — Second Part Completed — Introduction to Latin
Composition.—Harkness.
3	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
IL—GREEK.
1	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—From 26th to 61st Lesson.— Greek Ollendorf.
■	—Kendrick.
3	Jacob’s Greek Reader—Selections by the Teacher.— Casserly.
4	Gospel of St.John—Selections by the Teacher.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1	Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.
—Harvey.
2	Letter Writing.
3	Penmanship.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.	.
1	Arithmetic—From Percentage to Involution—Normal Higher
Arithmetic.—Brooks.	’
2	Algebra (begun)—to simple Equations—University Algebra.
—Kobins on.
24	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i St. Ambrose—Extracts.
2	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
3	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
4	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
IL—GREEK.
i Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.
— Goodwin.
2	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, First Greek Book.
—Spencer's Arnold.
3	Anabasis—First Book.
III.—ENGLISH.
i	General study of Syntax.—Harvey and Brown.
2	Exercises—Composition.
IV.—HISTORY.
i	Ancient History—To Roman History.— Vuibert.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Arithmetic — From Involution to the End. — Normal Higher
Arithmetic.—Brooks.
2	. Algebra—Through Simple Equations to Radicals (exclusive),
University Algebra.—Robinson.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
25
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1
2
St. Jerome—Hilarionis Vita.
Caesar—First and Second Books.
Exercises — Third Part — Introduction to Latin Composition
Completed.—Harkness.
Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
1
2
Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.— Goodwin.
Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise, First Greek Book.
—Spencer's Arnold.
Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1
Grammar—General Review—Exercises in Composition.
—Harvey and Brown.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1
Ancient History—History of Rome.— Vuibert.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1
Algebra — From Radicals (inclusive) to Series — University
Algebra.—Robinson.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a
strict examination in all the studies of the three Preparatory
Years, unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty
and pronounced satisfactory.

Collegiate Department.
L—GL/X5SIGAL COURSE.
FRESHMAN YEAR,
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i Lactantius—De Opificio Dei—Twelve Chapters.
2	Metamorphoses—Books I and II—Ovid.	'
3	Sallust—Catiline.	.
4	Prosody—First Twenty-six Rules.— Casserly.	\
5	Exercises—Prose Composition.
IL—GREEK.
,	t
i Grammar—Syntax.— Goodwin.	.	'
2 Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises—Greek Prose Composition. -
3 Memorabilia—First Two Books.
III.—ENGLISH.
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric.— Clarke.	t
2	Rhetorical Study of Selections in Prose.
3	Compositions on Familiar Topics.	;
IV	.—HISTORY.
J
I Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.	'
V	MATHEMATICS.	1
y
i	Algebra (completed) — From Series to the End — University 5
Algebra.—Robinson.	!
2	Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.	,
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
1	I.—LATIN.
i i Virgil—Books I and II. of AEneid—Selections from Bucolics
*	and Georgies.
■	2 Cicero’s Orations—First Two Orations against Catiline.
3 Exercises—Prose Composition.
i 4 Prosody—Rules Completed.— Casserly.
‘	II.—GREEK,
f
I i Grammar—Syntax Completed—General Review.
‘	2 St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
'	3 Cyropsedia—First Book.
i 4 Exercises—From 25th to 51st Exercise—Greek Prose Compo-
i	sition.—Spencer's Arnold.
[	III.—ENGLISH.
A
f I Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the End, with Review
|	of Composition.— Clarke.
I 2 Rhetorical Study of Selections in Poetry.
I 3 Compositions on Familiar Topics.
[	IV.—HISTORY.
»
I
I
i Modern History—From Crusades to the End.—Fredet.
i
’	V.—MATHEMATICS,
t
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed)—Solid.—Loomis.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
?	FIRST SESSION.
!	I.—LATIN.
€
| I Virgil—Books V and VI of yEneid.
;	2 Cicero’s Orations—For the Poet Archias.
,	3 Exercises—Prose Composition.
j 4 Prosody—From Rules to Versification.— Casserly.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
29
I
2
3
i
2
3
I
I
I
2
3
4
5
6
I
2
3
I
2
3
I
I
II.—GREEK.
St. Gregory—Machabees.
Homer—Iliad—First and Second Books.
Exercises—Prose Composition.
Ill—ENGLISH..
Rhetoric—General Review.— Clarke.
Lectures in English Literature by Prof.. Egan-;.
Essays and Orations.
IV—NATURAL SCIENCES.
Human Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene.—Martin*.
V—HISTORY.
History of England.—Burke's Lin gar di.
SECOND SESSION.
I—LATIN.
St. Augustine—De Civitate Dei—Exercises.
Horace—Odes—Ars Poetica.
Cicero—De Senectute.
Exercises—Selected.
Prosody.— Casserly.
N erses.
II—GREEK.
Homer—Iliad continued.
Thucydides—First Book.	'
Exercises—Selected.
HI—ENGLISH.
English Literature—Lectures by Prof. Egan.
Study of Selected Plays of Shakespeare.
Essays and Orations.
IV—MATHEMATICS*
Trigonometry—The entire subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
V—HISTORY.
History of England.—Burke's Lingard.
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Livy—Two Books.
2	Horace—Satires and Epistles.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Roman Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
II.—GREEK.
i	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2	Demosthenes—De Corona.
3	Homer—Odyssey.
4	Exercises—Selected.
HI.—ENGLISH.
i Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
Elements of Literary Criticism.—Blair.
3	American Literature—Lectures by the Professor.
4	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
5	Narrative and Descriptive Composition.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
i	Logic.—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Organography, Histology, and General Classification
of Plants.—Bessey.
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
I Physics, Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—Theoretical Chemistry.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
i	Tacitus—Germania and Agricola.
2	Juvenal—Six Select Satires.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
CLASSICAL COURSE.	.	31
II.—GREEK.
1	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
2	yEschylus—Prometheus Vinctus.
3	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
4	Greek Antiquities—Entire Subject.—Bojessen.
III.—ENGLISH.
1	Elocution.
2	Elements of Literary Criticism.—Blair.
3	American Literature—Special Lectures by Prof. Egan.
4	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
5	Expository and Argumentative Composition.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
1 Ontology and Psychology.—San Severino.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.	•
1 Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.—Kellerman. (Laboratory
Practice optional.)
VI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—Optics, .Magnetism, and Electricity.
2	Chemistry—Inorganic Chemistry.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
‘	I.—LATIN.
1	Plautus—Captivi, Trinummus and Rudens.
2	Quintilian—Book X.
3	St. Augustine—De Rhetorica Christiana.
4	Composition—Original Themes.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato -Crito.
2	Pindar—Selections.	’
3	Euripides—Medea, and Iphigenia in Aulis.

32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Theodicy and Ethics.—^ouin.
2	Dissertations.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1	Philosophy of History.
V	.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy.—Young,
SECOND SESSION.
I.—LATIN.
1	Ancient Latin Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage.
2	, Cicero—De Officiis and Tusculans.
3	Composition—Original Themes.
4	Terence—Andria and Adelphi.
II.—GREEK.
1	Plato—Apology.
2	Sophocles—Philoctetes and Antigone.
3	Aristophanes—Selections.
4	Ancient Greek Literature—Entire Subject.—Louage,
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Philosophical Systems, and History of Philosophy.
2	Dissertations.
3	Lectures by the Professor.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1 Geology and Paleontology.—Dana.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy—Completed.— Young.
N. B.—During the four years of this course, students have an
opportunity of attending Lectures on ’Historical, Literary, Philo-
sophical and Scientific subjects.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
33
Elective Studies.
Commercial—Book-Keeping, Commercial Law.
Languages—French, German, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew.
Fine Arts—Painting, Drawing (Figure, Landscape, Mechanical
and Architectural).
Music—Vocal and Instrumental.
Mathematics—General Geometry, the Calculus, Surveying.
Dogma.
II SGIEJMTIFIG GOUpSE.
. [The preparatory studies are the same as for the Classical
Course, except that Isatin or Greek may be replaced by one of
the Modern Languages.]
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.'
i Composition—Through Figures of Rhetoric—Essays.— Clarke.
2 Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra (Completed)—From Series (inclusive) to the end—
University Algebra.—Robinson.
2 Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis.
HL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy, Physiology, and Hygiene.—Martin.
2 Microscopy—Microscopical Technology.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
‘ i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.*
V.—DRAWING.
i. Linear Drawing. Free Hand Drawing.
* Students choosing to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades
of the Classical Course. For French, German or Spanish, see programme of
the Course of Modern Languages.
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
i Rhetoric—From Figures (exclusive) to the end, with review of
Composition—Essays.— Clarke.
2 Modern History—From the Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
I Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed), Geometry of Space
(Solid and Spherical). Conic Sections.—Loomis.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.—Holder.
2 Demonstrations in the Biological Laboratory.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V.—DRAWING.
i Architectural Drawing. Machine Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
I Rhetoric—General Review.—Hart.
?. English Literature—Lectures by Prof. Egan.
II	.—HISTORY.
i History of England.—Lingard.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
i Trigonometry—The Entire Subject, including Mensuration.
—Loomis.
2 Analytical Geometry. — Wentworth.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	37
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1	Botany—Organography, Histology and General Classification
of Plants.—Bessey.
2	Demonstrations in the Biological Laboratory.
V.—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
VI.—DRAWING.
?»
i Projection of Shadows, Shading in India Ink and Sepia.
Free-Hand Drawing.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	Rhetoric—General Review.—Hart.
2	English Literature—Lectures by Prof. Egan.
II.—HISTORY.
1 History of England.—Lingard.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Surveying—The entire Subject of Land Surveying.— Gillespie.
2	Analytical Geometry.— Wentworth.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.	.
1	Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.
2	Principles of Cellular Biology—Lectures by the Professor.
V.—LANGUAGES.	.
1	French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
VI.—DRAWING.
1	Linear Perspective, Use of W ater Colors, Decorative Art.

38	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
II.	—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2 Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Prop-
erties of Minerals.— Collins.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
I French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V	.—ENGLISH.
i Elements of Literary Criticism—Blair’s Lectures on Rhetoric
and Belles-Lettres.
2 Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i General Geometry and Calculus.— Olney.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2 Chemistry—(Elementary)—Inorganic Chemistry.
HL—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i	Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
— Collins.
2	Practice in Determination of Minerals, Blowpipe Analysis and
Metallurgy.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.	39
IV.—LANGUAGES.,
1 French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
V.—ENGLISH.
1	Elements of Literary Criticism.—Blair.
2	Elocution—Principles of Elocution and Voice Culture.—Lyons.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I—MATHEMATICS.
1	Descriptive Geometry—Shades and Shadows.
2	Astronomy.—Young.
3	Mechanics—Statics.—Smith.
II.—PHILOSOPHY.
1	Logic and General Metaphysics.—Hill.
HI.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	General Physics.
2	Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
1 French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1 Astronomy.— Young.
i Mechanics—Dynamics, Hydrostatics, Hydrodynamics.—Smith.
IL—PHILOSOPHY.
1 Special Metaphysics—Lectures by the Professor.
4o	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
c	III.—HISTORY.
i Philosophy of History.
IV.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
i General Physics.
2 Analytical Chemistry—Outlines of Chemical Analysis.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Geology and Paleontology.—Dana.
VI.—LANGUAGES.
i French, German or Spanish, Latin or Greek.*
Elective Studies.
In the Junior and Senior Years, there are special courses in the
Natural Sciences which are left to the option of the student.
Languages—Greek, Italian, Spanish, Hebrew. Fine Arts—
Painting, Drawing (Figure and Landscape). Music—Vocal and
Instrumental. Dogma. Ecclesiastical History.
Any student in this course is at liberty to take any of these
studies at any period of his course, provided he can do so con-
sistently with his regular studies. In addition to the legular
recitations and practical illustrations in the Natural and Physical
Sciences, Lectures are given throughout the course by the
Professor.
* It must be remembered that the Language which is taken up at the
beginning of the Freshman Yeai- must be continued to the end of the
Course, or till satisfactorily known.
Special Courses.
SPECIAL ENGLISH COURSE — LAW COURSE — CIVIL
ENGINEERING — THE COMMERCIAL COURSE —
MODERN LANGUAGES.
I.—Special English Course.
yf CHANGE is coming over American Colleges with respect
to the teaching of English. Till a very recent period the
higher branches of Rhetoric and Literary Criticism did not receive
all the attention they deserved. The last decade has witnessed
a marked improvement in this point, and the importance of the
higher study of English is now recognized in all the great educa-
tional institutions of this country and of Europe. It has been
remarked by a great authority that, “ when once the English
language and English and American Literature become recognized
as a regular educational course, the advantages will be so great as
to constitute nothing short of a national benefit.”
The Faculty of the University of Notre Dame, recognizing the
fact that the exclusive study of the ancient languages and of pure
science is not in itself sufficient for a liberal education, have deter-
mined to institute a course which shall provide for a more than
ordinarily thorough acquaintance with the English language and
with English and American literature. At the same time, all that
is most serviceable in the Classical and Scientific courses will be
made an indispensable requisite.
The course will extend over a period of four years, and those
who have completed the prescribed studies and passed the exami-
nations satisfactorily will receive the degree of Bachelor of Letters.
A high standard will be kept up throughout the course in- all
English branches, and the degree will be conferred on no one
who, besides giving evidence of proficiency in the Classics and
Science, has not also given proof of ability to apply the principles
of composition and shown an acquaintance with the writings of
the best authors in English and American literature.
The appended scheme of the course explains itself ; it is only
necessary to emphasize the following points :
[i]	From the beginning of the course to the end special attention will be paid
to Essay writing, and each essay will be read and criticised in its
author’s presence.
ENGLISH COURSE.	43
[2]	Facilities are afforded for a training in journalism by the publication,
weekly, of the Notre Dame Scholastic, a twenty-four page paper devoted
to the interests of the students, the columns of which are open to their
contributions. Every student of the course will be expected, after the
expiration of the first year, to contribute to the Scholastic at least two
articles per session.
[3]	A familiarity will be required with the masterpieces of the leading English
and American authors, and students will be encouraged to peruse the
works of such authors during theii' leisure hours by having access at
all times to a library containing a complete collection of all the English
Classics.
[4]	A Graduation Thesis will be required of every student ; this must show,
besides grace of style, a scholarly treatment of the theme selected. The
choice of themes will be left to the graduates, subject to the approval of
the Faculty.
The preparatory studies for this course are the same as those
introductory to the Classical Course, with the exception that Latin
or Greek may be replaced by one of the Modern Languages.
The Faculty have determined to spare no pains to render this
course of the utmost value and interest to the students, and to
encourage them to acquire a thorough familiarity with their native
lauguage, and a facility in speaking and in composition, which is
everywhere recognized as an indispensable requisite for success in
any profession in which they may be engaged in after life.
The programme of studies is as follows :
FIRST YEAR.-DICTION.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	Elements of Rhetoric—English Composition and Rhetoric.
2	Rhetorical Study of Selections in Prose.
3	Compositions on Familiar Topics.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1 Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.*
* Students choosing to take Latin or Greek will follow the regular grades
of the Classical Course. For French, German and Spanish, see programme
of the Course of Modern Languages.
44	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
i Algebra—(Completed)—From Series (inclusive) to the end—
University Algebra.—Robinson,
q, Geometry—Plane Geometry—Five Books.—Loomis,
IV.—HISTORY.
i	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Human Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene.—Martin,
SECOND SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
i Elements of Rhetoric—Figures and Qualities of Style.—Hart.
2	Rhetorical Study of Selections in Poetry.
3	Compositions on Familiar Topics.
II.—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
HI.—HISTORY.
i Modern History—From the Crusades to the end.—Fredet.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
i Geometry—Plane Geometry (Completed) — Solid Geometry.
Conic Sections.—Loomis.
SECOND YEAR.-BELLES-LETTRES.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Higher Rhetoric—Written Exercises and Oral Discussions.
2	Biographical Study of English Literature.
3	Lectures on Special Periods of English Literature.
4	. Study of Select Passages of Quintilian in English.
5	Essays and Orations.
6	Lectures on Models of Style.
ENGLISH COURSE.
45
IL—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
III	.—HISTORY.
»
i History of England.—Burke's Lingard.	■
IV	.—M ATHE M ATICS.
i Trigonometry—The entire Subject, including Mensuration..
—Loomis.
2, Analytical Geometry.— Wentworth.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.—Holder.
?. Demonstrations in the Biological Laboratory.
SECOND SESSION.
L—ENGLISH.
i Higher Rhetoric—Written Exercises and Science of Rhetoric—
Oral Discussions.	*
2	English Literature.
3	Lectures on Models of Style.
4	Essays and Declamations.
5	Study of Selections from Aristotle’s Rhetoric translated into
English.
IL—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
HI.—HISTORY.
I History of England.—Burke's Lingard.
IV.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
i Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.
2 Principles of Cellular Biology—Lectures by the Professor.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
i Analytical Geometry. — Wentworth.

46	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THIRD YEAR.-LITERATURE.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	Elements of Literary Criticism—Blair’s Lectures on Rhetoric
and Belles-Lettres.
2	Biographical Study of American Literature — Tyler’s Manual,
Supplemented by Lectures on Special Periods.
3	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
4	Narrative and Descriptive Composition.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1 Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
III.—HISTORY.
a
1 Lectures on History and the Philosophy of History—European
Civilization.—Balmes.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1 Logic.—San Severino,
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Mechanics, Acoustics, and Heat.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Theoretical Chemistry.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1 Elements of Literary Criticism.—Blair.
American Literature—Lectures on Special Periods.
3	Critical Study of Standard American Authors.
4	Expository and Argumentative Composition.
ENGLISH COURSE.	47
IL—LANGUAGES.
1 Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
III.—HISTORY.
1 Lectures on History and the Philosophy of History..
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1 Ontology and Psychology.—San S&verino.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1	Physics—(Elementary)—Optics, Magnetism, and Electricity.
2	Chemistry—(Elementary)—Inorganic Chemistry.
FOURTH YEAR-PHILOSOPHY.
FIRST SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
1	Lectures on the Principles of Literary Criticism.
2	Lectures on the Philosophy of Style.
3	Oratorical Composition — Discussion of Themes — Extempo-
raneous Speaking.
4	Lectures on the Literature of the Nineteenth Century.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1	Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.	.
HL—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1	Lectures on the Principles of Political Economy.
2	Lectures on Civil Government.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1 Moral Philosophy.— Jouin.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1	Astronomy.— Young.
48	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SECOND SESSION.
I.—ENGLISH.
i Lectures on the Principles of Literary Criticism.
2	Lectures on the Philosophy of Style.
3	Extemporaneous Speaking—Oral Discussion of Topics in His-
tory and Political Economy.
4	Lectures on the ^Esthetics of Literature.
IL—LANGUAGES.
i Ancient and Modern Languages — Latin or Greek, French,
German or Spanish.
III.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
i	Lectures on the Principles of Political Economy.
2	Lectures on the Constitution and Political History of the United
States.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
i	Lectures on Philosophical Systems and History of Philosophy.
2	Moral Philosophy.—Jouin.
V.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
I Geology and Paleontology.—Dana.
VI.—MATHEMATICS.	‘
I Astronomy.—loung.
II—UAW COURSE.
UMEROUS changes have recently been made in this Depart-
ment. The regular course has been extended to a period
of three years ; the standard of studies has been raised to the
most approved plane, and the Lecture system has been substituted
for the compulsory use of text-books. It may now be confidently
claimed that no Law School in the country offers superior facilities
for acquiring a thorough and practical knowledge of the Law.
Students of the Law Department pass through a course that
qualifies them to undergo the most searching examination for
admission to the Bar in any part of the Union. No special
preparation is requisite for matriculation. Any person 17 years of
age, or upward, and having a fair English education, is eligible.
Young men may enter the Department as students at any time
during the year ; though, of course, it is more desirable to do so at
the beginning of the session.
The diploma admits, without examination, to the Bar of the
State and Federal courts, subject to the Constitutional requirement
that applicants for admission shall be voters.
.Methods of Instruction.
Instruction is given by means of daily Lectures, with accompa-
nying examinations, and the trial from week to week of Moot-Court
cases. The order of procedure in these cases corresponds as closely
as practicable to that followed in the trial of actions and suits in
the regular courts of law and equity. The Lectures embrace and
fully cover the various subjects of Contracts, Torts, Statutory
Enactments and Construction, International, Constitutional, Com-
mercial, Maritime, and Criminal Law, as well as Medical Juris-
prudence, Common Law and Equity Pleadings and Practice, Code
Pleadings and Practice, Evidence, etc.
Each candidate for a degree is required to prepare and submit
to the Faculty a thesis of at least 30 folio pages upon some legal
subject, the selection of which is left to himself. This should be
.................
50	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
submitted about a month before graduation, and it must be satis-
factory both in substance and manner of treatment. The writer is
expected to read it before the Class. The elementary text-books
may be read collaterally with the Lectures, though these are more
comprehensive than in other Law Schools, and cover all subjects
likely to arise in connection with actual practice or the most search-
ing examination. They deal with all the living branches of the
Law, and the student who writes full notes of them, and diligently
studies the same, acquires a complete and reliable knowledge of
its principles. The decisions of the courts are based upon these
principles, and it is the aim of the course of instruction at Notre
Dame to impress them upon the mind in so clear and thorough
a manner that they are not likely ever to be forgotten. Their
relations to one another are pointed out, the growth of subordinate
rules from them is explained, and their application to actual or
hypothetical cases emphasizes the important office they serve in
furnishing a key to complicated questions of law and equity.
While the Lectures impart as general a knowledge of the Law
as students require for admission to the Bar and practice in the
courts, it is nevertheless deemed advisable to urge them to pursue
concurrently a course of reading. The works here named are
recognized as among the most serviceable and popular of
Standard Law (Books.
Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries, Walker’s American
Law, Reeve’s or Schouler’s Domestic Relations, Angell and
Ames on Corporations, Parsons on Contracts, Williams or Wash-
burn on Real Property, Story on Agency, Stephen’s or Gould’s
Pleading, Greenleaf on Evidence, Edwards or Story on Bailments,
Parsons on Bills, Daniel on Negotiable Instruments, Lindley or
Parsons on Partnership, Bishop on Marriage and Divorce, Bishop
on Criminal Law, Story’s or Adams’s Equity, Story’s Equity
Pleadings, Cooley or Addison on Torts, Cooley on Taxation,
Cooley’s Constitutional Limitations, Schouler’s Personal Property,
Redfield on Wills, Wheaton’s International Law, Story’s Conflict
of Laws, Benjamin on Sales, Parsons’ Maritime Law, Dillon on
Municipal Corporations, Sedgwick on the Measure of Damages,
LAW COURSE.	51
Freeman on Judgments, Freeman on Executions, Bouvier’s Law
Dictionary, Taylor’s Medical Jurisprudence-, Ewell’s Evans on
Agency, Perry on Trusts, Benjamin’s Chalmer’s Digest — Bills,
Notes and Checks, — Hutchinson on Carriers, Sutherland on
Damages, etc.
All these books may be made available in actual practice, and
consequently students need incur no special loss in purchasing as
many of them as they can find time to read. However, this is a
matter which, to a great extent, is left optional. It is not regarded
as essential to read in connection with the Lectures more than a
few of the works indicated in the preceding list. The Lectures
are prepared with reference to this fact ; and one of the objects in
view in so preparing them is to place at a minimum figure
The Expenses
incident to pursuing the study of Law at Notre Dame. It does
not admit of doubt that many bright and worthy young men in
different parts of the country are deterred from gratifying a cher-
ished ambition to engage in the study of Law by the apprehension
that they cannot meet the expenses necessarily incident to doing
so. They suppose that the single item of books demands an outlay
of from $150 to $300. But that supposition is erroneous. The
study of Law can be pursued at Notre Dame without any note-
worthy expense, aside from such as is voluntarily incurred. In
that particular there is probably no university in the country that
surpasses this in the inducements offered to students. The Law
Library of the University, which contains all the standard text-
books, as well as the Reports of all the States and Territories, and
of all the Federal Courts, is free and open at all reasonable hours
to the students of this Department. The Law Lecture-room is
scrupulously neat, well lighted, and furnished with desks for the
students. It is one of the most commodious rooms in the building.
While the incidental expenses are merely nominal, the accommo-
dations, including board, lodging, washing, etc., are excellent in all
respects. The course of study covers a period of ten months in
the year. In other well known institutions the annual duration of
the professional courses is from six to nine months. In view of
52
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
all these things, it is believed that the study of law is attended with
less expense here than in any other well known law school. But
it is hardly necessary to indicate more particularly in this connection
the special advantages offered to students of this Department.
Course of Study.
The Law Course covers a period of three years. But in cases
where students are entitled to advanced standing, by reason of
previous study, or where they daily attend two Lectures and the
“ Quiz Class,” they may be graduated in two years or less, provid-
ing they satisfactorily acquit themselves in the final examination.
The authorities have been actuated by commendable motives in
extending the Law Course to three years. In the first place, they
recognize that the standing of the professions has been lowered
by a too indiscriminate admission to them of persons of limited
education. And they are aware that to such persons, in most cases,
a professional life offers numerous disappointments, and but few
laurels. It frequently proves to be a life barren of results, and the
fact is usually discovered too late to admit of being effectually
remedied. Having made their choice, they find themselves, as a
rule, subject to circumstances that forbid a change of occupation.
It is also recognized that, generally speaking, young men do not
make amends for defects in education after taking upon themselves
the stern duties of practical life, and becoming involved in the
engrossing cares and ceaseless activities of business. To guard
against such disappointments and mistakes, it is sought to make
graduation in this Department a sufficient test of the education and
professional qualifications of the student to assure him that he is
making a proper choice, and to assure the profession that he may
be admitted to its ranks without detracting from its dignity, com-
promising its honor or lowering its standard.
With a view, therefore, to supplying young men with a good
general education, as well as with thorough professional knowledge,
all the departments of the University are open to them. Without
extra expense, they may enter the classes and pursue the studies of
the Scientific and Classical Courses, and be graduated in the same,
if they so desire. As they find time and have inclination, they
LAW COURSE.
53
may study Mathematics, the Natural and Physical Sciences, Liter-
ature, Ancient and Modern Languages, etc., in connection with
the Law. Before receiving the degree of LL. B. they are required
to pass a satisfactory examination, not only in the different branches
of the Law, but also in logic, rhetoric, English literature and history.
The authorities of the University seek to meet the most exacting
expectations of its friends, and the public generally, by assuring
to students of this Department not only qualifications of a high
order in the profession, but also a sound general education.
Such are some of the considerations that have actuated the
authorities to extend the Law Course to a period of three years.
Students of this course mingle with other students of the University,
and, without distinction, have the same advantages, privileges and
accommodations. They are likewise subject to the same rules of
discipline. These rules have been adopted with reference to the
acknowledged fact that a high moral standard is an important
requisite of an honorable and successful career. They are designed
to shape the lives of students in accordance with such standard,
and to inculcate at the same time a wholesome tone of manly
dignity and honor, as well as a just appreciation of the claims of
social and professional ethics.
*
GiVil Engineering
CANDIDATES for admission into this Course must exhibit
proof of proficiency in the Art of Drawing as laid down in
the Scientific Course, and must pass a thorough examination, such
as is required of Scientific graduates, in Chemistry, Physics,
Geology, Mineralogy, and in the several branches of Pure and
Mixed Mathematics. The Course of Civil Engineering can
then be completed in one year, as follows :
FIRST SESSION.
I.—DRAWING.
. Theory — Shades, Shadows, etc. — Advanced Course in Per-
I x ucuiy  Kjiiuvico, uuriuuvvj, cit.   xiu vanui-u	xn x vx-
spective.
II.—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—(Begun).—Mahan.
2	. Lectures on Resistance of Building Materials, etc.
3	Pure Mathematics—Calculus Reviewed.
SECOND SESSION.
L—DRAWING.
1 Plans and Elevations of Engineering Constructions. — Stone-
Cutting.
IL—APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
1	Civil Engineering—Concluded.—Mahan.
2	Lectures on Roads and Bridges.
3	Hydraulics.
JMecKanical Engineering.
W^HIS course is designed to familiarize the student simultaneously
with the principles and practice of Mechanical Engineering.
He will be required to devote from nine to twelve hours a week
to the exercises of the laboratory and workshop, and to give good
evidence of manual dexterity, and an acquaintance with all the
operations of the machine-shop, the wood-working departments,
foundry, and blacksmith-shop. The exercises of the fourth year
will be confined chiefly to the making of precise measurements,
the testing of materials, engines, pumps, boilers, etc., a tour of
inspection, original research, and preparation of thesis.
Candidates for the Freshman Year must pass an examination in
the Commercial Course, Ancient and Modern History, Algebra
(through Quadratic Equations), and Plane Geometry. Practical
shop work may be taken by students of the preparatory grades.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
Algebra.—Robinson.
Solid Geometry.—Loomis.
Composition.—Hart.
Physiology.—Martin.
Linear Drawing.
Shop Work.
SECOND SESSION.
Trigonometry and Mensuration.
—Loomis.
Rhetoric.—Hart.
Botany.—Kellerman.
Linear Drawing.
Shop Work.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
C al cu lus.— Olney.
English Literature.
—Morley and Tyler.
French or German.
Chemistry and Physics.
Descriptive Geometry.
—Davies.
Shop Work.
SECOND SESSION.
Analytical Geometry.
English Literature.
—Morley and Tyler.
French or German.
Descriptive Geometry.—Davies.
Chemistry and Physics.
Machine Drawing.
Shop Work.
56	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
Analytical Mechanics.
French or German.
Materials of Engineering.
Chemistry and Physics.
Kinematics and Machine
Drawing.
Shop Work.
SECOND SESSION.
Analytical Mechanics.
French or German.
Machinery and Mill Work.
Chemistry and Physics.
Kinematics and Machine
Drawing.
Shop Work.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
Prime Movers.
French or German.
Logic.—Hill.
Mineralogy and Metallurgy.
Machine Drawing and Design.
Experimental Mechanics.
SECOND SESSION.
Prime Movers.
French or German.
Metaphysics.—Hill.
Mineralogy and Metallurgy.
Machine Drawing and Design.
Experimental Mechanics.
Practical Mechanics m Science Hall.
Commercial Course.
^T^HIS Course requires two years’ study for graduation ; it
includes arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography,
United States History, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-
keeping, and Commercial Law,—in other words, all the branches
of a complete business education.
Considering the character and needs of the country—especially
of the great West in which we live — this course is the most
practical, and one of the most important that an educational
institution can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or the means to take
a complete College course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of
study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such studies
as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The training resulting
from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost benefit to the
student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received
the most careful attention from the officers and Commercial Faculty
of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the graduates of
this course a more complete business training than can be obtained
in any purely commercial college. Believing that a business
education includes something more than a mere knowledge of
Book-keeping, and that a good education cannot be had in a few
weeks, the authorities have extended this course over two years,—
the shortest time in which the studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a student desire during this period
to pursue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. General History
and Linear Drawing are especially recommended to the students
of this course. They will also in the future have the opportunity
of attending an elementary course of the Physical and Natural
Sciences. Many commercial students find it also to their advantage
to take up the study of German or French, for which there are
COMMERCIAL COURSE.	59
the amplest facilities. A talented and studious young man may
thus in the course of two years find himself in the possession of a
most valuable practical education, which will fit him to take his
place in the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
BOTH SESSIONS. .
1	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
3	Geography—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate Pre-
paratory Course (Eclectic Series).
4	United States History—The amount included in both Sessions of Collegiate
Preparatory Course.—Sadlier.
5	Reading and Orthography.
6	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Session of Second
Year Preparatory in Classical Course.	„
2	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Session of Second Year
Preparatory in Classical Course.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-Keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—(Completed)—Same as in 2d Session of
Second Year Preparatory.
2	Grammar and Essays—Same as in 2d Session of Second Year Preparatory.
3	Orthography.
4	Book-keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.
5	Commercial Law.
6	Penmanship.
Optional Studies.—Phonography, Telegraphy, Type-Writing, General
History and Linear Drawing.
The routine of study in the Course of Book-keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year :
— Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by
6o	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Double Entry ; ist Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of
Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, on Account of Others ;
3d Series, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th
Series, Importing and Exporting on Private Account, on Account
of Others, and on Account of Ourselves and Others in Company ;
5th Series, Receiving and Forwarding Merchandise, the Manage-
ment and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling,
Remitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills
of Exchange, Banking—Private and Joint Stock,—Steamboating,
Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’
Accounts. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Law. Particular
attention is paid to the explanation of the Law of Negotiable
P aper.
•	^3SK9E9H •1 ■■■ ■ ■ ——■ ।   •
Modern Languages.

FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—One Hundred Exercises.
2	Exercises in Reading, Penmanship and Orthography.
’ SECOND SESSION.
1	Ahn’s Rudiments of the German Language—from the 100th to the 200th
Exercise.
2	Exercises in Reading, and Written Translations.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i	Ahn’s Second German Book.
2	German Reader.
3	Written Exercises—Daily.
MODERN LANGUAGES.	61
SECOND SESSION.
i	Ahn’s Second German Book—To the end.
2	German Reader—Continued.
3	Written Exercises—Daily.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i	Ahn’s Third German Book—Seventy-five Exercises.
2	Leseiibungen und Erklarung ausgewahlter Stucks aus Bone’s Lesebuch,
erster Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik die Formenlehre.
4	Taglich eine schriftliche Aufgabe.
SECOND SESSION.
i	Ahn’s Third German Book—To the end.
2	Bone’s Lesebuch -Fortsetzung.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung dei- Formenlehre.
4	Taglich eine schriftliche Aufgabe.
FOURTH YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i	Ahn’s Fourth German Book.
2	Sprachliche und sachliche Erklarung ausgewahlter Stiicke aus Bone’s
Lesebuch, zweiter Theil.
3	Deutsche Grammatik—die Satzlehre.
4	Aufsatzlehre.
SECOND SESSION.
i	Ahn’s Fourth German Book—To the end.
2	Lesen, Erklaren und Declamiren ausgewahlter Stucke aus Bone’s Lesebuch,
zweiter Theil.
3	Grammatik—Wiederholung und Fortsetzung der Satzlehre.
4	Aufsatzlehre, und Einleitung zur deutschen Literatur.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language is employed as the medium of instruction.
62	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE' DAME.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
i	Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty Lessons.
2	De Fiva’s Elementary French Reader—Twenty Pages.
3	Orthography.
SECOND SESSION.
i Fasquelle’s Introductory French Course—Thirty-nine Lessons—Regular
Verbs.
2	De Fiva’s Reader—To the end.
3	Orthography.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST SESSION-
i Fasquelle’s French Course—Forty five Lessons, and from page 261 to
page 357 of Second Part of same work.
2	Buffet’s Literature.
3	Letter - Writing.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Fasquelle’s French Course—From 46th Lesson to the end of First Part,
and from page 327 to end of Second Part—Irregular Verbs.
2	Litterature Contemporaine—To end.
3	Exercises in Composition.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST SESSION.
I Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Etymology.
2	Litterature Classique.
3	Conversations—Weekly Exercises in Composition.
SECOND SESSION.
1	Grammaire de Noel et Chapsal, with Exercises—Syntax.
2	Telemaque—For Translation.
3	Conversations and Compositions.
N. B.—Similar Courses exist in the University for the other
Modern Languages — especially the Spanish, a knowledge of
which is now becoming so useful to students from the Southern
and Southwestern States and Territories.
MISCELLANEOUS.
Science Hall, Notre Dame. Corner-Stone Daid, 188,3; Completed, 1885.
Miscellaneous
(Post = Graduate Course.	|
^T^EIE students in this course occupy themselves with Philosophy,
History, and the Natural and Physical Sciences. Law, I
Medicine, and Civil Engineering are optional studies of the
Course.
Civil Engineering.	.
The Course of Civil Engineering has been established of late
years, and it affords advanced students the opportunity of fitting
themselves for the practice of this eminent profession.
The (Department of (Physical and .Natural Sciences*
Notre Dame has always given special attention to the cultivation
of the Physical and Natural Sciences, but during the past few
years extra efforts have been made in this direction, with a view of
affording to her students all the facilities and advantages that may
be found in the best equipped scientific schools. A large and
commodious building, in the Romanesque style, known as “ Science
Hall,” has been erected for this purpose, and it is the intention of
the authorities to make it as perfect in all its appointments as any
similar institution in the country. It is one hundred and thirty-
one feet long by one hundred and four feet deep, and proportionally
high. There are upwards of twenty-five spacious, well lighted
and well ventilated rooms in the building, nearly all of which are
designed either as lecture rooms or laboratories for the various
branches of experimental science.
The building has been carefully planned for the purposes to
which it is appropriated, and embodies in i'ts construction all the
improvements and conveniences to be found in the most approved
scientific structures of this country and Europe.
Special attention has been given to make the building convenient
both for the professor and student. The laboratories, lecture-rooms,
and cabinets are so connected with one another, and with the grand
apartments set aside for the museum, that specimens and apparatus
Department of microscopy — Biological laboratory.
Physical Laboratory',
68	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	I
are always at hand when desired, and where they can be used.
The students of Natural History have their specimens systematically :
arranged in rooms adjoining their laboratories, whilst the students '
of Chemistry and Physics have their cabinets conveniently near, '
and, at the same time, independent of each other, owing to the	;
peculiar plan of the building. The various classes can enter the	1
rooms and laboratories without interfering in any way with one
another, and can continue their studies and experiments indefinitely	।
without interruption. The general principles of science are taught	।
by lectures, and these are supplemented by practical work in the	।
various laboratories.	:
In Chemistry and Physics the necessary apparatus are at the	,
disposal of the student, and he is expected to verify,, by observation	:
and experiment, what has not been experimentally illustrated in
the lectures he has attended.
In all these departments, as well as in those of Physics and ;
Chemistry, special stress will be laid on practical work, and a
student’s proficiency will be estimated by his record of observation
and experiment in the laboratory and workshop.
In the study of Botany, Zoology, and Physiology, each student
is provided with a microscope and the necessary accessories, and
most of his time is spent in microscopic study, under the direction
of the professor.
In Geology and Mineralogy the system is the same. The
student commences work in the laboratory at once, and thus early
becomes acquainted with the various minerals, rocks, fossils, etc.
The blowpipe, microscope, polariscope and clinometer are in
constant use to verify what has been learned in the lecture-room,
and to fix it on the memory.
In the Department of Mechanical Engineering there are fully
equipped workshops, for wood and metals. Steam engines and
dynamo-electric generators, and motors of various types and sizes
furnish the power required, and afford’the student special facilities
in making experiments concerning the various forms of energy.
A Photographic Laboratory is also fitted up in the building,
where the student is enabled to learn, practically and in a short
time, the art of modern Photography, and thus prepare himself
for professional work in the studio.
MISCELLANEOUS.
69
Rooms have likewise been set aside for Assaying and Metallurgy,
and it is the purpose of those in charge to leave nothing undone to
make the work in this department compare favorably with that
accomplished in the others.
Additions of apparatus, specimens, and books for reference are
constantly being made to the various departments, and no effort
will be spared to make “ Science Hall ” a recognized center of
thorough work in genuine practical science.
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
1 to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of which is
so necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German language—the classes of which are so numerously
attended — has been taught by five instructors during the past
scholastic year. The number of students attending the German
classes is becoming greater every year. The study of French is
recommended to all the students of the Collegiate Course. The
course of Spanish will receive special attention in the future, and
other modern languages may be taught when required.
Telegraphy, and Type - Writing i
These branches invite the special attention of the students of the
Commercial Course. Both departments are fully equipped for
practical work. The Telegraphic Department is superintended
by a skilful electrician, and the classes are under the personal
instruction of an experienced operator who has seen much actual
service and held responsible positions in the railway service.
In the Type-writing Department the machine in use is a
first-class Remington, with the latest improvements. Thorough
instruction is given in the manipulation and care of the machine, in
the correct forms of business letters, law work, essays, and general
writing.
(Phonography, or Short = hand,
is of very great assistance to those in the higher classes, enabling
its possessor to take verbatim notes of lectures, etc. It is adaptable
to the English, French, German or Spanish languages. With a
70	■ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
good English education it is a profession in itself, and one not likely ;
to be overcrowded for years to come. First-class phonographers
and type-writers are always sure of employment, and pupils in :
both branches here find every facility to fit them for the highest '
grades of practical work.
Phonography and Type-writing have of late come into general (
use in legal and commercial work — in the court, the law office,
and the countinsc-room, in business houses, banks, insurance and
railroad offices, etc., — and, for first-class stenographers especially,
the demand exceeds the supply. A knowledge of these useful arts
will therefore prove a strong recommendation for confidential and !
lucrative positions.
Elocution.	f
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame
in the facilities afforded to students for acquiring proficiency in :
elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises are practical, ;
and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety. These exercises |
are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is peculiarly adapted for the
purpose, being eligibly situated, large, and elegantly furnished.
The exercises constitute an important part in the studies of young
men who strive to cultivate, with success, literature, oratory, and
the dramatic art. The approved methods of stimulating and '
developing the natural elocutionary powers are called into requisition [
as occasion seems to warrant. To this end the drama receives a
due share of attention ; from time to time an appropriate tragedy
or comedy is rendered by students, on the stage of the new Music
Hall, with all the customary accessories and appointments used in
connection with dramatic performances. Four public exhibitions are i
given during the year, and public literary exercises are held seven |
times during the same period. An oratorical contest is one of the <
notable features marking the close of the year. For the purpose
of encouraging and stimulating students to put forth their best
efforts, premiums and gold medals are offered to those who most
distinguish themselves. When all these things are duly considered,
there need be no hesitation in repeating that “no educational
institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame in the facilities
offered to students for acquiring proficiency in elocution.”	I
MISCELLANEOUS.

Anatomy and Materia Medica.
Young men desiring to prepare for the Medical profession will
find opportunities to do so at Notre Dame. The Course of
Studies in this department embraces Materia Medica, Anatomy,
and Surgery.
(Drawing and (Painting.
The University, which is becoming every year more widely
and favorably known as an art center, enjoys ample facilities for
imparting instruction in this branch. It possesses a large number
of models, a fine studio, and able and zealous teachers of the art
The eminent artist Signor Luigi Gregori, of Rome, is still in
charge of the department.
Music.	|
This department is complete in all its appointments. It has able
Professors and is divided into classes on the regular Conservatory
system. An Orchestra of fifteen pieces, an excellent Quartette,
and a Brass Band of twenty-five instruments, are some of the
leading features of the Instrumental Music Department.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and I
which has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students
during the past few years, will receive even more careful attention
in future, and it is hoped that this branch will become every year
more popular.
heading = (Rooms.
The lower floor of the new Music Hall is divided into large and
neatly furnished Reading rooms, for the benefit of the Senior and
Junior departments. These reading rooms are supplied with books
and periodicals from the library, and students have access to them
during the hours of recreation.
72	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Lemonmer Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers over 25,000 volumes. A reading room has been opened
in connection with the Library, in which the leading periodicals of
Furope and America are to be found on file. The members of
the Library Association desire to give their Alma Mater a collection
of books which can stand comparison with those possessed by any
other educational establishment in the United States ; therefore
they call on the friends of the University to assist them by donations
of books, pamphlets, periodicals, and manuscripts. All contri-
butions should be addressed to the Librarian of the Lomonnier
Library, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Academy of Music. Dedicated June 21, 1882,
JVIinim Department.
FOR the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen,
there has been established a Department to which the most
scrupulous attention has always been paid by the College authorities;
it is known as the Minim Department, and has ever been one of
the greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as well as to all
persons visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an English education is here imparted, together with
a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French, and German. Vocal
Music and Drawing form no extra charges. The pupils of this
department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under whose
maternal and tender care they pass nearly the entire day. During
the hours of recreation, and while in the refectory and dormitory,
they are under the charge of kind and efficient Prefects.
(Discipline.
The following is the order of the day : Rising, at half-past six ;
toilet, etc. ; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercise in the Campus ; half-past seven, study ; half-past
nine, recreation and lunch ; ten, study ; a quarter to twelve, toilet ;
twelve, dinner, followed by recreation ; half-past one, study ; half-
past three, recreation and lunch ; half-past six, supper and recreation;
half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that while the
Minims devote never less than six hours a day to study, they are
never more than two hours in succession in the class-room. The
recreation and exercise in -the fresh air, between each two hours of
study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to their
classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the hours of
recreation, as well as in the class-room and study-hall. The
presence, however, of the Prefects is far from being a restraint on
the amusements of the boys ; for while it is the duty of the Prefects
to insist that their young charges shall always keep within the
/ OMI '3 V\LVC1-31=f-LO N)
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	75
limits of the strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take part in
all sports, organize games, and do everything in their power to
foster a love of healthful exercise. The play-grounds consist of a
fine level five-acre field, well supplied with turning-poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all. other necessary gymnastic
apparatus. That the boys make good use of them can best be seen
from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably attracts
the notice of visitors.
Connected with the play-ground is a fine brick play-hall,
160 feet long, heated by steam. There the boys play in rainy
or cold weather. In this building is one of the finest hand-ball
alleys at Notre Dame. Adjoining the grounds is a large orchard
to which the Minims have access in proper season. They are
allowed so many privileges of a similar nature that, among the
students of the other departments, they are often pleasantly spoken
of as the “ privileged class of the little college world.” The Sisters
preside at the toilet ; they clean and mend the clothing, see to all
the needs and to the comfort and convenience of the Minims.
Baths are taken every Saturday. Underclothing is chang'ed
regularly twice a week. Great care is taken that the boys be
neatly dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the season.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim Department : that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to
supply servers for the Church offices ; and the Sorin Association,
which has been established with a view to give the pupils a start,
as early as possible, in Elocution. The Society is in charge of one
of the Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are held once
a week, after school hours. These meetings are a source of
pleasure as well as of profit. The members prepare original
compositions, deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only
the best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to
membership. To encourage this young Literary Society, a Gold
Medal is annually awarded at Commencement for Elocution to
the most deserving- member.
76	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
. General (Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much
milder than that which is suited to students more advanced in age.
Recourse is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in charge
endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing
to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose conduct and
application to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads
of Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic, a paper
published weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name mentioned in
these rolls is found to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil,
as its non-appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, again, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of two
full years to all whose deportment has been unexceptionable during
that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim immediately
after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape his conduct with
a view to receiving an “ Honor.” The greatest care is taken to
form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to inculcate the
practice of refined manners. Every effort is made to foster respect
and affection for parents, to whom they are expected to write, at
least, once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording ample
accommodation for over one hundred pupils, is devoted to their use.
It is four stories in height, ninety-five feet long, and forty-five feet
wide ; heated by steam, supplied throughout with the Edison
incandescent electric light, and provided with hot and cold water.
The ceilings in the Study Hall, Class Rooms, and sleeping apart-
ments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large and numerous,
affording abundant light and ventilation. The Study Hall com-
mands a charming view from each of its eleven large windows.
It is tastefully decorated with statuary, beautiful pictures, choice
plants, and beautiful flower caskets, etc. Besides the pleasure the
Minims derive from studying in this bright, beautiful hall, their
habits and tastes are cultured by coming into contact with such
refining objects. Fronting the building is a handsome park, which,

Study Haul.
78	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers, adds not a little
to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well as to the happiness of
the Minims.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and
others who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that, while the Minims have every possible advantage to aid
them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a most
happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom that
they would enjoy under the care of their mothers. .
EXPKNSSS.
Entrance Eee, .	.	.
BOARD, TUITION-, etc., per Session of Five
Months, .	.	.	.
$ 5 00
125 00
The only extra in this Department is Instrumental Music. The
charge per session for Piano lessons, and the use of the Instrument,
is $12.50 ; the charge for Violin lessons, per session, is $6.25.
Pz^zls who remain during- the two Summer Vacation months
are charged, extra, $40.
Each pupil’ on entering should have 6 shirts, 4 pairs of drawers,
6 night shirts, 12 pocket handkerchiefs, 6 pairs of winter stockings,
6 pairs of summer stockings, 6 towels, 2 hats or caps, 2 pairs of
boots or shoes, 2 suits of clothes for winter, 2 suits for summer,
1 overcoat, combs, brushes, etc.

FROM SEPTEMBER, 1888, TO JUNE, 1889.
Adelsperger, Edward R......................Indiana.
Ahlrichs, Alwin............................Alabama.
Allen, Joel................................Ohio.
Aarons, Harry J............................Michigan.
Ayer, John V...............................Illinois.
Ackermann, Francis Xavier..................Indiana.
Amador, Celso C............................New Mexico.
'	Allen, Walter S........’....................Texas.
Adams, Edward E............................Illinois.
Akin, Wm. B................................Indiana.
Alvarez, Angel L...........................Mexico.
.	Adams, Albert M.............................Illinois.
Adler, Max.................................Indiana.
Albright, Fred L...........................Nebraska.
.	Anson, George M.............................Wisconsin.
$
■	Berry, Joseph E.............................Colorado.
Blake, Samuel..............................Minnesota.
’	Bombeck, Charles T."........................Missouri.
:	Brady, James M..............................Illinois.
,	Bunker, Irving L............................Missouri.
Bassford, Edward...........................Minnesota.
Ball, Robert J., Jr........................Illinois.
Bombeck, Julius D..........................Missouri.
Bates, Earl W..............................Iowa.
Brennan, James T...........................Illinois.
Beaudry Ulrich.............................Indiana.
'	Bretz, John E...............................Illinois.
Burns, Jos. J..............................Iowa.
Brookfield, Edward.........................Ohio.
Barbour, John C............................Illinois.
Burger, Clement S..........................Pennsylvania.
Blumenthal, Maxwell F......................Illinois.
(	Boyd, James R...............................Indiana.
Bancroft, John R...........................Illinois.
Blessington, Edward	J....................Iowa.
Bruggemann, Wm. J.....................:... .Minnesota.
Brown, Fred H..............................Illinois.
'■	Bearinger, Wm...............................Michigan.
;	Brelsford, Homer P..........................Illinois.
■	Bearinger, Fred...................•	•.......Michigan.
;	Brewer, Daniel C............................Colorado.
'	Beckwith, Nicholas P........................New Mexico.
.	Bruel, Samuel W.............................Colorado.
I	Burns, Thos. D., Jr.........................New Mexico.
,	Brownson, Ph. VD............................Michigan.
So	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bates, Benjamin F........................Colorado.
Bryan, Edward............................Indiana.
Becker, Jacob F..........................Colorado.
Bronson, Harry O.........................Indiana.
Blackman, Wilbur P........................Minnesota.
Bailey, Win. W...........................Colorado.
Brannick, Henry P........................Illinois.
Bradley, James C.........................Colorado
Baltes, Edward M.........................Indiana.
Brennan, John J..........................Minnesota.
Brannick, Edward J.......................Missouri.
Bronson, Ross D..........................Indiana.
Brown, Win. S............................Colorado.
Barrett, Dennis..........................Wisconsin.
Burke, Patrick E........................ Minnesota.
Beckman Alex............................... Ohio.
Bryan, Patrick H. .
Brady, Thos. F...
Bacigalupo, Joseph
Brown, Charles W
Burns Joseph H. .
Brown, Otto H ....
Brown, Wm. C....
Boyle, J uan A....
Blease, Charles....
Brookfield, Carroll.
Barnes, Henry A. .
. Indiana.
\ Michigan.
. Illinois.
. Minnesota.
. Indiana.
.. Illinois.
. Michigan.
. Nebraska.
.. Illinois.
.. Ohio.
. Colorado.
Curry, Frank................................Indiana.
Craig, George H..........• • • •............Illinois.
Coulter, George.............................Iowa.
Creedon, Wm.................................Nebraska.
Cornell, Frank..............................New York.
Crandall, Wm. H.............................Illinois.
Campbell, Stafford.. -......................Texas.
Cleary, Thomas F............................New York.
Connors, Edward B...........................Wisconsin.
Cleary, Sylvester L.........................New York.
Conway, Eustace.............................Iowa.
Crandall, Eugene B..........................Illinois.
Connolly, John P............................Iowa.
Crooker, J esse D...........................Illinois.
Crabb, Harvey E.............................Indiana.
Crawford, William...........................Illinois.
Cunningham, John A..........................Tennessee.
Crawford, Arthur............................Illinois.
Cohn, Arthur................................Ohio.
Clemens, A. M...............................Illinois.
Campbell, Edgar.............................Texas.
Connor, Chas. J.............................Illinois.
Covert, Wm. H...............................Ohio.
Connor, Wm. T...............................Illinois.
Connors, James D............................Wisconsin.
Ciarcoschi, Salvator........................Illinois.
Creighton, A................................N ebraska.
Cooney, James J.............................Ohio.
CATALOGUE. OF STUDENTS.	81
Chacon, Eusebio............................Colorado.
Cavanagh, Chas. T..........................Illinois.
Chacon, Ladislas...........................Colorado.
Cook, George J.............................Illinois.
Collins, Sewell T. Jr......................Missouri.
Connelly, George J.........................California.
Cook, John R...............................Illinois.
Connelly, Harry A..........................California.
Cusack, John P.............................Nebraska.
Carroll, Hugh J............................Ohio.
Cauthorn, Henry S..........................Indiana.
Cullen, Wm. D..............................Minnesota.
Casey, Irwin...............................Wisconsin.
Campbell. Arthur W.........................Wash. Ter.
Cartier, Dezire E..........................Michigan.
Cusack, Joseph E...........................Nebraska.
Cartier, Wm. E.............................Michigan.
Carney, Fred W.............................Wisconsin.
Clendenin, Richard C., Jr..................Montana.
Chute, Fred B..............................Minnesota.
Coady, Patrick FI..........................Illinois.
Chute, Louis P.............................Minnesota.
Coady, Thomas H............................Illinois.
Crane, James R.............................Michigan.
Cudahy, John...............................Illinois.
Campbell, Wm. J............................Illinois.
Coady, Edward H............................Illinois.
Creedon, Frank.............................Nebraska.
Cass, Budd 0...............................Illinois.
Castleman, J. T............................Kentucky.
Crotty, Fred P.............................Illinois.
Combe, Joseph X............................Texas.
Cartier, George R..........................Michigan.
Carter, James V............................Illinois.
Case, Rolland A............................Ohio.
Cassidy, Morris............................Indiana.
Clark, Andrew S............................Illinois.
Connors, Frank B...........................Indiana.
Cavanaugh, John W..........................Ohio.
Corbett, Thos. H...........................New Jersey.
Clark, James C............................	.New York.
Crumley, Thomas A..........................Ohio.
Dempsey, Louis C...........................Michigan.
Decker, Edward.............................Indiana.
Dempsey, Frank.............................Michigan.
D’Arcy, Nicholas...........................Colorado.
Dempsey, John..............................Michigan.
Duffield, Frank E..........................Ohio.
Darragh, Thomas............................Minnesota.
Daniels, Alvin B...........................Colorado.
Dunning, Louis J...........................Indiana.
Davis, Louis B.............................Michigan.
Draper, Harry..............................Indiana.
Du Brul, Orville N.........................Ohio.
Durand, Wm. H..............................Indiana.
82	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I	Du Quesne, Wm.	St. C...................Illinois.
j	Dunn, Frank..............................Ohio.
I	Devine, Win. P...........................Illinois.
I	Du Brul, Ernest F........................Ohio.
I	Devine, Arthur J.........................Illinois.
|	Dunn, Joseph.............................Ohio.
{	Dore, Michael............................Illinois.
*	-v-	-
IDanehy, John.....................................New York.
Dungan, Jesse............................Ohio.
Dacej, Chas. F...........................Illinois.
Dorsev, Eugene W....................... Ohio.
|	Davis, Louis N...........................Kentucky.
|	Delaney, John V..........................New York.
Downing, Loyal A.........................Indiana.
I	Dungan, James............................Ohio.
Dench, Chas. II..........................Illinois.
Dwyer, D. Edward.........................Minnesota.
Darroch, John W..........................Indiana.
Dinkel, Nicholas S.......................Ohio.
Darroch, Hugh M..........................Indiana.
Dougherty, John C........................California.
Doherty, John E..........................Indiana.
Dungan, Paul.............................Ohio.
Davis, Richard...........................Rhode Island.
Dodson, Chas. S..........................Illinois.
Doherty, Harry F.........................Indiana.
Donahue, Michael A.......................Illinois.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Colorado.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Michigan.
Illinois.
Evanson, George T.......................
Evers, George...........................
Ernest, John W..........................
Elder George........'...................
o
Erwin, Charles..........................
Elkin, Eli..............................
Elder, James B..........................
Elkin, Manuel...........................
Evers, Frank............................
Eckler, Chas............................
Edenborn, Max...........................
Ferry, Robert N..........................Wisconsin.
Furthmann, Edward........................Illinois.
Fisher, John E...........................Iowa.
Furthmann, Wm............................Illinois.
Falvey, Edward...........................Missouri.
Freeman, L. Brice........................Ohio.
Flanagan, John M.........................Minnesota.
Foster, Joseph J.........................Illinois.
Fleming, Porter W........................Colorado.
Franche, Gilbert.........................Illinois.
Fleming, Charles S..................... .Colorado.
Franche, Cyril...........................Illinois.
Falvey, Thos. J. P.......................Missouri.
Fleming, John T..........................Illinois.
Finnerty, Thomas........................ Colorado.
Furthmann, Charles.......................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
Fleming, Richard.........................Colorado.
O J
Falvey, Frank............................Missouri.
Fisk, Wm. D..............................Colorado.
Frei, George B...........................Michigan.
Foster, Wm...............................Illinois.
Fleming, Stephen	B....................Indiana.
Fehr, Frank..............................Kentucky.
Fitzgerald, Christopher C................Oregon.
Foley, T. W..............................Iowa.
Flynn, John C............................Minnesota.
Fanning, Edward..........................Indiana.
Franklin, Nathan E.......................South Dakota.
Ford, Wm. F.......................•......Utah.
Fitzgerald, Richard J....................Illinois.
Fitzgerald, James J......................Iowa.
Ferkel, Elmer T..........................Ohio.
Fack, Edward F...........................Indiana.
Forbes, Frank............................Montana.
Finckh, Adolph...........................Ohio.
Gregg, Ansel S..........
O O '
Gallagher, John J.......
Garrennes Des, Henry P
Gappinger, John W........
Green, Adair.............
Goodman, Frank......................
Goodwillie, Douglas....
Grange, Joseph.............
Gregg, Issac...............
Goebel, Tiburtius A. ...
Girsch, John H.............
Galland, William R.........
Goke, Manuel B.............
Greene, John T. . .•.......
Giblin, Joseph F...........
Greenman, Harry............
Garfias, Maria..........
Giblin, John............
Galen, James L..........
Garrabrant, Richard T..
Galen, FI Frank..........
Gallagher, John J........
Grant, Charles...........
Goben, Wm. J. .................................
Godmann, Carl............
Gallardo, Jose S.........
Goodson, Henry C.........
Gray, John...............
Girardin, Wm............
Gerber, Frank...........
Graham, Robert C.........
Gilkison, David..........
Guillen, Manuel..........
. .North Dakota.
.. Ohio.
.. Dist. of Columbia.
. . Indiana.
. .Illinois.
...Colorado.
. .Illinois.
..Indiana.
. .Pennsylvania.
.. Ohio.
. . Illinois.
.. Colorado.
. .New Mexico.
... Illinois.
. .Minnesota.
... Illinois.
. .Mexico.
. .Minnesota.
.. Montana.
.. Illinois.
. .Montana.
..Pennsylvania.
.. Illinois.
. .Indiana.
.. Illinois.
. .Mexico.
.. Ohio.
. .Illinois.
.. Michigan,
o
. .Illinois
. .Wisconsin.
..Illinois.
. .Mexico.
Hinckly, Clayton B...........................Indiana.
Healy, Paul J................................Illinois.
84	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Hartmann, Wm............................Colorado
Hepburn, Joseph L.......................Texas.
Howard, Mark... • •.....................Minnesota.
Hendry, Howard..........................Ohio.
Hagus, Joseph...........................Colorado.
Healy, John E...........................Illinois.
Heller, Adolph T........................Michigan.
Hesse, Bernard B........................Iowa.
Howard, John............................Indiana.
Healy, Raymond J........................Illinois.
Hinds, Richard L........................Indiana.
Hamilton, Wesley A......................Illinois.
Healy, Wm. M............................Iowa.
Heddenberg, Ernest R....................Illinois.
Hagan, Fred.............................Indiana.
Hoerr, Leonard J........................Ohio.
Hill, Wm. S.............................Pennsylvania.
Hannin, Michael P.......................Ohio.
Elackett, Leroy.........................Iowa.
Heard, Clyde L..........................Texas.
Hackett, John W.........................Missouri.
Hayes, Wm. E............................Illinois.
Hermann, Louis J........................Indiana
Haddigan, James.........................Colorado.
Hoover, Edward M........................Pennsvlvania.
J	.J
Higgins, Harry A........................Michigan.
Hughes, Bela............................Colorado.
Heintzen, Frank.........................Michigan.
Hughes, Elsworth C.....................Colorado.
Eloward, Edward J.......................Indiana.
Flalthusen, Wm..........................Colorado.
Howard, Michael............’............Illinois.
Hempier, Ph. EI.........................New York.
Hoffman, Louis J........................West Virginia.
Elanrahan, Wm. F........................Iowa.
Hague, Philip F.........................Texas.
Henderson, Frank E......................Missouri.
Elennessy, Wm. B........................Wisconsin.
Hill, Frank H...........................Minnesota.
Hammond, Edwin P........................Indiana.
Henneberry, Martin J....................Illinois.
Hahn, Gustav A..........................Michigan.
Horne, Brose............................Indiana.
Hermann, Wm.............................Montana.
Hummer, J. Sylvester....................Ohio.
Houlihan, Patrick.......................Indiana.
Elyland, Joseph M.......................New York..
Holden, Idermes A.......................Michigan.
Hamilton, Andrew J......................Texas.
Irwin, Albert...........................Colorado;.
Ibold, Otto H...........................Ohio.
Irwin, Robert...........................Colorado;.
Inks, Bernard...........................Indiana.
Jewett, Edward H........................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
85
Johns, Harold............................
Johnson, Wm. J...........................
Jennings, John J.........................
Jackson, Oliver A........................
Jackson, George..........................
Jewett, Fred L...........................
Johns, Thos. B...........................
Jewett, Harry M..........................
Jonquet, Eugene..........................
Just, Joseph.............................
Jeffry, Ollie............................
Joslyn, Marcellus L......................
Indiana.
Pennsylvania.
Wisconsin.
Nebraska.
Colorado.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Luxemburg.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Nebraska.
Indiana.
Wisconsin.
Michigan
Indiana.
Illinois.
Michigan.
Illinois.
New’ York.
Illinois.
New York.
Indiana.
N ew Y ork.
Minnesota.
Llinois.
Kentucky.
Illinois.
Minnesota.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Minnesota.
Illinois.
Minnesota.
Indiana.
Prince Edward’s Island.
Kinsella, James J......................
Kirk, Robert L.........................
Krollman, Carl.........................
Karasynski, Anthony....................
Krembs, Fritz A........................
Knight, N. G.........
Kimball, Glen D......
Kutsche, Arthur O .................
Keeler, Samuel H...................,....
Kutsche, Wilbert O.....................
Kehoe, La-wrence P.....................
Koester, Charles.......................
Kehoe, Edward P........................
Kenney, John...........................
Kehoe, Vincent P.......................
Kirwin, Michael J......................
Kelly, Frank H.........................
Kellner, Fred F....................,....
Kane, Joseph...........................
Kelly, [ohn M..........................
Kaye, Clarence.........................
Kearns, John...........................
Kohlman, Fred..........................
Kearney, Joseph........................
Knoblauch, George......................
Kelly, Arthur..........................
King, John A...........................
Lamon, Gustave G........................France.
Larpenteur, Paul.........................Minnesota.
Lansing, Edward H........................Illinois.
Levi, Maurice..........................  Minnesota.
Larkin, Arthur...........................Kansas.
Lane, Franklin E.........................Kansas.
Lahey, Wm. A.............................Michigan.
Lozano, Jacobo M.........................Mexico.
Leonard, Arthur E........................Missouri.
Livingston, Guy..........................Colorado.
Londoner, Hermann..................... Colorado.
Lesner, J ohn............................Colorado.
Long, Louis J............................Missouri.
Lenhoff, John G..........................Colorado.
Lappin, John T...........................Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Long, Ferdinand..........................Missouri.
Lonergan, Arthur.........................Illinois.
Larkin, Wm...............................Iowa.
Lee, Walter B............................Illinois.
Larkin, Ell.............................Iowa.
Long, Geo. P...............................Minnesota.
Landgraff, Martin..........................Indiana.
Lenburg, Banhard...........................Illinois.
Louisell, Medor............................Michigan.
Lauth, Michael.......................Luxemburg.
’	o
Moore, Banks.. ;.....
Marre, Angelo........
Moore, Thos. V ......
Moncada, Jose F......
Maternes, Jacob......
Mahon, Thos. F. H....
Maher, Wm. F.........
Morton, Edw. H.......
Murphy, Harry A......
Maurus, Edward J.....
Maloney, Michael.....
Monarch, H. Lamar....
Minor, Louis J.......
Merkle, Wm.J.........
Mattes, August.......
Mackey, James H......
Mattes, Francis X....
Madden, Fred J.......
Mainzer, Felix L.....
Malone, James L......
Mosier, Winthrop L......
Mithen, John H_______
Marx, Henry J........
Mayer, Adolph H......
Mooney, John D.......
Marre, John B........
Mooney, Christopher H
Morrison, Edw. K.....
Mooney, Herbert......
Morrison, Vincent E ...
Montague, Harry.......
Meladv, Ed. P..“.....
Monaghan, Geo. W....
Meagher, Wm. J.......
Morrison, Wm. I..... ..
.... Arkansas.
.. . .Kentucky.
.. .Mexico.
.... Illinois.
. . .Mississippi.
.... Iowa.
.... Illinois.
. . . . Indiana.
. .. .Illinois.
... .Wisconsin.
.... Kentucky.
.... Missouri.
.... Ohio.
.... Illinois.
... .Minnesota.
, .. .Illinois.
.... Iowa.
.. . .Minnesota.
... .Kentucky.
.... Illinois.
.. .. Iowa.
.... Illinois.
.... Colorado.
... .Illinois.
. .. . Arkansas.
.... Illinois.
.... Iowa.
.... Illinois.
.... Iowa.
.... Illinois.
.... Minnesota.
.... Ohio.
.... Minnesota.
___ Iowa.

&
Meagher, Alonzo E.........................Minnesota.
Merz, Charles.............................Pennsylvania.
Mayer, George S.E.........................Indiana.
Miller, Arthur............................South Dakota-
Marr, Wm. W...............................Illinois.
Murphy, Henry C...........................Illinois.
Meagher, John B...........................Minnesota-
Major, Frank..........................-.. Indiana.
Mackey, Fred C............................Iowa.
Morrison, Bert............................Minnesota.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
8?
Mayerhoefer, George J...................Ohio.
Maguire, Joseph.........................Illinois.
Marciniak, Roman A......................Indiana.
Maguire, Matthew F......................Newfoundland.
Mestling, Edward........................Illinois.
Mahorney, Frank W.......................Indiana.
Mestling, Henry.........................Illinois.
McCartney, James M......................Indiana.
McNally, Richard J......................Missouri.
McDonough, J............................Ohio.
McErlain, Frank E.......................Indiana.
McGuire, Simms..........................Illinois.
McAlister, Hilary C.....................Ohio.
McDonnell, Charles......................Illinois..
McAlister, Geo. G.......................Ohio.
McGrath, John J.........................Illinois.
McIvers, Edward J.......................Wisconsin..
McMahon, John Edward....................Illinois.
McHenry, Owen...........................Indiana.
McCarthy, John B........................Minnesota.
McIntosh, James L.......................Nebraska.
McCarthy, James 'T......................Arkansas.
McAuliff, James.........................Minnesota.
McCune, Thomas..........................Indiana.
McPhee, Wm. P...........................Colorado.
McPhee, Charles S.......................Colorado.
McIntosh, John T........................Nebraska.
McCarthy, Robert E......................Colorado.
McGenty, Charles........................Minnesota..
McDonnell, Frank........................Iowa.
McGuire, Vincent........................Ohio.
McNulty, Joseph M.......................Illinois.
McWilliams, John........................•. Connecticut.
MacLeod, Kenneth, Jr....................Illinois.
McDonnell, Wm...........................Iowa.
McDaneld, Dan. E........................Illinois.
McCarthy, Charles R.....................Minnesota.
McKeon, Thomas J....... -...............South Dakota.
MacLeod, Willis.........................Illinois.
McCarthy, John H........................Arkansas.
Neef, Fred E............................Ohio.
Nations, Rudolph........................Mexico.
Neef, Alfred............................Ohio.
Nichols, Wm. W..........................Minnesota.
Neenan, Thomas..........................Indiana.
Newton, Kent..........................Texas.
Newton, Robert C......................Arkansas.
Nester, Arthur T......................Michigan.
Nichols, Alfred.......................Ohio.
Nockels, Jacob........................Iowa.
Nester, Frank P.......................Michigan.
Nichols, Clive........................Minnesota.
Noe, Ellsworth...........................Indiana.
Nichols, Andrew..........................Ohio.
Neal, Victor B...........................Indiana.
88
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.

O’Flaherty, Aloysius E
Oppenheimer, Harry..
O’Brien, George L...
O’Brien, Edward J...
O’Brien, Wm.........
O’Mara, John D......
O’Donnell, Jas. V...
O’Connell, Matthew J ..
O’Connor, James D. ...
O’Donnell, John P...
O’Neill, James......
O’Brien, Wm. P......
Owens, Benjamin F...
Ohlwine, Louis......
O’Hara, Robert A.....
O’Rourke, Frank J...
O’Flaherty, Pat. E..
O’Shea, John........
O’Neill, Wm. P......
O’Brien, George F...
O’Rourke, John J....
.... Missouri.
.... Illinois.
.... Indiana.
... .Wisconsin.
.. .. Minnesota.
.... Indiana.
.... Illinois.
.. . . Indiana.
.... Illinois.
• • • - Michigan.
.... Connecticut.
.. .. Indiana.
.. . .Tennessee.
.... Indiana.
.... Minnesota.
.. .. Missouri.
___California.
.... Michigan,
o
.... Indiana.
___Ireland.
.... Newfoundland.
Peters, Milton E...
Plautz, Henry......
Parker, Frank E...
Populorum, Paul A
Priestly, Crayke S.
Pecheux, Henry J ..
Prichard, H. J....
Prichard, Fred C..
Paul, Clement.....
Porter, Robert....
Paul, Leon........
Porter, Harry M.. .
Pollock, Ray C....
Peck, Frank B.....
Paris, Gustav.....
Peck, James S.....
Prudhomme, Ed. C
Patterson, Burt. M.
Palmer, Ralph L...
Papin, Rene V.....
Pierce, Harry.....
Pim, Louis........
Powell, Richard L
Powers, Frank....
Paquette, Charles.
. Iowa.
. Illinois.
. Arkansas.
Illinois.
Iowa.
.New York.
. Kentucky.
, Kentucky.
. Indiana.
Colorado.
. Indiana.
Colorado.
Illinois.
Colorado.
Michigan.
Colorado.
Louisiana.
Indiana.
New Mexico.
Missouri.
Illinois.
Missouri.
Michigan.
Illinois.
New Jersey.
Michigan.
Quinlan, Michael
Quill, Daniel....
Illinois.
Illinois.
Read, Brodie..
Roth, Anthony
Rose, Isaac S. .
Indiana.
Ohio.
Indiana.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	89
Ready, James S............................Ohio.
Robinson, Henry G..........................Illinois.
Reinhard, John J..........................Ohio.
Ramsey, Charles P. M......................Indiana.
Reedy, Dunnette V.........................Ohio.
Reynolds, Michael.........................Wisconsin.
Rose, Samuel..............................Indiana.
Rorke, Richard J..........................Washington.	Ter.
Roberts, Frank............................Missouri.
Roesch, Edward J..........................Ohio.
Roberts, Wm. C............................Missouri.
Rowsey, Wm. A.............................Ohio.
Richardson, James W.......................Indiana.
Ricksecker, Don Pedro.. ..................Kansas.
Roth, Earnest C...........................Indiana.
Riedinger, Louis	E......................Michigan.
Rothert, Otto A	......................Indiana.
Roberts, Clifford S.......................: Ohio.
Roper, Clarence A.........................Indiana.
Rea, Edward L.............................Illinois.
Rice, Max P...............................Indiana.
■Seidensticker, A.........................Ohio.
■Snyder James R...........................Pennsylvania.
Stone, Lee................................Texas.
Sheehan, Frank P..............•...........Illinois.
Schultz, Edward...........................Michigan.
Spear, Arthur.............................Illinois.
Stewart, C. Edward........................Indiana.
Schillo, Charles S........................Illinois.
•Silver, Harry............................Colorado.
■Schillo, Fred J..........................Illinois.
Stanton, Wm. A............................Minnesota.
Scherrer, Leo J...........................Colorado.
Sullivan, Chas. H.........................Indiana.
Seerey, Joseph H..........................Ohio.
Sutter, Lester L..........................Illinois.
Spaulding, Richard M......................Kentucky.
Sloan, Horace G...........................Wisconsin.
•Schmitz, John G..........................Illinois.
Sullivan, Robert T........................Missouri.
Stanfield, E. L...........................Indiana.
•Savage, Edward...........................Colorado.
Soden, Chas. A............................Missouri.
Scherrer, Chas W..........................Colorado.
Stange, Alfred............................Illinois.
Steiger, Harry E..........................Colorado.
Sullivan, John B..........................Iowa.
Shear, Charles............................Colorado.
Stephens, Perley..........................Illinois.
Springer, Frank H.........................Georgia.
Sawkins, Edward A.........................Ohio.
Steinmann, George W.......................Michigan
Scholfield, W. B..........................Illinois.
Smith, Frank L............................Colorado.
Sullivan, David...........................Illinois.
90	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Stephenson, Edward G...................
Smith, Matthew AV......................
Smith, Thos. H, Jr.....................
Smith, Henry L.........................
Soden, George T........................
Sachs, Albert D........................
Spencer, Chas. H.......................
Sloan, Henry E.........................
Sullivan, Algernon J...................
Staples, Guy D.........................
Stafflin, Theodore N...................
Santen, Herman N.......................
West Virginia.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Washington Ter.
Missouri.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Montana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Illinois.
New Mexico.
Utah.
Illinois.
Massachusetts.
Illinois.
Nebraska.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Illinois.
California.
Illinois.
Colorado.
Illinois.
Talbot, Joseph E...................
Toolan, Fred......................
Trujillo, Pablo...................
Tewksbury, David..................
Thaver, Fred. L...................
Tiernan, Wm. PI. J................
Towne, Alban S....................
Twohig, Patrick...................
Taylor, Wm. R.....................
Tarrant, George W.................
Toolen, Frank.....................
Toner, Joseph M...................
Thornton, David G.................
Tetard, Geo. Wm.......................
Thorn, Frost, Jr....................
Vurpillat, Frank J........................Indiana.
Velasco, Ramon..........................  .Mexico.
Vurpillat, Victor J.......................Indiana.
Walsh, James J............................Ireland.
Wright, John A............................Cal if ornia.
Wood, F. W................................Missouri.
Wise, Henry M.............................Illinois.
Weitzel, George T.........................Kentucky.
Webb, Fred................................Indiana.
Welch, Albert E...........................Iowa.
Wile, Fred W..............................Indiana.
Woods, O. H...............................Illinois.
Welsh, Wm. H..............................Ohio.
Weldon, Richard...........................Indiana.
Williamson, Wallace.......................Kentucky.
We ver, Frank B...........................Illinois.
Wade, Thomas A............................Ohio.
Welsh, John J.............................Colorado.
Wood, Paul H..............................Illinois.
Webb, Robert L............................Colorado.
Washburne, Victor.........................Illinois.
Willien, Wm. F............................Indiana.
Whitlock, S...............................Illinois.
Wynne, Thomas K...........................Georgia.
Waixel, Isaac H...........................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
Wilbanks, Tanner A..................... .Illinois.
Wagoner, Philip..........................Nebraska.
Watson, William...........................Illinois.
Webb, Frank H.............................Indiana.
Wilcox, I. Dow............................Kentucky.
Witkowsky, Simon..........................Illinois.
Wilson, Wm................................Wisconsin.
West, Caleb W.............................Utah.
Watson, Thomas D..........................Illinois.
Williams, John D..........................Kentucky.
Wilson, Louis H...........................Illinois.
Wile, Berthold............................Indiana.
Waterman, Wm..............................Illinois.
Youngermann, Frank....................Iowa.
Younker, Harley.......................Colorado.
Young, Wm. F..........................Pennsylvania.
Youngermann, Carl F...................Iowa.
Zinn, Louis ’W........................Iowa.
Zeitler, E. A.........................Indiana.
Zoehrlaut, George Guido...............Wisconsin.
Zeller, Rudolph.......................Michigan.
Zoehrlaut, Chas. W....................Wisconsin.
Associated
Rev. A. MORRISSEY, ’78, C. S. C., President.
Rev. L. J. EVERS, ’79, ist Vice-President.
FERD. E. KUHN, ’83, 2D Vice-President.
Rev. N. J. STOFFEL, C. S. C., ’76, Secretary.
Prof. JOSEPH A. LYONS, ’62, Treasurer.
Prof. JOHN G. EWING, ’77, Historian.
WILLIAM P. BREEN, ’77, Orator.
GEORGE E. CLARKE, ’83, Alternate.
HAROLD V. HAYES, ’74, Poet.
DENNIS J. HOGAN, ’73, Alternate.
College Societies.
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
---------MH-
RELIGIOUS.
The Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.
This pious Association is affiliated to the Archconfraternity of
the Sacred and Immaculate Heart of Mary, established in the
Church of Our Lady of Victories, in Paris. Its primary object is
to pray for the conversion of sinners and persons in error. It
aims at the mutual edification and personal sanctification of all its
members by regular weekly religious exercises, monthly commu-
nions, and other religious practices. The Archconfraternity is the
oldest society in the University, and recruits its members from
amongst the Catholic students of the Senior and Junior Depart-
ments. It was canonically established at Notre Dame by the
Very Rev. Father Sorin in 1845, and bids fair to continue to be in
the future, as it has been in the past, for the students of Notre
Dame, a source of many blessings from the hands of their tender-
hearted Mother, the Immaculate Mother of God. Number of
members in the Senior Department, 175.
OFFICERS. — BOTH SESSIONS.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Spir. Dir. Bro. Basil, C. S. Organist.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Hon. Dir. Mr. J. B. Meagher, President.
Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., Director. Mr. T. A. Goebel, 1st Vice-President.
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, Hon. President. Mr. P. E. Burke, 2d Vice-President.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C.S.C., ) prr>TnMr. E. P. Melady^ Secretary.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., y	Mr. E. P. Prudhomme, Treasurer. -
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C.S.C., Vocal Inst’r. Mr. S. Campbell. Censor.
94-	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
LITERARY.
St. Aloysius Philodemic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851, (originally under
the name of the St. Aloysius Literary and Historical Society,) is
the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an accurate
knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and debating
society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain facility in
writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., President.
Air. T. A. Goebel, ’89, Vice-President. Mr. V.E. Morrison, ’89, Vice-President.
Mr. Vincent E. Morrison, ’89, Rec. Sec. Mr. William Larkin, ’90, Rec. Sec.
Mr. William Larkin, ’90, Coi' Sec. Mr. M. Dore, ’90, Cor. Sec.
Air. William Morrison, ’90, Treasurer. Air. William Morrison, ’90, Treasurer.
Alessrs. H. P. Brelsford, ’91,)	Messrs. T. A. Goebel, ’99, ) Qtandinp.
D Barrett, >9o,	H. P. Brelsford, ’9x, “g
M. Dore, ’90,	)	*	D. Barrett, ’90,	)
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultivation
of Oratory, Elocution, and the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. AI. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
Air. Robert Newton, ’89, 1st Vice-
President.
Air. John B. Aleagher, ’89, 2d \rice-
President.
Air. D. E. Dwyer, ’89, Rec. Sec.
Air. P. E. Bourke, ’89, Cor. Sec.
Air. J. E. Cusack, ’87, Treasurer.
Mr. W. Akin, ’88, Historian.
Air. W. Larkin, ’90, 1st Censor.
Air. EI. P.- Brelsford. ’91, 2d Censor.
Air. T. A. Goebel, ’89, Librarian.
Air. E. Larkin, ’91, Prompter.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. AI. J. Regan, C. S. C., President,
Air. Tiburtius A. Goebel, ’89, 1st Vice-
President.
Mr. Robert C. Newton, ’89, 2d Vice-
President.
Mr. John B. Meagher, ’89, Rec. Sec.
Mr. P. E. Burke, ’89, Cor. Sec.
Air. D. E. Dwyer, ’89, Treasurer.
Mr. H. P. Brelsford, ’91, Historian.
Mr. Sylvester Hummer, ’91,1st Censor.
Mr. L. J. Herman, ’91, 2d Censor..
Air. J. E. Cusack, ’89, Librarian.
Air. William Akin, ’88, Prompter.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
95
Columbian literary and Dramatic Society.
The Columbian Society was founded March 25, 1875, for the
benefit of the Commercial students. Its object is the cultivation
of Elocution and Oratory.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director. Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., President. Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President.
J. B. Sullivan, 2st Vice-President. J. B. Sullivan, 1st Vice-President.
E.	P. Prudhomme, 2d Vice-President. J. H. Mithen, 2d Vice-President.
J. EI. Mithen, Rec. Secretary.
E. Kehoe, Cor. Secretary.
E. Sawkins, Treasurer.
E. P. Melady, 1st Censor.
W. J. Morrison, 2d Censor.

J. Mattes, Recording Secretary.
F.	Brown, Corresponding Secretary.
II. J. Barnes, Treasurer.
R. Bronson, 1st Censor.
M. J. Howard, 2d Censor.	'
J. Hepburn, Prompter.
E. P. Melady, Sergeant at-Arms.
B.	M. Hughes, Librarian.
C.	F. Cavanaugh, Critic.
JUNIOR DERApjJMEJMJ.
--KM-
RELIGIOUS.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.
The Junior Archconfraternity has the same aims and object as
that of the Senior Department. It recruits its members from
amongst the Catholic students of the Junior Department, and joins
the Senior Archconfraternity in all religious exercises and public
services. Number of members, 130.
OFFICERS. — BOTH SESSIONS.
Rev. A. Granger, CrS. C., Spir. Dir.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Hon. Dir.
Rev. N. J.’ Stoffel, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, Hon. President.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C.S.C., ) Promoter<,
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., )
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, C.S.C., Vocal Inst’r.
Bro. Basil, C. S. C., Organist.
Mr. J. J. McGrath, President.
Mr. F. B. Chute, 1st Vice-President.
Mr. J. J. Fitzgerald, 2d Vice-President.
Mr. J. E. Berry, Secretary.
Mr. M. J. Quinlan, Treasurer.
Mr. John T. McIntosh, Censor.
96
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
LITERARY.
St. Cecilia Philomatliean Society.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at the
same time a Debating, Dramatic, and Musical Association. Its
exercises include public reading, declamations, essays, debates,
dramatic exercises, and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members
—the elite of the Junior department. Many of the plays acted
upon the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary
powers of its members, have been written expressly for them.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. E. Sorix, C. S. C., Hon. Director.
First Session.	Second Session.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Honorary Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Hon. Dir.
Director.	Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Hon. Pres
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Honorary Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C. President
President.	Bro. Lawrence, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Lawrence, C. S. C., Promoter.
W. P. McPhee, 1st Vice-President.
J. J. McGrath, 2d Vice-President.
W. P. Devine, Treasurer.
E. R. Adelsperger, Rec. Secretary.
J. E. Berry, Cor. Secretary.
J. Wright, Historian.
L. J. Scherrer, 1st Censor.
J. J. Reinhard, 2d Censor.
H. Bronson, Sergeant-at-Arms.
W. P. McPhee, 1st Vice-President.
L. J. Scherrer, 2d Vice President.
J. J. McGrath, Treasurer.
J. E. Berry, Rec. Secretary.
T. A. Wilbanks, Cor. Secretary.
F. B. Chute, Historian.
J. L. McIntosh, xst Censor.
H. J. Pecheux 2d Censor.
H. O. Bronson, Librarian.
J. A. Wright, Sergeant-at-Arms.
E. C. Hughes, Marshal.
JMINIJM DEPARTMENT.
-H»<-
RELIGIOUS.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to children
throughout the Christian world to contribute their share towards
the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of heathenism.
The monthly contributions are small, but the aggregate is consid-
erable, while thousands of children are by this means trained'up to
habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Director.
PI. Mooney, President.
C. Connor, Vice President.
F. Webb, Secretary,
J. Gregg, Treasurer.
Willie Connor, Librarian.
C. Connor,-
W. Connor,
S. McGuire,
W. Creedon,
Standard-Bearers.
Monitors.
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded Sept. 29, 1874, by Very Rev. E. Sorir,
Superior-General C. S. C. It is composed of the pupils of the
Minim Department, and has for its object the practice of devotion
to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of piety among
its members, the supplying of the church with the servers required
at Mass, Vespers, and the other Church offices. In 1875, Very
Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many special
Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX. of happy memory.
First Session.
OFFICERS.
Second Session.
Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director. Very Rev. E. Sorin, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. A. Granger, C. S. C., Ass’tDir. Rev. A. Granger, CLS. C., Assis’t Dir.
Bro. Cajetan. C. S. C., President.
PI. Mooney, Promoter.
J. Dempsey, 1st Vice-President.
J. Seery, 2d Vice-President.
V. Kehoe, Secretary.
J. Cudahy, Cor. Secretary.
F. Webb, Treasurer,
J. Kane, Librarian.
F. Gregg, 1 st Censor,
W. Connor, 2d Censor.
J. Dungan, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C., President.
• A. Boyle, Promoter.
J. G. Durand, 1st Vice-President.
A. Clarke, 2d Vice-President.
W. Furthman, Rec. Secretary.
D. Gilkinson, Cor. Secretary.
J. McCarthy, Treasurer.
H. Mooney, Librarian.
C. Connor, 1st Censor.
C. McCarthy, 2d Censor.
James O’Neill, Standard-Bearer.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by the Rev. Thomas E.
Walsh, C. S. C., on Nov. 25, 1877, is the study of Elocution, and
the cultivation of the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Rt. Rev. Joseph Dwexger,	)
Bishop of Ft. Wayne,	(• Hon. Directors.
Very Rev. E. Sorix, Sup. - Gen’l C. S. C., )
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. T E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director, Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. Director.
Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter. Rev. J. O’Connell, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
V. Kehoe, ist Vice President.
B. Bates, 2d Vice-President.
C. Koester, Secretary.
J. Seery, Cor. Secretary.
F. Webb, Treasurer.
J.	Dempsey. Marshal.
K.	Evers, ist Monitor.
G. Dorsey, Librarian.
J. Hagus, 2d Monitor.
C.	Connor, ist Censor.
D.	Quill, 2d Censor.
J. Cudahy, 3d Censor.
R. Webb, 4th Censor.
J. Connolly, Sergeant-at-xkrms.
J. Seery, Charge d’Affaires.
J. Barbour, Standard-Bearer.
Prof. J. F. Edwards, President.
V. Kehoe, ist Vice-President.
J. Cudahy, 2d Vice-President.
B. Bates, Secretary.
H. Mooney Cor. Secretary.
G Dorsey, Treasurer.
F. Webb, Marshal.
E. Lansing, ist Monitor.
J. Kane, 2d Monitor.
F. Roberts, Librarian.
J. Gregg*, ist Censor.
M. Elkin, 2d Censor.
J. Seery, 3d Censor.
G. Elkin, Sergeant-at-Arms.
D. Quill, Charge d’Allaires.
A. Clarke, Standard-Bearer.
The Law Debating Society.
OFFICERS.
Rev. T. E. Walsh. C S. C., Director.
Prof. Wm. Hoynes, President.
E. Chacon, ist Vice-President.
J. S. Hummer, 2d Vice-President.
F. Long, Rec. Secretary.
F. Lane, Cor. Secretary.
R. Pollock, Treasurer.
J. V. O’Donnell, Critic.
Wm. L Tiernan, Sergeant-at-Arms.
v	O
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. William Hoynes, President.
D. E. Dwyer, ist Vice-President.
Geo. H. Craig, 2d Vice-President.
F. Long, Rec. Secretary.
D. Brewer, Cor. Secretary.
B. M. Patterson, Treasurer.
J. Dougherty, Critic.
T. McKeon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
The
Moot Court.
OFFICERS.
Prof. William Hoynes, Judge.
J. S. Hummer, Clerk.
Thomas Brady, Deputy Clerk.
D.	S. Brewer, Prosecuting Atty.
J. V. O’Donnell, Ass’t Pros. Atty.
F. Lane, Sheriff.
Robert O’Hara, Deputy Sheriff.
L. Hermann, ) -r,	,
E.	Blessington, } RcP°’ ccts.
T
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
99
ATHLETIC.
The Hoynes Light Guards.
This battalion has within the past two or three years attained to
a degree of proficiency in military tactics that entitles it to a high
rank among the cadet military organizations of the Northwest. It
is armed with “ three-click ” Springfield rifles of the latest pattern,
and supplied with all the requisite accoutrements of light infantry.
It comprises three companies, and has a total membership of about
125. These companies are composed respectively of Seniors and
Juniors, all of whom are tastefully uniformed, and have a soldierly
appearance and bearing. Their proficiency in the use of arms has
long been a subject of general remark and compliment. They
are taught the maneuvers, manual of arms, and all the ordinary
evolutions described in “Upton’s United States Tactics.” In what
is technically known as the school of the soldier and the school of
the company they are instructed by their captains, lieutenants, and
non-commissioned officers, while in battalion and regimental drill
they come more immediately under the command of the colonel.
Enlistment is altogether voluntary. No student need become a
member unless he desires to do so. However, the authorities of
the University duly encourage such organizations on account of
the salutary physical exercise they afford, the respect for whole-
some discipline they tend to promote, and the manly bearing
they serve to assure and establish.
William Hoynes, Colonel.	J. V. O Donnell, Adjutant.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Chaplain. A. E. Leonard, Sergeant-Major.
Company M.”
J. E. Cusack, Captain.
J. V. O’Donnell, 1st Lt.
E. S. Prudhomme, 2d Lt.
H. C. McAlister, Orderly
Serg’t.
L. Chute, 1 st Sergeant.
S. Campbell, 2d “
R. Bronson, 3d “
Geo. Cook, 4th “
F. Brown, 1st Corporal.
Company ^BP
W. B. Akin, Captain.
Frank Fehr, 1st Lieut.
F. L. Jewett, 2d Lieut.
F. B. Chute, Orderly
Sergeant.
J. J. McGrath, 1st Serg’t.
II. Bronson, 2d	“
J. E. Berry, 3d	“
W. McPhee, 4th	“
G. H. Frei, 1st Corporal.
J. Cunningham, 2d “
W. J. Allen, 3d “
W. Hartmann, 4th “
Company “ CP
A. E. Leonard, Captain.
W. McDonnell, Orderly
Sergeant.
W. Willien, 1st Serg’t.
J. Hesse, 2d	“
W. Morrison, 3d	“
R. J. Case, 4th	“
L. J. Hoerr, 1st Corporal.
C. Scherrer, 2d	“
W. Clendennin, 3d “
G. Weitzel, 4th	“
loo	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Sorin Cadets.
The military organization in the Minim Department is known
by the above title. The cadets are supplied with rifles, made
especially for their use, and all necessary accoutrements. Their
uniform is of a handsome blue, causing the company to present a
most attractive appearance. They are instructed in the manual of
arms and such evolutions as are deemed suitable for boys of their
size and age. They are under the command of Captains Cusack
and Craig, and during the past year the company was composed
of 6o members.
J. Cudahy, Orderly Sergeant.
J. Dempsey, ist Duty Sergeant.
B. Bates, 2d Duty Sergeant.
D.	Quill, 3d Duty Sergeant.
J. E. Cusack, Capt.
II. Mooney, ist Corporal.
M. Elkin, 2d Corporal.
C. Connor, 3d Corporal.
F. Goodman, ^.th Corporal
Lemonnier Boat Olub.
OFFICERS.
Rev. T. E. Walsh, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President and Treasurer.
First Session.
Frank Fehr, Commodore.
G. H. Craig, Rec. Secretary. J. V. O’Donnell, Cor. Secretary.
“Minnehaha^	crews.	“Evangeline?
A. Leonard, Captain and Stroke.
S. Campbell, No. 5.
L. Kehoe, No. 4.
H. Jewett, No. 3.
F. Kelly, No. 2.
P. Wagoner, Bow.
B. Hughes, Coxswrain.
“Montmorency?
E. Sawddns, Stroke.
J. Hepburn, No. 3.
F. Springer, No. 2 and Captain.
E. Prudhomme, Bow.
J. Kelly, Coxswain.
Second
O. Jackson, Stroke.
L. Chute, No. 5.
W. Patterson, No. 4.
F. Jewett, No. 3 and Captain.
R. Bronson, No. 2.
W. Meagher, Bow.
R. New’ton, Coxswain.
u Eosemite?
L. Meagher, Captain and Stroke.
T. Coady, No. 3.
F. McErlain, No. 2.
P. Brownson, Bow.
J. V. O’Donnell, Coxswain.
Session.
J. B. Meagher, Commodore.
George H. Craig, Recording Secretary.
D. E. Dwyer, Corresponding Secretary.
“ Evangeline?	crews.	“ Minnehaha"
T. McKeon, Stroke.
J.	Hepburn, No. 5 and Captain.
A. E. Leonard, No. 4.
C. Youngermann, No. 3.
O. Jackson, Stoke.
J. MCarthy, No. 5.
E.	O’Brien, No. 4.
F.	Pim, No. 3.
io2	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
B. Hughes, No. 2.
F. L. Jewett, Bow.
R. Newton, Coxswain.
F. McErlain, No. 2.
K.	Newton, Bow.
J. Mithen, Coxswa’n and Captain.
‘ 'Montmorency”
T. Coady, Stroke.
S. Campbell, No. 3.
R. Bronson, No. 2.
E. Prudhomme, Bow and Captain.
J. Mithen, Coxswain.
“ FosemiteS
T. McKeon, Stroke and Captain.
J. Hepburn, No. 3.
A. Leonard, No. 2.
C. Youngermann, Bow.
G. Craig, Coxswain.
University Base Ball Association.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Second Session.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C.S.C., President.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C., )
Bro. Paul, C. S. C„ 1 Directors.
Philip Brownson, Secretary.
George II. Craig, Treasurer.
J. B. Meagher, Field Reporter.
G. Cook, } CaPtains Ist Ninea-
J. Cusack, Captain Special Nine.
A. Leonard, ) o
J. Mithen, | Scorers.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., President.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C.,	1	.
-o	e y Directors.
Bro Emmanuel, C. S. C. J
J. V. O’Donnell, Secretary.
G. II. Craig, Treasurer.
J. B. Meagher, Field Reporter.
F. Kelly, Capt. U. R. (Champions.)
E. Melady, Captain U. B.
J. Cusack, Captain University Nine.
D. Brewer, I , . j x—
J. McCarthy, } Captains 2d Nines.
A. Leonard,
F. Brown,
ers.
180 members.
Rugby Foot Ball Association.
OFFICERS.
First Session.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C., Director.
Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C., President.
J. V. O’Donnell, Vice-President.
G. H. Craig, Secretary.
J. Cusack, Treasurer.
F.	Fehr,	1	Caotains
E. Melady, j	Captains.
E. Prudhomme, Capt. ’Varsity Team.
Second Session.
Bro. Paul, C. S. C., Director.
Bro. Marcellinus, C. S. C., President.
J. V. O’Donnell, Vice-President.
G.	H. Craig, Secretaiy.
J. E. Cusack, Treasurer.
E. Coady, I , .
E.	Melady, } Captains. .
F.	Fehr, Captain ’Varsity Eleven.


Seniors’ Campus.
1
Conferring of Degrees.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
Augustin Daly, New York.
George Dering Wolff, Philadelphia.
Charles A. Dana, New York.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
John J. Kleiber, Brownsville, Texas.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on
'	Albert Brown, Brownsville, Texas.
The Degree of Master of Arts in honorem was conferred on
John B. Berteling, South Bend, Ind.
The Degree of Master of Science in honorem was con-
ferred on
Edward McCarthy, Chicago, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Tiburtius A. Goebel, Marietta, Ohio.
Patrick E. Burke, Stillwater, Minn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Robert C. Newton, Little Rock, Ark.
Joseph E. Cusack, Fort Niobrara, Neb.
Vincent E. Morrison, Ft. Madison, Iowa.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
John B. Meagher, Mankato, Minn.
D. Edward Dwyer, Albert Lea, Minn.
io6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws zvas conferred on
Eusebio Chacon, Trinidad, Colo.
W. H. J. Tiernan, Chelsea, Mass.
Henry S. Smith, Tacoma, Wash. Ter.
Daniel C. Brewer, Denver, Colo.
James V. O’Donnell, Chicago, Ill.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Charles F. Dacy, Woodstock, Ill.
John D. Mooney, Hyde Park, Ill.
James L. Galen, Helena, Mont.
Hilary C. McAlister, Columbus, O.
Edward J. Maurus, Seneca, Ill.
Isaac S. Rose, La Grange, Ind.
O. H. Woods, Avon, Ill.
Irving L. Bunker, Kansas City, Mo.
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to
George Knoblauch, Carver, Minn.
John B. McCarthy, St. Paul, Minn.
SPECIAL PRIZE MEDALS.	107
The Quan Gold Medal in the Senior Class
Was Awarded to
Mr. TIBURTIUS A. GOEBEL,
Marietta, Ohio.
The Dwenger Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine
[first course]
Was Awarded to
Mr. LOUIS J. HERMANN,
Evansville, Ind.
The Gold Medal for English Essays,
Presented by Mrs. Mary English, of Columbus, Ohio, was Awarded to
Mr. JOHN B. MEAGHER,
Mankato, Minn.
The Gold Medal
Presented by Mr. George Mason, of Chicago, to the Student having the
greatest number of Honorable Mentions, was awarded to
Mr. EDWARD J. MAURUS,
Seneca, III.
The Gold Medal for General Excellence in Studies,
Presented by Mrs. James Meehan, of Covington, Ky., was awarded to
Mr. LEO J. SCHERRER,
Denver, Colo.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory
Was Awarded to
Mr. HOMER P. BRELSFORD,
Onarga, III.
Class Prize pedals.
[No Class Medal in any course is awarded unless an average of at least
85 per cent for all the classes of the course, as determined by the monthly
written examinations, has been reached. ]
CLASSICAL COURSE.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to William
Larkin, Elkader, Iowa.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
The Gold Medal in the Junior Class was awarded to William
McPhee, Denver, Col.
The Gold Medal in the Freshman Class was awarded to James
Brady, Versailles, Ill.
The McPhee Prizes for the Course, of Elementary Science
were awarded to Henry Crooker, O. H. Woods, and R.
Rorke.
The Rend Medal for Practical Mechanics was awarded to
John Delaney, Newburgh, N. Y.
COMMERCIAL COURSE
The Gold Medal was awarded ex cequo to John D. Mooney,
Chicago, Ill., and Charles F. Dacy, Woodstock, Ill.

SPECIAL COURSES.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine (Second Course)
was awarded to Hilary C. McAlister.
The Gold Medal for Christian.Doctrine (Third Course), pre-
sented by Rev. T. F. Galligan, Chicago, was awarded to Alwin
Ahlrichs.
CLASS PRIZE MEDALS.	109
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in the Junior department
was awarded to John J. Reinhard.
The Barry Gold Medal for Elocution was awarded to Daniel
C. Brewer, Leadville, Col.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in the Junior department, pre-
sented by Mr. Jacob Scherrer, of Denver, Colo., was awarded to
H. Lamar Monarch, Owensboro, Ky.
The Sadlier Gold Medal for English Literature was awarded to
Homer P. Brelsford, Onarga, Ill.
The Gregori Gold Medal for Figure Drawing was awarded to
William Morrison, Fort Madison, Iowa.
The Gregori Silver Medal for Architectural Drawing was award-
ed to Henry L. Jewett, Chicago, Ill.
The Prize presentedvby the Western Electric Company, Chicago,
for Proficiency in Telegraphy, was awarded to George Knob-
lauch, Carver, Minn.	'
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to Leonard
Hoerr, Ohio.
The Prizes for Vocal Music were awarded to Frederick L.
Jewett, Chicago, Ill. ; William Lahey, Niles, Mich. ; Henry
L. Smith, Winona, Mich. ; Aloysius E. O’Flaiierty, Kansas
City, Mo.
The Gold Medal of the Sorin Association was awarded to
John M. J. Cudahy, Chicago, Ill.
The Minim Elocution Gold Medal, presented by Very Rev. E.
Sorin, Sup.-Gen’l C. S. C., was awarded to Benjamin F. Bates,
Denver, Col.
of flonohs.
[The “First Honor” is a Gold Medal, awarded to students who have
followed the courses of the University at least four Sessions, and whose
deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
. SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
FIRST HONOR MEDALS WERE AWARDED TO
Stafford Campbell, O. H. Woods, Eusebio Chacon, Edward Stephenson, Michael J. Howard, James McAuliff, Otto A. Rothert,	James H. Mackey, Clement S. Burger, William Larkin, Thomas H. Coady, John P. Kenney, Hilary C. McAllister. RENEWALS.
Jos. S. Gallardo, Michael Dore, Dennis Barrett, Louis P. Chute,	Francis Fehr, Tiburtius A. Goebel, Ferdinand Long.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
FIRST HONOR MEDALS WERE AWARDED TO
James M. Brady, Henry S. Cauthorn, Lewis N. Davis, John T. Greene, Ellsworth C. Hughes, James L. McIntosh, John J. McGrath, Edward J. McIvers, H. Lamar Monarch, Frederick E. Neef,	Francis B. Peck, James S. Peck, Henry J. Pecheux, Michael Quinlan, John J. Reinhard, Isaac S. Rose, Richard M. Spalding, Sewell T. Collins, Christopher C. Fitzgerald, Alfred Neef. RENEWALS.
Frederick B. Chute, William A. Rowsey,	Leo J. Scherrer, Tanner A. Wilbanks,
AWARDING OF HONORS.
in
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
FIRST HONOR MEDALS WERE AWARDED TO
William J. Connor,
Wade H. T. Durand,
Benjamin F. Bates,
Francis J. Parker.
John M. J. Cudahy.
Charles J. Connor,
John J. Dempsey,
RENEWALS.
Charles S. D. McPhee,
Herbert J. Mooney.
[The “Second Honor” is a Silver Medal, awarded to those students
who have followed the courses of the University at least four sessions,
and whose deportment during that time has given general satisfaction.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A SECOND HONOR MEDAL WAS AWARDED TO
William Lahey.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
SECOND HONOR MEDALS WERE AWARDED TO
Roland A. Chase,
John A. Cunningham,
Frederick C. Prichard,
James C. Bradley,
Samuel Rose,
Charles S. Schillo,
Albert F. Welch,
Arthur J. Devine,
George Elder,
George Frei,
John E. McMahon.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
SECOND HONOR MEDALS WERE AWARDED TO
Joseph M. Hagus,
James J. M. O’Neill,
Charles V. Grant,
Henry J. Oppenheimer,
Jacob Maternes,
Thomas J. Burns,
Francis A. Dempsey,
Pablo Trujillo.
Certificates
[ Certificates are awarded to those students who have followed the
courses of the University at least two sessions, and whose deportment
during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
Alwin Ahlrichs,
Angel L. Alvarez,
James T. Brennan,
Joseph J. Burns,
Patrick H. Coady,
Charles F. Dacy,
John J. Gallagher,
William F. Hayes,
Louis J. Hermann,
John Lesner,
Richard J. McNally,
Aloysius E. O’Flaherty,
William O’Brien,
John G. Schmitz,
Joseph M. Toner,
Harry E. Steiger,
Charles P. McGenty,
Jacobo M. Lozano,
Robert A. O’Hara,
Jesse D. Crooker,
Charles Paquette,
William C. Roberts,
Anthony Karasynski,
E. A. Zeitler.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
Harry J. Aarons,
Earl W. Bates,
Edward M. Baltes,
Patrick H. Bryan,
Sylvester L. Cleary,
Eugene B. Crandall,
Ernest F. Du Brul,
Porter W. Fleming,
Charles S. Fleming,
Adolph Heller,
William F. Hanrahan, Jr.,
Philip Hague,
Otto H. Ibold,
John A King,
Wilbert O. Kutsche,
William F. Maher,
Edward J. Maurus,
Charles Merz,
Frank P. Sheehan,
Charles H. Sullivan,
Lester L. Sutter,
Matthew W. Smith,
George T. Weitzel,
Joseph Talbot,
Paul Populorum,
William B. Hennessy.
CERTIFICATES
MINIM
DEPARTMENT.
Samuel Bruel,
Eugene Dorsey,
Frederick B. Webb,
Robert Webb,
Leon J. Paul,
Isaac Gregg,
. Manuel Elkin,
Eli W. Elkin,
Loy Downing,
August Mattes,
Victor Washburn,
William Crawford,
Maurice Levi,
Arthur AV. Seidensticker,
Edward J. Fanning,
Guy A. Livingston,
Arthur Miller,
Adair Green,
Douglas Goodwillie,
John Marre,
Thomas Finnerty,
William Creedon,
Simms McGuire,
Frank Weaver,
Angelo Marre,
Charles McCarthy,
Francis Goodman,
Arthur Crawford,
Samuel Blake.
	
Premiums
[The students named in the following lists received “Class Premiums”
and “ Honorable Mentions, ” of which a detailed report appeared in the
Scholastic of June 20.J
SENIOR DEPARTMENT.
A. Ahlrichs, A. Adams, I. Bunker, J. Brannick, J. Burns, C. Burger, E.
Blessington, W. Bruggeman, J. Brennan, D. Brewer, E. Brannick, II. Bran-
nick, D. Barret, P. Burke, II. Brelsford, C. Brown, W. Blackman, M. Cassidy,
J. Crooker, J. Cooney, S. Campbell, G. Cooke, J. Cusack, W. Cullen, I. Casey,
D. Cartier, *W. Cartier, G. Cartier, C. Cavanagh, F. Carney, T. Coadv, P.
Coady, L. Chute, W. Campbell, J. Combe, L. Chacon, C. Dacy, M. Dore, J.
Delaney, J. Dougherty, J. Darroch, P. Davis, L. Dunning, G, Eyanson, S.
Fleming, B. Freeman, D. Fisk, J. Fleming, W. Ford, R. Fitzgerald, E. Fack,
F. Forbs, M. Goke, T. Goebel, J. Giblin, J. Gallardo, II. Galin, J. Galin, M.
Garfias, J. Hepburn, P. Houlihan, W. Healy, W. Hayes, W. Ilacket, B.
Hughes, L. Hermann, M. Howard, E. Hoover, W. Hill, S. Hummer, W.
Hermann, C. Hearde, B. Inks, J. Jennings, F. Jewett, N. Knight, J. Kelly,
F. Kelly, J. Kenny, G. Knoblauch, A. Karasynski, G. Kimbal, M. Louisell,
F. Lane, W. Lahey, J. Lesner, J. Lozana, A. Leonard, J. Lappin, F. Long,
L. Long, W. Larkin, G. Long’, II. Murphy, II. McAlister, G. McAlister, E.
Alorton, J. Mackey, J. McAuliff, T. McKeon, V. Morrison, W. Morrison, J.
Meagher, W. Meagher, T. Mithen, H. Murphv, K. Newton, R. Newton, A.
ii4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
H. Pritchard, E. Prudhomme, B. Patterson, L. Pim, C. Paquette, F. Powers,
D. Reedy, M. Reynolds, R. Rourke, W. Roberts, 0. Rothcrt, C. Roberts, R.
Sullivan, J. Sullivan, E. Stephenson, T. Smith, C. Soden, C. Spencer, J. To-
ner, AV. Tiernan, D. Tewksbury, V. Vurpillat, F. Vurpillat, PI. Woods, T.
Wade, J. Welch, C. Youngerman, F. Youngerman.
JUNIOR DEPARTMENT.
E. Adelsperger, J. Allen, W. Allen, H. Aarons, J. Ayer, M. Adler, E.
Adams, G. Anson, E. Berry, E. Baltes, E. W. Bates, J. Bradley, J. Brady, M.
Blumenthal, R. Bovd, W. Baily, H. Bronson, P. Bryan, T. Cleary, S. Cleary,
J. Cunningham, E. Crandall, J. Connors, E. Connors, S. Chiarcoschi, AV.
Covert, R. Case, S. Collins, A. Campbell, II. Cauthorn, R. Clendennin, FA
Chute, B. Cass, E. N. Davis, L. B. Davis, E. DuBrul, A. Devine, L. Demp-
sey, A. Daniels, F. Duffield, II. Darroch, II. Doherty, II. DesGarennes, G.
Elder, J. Flannigan, T. Falvey, P. Fleming, C. Fleming, G. Frei, E. Ferkel,
C. Fitzgerald, J. Fitzgerald, I. Greene, J. Girsch, M. Galland, J. Gappinger,
J. Healy, R. Healy, P. Healy,A. Heller, B. Hesse, L. Hoerr, W. Hannin, E.
Hughes, T. Hanrahan, L. Hollman, W. Hennessy, G. Hahn, E. Hammond,
W. Hartman, O. Ibold, M. Joslyn, AV. Johnson, E. Jewett, T. Johns, J. King,
W. Kutsche, L. Kehoe, F. Kellner, A. Kelly, F. Krembs, G. Lamon, J. Mon-
cada, T. Mahon, E. Maurus, F. Mainzer, A. Mayer, E. Morrison, J. Mooney,
J. Merz, F. Mackey, J. McIntosh, J. McGrath, J. McMahon, E. McIvers, J.
McNulty, W. McPhee, F. Neef, A. Neef, J. Nockcis, A. Nester, G. O’Brien,
J. O’Mara, F. O’Rourke, C. Priestly, P. Populorum, H. Pecheux, F. Pritch-
ard, R Palmer, M. Quinlan, I. Rose, J. Reinhard, E. Roth, C. Ramsey, M.
Rice, F. Schillo, C. Schillo, F. Shyehan, C. Sullivan, R. Spalding, L. Sutter,
L. Scherrer, C. Scherrer, C. Shear, II. Sloan, G. Staples, A. Sullivan, W.
Tetard, F. Thorne, J. Wright, G. Weitzel, A. Welch, F. Wile, J. Walsh, P.
Wood, W. Willien, T. Wilbanks, W. Young.
•	MINIM DEPARTMENT.
F. Ackerman, B. Bates, S. Blake, J. Barbour, S. Bruel, T. Burns, J. Burns,
O. Brown, A. Boyle, C. Blease, IE Connelly, F. Cornell, W. Creedon, A.
Cohn, C. Connor, W. Connor, AV. Crandall, J. Crane, J. Cudahv, W. Craw-
ford, J. Carter, A. Clark, L. Downing, H. Durand, J. Doherty, Jesse Dungan,
James Dungan, E. Dorsey, J. Dempsey, H. Dench, C. Dodson, M. Elkin, E.
Elkin, F. Evers, G. Evers, J. Elder, T. Finnerty, E. Falvev, H. Foster, E.
Fanning, E. Furthman, C. Furthman, AY Furthman, C. Grant, A. Green,
D. Goodwillie, I. Gregg', F. Goodman, F. Gerber, AV. Girardin, D. Gilkison,
J. Gray, II. Hendry, J. Hagus, AV. Hamilton, F. Hill, M. Henneberry, E.
Hedenberg, II. Johns, J. Kane, C. Krollman, R. Kirk, S. Keeler, C. Kaye, C.
Koester, A'. Kehoe, E. Lansing, M. Levi, G. Livingston, H. Londoner, A.
Lonergan, AV. Lee, B. Lehnberg, J. Marre, A. Marre, J. Maternes, H. Marx,
C. McPhee, A. Mattes, F. McDonnell, E. McDaneld, S. McGuire, H. Moo-
ney, G. Mayer, II. Montague, C. McCarthy, J. McCarthy, A. Miller, AV.
Marr, B. Morrison, II. Mestling, E. Mestling, AV. Mosiey AV. Nichols, C.
Nichols, F. Parker, J. O’Neill, II. Oppenheimer, II. Plautz, L. Paul, C. Paul,
K. Powell, D. Quill, F. Roberts, J. Seery, J. Snvder, A. Seidensticker, L.
Stone, Steineman, A. Stange, T. Stafflin/ D. Thornton, P. Trujillo, L. Wil-
son, S. Witkowsky,F. AV ebb. R. Webb, F. AATever, V. Washburne, D. Wil-
cox, AV. Wilson, T. AVatson, W. Waterman, C. Zoehrlaut, G. Zoehrlaut,
Forty-Fifth Jlnnval Commencement
OF THE
Uj4lVE$SITY OF FOT$E DR^E
Tuesday Evening, June 18.
PARTICIPANTS IN THE CLOSING EXERCISES
OF THE EUGLOSSIAN ASSOCIATION.
Messrs. J Burns, R A O’Hara, W Ford, J Toner, D C Brewer, W P
McPhee, M Quinlan, L Monarch, E Berry Jas McIntosh.
Vocal Quartette, - F L Jewett, H Smith, W Lahey, A E O’Flaherty
Duet,	-	-	-	-	-	C Ramsey, W Hackett
Solo and Chorus, -	-	W Lahey, and Quartette
Duet,	F L Jewett and II L Smith
Baritone Solo, “The Raft.”—Pinsute,	-	- II L Smith
Tenor Solo, “Cujus Animam,” Sfalnif Wafer" of Rossini\ F L Jewett
ORATORICAL CONTEST.
Vocal Selection, “The Scout,” — Campoia^ - University Quartette
Oration, “A Martyred Queen”	-	- Homer P Brelsford
” “The Discoverer of America,” - Eusebio Chacon
” “Daniel O’Connell and the Irish People,” Robert C Newton
March for Retiring, -	University Orchestra
u6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Wednesday, June 19.
8 o’clock A M,	- -	-	-	-	Alumni Mass
9 30	”	“ -	Dress Parade by Companies A, B, and C
11	”	_ -	-	-	-	-	Regatta
1	P M,	- -	-	-	-	Alumni Meeting
2	”	Distribution	of Premiums in the Minim Department
2 30	“	-	-	-	-	-	Athletic Sports
5	“	Distribution	of Class Honors in Senior and Junior
		Departments.
7 30	“	- -	Entertainment in Washington Hall, after
		the following Programme :
Overture,	-	- -	-	-	University Orchestra
Poem of the Alumni,	-		-	- Harold V Hayes, Class of ’74
Dramatic Cantata, “ The Christians’ Triumph. ”
Between the Acts, Tower Scene from “ Richard ill.
Richard, ______ S Hummer
King Henry, -	-	-	-	-	L Hermann
Oration of the Alumni, -	- Mi' William P Breen, Class of ’77
Thursday, June 20.
Exercises in Washington Hall, at 8 o’clock A. M.
Quartette, “ Home ! Sweet Home ! ”	.
F L Jewett, II L Smith, W Lahey, A E O’Flaherty
Valedictory,	-	-	-	-	Mr Tiburtius A Goebel
Conferring- of Degrees, Awarding of Honors, Class Medals, etc., etc.
SO^ HAhh.
--HM--
^ORIN HALL is a commodious building recently erected for
the use of advanced students. It is situated a short distance
southwest of the church. Facing east, it is on a line with Science
Hall, from which it is separated by an extensive green sward and
a beautiful grove. It is a three-story-and-basement building, and
presents a very attractive appearance. In its construction special
attention was paid to sanitary conditions, and every apartment and
hall is well lighted and ventilated. During the day sunshine visits
every room in the building. All the recent improvements in archi-
tecture were considered and discriminatingly introduced in con-
structing and completing Sorin Hall and arranging its interior with
reference to the convenience of the inmates. It contains a large
number of rooms for the use of students, besides several apartments
intended for other purposes. Each of the students’ rooms is supplied
with a 16-candle electric light, and is heated by steam in cold
weather. This building has its own furnace and heating apparatus
and its own dynamo or electric-light plant. All its arrangements
are suggestive of the conveniences and comforts of a home.
The basement is divided into a reading-room, where the student
find< all the late magazines, both American and foreign ; a large
apartment designed for recreation purposes at suitable times ; a
room for the furnace, coal, etc. ; also, bath-rooms, toilet-rooms,
and the. like.
On the first floor, at either side of the main entrance, are two
suites of elegant rooms for offices and chambers. The large
apartment at the north end of the building is used as a chapel, and *
here the students assemble morning and evening for prayer. The
Law Department, with its library, lecture-room, moot-court room,
etc., is at the south end.
The second and third floors are uniform in arrangement and
similar in appearance. Here are the rooms that the students
occupy. All of them are regularly numbered and neatly furnish-
ed ; and there is not one of them that does not command an ex-
tended and beautiful view. They serve as chambers for the young
•TIVH NIKOS
SORIN HALL.
119
men at night and study-rooms during the day. Each room has only
one occupant. Thus it is sought to insure a proper and profitable
use of time by all. This same consideration has led the Col-
lege authorities to prohibit the inmates of Sorin Hall from
calling on one another or visiting the rooms of others.
While not at class, nor at meals, nor engaged in taking necessary
recreation upon the campus, students are supposed to be at work
in their rooms, although at suitable times they may meet in the
reading-room or recreation apartment. This building is intended
for earnest and well-disposed students who desire to make the best
possible use of their time ; and the rules prescribed for its
inmates are practically in harmony with the regular standard
of living to which young men of that class seek to con-
form. For these the rules will be found very simple and easy of
observance. For others there can be no relaxation of them. The
penalty for the violation of any of them consists in the forfeiture
by the offender of his room and the privileges of Sorin Hall.
Where the offense is gross the forfeiture is permanent ; but
where relieved by mitigating circumstances, it may be only tem-
porary.
The rules governing students at Sorin Hall are found liberal
enough by all who earnestly desire to work, to be manly and
honorable, to be temperate and industrious, to be pure in speech
and above reproach in conduct. But for such as do not
seek to conform to that standard in the general tenor of their
lives, or do not endeavor to square their actions in accordance with
it, the discipline will soon be found sufficiently stringent to prevent
their remaining as inmates of the building.
The advanced students referred to as entitled to quarters at Sorin
Hall comprise young men of the Senior and Junior years in the
classical, scientific, or any other regular course of a university cur-
riculum. When a student has attained to that rank in educational
proficiency, whether he has studied here or elsewhere, he is entitled
without extra charge to a room and the privileges of Sorin Hall.
There he may remain until he finishes, or as long afterward as he
wishes, should he desire to pursue post-graduate studies. The same
rule applies to students of the Junior or the Senior year, or to
post-graduates, who desire to study law.
i2o	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Sometimes young men of unexceptionable habits — young men
who, though of a lower grade than the Junior year in studies, are
nevertheless models of industry and studiousness — earnestly desire
to have rooms and to share the privileges of Sorin Hall.
A certain number of these may be accommodated upon payment
of $100 yearly. The number who can thus be accommodated
must necessarily be limited, as but comparatively few rooms remain
vacant after provision has been made for all entitled to them under
the prescribed rules.
INDEX.
Board of Trustees............................................        3
Officers of the University.........................................  4
Faculty..............................................................5
Prospectus.................................................10
University of Notre Dame—Main and Ancillary Buildings—Surroundings—Accessibility
—Discipline—General Remarks.
Expenses............................................................  20
Programme of Studies:—
Preparatory Department........................................  21
Collegiate Department—Classical Course..........................27
Elective Studies in Classical Course............................33
Scientific Course...............................................  35
Elective Studies in Scientific Course.............................40
Special English Course............................................42
Law Course........................................................49
Methods of Instruction—Standard Raw Books—Expenses—Course of Study.
Civil Engineering.................................................54
Mechanical Engineering..........................................  55
Commercial Course.............................................    58
Modern Languages.........’...................................60
Miscellaneous................................................65
Minim Department : Prospectus—Expenses...........................74-78
Catalogue of Students.............................................  79
Associated Alumni...................................................92
College Societies...................................................93
Conferring of Degrees..............................................105
Commercial Diplomas—Special Prize Medals—Class Prize Medals—Awarding of Hon-
ors—Certificates—Premiums.
Programme of the Forty-Fifth Annual Commencement Exercises.... 115
Prospectus of the New College Building—“Sorin Hall”.................117
The “Notre Dame Scholastic”......................................  122
St. Mary’s Academy..................................................123
Illustrations :
Bird’s-eye View of Notre Dame.................................1
The New Notre Dame—(Main Building)...........................11
Practical Mechanics in Science Hall..........................57
Science Hall.................................................64
Biological Laboratory......................................  66
Physical Laboratory..........................................67
Academy of Music.............................................73
St. Edward’s Hall..........................................  75
Study Hall (Minims)................................................77
St. Joseph’s Lake.................................................roi
The Seniors’ Campus................................................103	,
Sorin Hall........................................................118
Jhe JNotre Dame Scholastic
is the title of a neat 24-page paper, devoted to the interests of the
students, which is published at the University every week during
Term time. This journal opens a field for young writers, who
might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their talents
to remain inactive.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive and literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry, Notes
on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notices of New Publica-
tions, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has a local
importance for students, their parents, and all who have attended
class at the University in times past, on account of the weekly
summary of events transpiring at Notre Dame, personal notices of
former students, Rolls of Honor, Class Honors, List of Excellence,
etc., which appear in its columns every week. Reports relative to
the arrangement of classes, the promotion of the more talented and
energetic students, etc., also find a place in this paper, and keep
parents and others informed on all that concerns their children and
friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors during the coming year
to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past, and the.
encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
$1.50 PER ANNUM, Postpaid.
Address, THE " NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
St. Many’s Academy.
One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.
IM OW entering upon its 35th year of active educational work,
4 St. Mary’s Academy for Young Ladies has earned the rep-
utation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and success-
ful institutions in the United States. The location is on the divid-
ing ridge of the St. Lawrence and Mississippi river systems, in the
highest and healthiest part of the State.
The Academy buildings—large, well ventilated and commodious,
heated with steam, supplied with hot and cold water, and with fire-
escapes of the latest and best kind—are beautifully situated on an
eminence overlooking the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph
River.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical education
are taught by a Faculty of competent teachers, forty-two in num-
ber. French and German, Plain Sewing, and every variety of
Fancy Needlework are taught without extra charge. Book-Keep-
ing in the regular course ; Phonography and Type-Writing extra.
The Conservatory of Music
is conducted on the plan of the best classical Conservatories of
Europe. Three instrumental lessons and one in theory, with five
in general singing class, weekly, are included in the regular pen-
sion ; extra practice pro rata.
The Art Department
is modelled after the best Art Schools of Europe. In the schools
of Painting and Music, pupils may pursue a special course.
Preparatory and Minim Departments.
Pupils who need primary training, and those of tender age, are
here carefully prepared for the Academic courses.
For Catalogue, containing full information, address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, Indiana.