ANNUAL CATALOGUE
4
...OF THE...
University of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
1894-1895.
"Miitn
mil
mi
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME IND.
Fifty-First
Annual Catalogue
of the
University ot Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
1894-95.
o o o o o o o
PUBLISHED BY TUPS UNIVERSITY.
Tribune Printing Company Press,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.
1895.

TRUSTEES OF THE UNIVERSITY.
3
Board of Trustees.
VERY REV. WILLIAM CORBY, C. b. C.,
President.
REV. DANIEL J. SPILLARD, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
REV. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
BRO. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Officers of the University.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
Vice President and Director of Studies.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. DANIEL J. SPILLARD, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
Brownson Hall.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C. Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.	Bro. GREGORY, C. S. C.
Carroll Hall.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C. Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C. Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
St. Edward’s Hall.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C. Bro. JEROME, C. S. C.
FACULTY.
5
Faculty.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Religion.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
Rev. DANIEL J. SPILLARD, C. S. C.,
Ecclesiastical History.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences, and Curator of the Museum.
Rev. PETER J. FRANCISCUS, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. PETER KLEIN, C. S. C.,
French Language and Literature.
Rev. JOSEPH KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences and German.
6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Rev. JAMES A. BURNS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.„
Rhetoric.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. B.,
Law.
MICHAEL O’DEA, M. S., E. E.,
Applied Electricity.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
History, and Lecturer on Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
MAURICE F. EGAN, A. M., LL. D.,
English Literature.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
(Resident Physician.) Anatomy and Physiology.
GEORGE E. CLARKE, A. M., LL. M.,
Elocution and Phonography.
LAURENCE McGRISKIN, A. M.,
Greek and Mathematics.
FACULTY.
7
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
Rev. WILLIAM MALONEY, C. S. C.,
Commercial Lauu.
Rev. BERNARD ILL, C. S. C.,
Book-Keeping.
Rev. JOSEPH JUST, C. S. C.,
Greek and French.
Rev. MICHAEL DONAHUE, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
English.
Bro. BONIFACE, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
8
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy and Type- Writing.
EDWARD J. MAURUS,
Mathematics.
JOHN D’ARCY McGEE, A. B.,
Latin and Greek Classics.
CHRISTOPHER C. FITZGERALD, C. E.,
English and Mathematics.
FRANK POWERS, B. S.,
Assistant and Demonstrator in Biology.
JAMES H. KIVLAN,
Instructor in Machine Shop.
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C. Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C. Bro. JOSEPH, C. S. C.
Bro. JEROME, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C. Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. LOUIS, C. S. C.
FACULTY.
9
Department of Fine Arts.
Music
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director of Musical Department.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
Bro. GIRARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano, Violin, and Director of Orchestra.
NEWTON A. PRESTON,
Vocal Music, Director of the Band, and Mandolin Orchestra.
Drawing
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Linear, Architectural, and Mechanical Drawing
Athletics
PAUL BEYER
Gymnastics.
IO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Notre Dame University.
Historical.
HE University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of the
Holy Cross; in 1844 it was chartered by the Gen-
eral Assembly of the State of Indiana. It grew
rapidly from a small frontier school to a fairly
equipped college, and at length assumed the pro-
portions of a University. On April 23, 1879, five
of the college buildings were destroyed by fire. The loss
included the library, museums, and scientific apparatus. The
progress of the University, however, was arrested but for a
short time. In September, 1879, some of the colleges had been
rebuilt, and the beginning of the present extended group of
buildings had been made. The new order of things fulfilled a
hope rather than a promise of the old, and the Notre Dame of
to-day, with its equippment, its standard of studies, and its
increasing influence, more than realizes the most sanguine-
expectations even of those who had the firmest belief in the
possibilities of higher education in the West. A brief review
seems not inappropriate.
Material Equipment of the University.
Main Building. This is five stories high; its dimensions are
320x155 feet. The distance from the ground to the electric
light just above the statue surmounting the dome is 207 feet.
This building contains museums, libraries, art galleries, class,
rooms, study halls, dormitories, lavatories, trunk rooms, arm-
ories, etc. The refectories are richly ornamented with mural
paintings, representing many of the most celebrated Ecclesiasti-
PROSPECTUS.
II
cal and Secular buildings in the world, and beautifully illustrat-
ing the progress of architecture. The lavatories are supplied
with hot and cold water, and have all the customary accommo-
dations. The armories contain about 150 stand of arms, with
bayonets, accoutrements, etc. These arms were procured from
the State, for the service of members of the military organiza-
tions. The reception parlors, and offices of the President, Sec-
retaries, and Prefect of Discipline are on the main floor, as are
also the study halls, several of the class-rooms, the telegraph
office, and the student’s office. This floor is of tile and the cor-
ridor is lined with a series of superb mural paintings (the work
of the distinguished Roman artist, Signor Luigi Gregori), which
illustrate the leading events of the life of Columbus, or, more
particularly, such of them as history associates with the dis-
covery of America. Portraits of distinguished ecclesiastics,
including almost all the Cathode Bishops in the United States,
those living as well as those who have gone to their reward, line
the walls of the corridors on the floor above, and it is appropri-
ately called the “Bishops’ Gallery.” The society rooms are on
the same floor, as are also some of the class-rooms; they are
tastefully ornamented with paintings, mural decorations, and
busts of noted personages. Two large dormitories are likewise
on this floor, The Lemonnier Library and Memorial Hall are
on the third floor. Two large dormitories, that correspond in
size and appearance to those below, occupy the rest of the floor.
The music-rooms of the vocal classes and the Department of
Drawing take up the greater part of the fourth floor. The
Lemonnier Library contains 50,000 volumes, besides miscella-
neous objects of interest gathered from all parts of the United
States, and many other countries. Three wide oaken staircases
afford communication between the different floors, from the first
story to the top of the building; and these, supplemented by
exits to the roofs of verandas and porticos, with ample means of
descending safely to the ground, remove all danger of personal
injury in case of fire. But the fullest precautions have been
taken to guard against that peril. With a watchman constantly
on duty, water on each floor and hose at hand, there is abso-
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
lutely no danger of fire. The halls throughout the building are
wide, high, and spacious. The many angles which distinguish
the building, were planned and constructed in accordance with
the prevailing style of architecture at Notre Dame, which is
known as modern Gothic. These angles serve to give strength
and solidity to the entire building, rendering it secure against
the fury of the wind and storm, not to mention the incidental
advantages of good light and perfect ventilation which they
afford. Just east of the Main Building is
Music Hall. This is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and
over 100 in height. The first floor is divided into recreation
and reading rooms, the north end being for the students of Car-
roll Hall and the south for the students of Brownson Hall.
These rooms are supplied with newspapers, periodicals, games
of all kinds, billiard-tables, etc. The dressing rooms of the
Bicycle Club and of the Athletic Association are also on this
floor. The second and third floors at the south end are divided
into music-rooms, and instrumental music is there taught.
The Exhibition Hall occupies the remainder of the building.
In it are given the more formal lectures, as well as concerts and
dramatic entertainments. Fully furnished with the scenes,
accessories and decorations appropriate to such uses and
capable of accommodating 1,200 persons, it ranks among the
largest and most attractive college halls in the country.
Science Hall. This imposing edifice is situated a few steps
south of Music Hall. The dimensions are 104 x 131 feet, and
the height is three stories, or 75 feet. It is divided into two
departments, and supplied with all the agencies requisite to
facilitate the acquisition of a complete knowledge of the sciences.
The laboratories, lecture-rooms, museums, biological department,
engine-rooms, etc., are admirably arranged for the convenience
of studies. The Hall is fully equipped with all necessary
chemicals, preparations, specimens, charts, tools, instruments,
and the innumerable accessories of a great school of science.
The Browson Hall campus or play-ground, a level track contain-
ing about ten acres, lies southeast of it. South of it is the
PROSPECTUS.
Institute of Technology, a large and commodious building
devoted to the use of the students of civil, mechanical and elec-
trical engineering. It is fully equipped with all the appliances
for wood and metal working, and is supplied vith the most
approved forms of forges and cupolas for blacksmithing and
foundry work. The rooms for mechanical drawing, and the
laboratories for special experimental work in engineering, were
specially designed for the purpose for which they are used, and
are complete in all their appointments. Directly south is the
Astronomical Observatory, which is conveniently situated
for astronomical observations and the work of class instruction.
The observatory consists of a main part, with a revolving dome,
an east wing, or transit room, in which is mounted the transit
instrument, and a north wing, or computing room, which con-
tains the smaller instruments and the works of reference for the
use of observers. East of Music Hall, for the accommodation
of the students desiring to take physical exercise when the
weather is unfavorable for out-door sports, stands the
Students’ Play Hall, which measures 160 feet in length
and 45 in width, and is two stories in height. The north half is
for the use of the students of Carroll Hall, whose campus sur-
rounds it, while the south half is set apart for the students of
Brownson Hall. A thoroughly equipped g^masium has recently
been fitted up on the second floor of the Institute of Technology.
Just north of the Play Hall and Music Hall is St. Edward’s
Park, and fronting this, facing south, is
St. Edward’s Hall, a building four stories high, and 155 feet
in length by 150 in width. This is for the exclusive use of pupils
under thirteen years of age. It is entirely separate from the
University, though under the same general management. The
building is new, and lacks none of the appointments suggested by
experience as useful or desirable. It is divided into study-halls,
class-rooms, dormitories, etc. The recreation hall is just east
of it, while farther east and north lies the play-ground. The
pupils are under the immediate direction of competent and exper-
ienced teachers—Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Infirmary adjoins St. Edward’s Hall on the west. In
dimensions it is 200x45 feet, and three stories high. The Gen-
eral Office occupies a portion of this first floor. The rooms on
the floor above are kept in readiness for the reception of stu-
dents who at any time are prevented through illness from
attending classes and discharging their customary duties. The
regular physician of the University, and the Sisters in charge
minister to the sick in all cases.
The Church stands a little west and south of the main build-
ing. It is generally regarded as one of the most beautifully
decorated churches in the country. In size it is 275 x 120 feet,
and the distance from the ground to the apex of the roof is
about 125 feet. It is richly ornamented with paintings and
statuary, and hours may profitably be given to the examination
and study of these and the objects of interest and beauty in
which it abounds. In its tower is the largest bell in the United
States. Besides, there are 32 smaller bells in the tower. These
vary in size and constitute the noted “Chimes of Notre Dame.”
South and west of the church stands
Sorin Hall. The style of the building is what is currently
called mixed Gothic and Roman. The height from ground to
apex is about 70 feet. It has a measurement of 144 feet long
its front, or from north to south, while in depth, or from east
to west, it will measure, when completed, 112 feet. The base-
ment, about two-thirds of which is above the ground level, has
a height of 9 feet from floor to ceiling. Above the basement
the structure rises to the height of three stories. The distance
from the first floor to the ceiling is 15 feet; from the second
floor to the ceiling, 13 feet, and from the third floor to ceiling,
about 12 feet. Two wide and massive staircases afford ample
means of passing readily from floor to floor. The basement
is subdivided into lavatories, bath-rooms, boiler and engine
rooms, etc. The building is heated throughout by an automatic
self-feeding apparatus placed in the basement. On the first
floor are two or more of the principal offices, the chapel, the law
lecture court, moot-court room, law library, society rooms, etc.
PROSPECTUS.
15
A large room in the north part of the building serves as a
chapel, while the law rooms are south of the entrance, with an
east and south exposure. The second and third floors are almost
exclusively appropriated for students’ rooms. The building is
commodious, thoroughly ventilated, and the rooms and corridors
•are well lighted, and comfortably heated at all times.
A regularly established United States post office is situated
on the University grounds, a short distance from the main build-
ing. It is particularly intended for the accommodation of the
University and St. Mary’s Academy, and all mail matter intended
for the students of either institution should be addressed to
Notre Dame, Ind. There are too many buildings at Notre
Dame to receive detailed notice; indeed, so numerous are they,
that f brought together, they would cover at least eight or ten
acres of ground.
Surrounding.
The University is situated about a mile and a half north of
the flourishing city of South Bend, Ind.-, and about eighty miles
east of Chicago. It is surrounded by a fertile and prosperous
farming country. And yet, by reason of its proximity to South
Bend, it combines the conveniences and accomodations of the
city with the salutary isolation, wholesome climate, and natural
beau ies of the country. A broad avenue runs directly south
from the University for a mile or more, and on both sides it is
lined with shade trees. North and west of the University are
two beautiful lakes—St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s. The area of
the former is but a little less than 23 acres. The ground slopes
picturesquely down to the lakes, and beautiful walks along the
shores almost surround them. On the higher ground, above
the walks, and overlooking the lakes, are magnificent groves
of oak, hickory, sycamore and other varieties of hard timber.
St. Joseph’s River, swift of current and tortuous of channel,
sweeps grandly past the University grounds on the west. The
scenery along its steep and timber-lined banks is bold, wild
and romantic.
16
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position almost central with reference
to the most important cities of the Mississippi Valley. The
railroads running directly to South Bend are the Lake Shore &
Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk, the Vandalia, the
Indiana, Illinois and Iowa, and the Michigan Central. The
road last named is connected with South Bend by a lateral line
which runs south from Niles, Mich., and passes through the
University grounds. Omnibuses and other conveyances, by
which visitors can expeditiously reach Notre Dame, may be
found on the arrival of trains at the stations of the roads
indicated.
Discipline.
The aim of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
is to secure for each student that quiet and to promote that men-
tal concentration which are absolutely necessary to a thorough
college course. Although the rules made and enforced with
this intention are more stringent than is usual in American
Colleges, there is nothing required by them to which any earnest
student can reasonably object. Other than earnest students are
out of place in the University. It is supposed that every
student, by the mere act of matriculating, binds himself to
gentlemanly conduct while at Notre Dame. If it be discovered
that he is not worthy of a p:ace on the list of students, the
authorities reserve to themselves the right of dropping his name
from the list.
The manner of life at Notre Dame is that of a large and
well-regulated family. This necessarily involves close contact
on the part of students with one another; consequently the
authorities are obliged, in the interest of each worthy student, #
to enforce the rules governing conduct with uncompromising
firmness. And yet the causes of expulsion are not more numer-
ous than in any well-organized club of gentlemen. There can,
for instance, be no mitigation of the extremest penalty for
flagrant disobedience of authority, the use of intoxicating liquors,
immorality, the habitual use of profane or obscene language,
PROSPECTUS.
17
unauthorized absence from the college limits, etc. In the case of
suspension or expulsion, for such offenses no fees will be
returned.
The students in the various college halls are under the same
rules of discipline. They retire not later than ten, and the
signal for rising is given never later than 6:30. Undue atten-
tion to athletics at the expense of studies is not permitted;
while at the same time, students are advised, expected and
strongly encouraged to take part in healthy out-door sports.
A limited number of contests is permitted with athletic organiza-
tions from the outside. The athletic societies are not permitted
to take part in games outside the college premises, and no one
will be allowed to take part in a game who is not a regularly
matriculated student.
A competent instructor in gymnastics is retained by the Uni-
versity. Special attention is given to the improvement of the
physical condition of the students; experience shows that the
course of study and the discipline at Notre Dame have not
failed to produce sane-minded and physically healthy men.
The military drill is optional, but it is strongly recommended to
promote manly deportment and erect carriage.
While persons of all religious denominations participate in the
privileges of the University, it is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine services at
stated times.
Other regulations, which time has sanctioned as salutary,
may be summarized as follows:
1. Students are required to report at the college immediately
after their arrival at the station. This rule is binding not only
at the beginning of the school year, but at all other times when
leave of absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in the
neighboring city is looked upon as a serious violation of rule.
2. Leave of absence can not be granted to students during term
time except in cases of urgent necessity. There is no vacation at
Easter. 3. No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission of the President or Vice-President, or the
person delegated to represent them. 4. No branch of study

I 8	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
shall be taken up or discontinued without permission of the
Director of Studies. 5. The use of tobacco is strictly forbid-
den, except to such students of Brownson or Sorin Hall as have
received from their parents written permission to use it. 6. The
use of intoxicating liquors is absolutely prohibited under all
circumstances. 7. To guard against clandestine and improper
correspondence, the President reserves the right to supervise
letters to and from students. 8. Students are not permitted to
receive boxes containing other eatables than fruit. All boxes
are subject to inspection before they are delivered to the student.
General Remarks.
A University course in education implies that the student
has had the benefit of elevating associations, as well as of care-
ful instruction. The desire of the authorities is to surround the
students with professors and companions of the highest char-
acter, and their aim is to include no pupil on the roll of the
University who would not be received into the home of the most
scrupulous Christian parent. The University is a town in itself,
and the student runs no risk of suffering from dissipations of
outside society. The environment, natural, artistic, human, is
of the most elevating character. He must work, for there are
no distractions permitted while he is at work; the system of
discipline is the result of deep consideration of the best means
of developing conscientiousness, firmness of purpose, habits of
patience and self-reliance, in a -word of giving the student the
best tools for acquiring the highest success in life..
Members of the Junior and Senior classes of any of the
Collegiate Courses have rooms in Sorin Hall; other students are
assigned according to age to Brownson, Carrol or St. Edward’s
Hall. Young men of 17 and upward are assigned to Brownson
Hall. Their dormitories, study hall, refectory, laboratory, etc.,
are in the east half of the main University building. The stu-
dents of Carroll Hall, whose ages range from 13 to 17, occupy
the west portion of it. The pupils of St. Edward’s Hall have a
building exclusively to themselves. The different Halls to
which students are thus assigned are entirely separate from one
PROSPECTUS.
19
another. Their inmates are seldom brought together except in
certain collegiate classes. The pupils of St. Edward’s Hall
have no direct intercourse with the students of the other depart-
ments.
There are ample accommodations for six hundred resident
students at the University. The ventilation is exceptionally
good. Scrupulous cleanliness prevails everywhere. The fare is
abundant in quantity, varied in quality, and always wholesome.
The class-rooms are large and well lighted, as are also the rooms
used by the literary, debating, dramatic and other societies.
The societies devoted more particularly to the cultivation of
music and the drama have always been very popular, and many
of their members have reached a higher degree of proficiency
than mere amateurs are commonly expected to attain. This is
largely due to the fact that they are aided and stimulated by the
sedulous co-operation and encouragement of professors well
qualified to give instruction in music and the drama. Then,
too, there are societies especially intended to promote the inter-
ests of religion and lead to a thorough knowledge of Christian
doctrine. By means of essays and debates, great readiness in
speaking, as well as felicity in the expression of thought, is
attained by many members of these societies.
The students of the different departments are under the
supervision of their respective prefects and professors; and while
they enjoy all the freedom compatible with the requirements of
good order, they are firmly held to an observance of the cour-
tesies expected of gentlemen in their intercourse with one
another. But there is very little occasion for the exercise of rigor
in this respect, as the students come almost invariably from
homes in which they have been brought up under the salutary
influence of careful and proper training. They have been taught
to observe the manners that distinguish upright and honorable
young men; and it is an important aim of the discipline in force
at Notre Dame to make them in all respects thorough, accom-
plished and carefully educated gentlemen—gentlemen whose
lives will be useful and honorable, and tend to reflect credit upon
their parents, themselves and the University.
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Expenses.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance)......$ 10 00
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern
Languages included), Lodging, Washing and
Mending of Linens, per Session of Nearly Ten
Months...............................................300	00
Payable in Advance, as follows:
On entrance in September$200 00.... | January 15th...$100	00-
The charge of $300 covers the tuition free, which is fixed at
$100 per scholatic year. No portion of this latter sum will be
returned when students are dismissed before the close of the-
year or leave for any other cause than ill health.
Students who enter after September 20 are charged pro rata
from the date of their entrance until July 1, 1896.
Special Studies.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves-
to the regular studies of the course they have entered, any of
the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per scholastic
year. The charges will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music — Les-
sons on Piano and Use of
Instrument.............$45	00
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,
Flute, Cornet, Clarionet
and Mandolin............. 25	00
Use of each. Instrument.. 5 00
Vocal Culture............ 30	00
Elocution—Special Course.. 10 00
Use of Library............ 2	00
Artistic Drawing......... 20	00
Telegraphy............... 20	00
Typewriting—Full Course
(Twenty-one Lessons).... 5 00
Phonography.............. 20	00
Practical Mechanics.......$30 00*
Use of Philosophical and
Chemical Apparatus...... 20 00
Use of Apparatus in Miner-
alogical Laboratory......... 5 00
Use of Apparatus in Botan-
ical Laborotory............ 5	00'
Use of Apparatus in Biolog-
ical Laboratory........... 10	00
Applied Electricity....... 40	00
Special Lecture and Concert
Course..................... 2	00
Gymnastics — Full Course
(Twenty Lessons)........... 5 00-
GRADUATION FEES.
2 I
Graduation Fees.
(Payable before Commencement.)
Classical Course, $10; Course in Science, $10; Special Course
•of English, $10; Law Course, $10; Civil Engineering Course,
$10; Commercial Course, $5.
Remarks.
Remittances should be made by draft, P. 0. money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable; and exchange will
be charged in all cases.
Term bills and all other accounts are subject to sight draft if
not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Brownson and Sorin Halls are closed during the months of July
and August. Students of Carr oil Hall who spend the Summer
Vacation at the University are charged, extra, $50.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the
University, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesi-
astical state can be received at special rates. Fuller informa-
tion can be obtained by addressing the President.
The year ’95-’96 will open on Tuesday, September 3d.
22
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Programme of Studies.
The year is divided into two terms. The first term begins
in September and continues until Christmas. The second term
begins in January and ends during the last week of June. An
examination is held at the close of each term.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the Classical
or English Courses, or to the Courses in Science and Engineering. Students
who have completed the course receive a diploma admitting them to
membership in the Freshman Class.
FIRST YEAR PREPARATORY.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Grammar—As far as the end of regular conjugations.—Ewing.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
3.	Historia Sacra.
II	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
III	.—HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY.
1.	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special-Geography of the
United States, including Outline of Physical Geography.—Saltiera
2.	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Sacllier.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.	23
IV	.— MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive). Normal Union Arithmetic.—
Brooks.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	—Grammar — First Session’s work reviewed. Etymology Completed—
General Rules of Syntax.—Ewing.
2.	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3.	Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
4.	Historia Sacra,
II	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar—Etymology Completed—General Rules of Syntax.—Harney.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
III	.—HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY.
1.	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.—Sadlier.
2.	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa, including
Outline of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers (exclu-
sive). Normal Union Arithmetic.—Brooks.
SECOND YEAR PREPARATORY.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.—Harkness.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to Latin
Composition.—Harkness.
II	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harney.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Normal Union
Arith m etic. —Brooks.
24
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
Students preparing for the Classical Course will in this term begin the
study of Greek. Those preparing for the Course in English, will begin the
study of German; and those preparing for the Courses in Science will begin
the study of either French or German. The scheme of work in French
and German will be found under the Course of Modern Languages. That
in Greek is as follows:
1.	Grammar—From the beginning to the verb.— Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Beginner’s Greek Book. — White.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
2.	Exercises—Second Part Completed—Introduction to Latin Composi-
tion. —Ha rkness.
3.	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
IL—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.—Harvey.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Percentage to Involution—Normal Union Arithme-
tic.—Brooks.
2.	Algebra (begun)—To Fractional Equations—School Algebra.—
Wentworth.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
Students preparing for the Classical Course will continue Greek,
as follows:
1.	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Beginner’s Greek Book.—White.
3.	Jacob’s Greek Reader.—Casserly. Selections by the Teacher.
4.	Gospel of St. John—Selections by the Teacher.
The students preparing for English, will continue German; those pre-
paring for Science will continue French or German.
THIRD YEAR PREPARATORY.
. First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Cornelius Nepos—Five Lives.
2.	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition—Harkness.
3.	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT.
25
II.—ENGLISH.
1.	Composition.—Grammar reviewed—Sentence Structure.
2.	Lecturers on Hill’s Elements of Rhetoric.
3.	Letter Writing—Weekly Themes.
4.	Required Readings.
HI.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Algebra—Through Fractional Equations to Quadratics (exclusive)—
School Algebra.— Wentworth.
2.	Geometry—First three books.—Wentworth.
IV.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
For students preparing for Classical Course, Greek, as follows:
1.	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, First Greek Book.—Spencer's Arnold.
3.	Anabasis—First Book.
For students in English, German; and those in Science, French or
German.
V.—HISTORY.
Students preparing for Science or Engineering, will take—
1.	Modern History—From the Invasion of the Barbarians to the end of
the Crusades.—Fredet.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Caesar—First and Second Books.
2.	Exercises—Third Part—Introduction to Latin Composition Completed.
Harkness.
3.	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
II.—ENGLISH.
1.	Composition—Sentence Structure.
2.	Hill’s Elements of Rhetoric.
3.	Letter Writing—Daily Themes.
4.	Required Readings.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Algebra.—Radicals Reviewed—Quadratics to Logarithms (exclusive),
College Algebra.—Wentworth.
2.	Geometry—Book IV to Conic Sections.—Wentworth.
26
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
For students preparing for Classical Course, Greek, as follows:
1.	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—From the 25th to the 51st Exercise—First Greek Book.—
Spencer'1 s Arnold.
3.	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
For students in English, German; for those in Science, French or
German.
V.—HISTORY.
Students preparing for Science or Engineering, will take:
1.	Modern History—From the end of Crusades to the present day.—Fredet.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a strict
examination in all the studies of the three Preparatory years that may be
required for their Course, unless their proficiency is already known to the
Faculty.
Collegiate Department
Classical Course.
Course of English.
Courses in Science.
28
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Classical Course.
Before entering the Freshman Year a thorough written examination
is required bearing upon all the branches of the Preparatory Course which
are as follows:
Latin—Translation of Caesar into the vernacular and of short English
sentences into Latin.—Grammar Complete.
Greek—Translation of simple phrases into Greek and translation of
Anabasis with parsing.—Grammar Syntax.
English—Composition, letter writing and simple narrative.
History—American and Ancient History.
Mathematics—Arithmetic and Algebra completed.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Sallust—Catiline or Jugurtha.
2.	Ovid—Metamorphoses.
3.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
IL—GREEK.
1.	Grammar—Syntax.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
3.	Xenophon—Memorabilia—First two Books.
HL—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—First Part.
2.	Oral Exercises on Prose Selections.
3.	Essay writing on Familiar Topics.
IV.—HISTORY.
1.	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Geometry—First Three Books.—Wentworth.
Second Term.
,	I.—LATIN.
1.	Virgil—Selections from Bucolics and Georgies.
2.	Cicero—Orations against Catiline.
3,	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
29
II.—GREEK.
1.	Grammar—Completed and Reviewed.
2.	Xenophon—Cyropaedia—First Book.
3.	St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
5. Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—Completed and Reviewed.
2.	Oral Exercises on Selections in Poetry.
3.	Essay-writing on Familiar Topics.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1.	Modern History Completed.—Fredet.
V	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Geometry—Fourth Book to Conic Sections.— Wentworth.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Virgil—JEneid.
2.	Cicero—Orations.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
4.	Prosody—First Part.—Gaxserly.
II	.—GREEK.
1.	Homer—Iliad—First and Sixth Books.
2.	St. Gregory—Machabees.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Exercises on the Rules of Rhetoric.
2.	Lectures on English Literature.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Botany.
V.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History.
2.	Mythology.
Second Term.
I	.—LATIN.
1.	Horace—Odes and Epodes.
2.	Cicero—De Senectute.
3.	Practical Exercises in Prose and Verse.
4.	Prosody—Second Part.— Gasserly.
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IL-GREEK
1.	Homer—Iliad—Sixth Book and Cursory Reading of entire work.
2.	Thucydides—First Book.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
L Lectures on English Literature.
2.	Shakespeare—Study of the Principal Plays.
3.	Essays.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1. Elementary Botany.
V.—HISTORY.
Greek and Roman History.
N. B.—Every student must pass a thorough examination before being
admitted into the Junior Year.
JUNIOR TEAK.
First Term.
L— LATIN
1.	Livy—First Book.
2.	Horace—Ars Poetica and Satires.
3.	Composition—Original Themes.
4.	Elements of Roman Literature.
IL-GREEK.
1.	Demosthenes—De Corona.
2.	Sophocles—(Edipus Tyrannus.
3.	Practical Exercises.
4.	Elements of Greek Literature.
III.—ENGLISH.
1,	Principles of Literary Criticism.
2.	Lectures on American Literature.
3.	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
4.	Narrative and Descriptive Composition.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
31
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
Logic and General Metaphysics.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Chemistry.
Second Term.
L—LATIN.
L Tacitus—Agricola and Germania.
2.	Terence—Andria.
3.	Short Compositions in Prose and Verse.
4.	Elements of Roman Literature Completed.
IL—GREEK.
1.	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2.	Cursory Reading of Homer’s Odyssey.
3.	Short Prose Compositions.
4.	Elements of Greek Literature.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Principles of Literary Criticism.
2.	Lectures on American Literature.
3.	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
4.	Expository and Argumentative Compositions.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1. Cosmology, Anthropology and Theodicy.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1. Elementary Physics.
SENIOR YEAR.
First Term.
L
2.
3.
4.
Plautus )
Quintillian f
With Historical, Philological and Literary ..Explanations.
Original Compositions.
Latin Literature and Criticism.
IL—GREEK.
1.	Plato—Apology and Crito.
2.	Euripides—Medea or Iphigenia in Aulis.
3.	Pindar—Selections.
4.	History of Greek Literature.
32
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.	—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Lectures on Natural Law and General Ethics.
2.	Debates and Dissertations.
IV.
1.	Philosophy of History.
V.
1.	Descriptive Astronomy.
N. B.—Every student is expected to present at least two Essays during
the term.
Second Term.
I	.-LATIN.
1.	Cicero—De Officiis	)With Historical, Philological and
2.	Lucretius—De Natura Rerum J Literary Explanations.
3.	Original Discourses.
4.	Latin Literature and Comparative Criticism.
II	.—GREEK.
1.	Bible—Reading at sight.
2.	Sophocles—Philoctetes or Antigone.
3.	Aristophanes—“Clouds” or “Frogs.”
4.	History of Greek Literature.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Special Ethics.—Sociology and History of Ancient and Modern Phil-
osophy.
2.	Debates and Dissertations.
IV	.
1.	Descriptive Astronomy.
V	.
1.	Political Economy—Manual of Political Economy.— Walker.
N. B.—During the term every student is required to write two Essays-
and two Orations, and also to practice public speaking.
ENGLISH COURSE.
33
English Course.
It is unnecessary to state the reasons why careful training in
the art of using the English language, both in speaking and
writing, is absolutely necessary. No man ignorant of the literary
masterpieces of his own language, or unable to use it with cor-
rectness, force and grace, is liberally educated. The Faculty
of the University have spared no pains to make the Special
English Course as thorough as possible.
The course extends over a period of four years, and those who
have completed the prescribed studies and passed the examina-
tions satisfactorily, receive the degree of Bachelor of Letters.
The degree is conferred only on those who, besides giving
evidence ©f proficiency in the Classics and Science, have also
given proof of ability to apply the principles of composition and
shown an acquaintance with the writings of the best authors in
English and American literature.
The appended scheme of the course explains itself; it is only
necessary to emphasize the following points:
[1]	From the beginning of the course to the encl, special attention will be
paid to paragraphing, editorial and essay writing. Themes will be
read and criticised in the author’s presence.
[2]	Facilities are afforded for a training in journalism by the publication,
weekly, of the Notre Name Scholastic, a twenty-four page paper, de-
voted to the interests of the students, the columns of which are open
to their contributions. Every student of the course is expected, after
the expiration of the first year, to contribute to the Scholastic at
least two articles each term.
[4]	Students are required to be familiar with the masterpieces of the lead-
ing English and American authors.
[4]	A graduation thesis will be required of every student: this must show,
besides grace of style, a satisfactory treatment of the theme selected.
34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Requirements for Entrance Into the English Course.
The following studies are required of all students entering
the English Course: t
Latin—The work of the preparatory years as required for
entrance into the classical course.
English—The work of the preparatory years as required for
entrance into the Classical Course.
German—The rudiments of German grammar. Ability to
translate at sight easy German prose into English, and easy
English passages into German.
Algebra—The entire subject as far as Logarithms, as given
in Wentworth's College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra,
or similar text-books.
Geometry—Plane and Solid as given in Wentworth, Chau-
venet or Newcomb.
Students must further be prepared to pass an examination
in Arithmetic, English Grammar, Orthography, General Geog-
raphy Political and Physical, and the History of the United
States, unless satisfactory evidence is given of their proficiency
in these branches.
Students are required to pass two examinations,—one before
entering the Freshman Year, another before taking up the
J unior classes.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
First Term.
I.— ENGLISH.
Figures and Qualities of Style.
Study of Selections in prose.
Narrative and Descriptive Themes.
Lectures on Hill’s “Principles of Rhetoric.”
Required Readings.
II.—LANGUAGES.	’
Latin. )	. _r , T
French, f See course 111 Modern Languages.
III	.—HISTORY.
Modern History—From the Invasion of the Barbarians to the end of
the Crusades.—Fredet.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
1.
2.
1.
ENGLISH COURSE.
35
IV	.—SCIENCES.
1. Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Readings in Egan’s “Primer of English Literature.
2.	Study of metrical composition.
3.	Analysis of selections in poetry.
4.	Baily themes.
5.	Required Readings.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	Modern History completed.—Fredet.
IV	.—ELOCUTION.
SOPHOMORE YE AR,
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	English Literature from Beowulf to Chaucer. Studies in the Canter
bury Tales with philological and metrical analysis. Selections from
More’s Utopia, Bacon’s Advancement of Learning, Milton’s Lycidas,
L’Allegro and II Penseroso, and parts of Paradise Lost; Hamlet,
Macbeth, King Lear and the Merchant of Venice. Study of dramat
ists contemporary with Shakespere; Elizabethan lyrists.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
HI.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History.
2.	Mythology.
IV.—SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Botany.
2.	Elemetary Chemistry.
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	American Literature, Evangeline, Webster’s Speeches, and selections
from Brownson’s “American Republic.”
2.	Lectures on models of style.
3.	Essays and Orations.	’
II	.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History—To the Invasion of the Barbarians.
2.	Mythology.
IV	.—SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Physics.
2.	Astronomy.
JUNIOR YEAR.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Elements of Literary Criticism.
2.	English Literature. Studies in the classical period. Themes on the
growth of the Saxon influence in English Literature: Newman and
Tennyson.
3.	Critical study of standard prose authors.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	History of England.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1.	Logic and Cosmology.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Elements of Literary Criticism. Herbert Spencer and Aristotle’s
“Poetics.”	■
2.	Lectures on the more remarkable authors and literary epochs.
3.	Special studies in the art of expression.
ENGLISH COURSE.
37
II.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French,.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	History of England.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1. Psychology and Theodicy.
SENIOR YEAR.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on comparative literature.
2.	Analysis of style. De Quincey, Newman, Daniel Webster and Ruskin.
3.	Oratorical composition.
4.	Lectures on the literature of the Nineteenth Century.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Political Economy.— Walker.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1.	Moral Philosophy.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on living authors.
2.	Study of special influences.
3.	Conferences.
II	.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Constitutional and political history of the United States.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1. Moral Philosophy.
38
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
General Science Course.
The Course in General Science is calculated to afford, together
with a liberal education, such an acquaintance with the methods
and facts of modern science as will best enable the student to
fit himself, either for further study of a technical or professional
kind, or for the activities of business life. The Natural and
Physical sciences constitute the primary studies of the Course.
Grouped about these, are those studies in English, Mathematics,
and the Modern Languages, which experience has shown to be
necessary, both for the intelligent pursuit of science, and for the
attainment of the object of the Course.
Candidates for the Freshman Class must be prepared to stand
an examination in Arithmetic, English Grammar, Orthography,
U. S. History and Geography, unless satisfactory assurances of
their proficiency in these branches are given. In addition, they
must pass an examination in the following:
Latin and English—Same as in entrance requirements for
Freshman Class, Classical Course.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, as given in works like those of
Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb.	-
Algebra—The whole subject, as far as Logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra,
or similar text books.
Modern History—The outlines of Modern History, from the
downfall of the Roman Empire to the present time.
French or German—The rudiments of French or German
Grammar. Ability to translate at sight easy French or German
prose into English, and easy English passages into French or
German. A half course in one of these languages is requisite for
entrance. A full four years’ course, to be begun in the Fresh-
man Year, if not before, is prescribed in the other.
Equivalents will be accepted. A student deficient in one of
these entrance requirements may be admitted to the Course, but
on the condition of making up the deficiency during the Fresh-
man Year.
GENERAL SCIENCE COURSE.	39
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every student
during each of the Sophomore and Junior Years.
The scientific work of the Senior Year is elective. Advanced
courses may be elected in any one of the following branches of
science: Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, Engi-
neering, Mechanics.
Every candidate for a degree, in the Course of General Science,
is required to submit, at least six weeks before the final exami-
nations, a written thesis upon some subject connected with the
elective work of the Senior Year. The subject chosen must
have the approval of the professor in the course elected. The
thesis should not contain less than six thousand words, and
must be satisfactory in matter, style, and form.
Students who have completed the required courses, passed
the final examinations, and presented a. satisfactory thesis, will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
First Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Human Anatomy—Physiology and Hygiene.
Microscopy—Microscopical Technology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Work.*
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
Algebra (completed)—Logarithms, Series, and Theory of Equations.
IV	.—ENGLISH.
Rhetoric—Sentence Structure—Figures of Speech.
V	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.—The same as in First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
VI	.—DRAWING.
Free-Hand Drawing and Lettering.
40
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Second Term.
I	.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.
Demonstration in the Biological Laboratory.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work. *
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
Trigonometry—The Entire Subject.
IV	.—ENGLISH.
Rhetoric—Study of Metrical Composition—Required Readings.
V	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.
VI	.—DRAWING.
Mechanical Drawing. -
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
First Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Botany—Organography, Histology, and General Classification of Plants.
Demonstration in the Biological Laboratory.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
Analytic Geometry.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.
V	.—DRAWING.
Mechanical Drawing and Tinting.
Second Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.
Demonstration in the Biological Laboratory.
* Provided for those who do not offer these as entrance requirements.
GENERAL SCIENCE COURSE.
41
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
Analytic Geometry.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.
V	.—DRAWING.
Mechanical Drawing and Sketching.	■
JUNIOR YEAR.
----------- 4
First Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
General Descriptive Physics—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.	.
Qualitative Chemical Analysis.
III	.—MATHEMATICS,
Calculus—The Entire Subject of Differential Calculus.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.
Second Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
Blowpipe Analysis and Metallurgy.
Geology—Lectures, Laboratory and Field Work.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
General Descriptive Physics—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
Calculus—The Entire Subject of Integral Calculus.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.
42
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SENIOR YEAR.
First Term.
I.—ELECTIVE SCIENCE.
Advanced Courses in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, Engi-
neeringr or Mechanics.
IL—MATHEMATICS.
Astronomy—As far as Eclipses.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.	■
Logic and General Metaphysics.—Lectures.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.
Second Term.
I	.—ELECTIVE SCIENCE.
Advanced Courses in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, Engi-
neering, or Mechanics.
II	.—MATHEMATICS.
Astronomy—Concluded.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
Special Metaphysics—Lectures.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
French or German.
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
43
School of Civil Engineering.
The Course of instruction in Civil Engineering, (carefully
prepared and presented in the following programme) is designed
to give the student, not only a thorough theoretical knowledge
of the various branches of Engineering, but at the same time
to illustrate so fully, by experimental work, the subjects theo-
retically considered in the class room, as to enable the graduate
to enter at once intelligently upon the duties of his profession,
either in the office or in some of the responsible positions super-
intending the construction and operation of public works.
Instruction is given throughout the Course by means of text-
books, lectures, and practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
field. Practical problems, bearing directly upon the subject-
matter discussed in the class-room, are prepared by the instruc-
tors, and solutions required from the student, thus exemplifying
in the best manner possible the principles studied and learned,
and teaching their application to practical engineering questions.
The following is a general outline of the subjects considered
and work done during the four-years necessary to complete the
Course and to receive the degree of Civil Engineering:
Surveying.— The course in Plane Surveying is given by
means of text-book and recitations, supplemented by practical
work in the field. The use and adjustments of the instruments
are first fully explained. The students go into the field during
the spring months, when weather permits, handle and adjust
the instruments, and practice the principal operations comprised
in land, topographical, railroad and city surveying. In the
drawing room, the work done in the field is platted, and maps
carefully prepared. In the second year is given a course,
44
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
twenty weeks, five hours each week, in higher surveying, level-
ing and geodesy, including a continuation of the practical appli-
cations in tlie field. All that pertains to the measurement of
base lines, necessary for extensive surveys, and geodetic work,
including problems relating to the figure of the earth, are dis-
cussed and thoroughly examined.
Railroad Engineering.—Instruction in Railroad Engineering
comprises a study in the class room of the various curves, turn-
outs and crossings, necessary in railroad location; also problems
relating to the computation of earthwork, excavation and
embankment, by the prismoidal and other formulae, elevation
of the outer rail, and all that pertains to railway construction,
equipment and management are carefully considered. In the
field the students make the usual preliminary survey prepara-
tory for the most favorable location for a railroad. A route is
selected and a line located on the ground in a position and of
sufficient length to include an application of the problems dis-
cussed in the class room. The usual cross section leveling is
done; maps, profiles, and plans are prepared; calculations of the
necessary excavations and embankments are made, and esti-
mates of cost of construction worked out by the student from
data obtained in the field.
Sanitary Engineering.—The course in Sanitary Engineer-
ing treats of drainage, sewerage, construction of sewers, ventila-
tion of dwellings, etc. Instruction is given both by text book
and lectures. The course is intended to prepare the student to
intelligently provide for the safety of the health of communities,
by proper drainage and disposal of sewerage, and to prepare
plans for the construction of sewers and all works pertaining to
drainage and water supply.
Analytic Mechanics.—This course covers the principles of
statics, work and energy, moment of inertia, effects of friction,
and the mathematical investigations necessary to determine the
action of forces on solids, liquids and gases.
Mechanics of Engineering.—The course in Mechanics of
Engineering and Resistance of Materials comprises a study of
the strength and elasticity of the materials used in engineering
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
45
structures. The theory of torsion, shearing forces, flexure of
beams and columns under the action of perpendicular and oblique
forces, simple and continuous girders, the effects of moving
loads on structures, and the theory of arches, are carefully
examined and discussed. Both analytical and graphical methods
are used, and results compared. The student is taught by the
most approved methods, how to design and proportion the
various parts that enter into engineering structures. The
proportioning of beams, columns, roofs, arches, foundations,
piers, retaining walls, and the like, are studied in this course.
Bridges and Roofs.—This study embraces an account of
the different forms of these structures in wood, stone and iron,
and the methods of analyzing and determining the strains to
which they are subjected and the proportioning of their parts
with a view to economy of material and expense.
Hydraulics.—In this study will be considered the theoretical
laws that apply to liquids at rest and in motion. The flow of
water through pipes, orifices, channels, over weirs, frictional
resistances, determining velocity of currents, are some of the
subjects considered.
Graphical Statics.—This course comprises a full study of
the graphical analysis of the strains in roof and bridge trusses,
and arches. The work is illustrated by the solution of many
• practical problems. In stereotomy, problems relating to stone-
cutting are studied and worked out, wherein the principles of
descriptive geometry are applied, and the work in detail neces-
sary for the construction of stone structures, such as arches,
piers, wing-walls, etc., is fully explained.
Astronomy.—During the last year the students are given a
course in theoretical and practical astronomy, including a
study of the methods of determining latitude, longitude, the
meridian time, calculation of eclipses, as also the theory of
astronomical instruments, planetary perturbations, etc.
Drawing.—A full and thorough course is given in mechani-
cal and topographical drawing, tinting, tracing, lettering and
46
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
blue-printing sufficient to enable the student taking the course
to make, without further preparation, drawings, maps and pro-
files of any proposed work.	•
Instruments.—The school is fully equipped with all the
instruments necessary for effective work in the different branches
of field engineering. Among these instruments may be men-
tioned engineering transits, wye levels, plane-table, rods, tapes,
chains, etc. The physical and chemical laboratories are fully
provided with all the instruments and appliances necessary for
full and complete courses in Physics and Chemistry.
Written examinations are held at the close of each term on
the whole subject matter studied during the term, and the
results entered on the records of the Faculty. Should a stu-
dent fail to obtain the required average for promotion, he may
ask, after a reasonable preparation, for a second examination, in
order that he may enter upon the work of the next term. If
still unsuccessful, he will be required to review the work until
his proficiency entitles him to promotion.
Any student found neglecting his work and not applying
himself diligently to his studies will be suspended from the
course by the Faculty as soon as the delinquency is ascertained.
The following are the conditions requisite to enter the
Freshman Class: The candidate must pass examination in
plane and solid Geometry as given in the works of Chauvenet,
Newcomb, Wentworth or an equivalent in other authors. Alge-
bra,—the whole subject as far as logarithms, as given in Went-
worth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra, or an
equivalent in the advanced works of other authors.
The requirements in English and Latin are the same as for
the Freshman Class, Classical Course.
Modern History.—The Outlines of Modern History from
the Downfall of the Roman Empire to the present time.
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
47
FRESHMAN YEAR.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Algebra—(Completed)—Logarithms, Series, and Theory of Equations.
Trigonometry—The Entire Subject.
Analytic Geometry.
II	.—ENGLISH.
Rhetoric—The same as for the First Term, Freshman Year, Classical
Course.
III	.—LANGUAGE.
French—The same as the First Term, First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
Mechanical Drawing.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Surveying—The Entire Subject of Land, Topographical and Under-
ground Surveying. Recitations and Field Work.
Analytic Geometry.
II	.—ENGLISH.	'
Rhetoric—The same as for the Second Term, Freshman Year, Classical
Course.
III	.—LANGUAGE.
French—The same as the Second Term, First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
%
Mechanical Drawing, Free-Hand Drawing, and Lettering.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
First Term.
L—MATHEMATICS.
Calculus—The Entire Subject of Differential Calculus. '
Descriptive Geometry—Orthographic Projections, Spherical Projec
tions, Shades and Shadows, Perspective and Isometric Projections.
Railroad Engineering—Recitations and Field Work.
48
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Work
III	.—LANGUAGE.
French—The same as the First Term, Second Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
Topographical Drawing and Tinting.
Free-Hand Drawing and Lettering.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Calculus—The Entire Subject of Integral Calculus.
Advanced Surveying.
Geodesy.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
HI.—LANGUAGE.
French—The same as the Second Term, Second Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
Topographical Drawing—From notes taken on Survey; Tinting; Free-
Hand Drawing and Lettering.
V	.—ENGINEERING
Theory of Railroad Location.
One essay is required from each student the First Term, one essay and
one oration the Second Term. The essays and oration must have the
approval of the Professor of Rhetoric.
JUNTOK YEAR.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Analytic Mechanics.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Descriptive Physics.—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
CIVIL ENGINEERING.	49
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Botany.
Mineralogy.—Crystallography, Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals, Descriptive Mineralogy, Classification.
IV	.—LANGUAGE.
French.—The same as the First Term, Third Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
V	.—DRAWING.
Mechanical Drawing, Tinting, Tracing, and Blue Printing.
•	VI.—FIELD ENGINEERING.
Running tangents; locating sample, compound, and reversed curves,
problems in change of location.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Mechanics of . Engineering.—Elasticity, Strength and Resistance of
Materials; Action of Forces, Perpendicular and Oblique, on Simple and
Continuous Girders.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Descriptive Physics.—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
HI.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
Botany.
Dynamical Geology.
IV	.—LANGUAGE.
French.—The same as the Second Term, Third Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
V	.—DRAWING.
Mechanical Drawing, Tinting, Tracing, and Blue Printing.
VI	.—ENGINEERING.
Railroad Engineering, Leveling, Cross Sectioning, Contouring and
Topography.
Four essays, two each term, on some engineering topic assigned by the
Professor of Civil Engineering, are required from each student during the
Junior Year. Essays are subject to the approval of the Professors of Rhetoric
and Civil Engineering. The time at which the essays are to be presented
is fixed by the Director of Studies.
50	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SENIOR YEAR.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Mechanics of Engineering—Hydraulics. Flow of water through pipes,
orifices, over weirs, velocity in channels; Theory and Design of Masonry
Dams. Pneumatics.
Civil Engineering—Theory of Structures.
Stereotomy and Theory of the Arch.
Astronomy—As far as Eclipses.
IL—MENTAL SCIENCE.
Logic.
HL—DRAWING.
Working Drawings of Bridges, Arches and other Structures.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
Civil Engineering—Theory of Structures.
Graphical Analysis.
Theory of the Construction of Bridges and Roofs.
Sanitary Engineering and Public Hygiene.
Astronomy—Concluded.
IL—MENTAL SCIENCE.
Logic.
III.—DRAWING.
Working Drawings of Engineering Structures.
THESIS WORK.
A Thesis (not less than ten thousand words) is required in the
Senior Year as a condition of graduation. The subject of the Thesis must
be one requiring original study and investigation, and must be submitted
to the Professor of Civil Engineering for approval at the opening term of
the Senior YTear. It must be read and defended by the student before the
Faculty of Engineering and at a time fixed by the Director of Studies.
Should the thesis not receive the indorsement of the Faculty, the degree
will be withheld until the presentation of a satisfactory thesis.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
51
Course of Biological Science.
This course leads to the Degree of “Bachelor of Science in
Biology.” The University has provided this special course for
students who desire to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the study of
medicine or veterinary science, or with a view to teaching, or
otherwise engaging in biological research.
Entrance Requirements.—1. Latin Grammar completed and
reading of Caesar, with translation of easy English sentences into
Latin. 2. English Grammar completed. 3. English Compo-
sition (one year’s course. ) 4. Arithmetic completed. 5. Alge-
bra to quadratics inclusive. 6. Geometry; plane and solid
completed. 7. Modern History completed. 8. U. S. History,
g. French or German equal to two years of the Course in the
University; i. e., ability to write and translate easy prose.
From the programme of studies laid down, it may be seen
that during the first two years the student is required to devote
his time to acquiring a knowledge of the elements of biological ■
science, as well as a thorough knowledge of Chemistry.	’
During the last two years he is led deeper into the study
of both the organic and inorganic worlds, and at the same
time is required to apply his knowledge. During these two
years the student is urged not merely to repeat the experiments
and observations made by others, but every facility and encour-
agement is given him to devote himself to original investigation.
The students in this course are also required to prepare an
essay on some biological subject during the first term of
the Junior Year,and a monograph during the second term of
the same year. In the Senior Year they must prepare a
graduation thesis of not less than 6,000 words. Both the
52
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
monograph and the thesis must be accompanied with original
drawings. No student will be allowed to graduate before he
has fulfilled these conditions.
Students not preparing themselves for the study of medicine
may substitute for the advanced courses in Anatomy and Physi-
ology equivalents from any other Course, either Mathematics,
Physics, or English Literature. Finally, it is hardly necessary
to add that all the various laboratories are well supplied with
the apparatus necessary for an extended course in Biology, and
that few schools of science offer their students such freedom in
the use of apparatus and laboratory accommodations.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Course in Human Anatomy and Physiology.
Elements of Microscopical Technology and of Human Histology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Course in Chemistry. Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
III	.—ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Rhetoric—Sentence Structure—Figures of Speech.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
V	.—DRAWING.
Free-Hand Drawing.
Second Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Course in Zoology—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
Elements of Microscopical Technology and of Animal Histology.
III.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Course in Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
53
III	.—ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
Rhetoric—Study of Metrical Composition—Required Readings.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
V	.—DRAWING.
Free-Hand Drawing.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
Elementary Course in Botany and work in Botanical Laboratory.
Advanced Microscopical Technology.
Elementary Vegetable Histology.
Cytology—Lectures and demonstrations in Biological Laboratory.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE,
German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
IV	.—DRAWING.
Free-Hand Drawing.
One short Essay on subject selected by Professor in Biology.
Second Term.
I—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
General Biology—Study of Types of Animals and Plants.
Elementary Course in Botany—Vegetable Morphology and Plant
Analysis.
Microchemistry and Elementary Vegetable Histology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
Elementary Organic Chemistry.
54
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
IV	.—DRAWING.
Free-Hand Drawing.
Two short Essays on subjects selected by Professor in Biology.
JUNIOR YEAR.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
Advanced Course in Zoology—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Qualitative Chemical Analysis.
Mineralogy—Classification of Minerals and Laboratory Work.
III.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
One Essay of not less than 1,000 words, and satisfactory in matter, style
and form.
Second Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
Advanced Course in Zoology—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates with Special Work in Mammalian
Anatomy.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
Quantitative Chemical Analysis.
Geology and Palaeontology.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
Monograph on Subject selected in Zoology or Botany of not less than
2,000 words and illustrated by original drawings.
BIOLOGICAL SCIENCF.
55
SENIOR YEAR.
First Term.
L— BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
Advanced Course in Human Anatomy—Work in Dissecting Room.
Advanced Human Physiology.
Advanced Course in Human Histology.
Advanced Course in Botany—Structure and Classification of Cryptogams.
Bacteriology—Lectures and Practical Work.
II	.—SANITARY SCIENCE.	.
Lectures on Health and Public Hygiene.
III	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
Logic.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
Second Term.
I	.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
Advanced Course in Human Physiology.
Advanced Course in Botany—Structure and Classification of Phanero-
gams, Plant Analysis.
Advanced Course in Vegetable Histology.
Comparative Embryology—Study of development of Chick.
Photo-Micrography.
II	.—SANITARY SCIENCE.
Lectures on Health and Public Hygiene.
Elements of Materia Medica. (Optional.)
III	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
General Metaphysics and Psychology.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
Graduation Thesis must be handed in before the 1st of June containing
not less than 6,000 words, and must be illustrated by original pen drawings.
56
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Commercial Course.
This course can be completed in two years. It includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United States
history, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-keeping, Com-
mercial Law — in other words all the branches of a complete
business education.
When the character and needs of the country—especially of
the great West in which we live—are considered, this course
will appear the most practical, and one of the most important
that an educational institution can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to take a
complete College course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enrol themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan
of study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such
studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The train-
ing resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost
benefit to the student.
The commercial course at Notre Dame has always received
the most careful attention from the officers and the Commercial
Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the
graduates of this course a more complete business training than
can be obtained in any purely commercial college. Believing
that a business education includes something more than a mere
knowledge of Book-keeping, and that a good education, cannot
be obtained in a few weeks, the authorities have extended this
course over two years — the shortest time in which studies
necessarily used in business life can be mastered. Should a
pupil desire during this period to pursue any other studies in
which he may be interested, and for which he has time, he will
have liberty to do so. General History and Linear Drawing are
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
57
especially recommended to commercial students. They also
have the opportunity of attending an elementary course of the
Physical and Natural Sciences. Many commercial students
find it also to their advantage to take up the study of German or
French, for which there are the amplest facilities. A talented
and studious young man may thus in the course of two years
find himself in the possession of a most valuable practical educa-
tion, which will fit him to take his place in the front rank of
educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR
Botli Terms
1.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Year Preparatory
of Classical Course.
2.	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
3.	Geography—The amount included in both Terms of Collegiate Prepar
atory Course.—Sadlier.
4.	United States History—The amount included in both Terms of Colle-
giate Preparatory Course.—Sadlier,
5.	Reading and Orthography.
6.	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR
First Term
1.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Term of Second
Year Preparatory of Classical Course.
2.	Composition.
3.	Orthography.
4.	Book-keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Second Term.
1.	Arithmetic — Written and Mental — (Completed) — Same as in Second
Term of Second Year Preparatory.
2.	Composition.	"
3.	Orthography.
4.	Book-keeping — Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.
•5. Commercial Law.
7. Penmanship.
Optional Studies. — Phonography, Telegraphy, Type-Writ-
ing, General History and Linear Drawing.
The routine of study in the course of Book-keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:
Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by
Double Entry; ist Series embracing the Buying and Selling of
Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, on Account of
Others; 3d Series, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Ac-
count; 4th Series, Importing and Exporting on Private Account,
on Account of Others, and on Account of Ourselves and Others
in Company; 5th Series, Receiving and Forwarding Merchan-
dise, the Management and Settlement of Executors’ Accounts,
Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accept-
ing and Paying Bills of Exchange, Banking — Private and Joint
Stock—Steamboating, Railroading, Retailing by Double Entry,
Farming, Mechanics’Accounts. Saturdays are devoted to Com-
mercial Law. Particular attention is paid to the explanation of
the Law of Negotiable Paper.
MODERN LANGUAGES.
59
Modern Languages.
German.
FIRST YEAR.
First Term.
1.	First German Book—Rudiments of the German Language.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Exercises in Reading, Penmanship and Orthography.
Second Term.
1.	First German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Exercise in Reading and Written Translations.
SECOND YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Second German Book.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	First German Reader.—Ahn-Henn.
3.	Written Exercises.
Second Term.
1.	Second German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	First German Reader.—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
3.	Written Exercises.
THIRD YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Third German Book—Seventy-five exercises.—Ahn-Henn
2.	Fables and Tales.—Lessing-Gellert.
3.	German Grammar—Part First.—Lange.
4.	Written Exercises—Selected.
Second Term.
1.	Third German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Fables and Tales—Part Second.—Lessing-G-ellert.
3.	German Grammar—Part Second.—Lange.
4.	Written Exercises—Selected.
FOURTH YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Fourth German Book.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Schiller’s William Tell—Three Acts.—Whitney.
3.	German Composition—Part First—Lange.
4.	Selections from Schiller’s Lyrical Poems.—Turner.
6o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Second Term.
1.	Fourth. German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Schiller’s William Tell—Completed.—Whitney.
3.	German Composition—Part Second.—Lange.
4.	Introduction to German Literature.
N. B.—In the first two years tHe English, and in the last two
the German language, is employed as the medium of instruction.
French.
FIRST YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Progressive French Course—Part First.—Fasnacht.
2.	Progressive French Reader—Part First.—Fasnacht.
3.	Orthography.
Second Term.
1.	Elementary Grammar.—Fasnacht.
2.	Progressive French Reader—To the End.—Fasnacht.
3.	Exercises in Grammar.
SECOND YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Synthetic French Grammar.—Fasnacht.
2.	La Fontaine’s Select Fables.—Moriarty.
3.	Translation, Composition and Conversation.
Second Term.
1.	Synthetic French Grammar.—Fasnacht.
2.	Sandeau’s Mademoiselle de la Seiglier.—TFanw.
3.	Fortier’s Sept Grands Auteurs du XIX® Seicle.
4.	History of French Literature—Lectures.
5.	Exercises in Grammar, Composition and Idioms.
THIRD YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Grammaire Francaise.—Noel et Cltapsal.
2.	Litterature Classique.—Lectures.	•
3.	Discours sur le style.—Buffon.	*
4.	Telemaque.—Fasquelle.
Second Term.
1.	Grammaire Francaise.—Noel et Chapsal.
2.	Characters.—La Bruy ere.
3.	Lamartine’s Meditations.—Carme.
4.	Litterature Classique—Lectures.
5.	Exercises m Composition and Idioms.
N. B.—The Third Year’s Course is conducted chiefly in French.
MISCELLANEOUS.
61
Miscellaneous.
The Department of Physical and Natural Sciences.
Notre Dame has always given special attention to the culti-
vation of the Physical and Natural Sciences, but during the past
few years extra efforts have been made in this direction, with a
view of affording to her students all the facilities and advantages
that may be found in the best equipped scientific schools. A
large and commodious building, in the Romanesque style, known
as Science Hall,” has been erected for this purpose, and it is
the intention of the authorities to make it as perfect in all its
appointments as any similar institution in the country. It is
one hundred and thirty-one feet long by one hundred and four
feet deep, and proportionally high. There are upwards of
twenty-five spacious, well lighted and ventilated rooms in the
building, nearly all of which are designed either as lecture rooms
or laboratories for the various branches of experimental science.
The building has been carefully planned for the purposes to
which it is appropriated, and embodies in its constructruction all
the improvements and conveniences to be found in the most
approved scientific structures of this country and Europe.
Special efforts have been made to render the building con-
venient for both the professor and the student.
The laboratories, lecture-rooms, and cabinets are so con-
nected with one another, and with the grand apartments set aside
for the museum, that specimens and apparatus are always at
hand when desired, and where they can be used. The students
of Natural History have their specimens systematically arranged
in rooms adjoining their laboratories, whilst the students of
Chemistry and Physics have their cabinets conveniently near,
and at the same time, independent of each other, owing to the
peculiar plan of the building. The various classes can enter
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the rooms and laboratories without interfering in any way with
one another, and can continue their studies and experiments
without interruption. The general principles of science are
taught by lectures, and these are supplemented by practical
work in the various laboratories.
In Chemistry and Physics the necessary apparatus is at the
disposal of the student, and he is expected to verify, by obser-
vation and experiment, what has not been experimentally illus-
trated in the lectures he has attended.
In all these departments, as well as in those of Physics and
Chemistry, special stress will be laid on practical work and a
student’s proficiency will be estimated by his record of observa-
tion and experiment in the laboratory and workshop.
o In the study of Botany, Zoology, and Physiology, each
student is provided with a microscope and the necessary acces-
sories, and most of his time is spent in microscopic study, under
the direction of the Professor.
In Geology and Mineralogy the system is the same. The
student commences work in the laboratory at once, and thus
early becomes acquainted with the various minerals, rocks,
fossils, etc. The blowpipe, microscope, polariscope and
clinometer are in constant use to verify what has been learned
in the lecture room, and to fix it on the memory.
In the Department of Mechanical Engineering there are fully
equipped workshops, for wood and metals. Steam engines and
dynamo-electric generators, and motors of various types and sizes
furnish the power required, and afford the student special facilities
in making experiments concerning the various forms of energy.
A Photographic Laboratory is also fitted up in the building,
where the student is enabled to learn, practically and in a short
time, the art of modern Photography, and thus prepare himself
for professional work in the studio.
Rooms have likewise been set aside for Assaying and Metal-
lurgy, and it is the purpose of those in charge to leave nothing
undone to make the work in this department compare favorably
with that accomplished in the others.
MISCELLANEOUS.
63
Additions of apparatus, specimens, and books for reference
are constantly being made to the various departments, and no
effort will be spared to make “ Science Hall” a recognized centre
of thorough work in genuine practical science.
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre
Dame to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of
which is so necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German language—the classes of which are so numer-
ously attended—has been taught by four instructors during the
present scholastic year. The number of students attending the
German classes is becoming greater every year. The study of
French is recommended to all students of the Collegiate Course.
The Course of Spanish will receive special attention in the future,
and other modern languages may be taught when required.
Telegraphy and Type-Writing.
Telegraphy invites the special attention of the students of
the commercial and scientific courses; and a knowledge of Type-
Writing, which can be acquired in a short time, is useful and
valuable for all.
For the Telegraphic Department a special room is provided
and equipped with standard line instruments, including a com-
plete Wheatstone bridge set for electrical measurement. In-
struction is given by an experienced, practical operator. Each
student receives individual attention and is urged to make as
rapid progress as his ability allows. The text-book used is
Abnethy’s “Commercial and Railway Telegraphy.”
In the Type-Writing Department the machines in use are
new Remington’s with the latest improvements. Thorough
instruction is given in the manipulation and care of the machine,
in the correct forms of business letters, law work, essays and
general writing.
Phonography, or Short-hand,
Is of very great assistance to those in the higher classes, enabling
its possessor to take verbatim notes of lectures, etc. It is
adaptable to the English, French, German or Spanish languages.
64	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
With a good English education it is a profession in itself, and
one not likely to be overcrowed for years to come. First-class
stenographers and typewriters are always sure of employment,
and pupils in both branches here find every facility to fit them
for the highest grades of practical work.
Phonography and Type-Writing have of late come into
general use in legal and commercial work—in the court, the law
office, and the counting-room, in business houses, banks, insur-
ance and railroad offices, etc.,— and, for first-class stenographers
especially, the demand exceeds the supply. A knowledge of
these useful arts will therefore prove a strong recommendation
for confidential and lucrative positions.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre
Dame in the facilities afforded to students for acquiring profi-
ciency in elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises
are practical, and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety.
These exercises are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is peculiarly
adapted for the purpose, being conveniently situated, large, and
elegantly furnished. The exercises constitute an important part
in the studies of young men who strive to cultivate, with suc-
cess, literature, oratory, and the dramatic art. The approved
methods of stimulating and developing the natural elocutionary
powers are called into requisition as occasion seems to warrant.
To this end, the drama receives a due share of attention; from
time to time an appropriate tragedy or comedy is rendered by
students, on the stage of Washington Hall, with all the customary
accessories and appointment used in connection with perform-
ances. Four public exhibitions are given during the year, and
public literary exercises are held seven times during the same
period. An oratorical contest is one of the notable features-
marking the close of the year. For the purpose of encouraging
and stimulating students to put forth their best efforts, premiums
and gold medals are offered to those who most distinguish
themselves. When all these things are duly considered, there-
MISCELLANEOUS.
65
need be no hesitation in repeating that “no educational institu-
tion in the country surpasses Notre Dame in the facilities offered
to students for acquiring proficiency in elocution.”
Lecture and Concert Course.
Prominent among the educational advantages, enjoyed by the
students of the University, is the course of public lectures and
concerts, which supplement the regular class work.
The University is careful to secure only the best speakers
and musical attractions and in the past it has been uniformly
successful in keeping up to the highest standard of excellence.
The names of some of the men who have addressed the students
during the past year will show better than anything else the
educational importance of this department. Among them were
Archbishop Ireland, Right Rev. John L. Spalding, Right Rev.
J. Keane, Hon. Wm. Onahan and Rev. J. F. Nugent. The
New York Philharmonic Club, The Ovide Musin Concert Co.,
The Gottschalk Lyric School and the various musical clubs of
the University gave concerts at stated intervals.
It is the aim of those in charge of the course to secure the
services of the leading thinkers and educators as well as the
most distinguished artists of the day.
Drawing and Painting.
The University, which is becoming every year more widely
and favorably known as an art center, enjoys ample facilities for
imparting instruction in these branches. It possesses a large
number of models, a fine studio, and able and zealous teachers.
Music.
The department is complete in all its appointments. It has
able Professors and is divided into classes on the regular Con-
servatory system. An Orchestra of twenty pieces, and a Brass
Band of twenty-six instruments, are some of the leading features
of the Instrumental Music Department.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and
which has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students
66
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
during the past few years, will receive even more careful atten-
tion in future, and it is hoped that this branch -will become every
year more popular.
Reading-Rooms.
The lower floor of Music Hall is divided into large and neatly
furnished Reading Rooms, for the benefit of the students of
Brownson and Carroll Halls. These reading rooms are sup-
plied with books and periodicals from the library, and students
have access to them during the hours of recreation.
The JLemonnier Library
Continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers over 50,000 volumes. A reading room has been opened
in connection with the library, in which the leading periodicals
of Europe and America are to be found on file. The members
of the Library Association desire to give their Alma Mater a
collection of books that can stand comparison with those pos-
sessed by any other educational establishment in the United
States; therefore they call on the friends of the University to
assist them by donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals, and
manuscripts. All contributions should be addressed to the
Librarian of the Lemonnier Library, Notre Dame University,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
67
Minim Department.
For the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen
there has been established a Department to which the most
scrupulous attention has always been paid by the College author-
ities; it is known as the Minim Department, and it has always
been one of the greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as
well as to all persons visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elemen-
tary branches of an English education is here imparted, together
with a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French, and German.
Vocal Music and Drawing form no extra charge. The pupils of
this department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under
whose maternal care they pass nearly the entire day.
Discipline.
The following is the order of the day: Rising at half-past
six, toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short
time given for exercises on the Campus; half-past seven, study;
half-past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to
twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-past-
one, study; half-past three, recreation and lunch; half-past six,
supper and recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it
may be seen that while the Minims devote never less than six
hours a day to study, they are never more than two hours in
succession in the class-room. The recreation and exercise in the
fresh air, between each two hours of study, unbend the mind
and prepare the boys to return to their classes refreshed and
ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the hours
of recreation, as well as in the class-room and study hall. The
presence, however, of the Prefects is far from being a restraint
on the amusement of the boys; for while it is the duty of the
Prefects to insist that their young charges shall always keep
within the limits of the strictest propriety, they, at the same
time, take part in all sports, organize games, and do everything
in their power to foster a love for healthful exercise. The play
68	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
grounds consist of a fine, level, five-acre field, well supplied
with turning poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all
other necessary gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make
good use of them can best be seen from their healthy, happy
appearance, which invariably attracts the notice of visitors.
Connected with the play ground is a brick play-hall, 160 feet long,
heated by steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the
clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and convenience
of the Minims. Baths are taken every Saturday. Underclothing
is changed regularly twice a week. Great care is taken that the boys
be neatly dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the season.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim Department; that of
the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object
to supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Associa-
tion, which has been established with a view to give the pupils a
start, as early as posible, in Elocution. The Society is presided
over by one of the Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to
draw out the talent of those interesting young orators. Meetings
are held once a week, after school hours. These meetings are a
source of pleasure as well as of profit. The members prepare
original compositions, deliver declamations, are trained to
debate, etc. Only the best behaved and more advanced in
studies are admitted to membership. To encourage this young
Literary Society a Gold Medal is annually awarded at Com-
mencement for Elocution to the most deserving member.
General Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much
milder than that which is suited to students more advanced in
age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in
charge endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by
appealing to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose
conduct and application to studies are satisfactory appear under
the heads of Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic, a
paper published weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name
MINIM DEPARTMENT.	69
mentioned in these rolls is found to be as great a reward for the
deserving pupil, as its non-appearance is a punishment for the
undeserving.
Then, again, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to those whose deportment has been unexception-
able during that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim
immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape
his conduct with a view to receiving an “Honor.” The greatest
care is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and
to inculcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort is
made to foster respect and affection for parents, to whom they
. are expected to write, at least, once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording
ample accommodations for over one hundred pupils, is devoted
to their use. It is four stories in height, one hundred and fifty
feet long, and forty-five feet wide; heated by steam, supplied
throughout with the Edison incandescent electric light, and
provided with hot and cold water. The ceilings in the Study
Hall, Class Rooms, and sleeping apartment are fifteen feet high.
The windows are large and numerous, affording abundant light
and ventilation. The Study Hall commands a charming view
from each of its eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated
with statuary, pictures, choice plants, beautiful flower baskets,
etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims derive from studying in
this bright, cheerful hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by
coming into contact with objects so refining. Fronting the
building is a handsome park, which, with its sparkling fountain,
rare trees and flowers, adds not a little to the beauty of St.
Edward’s Hall, as well as to the happiness of its inmates.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and
others, who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that, while the Minims have every possible advantage to
aid them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a
most happy home where they enjoy the same ease and freedom
that they would enjoy under the care of their mothers.
7°
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Minim Department.
Expenses.
Matriculation Fee, (payable on first entrance) $ 10 00
Board, Tuition, etc., per Session of Ten Months, = 250 00
The above rates are payable in advance as follows:
On entrance1 in September....................$150	00
January 15th......... ....................... 100	00
Extras, optional.
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons, and
the use of Instrument in this Department is $25.00; Violin,
$15.00.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer Vacation
Months are Charged, $40.
Accounts are subject to Sight Draft, without notice, if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Each pupil on entering this department should have 6 shirts,
4 pairs of drawers, 4 night shirts, 12 pocket handkerchiefs, 6
pairs of stockings, 6 towels, 2 hats or caps, 2 pairs of shoes, 2
suits of clothes for winter, 2 suits for summer, 1 overcoat,
toilet articles, etc.
SORIN HALL.
71
Sorin Hall.
SORIN HALL is a commodious building recently erected for
the use of advanced students. It is situated a short dis-
tance southwest of the church. Facing east, it is on a line with
Science Hall, from which it is separated by an extensive green
sward and a beautiful grove. It is a three-story and basement
building, and presents a very attractive appearance. In its con-
struction special attention was paid to sanitary conditions, and
every apartment and hall is well lighted and ventilated. During
the day sunshine visits every room in the building. All the
recent improvements in architecture were considered and dis-
criminatingly introduced in constructing and completing Sorin
Hall and arranging its interior with reference to the convenience
of the inmates. It contains a large number of rooms for the use
of students, besides several apartments intended for other pur-
poses Each of the student’s rooms is supplied with a 16-candle
electric light, and heated by steam in cold weather. This build-
ing has its own furnace and heating apparatus and its own
dynamo or electric-light plant. All its arrangements are sug-
gestive of the conveniences and comforts of a home.
The basement is divided into a reading-room, where the
student finds all the late magazines, both American and foreign;
a large apartment designed for recreation purposes at suitable
times, bath-rooms, etc.
On the first floor, at either side of the main entrance, are two
suites of elegant rooms for offices and chambers. The large
apartment at the north end of the building is used as a chapel,
and here the students assemble morning and evening for prayer.
The Law Department, with its library, lecture-room, moot-
court room, etc., is at the south end.
The second and third floors are uniform in arrangement and
similar in appearance. Here are the rooms that the students
occupy. All of them are regularly numbered and neatly
furnished; and there is not one of them that does not command
an extended and beautiful view. They serve as chambers for
the young men at night and as study rooms during the day.
72
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Each room has but one occupant. Thus it is sought to insure a
proper and valuable use of time by all. This same considera-
tion has led the College authorities to prohibit the inmates of
Sorin Hall from calling on one another or visiting the rooms of
others. While not at class, nor at meals, nor engaged in taking
necessary recreation upon the campus, students are supposed to
be at work in their rooms, although at suitable times they may
meet in the reading room or recreation apartment. This build-
ing is intended for earnest and well-disposed students who desire
to make the best possible use of their time; and the rules pre-
scribed for its inmates are practically in harmony with the regu-
lar standard of living to which young men of that class seek to
conform. For these the rules will be found very simple and
easy of observance. For others there can be no relaxation of
them. The penalty for the violation of any of them consists in
the forfeiture by the offender of his room and the privileges of
Sorin Hall. Where the offence is gross the forfeiture is perma-
nent; but where relieved by mitigating circumstances, it may be
only temporary.	>
The rules governing students at Sorin Hall are found liberal
enough by all who earnestly desire to work, to be manly and
honorable, to be temperate and industrious, to be pure in speech
and above reproach in conduct. But for such as do not seek to
conform to that standard in the general tenor of their lives, or
do not endeavor to square their actions in accordance with it,
the discipline will soon be found sufficiently stringent to prevent
their remaining as inmates of the building.
The advanced students referred to as entitled to quarters at
Sorin Hall comprise young men of the Senior and Junior years
in the classical, scientific or any other regular course of the
university curriculum. When a student has attained to that
rank in educational proficiency, whether he has studied here or
elsewhere, he is entitled without extra- charge to a room and to
the privileges of Sorin Hall. There he may remain until he
finishes, or as long afterwards as he wishes, should he desire to
pursue post-graduate studies. The same rule applies to students
of the Junior and Senior year, or to post-graduates, who desire
to study law.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
73
Law Department.
Faculty.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D., Dean,
International Laic, Equity Jurisprudence and Pleadings. Common Law
Pleadings, Leal and Personal Property. Evidence, Domestic
Relations, Contracts, Torts, etc.
HON. LUCIUS HUBBARD, LL. D.,
i
Insurance and- Code Pleadings.
ABRAHAM L. BRICK, LL. D.,
Criminal Law, Pleading and Practice.
HON. TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Appellate Jurisdiction of Supreme Courts.
HON. FRANK SCALES, LL. D.,
Assessments and Taxation.
HON. RICHARD PRENDERGAST,
Assignments.
HON. JOHN GIBBONS, LL. D.,
Constitutional Law.
HON. LUCIUS G. TONG, A. M., LL. B.,
Banks and Banking.
WILLIAM P. BREEN, A. M., LL. B.,
Statutory Law.
' JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
Political Economy.
GEORGE E. CLARKE, A. M., LL. M.,
Advocacy.
REV. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Toxicology and Medical Jurisprudence.
i
74
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The course of study in this Department covers a period of
three years. However, when students are entitled to advanced
standing by reason of previous study, or have been actually
engaged in the practice of law, one or two years of faithful work
may enable them to complete the course. And so where they
have studied a year or more in other law schools. While it is
desirable that three years should be given to the prosecution of
legal studies before seeking admission to the bar, yet persons
who attend all the lectures and exercises of the course and
diligently apply themselves to the discharge of the duties devolv-
ing upon them may finish in two years.
The regular course comprises three years. The student in it
must be at least 17 years of age. He must have a fair general
education and be able accurately to write the English language.
A preliminary examination may be resorted to as a means of
ascertaining his educational standing. Once he has been
admitted to the course he may attend at his option any of the
collegiate classes.
The other course comprises a period of two years. The
standard of qualifications for graduation is practically the same
in both courses. The shorter course is designed more particu-
larly for the accommodation of students who have reached or
passed the age of 18 years and acquired a good general educa-
tion. Students of this course must apply themselves chiefly to
the study of law. A proper performance of the duties devolving
upon them leaves but little time for other studies.
With the exception of collegiate graduates, whose general
education is presumably finished, all young men about to enter upon
the study of law should endeavor to take the three years’ course.
Knowing how comprehensive the study of law is, and how
available all branches of human knowledge may be made in its
practice, the officers of the University aim to afford law students
special advantages—all reasonable and approved facilities — in
the work of qualifying themselves for the legal profession. Con-
sequently students of the Law Department may, without
additional expense, enter any of the classes and pursue the studies
of the classical and scientific courses.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
75
It has been demonstated that students of the Sophomore or
Junior year in the classical and scientific courses may enter with
advantage upon the study of law, attending daily at least one of
the lectures. In such instances, they have been able to qualify
themselves for graduation and admission to the bar in from
three to four years. In other words, they have been able to
finish the law either contemporaneously with their graduation
in the collegiate courses or within a year afterward.
Students who do not intend to practice law or become candi-
dates for the degree of LL. B., but wish simply to complete
their education by adding to their acquirements a knowledge of
legal principles, may, at any proper time during the year, have
their names enrolled upon the list of students in the Law
Department. No extra expense is thereby entailed. However,
such students must be sufficiently advanced in age and education
to justify the belief that they can understand and appreciate
instruction in the law. The number of students of this class is
likely to increase steadily, for year by year it is becoming more
and more manifest that an education in our time-is not complete
without a knowledge of at least the elementary principles of the
law. Many a business man has had to face financial ruin on
account of want of acquaintance with the law. Many a person
has, by an inconsiderate act, due to his ignorance of the law,
forfeited claim to the protection of the court and the vindication
of his rights. Many a person has been compelled to do exactly
the contrary of what he intended through his failure to under-
stand the essential elements of a contract. Many a one has
been compelled to pay heavy damages for personal injuries
caused by negligence, or failure to perform a duty, or improper
performance of it, where no liability would exist if the “law of
torts” had been known and observed. As the law is over and
around every creature from the first moment of his being until
the grave has closed upon him, it would be impossible to over-
estimate its utility and importance. Indeed, there is no study
that can at all compare with it in practical utility, in training the
mind to accuracy of observation, in strengthening the judgment
and directing it to intelligent discrimination in the whole wide

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
range of secular affairs. Without a knowledge of at least the
elementarjr principles of the law, education in our day can
hardly be pronounced complete.
The Chief Methods of Instruction
in the Law Department consist in the delivery daily of three
lectures, the taking of copious notes of the same by students,
the subsequent reading by them of the authorities cited in the
notes, the study of the standard elementary text-books, the
analysis and recitation in substance at least of the most impor-
tant leading cases, oral examinations daily and written examina-
tions weekly, the trial of actions at law and suits in equity in the
Moot Court, debates and exercises in public speaking at least
once a week. One of the professors presides as judge of the
Moot Court and chairman of the society meetings. The Moot
Court is regularly organized, having the necessary officers, such
as judge, clerk, prosecuting attorney, sheriff, bailiff, reporters,
etc. Pleadings are filed and actions or suits begun in as close
accordance as practicable with the proceedings of the County,
State and Federal Courts.
Four classes are taught daily. Three hours are devoted to
the lectures, while one hour is given to “quizzing” and recita-
tions. Wednesday afternoon and Saturday evening are devoted
to Moot Court work and exercises in public speaking. Students
take full notes of the lectures. These cover the whole domain of
the law and state the principles clearly and tersely. They state
what seems to be the correct or established rules and avoid the
contradictions that perplex so many students. They are deemed
highly valuable, not only in preparing for examinations, but also
in subsequent practice, as the latest decisions are often found
cited in them. In the “quiz” class it is sought by question and
answer to cover the whole ground of the law. Questions bearing
upon every branch and phase of it are put to the students dur-
ing the two or three years of their course, and almost necessarily
they become familiar not only with them, but also with the
proper answers. Hence, the ground is covered, ist, by the lec-
tures; 2d, by the study of the notes and reading and analysis of
LAW DEPARTMENT.
77
important decisions; 3d, by the study of the best elementary
text-books, lists of which can be had from the professors; 4th,
by the daily examinations or “quizzes. ’’ These “quizzes” are
exceptionally instructive and interesting. They are conducted
orally—in conversational style. They are not designed to puz-
zle or confuse the students. On the contrary, the aim is to make
everything clear and intelligible to them. Moreover, the
students are invited to ask the examiner for information upon
any and every topic that may seem in any way obscure to them.
At certain times adjudicated cases of special importance are
analyzed and explained. The rise, organization and develop-
ment of courts likewise receive due attention. The common law
and code methods of beginning an action, filing the pleadings,
joining issue, impaneling the jury, examining witnesses, apply-
ing the rules of evidence, preparing instructions, receiving the
verdict, moving for a new trial, arguing the motion for it, taking
the motion for it, taking the cases to the higher courts on
appeal, preparing the record, abstract and brief, and doing all
things necessary in the management of a trial, are fully described
exemplified. Matters that could not profitably be treated at
length in the lectures, with the requisite variety of illustrations
and qualifications, are taken up and considered at “quiz.”
Hypothetical cases involving the principles that students find it
most dificult to master are frequently submitted, analyzed and
explained. The questions and answers cover all the most
important principles stated in the notes, but the range of the
“quiz” is broader in certain directions than the notes. Nothing
is overlooked which may legitimately be made the subject of a
question in the examination for admission to the bar. It is
evidently due in no small measure to this fact that the graduates
of this Department have been so exceptionally successful in
their examinations. Certain it is that no law school in the
country has a more creditable record than Notre Dame in this
regard. However, the Supreme Court of Indiana has adopted
a rule providing for the admission of graduates of this Depart-
ment on motion, or without examination. Under this rule they
may present themselves before the court and receive certificates
78
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of admission to the bar. They are likewise admitted on motion
to the bar of the Fede-ral courts. It is required, however, that
applicants for admission to the bar of this State shall be voters.
The Common Law
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the law generally
prevalent throughout the Union. It addresses itself to almost
all the relations of life. In fact, about nineteen out of every
twenty cases tried in our courts are decided in accordance with
its principles. It is generally uniform in its operation. How-
ever, the statutory enactments of State Legislatures overcome
and displace it so far as they conflict with it. These enactments
differ materially in different States, owing to unlike conditions
and local differences. Thus it is that the laws of certain States
are so radically unlike the laws of other States. Of course,
there are instances in which statutes are passed to cover acts
and conditions not provided for by the common law; but in most
instances the existing statutes qualify, displace or render
inoperative some rules of the common law. The repeal of
statutes having this effect restores the common law rules to their
former force and efficacy. In view of these facts, thorough
instruction is here given in the common law. Neither lawyers
nor judges pretent to know the statutes of any other State than
that in which they practice or preside. Moreover, no court
pretends to take judicial cognizance of or know the statutes of
any other State than that in which it has its being and jurisdic-
tion. In fact, a knowledge of the statutes of different States
would be more confusing and bewildering than profitable to
judges, lawyers and students. In an examination for admission
to the bar in any State of the Union no question is put and
nothing is said relative to the statutes of any other State. There
are, however, certain fundamental statutory enactments that
exist without material diversity in their , scope and purpose in
almost all the States. Again, other statutes somewhat less
important and fundamental in character exist in groups of States.
Such statutes as these may profitably be studied in classes, in
connection with the common law; but it would be worse than
useless for a student to attempt to investigate and study the
LAW DEPARTMENT.
79
mazes of statutory differences in the several States. Hence it
is recommended as advisable for each student to bring with him
when he comes here in September to pursue the study of law a
-copy of the revised statutes of his own State or of the State in
which he proposes to practive.
In tlie Matter of Expense,
no discrimination is made between law students and the students
of the regular collegiate courses. The fee for board, lodging,
tuition, washing, the mending of linens, etc., is fixed at $300.00
for the scholastic year. Terms of payment and other informa-
tion will be found under the head of expenses, page 20.
Isolated as Notre Dame is, students enjoy immunity from the
distractions and temptations of city,life and need incur no note-
worthy expenses aside from those stated. They live in an atmos-
phere of study, and every incentive and feeling of emulation
aroused in them tends to the formation of studious habits. Thus
their work is rendered peculiarly effective. It has often been
dem onstrated that nowhere else do students accomplish more work
in a given time. This fact is not to be overlooked in considering
the matter of expense. In order to maintain this salutary state
of things the same rules of discipline apply to all students.
Access may be had at reasonable hours, not only to the Lemon-
nier Library, but also to the Law Library. This contains all
the standard text books and reports. Every decision rendered
for several years in the State, Territorial and Federal courts may
be found in the Law Library. Consequently students need pur-
chase but very few law books. In this regard they are specially
favored, for at other law schools the item of books alone for
•each student frequently amounts to from $100 to $200.
Young men eligible to begin the study of law may be matric-
ulated as students of this Deparement at any time during the
year. However, it is advisable to enter at or near the beginning
■of the scholastic year. Students in the graduating year are
known as Seniors. The others are called Juniors. All law
students, whether Seniors or Juniors, whose general education
is sufficiently advanced to place them on a footing with students
in the Senior or Junior class in the collegiate courses, are
-entitled to free rooms in Sorin Hall.
8o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
A Post-Graduate Course
for law students has recently been established. Graduates may
return at any time and enter upon the studies of this course.
By devoting a year to the work prescribed and passing the
examination they become entitled to the degree of Master of
Laws. They are entitled to rooms free of charge provided their
general education is sufficiently advanced to place them on a
footing with students in the Senior or Junior class in the colle-
giate courses. The course of instruction consists mainly in the
analytical study and writing of pleadings, the examination of
witnesses, the taking of depositions, the trial of actions at law
and suits in equity, the practical application of rules of evidence,
the preparation of briefs and arguments for the higher courts,
the study of leading cases, practice from time to time in what is
popularly called “office work,'’ daily participation in the exercises
of the “quiz class,” a comparative study of the legislation of differ-
ent countries, and the influence of the civil law upon the develop-
ment and modern jurisprudence. It is believed that the student
who finishes this course and reads carefully the revised statutes of
his State will be qualified to enter at once upon the practice of law.
Every student who is a candidate for the degree of Bachelor
of Laws and Master of Laws is required to write, at least six weeks
before graduation
A Thesis
upon some topic selected by himself. It should not be less
than 40 folios in length. The writer is expected to read the
thesis at a special meeting of the class and to defend the propo-
sitions set forth in it. Having read and defended it success-
fully, he places it in the hands of the Dean, whose approval it
must have. If it be not meritorious in matter, form and style, the
student may forfeit the right to be considered a candidate for grad-
uation until the following year and the submission by him of a sat-
isfactory thesis.	_ „ _ .
J	In Conclusion
it may be stated that nowhere can the study of law be more
profitably pursued than at Notre Dame. The diligent student
may here qualify himself to pass the most rigid examination in
any State. He may lay broad and deep the foundation of his
legal knowledge and fit himself to become notable in the pro-
fession and worthy of its honors.
LAW DEPARTMENT.
81
Students here have a decided advantage over those of some
other law schools, in that they are not so numerous as to make
the Law Class unwieldy and cumbersome. It is hardly noticed
in some places who does and who does not attend class, and the
relative standing of students is often quite unknown to the pro-
fessors. So numerous are they that the books of even a vast
library would be inadequate for their use. A score of them may
desire to refer to and read the same book at the same time.
Taking Moot Court cases in turn, they can hardly try before the
professors more than one or two in the year. They may not be
required to answer each on an average more than one question
a week. They receive little or no practical instruction. Left
almost wholly to themselves in the choice of methods of study,
it is not remarkable that there should be an absence of system
in the work they do, nor is it singular that many of them fail to
make substantial progress and qualify themselves to undergo suc-
cessfully, a rigid examination for admission to the bar. Such
evils almost inevitably attend the work of instructing a very
large class. Moreover, a large corps of professors would be
requisite in such case. And who does not know that the larger
the corps of professors, the more difficult for them to act in uni-
son, to avoid repetition, to cover the law in its entirety, and to
understand readily and work effectively to overcome the peculiar
weaknesses and drawbacks of each student?
Law students at Notre Dame have none of these evils to
contend against. Here each member of the class comes fre-
quently in contact with the professors and becomes personally
known to them. He is directed and aided in his work. He is
required to attend class regularly and to obey in his deportment
and the discharge of his duties, certain prescribed rules of dis-
cipline—rules of discipline deemed necessary for his welfare.
Thus he may be strengthened at every weak point. Thus he
may be rounded out into symmetrical and useful manhood.
Thus may his character be formed in the mold of honor and
impressed with the noble traits and admirable qualities of gentle-
man, scholar and lawyer.
82
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Institute of Technology.
This building has been erected on the most approved plans,
after a study of the best institutions of the kind at home and
abroad. In size it is 109 feet long by 40 feet wide and three
stories high. Convenience, ventilation, and an abundance of
light are provided for in all the rooms.
The Institute is divided into three principal departments: that
of Theoretical and Experimental Engineering, the department
of Practical Mechanics, and the department of Machine Draw-
ing and Design.
1	.—Engineering Department.
This department is divided into two principal sections, that
of the class-room or Theoretical Engineering, and that of the
Mechanical Laboratory or Experimental Engineering.
(1)	Section of Theoretical Engineering.—The course of
studies in the class-room during the Junior year comprises the
subjects of Materials of Construction, Kinematics or Mechanical
Movements, and the principles of Machine Design.
These principles are illustrated by models in the lecture-room
and further explained in the drawing-room.
The Senior year is devoted to the study, by text-book and
lecture, of Thermodynamics, the Theory of the Steam Engine
and other motors, the construction and operation of boilers and
pumps. A graduating thesis and drawing, and a specimen of
■shopwork are required of each candidate for a degree at the
close of the year.
(2)	Section of Experimental Engineering.—This depart-
ment is devoted to calorimetry and the standardization of instru-
ments; the adjusting and operation of prime movers, boilers and
pumps/with precise measurements of their power and efficiency;
and testing of the strength and properties of the materials of
construction, the metals, woods, oils, etc. The purpose of this
INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY.	83
course is not only to familiarize the student with the apparatus
employed, but to teach him some of the methods of research and
prepare him for the prosecution of original investigations.
e
II	.—Department of Practical Mechanics.
This department is divided into two sections: Wood-working
and Machine-shop Work.
(1)	Section of Wood-Working.—This section comprises
three courses: 1st, the course of Joinery, in which the student
is taught the use and care of hand tools, the making of joints
and parts of structures, and the best methods of laying off and
executing the most familiar operations of the joiner and carpen-
ter; 2d, the course of Wood-Turning, in which he learns the use
of the lathe and acquires a fair degree of skill in working to
measurements; 3d, the course of Pattern Making, which is a
combination of the other two for mechanical purposes. The
machine tools used in this course, besides the lathes, are the
scroll saw, the planer, the saw bench, and universal trimmer.
(2)	Section of Machine-Shop Work.—The exercises of
this course are graded and principally designed to illustrate the
use of the tools. The tools employed are the lathe, planer and
shaper, drill press, milling-machine, grinding apparatus, etc.,
such as are. most commonly met in general practice.
III	.—Department of Machine Drawing and Design.
Instruction in this course begins with free hand sketching of
the parts of machines, some of which may afterwards be made
to scale. Linear drawing and the use of instruments follow;
and the principles of descriptive geometry are taught until the
student can work with certainty and precision. Students in the
courses of kinematics and machine design study on the draw-
ing-board more fully the details of mechanisms and the relations
of connected parts. This is done under the direction of the
instructors of those branches, who also assist in thesis work
and the designing of complete machines. Tracing, blue-print-
ing, coloring, and the conventionalities of drawing are practiced
extensively.
84
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Special Courses.
ThoseQwho do not take the course of Engineering may, if
recommended by the Director of Studies, enter the shops for a
course in manual training, or for the purpose of acquiring skill
in practical mechanics.
Course In Applied Electricity.
A practical and experimental course in Applied Electricity
has been arranged for students in Electrical Engineering.
Other students, having available time and proper attain-
ments, who desire practical knowledge of the modern applica-
tions of Electricity may enter this class.
The laboratory exercises will be similar to those contained in
Ayrton's Practical Electricity, Slingo and Brooker’s Electrical
Engineering, Kempe’s Electrical Testing and Thompson’s
Dynamo-Electric Machinery. Recitations and careful notes of
all work performed will be required.
The equipment and conveniences provided for this course
are very complete and well-selected. Four rooms having a floor
space of over 3,000 square feet in the basement of Science Hall
are used as a testing laboratory, a construction and experimental
work-shop, a battery and photometer room and a dynamo and
engine room. These are in addition and auxiliary to the cabi-
nets, laboratories and lecture room of the general physics
department. The appliances comprise numerous forms of bat-
teries, direct and alternate current dynamos and motors, arc
and incandescent lighting apparatus, and a large collection of
the latest types of American and foreign scientific and commer-
cial instruments for current strength, E. M. F., resistance, insu-
lation, capacity, efficiency and photometer tests and measure-
ments. The University of Notre Dame was one of the first in
the United States to be lighted by electricity. The plant con-
sists of three Edison dynamos for indoor lighting and a Thom-
son-Houston arc light dynamo for illuminating the grounds.
In the eight buildings where the incandescent light has been
introduced, there are over twelve miles of wiring. This affords
opportunity for practical inspection and testing.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
Catalogue of Students.
FROM SEPTEMBER, 1894, TO JUNE, 1895.
[In this list are not included the names of those students who were dis-
missed or withdrawn at the request of the College authorities during the
scholastic year.]
Abrahams, George....................Illinois.
Abrahams, Louis L...................Illinois.
Allyn, Arthur.....................................Illinois.
Audibert, Eugene	P............................New York.
Ayer, James L.....................................Illinois.
Austin, Maurice C.................................Ohio.
Adler, Leo..............................................Illinois.
Arnold, Oscar H.........................................Illinois.
Arce, Julius A.......
Atherton, Chester H.
Arnold, Franklin E..
Ainsworth, Charles S
Alber, Hugo C........
Adler, Michael L....
Anson, George N......
Anderson, Frederick.
Adelsperger, Charles
.Peru, South America.
Illinois.
.Indiana.
.Wisconsin.
.Wisconsin.
Illinois.
.Wisconsin.
Illinois.
.Indiana.
Barry, James
Illinois.
Baird, Perry 0.............................
Brown, James H ............................
Texas.
Massachusetts.
Boland, Joseph M.....................................Missouri.
Byrne, John M........................................Illinois.
Burke, William J ....................................Illinois.
Burke, William P...
Brinker, Louis E....
Brennen, Edward E.
Bennett, Hunter M .
Baldwin, Lee J......
Blanchard, Claude L
Illinois.
. Kentucky.
.Indiana.
.West Virginia.
Kentucky.
. Iowa.
86
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Britz, Nicholas.................................Illinois.
Browne, Robert P................................Iowa.
Byrne, William F................................Illinois.
Barrett, John P.................................Illinois.
Bullene, John T.................................Missouri.
Brinckerhoff, Water E...........................Illinois.
Bump, Alexander.................................Illinois.
Breslin, Francis D..............................New York.
Brissenden, Fred. A.............................Indiana.
Barrett, Edward A...............................Illinois.
Boy ton, Cornelius..............................Illinois.
Boyton, Paul....................................Illinois.
Bloomfield, John W..............................Kentucky.
Ball, Alphonsus J...............................Indiana.
Bartlett, Glenn C...............................New Mexico.
Barry, John W...................................Michigan.
Burns, Thomas D.................................New Mexico.
Barry, Robert E.................................Illinois.
Benz, Joseph P..................................Iowa.
Browne, James W.................................Iowa.
Burns, William P................................Indiana.
Barrett, James B................................California.
Barton, Francis W...............................Illinois.
Bergan, William..............................  Indiana.
Bennett, James..................................Canada.
Bonnoes, Seraphim.............................Illinois.
Blaney, Louis W.................................Michigan.
Boylan, James A.................................Michigan.
Burke, William..................................Illinois.
Berry, Bruce................................  ..Maryland.
Corry, Clarence A...............................Montana.
Coyne, John J...................................Illinois.
Clark, Alfred...................................Indiana.
Coleman, Eugene.................................Indiana.
Colvin, Harry E.................................Ohio.
Corby, J. Sidney................................Missouri.
Crane, James H..................................Illinois.
Craft, Charles..................................Indiana.
Chassaing, Edme V...............................Missouri.
Campbell, Patrick F.............................Indiana.
Covert, George F................................Ohio.
Carney, Alex R..................................Wisconsin.
Cavanagh, Thomas T..............................Illinois.
Costello, Martin J..............................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.	87
Campbell, Arthur W..............................Illinois.
Crilly, Edgar...................................Illinois.
Chase, Arthur T.................................Illinois.
Cullen, Charles T...............................Indiana.
Cavanagh, Joseph D..............................Oregon.
Conger, David...................................Indiana.
Corr, John F....................................New York.
Carroll, Patrick................................Oklahoma.
Cottin, Francis S...............................Michigan.
Curry. Joseph...................................Minnesota.
Corcoran, Joseph P..............................Kentucky.
Cressy, Clement G..............................Indiana.
Clarke, Robert..................................Illinois.
Coquillard, Alexis..............................Indiana.
Coquillard, Joseph A............................Indiana.
Catchpole, Robert J.............................Illinois.
Cassady, Henry J................................Illinois.
Collins, Burton W...............................Illinois.
Carruthers, John P..............................Illinois.
Carruthers, Francis J...........................Illinois.
Cotter, Percy V.................................Illinois.
Cottin, Daniel S................................Michigan.
Cornell, Francis B..............................New York.
Corrj, John Basil...............................Montana
*/ z
Clune, Timothy C................................Indiana.
Connell, James..................................Illinois.
Connor, William T...............................Illinois.
Corbv, John.....................................Missouri.
Corby, Joseph A.................................Missouri.
Cypher, George A................................Pennsylvania.
Cullen, Thomas E................................Indiana.
Casey, Daniel V.................................Indiana.
Cullinan, Eustace...................,...........California.
Davis, Alfred N..............................Indiana.
Dowd, John J.................................Illinois.
Delaney, Eugene A............................Pennsylvania.
Dougan, Richard S............................Michigan.
Daley, Michael T.............................New Jersey.
Davila Jenaro,...............................Mexico.
Ducey, John V................................Colorado.
Dannemiller, Albert J........................Ohio.
Druecker, Alex. J............................Illinois.
Dixon, Samuel D..............................Iowa.
Dalton, John T...............................Missouri.
88
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Davezac, Grabriel P
Devanney, John A.
Dinkel, Nicholas S.
Davis, Francis W..
.Kentucky.
Pennsylvania.
Ohio.
Illinois.
Dempsey, John J..................................Michigan.
Dugas, Ernest L..................................Illinois.
Dugas, Graham....................................Illinois.
Dalton, William J................................Missouri.
Devine, Marcus A..................................Illinois.
Durand, William W.................................Indiana.
Dillon, Francis D
Davis, Grover C..
Dalton, Patrick..
Dwan, Patrick...
Iowa.
.Indiana.
.Ohio.
.Rhode Island.
DeLorimier, Arthur.........................Indiana.
Drejer, Francis.............................Indiana.
Dwyer, Vincent	D........................Indiana.
Dwyer, Francis..............................Indiana.
Elliott, Edwin E.............................Wisconsin.
Egan, Gerald M...............................Indiana.
Elitch, Charles J............................California.
Erhart, Aloysius J...........................Pennsylvania.
Eyanson, Francis E...........................Indiana.
Eymer, Alfred W..............................Michigan.
Fagan, William A.............................New York.
Falvey, Edward B.............................Missouri,
Flynn, Albert J.............................. Illinois.
Flynn, William F.............................Illinois.
Fitzsimmons, Peter H.........................Illinois.
Fera, Adolph C...............................Illinois.
Foulks Charles,..............................Kansas.
Funke, Alfred W..............................Colorado.
Finnerty, Thomas T. J........................Colorado.
Follen, Peter E..............................Indiana.
Fredell, George..............................Illinois.
Funke, Arthur M..............................Colorado.
Foley, Phillip N.............................Kentucky.
Finnerty, William M..........................Colorado.
Fitzgerald, Philander J......................Indiana.
Ford, Henry..................................Michigan.
Flynn, John P................................Mexico.
Forbing, John W..............................Ohio.
Farley, Arthur J.............................New York.
Fennessey, John F............................Massachusetts.
9
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
89
Franey, Robert F.................................Illinois.
Foley, John J....................................Illinois.
Feltenstein, Maurice.............................Illinois.
Fitzgerald, Bernard G.............................Indiana.
Fitzgibbon, Dan F................................Illinois.
Fox, Robert L.....................................Indiana.
Garrity, McNellis P. L............................Illinois.
Garrity, Leo J. M.................................Illinois.
Graham, Percy C...................................Illinois.
Gilpin, Louis P...................................Colorado.
Gibson, Norwood R.................................Illinois.
Gilmartin,’Edward T...............................Indiana.
Gilmore, Edward X
Golden, Walter B
Illinois.
Pensylvania.
Galen, Albert J........................Montana.
Guthrie, Thomas F
Gilbert, Edward J.
Garceau, Arthur J.
Grady, William P..
Gooley, Lawrence..
Griffin. John...
Iowa.
.Illinois.
.Indiana.
.Illinois.
Indiana.
.Massachusetts.
Gallagher, Hugh.................................Idaho.
Girsch, Charles N...............................Illinois.
Goldstein, Julius...............................New York.
Goldstein, Toby.................................New York.
Gimbel, Eugene A................................Indiana.
Gausepohl, Charles F............................Kentucky.
Gainer, Edward J................................Illinois.
Goldsmith, Herbert S............................Illinois.
Gibson, Leigh F.................................Illinois.
Gallagher, John H...............................Illinois.
Goff, Dorset J.......................■..........Indiana.
Holleader, George..........................Ohio.
Hayes, John................................New York.
Haydon, James..............................Ohio.
Heffron, Edward L..........................New York.
Henry, Harvey E ...........................Texas.
Herman, Adam G.............................Ohio.
Hanhauser, Andrew..........................Pennsylvania.
Hamilton, A. Richard.......................Kentucky.
Hanhauser, George J........................Pennsylvania.
Halligan, Richard G........................Missouri.
Harrison, J. Francis.......................Wyoming.
90
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Hindel, William................................Indiana.
Howley, Thomas M...............................Illinois.
Hierholzer, Edward J...........................Ohio.
Hogan, John J..................................Illinois.
Hesse, Francis H ..............................Iowa.
Hogan, John T..................................Indiana.
Hodge, Wallace B...............................Iowa.
Hentges, Edward... ............................Iowa.
Hengen, W. Charles.............................Indiana.
Hanrahan, Charles T............................Iowa.
Howell, John E.................................Pennsylvania.
Hennebry, Michael F............................Illinois.
Hinde, John R..................................Illinois.
Howard, George A...............................Indiana.
Higgins, E. Ralph..............................Illinois.
Higgins, G. Roy................................Illinois.
Hutchinson, Daniel.............................Illinois.
Hayes, John E.................................. Ohio.
Hayes, Arthur T.... -..........................Ohio.
Healv, Leo R...................................Illinois.
Healy, Waldo W.................................Illinois.
Harding, Abner 0...............................Illinois.
Hoban, Thomas M................................Indiana.
Herrera, Manuel F..............................Mexico.
Hagerty, Jeremiah..............................Indiana.
Heer, Charles H................................Missouri.
Heer, Edward E.................................Missouri.
Heer, Leander L................................Missouri.
Hagan, Charles C...............................Illinois.
Herschey, James E..............................Colorado.
Hart, Lawrence A...............................Indiana.
Hess, Benjamin V...............................Illinois.
Hess, Roy C....................................Illinois.
Hess, Francis F................................Illinois.
Hawkins, Burchard G............................Indiana.
Hines, Rue N...................................Ohio.
Hines, Pierce Van A............................Ohio.
Hervey, John F.................................Texas.
Hudson, Arthur P ..............................Ohio.
Jones, E. Francis..............................Iowa.
Johnson, George N..............................Minnesota.
Jones, Vitus G.................................Michigan.
Jones, Harry M.................................Illinois.
Jonquet, Jeremiah E............................Indiana.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS
91
Jonquet, Maurice...........................Indiana.
Kegler, William 0...................................Iowa.
Kortas, Bruno J....................................Illinois.
Kaul, Isidore..............................Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Kaul, Frank............................
Kaul, Edward...........................
King, Thomas W
Kansas.
South Dakota.
Indiana.
Kinsella, Roger...............................
Karasynski, Albert T..........................
Keyser, Charles.
Krueper, Bruno.
Kulamer, John..
Kraeling Fritz..
Keeffe, George H
.Indiana.
.Indiana.
.Pennsylvania.
.Alaska.
.California.
Kasper, Adam J........................................Illinois.
Kasper, George W......................................Illinois.
Kasper, Fred. J.......................................Illinois.
Kuntz, Peter M........................................Illinois.
Kuntz, John L.........................................Illinois.
Konzon, John J........................................Indiana.
Krug, George A........................................Ohio.
Kirk, Milton A........................................Illinois.
Kane, William J.......................................Iowa.
Kelly, Leo............................................Kansas.
Kasper, Robert A......................................Illinois.
Kelly, Charles........................................Illinois.
Kopf, George M........................................Illinois.
Kennedv, James F......................................Illinois.
Keough, Frank M.......................................Illinois.
............................Indiana.
............................Peru, South America.
Ludwig, Joseph
Landa, Louis 0
Lawlor, William J..............................Illinois.
Lassig, Louis..................................Illinois,
o ?
Lansdowne, George U............................Kentucky.
Lyons, Francis H............................... Ohio.
Lindsey, James M...............................Iowa.
Long, Edward................................... Indiana.
Lichtenwalter, Arthur B........................Illinois.
Long, Albert V.................................Indiana.
Lantry, Jesse W.........x......................Illinois.
Langley, Charles D.............................Illinois.
Leonard, Joseph B..............................Pennsylvania.
Lutz, Ferdinand L..............................Kentucky.
92
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Lowery, Thomas A.............................Michigan.
Lane, James T................................Iowa.
Lansdowne, Herman W..........................Kentucky.
Lewinsohn, Isaac.............................Illinois.
Lawton, Jasper H.............................Texas.
Leach, George W..............................Indiana.
Lovell, Willard T............................Montana.
Mullen, John.................................Minnesota.
Murphy, Thomas...............................Iowa.
Murphy, Peter................................New York.
Marr, William................................Colorado.
Moynihan, Patrick............................ Connecticut.
Murray, Clarence E...........................Illinois.
Minnigerode, Charles.........................Virginia.
Miers, Robert N..............................Texas.
Morris, Fred.................................Texas.
Murray, Roy A................................Illinois.
Moss, Claude S...............................Illinois.
Miles, Herbert H.............................Colorado.
Morris, William T............................West Virginia.
Maternes, Jacob W............................Illinois.
Monarch, Martin V............................Kentucky.
Monahan, William P...........................Illinios.
Moran, Edward P..............................Missouri.
Miller, Lucius H.............................Indiana.
Massey, Wynter C.............................Michigan.
Maurer, Joseph W.............................Illinois.
Moorehouse, Jay E............................Illinois.
Moxley, George T.............................Illinois.
Mathewson, Henry W...........................Wisconsin.
Murphy, Elmer J..............................Iowa.
Miller, Ryell T..............................Indiana.
Moore, Stephen N.............................Illinois.
Medley, Thomas A.............................Kentucky.
Mulroney, Charles H..........................Iowa.
Monarch, Daniel D............................Kentucky.
Moran, Michael T.............................Missouri.
Mapother, Thomas J...........................Kentucky.
Moxley, William J............................Illinois.
Miller, John W...............................Ohio.
Masters, Thomas D............................Illinois.
Montague, Charles M..........................Michigan.
Manchester, Edward A.........................Iowa.
Miller, Henry A..............................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
93
Monahan, John J.......................Iowa.
Monahan, Richard 0....................Iowa.
Monahan. Arthur.......................Iowa.
Monahan, Bartley J...........................Iowa.
Moore, John P................................Ohio.
Melter, Joseph T.............................Indiana.
Miller, Harry A..............................Indiana.
Monahan, Bartholomew L.......................Iowa.
Metzger, Charles L...........................Indiana.
Murray, Paul,................................Illinois.
Miller, Charles H............................Wisconsin.
Mannon, Joseph A.............................Ohio.
Murphy, Daniel P.............................Pennsylvania.
Murphy, John B...............................Washington.
Marr, William W.............................. Illinois.
Mott, Thomas D...............................California.
Mott, John G.................................California.
Mitchell, Hugh C.............................Texas.
Murray, James A..............................Ohio.
McGinley, James F.........................Illinois.
McDonald, Stewart.........................Illinois.
McDonald, Guy C...........................Illinois.
McKeon, Patrick........................... Connecticut.
McCaffrey, Thomas.........................Illinois.
McDaniel, George..........................Illinois.
McCarthy, Thomas D .......................Illinois.
McHugh, Thomas J..........................Indiana.
McShane, John F.......................Indiana.
McCarthy, Eugene E........................Illinois.
McPhillips, Joseph A........................Alabama.
McPhee, Raymond J.........................Colorado.
McKenzie, Edward...........................Kentucky.
McCarrick, George P.......................Virginia.
McCord, Ezra J............................;Wisconsin.
McHugh, Orvine J............................Iowa.
McPhee, Charles D...........................Colorado.
McKee, John E...............................Kentucky.
McGinnis, William J.........................Wisconsin.
Met-ord, Andrew L...........................Illinois.
McCarty, William J. T.......................Illinois.
McGreevey, Owen J...........................Indiana.
McGurk, John C..............................Ohio.
McDermett, William D.................■......Illinois.
McCorry, Henry..............................Tennessee.
94
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Minnesota.
Kansas.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Massachusetts.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
Massachussetts.
McIntyre, Robert F......................
McCarthy, John L........................
McCarthy, Thomas E......................
McCarthy, J. Gerald.....................
McElroy, James E........................
McNamara, George F......................
McNichols, William J....................
McKee, James A..........................
McManus, Francis P......................
Neville, Maurice A.............................Ohio.
Newland, Julius A..............................Indiana.
Naughton. David A..............................Illinois,
o
Naughton, Thomas M.............................Illinois.
Nevius, George W...............................Illinois.
Ney, Michael J.................................Iowa’.
Noonan, Thomas E...............................Illinois.
Nye, F. Bertram................................Illinois.
Nye, E. Cullen.................................Illinois.
Newman, Lloyd D................................Indiana.
Oswald, Michael ..
Oswald, Mathias..
O’Conner, Edward
O’Neill, Thomas T
Oberly, Amos E...
O’Conner, John...
Wisconsin.
Wisconsin.
Indian Territory.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Onzon, Francis J.............................Texas.
O’Mara, John R...............................Ohio.
O’Brien, William W...........................Illinois.
O’Maliy, Raymond G...........................Iowa.
O’Brien, Fred. J.............................Indiana.
Oldshue, Louis L.............................Pennsylvania.
O’Neil, Henry R..............................Missouri.
Oliver, Burton W.............................Michigan.
Plunkett, Fred. A............................Michigan.
Pendleton, Alfred J..........................Ohio.
Pim, F. Howard...............................Missouri.
Powell, Ralph E..............................Ohio.
Palmer, Ralph L..............................Arizona.
Pulskamp, Edward H...........................Ohio.
Piquette, Charles J..........................Michigan.
Pearce, Richard W............................Indiana.
Power, James I...............................Illinois.
Power, David.................................Ohio.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
95
Parnell, Lawrence..............................Maine.
Pollitz, Henry.................................Illinois.
Pollitz, William..................;............Illinois.
Plunkett, William J............................Michigan.
Paul, Clement C................................Indiana.
Prichard, Armstead M...........................West Virginia.
Pulskamp, George F.............................Ohio.
Quandt, Otto E.................................Wisconsin.
Quimby, Charles S..............................Michigan.
Quertinmont, George............................Indiana.
Quertinmont, Edgar.............................Indiana.
Quinlan, Thomas A..............................Illinois.
Rockey, Charles A..............................Indiana.
Reuss, Charles J.,.............................Indiana.
Regan, Charles P...............................Wisconsin.
Rauch, Edward..................................Indiana.
Reinhard, Jacob F..............................Ohio.
Roesing, Francis M.............................Illinois.
Rasche, Henry A................................Maryland.
Reardon, Patrick A.............................New York.
Rowan, Joseph A................................Iowa.
Ryan, Robert E.................................Illinois
Rosenthal, Jacob...............................Michigan.
Roper, Harry D.................................Indiana.
Roper, Eugene L............_...................Indiana.
Ryan, Maurice J......................a.........California.
Reilly, Thomas B...............................New York.
Raczynski, Joseph..............................Illinois.
Ritter, Paul...................................Indiana.
Roy, John......................................Indiana.
Ryan, Edward J.................................Illinois.
Roesing, Bernard W.............................Illinois.
Rasche, Leo J..................................Maryland.
Rasche, Dennis R...............................Maryland.
Robb, William B................................Illinois.
Ryan, Michael..................................Illinois.
Ryan, James J..................................Illinois.,
*
Schumacher, Matthew..............................Indiana.
Smith, James.....................................Illinois.
Smith, Thomas....................................Illinois.
Schnur, Martin J.................................Indiana.
Senrich, Charles.................................Indiana.
Sauter, John H...................................Illinois.
96
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Singler, Rudolph 0................................Indiana.
Shipp, Edward O...................................New York.
Sachsel, Edward J.................................Illinois.
Speake, Harold E..................................Indiana.
Sheils, Joseph P..................................Illinois.
Spillard, Arthur D................................Illinois.
Stub 1 fauth, George..............................Wisconsin.
Smith, Patrick....................................Iowa.
Storey, Hubert....................................Illinois.
Shillington, Charles J............................Illinois.
Sheeky, Joseph J..................................Indiana.
Sullivan, Joseph V................................Illinois.
Stearns, Henry C..................................Illinois.
Schaack, Charles W................................Illinois.
Strong, Charles T.................................Indiana.
Scott, Howard H...................................Ohio.
Smith, Floyd L....................................Ohio.
Steiner, John B...................................Ohio.
Spengler, Albert T................................Mississipp
Schulte, Fred. W..................................Iowa.
Sheehan, William F................................Michigan.
Smith, Thomas J...................................Ohio.
Scott, Francis D..................................Alabama.
Smoger, Francis A.................................Indiana.
Schultz, Stephen I................................Illinois.
Steele, Sherman...................................Ohio.
Steele, Charles F..........?......................Ohio.
Swan, Edmund F....................................Indiana.
Spillard, Daniel B...............................Illinois.
Strauss, Edgar L..................................Illinois.
Steele, Victor II.................................Illinois.
Sexton, Thomas I).................................Illinois.
Sontag, John H....................................Illinois.
Stace, Aithur Wr..................................Michigan.
Slevin, Richard S.................................Illinois.
Shannon, John G..................................Missouri.
Sullivan, Daniel L................................Ohio.
Smoger, Clem. S...................................Indiana.
Spalding, Samuel J................................Kentucky.
Stevens, Francis E................................Indiana.
Streicher, Jerome F...............................Ohio.
Schmidt, Oscar F..................................Illinois.
Sanders, James J..................................Illinois.
Schauer, William..................................Illinois.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
97
Sweet, George H
Smith, Joseph 0
District of Columbia.
Wisconsin.
Thompson, Louis S ...........................New York.
Taylor, Henry E..............................Illinois.
Taylor, Francis C............................Illinois.
Tong, Oliver W...............................Indiana.
Thompson, John...............................New York.
Trahey, James................................Indiana.
Thornton, David G............................Illinois.
Turner, Charles H............................West Virginia.
Timren, Buford...............................Texas.
Thompson, Urban..............................West Virginia.
Thomas, Reuben J.............................Illinois.
Tatman, Bernal W.............................Indiana.
Tuohy, Joseph J..............................Illinois.
Tempel, John E...............................Illinois.
Thalman, Harry A.............................Indiana.
Underwood, Lynn R............................Michigan.
Van Dyke. James A............................Michigan.
Van Dyke, George F...........................Michigan.
Vorhees, Phillip B...........................Illinois.
Vignos, Alfred A.............................Ohio.
Wilson, George...............................Illinois.
Walkowiak, Stanley S.........................Illinois.
Wilson, Horace A.............................Minnesota.
White, Stanley J............................. - .Ohio.
White, Peter.................................Iowa.
Weaver, AV. Burnett..........................Ohio.
Ward, Walter M...............................Illinois.
Wilson, Rufa L...............................Indiana.
Wensinger, Francis J.........................Kansas.
Wilkin, William S............................Michigan.
Wright, Oliver C.............................Illinois.
Wiss, John H.................................New York.
Wagner, Francis H............................Indiana.
Wellington, Philip A.........................Minnesota.
Wagner, Charles W............................Ohio.
Wheeler, Lucian C............................Iowa.
Walker, Samuel A.............................North Dakota.
Waite, Francis W.............................Louisiana.
Welch, Francis...............................Illinois.
Weidmann. GeorgeS............................Ohio.
98
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Weidmann, Fritz M......................
Wakefer, John C........................
Wilmarth, George E...................
Wurzer, Louis 0........................
Wurzer, F. Henry.......................
Whitehead, John B......................
Ward, Francis R........................
.. Ohio.
. Indiana.
South Dakota.
. Michigan.
Michigan.
.. Kentucky.
. .Minnesota.
Wallace, Tillman....................................Indiana.
Watterson, Theodore V...............................Ohio.
Waters, Francis J...................................Illinois
Wright, David S.....................................Illinois.
Wigg, Mayes G.......................................Illinois.
Wells, Charles I)...................................Illinois.
Weidmann, Paul M...................Ohio.
Young, William J...........................................Illinois.
Zitter, Carl.....................................Ohio.
Zwickel, Henry F.................................Indiana.
Zeitler, Charles W...............................Indiana.
ASSOCIATED ALUMNI.
99
Associated Alumni.
OFFICERS.
Rev. Nathan J. Mooney, ’78, President.
Mark M. Foote, ’73, 1st Vice-President.
John G. Ewing, ’77, 2d Vice-President.
William Hoynes, ’77, Treasurer.
Rev. N. J. Stoffel, C. S. C., ’76, Secretary.
William T. Ball, ’77, Historian.
George E. Clark, ’83, Orator.
John P. Lauth, ’68, Alternate.
Louis S. Hayes, ’74, Poet.
Rev. T. O’Sullivan, ’58, Alternate. -
IOO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
College Societies.
Religious.
Sorin and Brownson Halls.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.
This pious Association is affiliated to the Archconfraternity
of the Sacred and Immaculate Heart of Mary, established in
the Church of our Lady of Victories, in Paris. Its primary object
is to pray for the conversion of sinners and persons in error.
It aims at the mutual edification and personal sanctification of
all its members by regular weekly religious exercises, monthly
communions, and other religious practices. The Archconfra-
ternity is the oldest society in the University, and recruits its
members from amongst the Catholic students of Brownson and
Sorin Halls. It was canonically established at Notre Dame by
the Very Rev. Father Sorin, in 1845, and bids fair to be in the
future, as it has been in the past, for the students of Notre
Dame, a source of many blessings from the hand of their
Patroness, the Immaculate Mother of God.
Owing to the greatly increased membership the associates
are divided into four branches.
GENERAL OFFICERS.
Rev. D. J. Spillarcl, 0. S. C., Spiritual Director.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Hon. Director.
Rev. James French, C. S. C.,
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C.,
Rev. James A. Burns, C. S. C.,
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C.,
Bro. Basil, C. S. C., Organist.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Choir Director.
[- Promoters.
1
J
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
IOI
BRANCH NO. 1.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
James Barry, President,
Michael Costello, Vice-President.
Julius Arce, Treasurer,
William J. Burke, Secretary.
John W. Miller, Standard Bearer.
BRANCH NO. 2.
BRANCH NO. 3.
Bev. Jos. M. Kirsch, C.S.C., Director.
George Wilson, President.
Charles Mulroney, Vice-President.
Francis J. Wensinger, Treasurer.
Hugo Alber, Secretary.
Thomas T. Guthrie Standard Bearer.
BRANCH NO. 4.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C.,Director.
Patrick S. Riordan, President. “	*
Vincent Dwyer, Vice-President.
Peter Follen, Secretary.
J. Sidney Corby, Standard Bearer.
Daniel P. Murphy, President.
Daniel V. Casey, Vice-President.
Samuel A. Walker Secretary.
Eustace Cullinan, Treasurer.
Michael A. Ryan, Standard Bearer.
Carroll Hall.
Arclicontraternity of tlie Immaculate Heart of Mary.
The Carroll Hall Archconfraternity has the same aims and
object as that of Sorin and Brownson Halls. It recruits its
members from amongst the Catholic students of Carroll Hall.
GENERAL OFFICERS.
Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., Spiritual Director.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Hon. Director.
Rev. J. Kirsch, C. S. C.,	)
Rev. W. Moloney, 0. S. C., S Promoters.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C.,	)
Bro. Basil, 0. S. C., Organist.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Choir Director.
BRANCH NO. 1.	BRANCH NO. 2.
Rev. Jas. J. French, O.S.C., Director.
Jesse W. Lantry. President.
Francis B. Cornell, Vice-President.
John Corby, Secretary.
Joseph V. Sullivan, Treasurer.
John J. McPhillips, Standard Bearer.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., Director.
John E. Tempel, President.
Alfred J. Pendleton. Vice-President.
Aloysius J. Erhart, Secretary.
Joseph Corby. Treasurer.
Francis Ward. Standard Bearer.
BRANCH NO. 3.
Rro. Hugh, C. S. C., j Directors.
Bro. Alphonsus C. S. C., 1
Henry Rasche, President.
Joseph Sheeky, Vice-President.
Charles A. Wells, Secretary.
Charles Gausephol, Treasurer.
John Kuntz, Standard Bearer.
102
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
St. Edward’s Hall.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the world to contribute their shaare towards
the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of heathen-
ism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggregate is
considerable, while thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Rev. J. Maguire, C. S. C.. Director.
John L McCarthy, President.
McNellis Garrity, Vice-President.
Graham Dugas, Treasurer.
George T. Moxley, Secretary.
Leo Kelly, Censor.
Thomas Noonan, )	'
-r z-,	■,	c Standard Rearers.
Leo Garrrty,	|
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded September 29, 1874, by Very Rev.
E. Sorin, Superior General, C. S. C. It is composed of pupils
of the Minim Department, and has for its object the practice of
devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of
piety among its members, the supplying of the church with the
servers required at Mass, Vespers, and other Church offices. In
1875, Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many
special Indulgences from the late Rope Pius IX of happy memory.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,	} H Directors
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., J Uon’ Unectors-
FIRST TERM.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., Director. Rev. D. J. Spillard, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. Jos. Maguire, President.
Rev. Jos Maguire, President.
George Moxley, / Vice-Presidents Ernest Dugas, ) Vice-Presidents
JohnL.McCarthy, f Uce Presidents.Rob>tp McIntyre, f vice Piesidents.
Henry Pollitz, Treasurer.
Ernest Dugas, Rec. Sec.
Wm. Dalton, Cor. Sec.
Leo Garrity, First Censor.
Francis Cottin, Second Censor.
McNellis Garrity, Treasurer.
Francis Cottin, Rec. Sec.
Alexis Coquillard, Cor. Sec.
Edward Ryan, First Censor.
Francis Breslin, Second Censor.
Emmett McCarthy, Serg't.-at-Arms. Henry McCorry, Serg’t.-at-Arms.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
103
League of the Sacred Heart, or Apostleship of Prayer.
This Association was organized in September, 1891, and is
affiliated to the Central Branch in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
As membership in the League does not debar the students from
entering the other College Societies, the Apostleship of Prayer,
through its zealous promoters, has enrolled every Catholic
student at Notre Dame. The following are the names of the
PROMOTERS.
Rev. D. J. Spillard, 0. S. 0.
Rev. Joseph Kirsch, C. S. 0.
Rev. James A. Burns, 0. S. 0.
Bro. Emmanuel, 0. S. 0.
Bro. Hilarion, 0. S. 0.
Bro Cajetan, 0. S. 0.
Bro. Columba, C. S. C.
James F Kennedy.
A. AV. Stace.
R. L. Palmer.
Clarence Corry.
F. H. Hesse.
Charles Girsch.
H. C. Mitchell.
Rev. James J. French, C. S. C.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C.
Rev. W. Connor, C. S. 0.
Bro. Albeus, 0. S. 0.
Bro. Hugh, 0. S. C.
Bro. Jerome, C. S. C.
J. V. Ducey.
J. J. McPhillips.
W. J. Connor.
J. W. Lantry.
W. B. Weaver.
W. A. Fagan.
A. J. Galen.
Charles F. Steele.
F. E. Eyanson.
Total Abstinence Union.
The Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union was organized
November 8, 1882. It is affiliated to the State and National
Unions. It has always received the warmest encouragement of
the Faculty, whose efforts have been unceasing to increase its
membership.
OFFICERS.
Rev. J. J. French, C. S. C., President.
Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. U., Promoter.
Thomas T. Cavanagh, Vice-President.
Wm. P. Burke, Treasurer.
James Barry, Secretary.
Michael Costello, Sergeant-at-Arms.
104
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Literary,
St. Aloysius Pliilodemic Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851, (originally
under the name of the St. Aloysius Literary and Historical
Society,) is the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an
accurate knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and
debating society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain
facility in writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICERS.
FIRST TERM.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
Director.
Prof. M. F. Egan, Literary Critic.
Daniel P. Murphy, President.
James A. McKee, Vice-President.
Samuel A. Walker, Rec. Secretary.
Eustace Cullinan, Cor. Secretary.
Francis W. Powers, Treasurer.
Daniel V. Casey, Critic.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
Director.
Prof. M. F. Egan, Literary Critic.
Daniel P. Murphy, President.
James F. Kennedy, Vice-President.
Francis E. Eyanson, Rec. Secretary.
Arthur W. Stace, Cor. Secretary.
Arthur P. Hudson, Treasurer.
Thos. D. Mott, Critic.
Thespian Association.
This Society, founded in 1861, has for its object the cultiva
tion of Orator}r, Elocution, and the Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
FIRST TERM.
Rev. J ames J. French, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S.C., Promoter.
Prof. M. F. Egan, Literary Critic.
Prof. G. E. Clarke, President.
Daniel P. Murphy, Vice-President.
John A. Mott, Rec. Secretary.
John A. Devanney, Cor. Secretary.
Eustace Cullinan, Treasurer.
Samuel A. Walker, Historian.
John J. Shannon, Sergeant-at-Arms.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. James J.French, C.S.C.,Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C.S.C., Promoter.
Prof. M. F. Egan, Literary Critic.
Prof. G. E. Clarke, President.
Daniel V. Casey, Vice-President.
John A. Devanney, Rec. Secretary.
Edward H. Pulskamp, Cor. Secretary.
Arthur P. Hudson, Treasurer.
Hugh C. Mitchell, Historian.
Francis E. Eyanson, Serg’t-at-Arms.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.	IO5
Columbian Literary and Dramatic Association.
The Columbian Society was founded March 25, 1875, for the
benefit of students it Brownson Hall. Its object is the cultiva-
tion of Elocution and Oratory.
OFFICERS.
Rev. M. J. Regan, 0. S. C., Director.
Rev. James A. Burns, C. S. C., President.
Prof. James F. Edwards, Promotor.
Peter White, First Vice-President.
Edward Brennan, Second Vice-President.
Jolin W. Miller, Recording Secretary.
Raymond G. O’Maliy, Corresponding Secretary.
Thomas T. Cavanagh, Treasurer.
William J. Burke, Critic.
F. J. O’Brien, Censor.
St. Cecilia Philo matbean Society.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at
the same time a Debating, Dramatic and Musical Association.
Its exercises include public readings, declamations, essays,
debates, dramatic exercises and a Moot Court. It numbers 40
members—the elite, of Car roll Hall. Many of the plays acted
upon the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary
powers of its members, have been written expressly for them.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., Hon. President.
Professor M. F. Egan,	[ Literarv Critics
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., | niteiaD critics.
Professor Newton A. Preston, Musical Director.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Promoter.
FIRST SESSION.
Rev. M. A. Donahue, C. S. C., Pres.
Jesse W. Lantry, 1st Vice-Pres.
Joseph V. Sullivan, 2d Vice-Pres.
Francis B. Cornell, Recording Sec.
Herbert H. Miles, Corresponding Sec.
Leo R. Healy, Treasurer.
Thomas A. Lowery, Historian.
William W. O'Brien. 1st Censor.
John V. Ducey, 2d Censor.
George P. McCarrick, S’g’t.-at-Arms.
SECOND SESSION.
Rev. M. A. Donahue, C. S. C., Pres.
Jesse W. Lantry, 1st Vice-Pres.
Joseph V. Sullivan, 2d Vice-Pres.
Herbert H. Miles, Recording Sec.
Francis B. Cornell, Corresponding Sec.
Leo R. Healy, Treasurer.
John V. Ducey, Historian.
Julius S. Goldstein, 1st Censor.
Joseph P. Shiels, 2d Censor.
William W. O’Brien, S’g’t.-at-Arms.
io6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
St. Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
This Society is composed of the younger pupils of Carroll
Hall. It was founded April 5, 1875, and has for its object the
study of Elocution, Debate, Literature and cultivation of the
Dramatic xArt. It is one of rhe most flourishing Societies of the
University.
OFFICERS.
FIRST TERM.
Rev. Martin J. Regan,C.S.C.,Director
Rev. Wm. A. Moloney, C.S.C., Pres.
Rev. I). E. Hudson, C. S. C., Critic.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Promoter
Prof. N.A. Preston. Musical Director.
Wm. P. Monahan, 1st Vice-Pres.
T. P. Goldstein, 2d Vice-Pres.
John W. Forbing, Rec. Secretary.
John R. O’Mara, Cor. Secretary.
David S. Wright, Treasurer.
Jacob Wr. Maternes. Serg’t-at-Arms.
Raymond J. McPhee, Censor.
Edward W. Sachsel, Marshal.
George H. Krug. Historian.
Jacob S. Reinhard, / T -u
Robert Barry, f Librarians.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. Wm. A. Moloney, C. S. C., Pres.
Rev. D. E. Hudson, C. S. C., Critic.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. N.A. Preston, Musical Director.
Wm. P. Monahan, 1st Vice Pres.
David S. Wright, 2d Vice-Pres.
John AV. Forbing, Rec. Secretary.
Charles, N. Girsch, Cor. Secretary.
T. P. Goldstein, Treasurer.
Abner Harding, Sergeant-at-Arms.
George H. Krug, Censor.
Jacob W. Maternes, Marshal.
Harold S. Speake, Historian.
Alexander Druecker, ) T
1	4. t>	c JLibi arians.
Robert Barry,
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by the Rev. Thomas E.
Walsh, C. S. C., on November 25, 1877, for the pupils of St.
Edward’s Hall, is the Study of Elocution, and cultivation of
Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,	) Honorarv Direetors
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., fUonoiaU Dnectors.
FIRST TERM.
Rev. J ames J. French. C. S. 0., Director.
Rev. James Burns, C.S.C., Promoter.
Rev. T. Corbett, C.S.C., President.
J. Jonquet, First Vice-President.
A. Bump, Second Vice-President.
J. McCarthy, Cor. Secretary.
E. Dugas, Recording Secretary.
T. Noonan, Treasurer.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. James J.French,0.S.C.,Director.
Rev. James Burns, C.S.C., Promoter.
Rev. T. Corbett, C.S.C., President.
J. McCarthy, First Vice-Presieent.
J. Jonquet, Second Vice-President.
T. Noonar.. Cor. Secretary.
A. Bump, Recording Secretary.
E. Dugas, Treasurer.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
B. Roesing. Librarian.
M. Devine, Marshal.
G. Moxley, Hronitors
G. Abrahams, i 3ionitors-
A.	Ooquillard. Censor.
W. Finnerty, Sergeant-at-Arms.
AV. Dalton. Standard Bearer.
W. Finnerty, Librarian.
B.	Roesing, Marshal.
A. Ooquillard, (Monitors
AY. Dalton, J Alomtois.
M. Devine. Censor.
G. Abrahams, Sergeant at-Arms.
G. Moxley, Standard Bearer.
The University Stock Company.
The aim of this Company which is composed of the best
dramatic talent in the University, is to present the higher forms
of the drama.
Rev. AVilliam A. Moloney, Director.
Joseph A. Marmon, Manager.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Musical Director.
Elmer J. Murphy.
John A. Devanney.
Leigh F. Gibson.
John G. Mott.
Francis AX. Jones.
Arthur M. Funke.
Arthur AV. Stace.
Eustace Cullinan.
Francis AV. Barron.
Thomas T. Cavanagh.
Law.
Moot Court.
OFFICERS.
Hon. AVilliam Hoynes, Judge.
Leigh F. Gibson, Clerk.
James B. Barrett, Assistant Clerk.
James A. AIcKee, Prosecuting Attorney.
Daniel P. Murphy, Assistant Prosecuting Attorney.
Richard J. Halligan, Sheriff.
Charles F. Steele, Deputy Sheriff.
Dr. Ryell T. Miller, Coroner.
Peter AATite, Jr., Referee.
James J. Ryan, Notary Public.
Alphonsus A Heer, ) R t
Arthur AA. Stace, J 1
Court of Chancery.
Hon. AVilliam Hoynes, Chancellor.
Oscar F. Schmidt, Clerk.
Frank E. Stevens, Deputy Clerk.
Richard J. Halligan, sheriff.
AVilliam T. Flynn, Deputy Sheriff,
A. B. Chidester, /_ Masters
James J. Ryan, f in Chancery.
io8
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Probate Court.
James F. Kennedy, Judge.	M. F. Hennebry, Clerk.
Charles Zeitler, Asssistant Clerk.
Justice’s Court.
Peter White, Jr., Justice of the Peace.	Francis M. Keough, Clerk.
Harry A. Miller, Constable.
Supreme Court.
Hon. William Hoynes, Chief Justice.
H°n. Lucius Hubbard I Associate Jutos.
Hon. Abraham L. Brick, J	&
John G. Mott, Clerk.
A. J. Galen, Assistant Clerk.
United. States District Court.
Hon. William Hoynes, Judge.
Francis J. Onzon, Clerk.
James H. Browne, Assistant Clerk.
Thomas D. Mott, Jr., U. S. District Attorney.
Frank P. McManus, Assistant U. S. District Attorney.
E. V. Chassaing, U. S. Marshal.
Thomas J. Mapother, Assistant U. S. Marshal.
United States Commissioner’s Court.
Alphonsus A. Heer, Commissioner.	George N. Anson, Clerk.
The Law Debating Society.
OFFICERS.
FIRST TERM.
Rev. A. Morrissey, Hon. Director.
Col. Wm. Hoynes, President.
James F. Kennedy, 1st Vice-Pres.
James A. McKee, 2d Vice-Pres.
John G. Mott, Recording Secretary.
Richard G. Halligan, Cor, Secretary
Thomas D. Mott, Critic.
James H. Browne, Sergeant-at-Arms
SECOND TERM.
Rev. A. Morrissey, Hon. Director.
Col. William Hoynes, President.
Janies F. Kennedy, 1st Vice-Pres.
James A. McKee, 2d Vice-Pres.
John G. Mott, Recording Secretary.
. Frank P. McManus, Cor. Secretary.
Peter White, Jr., Treasurer.
>. James J. Ryan, Critic.
Albert Galen, Sergeant-at Arms.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
IO9.
Musical.
Choir.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
Bro. Basil, 0. S. 0., Organist.
MEMBERS.
FIRST TENORS.
E. F. Jones.	0. Fitzgerald.
Leigh Gibson.	Geo. Johnson.
SECOND TENORS.
J. A. Marmon.	F. AAT. Barton.
A. Vignos.	Daniel Sullivan.
FIRST BASS.
AV. J. Kegler.	John G. Mott.
AAh B. Golden.	S. Bonnoes.
SECOND BASS.
T. T. Guthrie.	O. F. Schmidt.
J. Dempsey.	P. AVellington.
University Orchestra.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
MEMBERS.
FIRST VIOLIN.
D. Paul.
A. ATgnos.
F.	AV. Barton.
G.	H. Sweet.
G. Henrich, ATola.
J. AV. Forbing, Clarinet.
O. F. Schmidt, Flute.
J. A. Marmon, 1st Cornet.
Elmer Murphy, Trombone.
E. A". Chassing, Bass.
D.	Ar. Mona
SECOND VIOLIN.
J. Rowan.
Leo Adler.
AV. McDermett
G. Hanhauser.
Bro. Leopold, Cello.
F. Harrison, Clarinet.
E.	Rauch, Flute.
AAh J. Kegler, 2d Cornet.
John Guthrie, French Horn,
AAh U. Martin, French Horn.
, Drums.
Orpheus Club.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Hon. President.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, President and Musical Director.
E.	Ah Chassaing, AGce-President.
O. F. Schmidt, Secretary.
F.	AAh Barton, Treasurer.
C.	E. Brinker, Business Manager.
E.	F. Jones.
Geo. Johnson.
Leigh Gibson.
John G. Mott.
Charles Quimby.
J. T. Guthrie.
Glee Club.
T. D. Mott.
F.	P. McManus.
J. A. Marmon.
F. AV. Barton.
P. AATellington.
O. F. Schmidt.
Daniel Sullivan.
A. Vignos.
AV. J. Kegler.
Elmer Murphy.
AAh Golden.
J. Dempsey.
I IO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Mandolin Orchestra.
FIRST MANDOLIN.
F.	AV. Barton.
A. Vignos.
G.	H. Sweet.
F. Roesing.
M. AVigg.
Jolin Kuntz.
SECOND MANDOLIN.
A. PendL’ton.
J. Tuohy.
E.	Taylor.
C. Strong.
T. AV. King.
GUITARS.
THIRD MANDOLIN.
G. Davezac.
F.	H. Pim.
G.	McDonald.
AV. J. Moxley.
F. X. Ackermann.
Daniel Sullivan.
E. A". Chassaing. Cello.
o
J. AV. Forking.
J. Rowan.
E.	F. Jones.
F.	Hesse.
0. F. Schmidt and
VIOLINS.
Geo. Johnson.
G.	Hanhauser.
J. McPhillips.
A. Chidester.
E. Rauch. Flutes.
AV. AIcDermett.
Leo Adler.
University Quartettes.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
VOCAL.
E. F. Jones, 1st Tenor.
Fred. Schillo. 2d Tenner.
E. F. DuBrul. 1st Bass.
E. Schaack, 2d Bass.
MANDOLIN.
F. AV. Barton, 1st.
A. A’ignos. 2d.
A. AGgnos, 1st.
F. AV. Barton, 2d.
O. F. Schmidt. 3d.
E. A". Chassaing, 4th.
VIOLIN.
G. H. Sweet, 3d.
E. A”. Chassaing, 4th.
BRASS.
E. AL Chassaing, 1st Cornet.
J. A. Alarm on. 2d Cornet.
AV. J. Kegler, Alto.
F. AV. Barton, Bariton.
Notre dame University Cornet Band.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Director.
A. A'ignos, Eb Cornet.
J. A. Marmon, Solo Bb Cornet.
AV. McDermott, 2d Cornet.
Geo. Sweet, Solo Alto.
F. Cornell, 2d Alto.
F. O’Brien, 3d Alto.
F. Barton, Euphonium.
E. Murphy, 1st Tenor.
J. Crane, 2d Tenor.
J. Harrison, Eb Clarinet.
A. Karizinski, 1st Bb Clarinet.
T. Guthrie. Bass.
D.	Alonarch, Snare Drum.
E.	A7. Chassaing, Solo Bb Cornet.
T. Alapother, 1st Bb Cornet.
AI. Adler, 3d Bb Cornet.
E.	Jones, 1st Alto.
C. McPhee, 2d Alto.
F.	AVensinger, 3d Alto.
Sidney Corby, Baritone.
T. D. Mott, J., 2d Tenor.
J. H. Kivlin, Solo Trombone.
J. AV. Forbing, Solo Bb Clarinet.
O. F. Schmidt, Piccolo.
W. J. Kegler, Eb Bass.
E.	Coleman, Snare Drum.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
[ 11
Athletic.
The Lemonnier Boat Club.
OFFICERS.
a
Rev. A. Morrissey, 0. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, 0. S. C., President and Treasurer.
Ralph M. Palmer, Commodore.
F FT Ues^p ) .	-
W. J.Moxlev. ' Assistant Commodores.
T. T. Cavanagh, Recording Secretary.
J. A. Marmon, Corresponding Secretary.
CREWS.
‘! GOLDEN JUBILEE. ’ ’
‘ ‘ SILVER JUBILEE. ’'
Ralph L. Palmer, Captain,	No. 1.	Edward E. Brennen,	No. 1.
J. Sidney Corby,	“ 2.	Charles D. McPhee,	“ 2.
Albert T. Spengler,	“ 3.	Hunter M. Bennett,	“ 3.
Arthur T. Chase,	“ 4.	John F. Mullen, Fred. W. Schulte,	“ 4.
Phillip A. Wellington,	“	0.		“	0.
Frank H. Hesse, John C. McGurk, Coxswain.	“ 6.	George N. Johnson.	“ 6. W. J. Moxley, Capt. and Coxswain.	
‘1 MINNEHAHA.' ’
“EVANGELINE.”
George EL Sweet,	No. 1.
Thomas W. King, Captain, “ 2.
Francis <1. AVensinger,	“	3.
Alexander R. Carney,	“	4.
Thomas T. Guthrie,	“	5.
Edward T. Gilmartin,	“	5.
Joseph A. Marmon, Coxswain.
‘ ‘ MONTMORENCY.' ’
Ralph L. Palmer,	Captain, No.	1.
J. Sidney Corby,	“	2.
Phillip A Wellington,	“	3.
Frank EL Hesse,	“	4.
John C. McGurk, Coxswain.
Edgar Crilly,	No.	1.
Fred. J. O’Brien, Captain, “ 2.
Jenaro Davila,	“	3.
Henry W. Mathewson. “ 4.
Francis H. Wagner, “ 5.
Louis E. Brinker, “ 6.
John G. Mott, Coxswain,
“YOSEMITE.”
Hunter M. Bennett,	No.	1.
John F. Mullen,	“	2.
Fred. AV. Schulte,	“	3.
George N. Johnson,	“	4.
W. J. Moxley, Capt. and Coxswain.
112
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
“Hoynes Light Guards.”
OFFICERS.	’
William Hoynes, Colonel.
John W. Miller, Lieutenant Colonel.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Chaplain.
W. Burnett Weaver, Acting Major.
Company A.
W. B. Weaver, Captain.
W. S. Wilkins, First Lieutenant.*
C. M. Montague, Second Lieutenant.
H. A. Wilson, First Sergeant.
T. J. Finnertv, Second Sergeant.
F.	D. Scott, Third Sergeant.
E. T. Gilmartin, Fourth Sergeant. .
G.	U. Lansdowne, First Corporal.
S. J. Shultz, Second Corporal.
C. Atherton, Third Corporal.
C. Quimby, Fourth Corporal.
Company B.
John W. Miller, Captain.
Joseph V. Sullivan, First Lieutenant.
Herbert Miles, Second Lieutenant.
Leo Healy, First Sergeant.
Lucius Miller, Second Sergeant.
Julius Goldstein, Third Sergeant.
Harry Taylor, Fourth Sergeant.
Tillmann Wallace, First Corporal.
J. W. Maternes, Second Corporal.
P. Goldstein, Third Corporal.
Robert Fox, Fourth Corporal.
Robert Miers, Fifth Corporal.
Sorin Cadets.
Thomas A. Quinlan, Captain.
J. Leroy McCarthy, First Lieutenant.
Ernest Dugas, Second Lieutenant.
H. Pollitz, First Sergeant. ,
M. P. Garrity, Second Sergeant.
R. E. Clark, Third Sergeant.
Francis Breslin, Fourth Sergeant.
S. D. Sexton, Fifth Sergeant.
P. J. Fitzgerald, First CorporaL
W. Pollitz, Second Corporal.
L. P. Garrity, Third Corporal.
W. J. Dalton, Fourth Corporal.
T. A. Noonan, Fifth Corporal.
COLLEGE SOCIETIES.
113
Athletic Association.
BROWNSON AND SORIN HALLS.
FIRST TERM.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. Jas. Burns, C.S.C., t Dil.ectort; {
Rev. AV. Moloney, C.S.C., nilcctors-
Bro. Hugh, C. S. 0., Promoter,
Col. AAhn. Moynes, LL. I)., President. <
John P. Barrett, A'ice-President.
James Barry, Recording Secretary. <
Fred J. O’Brien, Corresponding Sec.
AALlliam J. McGinnis. Treasurer.
John AV. Aliller, Field Reporter.
Ed me A". Chassaing,
Daniel AL Casey,
Frank P. McManus,
Thomas T. Cavanagh
Richard G. Halligan,
Rev. Jas. Burns. C. S. C., ? TV ,
Rev. AL. Moloney, C.S.C., f Direclors-
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C., Promoter.
Col. Wm. Hoynes, LL. I)., President.
John P. Barrett, Vice-President.
James Barry. Recording Secretary.
Fred J. O'Brien, Corresponding Sec.
William J. McGinnis, Treasurer.
John AV. Miller, Field Reporter.
J Executive <'om.
CARROLL HALL.
FIRST TERM.
SECOND TERM.
Bro. Alexander, C.S.C., 1
Bro. Albeus, C. S. C., I
Directors.
Je^se AV. Lantry, President.
Herbert II. Miles, ATice-President.
Francis B. Cornell. Secretary,
Leo R. Healy, Treasurer.
John AL Ducey, Reporter.
F. B. Cornell, Capt. Foot Ball Tram.
H. H. Miles. Capt. Base Ball Team.
John B. AATiitehead, '
AVilliam O’Brien,
Bro. Alexander. C.S.C., l
Bro. Albeus, C. S. C., f
Jesse AV. Lantry. Pre.sident.
Herbert H. Miles, ALce-PriMdent.
Francis B. Cornell. Secretary.
Leo R. Healy. Treasurer.
John AL Ducey, Reporter.
F. B. Cornell. Vapt. Foot Ball Team.
H. H. Miles, (’apt. Base Ball Team.
Geo. P. McCarrick. {-Executive Committee.
Thomas A. Lowery, i
AALn. P. Alo nah an, 1
The University Cycling- Clubs.
ST. LAAVRENCE CLUB.
BROWNSON HALL.
Rev. AI. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
A. AV. Campbell, President.
F.	AAL Schulte, ATce President.
C. I). AlcPhec, Captain.
C. T. Cullen, 1st Lieutenant.
G.	H. Sweet, 2d Lieutenant.
C. Montague, Rec. Secretary.
C. Quimby, Cor. Secretary.
L. AI. Brinker, Treasurer.
A. Clark, Color Bearer.
ST. ALBEUS CLUB.
CARROLL HALL.
Rev. B. Ill, C. S. C., Director.
Leo R. Healy, President.
Frank Roesing, ATce President.
Albert Dannemiller, Rec. Secretary.
Samuel Dixon, Cor. Secretary.
Robert Fox, Captain.
Oliver Tong, 1st Lieutenant.
AI. A’. Alonarch, 2d Lieutenant.
AA'aldo H*ealy, Treasurer.
Alfred Pendleton, Color Bearer.
ii4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Tennis Club.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
W. S. Wilkin, President.
T. T. Cavanagh, Vice President.
Fred. O’Brien, Treasurer.
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE.
0. S. Quimby.	E. E. Brennan.
George N. Johnson.
Hand Ball Association.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. Hilarion, 0. S. 0., Director.
Frank H. Hesse, President.
Ralph L. Palmer, Vice President.
William A. Fagan, Secretary.
Clarence A. Corry, Treasurer.
A. J. Galen,
Norwood R. Gibson, |
Edward Gilmartin, Committee of Arrangements.
Burnett Weaver,
George M. Anson, „
Raymond O’Malley, Umpire.
Thomas Finnerty, Official Scorer.
Charles Montague, Reporter.
CARROLL HALL.
H. H. Miles, President.
John B. Whitehead, Vice President.
Jesse W. Lantry, Secretary.
Leo R. Healy, Treasurer.
William B. Monahan, Scorer.
John V. Ducey, Umpire.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
115
Conferring of Degrees.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
His Excellency Claude Mathews, Governor of Indiana.
John Brisben Walker, New York City.
Very Rev. Joseph F. Mooney, V. G., New York City.
Henry J. Spaunhorst, St. Louis, Mo.
Austin O’Malley, Washington, D. C.
Richard Malcolm Johnston, Baltimore, Md.
Rev. Hugh O’Gara McShane, Chicago, Ill.
Washington Hesing, Chicago, Ill.
Cavalier F. J. Singenberger, St. Francis, Wis.
Rev. Joseph F. Nugent, Des Moines, Iowa.'
James R. Randall, Washington, D. C.
Edward L. Greene, San Francisco, Cal.
Rev. Luke McCabe, Overbrook, Penn.
William Dillon, Chicago, Ill.
Rev. Washington Gladden, Columbus Ohio.
Hon. John R. Fellows, New York City.
Rev. John Mullaney, Syracuse, N. Y.
Dr. W. H. Wathen, Louisville, Ky.
Rev. Francis O’Brien, Kalamazoo, Mich.
William A. Byrne, Covington, Ky.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
William R. Claxton, New York City.
James Caren, Columbus, Ohio.
Rev. John B. McGrath, Gardiner, N. Y.
Ernest F. DuBrul, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Rev. Nathan J. Mooney, Chicago, Ill.
Thomas A. Connolly, Cleveland, Ohio.
Harold V. Hayes, Chicago, Ill.
Very Rev. Edward McLaughlin, Clinton, Iowa.
Rev. James A. Burns, Notre Dame, Ind.
Il6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
General St. Clair Mulholland; New York.
L. W. Reilly, Baltimore, Md.
Rev. Tiburtius Goebel, Steubenville, Ohio.
Jobson E. H. Paradis, Paris, France.
Homer P. Brelsford, Eastland, Texas.
Rev. Clement Burger, Lancaster, Penn.
Charles T. Cavanagh, Chicago, Ill.
Rev. Daniel J. McGlaughlin, Niles, Mich.
J. Humphrey Desmond, Milwaukee, Wis.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on
William T. Ball, Chicago, Ill.
William Dechant, Franklin, Ohio.
Ferdinand B. Kuhn, Nashville, Tenn.
John W. Guthrie, South Bend, Ind.
Edward Sorin Ewing, Lancaster, Ohio.
Clarence T. Hagerty, Santa Fe, New Mexico.
William P. McPhee, Denver, Col.
Charles Paquette, Indianapolis, Ind.
Edward J. Maurus, Rock Island, Ill.
Leo J. Scherrer, East St. Louis, Ill.
The Degree of Master of Letters was conferred on
Frederick E. Neef, Springfield, Ill.
*
The Degree of Master of Science in Biology was conferred on
Edward M. Shaack, Chicago, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Music was conferred on
Newton A. Preston, Notre Dame, Indiana.’
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Daniel P. Murphy, Lewisburg, Penn.
Eustace Cullinan, San Francisco, Cai
Michael Ryan, Danville, Ill.
Samuel A. Walker, Grafton, North Dakota.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Daniel V. Casey, Crawfordsville, Ind.
Francis W. Davis, Rockford, Ill.
Arthur P. Hudson, Hanging Rock, Ohio.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.	II/
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Elmer A. Scherrer, East St. Louis, Ill.
William Walter Marr, Chicago Ill.
John A. Devanney, Philadelphia, Penn.
Nicholas S. Dinkel, Springfield, Ohio.
The Degree of Civil Engineering was conferred on
Arthur M. Funke, Denver, Col.
John F. Hervey, Austin Tex.
John J. Dempsey, Manistee, Mich.
Hugh C. Mitchell, Edna, Tex.
Albert T. Karasynski, Camden, Ind.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
Abraham L. Brick, South Bend, Ind.
James Francis Kennedy, Jacksonville, Ill.
Leigh F. Gibson, Peoria, Ill.
Abraham B. Chidester, Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Thomas Dillingham Mott, Los Angeles, Cal.
John Griffin Mott, Los Angeles, Cal.
Peter P. White, South Amana, Iowa.
James A. McKee, Versailles, Ky.
Richard Graham Halligan, St. Louis, Mo.
Ryell Tobias Miller, South Bend, Ind.
Frank J. Onzon, Corpus Christi, Texas.
Oscar Fries Schmidt, Rock Island, Ill.
Edme Vincent Chassaing, St. Louis Alo.
Francis E. Duffield, Lima, Ohio.
118
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Commercial Diplomas.
Arthur W. Campbell, Chicago, Ill.
Albert J. Dannemiller, Canton, Ohio.
Julius Goldstein, New York.
Tobias Goldstein, New York.
Edward J. Gainer, Chicago, Ill.
Francis H. Lyons, Louisville, Ohio.
John Mullen, Iona, Mich.
William P. Monahan, Chicago, Ill.
Herbert H. Miles, Denver, Col.
Martin Schnur, Goshen, Ind.
James Smith, St. Joseph, Mich.
John E. Tempel, Chicago, Ill.
John B. Whitehead, Bowling Green, Ky.
William S. Wilkin, Bay City, Mich.
Charles M. Montague, Niles, Mich.
George A. Krug, Dayton, Ohio.
Certificates for Telegraphy—
David Conger, Flat Rock, Ind.
Joseph Ludwig, Huntington, Ind.
Daniel D. Monarch, Owensboro, Ky.
Charles W. Wagner, Dayton, Ohio.
SPECIAL PRIZE MEDALS.
119
Special Prize Medals.
The Mason Medal for the student of Carroll Hall having the
best record for the scholastic year was awarded to
JOHN F. FENNESSEY,
Boston, Mass.
The Meehan Medal for excellence in English was awarded to
DANIEL V. CASEY,
Crawfordsville, Ind.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory was awarded to
EUSTACE CULLINAN,
San Francisco, Cal.
The Grand Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson
Hall, First Course, was awarded to
JAMES D. BARRY,
Chicago, Ill.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall,
First Course, was awarded to
JESSE W. LANTRY,
Chatsworth, Ill.	.
Senior Class — Classical Course.
The Quan Gold Medal was awarded to
Daniel P. Murphy, Lewisburg, Penn.
Special Courses.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall was awarded to
John G. Mott, Los Angeles, Cal.
The Elocution Medal in Carroll Hall was awarded to
P. M.Kuntz, Chicago, Ill.
Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall was awarded to
*	Patrick J. Reardon, Sing Sing, N. Y.
120	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
St. Edward’s Hall.
The Sorin Association Gold Medal was awarded to
John Le Roy McCarthy.
The Gold Medal for Elocution was awarded to
William Finnerty.
Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Marco Devine.
Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Henry McCorry.
Gold Medal for Piano was awarded to
Jay Moorehouse.
Gold Medal for Politeness was awarded to
Daniel B. Spillard.
Gold Medal for excellence in Studies was awarded to
Gerald Maurice Egan. Alexis Coquillard, Joseph Coquillard, Edwin
Elliott. Edmund Swan, P. J. Fitzgerald, Leo Kelly,
Alexander Bump.
Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Bernard Roesing.
Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Thomas P. Sexton.
Silver Medal for Application was awarded to
Jeremiah Jonquet.
Silver Medal for Piano was awarded to
Victor H. Steele, Ernest L. Dagan and Willianm W. Durand.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
121
First Honor Awards.
First Honors art1 awarded to students of Brownson Hall who have
attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for scholarship and deportment
during the scholastic year. The first honor awarded for the first year takes
the form of a diploma: that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is
a gold medal. This medal mav be renewed from vear to vear.
CT	t	«-	t
FIRST HONOR GOLD MEDALS
Brownson Hail.
First Honor Medal was awarded to Horace A. Wilson, Red Wing,
Minnesota.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Julius A. zArce, Arequipa, Peru,
South America: James D. Barry, Chicago, Ill., William J. Burke, Ottawa,
Ill.: Ralph Palmer, Fort Hanchancas, Arizona: Patrick J. Reardon, Sing
Sing. N. Y.: 'William S. Sheehan, Hancock, Mich.: Martin S. Costello,
Chicago, Ill.; Eugene A. Delaney, Lykens, Penn.
DEPORTMENT PRIZE MEDALS.
Cold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll Hall and
St. Edward’s Hall who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose
deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.
Carroil Hall.
J. AV. Bloomfield.
J. P. Benz.
R. L. Fox.
J. McShane.
C. Roc key.
AV. Connor.
A. Dannemiller.
J. AV. Lantrv.
AV. Monahan.
F. Roesing.
J. A". Sullivan.
J. Tempel.
o
T. Lowery.
St. Edward’s Hall.
Thomas E. McCarthy, George AV. Moxley, Thomas E. Noonan, John L,
McCarthy, Robert McIntyre, AVilliam Finnerty.
122	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Silver Medals for deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll Hall and
St. Edward's Hall-who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose
deportment has given general satisfaction.
Carroll Hall.
L, Thompson. E. McCarthy. J. Maternes. T. Burns.
St. Edward’s Hall.
William Dalton. Victor Steele. Roy Hess. Arthur Allyn.
James Hershey.
Charles Kelly.
DEPOPTMENT CERTIFICATES.
Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll Hall and St. Edward’s
Hall who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms
and whose deportment during the -whole time has been unexceptionable.
Carroll Hall.
R. Barrv.	A. Kasper.	C. Shillington.
A. Ball.	P. Kuntz.	A. Spillard.
John Corby.	J. Kuntz.	G. Stuhlfauth.
Joseph A. Corby.	G. Krug.	C. Strong.
A. Erhart.	M. Kirk.	B. Tatman.
J. Forbing.	W. Morris.	J. Tuohy.
M. Feltenstein.	M. V. Monarch.	0. W. Tong.
J. Goldstein.	G. McCarrick.	F. Ward.
E. Gainer.	A. Pendleton.	0. Wells.
C. Gausepohl.	C. Reuss.	C. Murray.
W. Healy.	H. Speake.	T. Watterson.
G. Keeffe.	J. Shiels.	
	St. Edward’s Hall.	
Francis D. Breslin.	Robert A. Kasper.	Francis W. Waite.
Frederic A. Brissenden.	John A. Sontag.	Francis Welch.
Henry J. Cassady.	George W. Leach.	Thomas L. Sexton.
P. J. Fitzgerald.	Daniel B. Spillard.	Bertram H. Nye.
Leo J. Kelly.	Edgar L. Strauss.	Maurice A. Jonquet.
Jasper H. Lawton.	William Pollitz.	
PREMIUM LIST.
123
Premium List.
Burns, William P.
Barton, Francis AV.
Casey, Daniel V.
Cullinan, Eustace
Devanney, John, A.
Davis, Francis AV.
Dempsey, John J.
Eyanson, Francis E.
Funke, Arthur AI.
Anderson, Frederick
Arce, Julius A.
Ainsworth, Chas. Sidney
Adler, Michael L.
Barry, James
Baird, Perry C.
Brown, James H.
Byrne, John M.
Burke, William J.
Burke, AVilliam P.
Brinker, Louis E.
Bennett, Hunter M.
Britz, Nicholas
Browne, Robert P.
Clark, Alfred
Coleman, Eugene
Corby, J. Sidney
Crane, Jas. H.
Craft, Charles
Campbell, Patrick F.
Carney, Alex R.
Cavanagh, Thos. T.
Costello, Martin J.
Campbell, Arthur AV.
Crilly, Edgar
Cullen, Charles T.
Cavanagh, Joseph D.
Carroll, Patrick
Davis, Alfred N.
Dowd, John J.
Delaney, Eugene T.
Daley, Alichael T.
Davila, Jenaro
Dillon, Francis I).
Dalton, Patrick
Dwyer, Va. D.
Folien, Peter E.
Sorin Hall.
Hervey, John F.
Hudson, Arthur P.
Murphy, Daniel P.
Murphy, John B.
Marr, William AV.
Mott, John G.
Mitchell, Hugh C.
Murray, James A.
AIcKee, John E.
Brownson Hall.
Fagan, AVilliam A.
Falvey, Edward B.
Fer a, Adolph C.
Foulks, Charles
Gilpin, Louis P.
Gibson, Norwood R.
Gilmartin, Edward T.
Golden, AValter C
Galen, Albert J.
Gradv, AVilliam P.
Griffin, John
Gallagher, Hugh
Henry, Harvey E.
Herman, Adam G.
Hanhauser, George J.
Harrison, J. Frank
Hindel, AVilliam
Howley, Thomas M.
Hierholzer, Edward J.
Hogan, John J. Ill.
Hesse, Francis H.
Hentges, Edward
Hengen, W. Charles
Howell, John E.
Hennebry, Alichael F.
Hinde, John R.
Haydon, James
Jones, E. Francis
Johnson, George N.
Kegler, William C.
Kortas, Bruno J.
Kaul, Frank
King, Thomas W.
Kinsella, Roger
Kulamer, John
Ludwig, Joseph
Landa, Louis O.
Oliver, Burton W.
Prichard, Armstead M.
Pulskamp, George F.
Ryan, Alichael
Stace, Arthur W.
Slevin, Richard S.
A'ignos, Alfred A.
AATalker, Samuel A.
Lawlor, AVm. J.
Lassig. Louis
Lansdowne, Geo. U.
Lyon, Francis H.
Lindsay, James
Alathewson, Henry W.
Alurphy, Elmer J.
Aledley, Thomas A.
Alulroney, Chas. H.
Monarch, Daniel D.
Aloxlev, William J.
Milled John W.
Masters, Thomas D.
Montague, Charles M.
Alonahan. John J.
Alonahan, Richard C.
Alonahan, Bartley J.
Aloore, John P.
Miller, Harry A. Ind.
Alonahan, Bartholomew-
Alullen, John
McHugh, Or vine, J.
McGinnis, AVm. J.
AIcCord, Andrew L.
McCarty, AVm. J. T.
McGreevey, Owen J.
AIcCarthy, Thomas D.
Ney, Michael N.
O’Mally. Raymond G.
Oldshue, Louis L.
Oberly, Amos E.
O’Connor, John
Palmer, Ralph L.
Pulskamp, Edward H.
Piquette, Chas. J.
Reardon, Patrick A.
Rowan, Joseph A.
124
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kyan. Robert E.
Rosenthal. Jacob
Roper. Eugem1 L.
Reilly, Thomas B.
Roy, John
Schulte. Fred AV.
Sheehan. AVm. F.
Scott. Francis I).
Smoger. Francis A.
Schultz. Stephen I.
Austin. Maurice C.
xldler. Leo
Bloomfield. John AV.
Bail. Alphonsos J.
Bartlett. Glenn ( .
Barry. John AV.
Burns. Thomas I).
Barn. Robert E.
Benz. Joseph P.
Browne. .lames AV.
Beruan, AATlIiam
Benmdt. James
Cottin. Daniel S.
Cornell. Francis B.
Corry. John Basil
Clune, Timothy C.
Connor. AATlliam T.
Corby. John
Corby. Joseph A.
Cypher. George A.
Cullen. Thomas E.
Ducey. John Ah
Dannemiller. Albert J.
Druecker, Alex. J.
Dalton. John T.
Davezac. Gabriel P.
DeLorimier, Arthur
Dreyer. Francis
Erhart. Aloysius J.
Flynn. John P.
Fo bing. John AV.
Farley, Arthur J.
Fenuessey. John F.
Franey, Robert F.
Feltenstein, Maurice
Fitzgibbon, Dan F.
Fox, Robert L.
Girsch. Charles N.
Goldstein, Julius
Gimbel. Eugene A.
Gausepohl, Charles F.
Gainer, Edward J.
Goldsmith, Herbert S.
Steele, Sherman
Smoger. Clem S.
Streicher. Jerome F.
Schmidt, Oscar F.
Sanders. Jas. J.
Sweet, (Jeorge H.
Schumacher. M.
Singler. R. G.
Turner. Charles JI.
Carroll HalL
Howard. George A.
Hayes, John E.
Hayes. Arthur T.
Healv. Leo R.
Heafv, AValdo AV.
Hoban, Thomas AI.
Herrera, Manuel
Hagerty, Jerry
Ilwr. Edward F.
Heer, Leander L.
Hagan, Charles C.
Hayes. John
Jono, Harn AI.
Jones, A’itus
Keeffe. George1 H.
Kasper, Adam J.
Kasper. George AAA
Kasper. Fred J.
Kuntz, Peder AI.
Kuntz. John L.
Konzon, John J.
Krug, George A.
Kirk. Alilton A.
Lichtenwaiter. Arthur B,
Long. Alber; Ah
Lantry, Jesse AAA
Langley, (diaries D.
Leonard. Joseph B.
Lowery, Thomas A.
Lane, James T.
Lansdowne, Herman AAh
Long, Edward
Miles, Herbert H.
Alorris, AVilliam T.
Alaternes, Jacob AY
Monarch, Alartin A”.
Alonahan, AVilliam P.
Aloran, Edward P.
Alassey, AArynter C.
Alaurer, Joseph AV..
Alurray, Clarence E.
Alinnigerode, Charles
Miters, Robert N.
Tinnen, Buford
AA’ilson. Horace A.
AA’eaver. AAr. Burnett
AVensinger, Frances J.
AVilkin, AArilliam S.
AViss. John H.
AVagner. Francis IL
AVellington. Philip A.
AA'urzer, L. J.
Alorris, Fred
Alurray. Roy x\.
Aloss, Claude S.
AlcShane, John F.
McCarthy, Eugene E.
AIcPhilips, Joseph A.
AlcPhee, Raymond J.
AIcKenzie, Edward
AIcCarrick, George P.
AIcGinley, James F.
AIcDonald, Stewart •
Alarr, AVilliam
AI c Dani el, George
Naughton, David A.
Naughton. Thomas AI.
Nevins. George AV.
Neville, Alaurice A.
Nieuwland. Julius A.
O'AI^ra, John R.
O'Brien, AVilliam AV.
Oswald, Alichael
Oswald, Alathias
O'Conner, Edward
Plunkett, Fred A.
Pendleton. Alfred J.
Pim. Howard F.
Powell. Ralph E.
Powers, James I.
Parnell, Lawrence
Quandt, Otto E.
Rockey, Charlies A.
Reuss, Charles J.
Rauch, Edward
Roesing, Frank AL
Rasche, Henry A.
Sachsel, Edward J.
Speake, Harold E.
Sheils, Joseph P.
Spillard, Arthur I).
Stuhlfauth, George1
Smith, Patrick
Storey, Hubert
Shillington, Charles J.
Sheeky, Joseph .J.
Sullivan, Joseph Ah
Stearns, Henry C.
Schaack, Charles W.
Strong. Charles T.
Scott. Howard II.
Smith, Floyd L.
Steiner, John B.
Smith, Thomas
Schnur, M. J.
Thompson, Louis S.
PREMIUM LIST.
Taylor, Henry E.
Taylor, Francis C.
Tong, Oliver W.
Tatman, Bernard W.
Tuohy. Joseph J.
Tempel, John E.
Thalman, Harry A.
Trahey, James
Underwood, Lynn R.
Whilehead. John B.
I25
Ward, Francis R.
Wallace, Tillman
Watterson, Theodore V.
Waters. Francis J.
Wright. David S.
Wigg, Max es (1.
AVells. Charles D.
Wilmarth, G. E.
Wurzer, F. II.
Zitter. Carl
Abrahams, George
Abrahams, Louis L.
Allyn, Arthur
Audibert, Eugene P.
Bullene, Johh T.
Brinckerholf, Water E.
Bump, Alexander
Breslin, Francis 1).
Brissenden, Fred A.
Boyton, Cornelius
Boy ton Paul
Cottin, Francis S.
Curry, Joseph
Corcoran, Joseph P.
Cressy, Clement G.
Clarke, Robert
Coquillard, Alexis
Coquillard, Joseph A.
Catchpole, Robert J.
Cassady. Henry J.
Collins, Burton W.
Carruthers. Francis J.
Clarke. R.
Cotter, Peacy V.
Dugas, Ernest L.
Dugas, Graham
Dalton, William J.
Devine Marcus
Durand, William W.
Davis, Grover C.
St. 12(1 ward’s Hall.
Elliott, Edwin E.
Egan, Gerrald M.
Finnerty, William M.
Fitzgerald, Philander J.
Ford, Henry
Golf, Dorset J.
Garrity, MeNellis P. L.
Garrity, Leo J. M.
Graham, Percy C.
Herschey. James E.
Hart, Lawrence A.
Hess, Rox C.
Hess Frances F.
Hawkins. Burchard G.
Jonquet, Jeremiah E.
Jonquet, Mourice
Kelly, Leo
Kasper, Eobert A.
Kelly, Charles
Kopf, George M.
Lawton, Jasper II.
Leach, George W.
Lovell, Willard T.
Mooreliouse, Jay E.
Moxley, Georm* T.
Mitchell, Stanley B.
McCorry, Henry
McIntyre, Robert F.
McCarthy, John L.
McCarthy, Thomas E.
McCarthy. J. Gerald
Me Elroy, James E.
McNamara, George F.
McNichols. Wm. J.
Noonan, Thomos E.
Nye, F. Bertram
Nye. E. Cullen
Newman, Lloyd I).
Pollitz. IlWnry
Pollitz. William
Plunkett, William J.
Paul, Clement
Quertinmont. George
Q u e r t i n mo n t. Edgar
Roesinm Bernard W.
Rasche. Leo J.
Rasche. Dennis R.
Robb, Wm. B.
Swan. Edmund F.
Spillard. Daniel B.
Strauss, Edgar L.
Steele, Victor H.
Sexton, Thomas I).
Sontag, John IL
Thompson, Urban
Van Dyke, James A.
Van Dyke, George F.
Waite, Francis W.
Welch. Francis
Weidemann. George S.
126
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
PRELIMINARY EXERCISES OF THE
Fifty=first Annual Commencement.
Contest in Elocution.
Washington Hall, June 3rd, 1895.
Sorin and Brownson Halls.
PART I.
“Oxen Martia”
“The Uncle”
“Fontenoy”
“Napoleon Bonaparte”
“Parrhasius”
“Wolsey”
“The Corsican”
Roielaien
- Mr. John A. Devanney
Mr. Thomas J. Finnerty
Mr. A. G. Hermann
Mr. Edward E. Brennan
Mr. Peter J. White
Mr. J. G, Mott
Carroll Hall.
PART II.
Overture—Don Juan
“The Volunteer Organist ”
“Parrhasius” -
“The Polish Boy”
“Kate Shelley” -
“The Ticket Guard” -
“Seminole’s Defiance”
“Kate Shelley”
“Trying to Lick the Teacher”
“Marc Antony’s Oration”
“Somebody’s Darling”
N. A. Mogart
G. A. Krug
Leo R. Healy
Julius Goldstein
W. W. O’Brien
P. M. Kuntz
E. J. Sachsel
H. M. Jones
P. E. Moran
J. V. Ducey
G. P. McCarrick
I Rev. J. P. Dore, Chiacgo, Ill.
Judges:-/ Mr. Edward Poland, Chicago, Ill.
( Rev. D. McGlaughlin, Niles, Mich.
LAWN CONCERTS.
127
Lawn Concerts.
GIVEN BY THE
University Cornet Band,
Monday, June 10th, 1895.
PROGRAMME.
1.	On the Field, -	-	-	-	-	- J. O. Casey
2.	Bohemian Girl, ______ Balfe
3.	Song and Dance — Ida May, -	-	-	_ Peck
4.	Intermezzo — Reve Apres La Fete, -	Lath
5.	Knight’s Waltzes, ------ Knight
i.	World’s Fair Overture, -	Feagans
2.	Jubilee Quickstep, ------	Barnard
3.	Piccolo Solo—Thro’ the Air, -	Damm
Mr. O. F. Schmidt.
4.	Military Gavotte, ------ Goldsmith
5.	Nahant, ------- Thomas
8:00 p. m., Grand Illumination on St. Joseph’s Lake.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Tuesday Evening, June nth, 1895.
PROGRAMME.
I.	March — Referee,	-	-	-	-	-	- Hume
2.	Overture — L’espoir de TAlsace, -	-	-	Hermon
3-	Squeegee Polka, -----	- J. O. Casey
4-	Great Mogul Waltz,	-	-	-	-	- Southwell
5-	American Patrol,	_	_	_	_	-	Meacham
I.	A Trip to Chinatown — Selections,	-	-	- Gaunt
2.	Jolly Fellow’s Waltz	-	-	-	-	- Vollstedt
3-	Queen’s Favorite Gavotte,	-	-	-	Jules J Vali er
4-	Mannana Chilian Dance, -	-	-	-	- Missud
5-	Notre Dame Quickstep, -	-	-	-	-	Preston
Wednesday Evening, June 12th, 1895.
PROGRAMME.
1.	March — American Cadets, ----- Hall
2.	Band Union Overture, -	-	-	-	- Southwell
3.	Cornet Solo — Minor Polka, ----- Coule
Mr. E. V. Chassaing.
4.	Anvil Chorus — Il Trovatore, -	-	-	- Verdi
5.	Barn Dance — Up to Date, -	-	-	-	- Bonte
1.	Overture — Amazon, _____ Ed Kiesler
2.	Salvation Army, ------ Orth
3.	Distant Greeting, ------ Doring
4.	Mannana Chilian Dance. (By request) -	- Missud
5.	Comic Tattoo,	______	Fahrboch
ANNUAL EXAMINATIONS.
129
Annual Examinations.
Friday, Saturday, Monday, June, 7-10.
BOARD OF EXAMINERS.
Under the supervision of Rev. President Morrissey.
CLASSICAL COURSE.
Rev. N. J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. S. Fitte, Rev. P. Klein,
Rev. J. Cavanaugh; Prof. J. F. Edwards, Prof. Wm. Hoynes,
Prof. M. F. Egan, Prof. L. McGriskin, Prof. J. G. Ewing,
secretary.
SCIENTIFIC COURSE.
Rev. J. A. Zahm, presiding; Rev. A. M. Kirsch, Rev. J.
Kirsch, Rev. J. Burns; Prof. F. X. Ackermann, Prof. M. J.
McCue, secretary.
* .
LAW COURSE.
(To be examined on the 8th and 10th.'}
Prof. William Hoynes, presiding; Rev. J. J. French, Rev. A.
M. Kirsch, Rev. S. Fitte; Hon. T. E Howard, Hon. L.
Hubbard, Hon. J. Gibbons, Hon. A. L. Brick, secretary; Prob
G. E. Clarke, Prof. J. Ewing.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
Rev J. J. French, presiding; Rev. B. Ill, Rev. J. Just; Bro.
Theogene, Bro. Philip Neri3 Prof. J. D McGee, Prof. M. O’Dea,
secretary; Prof. E. J. Maurus.
PREPARATORY COURSE, BROWNSON HALL.
Rev. W. Maloney, presiding; Rev. M. Donahue, Rev. J.
Maguire; Bro. Eeander, secretary; Bro. Emmanuel, Bro. Louis,
Prof. Preston.
PREPARATORY COURSE, CARROLL HALL.
Rev. M. J. Regan, presiding; Rev. T. A. Corbett, secretary;
Bro. Alexander, Bro. Hugh, Bro. Albius, Bro. Cajetan, Bro.
Alphonsus, Prof. C. FitzGerald.
130
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
■S,
Grand Review.
University Light Guards and Sorin Cadets.
June 9, 1895,-4:30 P. M.
Col. Wm. Hoynes, Commanding.
*
AWARDING OF MEDALS.
The gold medal presented to the best drilled private in Co. A,
was won by F. D. Scott, Montgomery, Ala.
The gold medal presented to the best drilled private in Co. B,
was won by Howard Pim, St. Louis, Mo.
The gold medal presented to the best drilled private in the
Sorin Cadets, was won by George Moxley, Chicago, Ill.
GOLDEN JUBILEE.
131
EXERCISES
Commemorating the Golden Jubilee
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Tuesday, Wednesday and Thursday,
June 11, 12 and 13, 1895.
Notre Dame, -	- Indiana.
Tuesday, June 11th.
9:00 a. m.—Pontifical High Mass of Thanksgiving by the Most
Reverend William Henry Elder, D. D., Archbishop of
Cincinnati. Sermon by the Most Reverend John Ireland,
D. D., Archbishop of St. Paul.
12:00	m.—Dinner.
2:00 p. m.—Visit of our Guests to the various departments.
3:00 p. m.—Commencement Exercises in St. Edward’s Hall.
Field Sports on Brownson Hall Campus.
6:00 p. M.—Supper.
6:20 p. m —Lawn Concert by the University Band.
7:30 p. m.—Exercises by the Alumni in Washington Hall.
PROGRAMME.
1.	Grand Overture — “Zampa,” -	-	-	- Harold
University Orchestra.
2.	Grand Chorus by the Alumni,	11 Notre Dame of the Past”
Music arranged from the Opera Semiramis by Rossini.
3.	Oration, -	-	-	“ Reminiscences of Notre Dame ”
The Reverend E. B. Kilroy, D. D., Class of ’59.
4.	Mandolin Sextette with guitar and autoharp accompaniment
“The Chimes of Notre Dame”	Preston
132
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
5.	Oration, -	“ Notre Dame and Religious Education ”
The Very Reverend E. J. McLaughlin, Class of ’75.
6.	Vocal Quartette—“Welcome”	-	-	- Morhing
Messrs. Jones, Schillo, DuBrul, Schaack.
7.	Poem, -	- Hon. T. E. Howard, LL. D., Class of ’68
8.	Oration, ______ “Alma Mater”
Mr. William P. Breen, Class of ’77.
Closing Remarks by His Excellency Claude Matthews,
Governor of the State of Indiana.
Finale — “America,”	------ Thomas
University Orchestra.
Wednesday, June 12th
8:00 a. m.—Pontifical Requiem Mass for the Deceased Alumni
and Benefactors of the University, by the Right Reverend
Joseph Rademacher, D. D., Bishop of Fort Wayne. Ser-
mon by the Reverend Nathan J. Mooney, Class of ’77,
Chicago.
10:30 a. m.—Regattas on St. Joseph’s Lake.
12:00	m.—Dinner.
2:00 p. m.—Athletic Contest on Brownson Hall Campus.
6:00 p. m.—Supper.
6:20 p. m.—Lawn Concert by the University Band.
7:00 p. m.—Exercises by the Graduating Class in Washington
Hall.
PROGRAMME.
1.	Grand Overture—“Fidelio,” -	-	- Beethoven
University Orchestra.
2.	Grand Jubilee Ode Chorus, “ Notre Dame of the Present ”
Words by Maurice Francis Egan, music arranged from
Stearns’ “Awake,” etc.
ORATORICAL CONTEST.
ORATORICAL CONTEST.*
4.	Oration — Eloquence and Liberty, -	- “Esto Vir”
Mr. Daniel P. Murphy.
5.	Flute Solo—“Raphaela” opus 148,	-	- A. Terschaak
Mr. Oscar F. Schmidt. Accompanist, Mr. Lewis E. Brinker.
6.	Oration—The Letter and the Spirit, -	- “ Excelsius ”
Mr. Eustace Cullinan.
7.	Grand Concert Selection—“ Our Jubilee,” -	- Preston
Orpheus Mandolin Orchestra.
8.	Oration—Character and Country, - “Pro Aris et Focis”
Mr. Thomas D. Mott, Jr.
9.	Vocal Quartette—“The Sweetest Time for Dreaming,”
Messrs. Jones, DuBrul, Schillo, Schaack. Hodgman
* Judges— Rev. A. A. Lambing, Wilkinsburg, Pa., Rev. J. Havens Rich-
ards, S. J., President, Georgetown, D. 0.. M. William Dillon, Chicago, Ill.
ORATION OF THE DAY.
Right Reverend John Lancaster Spalding, D. D., Bishop of Peoria.
Finale—“Hail Columbia,” - - Thomas-Tobani.
Thursday, June 13th.
8:30 a. m.—Closing Exercises in Washington Hall.
PROGRAMME.
1.	Vocal Quartette, -	“Home, Sweet Home”
Messrs. Jones, Schillo, Du Brul, Schaack.
2.	Class Poem,	________
Mr. Daniel V. Casey.
3.	Valedictory,	________
Mr. Samuel A. Walker.
4.	Awarding of Honors, Conferring of Degrees, etc.
5.	Finale — “Notre Dame Quickstep,” -	-	- Preston
University Band.
134
NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC.
THE “NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC”
Is the title of a neat 24-page paper, devoted to the interests of
the students, and is published at the University every week
during Term time. This journal opens a field for young writers
who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their
talents to remain inactive.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive literary
character, interesting Biographical sketches, Essays, Poetry,
Notes on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notes of New
Publications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has a
special importance for students, their parents, and all who have
attended classes at the University in times past, on account of
the weekly summary of events happening at Notre Dame, per-
sonal notices of former students, Rolls of Honor, Class Honors,
List of Excellence, etc., which appear in its columns every week.
Reports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of
the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find a place
in this paper, and keep parents and others informed on all that
concerns their children and friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors during the coming year
to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past, and the
encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
$1.50 PER ANNUM, POSTPAID.
address “T|ie Notre Dame Scholastic,”
Notre Dame, Indiana.
st. mary’s academy.
135
St. Mary’s Academy.
One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.
T. MARY’S ACADEMY', for young ladies, now entering upon its
41st year of active educational work, lias earned the reputation of
being one of the most thoroughly equipped and successful institu-
tions in the United States. The location is on the dividing ridge of
the St. Lawrence and Mississippi river systems, in the highest and
healthiest part of the state.
The Academy buildings—large, well ventilated and commodious,
heated with steam, supplied with hot and cold water, and with fire-
escapes of the latest and best kind—are beautifully situated on an
eminence overlooking the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical education are
taught by a Faculty of competent teachers. Latin, French and German,
Plain Sewing, and every variety of Fancy Needlework are taught without
extra charge. Book-keeping in the regular course; Phonography and
Type-writing extra.
The Conservatory of Music
is conducted on the plan of the best classical Conservatories of Europe
Three instrumental lessons, and one in theory, weekly, are included in the
regular tuition; extra practice pro rata.
The Art Department
is modeled after the best Art Schools of Europe.
Preparatory and Minim Departments,
Pupils who need primary training, and those of tender age, are here
carefully prepared for the Academic course.
For catalogue containing full information, address
MOTHER SUPERIOR,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame, P. O., Ind.
INDEX.
Board of Trustees........................................................... 3
Officers of the University.................................................. 4
If acuity.................................................................
Prospectus.................................................................. 1°
Historical—Material Equipment of the University—Surroundings—Accessibility
—Discipline—General Remarks.
Expenses :
Preparatory and Collegiate; Department............................... 21
Minim Department— For Boys under 13 years of age..................... 10
Programme of Studies:
Preparatory Department............................................... 22
Collegiate Department—Classical Course............................... 28
English Course....................................................... 33
Scientific Course.................................................... 38
Special Courses:
Civil Engineering Course............................................. 43
Mechanical Engineering Course........................................ 82
Course in Applied Electricity........................................ 84
Biological Science Course............................................ 51
Commercial Course..................................................   56
Modern Languages—(German)............................................ 59
Modern Languages—(French)............................................ 60
Miscellaneous.............................................................. 61
Department of Physical and Natural Sciences, Languages, Teh graphy and
Type-writing, Phonography and Elocution, Lecture and Concert Course,
Drawing and Painting, Music, Reading Rooms and Lemonnier Library.
Minim Department:
Prospectus—Discipline—General Remarks................................ 67
Sorin Hall................................................................. 71
Law Department............................................................. 73
Institute of Technology.................................................... 82
Catalogue of Students...................................................... 85
Associated Alumni.......................................................... 99
College Societies:
Religious............................................................   100
Literary.............................................................. 104
Law................................................................. 107
Musical............................................................... 109
Athletic and Military................................................. Ill
Conferring of Degrees....................................................... 115
Commercial Diplomas—Special Prize Medals—Class Prize Medals—Awarding
of Honors — Deportment Prize Medals — Deportment Certificates — Class
Premiums.
Preliminary Exercises of the Fifty-first Annual Commencement.
Contest in Elocution................................................ 126
Lawn Concerts, University Cornet Band............................... 127
Annual Examinations................................................. 129
Military Review..................................................... 130
Exercises Commemorating the Golden Jubilee.......................... 131
Programme—Exercises in Washington Hall.............................. 131
The	Notre Dame Scholastic—Prospectus................................ 134
St. Mary's Academy........................................................ 135
Illustrated—Frontispiece.
