Annual Catalogue
or- THE
University o-
Notre Dame.
r
3
Notre Dame, Indiana.
1395-1396.
"Miitn
mil
mi
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME IND.
^i^ig-^eeond
^nncial ©atalogae
or the;
Glnivop^itg of ^***
«« ^otpo ©onpe,
J^otne ©ame, Indiana.
1895-1896.
*
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS:
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
1896.

Board of Trustees.
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. DANIEL J. SPILLARD, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Chanceeeor.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Bro. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
4	University or Notre Dame.
Officers of the University.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President.
REV. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
Vice-President and Director oe Studies.
REV. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
BRO. PAUE, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
BRO. CEEESTINE, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
Brownson Hall.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S.	C.	Bro.	HILARION, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.	Bro.	GREGORY, C. S. C.
Carroll Hall.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S.	C.	Bro.	LAWRENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.	Bro.	ALPHONSUS, C. S. *Ck
St. Edward’s Hall.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.	Bro. JEROME, C. S. C.
Bro. ELI, C. S. C.
University oe Notre Dame.	5
The Faculty.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Evidences oe Religion.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
Physical Sciences and Curator oe the Museum.
Rev. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH. C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. DENIS J. HAGERTY, C. S. C.,
Ecclesiastical History.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature, French.
Rev. JOSEPH KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences and German.
Rev. EDWARD P. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
6
University oe Notre Dame.

Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Rhetoric.
Rev. JAMBS A. BURNS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
JAMES R EDWARDS, A. M., EL. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A M., EL. B.,
Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S ,
History, and Lecturer on Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
AUSTIN O’MALLEY, A. M., M. D., PH. D., EL. D.,
English Literature.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., *E. E.,
Electrical Engineering and Experimental Physics
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
(Resident Physician.) Anatomy and Physiology.
GEORGE E. CLARKE, A. M., LL- M.,
Elocution and Phonography.
LAURENCE McGRISKIN, A. M.,
Greek and Mathematics.
University of Notre Dame.
Assistant Professors and Instructors,
REV. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Commercial Law.
Rev. BERNARD ILL, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping.
rev. Thomas h. corbett, c. s. c.s
English.
Bro. BONIFACE, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy and Typewriting.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
t
CHARLES PERCY MacHUGH,
Latin and Erench.
University^of Notre Dame.
£
DANIEE VINCENT CASEY, Eitt. B.,
English Composition.
ERANK POWERS, B. S.,
t Assistant and Demonstrator in Biology.
DANIEE P. MURPHY, A. B.,
Eatin.
JOHN O’H. EOVE,
English.
JAMES H. KIVEAN,
Instructor in Machine Shop.
MICHAEE J. H. NEY,
Telegraphy.
WIEEIAM MCDONOUGH,
Typewriting. .
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.
Bro. JEROME, C. S. C. 5
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
University or Notre Dame.
9
Department of Fine Arts.
MUSIG
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director or Musical Department.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
NEWTON A. PRESTON, Mus. Bach.,
Vocal Music, Director oe Band and Orchestras.
DRAWING.
ERANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Linear, Architectural and Mechanical Drawing.
ATHLBTJGS.
PAUL BEYER, Gymnastics.
5
UniversityUe Notre Dame.
DANIEL VINCENT CASEY, Litt. B.,
English Composition.
TRANK POWERS, B. S.,
Assistant and Demonstrator in Biology.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, A. B.,
Latin.
JOHN O’H. LOVE,
English.
JAMES H. KIVLAN,
Instructor in Machine Shop.
MICHAEL J. H. NEY,
Telegraphy.
WILLIAM McDONOUGH,
Typewriting. ,
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C. Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. JEROME, C. S. C.	Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.	Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.	Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
University ok Notre Dame.
9
Department of Fine Art®.
MUS1G.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director oe Musical Department.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
NEWTON A. PRESTON, Mus. Bach.,
Vocal Music, Director oe Band and Orchestras.
DRAWING.
ERANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Linear, Architectural and Mechanical Drawing.
ATHLETICS.
PAUL BEYER, Gymnastics.
IO
University of Notre Dame.
«>
Notre Dame University.
• HISTORICAL. •
HE University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by Very Reverend Edward Sorin,
the late Superior General of the Congrega-
tion of the Holy Cross; in 1844 it was char-
tered by the General Assembly of the State
of Indiana. It grew rapidly from a small
frontier school to a fairly equipped college,
and at length assumed the proportions of a
University. On April 23, 1879, five of the
college buildings were destroyed by fire.
The loss included the Library, Museums, and scientific appar-
atus. The progress of the University, however, was arrested but
for a short time. In September, 1879, the college had been par-
tially rebuilt, and the beginning of the present extended group of
buildings had been made. The new order of things fulfilled a
hope rather than a promise of the old, and the Notre Dame of
to-day, with its equipment, its standard of studies, and its
increasing influence, more than realizes the most sanguine expec-
tations even of those who had the firmest belief in the possibili-
ties of higher education in the West. A brief review seems not
inappropriate.
Material Equipment of the University.
Main Building.
This is five stories high; its dimensions are 320 x 155 feet. The
distance from the ground to the electric light just above the statue
surmounting the dome is two hundred and seven feet. This
building contains museums, libraries, art galleries, class rooms,
study halls, dormitories, lavatories, trunk rooms, armories, etc.
The refectories are richly ornamented with mural paintings, repre-
University of Notre Dame.
ii
senting many of the most celebrated ecclesiastical and secular build-
dings in the world, and beautifully illustrating the progress of
architecture. The lavatories are supplied with hot and cold water,
and have all the customary accomodations. The armories contain
about 150 stands of arms, with bayonets, accoutrements, etc. These
arms were procured from the State, for the service of members of
the military organizations. The reception parlors, and offices of
the President, Secretaries, and Prefect of Discipline are on the
main floor, as are also the study halls, several of the class-rooms,,
the telegraph office, and the students’ office. This floor is of tile
and the corridor is lined with a series of superb mural paintings,
(the work of the distinguished Roman artist, Signor Luigi Gre-
gori), which illustrate the leading events in the life of Columbus,
or, more particularly, such of them as history associates with the
discovery of America. Portraits of distinguished ecclesiastics,
including almost all the Catholic Bishops in the United States,
those living as well as those who have gone to their reward, line
the walls of the corridors on the floor above, which is appropri-
ately called the “Bishops’ Gallery.” The society rooms are on
the same floor, as are also some of the class-rooms; they are
tastefully ornamented with paintings, mural decorations, and
busts of noted personages. Two large dormitories are likewise
on this floor. The Lemonnier Library and Memorial Hall are on
the third floor. Two large dormitories, that correspond in size
and appearance to those below, occupy the rest of the floor.
The music rooms of the vocal classes and the Department of
Drawing take up the greater part of the fourth floor. The
Lemonnier Library contains 50,000 volumes, besides miscella-
neous objects of interest gathered from all parts of the United
States and many other countries. Three wide oaken stair-cases,
afford communication between the different floors, from the first
story to the top of the building; and these, supplemented by exits,
to the roofs of verandas and porticos, with ample means of
descending safely to the ground, remove all danger of personal
injury in case of fire. But the fullest precautions have been
taken to guard against that peril. With a watchman constantly
on duty, water on each floor and hose at hand, there is absolutely
no danger of fire. The halls throughout the building are wide,
12
University of Notre Dame.
high, and spacious. The many angles which distinguish the
building, were planned and constructed in accordance with the
prevailing style of architecture at Notre Dame, which is known
as modern Gothic. These angles serve to give strength and
solidity to the entire building, rendering it secure’ against the
fury of the wind and storm, not to mention the incidental advan-
tages of good light and perfect ventilation which they afford.
Just east of the Main Building is
Music Hall.
This is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and over 100 in
height. The first floor is divided into recreation and reading
rooms, the north end being for the students of Carroll Hall and
the south for the students of Brownson Hall. These rooms are
supplied with newspapers, periodicals, games of all kinds, billiard-
tables, etc. The dressing rooms of the Bicycle Club and of the
Athletic Association are also on this floor. The second and third
floors at the south end are divided into music rooms, aud instru-
mental music is there taught. The Exhibition Hall occupies the
remainder of the building. In it are given the more formal lec-
tures, as well as concerts and dramatic entertainments. Tully
furnished with the scenes, accessories and decorations appropriate
to such uses and capable of accommodating 1,200 persons, it
ranks among the largest and most attractive college halls in the
country.
Science Hall.	,
This imposing edifice is situated a few steps south of. Music
Hall. The dimensions are 104 x 131 feet, and the height is three
, stories, or 75 feet. It is divided into two departments, and sup-
plied with all the agencies requisite to facilitate the acquisition of
a complete knowledge of the sciences. The laboratories, lecture-
rooms, museums, biological department, engine-rooms, etc., are
admirably arranged for convenience of studies. The Hall is
fully equipped with all necessary chemicals, preparations, speci-
mens, charts, tools, instruments and the innumerable accessories
of a great school of science. The Brownson Hall campus or
play-ground, a level track containing about ten acres, lies south-
4SEO of it. South of it is the
University of Notre Dame.	13
Institute of Technology,
a large and commodius building devoted to the use of the students
of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering. It is fully equip -
ped with all the appliances for wood and metal working, and is
supplied with the most approved forms of forges and cupolas for
blacksmithing and foundry work. The rooms for mechanical
drawing, and the laboratories for special experimental work in
engineering, were specially designed for the purpose for which
they are used, and are complete in all their appointments.
Directly south is the
Astronomical Observatory,
which is conveniently situated for astronomical observations and
the wTork of class instruction. The observatory consists of a
main part, with a revolving dome, an east wing, or transit
room, in which is mounted the transit instrument, and a north
wing, or computing room, which contains the smaller instruments
and the works of reference for the use of observers. East of
Music Hall, for the accomodation of the students desiring to take
physical exercise when the weather is unfavorable for out-door
sports, stands the
Students’ Play Hall,
which measures 160 feet in length and 45 in wudth, and is two
stories in height. The north half is for the use of the students of
Carroll Hall, wfliose campus surrounds it, while the south half is
set apart for the students of Brownson Hall. A thoroughly equip-
ped gymnasium has recently been fitted up on the second floor of
the Institute of Technology. Just north of the Play Hall and
Music Hall is St. Edward’s Park, and fronting this, facing
south, is
*	St. Edward’s Hall,
a building four stories high, 155 feet in length by 150 in width.
This is for the exclusive use of pupils under thirteen years of age.
It is entirely separate from the University, though under the same
general management. The building is new, and lacks none of the
appointments suggested by experience as useful or desirable. It
is divided into study-halls, class-rooms, dormitories, etc. The
recreation hall is just east of it, while farther east and north lies

University of Notre Dame.
the play-ground. The pupils are under the immediate direction
of competent and experienced teachers—Sisters of the Congrega-
tion of the Holy Cross.
•	The Infirmary
adjoins St. Bdward’s Hall on the west. In dimensions it is 200 x
45 feet, and three stories high. The General Office occupies a
portion of this first floor. The rooms on the floor above are kept
in readiness for the reception of students who at any time are pre-
vented through illness from attending classes and discharging
their customary duties. The regular physician of the University,
and the Sisters in charge minister to the sick in all cases.
The Ghurch
stands a little west and south of the main building. It is gener-
ally regarded as one of the most beautifully decorat-d churches in
the country. In size it is 275x120 feet, and the distance from
the ground to the apex of the roof is about 125 feet. It is richly
ornamented with paintings and statuary, and hours may profitably
be given to the examination and study of these and the objects of
interest and beauty in which it abounds. In its tower is the larg-
est bell in the United States. Besides there are 32 smaller bells
in the tower. These bells vary in size and constitute the noted
“Chimes of Notre Dame.’’ South and west of the church stands
Sorin Hall.
The style of the building is what is currently called mixed Gothic
and Roman. The height from ground to apex is about 70 feet.
It has a measurement of 144 feet along its front, or from north to
south, while its depth, or from east to west, it will measure when
when completed, 112 feet. The basement, about two-thirds of
which is above the ground level, has a height of 9 feet from floor
to ceiling. Above the basement the structure rises to the height
of three stories. The distance from the first floor to the ceiling is
15 feet; from the second floor to the ceiling, 13 feet, and from the
third floor to the ceiling, about 12 feet. Two wide and massive
staircases afford ample means of passing readily from floor to floor.
The basement is subdivided into lavatories, bath-rooms, boiler and
engine rooms, etc. The building is heated thoroughly by an
University of Notbe Dame.
15
automatic self-feeding apparatus placed in the basement. On the
first floor are two or more of the principal offices, the chapel, the
law lecture court, moot-court room, law library, society rooms, etc.
A large room in the north part of the building serves as a chapel,
while the law rooms are south of the entrance, with an east and
south exposure. The second and third floors are almost exclu-
sively appropriated for students’ rooms. The building is com--
modious, thoroughly ventilated, and the rooms and corridors are
well lighted and comfortably heated at all times.
A regular established United States post-office is situated on
the University grounds, a short distance from the main building.
It is particularly intended for the accommodation of the Univer-
sity and St. Mary’s Academy, and all mail matter intended for
the students of either institution should be addressed to Notru
Dame, Indiana. There are too many buildings at Notre Dame
to receive detailed notice; indeed, so numerous are they, that if
brought together, they would cover at least eight or ten acres of
ground.
Surroundings.
The University is situated about a mile and a half north of the
flourishing city of South Bend, Ind., and about eighty miles east
of Chicago. It is surrounded by a fertile and prosperous farming
country. And yet, by reason of its proximity to South Bend, it
combines the conveniences and accommodations of the city with
the salutary isolation, wholesome climate and natural beauties of
the country. A broad avenue runs directly south from the Uni-
versity for a mile or more, and on both sides it is lined with shade
trees. North and west of the University are two beautiful lakes—
St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s. The area of the former is but a
little less than 23 acres. The ground slopes picturesquely down
to the lakes, and beautiful walks along the shores almost surround
them. On the higher ground, above the walks and overlooking
the lakes, are magnificent groves of oak, hickory, sycamore and
other varieties of hard timber. St. Joseph’s River, swift of cur-
rent and tortuous of channel, sweeps grandly past the University
grounds on the west. The scenery along its steep and timber-
lined banks is bold, wild and romantic.
16	University of Notre Dame.
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position almost central with reference
to the most important cities of the Mississippi Valley. The rail-
roads running directly to South Bend are the Lake Shore & Mich-
igan Southern, the Grand Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illi-
nois & Iowa, and the Michigan Central. The road last named is
connected with South Bend by a lateral line which runs south
from Niles, Mich., and passes through the University grounds.
Omnibuses and other conveyances, by which visitors can expedi-
tiously reach Notre Dame, may be found on the arrival of trains
at the stations of the roads indicated.
Discipline.
The aim of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame is
to secure for each student that quiet and to promote that mental
concentration which are absolutely necessary to a thorough col-
lege course. Although the rules made and enforced with this
intention are more stringent than is usual in American colleges,
there is nothing required by them to which any earnest stu-
dent can reasonably object. Other than earnest students are
out of place in the University. It is supposed that every student,
by the mere act of matriculating, binds himself to gentlemanly
conduct wThile at Notre Dame. If it be discovered that he is not
worthy of a place on the list of students, the authorities reserve
to themselves the right of dropping his name from the list.
The manner of life at Notre Dame is that of a large and ‘well
regulated family. This necessarily involves close contact on the
part of students with one another; consequently the authorities
are obliged, in the interest of each worthy student, to enforce the
rules governing conduct wfith uncompromising firmness. And
yet, the causes of expulsion are not more numerous than in any
well-organized club of gentlemen. There can, for instance, be no
mitigation of the extremes! penalty for flagrant disobedience of
authority, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the habitual
use of profane or obscene language, un authorized absence from the
college limits, etc. In the case of suspension or expulsion for such
offenses, no fees will be returned.
The students in the various college ha'lls are under the same
rules of discipline. They retire not later than ten, and the signa
University of Notre Dame.	17
for rising is never given later than 6:30. Undue attention to
athlectics at the expense of studies is not permitted; while at the-
same time, students are advised, expected and strongly encour-
aged to take part in healthy out-door sports. A limited number
of contests is permitted with athletic organizations from the out-
side. The athletic societies are not permitted to take part in
games outside the college premises, and no one will be allowed to
take part in a game who is not a regularly matriculated student.
A competent instructor in gymnastics is retained by the Univer-
sity. Special attention is given to the improvement of the physi-
cal condition of the students; experience shows that the course of
study and and the discipline at Notre Dame has not failed to pro-
duce sane-minded and physically healthy men. The military drill
is optional, but it is strongly recommended to promote manly
deportment and erect carriage.
While persons of all religions denominations participate in the
privileges of the University, it is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine services at
stated times.
Other regulations, which time has sanctioned as salutary, may
be summarized as follows:
1. Students are required to report at the college immediately
after their arrival at the station. This rule is binding not only at
the beginning of the school year, but at all other times when leave
of absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in the neighbor-
ing city is looked upon as a serious violation of rule. 2. Leave
of absence can not be granted to students during the term time except
in cases of urgent necessity. There is no vacation at Easter. 3. No
student shall leave the University grounds without permission of
the President or Vice-President, or the person delegated to repre-
sent them. 4. No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without permission of the Director of Studies. 5. The
use of tobacco is strictly forbidden, except to such students of
Brownson or Sorin Hall as have received from their parents
written permission to use it. 6. The use of intoxicating liquors
is absolutely prohibited under all circumstances. 7. To guard
against all clandestine and improper correspondence, the President
18
University or Notre Dame.
reserves the right to supervise letters to and from, students. 8.
Students are not permitted to receive boxes containing other eat-
ables than fruit. All boxes are subject to inspection before they
are delivered to the student.
General Remarks.
A University course in education implies that the student has
had the benefit of elevating associations, as well as of careful
instruction. The desire of the authorities is to surround the stu-
dents with professors and companions of the highest character,
and their aim is to include no pupil on the roll of the University
who would not be received into the home of the most scrupulous
Christian parent. The University is a town in itself, and the
student runs no risk of suffering from dissipations of outside
society. The invironment, natural, artistic, human, is of the most
elevating character. He must work, for there are no distractions
permitted while he is at work; the system of discipline is the
result of deep consideration of the best means of developing con-
scientiousness, firmness of purpose, habits of patience and self-
reliance, in a word of giving the student the best tools for acquir-
ing the highest success in life.
Members of the Junior and Senior classes of any of the Colle-
giate Courses have rooms in Sorin Hall; other students are
assigned according to age to Brownson, Carroll or St. Edward’s
Hall. Young men of 17 and upward are assigned to Brownson
Hall. Their dormitories, study-hall, refectory, lavatory, etc.,
are in the east half of the main University building. The students
of Carroll Hall, whose ages range from 13 to 17, occupy the west
portion of it. The pupils of St. Edward’s Hall have a building
exclusively for themselves. The different Halls to which students
are thus assigned are entirely separate from one another. Their
inmates are seldom brought together except in certain collegiate
classes. Tbe pupils of St. Edward’s Hall have no direct inter-
course with the students of the other departments.
There are ample accomodations for six hundred resident stu-
dents at the University. The ventilation is exceptionally good.
University of Notre Dame.
19
Scrupulous cleanliness prevails everywhere. The fare is abundant
in quantity, varied in quality, and always wholesome. The class-
rooms are large and well lighted, as are also the rooms used by
the literary, debating, dramatic and other societies.
The societies devoted more particularly to the cultivation of
music and the drama have always been very popular, and many
of their members have reached a higher degree of proficiency than
mere amateurs are commonly expected to attain. This is largely
due to the fact that they are aided and stimulated by the sedulous
co-operation and encouragement of professors well qualified to
give instruction in music and the drama. Then, too, there are
societies especially intended to promote the interests- of religion
and lead to a thorough knowledge of Christian doctrine. By
means of essays and debates, great readiness in speaking, as well
as felicity in the expression of thought, is attained by many mem-
bers of these societies.
The students of the different departments are under the super-
vision of their respective prefects and professors; and while they
enjoy all the freedom compatible with the requirements of good
order, they are firmly held to an observance of the courtesies
expected of gentlemen in their intercourse with one another.
But there is but very little occasion for the exercise of rigor in
this respect, as the students come almost invariably from homes in
which they have been brought up under the salutary influence of
careful and proper training. They have been taught to observe
the manners that distinguish upright and honorable young men;
and it is an important aim of the discipline in force at Notre Dame
to make them in all respects thorough, accomplished and carefully
educated gentlemen—gentlemen whose lives wall be useful and
honorable, and tend to reflect credit upon their parents, them-
selves and the University.
20
University or Notre Dame
Expenses.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).... $ 1 O OO
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern
Languages included), Lodging, Washing
and Mending of Linens, per Session of
Nearly Ten Months.......................... 300	00
Payable in Advance, as follows:
On entrance in September... .$200 00 j January 15th.........$100	00
The charge of $300 covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at
$100 per scholastic year. No portion of this latter sum will be
returned when students are dismissed before the close of the year
or leave for any other cause than ill health.
Students who enter after September 20th are charged pro rata
from the date of their entrance until July 1, 1897.
Special Studies.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves to
the regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the
following may be taken at the rate mentioned per scholastic year.

The charges will be pro rata
Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment ...................$45
Lessons on 'Violin, Guitar,
Flute, Cornet, Clarionet and
Mandolin............... 25
Use of each Instrument....	5
Vocal Culture............ 30
Elocution—Special Course.. 10
Use of Library............ 2
“Scholastic”.............. 1
Artistic Drawing......... 20
Telegraphy............... 20
Typewriting — Pull Course
(Twenty-one Lessons).... 5
Phonography.............. 20
Practical Mechanics....... 30
Elementary Chemistry,—lec-
ture course...............2
for any portion of the year.
Elementary Chemistry, —lab-
oratory course...........$	5 00
00 Chemical Analysis.............. 10	00
Elementary Physics—lecture
course.................... 2	50
00 Elementary Physics—labora-
00	rory course............... 5	00
00	Advanced Physics........... 10	00
00	Use of Apparatus in Miner-
00	alogical Laboratory...... 5	00
50	Use of Apparatus in Botanical
00	Laboratory................ 5	00
00	LTse of Apparatus in Biolog-
ical Laboratory.................. 20	00
00	Applied Electricity........ 40	00
00	Special Lecture and Concert
00	Course................... 2	00
Gymnastics—Full Course
50	(Twenty Lessons)......... 5 00
University of Notre Dame.
21
Graduation Tee.
(Payable before Commencement).
Classical Course, $10; Course in Science, $10; Special Course
in English, $10; Law Course, $10; Civil Engineering Course,
$10; Commercial Course, $5.
Remarks.
Remittances should be made by draft, P. O. Money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable; and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Term bills and all other accounts are subject to sight draft if
not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Brownson and Sorin Halls are closed during the months of July
and August. Students of Carroll Hall who spend the Summer
Vacation at the University are charged, extra, $50.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the Univer-
sity, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesiastical
state can be received at special rates. Fuller information can be
obtained by addressing the President.
The year ’96=’97 will open on Tuesday, September 8th.
22
University of Notre Dame.
Programme of Studies
The year is divided into two terms. The first term begins in
September and continues until Christmas. The Second term
begins in January and ends during the last week cf June. An
examination is held at the close of each term.
Preparatory Department.
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the Classical or
English Courses, or to the Courses in Science and Engineering. Students
who have completed the course receive a diploma admitting them to mem-
bership in the Freshman Class.
First Year Preparatory.
First Year.
I.—LATIN.
r. Grammar—As far as regular conjugations.—Ewing.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-nine Lessons—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
3.	Historia Sacra.
II.—ENGLISH.
r. Grammar—To Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
a. Letter Writing.
3. Penmanship.
III	.—HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY.
1.	Geography—General Geography of the World—Special Geography of
the United States, including Outline of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
2.	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.—Sadlier.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
r. Arithmetic—To Fractions (exclusive). Normal Union Arithmetic.—•
Brooks.
University or Notre Dame.
23
Second Term.
I.—DATIN.
1.	Grammar—First Session’s work reviewed — Etymology completed —
General Rules of Syntax.—Ewing.
2.	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3.	Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
4.	Historia Sacra.
II.—ENGLISH.
1. Grammar—Etymology completed—General Rules of Syntax.—Haivey.
a. Letter Writing.
3. Penmanship.
III	.—HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY.
1.	U. S. History—Phom Revolutionary War to the present time.—Sadlier.
2.	Geography—Special Geograph}’ of Europe, Asia and Africa, including
Outline of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
IV	. —MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers (exclu-
sive ). Normal Union Arithmetic. —Brooks.
Second Year Preparatory.
11 First Term.
I.—LATIN.
I. Grammar—Etymology Reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.—Harkness.
2. Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, Second Part, Introduction to Latin
Composition. —Harkness.
II.—ENGLISH.
r. Grammar—Rules of Syntax.—Harvey,
a. Letter Writing.
3. Penmanship.
Ill	. —MATHEM ATI CS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Normal Union
Arithmetic.—Brooks.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
Students preparing for the Classical Course wTill in this term 'begin the
study of Greek. Those preparing for the Course in English, will begin the
study of German; and those preparing for the Courses in Science will begin
24
University or Notre Dame.
The study of either French or German. The scheme of work in French and
German will be found under the Course of Modern Languages. That in
Greek is as follows:
i.	Grammar—From the beginning to the Verb.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Beginner’s Greek Book.— White.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
i.	Grammar—Syntax.—Harkness.
2.	Exercises—Second Part Completed—Introduction to Latin Composition,
—Harkness.
3.	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
II.—ENGLISH.
1. Grammar—Syntax Completed—Analysis and General Review.—Harvey.
2. Letter Writing.
3. Penmanship.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Percentage to Involution—Normal Union Arithme-
tic.—Brooks.
2.	Algebra (begun)—To Fractional Equations—School Algebra—Went-
worth.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
Students preparing for the Classical Course will continue Greek as follows:
1.	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Beginner’s Greek Book.—White.
3.	Jacob’s Greek Reader.—Casserly. Selections by the Teacher.
4.	Gospel of St. John—Selections by the Teacher.
The students preparing for English will continue German; those prepar-
ing for Science will continue French or German.
Third Year Preparatory.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
I.	Cornelius Nepos.—Five Lives.
2.	Exercises—Part Third—Introduction to Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3.	Grammar—Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
a
University of Notre Dame.	25
II.—ENGLISH.
1.	Composition.—Grammar reviewed—Sentence Structure.
2.	Lectures on Hill’s Elements of Rhetoric.
3.	Letter Writing—Weekly Themes.
4.	Required Readings.
HI.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Algebra—Through Fractional Eqnations to Quadratics (exclusive)—
School Algebra.— Wentworth.
2.	Geometry—First three books.— Wentworth.
*
IV.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
For students preparing for Classical Course, Greek, as follows:
1.	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-five Exercises, First Greek Book. —Spencer's Arnold.
2). Anabasis—First Book.
For students in English, German; and those in Science, French or
German.
V.—HISTORY.
Students preparing for Science or Engineering will take—
1. Modern History—From the Invasion of the Barbarians to the end of the
Crusades. —Fredet.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Ceesar—First and Second Books.
2.	Exercises—Third Part—Introduction to Latin Composition Completed.—
Harkness.
3.	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
II.—ENGLISH.
1.	Composition—Sentence Structure.
2.	Hill’s Elements of Rhetoric.
3.	Letter Writing—Daily Themes.
4.	Required Readings.
III	. —MATHEM ATICS.
1.	Algebra—Radicals Reviewed—Quadratics to Logarithms (exclusive),
College Algebra.— Wentworth.
2.	Geometry—Book IV to Conic Sections.— Wentworth.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
For students preparing for Classical Course, Greek, as follows:
1.	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.—Goodwin.
6
University of Notre Dame.
2.	Exercises—From the 25th to the 51st Exercise—First Greek Book.—
Spencer's Arnold.
3.	Anabasis—Second and third Books.	*
For students in English, German; for those in Science, French or Ger-
man.
V.—HISTORY.
Students preparing for Science or Engineering, will take—
1. Modern History—From the end of Crusades to the present day.—Fredet.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a strict exami-
nation in all the studies of the three Preparatory years that may be required
for their Course, unless their proficiency is already known to the Faculty.
(p 11 iDeparfment.
Classical e°urS?-
^ours? in Cn^lish.
bourses in $cienfe.
28
University of Notre Dame.
Classical Course.
Before entering the Freshman Year, a thorough written examination is
required bearing upon all the branches of the Preparatory Course which are
as follows:
Latin—Translation of Caesar into the vernacular and of short English
sentences into Latin.—Grammar Complete.
Greek—Translation of simple phrases into Greek and translation of
Anabasis with parsing.—Grammar Syntax.
English—Composition, letter writing and simple narrative.
History—American and Ancient History.
Mathematics—Arithmetic and Algebra completed.
Freshman Year.
01 co
First Year.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Sallust—Catiline or Jugurtha.
2.	Ovid—Metamorphoses.
3.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
II	.—GREFK.
1.	Grammar—Syntax.—Goodzvin,
2.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
3.	Xenophon—Memorabilia—First two books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—First Part.
Oral Exercises on Prose Selections.
Essay-writing on Familiar Topics.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1. Modern History—To the Crusades.—Fredet.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Geometry—First Three Books.— Wentworth.
University or Notre Dame.
29
Second Term.
L—LATIN.
1.	Virgil—Selections from Bucolics and Georgies.
2.	Cicero—Orations against Catiline.
3.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
II	.—GRBBK.
1.	Grammar—Completed and reviewed.
2.	Xenophon - Cyropaedia—First Book.
3.	St. John Chrysostom—Butropius.
4.	Bxercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
III	.—BNGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—Completed and reviewed.
2.	Oral Bxercises on Selections in Poetry.
3.	Bssay-writing on Familiar Topics.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1.	Modern History Completed.—Fredet.
V	.—MATHBMATICS.
1 ‘ Geometry—Fourth Book to Conic Sections.— Wenizcoi th.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
I.	V irgil—zBneid.
2.	Cicero—Orations.
3.	Bxercises in Prose Composition.
4.	Prosody—First Part.—Casserly.
II	.—GRBBK.
1.	Homer—Iliad—First and Sixth Books.
2.	St. Gregory—Machabees.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
III	.—BNGLISH.
1.	Exercises on the Rules of Rhetoric.
2.	Lectures 011 Bnglish Literature.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIBNCBS.
1. Blementary Botany.
30
University of Notre Dame.
V.—HISTORY.
I.	Greek and Roman History.
2.	Mythology.
Second Term.
I.— LATIN.
I.	Horace—Odes and Epodes.
2.	Cicero—De Senectute.
3.	Practical Exercises in Prose and Verse.
4.	Prosody—Second Part.—Casserly.
II	.—GREEK.
1.	Homer—Iliad—Sixth Book and Cursory Reading of entire work.
2.	Thucydides—First Book.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on English Literature.	.
2.	Shakespere—Study of the Principal Plays.
3.	Essays.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1. Elementary Botany.
V.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History.
N. B.—Every Student must pass a thorough examination before being
admitted into the Junior Year.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Livy—First Book.
2.	Horace—Ars Poetica and Satires.
3.	Composition—Original Themes.
4.	Elements of Roman Literature.
II.—GREEK.
1.	Demosthenes—De Corona.
2.	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
3.	Practical Exercises.
4.	Elements of Greek Literature.
University or Notre Dame.
3T
HI.-ENGLISH.
i.	Principles of Literary Criticism.
2.	Lectures on American Literature.
3.	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
4.	Narrative and Descriptive Composition.
IV.—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Logic and General Metaphysics.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Chemistry.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Tacitus—Agricola and Germania.
2.	Terence—Andria.
3.	Short Compositions in Prose and Verse.
4.	Elements of Roman Literature Completed.
II.—GREEK.
1.	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2.	Cursory Reading of Homer’s Odyssey.
3.	Short Prose Compositions.
4.	Elements of Greek Literature.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Principles of Literary Criticism.
2.	Lectures on American Literature.
3.	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
4.	Expository and Argumentative Composition.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1. Cosmology, Anthropology and Theodicy.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1. Elementary Physics.
Senior Year.
First Term.
1.
2.
3-
4-
I.—LATIN.	.
Qidntihian }With Historical> Philological and Literary Explanations.
Original Compositions.
Latin Literature and Criticism.
32
University ok Notre Dame.
II.—GREEK.
i.	Plato -Apology and Crito.
2.	Euripides -Medea or Iphigenia in Aulis.
3.	Pindar—Selections.
4.	History of Greek Literature.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Lectures on Natural Law and General Ethics.
2.	Debates and Dissertations.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1. Philosophy of History.
V.—ENGLISH.
1. Belles Lettres.
N. B.—Every student is expected to present at least two essays during
the term.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
I.	Cicero- -De Officiis	) With Historical, Philological and Liter-
2.	Lucretius—De Natura Rerum J ary Explanations.
3.	Original Discourses.
4.	Latin Literature and Comparative Criticism.
II.—GREEK.
1.	Bible --Reading at Sight.
2.	Sophocles—Philoctetes or Antigone.
3.	Aristophanes—“Clouds” or “Frogs.”
4.	History of Greek Literature.
HL—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Special Ethics—Sociology' and History of Ancient and Modern Phil-
osophy.
2.	Debates and Dissertations.
IV.—ENGLISH.
I. Belles Lettres.
V.—political SCIENCE.
1. Political Economy—Manual of Political Economy.— Walker.
N. B.—During the term every student is required to write two essays
md two orations, and to practice public speaking.
University or Notre Dame.
33
English Gourse.
It is unnecessary to state the reasons why careful training in
the art of using the English language, both in speaking and
writing, is absolutely necessary. No man ignorant of the liter-
ary masterpieces of his own language, or unable to use it with
correctness, force and grace, is liberally educated. The Faculty
of the University have spared no pains to make the Special Eng-
lish Course as thorough as possible.
The course extends over a period of four years, and those who
have completed the prescribed studies and passed the examina-
tions satisfactorily, receive the degree of Bachelor of Letters.
The degree is conferred only on those who, besides giving
evidence of a proficiency in the Classics and Science, have also
given proof of ability to apply the principles of composition and
shown an acquaintance with the writings of the best authors in
English and American literature.
The appended scheme of the course explains itself; it is only
necessary to emphasize the following points:
(i)	From the beginning of the course to the end, special attention will be
paid to paragraphing, editorial and essay writing. Themes will be
read and criticised in the author’s presence.
(2)	Facilities are afforded for a training in journalism by the publication,
weekly, of the Notre Dame Scholastic, a twenty-four page paper
devoted to the interests of the students, the columns of which are
open to their contributions. Bvery student of the course is expected,
after the expiration of the first year, to contribute to the Scholastic at
least two articles each term.
(3)	Students are required to be familiar with the masterpieces of the lead-
ing Bnglish and American authors.
(4)	A graduation thesis will be required of every student; this must show,
besides grace of style, a satisfactory treatment of the theme selected.
Requirements for Entrance,
The following studies are required of all students entering the
English Course:
Latin.—The work of the preparatory years as required for
entrance into the Classical Course.
34
University ok Notre Dame.
English.—The work of the preparatory years as required for
entrance into the Classical Course.
German.—The rudiments of German grammar. Ability to
translate at sight, easy German prose into English, and easy
English passages into Gerriian.
Algebra.—The entire subject as far as logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra,
or similar text-books.
Geometry.—Plane and Solid as given in Wentworth, Chau-
venet or Newcomb.
Students must further be prepared to pass an examination in
Arithmetic, English Grammar, Orthography, General Geography,
Political and Physical, and the History of the United States,
unless satisfactory evidence is given of their proficiency in these
branches.
Students are required to pass two examinations,—one before
entering the Ereshman Year, another before taking up the Junior
classes.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
i.	Lectures on Hill’s “Principles of Rhetoric.”
2.	Study of Selections in Prose.
3.	Narrative and Descriptive Themes.
4.	Eigures and Qualities of Style.
5.	Required Readings.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.	W __	•	T  ______
,.	.	>See course m Modern Languages.
2.	Erench. J	* 0
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	Modern History—Erom the Invasion of the Barbarians to the end of the
Crusades. —Fredet.
IV	.—SCIENCES.
1. Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene.
University of Notre Dame.
35
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
I.	Readings in Egan’s “Primer of English. Literature.”
2.	Study of metrical composition.
3.	Analysis of selections in poetry.
.4. Daily themes in prose or verse.
5. Required Readings.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III.—HISTORY.
1. Modern History completed.—Fredet.
IV.—ELOCUTION.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
I. English Literature from Beowulf to Chaucer. Studies in the Canterbury
Tales with philological and metrical analysis. Selections from More’s
Utopia, Bacon’s Advancement of Learning, Milton’s Lycidas, L’Alle-
gro and II Penseroso, and parts of Paradise Lost; Hamlet, Macbeth,
King Lear and the Merchant of Venice. Study of dramatists con-
temporary wnth Shakespere; Elizabethan lyrists.
II	.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History.
2.	Mythology.
IV	.—SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Botany.
2.	Elementary Chemistry.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	American Literature—Evangeline, Webster’s - Speeches, and selections
from Brownson’s American Republic.
2.	Lectures on models of style.
3.	Essays and Orations.
36
University of Notre Dame
i.	Latin.
2.	French.
IL—LANGUAGES.
III.—HISTORY.
i.	Greek and Roman History—To the Invasion of the Barbarians.
2.	Mythology.
*	” "	IV.—SCIENCES.
i.	Elementary Physics.
2.	Astronomy.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
i.	Elements of Literary Criticism.
2.	English Literature. Studies in the classical period. Themes Ln the
growth of the Saxon influence in English Literature. Newman and
Tennyson.
3.	Critical study of standard prose authors.
.	II.—LANGUAGES.
i.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
i.	History of England.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
i. Logic and Cosmology.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
I.	Elements of Literary Criticism. Herbert Spencer and Aristotle’s
Poetics.
2.	Lectures on the more notable authors and literary epochs.
3.	Special studies in the art of expression.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	History of England.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1. Psychology and Theodicy.
University of Notre Dame.
37
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
i.	Lectures on comparative literature.
2.	Analysis of style. De Quincy, Newman, Daniel Webster and Ruskin.
3.	Oratorical composition.
4.	Lectures on the literature of the Nineteenth Century.
II	.—LANGUAGES.
i.	Latin.
2.	Drench.
III	.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Political Economy.— Walker.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1.	Moral Philosophy.
Second Term,
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on living authors.
2.	Study of special influences.
3.	Conferences.
II	.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Constitutional and political history of the United States.
IV	.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
i. Moral Philosophy.

University or Notre Dame.
General Science Gourse.
The Course in General Science is calculated to afford, together
with a liberal education, such an acquaintance with the methods
and facts of modern science as will best enable the student to fit
himself, either for further study of a technical or professional kind,
or for the activities of business life. The Natural and Physical
Sciences constitute the primary studies of the Course. Grouped
about these, are those studies in English, Mathematics, and the
Modern Languages, which experience has shown to be necessary,
both for the intelligent pursuit of science, and for the attainment
of the object of the Course.
Candidates for the Freshman Class must be prepared to stand
an examination in Arithmetic, English Grammar, Orthography,
U. S. History and Geography, unless satisfactory assurances of
their proficiency in these branches are given. In addition, they
must pass an examination in the following:
Latin and English—Same as in entrance requirements for
Freshman Class, Classical Course.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, as given in works like those of
Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb.
Algebra—The whole subject, as far as Logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra, or
similar text-books.
Modern History—The outlines of Modern History, from the
fall of the Roman Empire to the present time.
French or German—The rudiments of French or German
Grammar. Ability to translate at sight easy French or German
prose into English, and easy English passages into French or
German. A half course in one of these languages is requisite for
entrance. A full four years’ course, to be begun in the Freshman
Year, if not before, is prescribed in the other.
Equivalents will be accepted. A student deficient in one of
these entrance requirements may be admitted to the Course, but
on condition of making up the deficiency during the Freshman
Year.
University or Notre Dame.
39
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every student
during the Sophomore Year and two during the Junior Year.
The scientific work of the Senior Year is elective. Advanced
courses may be elected in any one of the following Branches of
science: Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, Engineering,
Mechanics.
Every candidate for a degree, in the Course of General Science,
is required to submit, at least six weeks before the final exami-
nations, a written thesis upon some subject connected with the
elective work of the Senior Year. The subject chosen must have
the approval of the professor in the course elected. The thesis
should not contain less than six thousand words, and must be
satisfactory in matter, style and treatment.
Students who have completed the required courses, passed the
final examinations, and presented a satisfactory thesis, will receive
the degree of Bachelor of Science.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I	.— NATURAL SCIENCE.
i.	Human Anatomy—Physiology and Hygiene.
2.	Microscopy—Microscopical Technology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Elementary Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Work.*
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
i.	Algebra (completed)—Logarithms, Series, and Theory of Equations.
IV	.—ENGLISH.
r. Rhetoric—As in English Course.
V.—LANGUAGES.
r. French or German.—The same as in First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
VI.—DRAWING.
r. Free-Hand Drawing and Lettering.
* Provided for students who do not offer these as entrance requirements.
40
University of Notre Dame.
Second Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
I.	Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.
2.	Demonstration in the Biological Laboratory.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i. Elementary Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work.*
III.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Trigonometry—The Entire Subject.
IV.—ENGLISH.
i. Rhetoric—As in English Course.
V.—LANGUAGES.
i. French or German.
VI.—DRAWING.
i. Mechanical Drawing.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I	.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
I.	Botany—Organography, Histology, and General Classification of Plants.
Demonstration in the Biological Laboratory.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i.	General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Analytic Geometry.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i.	French or German.
V	.-DRAWING.
I.	Mechanical Drawing and Tinting.
Second Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.	.
I.	Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.
2.	Demonstration in Biological Laboratory.
* Provided for students who do not offer these as entrance requirements.
University of Notre Dame.	41
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
r. General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.
III	. —MATHEMATICS.
i.	Analytic Geometry.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
i. French or German.
V.—DRAWING.
i. Mechanical Drawing and Sketching.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I	.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
i.	Mineralogy—Crystallography—Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i.	General Descriptive Physics—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.
2.	Qualitative Chemical Analysis.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
i.	Calculus—The Entire Subject of Differential Calculus.
IV	.—LANGUAGES.
j. French or German.
Second Term.
L—NATURAL SCIENCE.
i.	Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
2.	Blowpipe Analysis and Metallurgy.
3.	Geology—Lectures, Laboratory and Field Work.
•	II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
. 1. General Descriptive Physics—Lectures, Recitations, and Laboratory
Work.	•
•	III.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Calculus—The Entire Subject of Integral Calculus.
IV. —LANGUAGES.
1. French or German.
42
University of Notre Dame.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—ELECTIVE SCIENCE.
I. Advanced Courses in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, Engi-
neering, or Mechanics.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
r. Astronomy—As far as Eclipses.
III	.—LANGUAGES.
i.	French or German.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
i. Logic and General Metaphysics.—Lectures.
Second Term.
I.—ELECTIVE SCIENCE.
i. Advanced Courses in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, Mathematics, Engi-
neering, or Mechanics.
II.—MATHEMATICS.
r. Astronomy— Concluded.
III	.—LANGUAGES.
I.	PTench or German.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
i. Special Metaphysics—Lectures.
University of Notre Dame.
43
School of Givil Engineering
The Course of instruction in Civil Engineering, (carefully pre-
pared and presented in the following programme,) is designed to
give the student, not only a thorough theoretical knowledge of the
various branches of Engineering, but at the same time to illustrate
so fully, by experimental work, the subject theoretically con-
sidered in the class-room, as to enable the graduate to enter at
once intelligently upon the duties of his profession, either in the
office or in some of the responsible positions superintending the
construction and operation of public works.
Instruction is given throughout the Course by means of text-
books, lectures, and practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
field. Practical problems, bearing directly upon the subject-mat-
ter discussed in the class-room, are prepared by the instructors,
and solutions required from the student, thus exemplifying in the
• best manner possible the principles studied and learned, and teach-
ing their application to practical engineering questions. The fol-
lowing is a general outline of the subjects considered and work
done during the four years necessary to complete the Course and
to receive the degree of Civil Engineer.
Surveying.
The course in Plane Surveying is given by means of text-book
and recitations, supplemented by practical work in the field. The
use and adjustments of the instruments are first fully explained.
The students go into the field during the spring months, when
the weather permits, handle and adjust the instruments, and
practice the principal operations comprised in land, topograph-
ical, railroad and city surveying. In the drawing-room, the work
done in the field is platted, and maps carefully prepared. In
the second year is given a course, twenty weeks, five hours each
week, in higher surveying, leveling and geodesy, including a con-
tinuation of the practical applications in the field. All that per-
tains to the measurement of base line^, necessary for extensive
surveys, and goedetic work, including problems relating to the
figure of the earth, are discussed and thoroughly examined.
44
University ob' Notre Dame.
Railroad Engineering.
Instruction in Railroad Engineering comprises a study (in the
class-room) of the various curves, turn-outs and crossings, neces-
sary in railroad location; problems relating to the computation
of earthwork, excavation, and embankment, by the prismoidal and
other formulae, elevation of the outer rail, and all that pertains
to railway construction, equipment and management are also
carefully considered. In the field the students make the usual
preliminary survey preparatory to the most favorable location
for a railroad. A route is selected and a line located on the
ground in a position and of sufficient length to include an appli-
cation of the problems discussed in the class room. The usual
cross section leveling is done; maps, profiles, and plans are pre-
pared; calculations of the necessary excavations and embankments
are made, and estimates of cost of construction worked out by the
student from data obtained in the field.
Sanitary Engineering.
The course in Sanitary Engineering treats of drainage, sewer-
age, construction of sewers, ventilation of dwellings, etc. Instruc-
tion is given both by text book and lectures. The course is
intended to prepare the student to provide intelligently for the
safety of the health of communities, by proper drainage and dis-
posal of sewerage, and to prepare plans for the construction of
sewers and all wTorks pertaining to drainage and water supply.
Analytic Mechanics.
This course covers the principles of statics, work and energy,
moment of inertia, effects of friction, and the mathematical inves-
tigations necessary to determine the action of forces on solids,
liquids and gases.
Mechanics of Engineering.
The course in Mechanics of Engineering and Resistance of
Materials comprises a study of the strength and elasticity of the
materials used in engineering structures. The theory of torsion,
shearing forces, flexure of beams and columns under the action
of perpendicular and oblique forces, simple and continuous grind-
ers, the effects of moving lodes on structures, and the theory of
arches, are carefully examined and discussed. Both analytical
University of Notre Dame.
45
and graphical methods are used, and results compared. The
student is taught by the most approved methods, how to design
and proportion the various parts that enter into engineering
structures. The proportioning of beams, columns, roofs, arches,
foundations, piers, retaining walls, and the like, are studied in
this course.
Bridges and Roofs.
This study embraces an account of the different forms of these
structures in wood, stone and iron, and the methods of analyzing
and determining the strains to which they are subjected and the
proportioning of their parts with a view to economy of material
and expense.
Hydraulics.
In this study will be considered the theoretical laws that apply
to liquids at rest and in motion. The flow of water through pipes,
orifices, channels, over weirs, frictional resistances, determining
velocity of currents, are some of the subjects considered.
Graphical Statics.
This course comprises a full study of the graphical analysis of
the strains in roof and bridge trusses, and arches. The work is
illustrated by the solution of many practical problems. In stere-
otomy, problems relating to stone-cutting are studied and worked
out, wherein the principles of descriptive geometry are applied,
and the work in detail necessary for the construction of stone
structures, such as arches, piers, wing-walls, etc., is fully
explained.
Astronomy.
During the last year the students are given a course in theo-
retical and practical astronomy, including a study of the methods
of determining latitude, longitude, the meridian time, calculation
of eclipses, as also the theory of astronomical instruments, plane-
tary perturbations, etc.
Drawing.
A full course is given in mechanical and topographical draw-
ing, tinting, tracing, lettering and blue-printing sufficient to
enable the student taking the course to make, without further
preparation, drawings, maps and profiles of any proposed work.
46
University of Notre Dame.
Instruments.
The school is fully equipped with all the instruments necessary
for effective work in the different branches of field engineering.
Among these instruments may be mentioned engineering transits,
wye levels, plane-table, rods, tapes, chains, etc. The physical
and chemical laboratories are fully provided with all the instru-
ments and appliances necessary for full and complete courses in
Physics and Chemistry.
Written examinations are held at the close of each term on the
whole subject matter studied during the term, and the results
entered on the records of the Faculty. Should a student fail to
obtain the required average for promotion, he may ask, after a
reasonable preparation, for a second examination, in order that
he may enter upon the work of the next term. If still unsuc-
cessful, he will be required to review the work until his pro-
ficiency entitles him to promotion.
Any student found neglecting his work and not applying him-
self diligently to his studies will be suspended from the course by
the Faculty as soon as the delinquency is ascertained.
The following are the conditions requisite to enter the Fresh-
man Class: The candidate must pass examination in plane and
solid Geometry as given in the works of Chauvenet, Newcomb,
Wentworth, or an equivalent in other authors. Algebra,—the
whole subject as far as logarithms, as given in Wentworth’s Col-
lege Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra, or an equivalent in
the advanced works of other authors.
The requirements in Fnglish and Latin are the same as for the
Freshman Class, Classical Course.
Modern History.—The Outlines of Modern History from the
Downfall of the Roman Bmpire to the present time.
University of Notre Dame.
47
Freshman Year.
First Term.
‘	I.—MATHEMATICS.
i.	Algebra—(Completed)—Logarithms, Series, and Theory of Equations.
2.	Trigonometry—The Entire Subject.
3.	Analytic Geometry.
IL—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—The same as for the First Term, Freshman Year, Classical
Course.
III	.—LANGUAGE.
French—The same as the First Term, First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
1.	Mechanical Drawing.	o
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Surveying—The Entire Subject of Land, Topographical and Under-
ground Surveying. Recitations and Field Work.
2.	Analytic Geometry.
II	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—The same as for the Second Term, Freshman Year, Classical
Course.
III	.—LANGUAGE.
1.	French—The same as the Second Term, First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
1.	Mechanical Drawing, Free-Hand Drawing, and Lettering.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calculus—The Entire Subject of Differential Calculus.
2.	Descriptive Geometry—Orthographic Projections, Spherical Projections,
Shades and Shadows, Perspective and Isometric Projections.
3.	Railroad Engineering—Recitations and Field Work.
48
University of Notre Dame.
II	.— PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
I.	Elementary Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
III	.—LANGUAGE.
i.	French—The same as the First Term, Second Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
i.	Topographical Drawing and Tinting.
2.	Free-Hand Drawing and Lettering.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.	'
r. Calculus—The Entire Subject of Integral Calculus.
2.	Advanced Surveying.
3.	Geodesy.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIBNCB.
$
1.	Elementary Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
III	.—LANGUAGE.
r. French—The same as the Second Term, Second Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—DRAWING.
1.	Topographical Drawing—From notes taken on Survey, Tinting, Free-
Hand Drawing and Lettering.
V	.—ENGINEERING.
1. Theory of Railroad Location.
One essay is required from each student the bdrst Term, one essay and
one oration the Second Term. The essays and oration must have the
approval of the Professor of Rhetoric.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Analytic Mechanics. ,
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1. Descriptive Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
University or Notre Dame.	49
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1.	Botany.
2.	Mineralogy—Crystallography, Physical and Chemical Properties of Min-
erals, Descriptive Mineralogy, Classification.
IV	.—LANGUAGE.
[. French—The same as the First Term, Third Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
-	V.—DRAWING.
1. Mechanical Drawing, Tinting, Tracing and Blue Printing.
VI.—FIELD ENGINEERING.
r. Running tangents; locating simple, compound, and reversed curves;
problems in change of location.
Second Term.
I	. —MATHEMATICS.
1.	Mechanics of Engineering—Elasticity, Strength and Resistance of
Materials; Action of Forces, Perpendicular and Oblique, on Simple
and Continuous Girders.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
r. Descriptive Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
III.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1. Botany.
r. Dynamical Geology.
IV.—LANGUAGE.
r. French—The same as the Second Term, Third Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
V.—DRAWING.
r. Mechanical Drawing, Tinting, Tracing and Blue Printing.
VI.—ENGINEERING.
i. Railroad Engineering, Leveling, Cross Sectioning, Contouring and
Topography.
Four essays, two each term, on some engineering topic assigned by the
Professor of Civil Engineering, are required from each student during the
Junior Year. Essays are subject to the approval of the Professors of Rhet-
oric and Civil Engineering. The time at which the essays are to be presented
is fixed by the Director of Studies.
50	University of Notre Dame.
First Term.
I	. —MATHEMATICS.
I.	Mechanics of Engineering—Hydraulics. Plow of water through pipes,
orifices, over weirs, velocity in channels; Theory and Design of Masonry
Dams. Pneumatics.
2.	Civil Engineering—Theory of Structures.
3.	Stereotomy and Theory of the Arch.
4.	Astronomy—As far as Eclipses.
II	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic.
III.—DRAWING.
1. Working Drawings of Bridges, Arches and other Structures.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Civil Engineering—Theory of Structures.
2.	Graphical Analysis.
3.	Theory of thp Construction of Bridges and Roofs.
4.	Sanitary Engineering and Public Hygiene.
5.	Astronomy—Concluded.
II.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic.
III.—DRAWING.
1. Working Drawings of Engineering Structures.
N. B.—The shop work in the first two years of this course will be the
same as in the corresponding years of the Electrical Engineering.
THESIS WORK.
A Thesis (not less than ten thousand words) is required in the Senior
Year as a condition of graduation. The subject of the Thesis must be one
requiring original study and investigation, and must be submitted to the
Professor of Civil Engineering for approval at the opening term of the Senior
Year. It must be read and defended by the student before the Faculty of
Engineering and at a time fixed by the Director of Studies. Should the
Thesis not receive the endorsement of the Faculty, the degree will be with-
held until the presentation of a satisfactory Thesis.
University or Notre Dame.
5i
Gourse in Electrical Engineering
This course is designed to prepare young men for work in the
various practical applications of electricity. Physics, especially
the part relating to theoretical and applied electricity, Mechanical
Engineering and Mathematics, are the principal subjects studied.
Students completing this course are entitled to the degree 01
Mechanical Engineer, with a statement in the diploma that he has
paid special attention to electrical work.
The Electrical Engineering Laboratory is well equipped with
accurate measuring instruments, such as the Weston volt and
•am-meters, Siemen’s dynamometer wattmeters, tangent galvano-
meters, wheatstone bridges, Thompson high resistance and other
galvanometers. As regards machinery, there is an automatic
high speed engine, an Edison no volt dynamo, a T. H. arc
machine, a high frequency alternator and numerous smaller dyna-
mos and motors of various types. There is a complete electro-
plating outfit—engine, dynamo, tanks, buffing wheels and polish-
ing materials. The University lighting plant, consisting of a low
pressure automatic high speed engine, two Edison 25 K. W.
dynamos, and the wiring in the various buildings gives the stu-
dent an opportunity to learn the actual working conditions in this
branch of engineering.
As a condition for graduation, each student must write one essay
in each term of the Sophomore and Junior years on a subject con-
nected with the work of the course. These essays must be
approved by the Professor of English. In the Senior year, each
candidate for a degree must prepare an acceptable thesis contain-
ing the results of extended original research on a subject selected
under the guidance of the head of the department.
The requirements for admission are the same as for the course
in Civil Engineering.
A special course in Applied Electricity will be given for those
students who do not wTish to complete the full course. They may
enter this course on the recommendation from the Director of
Studies, after proving to him that they have the ability to take
up the work with profit.
52
University or Notre Dame.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i.	Trigonometry—The entire subject.
2.	Analytic Geometry—Begun.
II	.—LANGUAGE.
i.	English Rhetoric—Oral exercises and essays.
2.	French or German—Progressive elementary exercises.
III	.—DRAWING.
I.	Freehand Sketches, Charcoal and Crayon Work.
IV	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Shopwork—Exercises in wood working, pattern making and in foundry.
V	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i. Chemistry (Elementary)—Lectures and Laboratory.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
I.	Analytic Geometry—Completed.
2.	Algebra—Completed—Logarithms, Series and Theory of Equations.
II	.—LANGUAGE.
i.	English—Rhetoric—Recitations and Essays.
2.	French or German—Elementary Grammar and Reading.
III	.—DRAWING.
i.	Lettering and Projection Drawing.
IV	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Shopwork—Exercises in filing, chipping, and grinding and tempering
tools.
V	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i. Physics—Elementary—Lectures and Laboratory work.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Calculus—The entire subject of Differential Calculus.
University of Notre Dame.	53
9	IL—LANGUAGE.
i. French or German—Grammar, Translation and Composition.
III	.—DRAWING.
i.	Descriptive Geometry—Theory and practice in drawing a number of
accurate plates.
IV	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i. Shopwork—Hand-turning in brass and iron, polishing and lacquering.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i. Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory—Qualitative Analysis.
VI.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Electricity and Magnetism—Recitations on static and voltaic electricity,
easy problems and laboratory.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Calculus—The entire subject of Integral Calculus.
II	.—LANGUAGE.
i.	Trench or German—Grammar and the reading of scientific and conver-
sational works.
III	.—DRAWING.
i.	Perspective and Line Shading.
IV	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i. Shopwork—Accurate work on engine lathes, planers, shapers, and mill-
ing machines.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i. Physics—Lectures and Laboratory—Advanced course of lectures and
laboratory work on molecular mechanics, heat, electricity and mag-
netism, sound and light.
VI.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Electricity and Magnetism—Recitations on relations of currents to mag-
netism, units, practical and absolute, problems and laboratory.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Analytic Mechanics—Principles of Statics and Kinetics.
I>
54	University of Notre Dame.
II.—DRAWING.	’
i. Technical—Shades and Shadows, parts of machines.
HI.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i. Mechanism—Principles of Machinery, Gear Teeth and Belting.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Physics—Laboratory—Practical electrical measurements, standardizing
instruments, determining, temperature coefficients, etc.
V	.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
t. Electrical Laboratory — Accurate wrork with sensitive galvanometersv
condensors, etc. Lectures on Magnetism.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i, Analytic Mechanics—Elasticity, Strength of Materials, and Hydraulics.
II	.—DRAWING.
i.	Technical—Designing and drawing a simple machine; making working
drawings of parts.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Mechanism—Completed—Designing and building a working model of
an elementary combination.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
I. Physics—Laboratory—Accurate work with standards of resistance E-
M. E., current strength and self induction.
V.—electrical ENGINEERING.
i. Electrical Laboratory—Magnetic distribution, permeability and hystere-
sis. Photometry standards and methods. Insulation resistance.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Dynamo Electric Machinery — Mathematics applied in principles of
machinery and circuits. Alternate currents treated mathematically.
II	.—DRAWING.	.
i.	Technical—Designing switch-boards and apparatus. W’iring of build-
ings.
University of Notre Dame.
55
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Thermodynamics—Lectures on the action of heat, isothermal, adiabatic
and isodiabatic lines. Indicator diagrams of perfect engines.
IV	.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Electrical Laboratory—Characteristic curves of dynamos, efficiency tests
by absorption dynamometers, complete study of arc and incandescent
machines.
Second Term.
I .—MATHEM ATI CS.
i. Dynamo Electric Machinery—Completed.
II	.—DRAWING.
i.	Technical—Designing direct and alternating current dynamos, trans-
formers and accessory apparatus.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Prime Movers—Steam, hot air and gas engines, valve gears and govern-
ors, water motors and turbines.
IV	.— ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Electrical Laboratory—Complete engine and dynamo efficiency tests,
storage batteries. Alternate current working and transformer tests.
56	University of Notre Dame.
Gourse in Mechanical Engineering
This course leads to the degree of Mechanical Engineer and
qualifies men for the successful management of machinery in
manufacturing establishments, the designing of machinery for *
special purposes, the laying out and installing of the machinery
plants of mills and factories. The course is strong in Mathe-
matics, Physics, Drawing and Applied Mechanics, all of which
have a practical application in this profession.
The machine shop practice, pattern making, foundry and forg-
ing is taught in a separate building specially arranged for the
purpose. Facilities for calorimetry, efficiency tests with promy
brake and indicator cards of engines, are provided for here. The
requirements for admission and the work in English are the same
as those specified in the course of Electrical Engineering.
An acceptable thesis must be prepared in the Senior year,
embodying the results of an original investigation in mechanical
work under the guidance of an instructor.
The course in the Freshman and Sophomore years is the same
as the first two years of the course in Electrical Engineering,
except that electricity and magnetism are omitted in the Sopho-
more year.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Analytic Mechanics—Principles of Statics and Kinetics.
II	.—DRAWING.
I.	Technical—Shades and shadows. Parts of machines applying these
principles.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Mechanism—Principles of machinery, gear teeth and belting.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Physics—Laboratory—Advanced work in heat, using Melloni’s, heat
apparatus, water calorimeters, etc.
University of Notre Dame.
57
Second Term.
I.— MATHEMATICS.	‘
I. Analytic Mechanics—Elasticity, strength of materials, ultimate resis-
tance to rupture by tension. Hydraulics, flow of fluids through pipes.
II	.—DRAWING.
i.	Designing and making working drawings and blue prints of a complete
machine for a specific purpose.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
i.	Mechanism—Complete designing and building of a working model of
an elementary combination.
IV	.—EDECTRICAD ENGINEERING.
i.	Daboratory—Efficiency tests of dynamos; investigation of systems of
lighting and powrer distribution.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Applied—In the design of parts and proportions of complete machines.
II	.—PHYSICAD SCIENCE.
i.	Mineralogy—Properties of ores, tests and modes of reduction. Dabor-
atory.
III	.— MECHANICAD ENGINEERING.
i.	Thermodynamics—Dectures on the action of heat, isothermal adiabatic
and isodiabatic lines, indicator cards of perfect engines.
2.	Advanced laboratory work—Calibration and use of dynamometers of
various kinds, calorimeters, etc.
IV	.—DRAWING.
i.	Technical—Designing complete machines, power plants and mills.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
i. Applied—For design of engines and boilers and the other prime movers.
.	IL—PHYSICAD SCIENCE.
i.	Metallurgy—Properties of steel, iron and other metals used in machine
construction.
III	.—MECHANICAD ENGINEERING.
i.	Prime Movers—Steam, hot air and gas engines, water motors, turbines,
valve gears and governors.
2.	Daboratory—Advanced work on lubricants, friction and plant efficiency.
IV	.—DRAWING.
i.	Technical—Complete drawings of systems of power transmission.
58
University of Notre Dame.
Gourse of Biological Science.
This course leads to the Degree of “Bachelor of Science in
Biology.” The University has provided this special course for
students who desire to devote their time largely to biological pur-
suits, either as an immediate preparation for the study of medi-
cine or veterinary science, or with a view to teaching, or other-
wise engaging in biological research.
Entrance Requirements.
i. Latin Grammar completed and reading of Ceesar, with trans-
lation of easy English sentences into Latin. 2. English Gram-
mar completed. 3. English Composition (one year’s course). 4.
Arithmetic completed. 5. Algebra to quadratics inclusive. 6.
Geometry, plane and solid completed. 7. Modern History com-
pleted. 8. U. S. History. 9. French or German equal to two
years course in the University;' i. e., ability to write and translate
easy prose.
From the programme of studies laid down, it may be seen that
during the first two years the student must acquire knowledge
of the elements of biological science, as well as a thorough
knowledge of Chemistry.
During the last two years he is led deeper into the study of
both the organic and inorganic worlds, and at the same time is
required to apply his knowledge. During these two years the
student is urged, not merely to repeat the experiments and obser-
vations made by others, but every facility and encouragement is
given him to devote himself to original investigation%
The students in this course are also required to prepare an
essay on some biological subject during the first term of the
Junior Year, and a monograph during the second term of the
same year. In the Senior Year they must prepare a graduation
thesis of not less than 6,000 words. Both the monograph and
the thesis must be accompanied with original drawings. No
student will receive a degree without fulfilling these conditions.
University of Notre Dame.
59
Students not preparing themselves for the study of medicine
may substitute for the advanced courses in Anatomy and Physi-
ology, equivalents from any other Course, either Mathematics,
Physics, or Bnglish Literature. Finally, it is hardly necessary
to add that all the various laboratories are well supplied with the
apparatus necessary for an extended course in Biology, and that
few schools of science offer their students such freedom in the use
of apparatus and laboratory accommodations.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Elementary Course in Human Anatomy and Physiology.
2.	Elements of Microscopical Technology and of Human Histology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Elementary Course in Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
III	.—ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
«
I. Rhetoric—Sentence Structure—Figures of Speech.
IV.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
I. German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
i. Free-Hand Drawing.
Second Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Elementary Course in Zoology—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
2.	Elements of Microscopical Technology and of Animal Histology.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
I. Elementary Course in Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Work.
III	.—ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
I-	. Rhetoric—Study of Metrical Composition—Required Readings.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
i. German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
I. Free-Hand Drawing.
6o
University of Notre Dame.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Elementary Course in Botany and work in Botanical Laboratory.
2.	Advanced Microscopical Technology.
3.	Elementary Vegetable Histology.
4.	Cytology—Lectures and Demonstr itions^in Biological Laboratory.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1.	German or French — (See Course in Languages.)
IV	.—DRAWING.
1. Free-Hand Drawing.
One short essay on subject selected by the Professor of Biology.
Second Term.
I	.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Biology—Study of Types of Animals and Plants.
2.	Elementary Course in Botany—Vegetable Morphology and Plant
Analysis.	'
3.	Microchemistry and Elementary Vegetable Histology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
2.	Elementary Organic Chemistry.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1. German or French—(See Course in Languages.)
IV.—DRAWING.
1. Free-Hand Drawing.
Two short essays on subjects selected by the Professor of Biology.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
2.	Advanced Course in Zoology—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
University of Notre Dame.
6i
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Qualitative Chemical Analysis.
2.	Mineralogy—Classification of Minerals and Laboratory Work.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
i.	German or Trench—(See Course in Languages.)
One essay of not less than 1,000 words, satisfactory in matter, style and
form.
'	Second Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
2.	Advanced Course in Zoology—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
3.	Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates with Special Work in Mammalian
Anatomy.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Quantitative Chemical Analysis.
2.	Geology and Palaeontology.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1.	German or Drench—(See Course in Languages.)
Monograph on subject selected in Zoology or Botany of not less than
2,000 words and illustrated by original drawings.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy—Work in Dissecting Room.
2.	Advanced Human Physiology.
3.	Advanced Course in Human Histology.
4.	Advanced Course in Botany—Structure and Classification of Cryptogams.
5.	Bacteriology—Lectures and Practical Work.
II	.—SANITARY SCIENCE.
1.	Lectures on Health and Public Hygiene.
III	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic.
IV.—MODERN LANGUAGE.	*
1. German or Trench—(See Course in Languages.)
62
University or Notre Dame.
Second Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
i.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
2.	Advanced Course in Human Physiology.
3,	Advanced Course in Botany—Structure and Classification of Phanero-
gams, Plant Analysis.
4.	Advanced Course in Vegetable Histology.
5.	Comparative Embryology - Study of the Development of a Chick.
6.	Photo-Micrography.
II.—SANITARY SCIENCE.
[. Lectures on Health and Public Hygiene.
2. Elements of Materia Medica. (Optional.)
HI.—MBNTAI/ SCIENCE.
1. General Metaphysics and Psychology.
IV.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1. German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
Graduation Thesis containing not less than 6,000 words, must be handed
in before the 1st of June, and must be illustrated by original pen drawings.
University of Notre Dame.
63
Law Department.
Faculty.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNES, EL. D., Dean,
International Eaw, Equity Jurisprudence and Pleadings, Common Law
Pleadings, Real and Personal Property, Evidence, Domestic
Relations, Contracts, Torts, etc.
HON. LUCIUS HUBBARD, EL. D.,
Insurance and Code Pleadings.
ABRAHAM L. BRICK, LL. D.,
Criminal Law, Pleading and Practice.
HON. TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Appellate Jurisdiction of Supreme Courts.
HON. PRANK SCALES, LL. D.,
Assessments and Taxation.
HON. RICHARD PRENDERGAST, LL. D.,
Assignments.
HON. JOHN GIBBONS, LL. D.,
Constitutional Law.
HON. LUCIUS G. TONG, A. M., LL. B.,
Banks and Banking.
WILLIAM P. BREEN, A. M., LL. B.,
Statutory Eaw.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
Political Economy.
GEORGE E. CLARKE, A. M., LL. M.,
Advocacy.
REV. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Toxicology and Medical Jurisprudence.
64
University of Notre Dame.
The course of study in this Department covers a period of three
years. However, when students are entitled to advanced stand-
ing by reason of previous study, or have been actually engaged
in the practice of law, one or two years of faithful work may en-
able them to complete the course. And so where they have
studied a year or more in other law schools. While it is desirable
that three years should be given to the prosecution of legal studies
before seeking admission to the bar, yet persons who attend all
the lectures and exercises of the course and diligently apply them-
selves to the discharge of the duties devolving upon them may
finish in two years.
The regular course comprises three years. The student in it
must be at least 17 years of age. He must have a fair general
education and be able accurately to write the English language.
A preliminary examination may be resorted to as a means of as-
certaining his educational standing. Once he has been admitted
to the course he may attend at his option any of the collegiate
classes.
The other course comprises a period of two years. The stand-
ard of qulifications for graduation is practially the same in both
courses. The shorter course is designed more particularly for the
accomodation of students who have reached or passed the age of
18 years and acquired a good general education. Students of
this course must apply themselves chiefly to the study of law. A
proper performance of the duties devolving upon them leaves but
little time for other studies.
With the exception of collegiate graduates, whose general edu-
cation is presumably finished, all young men about to enter upon
the study of law should endeavor to take the three years’ course.
Knowing how comprehensive the study of law is, and how
available all branches of human knowledge may be made in its
practice, the officers of the University aim to afford law students
special advantages—all reasonable and approved facilities—in the
work of qualifying themselves for the legal profession. Conse-
quently students of the Law Department may, without additional
expense, enter any of the classes and pursue the studies of the
classical and scientific courses.
University or Notre Dame.
65
5
It ffas been demonstrated that students of the Sophomore or
Junior year in the classical and scientific courses may enter with
advantage upon the study of law, attending daily at least one of
the lectures. In such instances, they have been able to qualify
themselves for graduation and admission to the bar in from three
to four years. In other words, they have been able to finish the
law either contemporaneously with their graduation in the collegi-
ate courses or within a year afterward.
Students who do not intend to practice law or become candi-
dates for the degree of LL. B., but wish simply to complete their
education by adding to their acquirements a knowledge of
legal principles, may, at any proper time during the year, have
their names enrolled upon the list of students in the Taw Depart-
ment. No extra expense is thereby entailed. However, such
students must be sufficiently advanced in age and education to
justify the belief that they can understand and appreciate instruc-
tion in the law. The number of students of this class is likely to
increase steadily, for year by year it is becoming more and more
manifest that an education in our time is not complete without a
knowledge of at least the elementary principles of the law. Many
a business man has had to face financial ruin on account of want
of acquaintance with the law. Many a person has, by an incon-
siderate act, due to his ignorance of the law, forfeited claim to the
protection of the court and the vindication of his rights. Many
a person has been compelled to do exactly the contrary of what
he intended through his failure to understand the essential ele-
ments of a contract. Many a one has been compelled to pay
heavy damages for personal injuries caused by negligence, or fail-
ure to perform a duty, or improper performance of it, where no
liability would exist if the “law of torts” had been known and
observed. As the law is over and around every creature from the
first moment of his being until the grave has closed upon him, it
would be impossible to overestimate its utility and importance.
Indeed, there is no study that can at all compare with it in practical
utility, in training the mind to accuracy of observation, in
strengthening the judgment and directing it to intelligent discri-
mination in the whole wide range of secular affairs. Without a
knowledge of at least the elementary principles of the law, educa-
tion in our day can hardly be pronounced complete.
66
University of Notre Dame.
The Ghief Methods of Instruction
in the Law Department consist in the delivery daily oi three
lectures, the taking of copious notes on the same by students, the
subsequent reading by them of the authorities cited in the notes,
the study of the standard elementary text-books, the analysis and
recitation in substance at least of the most important leading
cases, oral examinations daily and written examinations weekly,
the trial of actions at law and suits in equity in the Moot Court,
debates and exercises in public speaking at least once a week.
One of the professors presides as judge of the Moot Court and
chairman of the society meetings. The Moot Court is reg-
ularly organized, having the necessary officers, such as judge,
clerk, prosecuting attorney, sheriff, baliff, reporters, etc. Plead-
ings are filed and actions or suits begun in as close accordance as •
practicable wTith the proceedings of the County, State and Federal
Courts.
Four classes are taught daily. Three hours are devoted to the
lectures, while one hour is giving to ‘ ‘quizzing’ ’ and recitations.
Wednesday afternoon and Saturday evening are devoted to Moot
Court work and exercises in public speaking. Students take full
notes of the lectures. These cover the whole domain of the law
and state the principles clearly and tersely. They state what
seems to be the correct or established rules and avoid the contra-
diction that perplex so many students. They are deemed highly
valuable, not only in preparing for examinations, but also in sub-
sequent practice, as the latest decisions are often found cited in
them. In the ‘ ‘quiz’ ’ class it is sought by question and answer
to cover the whole ground of the law. Questions bearing upon
every branch and phase of it are put to the students during the two
or three years of their course, and almost necessarily they be-
come familiar not only with them, but also with the proper an-
swers. Hence, the ground is covered, ist, by the lectures; 2d,
by the study of notes and reading and analysis of important
decisions; 3d, by the study of the best elementary text-books,
lists of which can be had from the professors; 4th, by the daily
examinations or “quizzes.” These “quizzes” are exceptionally
instructive and interesting. They are conducted orally—in con-
versational style. They are not designed to puzzle or confuse the
University or Notre Dame.

students. On the contrary, the aim is to make everything clear
and intelligible to them. Moreover, the students are invited to
ask the examiner for information upon any and every topic that
may seem in any way obscure to them. At certain times adjudi-
cated cases of special importance are analyzed and explained.
The rise, organization and development of courts likewise receive
due attention. The common law and code methods of beginning
an action, filing the pleadings, joining issue, impanelling the jury,
examining witnesses, applying the rules of evidence, preparing
instructions, receiving the verdict, moving for a new trial, argu-
ing the motion for it, taking the motion for it, taking the cases to
higher courts on appeal, preparing the record, abstract and brief,
and doing all things necessary in the management of a trial, are
fully described and exemplified. Matters that could not profitably
be treated at length in the lectures, with the requisite variety of
illustrations and qualifications, are taken up and considered at
‘ ‘quiz. ’ ’ Hypothetical cases involving the principles that students
find it most difficult to master are frequently submitted, analyzed
and explained. The questions and answers cover all the most
important principles stated in the notes, but the range of the
“quiz’ ’ is broader in certain directions than the notes. Nothing is
overlooked which may legitimately be made the subject of a ques-
tion in the examination for admission to the bar. It is evidently
due in no small measure to this fact that the graduates of this
Department have been so exceptionally successful in their exami-
nations. Certain it is that no law school in the country has a
more creditable record than Notre Dame in this regard. How-
ever, the Supreme Court of Indiana has adopted a rule providing
for the admission of graduates of this Department on motion, or
without examination. Under this rule they may present them-
selves before the court and receive certificates of admission to the
bar. They are likewise admitted on motion to the bar of the
Federal courts. It is required, however, that applicants for
admission to the bar of this State shall be voters.
.	The Common Law
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the law generally
prevalent throughout the Union. It addresses itself to almost all
the relations of life. In fact, about nineteen out of everji twenty
68
University of Notre Dame
cases tried, in our courts are decided in accordance with, its prin-
ciples. It is generally uniform in its operation. However, the
statutory enactments of State Legislatures overcome and displace
it so far as they conflict with it. These enactments differ materi-
ally in different States, owing to unlike conditions and local dif-
ferences. Thus it is that the laws of certain States are so radi-
cally unlike the laws of other States. Of course, there are
instances in which statutes are passed to cover acts and conditions
not provided for by the common law; but in most instances the
exsting statutes qualify, displace or render inoperative some rules
of the common law. The repeal of statutes having this effect
restores the common law rules to their former force and efficacy.
In view of these facts, thorough instruction is here given in the
common law. Neither lawyers nor judges pretend to know the
statutes of any other State than that in which they practice or
preside. Moreover, no court pretends to take judicial cognizance
of or know the statutes of any other State than that in which it
has its being and jurisdiction. In fact, a knowledge of the
statutes of different States would be more confusing and bewilder-
ing than profitable to judges, lawyers and students. In an exam-
ination for admission to the bar in any State of the Union no
question is put and nothing is said relative to the statutes of any
other- State. . There are, however certain fundamental statutory
enactments that exist without material diversity in their scope and
purpose in almost all the States. Again, other statutes somewhat
less important and. fundamental in character exists in groups of
States. Such statutes as these may profitably be studied in
classes, in connection with the common law; but it would be
worse then useless for a student to attempt to investigate and
study the mazes of statutory difference in the several States.
Hence it is recommended as advisable for each student to bring
with him when he comes here in September to pursue the study
of law a copy of the revised statutes of his, own State or of the
State in which he proposes to practice.
In the Matter of Expense,
no discrimination is made between law students and the students
of the regular collegiate courses. The fee for board, lodging,
tuition, washing, the mending of linens, etc., is fixed at $300.00
University of Notre Dame.	69
tor the scholastic year. Terms of payment and other information
will be found under the head of expenses, page 20.
Isolated as Notre Dame is, students enjoy immunity from the
distractions and temptations of city life and need incur no note-
worthy expenses aside from those stated. They live in an atmos-
phere of study, and every incentive and feeling of emulation
aroused in them tends to the formation of studious habits. Thus
their work is rendered peculiarly effective. It has often been
demonstrated that nowhere else do students accomplish more work
in a given time. This fact is not to be overlooked in considering
the matter of expense. In order to maintain this salutary state
of things, the same rules of discipline apply to all students.
Access may be had at reasonable hours, not only to the Lemon-
nier Library, but also to the Daw Library. This contains all the
standard text-books and reports. Every decision rendered for
several years in the State, Territorial and Federal courts may be
found in the Law Library. Consequently students need purchase
but very few law books. In this regard they are specially favored,
for at other law schools the item of books alone for each student
frequently amounts to from $100 to $200.
Young men eligible to begin the study of law may be matricu-
lated as students of this Department at any time during the year.
However, it is advisable to enter at or near the beginning of the
scholastic year. Students in the graduating year are known as
Seniors. The others are called Juniors. All law students,
whether Seniors or Juniors, whose general education is sufficiently
advanced to place them on a footing with students in the Senior
or Junior class in the collegiate courses, are entitled to free rooms
in Sorin Hall.
A Post-Graduate Course
for law students has recently been established. Graduates may
return at any time and enter upon the studies of this course. By
devoting a year to the work prescribed and passing the examina-
tion they become entitled to the degree of Master of Laws. They
are entitled to rooms free of charge provided their general educa-
tion is sufficiently advanced to put them on a footing with students
in the Senior or Junior class in the collegiate courses. The course
of instruction consists mainly in the analytical study and writing

70
University of Notre Dame.
of pleadings, the examination of witnesses, the taking of deposi-
tions, the trials of actions at law and suits in equity, the practical
application of rules of evidence, the preparation of briefs and
arguments for the higher courts, the study of leading cases, prac-
tice from time to time in what is popularly called ‘‘office work,”
daily participation in the exercises of the “quiz class,” a compar-
ative study of the legislation of different countries, and the influ-
ence of the civil law upon the development and modern jurispru-
dence. It is believed that the student who finishes this course
and reads carefully the revised statutes of his State will be quali-
fied to enter at once upon the practice of law.
Bvery student who is a candidate for the degree of Bachelor of
haws or Master of haws is required to write, at least six weeks,
before graduation
A Thesis
upon some topic selected by himself. It should not be less than
40 folios in length. The writer is expected to read the thesis at
a special meeting of the class and to defend the propositions set
forth in it. Having read and defended it successfully, he places
it in the hands of the Dean, whose approval it must have. If it
' be not meritorious in matter, form and style, the student may
forfeit the right to be considered a candidate for graduation until
the following year and the submission by him of a satisfactory
thesis.
In Conclusion
it may be stated that nowhere can the study of law be more profit-
ably pursued than at Notre Dame. The diligent student may
here qualify himself to pass the most rigid examination in any
State. He may lay broad and deep the foundation of his legal
knowledge and fit himself to become notable in the profession and
worthy of its honor.
Students here have a decided advantage over those of some
other law schools, in that they are not so numerous as to make
the Law Class unwieldy and cumbersome. It is hardly noticed
in some places who does and who does not attend class, and the
relative standing of students is often quite unknown to the pro-
fessors. So numerous are they that the books of even' a vast
library would be inadequate for their use. A score of them may
University of Notre Dame.	71
desire to refer to and read the same book at the same time. Tak-
ing Moot Court cases in turn, they can hardly try before the pro-
fessors more than one or two in a year. They may not be required
to answer each on an average more than one question a week.
They receive little or no practical instruction. Left almost wholly
to themselves in the choice of methods of study, it is not remark-
able that there should be an absence of system in the work they
do, nor is it singular that many of them fail to make substantial
progress and qualify themselves to undergo successfully, a rigid
examination for admission to the bar. Such evils almost invit-
ably attend the work of instructing a very large class. Moreover,
a large corps of professors would be requisite in such a case. And
who does not know that the larger the corps of professors, the
more difficult for them to act in unison, to avoid repetition, to
cover the law in its entirety, and to understand readily and work
effectively to overcome the peculiar weaknesses and drawbacks of
each student?
Law students at Notre Dame have none of these evils to con-
tend against. Here each student of the class comes frequently in
contact with the professors and becomes personally known to
them. He is directed and aided in his work. He is required to
attend class regularly and to obey in his deportment and the dis-
charge of his duties, certain prescribed rules of discipline—rules
of discipline deemed necessary for his welfare. Thus he may be
strengthened at every weak point. Thus he may be rounded out
into symmetrical and useful manhood. Thus may his character
be formed in the mould of honor and impressed with the noble
traits and admirable qualities of gentleman, scholar and lawyer.
72
University of Notre Dame.
Commercial Course.
This course can be completed in two years. It includes arith-
metic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United States history,
reading, orthography, penmanship, book-keeping, Commercial
Taw—in other words all the branches of a complete business edu-
cation.
When the character and needs of the countrjr are considered,
this course will appear the most practical, and one of the most
important that an educational institution can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to take a
complete college course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enrol themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan of
study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such
studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The train-
ing resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost
benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always received the
most careful attention from the officers and the Commercial Faculty
of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the graduates of
this course a more complete business training than can be obtained
in any purely commercial college. Believing that a business edu-
cation includes something more than a mere knowledge of Book-
keeping, and that a good education cannot be obtained in a few
weeks, the authorities have extended this course over two years—
the shortest time in which studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a pupil desire during this period to
pursue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so General His-
tory and Linear Drawing are especially recommended to cominer-
cial students. They also have the opportunity of attending an
elementary course of the Physical and Natural Sciences. Many
commercial students find it also to their advantage to take up the
University or Notre Dame. .
73
study of German or French, for which there are the amplest facili-
ties. A talented and studious young man may thus in the course
of two years find himself in the possession of a most valuable
practical education, which will fit him to take his place in the
front rank of educated business men.
Junior Year.
Both Terms.
i.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in Birst Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
2.	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in Birst Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
3.	Geography—The matter included in both Terms of Collegiate Prepara-
tory Course.—Sadlier.
4.	United States History—The matter included in both Terms of Collegiate
Preparatory Course.—Sadlier.
5.	Reading and Orthography.
6.	Penmanship.
Senior Year.
First Term.
1.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in Birst Term of Second
Year Preparatory of Classical Course.
2.	Composition.
3.	Orthography.
4.	Book-keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Bntry.
Second Term.
1.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental, Completed—Same as in Second Term
of Second Year Preparatory.
2.	Composition.
3.	Orthography.
4.	Book-keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.
5.	Commercial Law.
6.	Penmanship.
Optional Studies—Phonography, Telegraphy, Typewriting,
General History and Linear Drawing.
74
University or Notre Dame.
The routine of study in the course of Book-keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:
Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by
Double Fntry; ist Series, embracing the Buying and Selling of
Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, on Account of Others;
3d Series, Buying and Selling the same on Joint Account; 4th
Series, Importing and Exporting on Private Account, on Account
oi Others, and on Account of Ourselves and Others in Company;
5th Series, Receiving and Forwarding Merchandise, the Manage-
ment and Settlement of Fxecutors’ Accounts, Buying and Selling,
Remitting, Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills
of Exchange, Banking—Private and Joint Stock—Steamboating,
Railroading, Retailing by Double Fntry, Farming, Mechanics’
Accounts. Saturdays are devoted to Commercial Raw. Particular
attention is paid to the explanation of the Raw of Negotiable
Paper.

University or Notre Dame.
75
Modern LanAuaAes.
GERMAN.
FIRST YEAR.
first term.
i.	First German Book—Rudiments of the German language.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Exercises in Reading, Penmanship and Orthography.
SECOND TERM.
i.	First German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
a. Exercises in Reading and Written Translations.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
I.	Second German Book.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	First German Reader.—Ahn-Henn.
3.	Written Exercises.
SECOND TERM.
1. Second German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
1. First German Reader—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
Written Exercises.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST TERM.	„
1.	Third German Book—Seventy-five exercises.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Fables and Tales.—Lessing-Gellert.
3.	German Grammar—Part First.—Lange.
4.	Written Exercises—Selected.
SECOND TERM.
1.	Third German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Fables and Tales—Part Second.—Lessing-Geilert.
3.	German Grammar—Part Second.—Lange.
4.	Written Exercises—Selected.
FOURTH YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
1.	Fourth German Book.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Schiller’s William Tell—Three Acts.— Whitney.
3.	German Composition—Part First.—Lange.
4.	Selections from Schiller’s Lyrical Poems.—Turner.
0
76	LTniversity of Notre Dame.
second term.
i.	Fourth. German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Schiller’s William Tell—Completed.— Whitney.
3.	German Composition—Part Second.—Lange.
4.	Introduction to German literature.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two the Ger-
man language, is employed as the medium of instruction.
FRBNGH.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
1.	Progressive French Course—Part First.—Fasnacht.
a. Progressive French Reader—Part First.—Fasnacht.
3.	Orthography.
SECOND TERM.
1.	Elementary Grammar.—Fasnacht.
a. Progressive French Reader—To the End.—Fasnacht.
3.	Exercises in Grammar.
SECOND YEAR.
first term.
1.	Synthetic French Grammar.—Fasnacht.
2.	La Fontaine’s Select Fables.—Moriarty.
3.	Translation, Composition and Conversation.
SECOND TERM.
1.	Synthetic French Grammar.—Fasnacht.
2.	Sandeau’s Mademoiselle de la Seiglier.— Warren.
3.	Fortier’s Sept Grands Auteurs du XIXE Siecle.
4.	History of French Literature—Lectures.
5.	Exercises in Grammar, Composition and Idioms.
THIRD YEAR.
first term.
1. Grammaire Frangaise.—Noel et Chapsal.
7..	Litterature Classique—Lectures.
3.	Discours sur le style.—Buffon.
4.	Telemaque.—Fasquelle.
SECOND TERM.
1.	Grammaire Frangaise.—Noel et Chapsal.
2.	Characters.—La Bruyere.
3.	Lamartine’s Meditations.—Curme.
4.	Litterature Classique—Lectures.
5.	Exercises in Composition and Idioms.
N. B.—The Third Year’s Course is conducted chiefly in French.
University or Notre Dame.
77
Miscellaneous.
Physical and Natural Sciences.
Notre Dame has always given special attention to the cultiva-
tion of the Physical and Natural Sciences, but during the past
few years, extra efforts have been made in this direction, with a
view of affording to her students all the facilities and advantages
that may be found in the best equipped scientific schools. A
large and commodious building, in the Romanesque style, known
as “Science Hall,” has been erected for this purpose, and it is
the intention of the authorities to make it as perfect in all its
appointments as any similar institution in the country. It is one
hundred and thirty-one feet long by one hundred and four feet
deep, and proportionally high. There are upwards of twenty-
five spacious, well lighted and ventilated rooms in the building,
nearly all of which are designed either as lecture rooms or labora-
tories for the various branches of experimental science.
The building has been carefully planned for the purposes to
which it is appropriated, and embodies in its construction, all the
improvements and conveniences to be found in the most approved
scientific structures of this country and Bur ope. Special efforts
have been made to render the building convenient for both the
professor and the student.
The laboratories, lecture-rooms, and cabinets are so connected
with one another, and with the grand apartments set aside for the
museum, that specimens and apparatus are always at hand when
desired, and where they can be used. The students of Natural
History have their specimens systematically arranged in rooms
adjoining their laboratories, whilst the students of Chemistry and
Physics have their cabinets conveniently near, and at the same
time, independent of each other, owing to the peculiar plan of
the building. The various classes can enter the rooms and labor-
atories without interfering in any way with one another, and can
continue their studies and experiments without interuption. The
general principles of science are taught by lectures, and these are
supplemented by practical work in the various laboratories
78
University of Notre Dame.
In Chemistry and Physics the necessary apparatus is at the dis-
posal of the student, and he is expected to verify, by observation
and experiment, what has not been experimentally illustrated in
the lectures he has attended.
The cabinets of the Physical laboratory contain many fine
pieces of apparatus. For the illustration of sound phenomena,
there are a Scott Koenig phonautograph, a Mercadier radiophone,
a large set of electrically operated tuning forks with resonaters,
by Koenig, a wave siren and a large collection of organ pipes of
various types and sizes.
For the study of radiant heat there is an elaborate Melloni-
Tyndall apparatus with thermopiles and sensitive galvanometer.
There is an exceptionally fine cathetometer, a dividing engine
engine and a break circuit chronograph.
In the department of light there are several horizontal and ver-
tical projectors with electric arc light and a lime light stere-
optican with a large collection of slides. There is a complete
apparatus for the study of polarization, several fine spectroscopes,
Rowland diffraction gratings and a number of lenses and curved
mirrors.
In all these departments as well as in those of Physics and
Chemistry, special stress will be laid on practical work, and a
student’s proficiency will be estimated by his record of observa-
tion and experiment in the laboratory and workshop.
In the study of Botany, Zoology and Physiology, each student
is provided with a microscope and the necessary accessories, and
most of his time is spent in microscopic study under the direction
of the Professor.
In Geology and Mineralogy the system is the same. The
student commences work in the laboratory at once, and thus early
becomes acquainted with the various minerals, rocks, fossils, etc.
The blowpipe, microscope, polariscope and clinometer are in
constant use to verify what has been learned in the lecture room,
and to fix it on the memory.
A Photographic laboratory is also fitted up in the building,
where the student is enabled to learn, practically and in a short
time, the art of modern Photography, and thus prepare himself
for professional work in the studio.
University or Notre Dame.
79
Rooms have likewise been set aside for Assaying and Metal-
lurgy, and it is the purpose of those in charge to leave nothing
undone to make the work in this department compare favorably
with that accomplished in the others.
Additions of apparatus, specimens, and books for reference are
constantly being made to the various departments, and no effort
will be spared to make ‘‘Science Hall” a recognized centre of
thorough work in genuine practical science.
Institute of Technology.
This building has been erected on the most approved plans,
after a study of the best institutions of the kind at home and
abroad. In size it is 109 feet long by 40 feet wide and three
stories high. Convenience, ventilation, and an abundance of
light are provided for in all the rooms.
In the Department of Mechanical Engineering, there are fully
equipped workshops for wood and metals. Steam engines and
dynamo-electric generators, and motors of various types and sizes
furnish the power required, and afford the student special facili-
ties in making experiements concerning the various forms of
energy.
Those who do not take the course of Engineering may, if
recommended by the Director of Studies, enter the shops for a
course in manual training, or for the purpose of acquiring skill in
practical mechanics.
Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre
Dame to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use of
which is so necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German language—the classes of which are so numerously
attended—has been taught by four instructors during the present
scholastic year. The number of students attending the German
classes is becoming greater every year. The study of Erench is
recommended to all students of the Collegiate Course. The Course
of Spanish will receive special attention in the future, and other
modern languages may be taught when required.
Telegraphy and Typewriting.
Telegraphy invites the special attention of the students of the
Commercial and Scientific courses; and a knowledge of Type-
8o
University of Notre Dame.
writing, which can be acquired in a short time, is useful and
valuable for all.
For the Telegraphic Department a special room is provided and
equipped with standard line instruments, including a complete
Wheatstone bridge set for electrical measurement. Instruction is
given by an experienced, practical operator. Bach student
receives individual attention and is urged to make as rapid pro-
gress as possible. The text-book used is Abnethy’s “ Commercial
and Railway Telegraphy. ’ ’
In the Typewriting Department the machines in use are new
Remington’s with the latest improvements. Thorough instruc- -
tion is given in the manipulation and care of the machine, in the
correct forms of business letters, law work, essays and general
writing.
Phonography, or Shorthand,
is of very great assistance to those in the higher classes, enabling
its possessor to take verbatim notes of lectures, etc. It is adapt-
able to the English, French, German or Spanish languages.
With a good English education it is a profession in itself, and
one not likely to be overcrowded for years to come. First-class
stenographers and typewriters are always sure of employment,
and pupils in both branches here find every facility to fit them for
the highest grades of practical work.
Phonography and Typewriting have, of late, come into general
use in legal and commercial work—in the court, the law office,
and the counting-room, in business houses, banks, insurance and
railroad offices, etc.,—and, for first-class stenographers especially,
the demand exceeds the supply. A knowledge of these useful
arts will, therefore, prove a strong recommendation for confiden-
tial and lucrative positions.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre Dame
in the facilities afforded to students for acquiring proficiency in
elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exercises are prac-
tical, and the subjects of study exhibit judicious variety. These
exercises are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is peculiarly adapted
for the purpose, being conveniently situated, large, and elegantly
furnished. The exercises constitute an important part in the
University on Notre Dame.
8i
studies of young men who strive to cultivate, with success, liter-
ature, oratory, and the dramatic art. The approved methods of
stimulating and developing the natural elocutionary powers are
called into requisition as occasion seems to warrant. To this
end, the drama receives a due share of attention; from time to
time an appropriate tragedy or comedy is rendered by students,
on the stage of Washington Hall, with all the customary acces-
sories and appointments used in connection with performances.
Four public exhibitions are given during the year, and public
literary exercises are held several times during the same period.
An oratorical contest is one of the notable features marking the
close of the year. For the purpose of encouraging and stimulat-
ing students to put forth their best efforts, premiums and gold
medals are offered to those who most distinguish themselves.
When all these things are duly considered, there need be no hesi-
tation in repeating that ‘ ‘no educational institution in the country
surpasses Notre Dame in the facilities offered to students for
acquiring proficiency in elocution.”
Lecture and Concert Course.
Prominent among the educational advantages enjoyed by the
students of the University, is the course of public lectures and
concerts, which supplement the regular class work.
The University is careful to secure only the best speakers and
musical attractions, and in the past it has been uniformly success-
ful in keeping up to the highest standard of excellence.
It is the aim of those in charge of the course to secure the
services of the leading thinkers and educators as well as the most
distinguished artists of the day.
Drawing.
This department occupies well lighted rooms on the fourth floor
of the main building. The instruction begins with free-hand
drawing, flat and shaded copies in pencil, charcoal and pen, and
object drawing in geometrical figures.
The use of drawing instruments is begun early in the course,
and ample practice is given in drawing accurately, a number of
plates, illustrating problems in Mechanical Engineering. The
principles of projection drawing, descriptive geometry and linear
82
University or Notre Dame.
perspective are taught in their order. Detail sketches are made
from various machines, the object of which is to give the student
a general idea of machine parts and the methods of putting them
together. Tinting, line shading, shading in water colors, tracing
and blue printing receive their share of attention.
The department is amply equipped with models for charcoal
and crayon drawings, plaster casts of ornaments, flowers, fruits,
classic busts and statues. Pen drawing for illustration, and sketch-
ing from nature are the two most popular courses offered.
Music.
The department is complete in all its appointments. It has
efficient Professors and is divided into c asses on the regular Con-
servatory system. An Orchestra of twenty pieces and a Brass
Band of twenty-six instruments, are some of the leading features
of the Department of Instrumental Music.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and
which has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students
during the past few years, will receive even more careful attention
in future, and it is hoped that this branch will become every year
more popular.
Reading Rooms.
The lower floor of Music Hall is divided into large and neatly
furnished Reading Rooms for the benefit of the students of
Brownson and Carroll Halls. These reading rooms are supplied
with books and periodicals from the library, and students have
access to them during the hours of recreation.
The Lemonnier Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers over 50,000 volumes. A reading room has been opened
in connection with the library, in which the leading periodicals
of Europe and America are to be found on file. The members of
the Library Association desire to give their Alma Mater a collec-
tion of books that can stand comparison with those possessed by
any other educational establishment in the United States; there-
fore they call on the friends of the University to assist them by
donations of books, pamphlets, periodicals and manuscripts. All
contributions should be addressed to the librarian of' the Lemon-
nier Library, Notre Dame University, Notre Dame, Ind.
University of Notre Dame.
83
Sorin Hall.
Sorin Hald is a commodious building recently erected for the
use of advanced students. It is situated a short distance south-
west of the church. Facing east, it is on a line with Science
Hall, from which it is separated by an extensive green sward and
beautiful grove. It is a three-story and basement building, and
presents a very attractive appearance. In its construction, special
attention was paid to sanitary conditions, and every apartment
and hall is well lighted and ventilated. During the day, sun-
shine visits every room in the building. All the recent improve-
ments in architecture were considered and discriminatingly intro-
duced in constructing and completing Sorin Hall and arranging
its interior with reference to the convenience of the inmates.
It contains a large number of rooms for the use of students,
besides several apartments intended for other purposes. Bach of
the students’ rooms is supplied with a 16-candle electric light and
heated by steam in cold weather. This building has its own
furnace and heating apparatus, and its own dynamo or electric-
light plant. All its arrangements are suggestive of the conven-
iences and comforts of a home.
The basement is divided into a reading-room, where the student
finds all the late magazines, both American and foreign; a large
apartme t designed for recreation purposes at suitable times,
bath-rooms, etc.
On the first floor, at either side of the main entrance, are two
suits of elegant rooms for offices and chambers. The large apart-
ment at the north end of the building is used as a chapel, and
here the students assemble morning and evening for prayer. The’
Daw Department, with its library, lecture room, moot court room,
etc., is at the south end.
The second and third floors are uniform in arrangement and
similar in appearance. Here are the rooms that the students
occupy. All of them are regularly numbered and neatly fur-
nished; and there is not one of them that does not command an
extended and beautiful view. They serve as chambers for young
84
University or Notre Dame.
men at night and study rooms during the day. Bach room has
but one occupant. Thus it is sought to insure a proper and val-
uable use of time by all. This same consideration has led the Col-
lege authorities to prohibit the inmates of Sorin Hall from calling
on one another, or visiting the rooms of others during the hours ap-
pointed for study. While not at class, nor at meals, nor engaged
in taking necessary recreation upon the campus, students are sup-
posed to be at work in their rooms, although at suitable times they
may meet in the reading room or recreation apartment. This build-
ing is intended for earnest and well-disposed students, who desire to
make the best possible use of their time; and the rules prescribed for
its inmates are practically in harmony with the regular standard of
living to which young men of that class seek to conform. Tor these,
the rules will be found very simple and easy of observance. For
others there can be no relaxation of them. The penalty for the
violation of any of them consists in the forfeiture, by the offender,
of his room and the privileges of Sorin Hall. Where the offense
is gross, the forfeiture is permanent; but where relieved by miti-
gating circumstances, it may be only temporary.
The rules governing students at Sorin Hall are found liberal
enough by all who earnestly desire to work, to be manly and
honorable, to be temperate and industrious, to be pure in speech
and above reproach in conduct. But for such as do not seek to
conform to that standard in the general tenor of their lives, or do
not endeavor to square their actions in accordance with it, the
discipline will soon be found sufficiently stringent to prevent their
remaining as inmates of the building.
The advanced students referred to as entitled to quarters at
Sorin Hall comprise young men of the Senior and Junior years,
in the Classical, Scientific, or any other regular course of the
University curriculum. When a student has attained to that
rank in educational proficiency, whether he has studied here or
elsewhere, he is entitled, without extra charge, to a room and to
the privileges of Sorin Hall. There he may remain until he
finishes, or as long, afterwards as he wishes, should he desire to
pursue post-graduate studies. The same rule applies to students
of the Junior and Senior year, or to post-graduates, who desire to
study law.	■
University of Notre Dame.
85
Minim Department.
For the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen,
there has been established a Department to which the most
scrupulous attention has always been paid by the College authori-
ties; it is known as the Minim Department, and it has always
been one of the greatest objects of interest to the Faculty as well
as to all persons visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an Bnglish education is here imparted, together with
a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French and German. Vocal
Music and Drawing form no extra charge. The pupils of this
department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross, under whose
maternal care they pass nearly the entire day.
Discipline.
The following is the order of the day. Rising at half-past six,
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercises on the Campus; half-past seven, study; half-
past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to twelve,
toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-past one, study;
half-past three, recreation and lunch; half-past six, supper and
recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen
that while the Minims devote never less than six hours a day to
study, they are never more than two hours in succession in the
class-room. The recreation and exercise in the fresh air between
each two hours of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys
to return to their classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the hours of
recreation as well as in the class-room and study hall. The
presence, however, of the Prefect is far from being a restraint on
the amusement of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Pre-
fects to insist that their young charges shall always keep within
the limits of the strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take
86
University or Notre Dame.
part in all sports, organize games, and do everything in their
power to foster the love of healthful exercise. The play grounds
consist of a fine, level, five-acre field, well supplied with turning
poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all other necessary
gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make good use of them can
best be seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which invari-
ably attracts the notice of visitors. Connected with the play
ground is a brick play-hall, 160 feet long, and heated by steam.
In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the cloth-
ing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and covenience of the
Minims. Baths are taken every Saturday. Underclothing is
changed regularly twice a week. Great care is taken that the
boys be neatly dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the
season.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim Department; that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to
supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Association,
which as been established with a view to give the pupils a start,
as early as possible, in elocution. The Society is presided over
by one of the Professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out
the talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are held
once a week, after school hours. These meetings are a source of
pleasure as well as of profit. The members prepare original
compositions, deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc.
Only the best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted
to membership. To encourage this young Literary Society, a
Gold Medal is annually awarded at Commencement for ^locution
to the most deserving member.
General Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much
milder than that which is suited to students more advanced in
age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in
charge endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by
appealing to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose
conduct and application to studies are satisfactory appear under
the heads of Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic, a
University of Notre Dame.
87
paper published weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name
mentioned in these rolls, is found to be as great a reward for the
deserving pupil, as its non-appearance is a punishment for the
undeserving.
Then, again, there is -a Gold Medal awarded at the end of two
full years to these whose deportment has been unexceptionable
during that period. As this fact is made known to the Minim,
immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors to shape
his conduct with a view to receiving an “Honor.” The greatest
care is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and
to inculcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort is
made to foster respect and affection for parents, to whom they are.
expected to write, at least, once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is their
complete separation from the larger students. An elegant and
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording;
ample accommodations for over one hundred pupils, is devoted
to their use. It is four stories in height, one hundred and fifty
feet long, and forty-five feet wide; heated by steam, supplied
throughout with the Edison incandescent electric light, and pro-
vided with hot and cold water. The ceilings in the Study Hall,
Class Rooms, and sleeping apartment are fifteen feet high. The
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant light and
ventilation. The Study Hall commands a charming view from
each of its eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated with
statuary, pictures, choice plants, beautiful flower baskets, etc.
Besides the pleasure the Minims derive from studying in this
bright, cheerful hall, their habits and tastes are cultured by com-
ing in contact with objects so refining. Fronting the building is
a handsome park, which, with its sparkling fountain, rare trees
and flowers, adds not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall,
as well as to the happiness of its inmates.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and '
others, who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that, while the Minims have every possible advantage to
aid them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a
most happy home, where they enjoy the same ease and freedom,
that they would enjoy under the care of their mothers..
88
University or Notre Dame.
Expenses.
Matriculation Fee, payable on first entrance, =	=	$1000
Board, Tuition, etc., per session of ten months, =	=	25000
•*
THE ABOVE RATES ARE PAYABLE
IN ADVANCE AS FOLLOWS:
On Entrance in September, =	=	=	=	$>50 oo
January 15th, =	=	=	. =	=	=	100 00
EXTRAS OPTIONAL.
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons, and
the use of Instrument in this Department is $25 00; for Violin,
Guitar or Mandolin, $15.00.	'
Pupils who remain during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40.00.
Accounts are subject to Sight Draft, without notice, if not paid
within ten days after they have been rendered.
Bach pupil, on entering this department, should have six shirts,
four pairs of drawers, four night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or caps, two
pairs of shoes, two suits of clothes for winter, two suits for sum-
mer, one overcoat, toilet articles, etc.
University or Notre Dame.
89
Catalogue of Students
p
From September, 1895, to June, 1896.
In this list are not included the names of those students who
were dismissed or withdrawn at the request of the College authori-
ities during the scholastic year.
Arce, Julius A......................... Peru,	South America.
Anders, Calvin S.....................................Ohio.
Anderson, John O.................................Kentucky.
Armijo, Justo L.................................New	Mexico.
Atherton, Chester H..............................Illinois.
Arpin, Arthur M...............................Michigan.
Abrahams, George..............................Illinois.
Armijo, Pedro J..............................New	Mexico.
Abrahams, Louis L.............................Illinois.
Allyn, Arthur...........................................Illinois.
Atkinson, John W.................................'.......Illinois.
Brennan, Bdward B......................................Indiana.
Bennett, Hunter M..................................West	Virginia.
Burns, Wm. P...........................................Indiana.
Barrett, Jas. B.....................................California.
Barry, Jas. D..............................................Iowa.
Bryan, Chas. B........................................Tennessee.
Barton, Francis W......................................Illinois.
Byrne, John M............................................Illinois.
Barber, Kent C...........................................Kentucky.
Britz, Nicholas............A'............................Illinois.
Barry, Robert B..
Ball, Alphonsus J
Browne, James H
Buckley, Wm. A.
Brinker, Louis B
...................................  Illinois.
......................................Indiana.
......Massachusetts.
......Kentucky.
......'..............................Kentucky.
Browne, Robert P......................................Iowa.
Browne, James W.......................................Iowa.
Blanchard, Claude L...................................Iowa.
Brennan, James M...................................Indiana.
Burke, John C.......................................Illinois.
Blackman, Judge W..............................    •	Illinois.
Bowlin, Bdward G....................................Indiana.
9-
90
University oe Notre Dame.

Berthelet, Rolette J................................Wisconsin.
Brucker, S. Joseph................................. Wisconsin.
Bulger, John H........................................Indiana.
Beardslee, Louis B.....................................Ohio.'5
Brown, Edward C......................................... Iowa.
Berry, William A.....................................Missouri.
Berry, James B.......................................Missouri.
Burns, Thomas D....................................New	Mexico.
Burke, George C..................................... Michigan.
Bump, Alexander J....................................Illinois.
Burke, Elmer AV......................................Illinois.
Begley, John B........................................Indiana.
Bernardin, Alfred L.................................. Indiana.
Bosworth, Alvah C....................................Illinois.
Bode, Charles H......................................Illinois.
Bode, Francis J......................................Illinois.
Breslin, Francis D..................................New York.
Bullene, John T......................................Missouri.
Bergeron, Ivan R.....................................Illinois.
Bloom, Robert............................................Iowa.
Bullen, William H....................................Illinois.
Brissenden, Fred A....................................Indiana.
Brissenden, Marinus O.................................Indiana.
Blanchfield, Walter J................................Illinois.
Bennett, James........................................ Canada.
Bauwens, Seraphim F..................................Illinois.
Boylan, James A......................................Michigan.
Burke, William P.....................................Illinois.
Boylan, William....................................  Michigan.
Bothel, George A....................................New York.
Boerner, Andrew L......................................  Ohio.
Boyle, Joseph P..................................    .Indiana.
Cavanagh, Thomas T...................................Illinois.
Costello, Martin J...................................Illinois.
Campbell, Michael R................................Tennessee.
Campbell, Eugene....................................Missouri.
Chase, Arthur F...................................  Illinois.
Crilly, Edgar.......................................Illinois.
Cypher, George..................................Pennsylvania.
Corby, John.........................................Missouri.
Corby, Joseph E.....................................Missouri.
Clendenin, Wm. J.....................................Montana.
Carney, Alex R.....................................Wisconsin.
Crane, James R......................................Michigan.
Cullen, Charles T................................... Indiana.

University of Notre Dame.	91
Cullen, Thomas B.......................................Indiana.
Confer, Francis J.................................Pennsylvania.
Curry, Joseph....................................... Minnesota.
Cottin, Daniel S......................................Michigan.
Cornell, Francis B...................................New York.
Cary, Fred B..........................................Arizona.,
Crowdus, Chas. H......................................Missouri.
Cave, Bdward W........................................Illinois.
Cuneo, John B.........................................Illinois.
Coquillard, Alexis.....................................Indiana.
Curtis, Patrick A.....................................Illinois.
Crepeau, Fred...........,......................-........Indiana.
Cowie, Gordon R.......................................Illinois.
Cottin, Francis S.....................................Michigan.
Cunnea, John..........................................Illinois.
Compbell, Cecil B.....................................Illinois.
Cotter, Percy V.......................................Illinois.
Catchpole, Robert J...................................Illinois.
Coquiliard, Joseph A...................................Indiana.
Clark, Robert.........................................Illinois.
Cressy, Clement G......................................Indiana.
Caruthers, John P.....................................Illinois.
Caruthers, Francis J..................................Illinois.
Casparis, Kenneth B.......................................Ohio.
Clifford, Jermiah..................................... Indiana.
Corr, John F. .......................................New York.
Curran, Robert P......................................Michigan.
Clarke, John B.......................................... • .Illinois.
Carroll, Patrick J.. . ............................... Indiana.
Coyne. Claude A...........................................Ohio.
Davila, Jenaro..........................................Mexico.
Daly, Bernard A......................................New Jersey.
Delaney, Bugene A.................................Pennsylvania.
Ducey, John V.........................................Colorado.
Daly, Michael, T.....................................New Jersey.
Dowd, John J......................,...................Illinois.
Duperier, Alfred J...................................Louisiana,
Dukette, Francis -F...................................Michigan.
Darst. Bdward J.......................................Illinois.
Devine, Marcus A....................................  Illinois.
Dugas, Brnest D............................................Illinois.	•
Dinnen, Wm. F..........................................Indiana.
Druiding, Francis X...................................Illinois.
Donovan, John C......................................Minnesota.
Davis, Buell...........................................Indiana.
92
University ok Notre Dame.
Davidson, Alfred H.................................... • • .Texas.
Davis, Grover C...................................... Indiana.
Dugas, Graham........................................Illinois.
Dowling, Ralph W......................................Indiana.
Dwyer, Vincent D......................................Indiana.
Dwyer, Francis J......................................Indiana.
Dreher, Francis P...................................Michigan.
Dorian, Francis P....................................'. Indiana,
Dalton, Patrick J.....................................Indiana.
DeBorimier, Arthur G..................................Indiana.
Dreyer, Francis J.....................................Indiana.
Dwan, Patrick J....................................  Illinois.
Byanson, Francis B....................................Indiana.
Byanson, Bouis C......................................Indiana.
Brhart, Aloysius J...............................Pennsylvania.
Brlich, Oscar P....................................California.
Blliott, Bdwin B................................... Wisconsin.
Brnst, Bmile.............................................Ohio.
Blls, Huron........................................  Illinois.
Blitch, Charles J..................................California.
F'agan, Wm. A...........................................New	York.
Finnerty, Thomas J.....................................Colorado.
Forking, John W........................................... Ohio.
Foulks, Charles M........................................Kansas.
Follen, Peter B.........................................Indiana.
Fitzpatrick, Wm. W........................................Texas.
Flannigan, Chas. P..................................  Minnesota.
Fox, Robert B...........................................Indiana.
Frazer, Samuel H...........................................Ohio.
Fehr, Andrew F.........................................Kentucky.
Farrell, Nicholas J....................................Illinois.
Fera, Adolph C.........................................Illinois.
Filiatrault, Joseph A.................................Minnesota.
Fitzgerald, Bernard G...................................Indiana.
Farley, Arthur J..............'.........................New	York.
Ferguson, Clate W......................................Michigan.
Fischer, Jos. B........................................Illinois.
Frank, Be Roy A........................................Illinois.
Franey, Robert F.......................................Illinois.
Fuhrer, Mansfred........................................Indiana.
Flynn, John P............................................Mexico.
Fennessey, JohnF..................................Massachusetts.
Fox, Alvin J...........................................Illinois.
Foster, Harry P....................................... Illinois.
Fetter, Thomas R.....................................  Kentucky.
University of Notre Dame.
93
Finnerty, William M. J...............................Colorado.
Fitzgerald, Philander J.................................Indiana	.
Flynn, Arthur..........................................Mexico.
Flynn, B. Miles........................................Mexico.
Fielding, Stanley G................................. Illinois.
Freeman, NoelD....................................... Indiana.
Finley, Thomas F.....................................Illinois.
Fredell, George.........................................Idaho.
Frahlich, Peter G.....................................Indiana.
Gallagher, John H....................................Illinois.
Gaukler, Arthur H....................................Michigan.
Goeke, John M............................................Ohio.
Gibson, Norwood R....................................Illinois.
Gilpin, Louis P...................................Colorado.
Gilmartin, Bdward T................................Indiana.
Geoghegan, Walter M................................New	York.
Golden, Wm. B.................................Pennsylvania.
Galen, Albert J.........................................Montana.
Gebhart, Lloyd L...........................................Ohio.
Gilmore, J. Bdward.....................................Illinois.
Gerardi, Louis H.......................................Missouri.
Gerardi, Joseph........................................Missouri.
Girsch, Charles N.......................................Illinois.	.
Gimble, Bugene..........................................Indiana.
Goldsmith, Herbert S...................................Illinois.
Gainer, Bdward J...................................... Illinois.
Garza, Rudalfa M.........................................Mexico.
Gonzalez, Seraphine N...................................Florida.
Garrity, McNellis P....................................Illinois.
Garrity, Leo J.........................................Illinois.
Giffin, Harry..........................................Nebraska.
Goff, Dorsett J.........................................Indiana.
Giffin, Robert C.......................................Nebraska.
Gilbert, Bdward J......................................Illinois.
Grady, William P.......................................Illinois.
Gallagher, Hugh S..........................................Ohio.
Hay, Bdward F.........................................Mexico.
Hesse, Brancis H........................................Iowa.
Hagerty, Jeremiah T..................................Indiana.
Hayes, John B...........................................Ohio.
Healy, Leo R........................................Illinois.
Hoban, Thomas M......................................Indiana.
Hanhauser, George J.............................Pennsylvania.
Hanhauser, Andrew J.............................Pennsylvania.
94
University of Notre Dame.
Harrison, J. Francis................................. Wyoming.
Haley, Joseph. M......................................Indiana.
Heirholzer, Edward J.....................................Ohio.
Hennebry, Michael F..................................Illinois.
Howell, John E...................................Pennsylvania.
Hindel, William.......................................Indiana.
Hengen, Wm. C.........................................Indiana.
Hesse, John C............................................Iowa.
Henry, Harvey E.........................................Texas.
Hinde, John R........................................Illinois.
Hermann, Wm.	A..................................Indiana.
Hawkins, Burchard G...................................Indiana.
Herron, Edward D..................................  Tennessee.
Hagerty, Wm. J........................................Indiana.
Hake, Edward A.......................................Michigan.
Hake, Louis F........................................Michigan.
Hayes, Arthur T..........................................Ohio.
Healv, Waldo W.......................................Illinois.
V J
Hoban, Maurice J......................................Indiana.
Howard, G-eorge A.....................................Indiana.
Hanley, Joseph P......................................Indiana.
Hunt, Montane V.......................................Indiana.
Hart, Law'rence A.....................................Indiana.
Hubbard, Lee G.......................................Illinois.
Hammer, Louis........................................Illinois.
Hall, Wallace W......................................Illinois.
Hess, Benjamin J.....................................Illinois.
Hess, Roy P..........................................Illinois.
Hess, Francis F .....................................Illinois.
Heiser, Leo J.........................................Indiana.
Haydon, James R..........................................Ohio.
Hennessy, John J......................................Indiana.
Hollander, George A....................................  Ohio.
Iwaszewski, Boniface J.................................Alaska.
Johnson, John G.......................................Georgia.
Jelonak, Arthur M....................................Illinois.
Jonquet, Jeremiah E...................................Indiana.
Jonquet, Maurice A...............................?.....Indiana.
Jones, Vitus G.......................................Michigan.
Jones, Rufus P.......................................Michigan.
Jameson, William................................    .Illinois.
Kegler, Wm. C...........................................Iowa.
Kelly, John J...................................Pennsylvania.
Kelly, Edward H.................................Pennsylvania.
Kaul, Frank A...................................Pennsylvania.
University of Notre Dame.
95
Kaul, Isidore.................................Pennsylvania.
King, Thomas W......................................Kansas.
Konzon, John J..........................................Indiana.
Kerwin, Thomas H......................................Minnesota.
Kidder, Thomas C.......................................Illinois.
Kearney, Peter B...............................................Illinois.
Keeffe, George H...........................................  California.
Kay, Fred......................................................Illinois.
Kuntz, Peter M.................................................Illinois.
Kuntz, John J............................................Illinois.
Kuntz, Charles B..........................................Indiana.
Klein, Alfred A...........................................Indiana.
Kasper, Adam J...................................................Illinois.
Kasper, George W.................................................Illinois.
Kasper, Fred J...................................................Illinois.
Kirk, Milton A...................................................Illinois.
Koehler, John B • • ■
Krug, George A... .
Kune, Major.........
Kopf, George M...
Kelly, Teo J........
Kasper, Robert A..
Kelly, Charles......
Kelly, James J....
Kachur, Albert....
Kelleher, Joseph P
...Illinois.
.Ohio.
.Illinois.
....... Illinois.
...Kansas.
• .....Illinois.
...Illinois.
......Indiana.
......Indiana.
Massachusetts.
Bantry, Jessie W..
Landa, Louis O.. .
Lindau, Bdward..
Lillis, Benjamin F
Landers, John D..
Lovett, William P
............Illinois.
Peru, South America.
............Illinois.
............Missouri.
...........Wisconsin.
............Illinois.
Leach/ George W...................*......................Indiana.
Long, Albert V.........................................  Indiana.
Langley, Chas. D.......................................     Illinois.
Lichtenwalter, Arthur B...............................Illinois.
Lowery, Thomas A
Land, William B...
Leonard, Joseph B
Loomis, Albert B •
Lehman, Arden V.
.............................Michigan,
o
..............................Illinois.
.............................. Pennsylvania.
...................................Illinois.
....................................Indiana.
Lovell, Willard T............................  Montana.
Lawton, Jasper H........ .. .'................. .Texas.
Lindsey, James M................................  Iowa.
Loshbough, Walter............................. Indiana.
96
University of Notre Dame.
Lyons, Brancis H.......................................Ohio.
Lynch, Robert B....................................Illinois.
Long, Bdward T......................................Indiana.
Magruder, Albert S. J..............................Kentucky.
Miller, Ryell T.....................................Indiana.
Marr, Wm. Walter...................................Illinois.
Murphy, Bimer J....................................... Iowa.
Miller, John W.........................................Ohio.
Murphy, John B...................................Washington.
Mott, John G.....................................California.
Marmon, Jos. A.........................................Ohio.
Mulberger, Arthur.................................Wisconsin.
Maguire, John D....................................Kentucky.
Mingey, Bdward J...............................Pennsylvania.
Mattingly, Herbert H...................................Ohio.
Medley, Thomas A...................................Kentucky.
Moran, Bdward P........................................Iowa.
Miller, Henry A....................................Illinois.
Miller, Henry A.....................................Indiana.
Mathewson, Henry W................................Wisconsin.
Murphy, John C.....................................Michigan.
Monahan, Richard C.....................................Iowa.
Monahan, Bart L........................................Iowa.
Maurus, Bmil A.....................................Illinois.
Murray, Clarence B.................................Illinois.
Meyers, John R.....................................Illinois.
Menig, Brancis J...................................Illinois.
Mueller, Henry W.......................................Iowa.
Morehouse, J. Rollo................................Illinois.
Moorhead, Herbert J.................................Indiana.
Meagher, John M..................................  Kentucky.
Moss, ClaudeS.......................................Indiana.
Mohn, Adolph........................................Indiana.
Monahan, William P.................................Illinois.
Murray, Roy A......................................Illinois.
Morris, William T...............................West	Virginia.
Monarch, Martin V..................................Kentucky.
Merz, Arthur W.................................Pennsylvania.
Massey, Wynter C...................................Michigan.
Meagher, Louis.....................................Kentucky.
Mulcare, Thomas B..................................Missouri.
Mooney, Brancis........................................Ohio.
Morehouse, Jay B.................................  Illinois.
Mulcare, Joseph B................................. Missouri.
Martin, Stanley J................................  Illinois.
University or Notre Dame.
97
Maher, W. H. Nelson............................  .Illinois.
Moxley, George T................................. Illinois.
Manion, John P..................................  Illinois.
Marshall, Charles S..............................  Montana.
Manion, Edward L................................. Illinois.
Marr, George J....................................Colorado.
Marr, William J...................................Colorado.
Moynihan, Patrick B................................Indiana.
McKee, John E.....................................Kentucky.
McManus, Francis P...........................Massachusetts.
McDonough, Wm. C...................................   Iowa.
McGinnis, James H............................Massachusetts.
McCarty, William J. T.............................Illinois.
McCarrick, George P...............................Virginia.
McHugh, Orvin J....................................  .Iowa.
McPhee, Charles D.................................Colorado.
McKenzie, Edward..................................Kentucky.
McDonald, Stewart.................................Illinois.
McCormack, Michael J.............................Tennessee.
McGuire, Robert E.................................Illinois.
McNamara, John A.............................Massachusetts.
McNamara, George F...........................Massachusetts.
McElroy, Edward J.................................Illinois.
McKinney, Francis E...................................Ohio.
McNichols, William J..............................Illinois.
McNichols, Francis J..............................Illinois.
McCorry, Henry W..................................Tennessee
McMaster, Harry C............................  .Washington.
McIntyre, Robert F...............................Minnesota.
McBride, Paul H...................................Illinois.
McBride, Douis W..................................Illinois.
McBride, John D..............................I.......Illinois.
McMillan, Arthur W....................................Iowa.
McDaniel, Frederick...............................Illinois.
McCarthy, Thomas E................................Illinois.
McEUigott, John E...............................   New	York.
McIntyre, John E....................................Canada.
McKeon, Fred T.............................   .Connecticut.
Ney, Michael J...........................................Iowa.
Niezer, Charles M.....................................Indiana.
Nevius, George W.....................................Illinois.
Naughton, John J.-...........?.................*.......Illinois.
Neeley, Hervey P......................................Illinois
Noonan, Thomas E.....................................Illinois.
Naughton, Joseph B...................................New	York.
University or Notre Dame.
98
Naughton, David A................•..............••••.. Illinois.
Naughton, Thomas M..................................Illinois.
Newell, Albert..................................Pennsylvania.
Neville, Maurice A......................................Ohio.
Niedbalski, Stanislaus R.............................Indiana.
Nieuwland, Julius A..................................Indiana.
O’Malley, Francis J.............................Pennsylvania.
O’Brien, William W..................................Illinois.
O’Brien, Thomas H...............................Pennsylvania.
O’Brien, James V................................Pennsylvania.
O’Malley, Raymond.......................................Iowa.
Oldshue, Louis L................................Pennsylvania.
O’Brien, Francis................................    .Indiana.
O’Malley, James B...................................Missouri.
O ’ Laughlin, Joseph................................Illinois.
O’Connor, John J..................................  .Indiana.
O’Connor, Bdward J.................................. Indiana.
Oberly, Amos B.......................................Indiana.
Oswald, Michael M....................................Indiana.
Oswald, Matthias.................•...................Indiana.
Palmer, Ralph L......................................Arizona.
Pulskamp, George F..................................... Ohio.
Prichard, Armstead M............................West Virginia.
Plunkett, Fredrick A..............................  Michigan.
Pendleton, Alfred J..................................   Ohio.
Page, William D.....................................Michigan.
Pulford, Cecil H....................................Illinois.
Powell, Ralph B.........................................Ohio.
Pietrzykowski, Alexander................................Ohio.
Putman, Richard S...................................Kentucky.
Patman, Joseph W....................................Kentucky.
Piquette, Charles J.................................Michigan.
Pulskamp, Bdward H.....................................Ohio.
Phelps, James O........................................Iowa.
Phillips, Arthur B.................................Kentucky.
Pim, F. Howard.....................................Missouri.
Paras, Charles.......................................Mexico.
Pollitz, Henry...................................  Illinois.
Pollitz, William...................................Illinois.
Plunkett, William J................................Michigan.
Phillips, Arthur J...................................  Ohio.
Polk, James K.....................................Tennessee.
Paul, Clement C.....................................Indiana.
Pyle, Joseph........................................Indiana.
University or Notre Dame.
99
Patee, Dester........................................Illinois.
Powers, James I......................................Illinois.
Parnell, Lawrence.....................................Indiana.
Powers, David F..........................................Ohio.
Padden, Dominic J....................................Illinois.
Quandt, Otto E...................................   Wisconsin.
Quinn, James B.......................................Illinois.
Quertinmont, George.................................  Indiana.
Quertinmont, Edgar....................................Indiana.
Quinlan, John........................................Illinois.
Reardon, Patrick E..................................New York.
Rosenthal, Jacob.....................................Michigan.
Ragan, Paul J............................................Ohio.
Reilly, Thos. B.....................................New York.
Rasche, Harry A...................... :..............Maryland.
Regan, Edgar J.....................................California.
Regan, Paul J.......................................California.
Ryan, William J.....................................Wisconsin.
Ryan, Arthur J .....................................Wisconsin.
Reuss, Charles J......................................Indiana.
Reinhard, Edward L.......................................Ohio.
Ryan, Thomas F.......................................Missouri.
Roper, Harry D........................................Indiana.
Roper, Leonard G......................................Indiana.
Rowan, Joseph J..........................................Iowa.
Regan, Alfred T....................................California.
Rauch, Edward J.......................................Indiana.
Ryan, James W........................................Illinois.
Rasche, Leo J........................................Maryland.
Rasche, Dennis R....................................Maryland.
Raczynski, Joseph....................................Illinois.
Ritter, Paul...............................'..........Indiana.
Roy, Joseph J........................................ Indiana.
Rees, Harry.........................................Illinois.
Sullivan, Jos. V....................................Illinois.
Slevin, Richard S...................................Illinois.
Shannon, John G.....................................Missouri.
Stace, Arthur W.....................................Michigan.
Steele, Sherman.........................................Ohio.
Sanders, James J....................................Illinois.
San Roman, Joseph......................................Texas.
Sammon, Andrew.....................................Minnesota.
Smith, Francis T....................................Michigan.
Schermerhorn, Clarence V............................Michigan.
Strauss, Ned H......................................... Ohio.
IOO
University of Notre Dame
Speake, Harold B.......................................Indiana.
Steiner, Thomas A.....................................Michigan.
Spalding, Samuel J..................................  Kentucky.
Spalding, Richard S....................................Georgia.
Sheehan, William F....................................Michigan.
Scott, Francis D.......................................Alabama.
Schultz, Stephen I....................................Illinois.
Stuhlfauth, George...................................Wisconsin.
Smoger, Francis A......................................Indiana.
Spurgeon, Blmer.......................................Illinois.
Shillington, John H...................................Illinois.
Shipp, Bdward C......................................New York.
Shiels, Joseph P......................................Illinois.
Smith, Floyd L............................................Ohio.
Stearns, Henry C......................................Illinois.
Scott, Howard H.........................................  Ohio.
Schoenbein, Albert J...................................Indiana.
Summers, Francis J...................................  Indiana.
Shillington, Charles J..............................  Illinois.
Sheekey, Joseph J......................................Indiana.
Scherrer, J. Garfield................................ Illinois.
Scherrer, William W.................................  Illinois.
Spillard, Arthur D....................................Illinois.
Szybowicz, Leonard................................ .... Indiana.
Schaack, Charles W....................................Illinois.
Stare, Francis G......................................Illinois.
Sanford, Benjamin C...................................Missouri.
Saul, Toward P.........................................Indiana.
Schaffhauser, Oscar P.................................Illinois.
Stayart, Brwin L......................................Illinois.
Sexton, Thomas D......................................Illinois.
Swan, Bdmund F.........................................Indiana.
Spillard, Daniel B................................... Illinois.
Sontag, Henry........................................ Illinois.
Sauter, John H.....................................   Illinois.
Sullivan, John J..................................... Illinois.
Singler, Rudolph G...................................  Indiana.
Schumacher, Matthias A.................................Indiana.
Stemmle, Joseph J.........................................Ohio.
Szalewski, Miecyslaus T................................Indiana.
Tabor, Walter O ......................................Michigan.
Tong, Oliver W.........................................Indiana.
Taylor, Henry B.......................................Illinois.
Tracy, Hayden K...........................................Iowa.
Tuhey, Carl............................................Indiana.
University of Notre Dame.
ioi
Tuttle, Ransom B.....................................Indiana.
Thiele, John M.......................................Indiana.
Thacker, Fred W.........................................Ohio.
Talbot, Joseph B.....................................Indiana.
Thanis, John D..................................North Dakota.
Tescher, Franklin G..................................Indiana.
Taylor, Francis C...................................Illinois.
Tuohy, Joseph J.....................................Illinois.
Terhune, Borin G....................................Illinois.
Thurin, George..........................................Ohio.
Trahey, James J......................................Indiana.
Van Sant, Ralph N...................................Illinois.
Van Sant, Deport R..................................Illinois.
Van Dyke, George F..................................Michigan.
Van Dyke, James A...................................Michigan.
Van Hessche, Deo.....................................Indiana.
Verment, Austin J.......................................Ohio.
Weaver, W. Burnett......................................Ohio.
Wilson, Horace A...................................Minnesota.
Wurzer, F. Henry....................................Michigan.
Walsh, William A..................................New York.
Wallace, Tillman A.................................  Indiana.
Wheeler, Ducian C.......................................Iowa.
Wilson, George......................................Illinois.
Wigg, Mayes G.......................................Illinois.
Ward, Walter M......................................Illinois.
Wagner, Francis H....................................Indiana.
Wensinger, Francis J..................................Kansas.
Wade, Bari H............................................Ohio.
Wilson, Rufa D.......................................Indiana.
Wurzer, Douis C.....................................Michigan.
Walsh, John.......................................  Illinois.
Watterson, Theodore V.................................. Ohio.
Wimberg, John G......................................Indiana.
Weitzel, Robert B...............................”	'' Kentucky.
Weitzel, Harry W....................................Kentucky.
Wilson, Ralph M................................ Pennsylvania.
Ward, Francis R....................................Minnesota.
Wells, Charles D....................................Illinois.
Wuller, Charles J...............................Pennsylvania.
Welker, Vincent B.......................................Ohio.
Webb, James B........................................Indiana.
Weadock, George T...................................Michigan.
Weidmann, Fritz M.......................................Ohio.
102
University of Notre Dame.
Weidmann, George S.....................................Ohio.
Waite, Frank W....................................Louisiana.
Weidner, Ladislaus C...............................Michigan.
Welsh, Francis.......................................Illi nois.
Wilde, George A.....................................Indiana.
Weber, Lawrence K......................................Ohio.
Wolf, Arthur........................................Indiana.
Weisbecker, John G..................................Indiana.
Weis, Irwin L......................................Illinois.
Young, William J...................................Illinois.
Zaehnle, Fdward L...................................Indiana.
University or Notre Dame.
} os
Associated Alumni
OFFICERS.
Rev. Nathan J. Mooney, ’78, President,
Mark M. Foote, ’73, 1 st Vice-President.
John G. Ewing, ’77, 2d Vice-President.
William Hoynes, ’77, Treasurer.
Rev. N. J. Stoefel, C. S. C., ’76, Secretary.
William T. Baud, ’77, Historian.
George E. Clark, ’83, Orator.
John P. Eauth, ’68, Alternate.
m	Eouis S. Hayes, ’74, Poet.
Rev. T. O’Sullivan,’58, Alternate.
104
University of Notre Dame.
College Societies.
RELIGIOUS.
Sorin and Brownson Halls.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart
of Mary.
This pious Association is affiliated to the Archconfraternity of
the Sacred and Immaculate Heart of Mary, established in the
Church of Our Cady of Victories, in Paris. Its primary object is
to pray for the conversion of sinners and persons in error. It
aims at the mutual edification and personal sanctification of all its
members by regular weekly religious exercises, monthly com-
munions, and other religious practices. The Archconfraternity
is the oldest society in the University, and recruits its members
from amongst the Catholic students of Brownson and Sorin Halls.
It was canonically established at Notre Dame by the Very Rev.
Father Sorin, in 1845, and'bids fair to be in the future, as it has
been in the past, for the students of Notre Dame, a source of
many blessings from the hand of their Patroness, the Immaculate
Mother of God.
Owing to the greatly increased membership, the associates are
divided into four branches.
GENERAL OFFICERS.
Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Hon. Director.
Rev. Janies J. French, C. S. C., Spiritual Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C.,	1
Rev. James A. Burns, C. S. C.,	.
Bev. T. H. Corbett, C. S. C„
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C.,
Bro. Basil, C. S. C., Organist.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Choir Director.
University of Notre Dame.
105
Branch No. i.
Branch No. 3.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
Wm. C. Kegler, President.
Julius Arce, Vice-President.
Eugene Delaney, Treasurer.
Wm. J. McGinnis, Secretary.
F. Henry Wurzer, Standard Bearer.
Branch No. 2.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
Edward Hierliolzer, President.
Alplionsus Ball, Vice-President.
Peter Pollen, Secretary.
Louis E. Brinker, Treasurer.
Francis Confer, Standard Bearer.
Rev. J. M. Kirsch, C. S. C., Director.
John Thiele, President.
Eugene Campbell, Vice-President.
Judge W. Blackman, Treasurer.
Francis Smith, Secretary.
Pedro Armijo, Standard Bearer.
Branch No. 4.
Rev. Jas. A. Burns, C. S. C., Director
James D. Barry, President.
Jesse W. Lantry, Vice-President.
Thomas B. Reilly, Secretary.
John W. Miller, Treasurer.
Michael J. Costello, Standard Bearer.
Garroll Hall.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart
of Mary.
The Carroll Hall Archconfraternity has the same aims and
object as that of Sorin and Brownson Halls. It recruits its mem-
bers from amongst the Catholic students of Carroll Hall.
GENERAL OFFICERS.
Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Hon. Director.
Rev. J. Kirsch, C. S. C.,	)
Rev. W. Moloney, C. S. C., ^Promoters.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., j
Bro. Basil, C. S. C., Organist.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Choir Director.
Branch No. i.
Branch No. 2.
Rev. Jas. J. French, C. S. C., Director. Rev. T. H. Corbett, C. S. C., Director,
Francis B. Cornell, President.
John Fennessy, Vice-President.
Thomas Lowery, Secretary.
Joseph Sheils, Treasurer.
Thomas D. Burns, Standard Bearer.
Peter M. Kuntz, President.
Francis X. Druiding, Vice-President.
Edward A. Hake, Secretary.
Alexis Coquillard, Treasurer.
John Walsh, Standard Bearer.
Branch No. 3.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C., I Directors
Bro. Alphonsus, C. S. C., J -uuectors-
Jacob Reinhard, President.
William J. Ryan, Vice-President.
William W. Scherrer, Secretary.
Joseph J. Sheekey, Treasurer.
Francis O’Brien, Standard Bearer.
University of Notre Dame.
106
St. Edward’s Hall.
Society of the Moly Ghildhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood, of
which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity to
children throughout the world to contribute their share towards
the redemption of pagan children from the darkness of heathen-
ism. The monthly contributions are small, but the aggregate is
considerable, while- thousands of children are by this means
trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Director.
Robert F. McIntyre, President.
Philander J. Fitzgerald, Vice -President.	*
Noel E. Freeman, Treasurer.	.
George T. Moxley, Secretary.
Teo J. Kelly, Censor.
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded September 29, 1874, by Very Rev.
B. Sorin, Superior General, C. S. C. It is composed of pupils
of the Minim Department, and has for its object the practice of
devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit of
piety among its members, the supplying of the church with the
servers required at Mass, Vespers, and other Church offices. In
1875, Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association many
special Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX of happy memory.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,
Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C.,
Hon. Directors.
)
First Term.
Second Term.
Rev. T. Corbett, C. S. C., Director.
Francis S. Cottin, President.
George T. Moxley, I Vice-Presidents
John Quinlan, J V Presidents.
Henry Pollitz, Treasurer.
Charles Kelly, Recording Secretary.
Jos. J. Coquillard, Cor. Secretary.
Daniel B. Spillard, First Censor.
E. Miles Flynn, Second Censor.
Wm. Finnerty, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Rev. J. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Director.
Francis S. Cottin, President.
George T. Moxley, Jvice Presents
Joseph E. Mulcare, J Vice-Presidents.
John W. Atkinson, Treasurer.
Charles Kelly, Recording Secretary.
I/. Kent Weber, Cor. Secretary.
Arthur Flynn, First Censor.
Francis D. Breslin, Second Censor.
Robt. F. McIntyre, Sergeant-at-Arms.
University on Notre Dame.
107
League of the Sacred Heart, or Apostleship
of Prayer.
This Association was organized in September, 1891, and is
affiliated to the Central Branch in New York City. As member-
ship in the Deague does not debar the students from entering the
other College Societies, the Apostleship of Prayer, thorugh its
zealous promoters, has enrolled every Catholic student at Notre
Dame. The following are the names of the
PROMOTERS.
Rev. Joseph. Kirsch, C. S. C.
Rev. James A. Burns, C. S. C.
Rev. T. H. Corbett, C. S. C.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. C.
Bro. Hilarion, C. S. C.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C.
Bro. Columba, C. S. C.
Jesse W. Dantry. .
Stephen I. Schultz.
Peter E. Follen.
William F. Sheehan.
Michael F. Hennebry.
Fred J. Kasper.
Joseph P. Sheils.
Marcus A. Devine.
Rev. James J. French, C. S. C.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C.
Rev. W. R. Connor, C. S. C.
Bro. Albeus, C. S. C.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C.
Bro. Jerome, C. S. C.
Martin J. Costello.
James Barry.
Edward J. Hierholzer.
George J. Hanhauser.
John J. Dowd.
Peter M. Kuntz.
George W. Kasper.
Aloysius J. Erhart.
Charles N. Girsch.
Total Abstinence Union.
The Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union was organized
November 8, 1882. It is affiliated to th^ State and National
Unions. It has always Received the warmest encouragement of
the faculty, whose efforts have been unceasing to increase its
membership.
OFFICERS.
Sorin and Brownson Haees.
Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C„ j s, Directors.
Rev. James Burns, C. S. C., J r
First Term.
James Barry, President.
Raymond O’Malley, Vice-Pres.
Orvine J. McHugh, Secretary.
James Bennett, Treasurer.
R. C. Monahan, Serg’t-at-Arms.
Second Term.
James Barry, President.
Raymond O’Malley, Vice-Pres.
J. Francis Corr, Secretary.
James Bennett, Treasurer.
Felix Bauwens, Serg’t-at-Arms.
io8
University of Notre Dame.
Carroee Haee.
Rev. James J. French, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. T. H. Corbett, C. S. C., President.
Francis B. Cornell, Vice-President.
John F. Fennessey, Secretary.
Joseph B. Naughton, Treasurer.
Waldo AV. Healy, Sergeant-at-Arms.
LITERARY.
St. Aloysius PhilodemiG Society.
The object of this Society, organized in 1851, (originally
under the name of the St. Aloysius Literary and Historical
Society,) is the cultivation of eloquence and the acquisition of an
accurate knowledge of History. It is essentially a literary and
debating society, and its members cannot fail to acquire a certain
facility in writing and fluency in debate.
OFFICBRS.
First Term.	Second Term.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Rev. J. AV. Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
Director.	Director.
Dr. Austin O’Malley, Literary Critic. Dr. Austin O’Malley, Literary Critic.
Daniel P. Murphy, President.	Daniel P. Murphy, President.
George F. Pulskamp, Vice-President. Arthur AV. Stace, Vice-President.
Arthur W. Stace, Rec. Secretary.
James Barrett, Cor. Secretary.
Paul J. Ragan, Treasurer.
William P. Burns, Critic.
Bimer J. Murphy, Rec. Secretary.
George F. Pulskamp, Cor. Secretary.
Paul J. Ragan, Treasurer.
Charles M. B. Bryan, Critic.
Columbian Literary and Dramatic Association.
The Columbian Society was founded March 25, 1875, for the
benefit of students in Brownson Hall. Its object is the cultiva-
tion of elocution and oratory.
First Term.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
James F. Bdwards, Promoter.
James J. French, C. S. C., President.
M. J. Hennebry, 1st Vice-Pres.
John M. Byrne, 2d Vice-Pres.
Thos. J. Finnerty, Recording Sec.
John AV. Forbing, Cor. Sec.
Leo R. Healy, Treasurer.
James J. Sanders, Critic.
Louis C. Byanson, Censor.
OFFICBRS.
Second Term.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
James F. Bdwards, Promoter.
James J. French, C. S. C., President.
Raymond O’Malley, 1st Vice-Pres.
John M. Byrne, 2d Vice-Pres.
John AV. Forbing, Recording Sec.
Andrew. Sammon, Cor. Sec.
Frmcis Harrison, Treasurer.
Thomas Finnerty, Critic.
Walter M. Geoghegan, Censor.
University on Notre Dame.
109
Gecilia Philomathean Society.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is at
the same time a Debating, Dramatic and Musical Association.
Its exercises include public readings, declamations, essays, debates,
dramatic exercises and a Moot Court. It numbers 40 members—
the elite of Carroll Hall. Many of the plays acted upon the
stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary powers of
its members, have been written expressly for them.
OFFICBRS.
Very Rev. Andrew Morrisey, C. S. C., Hon. President.
Rev J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C„ Kit critics.
Dr. Austin O Malley,	J J
Prof. N. A. Preston, Musical Director.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Promoter.
First Term.	Second Term.
Rev. Jas. J. French., C. S. C., Pres.
John F. Fennessey, 1st Vice-Pres.
Francis B. Cornell, 2d Vice-Pres.
Thos. A. Towery, Rec. Secretary.
Thomas D. Burns, Cor. Secretary.
Joseph P. Sheils, Treasurer.
John P. Flynn, Historian.
Joseph J. Tuohy, First Censor.
Francis R. Ward, Second Censor.
Jos. B. Leonard, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Rev. Jas. J. French, C. S. C., Pres.
Thos. A. Lowery, 1st Vice-Pres.
Francis B. Cornell, 2d Vice-Pres.
Thomas D. Burns, Rec. Secretary.
George C. Burke, Cor. Secretary.
John F. Fennessey, Treasurer.
Albert J. Schoenbein, Historian.
Joseph B. Naughton, First Censor.
Robert F. Franey, Second Censor.
Joseph P. Shiels, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Stanislaus Philopatrian Society.
This Society is composed of the younger pupils of Carroll
Hall. It was founded April 5, 1875, and has for its object the
study of Elocution, Debate and Literature, and the cultivation of
the Dramatic Art. It is one of the most flourishing Societies of
the University.
First Term.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. D. B. Hudson, C. S. C., Critic.
Rev. W. A. Moloney, C. S. C., Pres.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Musical Dir.
Wm. P. Monahan, 1st Vice-Pres.
Charles N. Girsch, 2d Vice-Pres.
George A. Krug, Treasurer.
Bdward J. Gainer, Rec. Secretery.
Henry C. Stearns, Cor. Secretary.
Theodore Watterson, 1st Censor.
Second Term.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. D. B. Hudson, C. S. C., Critic.
Rev. W. A. Moloney, C. S. C., Pres.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Promoter.
Prof. N. A. Preston, Musical Dir.
Wm. P. Monahan, 1st Vice-Pres.
Bdward J. Gainer, 2d Vice-Pres.
George A. Krug, Treasurer.
Henry C. Stearns, Rec. Secretary.
Charles N. Girsch, Cor. Secretary.
James B. O’Malley, 1st Censor.
IIO
University of Notre Dame.
Charles J. Shillington, 2d Censor.
Peter M. Kuntz, Serg’t-at-Arms.
Charles Langley, Historian.
Vincent Welker, Librarian.
John W. Kuntz, Marshal.
Vincent Welker, 2d Censor.
Chas. J. Shillington, Serg’t-at-Arms
Peter M. Kuntz, Historian.
John W. Kuntz, Librarian.
John Koehler, Marshal.
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, organized by the Rev. Thomas K.
Walsh, C. S. C., on November 25, 1877, for the pupils of St.
Bdward’s Hall, is the study of Blocution, and cultivation of the
Dramatic Art.
OFFICBRS.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,	1 tt	tv 4-
Very Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., fHonorary Birectois.
First Term.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Dir.
Rev. Jas. Burns, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. T. H. Corbett, C. S. C., Pres.
Francis Cottin, 1st Vice-Pres.
John Quinlan, 2d Vice-Pres.
Daniel B. Spillard, Cor. Secretary.
Leo J. Rasche, Rec. Secretary.
Robert F. McIntyre, Treasurer.
Second Term.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Dir.
Rev. Jas. Burns, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. T. H. Corbett, C. S. C., Pres.
Alfred H. Davidson, 1st Vice-Pres.
John Quinlan, 2d Vice-Pres.
Daniel B. Spillard, Cor. Secretary.
Leo J. Rasche, Rec. Secretary.
Bdwin B. Blliott, Treasurer.
University Stock Company.
The aim of this Company, which is composed of the best
dramatic talent in the University, is to present the higher forms
of the drama.
OFFICBRS.
Rev. Wm. A. Moloney, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Musical Director.
John G. Mott, Manager.
Francis W. Barton, Assistant Manager.
Joseph A. Marmon.
Arthur W. Stace.
Ulmer J. Murphy.
Charles M. B. Bryan.
William A. Fagan.
George P. McCarrick.
J. Francis Corr.
Thomas T. Cavanagh
Horace A. Wilson.
Bdward B. Brennan.
University ok Notre Dame.	hi
St. Joseph’s Literary Society.
OFFICERS.
First Term.
Bro. Boniface, C. S. C., Director.
James Bennett, President.
Vincent D. Dwyer, Vice-President.
Francis P. Dreher, Secretary.
J. Francis Corr, Critic.
Seraphim F. Bauwens Treasurer.
Rufinus Jones, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Joseph Sullivan, Censor.
Second Term.
Bro. Boniface, C. S. C., Director.
Maurice A. Neville, President.
J. Francis Corr, Vice-President.
Vincent D. Dwyer, Secretary.
Francis P. Dreher, Critic.
James Bennett, Treasurer.
S. F. Bauwens, Sergeant-at-Arms.
William P. Burke, Censor.
LAW.
University Moot Court.
OFFICERS.
Hon. William Hoynes, Judge.
James B. Barrett, Clerk.
Arthur H. Gaukler, Deputy Clerk.
Daniel P. Murphy, Prosecuting Attorney.
Joseph E. Talbot, Deputy Prosecuting Attorney.
Francis P. McManus, Referee.
James H. Brown, Sheriff.
Louis C. Wurzer, Coroner.
J. Francis Corr, Deputy Coroner.
Albert J. Galen, Reporter.
Court of Chancery.
OFFICERS.
Hon. William Hoynes, Chancellor.
Louis C. Wurzer, Clerk.
Edward J. Mingey, Deputy Clerk.
John H. Gallagher, Master in Chancery.
Albert S. J. Magruder, Deputy Sheriff.
Joseph Corby, Reporter.
Edward J. Hierholzer, Reporter.
United States District Court.
OFFICERS.
Hon. William Hoynes, Judge.
Albert J. Galen, Clerk.
S. Joseph Brucker, Deputy Clerk.
Francis P. McManus, U. S. District Attorney.
Clarence Schermerhorn, Ass’t U. S. Dis. Attorney.
John H. Gallagher, U. S. Marshall.
William A. Walsh, Ass’t U. S. Marshall.
John J. Kelly, Reporter.
112
University or Notre Dame.
Justice’s Gourt.
OFFICERS.
Michael F. Hennebry, Justice.	James B. Quinn, Clerk.
Alfred T. Regan, Constable.
The Law Debating Society.
OFFICERS.
First Term.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., Dir.
Col. Wm. Hoynes, President.
John H. Gallagher, ist Vice-Pres.
Albert J. Galen, 2d Vice-Pres.
James B. Barrett, Rec. Secretary.
Michael F. Hennebry, Cor. Secretary.
James H. Brown, Treasurer.
Francis P. McManus, Critic.
Francis J. Confer, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Second Term.
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., Dir.
Col. Wm. Hoynes, President.
Daniel P. Murphy, ist Vice-Pres.
Albert J. Galen, 2d Vice-Pres.
James B. Barrett, Rec. Secretary.
Douis C. Wurzer, Cor. Secretary.
Michael F. Hennebry, Treasurer.
Francis P. McManus, Critic.
James H. Brown, Sergeant-at-Arms.
MUSICAL.
Ghoir.
Proe. Newton A. Preston, Director.
Bro. Basie, C. S. C., Organist.
Adolph C. Fera.
Chas. D. McPhee.
Joseph A. Marmon.
James V. O’Brien.
Jolin G. Mott.
Wm. C. Kegler.
Thos. T. Steiner.
Dacian C. Wheeler.
MEMBERS.
First Tenors.
Jesse W. Dantry.
Second Tenors.
T. J. Finnerty.
First Bass.
S. F. Bauwens.
Second Bass.
John O’H. Dove.
John V. Ducey.
John G. Shannon.
Francis W. Barton.
Francis F. Dukette.
Horace A. Wilson.
Elmer J. Murphy.
John W. Forbing.
Douis E. Brinker.
University ok Notre Dame.
University Orchestra.
Proe. Newton A. Preston, Director.
MEMBERS.
Francis W. Barton,
Joseph A. Rowan,
Michael J. McCormack,
f First Violin.
Geo. J. Hanhauser, J
George Heinrich, Viola.
Jolin W. Forking, Clarinet.
Bdward J. Rauch, Flute.
Alphonsus J. Ball, j
H. H. Mattingly, |
Andrew Sammon, I
A. Pietryzkowski. J
Second^Violin.
Joseph A. Mannon, Cornet.
Thomas H. O’Brien, Trombone.
Bro. Leopold, C. S. C., Cello.
Francis J. Harrison, Clarinet.
Thomas T. Steiner, Flute.
William C. Kegler, Bass.
Charles D. McPhee, Drums.
James V. O’Brien, Cornet.
Francis F. Dukette, Bass.
Louis B. Brinker, Piano.
Adam J. Kasper, Traps.
Mandolin Orchestra.
MBMBBRS.
Prop. Newton A. Preston, Director.
Francis W. Barton.
Joseph J. Tuohy.
Thomas W. King.
Harvey B. Henry.
Benjamin C. Sanford.
Mayes G- Wigg.
John M. Meagher.
Bdward L. Reinhard.
Francis X. Ackermann.
John R. Meyers.
MANDOLINS.
Herbert H. Mattingly.
Francis Wagner.
Henry B. Taylor.
Albert B. Loomis.
Francis G. Stare.
Bdward P. Moran.
Ned H. Strauss.
Francis Powers.
GUITARS.
Francis Hesse.
Thomas B. Cullen.
Alfred J. Pendleton.
Claude L. Blanchard.
Andrew F. Fehr.
Arthur T. Hayes.
Arthur F. Chase.
Arthur H. Gaukler.
Richard S. Slevin.
Bdward J. McBlroy.
Ralph Palmer.
Jerome J. Green.
violins.
Michael J. McCormack ^ge H^nhauter. John AV. Forbing.
Thomas B. Reilly, Banjo.
Charles McPhee, Traps and Metalaphone.
William C. Kegler, Bass Viol.
Bdward J. Rauch, 1 K1 t
Francis A. Steiner, j
University Quartettes.
Proe. Newton A. Preston, Director.
vocal.
Adolph C. Fera, First Tenor.	Francis W. Barton, Second Tenor.
Horace A. Wilson, First Bass. Wm. C. Kegler, Second Bass.
Francis IV. Barton.
mandolin.
Herbert H. Mattingly.
Joseph J. Tuohy.
Alfred J. Pendleton.

114	University of Notre Dame.
violin.
Michael J. McCormack. jof^h J^^	George Hanhauser.
BRASS.
Joseph A. Marmon, ist Cornet.	William C. Kegler, Alto.
James V. O’Brien, 2d Cornet.	Francis W. Barton, Baritone. •
The University Gornet Band.
MEMBERS.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
Joseph A. Marmon, Solo Bb Cornet.
Thomas A. Steiner, Solo Bb Cornet.
H. Rasche, 2d Bb Cornet.
Edward J. Ranch, Piccolo.
Frank J. Harrison, 1st Bb Clarinet.
Elmer J. Murphy, Solo Baritone.
Thomas H. O’Brien, Slide Trombone.
Charles D. McPhee, ist Alto. .
Amos E. Oberly, 2d Alto.	*
Edward F. Hay, 4th Alto.
Frank T. Smith, Solo Tenor.
Joseph Davilla, 3d Tenor.
Jose San Roman, Eb Bass.
James V. O’Brien, Solo Bb Cornet.
Orvine J. McHugh, ist Bb Cornet.
Oliver W. Tong, 3d Bb Cornet.
John W. Forbing, Solo Bb Clarinet,
Francis W. Barton, Euphonium.
Janies H. Kivlan, Slide Trombone.
Francis B. Cornell, Solo Alto.
Joseph J. Rowan, 2d Alto.
Louis O. Landa, 3d Alto.
Charles J. Piquette, Trombone.
Herbert H. Mattingly, 2d Tenor.
Lucian C. Wheeler, Bass Drum.
Jocob Rosenthal, Snare Drum.
Jesse W. Lantry, Bb Bass.
William C. Kegler, Tuba.
Thomas J. Finnerty, Snare Drum.
ATHLETIG.
The Lemonier Boat Giub.
OFFICERS.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., President and Treasurer.
Louis E. Brinker, Commodore.
} Vice-Commodores.
Stewart McDonald, Recording Secretary.
James H. Browne, Corresponding Secretary.
CREWS—Fall of ’95.
EVANOALINE.	MINNEHAHA.
No. t. Charles D. McPhee.
“ 2. Edgar Crilly.
“ 3. Jenaro Davila.
“ 4. John F. Mullen, Captain.
“ 5. Alex. R. Carney.
“ 6. Louis E. Brinker, Stroke.
Thos. J. Finnerty, Coxswain.
No. 1. Ralph L. Palmer, Captain.
“ 2. John C. Hesse.
“ 3. Frank J. Wensinger.
“ 4. Thomas W. King.
“ 5. Frank H. Hesse.
“ 6. Arthur F. Chase, Stroke.
H. W. Mathewson, Coxswain.
University of Notre Dame.
115
	YOSEMITE.	montmnrency.	
No. 1. “ 2. “ 3- “ 4.	Edward P. Moran, Captain. Oliver W. Tong. Robert L. Fox. Stewart McDonald, Stroke. Edgar Crilly, Coxswain.	No. 1. “ 2. “ 3- “ 4-	Howard Pim. Robert E. Barry. George Stuhlfauth. E. Gilmartin, Capt. and Stroke. W. Burnett Weaver, Coxswain.
	CREWS—Spring of ’96.		
	SILVER JUBILEE.		GOLDEN JUBILEE.
No. 1. “ 2. “ 3- “ 4- “ 5- “ 6.	Lucian C. Wheeler. John F. Mullen, Captain. Jenaro Davila. Edward T. Gilmartin. Charles M. Neizer. Arthur F. Chase, Stroke. Geo. P. McCarrick, Coxswain.	No. 1. “ 2. “ 3- “ 4- “ 5- “ 6.	Edgar Crilly. Thomas W. King. Charles P. Flannigfan. James H. Crane. Francis H. Hesse. L. E. Brinker, Capt. and Stroke. T. J. Finnerty, Coxswain.
	EVANGELINE.	’		MINNEHAHA.
No. 1. “ 2. “ 3- “ 4- “ 5- •“ 6.	Oliver W. Tong. Robert L. Barry. John V. Ducey. Geo. Stuhlfauth, Capt. John E. Howell. Henry E. Taylor, Stroke. Chas. D. McPhee, Coxswain.	No. 1. “ 2. “ 3- “ 4- “ 5- “ 6.	Robert L. Fox. Bernard G. Fitzgerald. Leo R. Healy. Edward P. Moran. Edward G. Bowlin. S. McDonald, Capt. and Stroke. Louis H. Gerardi, Coxswain.
Hoynes L>i£ht Guards.
OFFICERS.
William Hoynes, Colonel.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Chaplain.
W. Burnett Weaver, Acting Major.
Company A.
W. Burnett Weaver, Captain.
E.	T. Gilmartin, First Lieutenant.
F.	Howard Pim, Second Lieutenant.
George W. Nevius, First Sergeant.
Harry A. Miller, Second Sergeant.
Arthur J. Phillips, Third Sergeant.
Company B.
Jereome J. Green, Captain.
Joseph V. Sullivan, First Lieutenant.
Albert E. Loomis, Second Lieutenant.
Henry C. Stearns, First Sergeant.
John M. Meagher, Second Sergeant.
Adam B. Kasper, Third Sergeant.
Vincent B. Welker, Fourth Sergeant.
Albert V. Long, Fifth Sergeant.
Chas. J. Shillington, First Corporal.
William P. Lovett, Second Corporal.
Ernest L. Dugas, Third Corporal.
H. J. Moorehead, Fourth Corporal.
Charles D. Wells, Fifth Corporal.
116
University on Notre Dame,
The Sorin Gadets.
Albert 1$. Loomis, Captain.
Henry Pollitz, First Lieutenant,
George T. Moxley, Second Lieutenant.
Frank D. Breslin, First Sergeant. Arthur A. Allyn, First Corporal,
Thomas D. Sexton, Second Sergeant. Leo J. Kelly, Second Corporal.
Willie Pollitz, Third Sergeant. Emile Ernst, Third Corporal.
Ivan R. Bergeron, Fourth Sergeant. Francis W. Waite, Fourth Corporal,
John J. Fitzgerald, Fifth Sergeant. George S. Weidman, Fifth Corporal,
University Athletic Association.
Sorin and Brownson Hades.
FIRST TERM.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. Jas. Burns, C. S. C., £
Rev. W. Maloney, C.S.C.,
Directors.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C., Promoter.
Col. William Hoynes, President.
Francis E. Eyanson, Vice-President.
Horace A. Wilson, Rec. Secretary.
Joseph A. Mannon, Cor. Secretary.
Norwood R. Gibson, Treasurer.
Rev. W. Maloney, C.S.C.,
Bro. Hugh, C, S. C.,
Rev. Jas. Burns, C. S. C.,
’• Directors.
Promoter.
Col. William Hoynes, President.
Albert J. Galen, Vice-President.
Louis L. Oldshue, Field Reporter.
F. P. McManus, Mgr. Foot Ball Team.
John H. Gallagher,	1
Robert P. Brown,	I	Executive
John G. Shannon,	j	Committee.
Albert J. Galen,	J
Eugene A. Delaney, Rec. Secretary.
William A, Walsh, Cor. Secretary.
Alex R. Carney, Treasurer.
John W. Miller, Field Reporter.
D. P. Murphy, Mgr. Base Ball Team,
Raymond G, O’Malley,
James D. Barry,
John H. Gallagher,
Bdward H. Kelly,
Bxecutive
Committee.
FIRST term.
Carroee Haee.
SECOND TERM.
Thomas A. Lowery, President.
William P. Monahan, Vice-President.
John F. Fennessy, Secretary.
Francis B. Cornell, Treasurer.
Thomas D. Burns, Reporter.
W. P. Monahan, Capt. Foot Ball Team
F. B. Cornell, Capt. Base Ball Team.
Thomas A. Lowery,
William P. Monahan,
Francis B. Cornell,
John F. Fennessey,
Joseph B. Naughton,
Thomas A. Lowery, President.
Arthur D. Spillard, Vice-President.
Francis B. Cornell, Secretary.
William A. Hermann, Treasurer.
J. B. Naughton, Capt, Foot Ball Team.
. A, D. Spillard, Capt. Base Ball Team.
Executive Committee.
University Gyclin^ Giubs,
OFFICERS.
St. Lawrence Cede.	St. Aebeus Ceub.
BROWNSON HAEE.	CARROEE HAEE,
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director. Arthur D. Spillard, President.
Chester H. Atherton, President. Francis R. Ward, Vice-President.
Charles D. McPhee, Vice-President. Henry C. Stearns, Rec. Secretary.
University of Notre Dame.
117
Edgar Crilly, Captain.	Peter M. Kuntz, Cor. Secretary.
Charles T. Cullen, 1st Lieutenant.	Charles J. Reuss, Captain.
Andrew Sammon, ad Lieutenant.	Martin V. Monarch, 1st Lieutenant.
Claude L. Blanchard, Rec. Secretary. Aloysius J. Erhart, 2d Lieutenant.
Bart L. Monahan, Cor. Secretary. Joseph B. Naughton, Treasurer.
John Corby, Treasurer.	John J. Kuntz, Color Bearer.
Herbert H. Mattingly, Color Bearer.
The Tennis Glub.
OFFICERS.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C., Promoter.
Francis J. F. Confer, President.
Walter B. Golden, Vice-President.
C. V. Schermerhorn Sec. and Treas.
Lloyd Gebhart, Bouncer.
The Lacross Glub.
OFFICERS.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C., Manager.
Andrew Sammon, Captain.
Bernard A. Daly, Secretary.
John J. Dowd, Treasurer.
Hand Ball Association,
Brownson Hare.
Bro. Hilarion, C. S. C., Director.
Norwood R. Gibson, President.
Michael T. Daly, Secretary.
Andrew Hanhauser, Treasurer.
Arthur F. Chase, Marshal.
Carroee Haee.
Francis B. Cornell, President.
John F. Fennessey, Vice-President.
Arthur D. Spillard, Secretary.
Joseph B. Naughton, Treasurer.
Francis J. McNichols, Scorer.
Wm. P. Monahan, Umpire.
n8
University of Notre Dame.
Conferring of Degrees.
Thb Degree of Doctor of Iaws was conferred on
Rev. Maurice J. Dorney, Chicago, Ill.
Hon. Thomas A. Moran, Chicago, Ill.
Thb Degree of Master of Arts in course was conferred on
Joseph Just, Luxemburg, Germany.
Thb Degree of Mastbr of Arts in honorem was conferred on
Janies M. Dinnmi, Kort Wayne, Indiana.
Joseph Walter Wilstach, Lafayette, Indiana.
Thb Degree of Mastbr of Science in honorem was conferred on
John A. Gibbons, Streator, Illinois.
Thb Decree of Bachelor of Arts in course was conferred on
Richard Spalding Slevin, Peoria, Illinois.
John G. Shannon, Kansas City, Missouri.
Thomas A. Crumley, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Thb Dbgrbb of Bachelor of Letters in course was conferred on
Arthur W. Stace, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
John Griffin Mott, Los Angeles, California.
George F. Pulskamp, Celina, Ohio.
Francis B. Byanson, Columbia City, Indiana.
William P. Burns, Michigan City, Indiana.
Thb Dbgrbb of Civil Bngineer in course was conferred on
John B. Murphy, Vancouver-Barracks, Washington.
William Walter Marr, Chicago, Illinois.
Thb Dbgrbb of Bachelor of Scibncb was conferred on
Joseph A. McGuire, Chicago, Illinois.
✓
Thb Dbgrbb of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
ferred on
Francis W. Barton, Danville, Illinois.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
Ryell T. Miller, South Bend, Indiana.
Louis Bastrup, Chicago, Illinois.
University or Notre Dame.
119
The Degree oe Bachelor of Taws was conferred on
Daniel P. Murphy, Lewisburgh, Pennsylvania.
John H. Gallagher, Chicago, Illinois.
Janies B. Barrett, Los Angeles, California.
Brands P. McManus, Charlestown, Mass.
Albert Galen, Helena, Montana.
Louis C. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan.
Michael F. Hennebry, Ritchie, Illinois.
Commercial Diplomas.
Alphonsus J. Ball, Plymouth, Indiana.
Arthur J. Farley, Utica, New York.
George H. Keefe, San Francisco, California.
Roy A. Murray, Chicago, Illinois.
Janies B. O’Malley, Albany, Missouri.
Rudolph G. Singler, South Bend, Indiana.
Bdward P. Moran, Fort Madison, Iowa.
Janies I. Powers, Galens, Illinois.
Albert J. Schoenbein, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Fdward J. Hierholzer, Celina, Ohio.
Charles T. Cullen, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Certificates of Telegraphy were awarded to
John F. Howell, Pennsylvania.
Alexander Pietrzykowski, Ohio.
120
University or Notre Dame.
Special Prize Medals.
The Mason Medal for the student of Carroll Hall having the best
record for the scholastic year was awarded to
BDWARD C. BROWN,
Sheldon, Iowa.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory was awarded to
JOHN GRIFFIN MOTT,
Bos Angeles, Cal.
The Bllsworth C. Hughes Medal for the best record in Mathe-
matics for the scholastic year was awarded to
JOHN B. MURPHY,
Vancouver Barricks, Washington.
The Grand Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson
Hall, First Course, was awarded to
WIUBIAM C. KBGBBR,
Bellevue, Iowa,
The Sorin Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, First Course, was awarded to
FRANCIS B. CORNBBB,
New York City.
Senior Glass.
Classical Course.
The Quan Gold Medal was awarded to
Richard S. Slevin, Peoria, Ill.
Commercial Course.
The Gold Medal for proficiency in the Commercial Course
was awarded to
Albert J. Schoenbein, Ft. Wayne, Ind.
University of Notre Dame.
121
Special Courses.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall was awarded to
George P. McCarrick, Norfolk, Va.
The Elocution Medal in Carroll Hall was awarded to
William W. Scherrer, East St. Louis, Ill.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall was
awarded to
Edward J. Hierholzer, Celina, Ohio.
St. Edward’s Hall.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
William J. Finnerty.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Edmund F. Swan.
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Thomas D. Sexton.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded
Robert F. McIntyre.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded to
Edwin E. Elliott.
The Gold Medal for Violin was awarded to
Leo J. Rasche.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Francis D. Breslin.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Francis S. Cottin.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded to
Noel L. Freeman.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Vocal Music was waarded to
Jay E. Morehouse.
The Silver Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Joseph A. Coquillard.
University of Notre Dame.
First Honor Awards
First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brownson Halls wlio<
have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for scholarship and deport-
ment during the scholastic year. The first honor awarded for the first year
takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work
is a gold medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.
First Honor Gold Medals
Sorin Hall.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Martin J. Costello,.
Chicago, Illinois; Jesse W. Gantry, Chatsworth, Illinois.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Charles M. B. Bryan,
Memphis, Tenn.; Thomas B. Reilly, Sing Sing, N. Y.; Paul J.
Ragan, Maumee, Ohio; Arthur W. Stace, Grand Rapids, Mich.
Brownson Hall.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Julius A. Arce,
Arequipa, Peru, South America; Bugene A. Delaney, Bykens,
Penn.; William F. Sheehan, Hancock, Mich.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to Bdward J. Mingey,
Philadelphia, Penn.; Thomas A. Steiner, Monroe, Mich.; John
M. Thiele, Monterey, Ind.; F. Henry Wurzer, Detroit, Mich.
Deportment Pri^e Medals.
Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll Hall and
St. Bdward’s Hall who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose
deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.
Garroll Hall.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to B. G. J. Gainer,
W. T. Morris, W, W. Scherrer. Renewals—William P. Mona-
han, Thomas A. Bowery.
University of Notre Dame.	* i23
St. Edward’s Hall.
Gold medals for Deportment were' awarded to George T. Mox-
ley, Jay E. Morehouse, Beo J. Kelly, Daniel B. Spillard, Charles
Kelly, Henry Sontag.
Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll Hall and
St. Bdward’s Hall, who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose
deportment has given general satisfaction.
Garroll Hall.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to George W.
Beach and Thomas B. Noonan.
St. Edward’s Hall.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Arthur Allyn,
Robert J. Catchpole, Robert A. Kasper, Drank W. Waite, Francis
Welch, Maurice A. Jonquet.
Deportment Certificates.
Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and St. Bdward’s
Halls who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms,
and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.
Garroll Hall.
Certificates were awarded to B. Brown, B- Beardslee, W. Barry,
J. Barry, B. Cave, P. Curtis, B. Druiding, B. Darst, W. Dinnen,
R. Garza, B. Hake, B- Hake, F. Kasper, A. Klein, J. Koehler,
Wm. Band, C. Moss. J. Meagher, A. Merz, J. O’Malley, W.
Page, F. O’Brien. W. Ryan, F. Summers, A. Schoenbein, J.
Walsh, R. Weitzel, H: Weitzel, R. Wilson, V. Welker.
St. Edward’S Hall.
Certificates were awarded to John Quinlan, Harry Gifiin. Wil-
liam Maher, Percy Cotter, Charles Bode, Charles Marshall, Gro-
ver Davis, Thomas Fetter, Arther Phillips, Ivan Bergeron, Wil-
liam Plunkett, James Van Dyke, George Van Dyke, Ralph Van
Sant, Report Van Sant, Joseph Pyle, William Bullen, Janies
Polk, Miles E. Flynn, Arthur Flynn, Maurice Brissenden, George
Kopf, Buell Davis, Dennis Rasche, Bawrence Hart, George Quer-
timont, Graham Dugas, Francis Bode, Paul McBride.
124	*
University or Notre Dame.
Military Commissions.
Commissions and Warrants were awarded to Captains W. Bur-
nett Weaver, Miamisburg, Ohio; Albert B. Loomis, Chicago,
Illinois.
First Lieutenants Joseph V. Sullivan, Chicago, Ill.; Henry
Pollitz. Chicago, Ill.; Bdward T. Gilmartin, Ft. Wayne. Indiana.
Second Lieutenants F. Howard Pim, St. Louis, Mo.; George
T. Moxley, Chicago, Ill.
Sergeants George W. Nevins, Chicago, Ill.; Henry C. Stearns,
Chicago, Ill.; John M. Meagher, Jr., Frankfort, Ky.; Adam J.
Kasper, Jr., Chicago, Ill.; Vincent B. Welker, Gambier, Ohio;
Albert V. Long, Lacrosse, Indiana.
Corporals Charles J., Shillington, Chicago, Ill.; William P.
Lovett, Chicago, Ill.; Brnest L. Dugas, Chicago, Ill.; Herbert J.
Moorhead, Terre Haute, Ind ; Charles D. Wells, Jr., Chicago,
Illinois.
University on Notre Dame.
125
Premium Gist.
Bennett, H. M.
Burns, William P.
Barry, James D.
Bryan, Charles B.
Barton, Francis W.
Costello, Martin J.
Eyanson, F. E.
Fagan, William A.
Gaukler, Arthur
Lantry, Jesse W.
Marr, William W.
Arce, Julius A.
Anders, Calvin S.
Anderson, John 0.
Armijo, Justo L-
Atherton, Chester EL
Arpin, Arthur M.
Byrne, John M.
Ball, Alphonsus J.
Browne, James EE.
Brinker, Louis E.
Browne, James AV.
Blanchard, Claude L.
Brown, E. L.
Blackman, Judge W.
Bowline, Edward G.
Berthelet, Rolette J.
Brucker, S. Joseph
Campbell, Michael R.
Campbell, Eugene
Chase, Arthur F.
Cypher, George
Corby, John
Carney, Alex. R.
Crane, James R.
Cullen, Thomas E.
Cullen, Charles T.
Confer, Francis J.
Daly Bernard A.
Delaney, Eugene A.
Ducey, John V.
Daly, Michael T.
Duperier, Alfred J.
Dukett, Francis F.
Forking, J. W.
Foulks, Charles M.
Follen, Peter E-
Sorin Hall.
Murphy, Elmer J.
Miller, John AV.
Murphy, John B.
Marmon, Joseph A.
McNamara, J. A.
McDonough, AAhn. C.
Ney,.Michael J.
Palmer, Ralph L.
Pulskamp, George F.
Reardon, P. E.
Brownson Hall.
Goeke, John M.
Gibson, Norwood R.
Gilmartin, Edward T.
Geoghegan, Walter M.
Golden, AVilliam B.
Galen, Albert J.
Gilmore, J. Edward
Gerardi, L-
EEay, Edward F.
EEesse, Francis EE.
EEayes, John E.
Healey, Leo R.
Hoban, Thomas M.
Hanhauser, George J.
Hanhauser, A. J.
Harrison, J. Francis
Haley, Joseph M.
Hierholzer, Edward J.
Hennebry, Michael F.
Howell, John E.
Hindel, AVilliam
Hesse, Frank
Hesse, John C.
Henry, Harvey E.
Hinde, John R.
Johnson, John G.
Kegler, William C
Kelly, Edward H.
Kidder, Thomas
King, Thomas W.
Kerwin, Thomas H.
Kearney, Peter E.
Mingey, Edward J.
Mattingly, Herbert H.
Medley, Thomas A.
Moran, Edward P.
Rosenthal, Jacob
Ragan, Paul
Reillv, Thomas B.
Sullivan, Joseph AL
Slevin, Richard S.
Shannon, J. G.
Sanders, J. J.
Stace, Arthur AV.
Steele, Sherman
AVeaver, AV. B.
AVilson, H. A.
Menig, FroncisJ.
McPhee, Charles D.
McDonald, Stewart
McCormack, M. J.
McGuire, Robert E.
Niezer, Charles M.
Naughton, John J.
Neeley, Hervey P.
O’Mallev, Frank
O’Brien, James V.
O’Brien, AV. AV.
O’Brien, Thomas H.
O’Malley, Raymond
Powell, Ralph E.
Pietrzykowski, Alex.
Putnam, Joseph W.
Piquette, Charles J.
Pulskamp, E. H.
Phelps, James O.
Paras, Charles
Rowan, Joseph T.
Ryan, J. W.
Rauch, Edward J.
Sail Roman, Joseph
Sammon, Andrew
Smith, Francis T.
Strauss, Ned H.
Speake, Harold E.
Steiner, Thomas T.
Spalding, Richard S.
Sheehan, AVilliam F.
Scott. Francis D.
Stuhlfuth, George
Smoger, Francis A.
Tong, Oliver AV.
Taylor, Henry E.
126
University of Notre Dame.
Fitzpatrick, William W.
Flannigan, Charles P.
Fox, Robert D.
Fehr, Andrew F.
Farrell, Nicholas J.
Fera, Adolph C.
Farley, Arthur J.
Ferguson, Clate W.
Abrahams, George
Armijo, Pedro J.
Beardslee, Louis J.
Brown, Bdward B.
Berry, William A.
Bern*, James B.
Burns, Thomas D.
Begley, John B.
Bernardin, Alfred L.
Curry, Joseph
Cottin, Daniel S.
Cornell, Francis B.
Crowdus, Charles H.
Cave, Bdward W.
Cunea, John B.
Coquillard, Alexis
Curtis, Patrick A.
Crepeau, Fred
Cowie, Gordon R.
Darst, Bdward J.
Devine, Marcus A.
Dugas, Brnest L.
Dinnen, William F.
Druiding, Francis X.
Donovan, John C.
Brhart, Aloysius J.
Franey, Robert F.
Fuhrer, Mansfred
Flynn, John P.
Fennessey, John J.
Fisher, Joseph B.
Frank, LeRoy H.
Fox, Alvin J.
Foster, Harry P.
Girardi, Joseph
Girsch, Charles N.
Gimble, Bugene
Goldsmith, Herbert S.
Gainer, Bdward J.
Garza, Rudalfa M.
Hermann William A.
Herron, Bdward D.
Hagerty, William J.
Hake, Louis F.
Hayes, Arthur T.
Hake, Bdward A.
Miller, Henry A.
Monahan, R. C.
Monahan, B. L.
Mauras, Bmil A.
Meyers, John R.
Mueller, Henry W.
Mullen, John
McGinnis James H.
McCarty, William J. T.
Garroll Hall.
Healy, Waldo W.
Hoban, Maurice J.
Hunt, Montane V.
Jelonac, Arthur M.
Keefe, George H.
Kuntz, Peter M,
Kuntz, Charles B.
Kuntz, John J.
Klein, Alfred A.
Kasper, Adam J.
Kasper, George W.
Kasper, Fred J.
. Kirk, Milton A.
Koehler, John B.
Landers, John D.
Lovett, William P.
Leach, George W.
Long, Albert V.
Lowery, Thomas A.
Land, William B.
Loomis, Albert B.
Moorhead, Herbert J.
Meagher, John M.
Moss, Claude S.
Mohn, Adolph
Mohahan, William P.
Muery, Roy A.
Morris, William T.
Monarch, Martin V.
Merz, Arthur W.
Massey, Wynter C.
Meagher, Louis
McNamara, George F.
McBlroy, Bdward J.
McKinney, Francis B.
McNichols, William J.
McNichols, Francis J.
McCorry, H. W'
Mulcare, Thomas
Mooney, Francis
Noonan, Thomas B.
Naughton, Joseph B.
Naughton. David A.
Naughton, Thomas, M.
Newell, Albert
O’Brien, Francis
Tuhey, Carl
Thiele, John M.
Thacker, Fred W.
Wheeler, Lucian C.
Wigg. Mayes G.
Wagner, F. H.
Wade, Bari H.
Wallace, Tillman A.
O’Malley, James B.
Plunkett, Fred A.
Padden, Dominic J.
Pendelton, A. J.
Page, William D.
Pulford, Cecil H,
Quandt, Otto B.
Rasche, H. A.
Regan, Paul J.
Ryan, William J.
Ryan, Arthur J.
Reuss, Charles J.
Reinhardt, B. L.
Shipp, B. C.
Shiels, J. P.
Smith, Floyd L.
Stearns, Henry C.
Scott, Howard H.
Schoenbein, A. J.
Summers, Francis J.
Shillington, Charles J.
Sheekey, Joseph J.
Scherrer J. Garfield
Scherrer, William W.
Spillard, Arthur D.
Sanford, Benjamin
Saul, Bdward
Schaffhauser, Oscar
Szybowicz, Leonard
Schaack, Charles W.
Stare, Francis G.
Thams, John L.
Tescher, F. G.
Touhy, Joseph J.
Walsh, John
Watterson, T. V.
Wimberg, John G.
Weitzel, Harry W.
Weitzel, Harry W.
Wilson, Ralph M.
Ward, Francis R.
Wells, Charles D.
Welker, Vincent B.
Webb, James B.
Weadock, George
University of Notre Dame.
127
St. Edward’s Hall.
Allyn, Arthur
Atkinson, John AV.
Abrahams, Louis L.
Bode, Charles H.
Bode, Francis J.
Bosworth, Alvah C.
Breslin, Francis D.
Bullen, William H.
Bullene, John T.
Brissenden, Marcus O.
Brissenden, Fred A.
Bergeron, Ivan R.
Blanchfield, Walter J.
Cunnea, John
Cottin, Francis S.
Campbell, Cecil B.
Cotter, Percy V.
Catchpole, Robert J.
Coquillard, Joseph A.
Cressy, Clement G.
Casparis, Kenneth B.
Caruthers, John P.
Caruthers, Francis J.
Davis, Buell
Davis, Grover C.
Davidson, Alfred H.
Dugas, Graham
Dowling, Ralph AV.
Blliott, Bdwin B.
Brnest, Bmile
Bouwens, S. F.
Burke, AVilliam
Clifford, Jeremiah
Corr, J. Francis
Curran, Robert P.
Dwyer, Vincent D.
Dwyer, Francis
Dorian, Francis
Boerner, Andrew L,
Carroll, Patrick J.
Coyne, Claude A.
DeLorimier, Arthur G.
Dreher, Francis J.
Gallagher, Hugh S.
Heiser, Leo J.
Hennessey, John J.
Hollander, George A.
Pollitz, William
Pollitz, Henry
. Plunkett, AALlliam J.
Phillips, Arthur J.
Polk, James K.
Pyle, James
Patee, Lester
Quinlan, John
Quertimont, George
Quertimont, Bdgar
Rasche, Leo J.
Rasche, Dennis R.
Ress, Henry
Swan, Bdmund F.
Spillard, Daniel B.
Sexton, Thomas D.
Sontag, Henry
Terhune, Lorin G.
VanSant, Ralph N.
Van Sant, Leport R.
Van Dyke, James A.
Van Dyke, George F.
Weidmann, George S.
AVeidmann, Fritz M.
AVeidner, L. C.
AVaite, Frank AV.
AATelsh, Francis
AA7ilde, George A.
AVeber, Lawrence
AA7eis, Irwin L.
Hall.
McIntyre, J. B.
Neville, Maurice A.
Oberly, Amos B
Powers, James I.
Sauter, John H.
Sullivan, Joseph J.
Singler, Rudolph G.
AVolf, Arthur
Fetter, Thomas R.
Finnerty, AVm. M. J.
Fitzgerald, Philander
Flynn, Arthur
Flynn, B. Miles
Freeman, Noel L.
Goff, Dorsett J.
Giffin, Harry
Giffin, Robert C.
Hall, AVallace AV.
Hart, Lawrence A.
Hubbard, Lee G.
Jonquet, Maurice A.
Kune, Major
Kasper, Robert A.
Kelly, Leo J.
Kelly, Charles
Kopf, George M.
Lawton, Jasper H.
Morehouse, Jay B.
Mahr, AV. H. N.
Moxley, George T.
Manion, John P.
Manion, Bdward L.
Marshall, Charles S.
Mulcare, Joseph B.
McMaster, Harry C
McIntyre, Robert I
McBride, Paul H.
McBride, Lewis AV.
McBride, John L.
St. Joseph’s
Fredell, George
Fralich, Peter G.
Jones, Vitus G.
Jones, Rufus P.
Jameson, William
Kelley, James J.
Kachur, Albert
Lyons, Francis H.
McBlligott, John B-
Holy Gross Hall.
Iwaszewski, B. J.
Kelleher, Joseph P.
Long, Bdward T.
Marr, George J.
Marr, AVilliam J.
Moynihan, Patrick B.
Nieuwland, Julius, A.
O’Connor, Bdward J.
Oswald, Michael M.
Oswald, Matthias
Powers, David F.
Ritter, Paul
Schumacher, M. A.
Stemmle, Joseph J.
Szalewski, M. T.
Trahey, James J.
Verment, Austin J.
AVeisbecker, John G.
128
University of Notre Dame
Preliminary Exercises of the Fifty-Second Annual
Go m men cement.
Oratorical Gontest
Thursday, June 11th.
PROGRAMMR.
Overture—“Around the Metropolis/’	-	- Byer.
University Orchestra.
“Statescraft and Statesmanship,” - ChareES M. B. Bryan.
“Philosophy in Actual Rife,” -	- John G. Mott.
“Science and the Catholic Church,” Reward R. Brennan.
Concert Waltz—“The Sea Fairies,” -	-	- Preston.
University Mandoein Orchestra.
“Twilight and Dawn,” -	-	- Rouis C. Wurzer.
“Literature in the Formation of Character,” Arthur W. Stace.
Finale—Gallop—Idapio,	-	-	-	- Julian.
University Orchestra.
Judges:
Right Rev. Monsignor Mooney, V. G., New York City.
Col. John R. Fellows, New York City.
Rev. Maurice J. Dorney, Chicago, Ill.
University oe Notre Dame.
129
Contest in Elocution.
i
Friday, June 12th.
Carroee Hare.
Piano Solo, -	Stephan I. Schuetz.
‘‘The Benediction,’’ -	-	- Thomas A. Lowery.
“College Oil Cans,” -	-	- Francis X. Breeding.
“The Battle of Fontenoy,” - Martin V. Monarch.
“Sir Hubert’s Last Hunt,” -	- Wieeiam W. Scherrer.
9	Piano Solo, -	-	- Francis F. Burette.
Sorin and Brownson Haees.
“Beath-Bed of Benedict Arnold,”
“The Flying Machine,” -
“The Uncle,” -
“Trouble in the Amen Corner,”
‘ ‘ Clarence’s Bream, ”
“The Face Upon the Floor,” -
Charees M. Niezer.
James O. Pheeps.
Leo R. Heaey.
George P. McCarrick.
Arthur H. Gaukeer.
Edward B. Brennan.
( Very Rev. W. Corby.
Judges, s Austin O’Malley, Ph. B., LL. B.
(Rev. J. W. Clarke.
130	University or Notre Dame.
Lawn Concerts
Given by
The University Band.
Tuesday, June 10th, ’96.
PROGRAMME.
i.	“King Cotton.”
2.	“Poet and Peasant,’’
3.	“Indian War Dance,”
4.	“Jolly Fellows.”—Waltz,
5.	1 'Pompey’s Double Shuffle,’ ’
6.	“Hypatia,”
7.	“ Monana Chilian Dance, ” -
8.	‘ ‘Gold and Blue,’ ’
Sousa.
Fr. V. Stippe.
- H. Bellstedt, Jr.
- R. Vollstedt.
N. A. Preston.
J. Ord Hume.
Jean Missud.
N. A. Preston.
Sunday, June 14-th, ’96.
PROGRAMME.
PART I.
I
“King Cotton,”
Sousa.
2.
0
4-
Selection—' 'Bohemian Girl,’ ’
‘1 Andalonsian Bolero. ”
“Eaura Waltz,”
(From Millocker’s Opera,
Baeje
Bousquet.
A rr. by M. C. Mey relies
Beggar Student. ’ ’)
5. “Hypatia,”
/. Ord. Hume.
University of Notre Dame.
13
PART II.
1.	Overture—‘‘Champion,’’	-	- J. Haitmann.
2.	“Jolly Fellows.”—Waltz, -	-	- R Vollstedt.
3.	“Anvil Chorus,” -	-	-	- Verdi.
4.	“Sonnambula,” -	- -Air. by J. Ringleben.
(Selections from Bellinis’ Opera.)
5.	March—“Gold and Blue,” -	- N. A. Preston.
Wednesday, June 17th, ’96.
PROGRAMME.
1.	March—“King Cotton,” -	-	- Sousa.
2.	Overture—“Poet and Peasant,” -	- Hr. V. Suppe.
3.	“Love’s Vesper Hour,” -	- Theo. Bonheur.
4.	“Annie Laurie,” -	- '	-	- M. M. Snyder.
5.	“Hypatia,” -	-	-	- J. Ord. Hume.
■6. “Laura Waltz,” -	- Arr. by M. C. Mey relies.
7.	“Manana Chillian Dance.” -	- Jean M. Missund.
8.	“Rostus,” ----- Kerry Willis.
9. March—“Gold and Blue,” -	- N. A. Preston.
132
University or Notre Dame.
Annual Examinations.
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, June 15-17.
Board of Examiners.
{Under the supervision of Rev. President Morrissey}
Classical Course.
Rev. N. J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. S. Fitte, Rev. J. Scheier,
Rev. J. Cavanaugh, Prof. J. F. Bdwards, Prof. William Hoynes,
Prof. Austin O’Malley, Prof. B. McGriskin, Prof. J. G. Bwing,
secretary.
Scientific Course.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, presiding, Rev J. Kirsch, Rev. J. Burns,
Prof. F. X. Ackermann, Prof. J. J. Green, Mr. F. Powers, Prof.
M. J. McCue, secretary.
Law Course.
Prof. William Hoynes, presiding; Rev. J. J. French, Rev. A.
M. Kirsch, Rev. S. Fitte, Hon. T. B. Howard, Hon. B. Hubbard,
Hon. J. Gibbons, Hon. A. B- Brick, secretary; Prof. G. B.
Clarke, Prof. J. G. Bwing.
Commercial Course.
Rev. J. J. French, presiding; Rev. B. Ill, Rev. B. P. Murphy,
Bro. Philip Neri, Prof. B. J. Maurus, secretary; Mr. D. Murphy.
Preparatory Course.
(BROWNSON HAEE.)
Rev. W. Moloney, presiding; Bro. Beander, secretary; Bro.
Bmmanuel, Prof. Preston, Mr. D. V. Casey, Mr. C. P. MacHugh.
Preparatory Course.
(carroee haee.)
Rev. M. J. Regan, presiding; Rev. T. H. Corbett, secretary;
Bro. Boniface, Bro. Alexander, Bro. Hugh, Bro. Albius, Bro.
Cajetan, Bro.Alphonsus, Bro. Cyprian, Mr. J. O’N. Bove.
University of Notre Dame.
i33
Memorial Day.
May 30th, 1896.
PROGRAMME.
PART I.
Solemn High Mass, -	-	-	-	8:00 a. m.
Music—‘'Marching Through Georgia,”	University Band.
Presentation of American Blag on behalf of the Gradu-
ates of’96,	-	-	- Francis P. McManus.
Singing—“Columbia,” -	-	- Grand Chorus.
Presentation of Military Flag, - Col. William Hoynes.
Singing—“America,” -	-	- Grand Chorus.
Presentation of Gold and Blue Flags, John Grieein Mott.
Music—“Gold and Blue March.” -	Preston.
University Band.
part 11.
Grand Review of Hoynes Light Guards and Sorin Cadets,
Col. Wm. Hoynes, Commanding.
Presentation of Drill Medals:
In Company A, to -	-	- Stephan I. Shultz.
In Company B, to -	-	-	- Joseph J. Tuohy.
In Sorin Cadets, to -	-	B. Miles Flynn.
Salute.
134
University or Notre Dame.
Fifty-Second
Annual Commencement
------------OE--
The University of Notre Danie,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sunday, June 14th.
8:00 A. m.—Solemn High Mass.
Sermon by the Rev. E. B. Kilroy, D. D.5 Class of ’52.
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, June 15th-17th,
EXAMINATIONS.
Wednesday, June 17th.
8:00 A. m.—Closing Examinations.
10:00 A. m.—Regatta.
12:00 m. —Dinner.
2:30 p. m.—Calisthenic Exercises in St. Edward’s Gymnasium
and Field Sports on Brownson Hall Campus.
4:00 p. m.—Commencement Exercises in St. Edward’s Hall.
6:00 p. m.—Supper.
6:30 p. m.—Band Concert.
University of Notre Dame.	135
Wednesday, 7:30 P. M.
Commencement Exercises in Washington Hall.
Overture—“Robin Hood,”	-	-	- Wiegand
University Orchestra.
Chorus—“Invitation,”	-	-	-	- Flotow
University Chorus.
Bachelors’ Discourses.
‘ ‘ THE FO UN DA TIONS OF COLLEGIA TE ED UCA TION ’r
I	.—Oration,	- “Literature in the Formation of Character,”
MR. ARTHUR W. STAGE. (Michigan.)
Flute Solo—Polka Brilliante Klegante—opus 43,	- Popp
Mr. Edward J. Rauch. Accompanist, Mr. J. Vic O’Brien.
II	.—Oration,	-	-	- “The Dignity of History, ”
MR. JOHN G. SHANNON. (Missouri.)
Concert Waltz—“The Sea Fairies,” -	- Preston
University Mandolin Orchestra.
III	.—Oration,	-	- “Philosophy in Actual Life,”
MR. JOHN GRIFFIN MOTT. (California.)
Quartette—“The Forest,”	-	-	-	- Leslie
Mr. F. Frank Jones, Mr. Frederic C. Schillo,
Mr. Francis W. Barton. Mr. William C. Kegler.
oration oe the day,
The Honorable Judge THOMAS A. MORAN,
Chicago, Illinois.
136
University or Notre Dame.
Thursday, June 18th.
8:30 ft. M.
Quartette—“Home, Sweet Home,”	- N. D. U. Quartette
Mr. B. Frank Jones. Mr. Frederic C. Schieeo.
Mr. Francis W. Barton. Mr. Wieeiam C. Kegeer.
Class Poem, -	- MR. WILLIAM P. BURNS. (Indiana.)
Valedictory, - mr. righard spalding slevin. (Illinois.)
Awarding of Honors, and Conferring of Degrees.
Finale—“ Gold and Blue March, ”	-	Preston
University Band.
the....
NOTRE DAME Up"
SCHOLASTIC,
Is the title of a neat 28-page paper, devoted to the interests of
the students, and is published at the University every week dur-
ing Term time. This journal opens a field for young writers
who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their
talents to remain inactive.
Thk Scholastic contains articles of an instructive literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry,
Notes on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notes of New Pub-
lications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, Thm Scholastic has a
■special importance for students, their parents, and all Avho have
attended classes at the University in times past, on account of
the weekly summary of events happening at Notre Dame, per-
sonal notices of former students, Rolls of Honor, Class Honors,
List of Excellence, etc., which appear in its columns every week.
Reports relative to the arrangement of classes, the promotion of
the more talented and energetic students, etc., also find a place
in this paper, and keep parents and others informed on all that
concerns their children and friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors during the coming year
to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past, and the
encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
61.50 Per Annum. Postpaid.
Address, THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
St. Mary's Academy.
One Mile West of the
University of Notre Dame.
5T. MARY’S ACAD EMA7 for young ladies, now entering upon its
forty-second year of active educational work, has earned the repu-
tation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and success-
ful institutions in the United States. The location is on the divid-
ing ridge of the St. Dawrence and Mississippi river systems, in the
highest and healthiest part of the state. The Academy buildings—large,
well ventilated and commodious, heated with steam, supplied with hot and
cold water, and with fire escapes of the latest and best kind—are beautifully
situated on an eminence overlooking the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph
River.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical education are
taught by a Faculty of competent teachers. Datin, French and German,
Plain Sewing, and every variety of Fancy Needlework are taught without
extra charge. Book-keeping in the regular course; Phonography and Type-
writing extra.
The Conservatory of Music is conducted on the plan of the best
Classical Conservatories of Europe. Three instrumental lessons, and one
in theory, weekly, are included in the regular tuition; extra practice pro
rata.
The Art Department is modelled after the best Art Schools of Europe.
Preparatory and Minim Departments.—Pupils who need primary
training, and those of tender age, are here carefully prepared for the Acade-
mic course.
For catalogue containing full information, address
Directress of the Academy,
St. Mary’s Academy,
Notre Dame P. O., Ind.
INDEX.
The University of Notre Dame...........................Frontispiece
Board of Trustees................................................ 3
Officers of the University....................................... 4
Assistant Prefects of Discipline................................. 4
The Faculty....................................................   5
Assistant Professors and Instructors...........................   7
Teachers in Preparatory Departments............................   8
Department of Fine Arts.......................................... 9
Notre; Dame University.........................................  10
Historical—Material Equipment of the University—Surroundings
—Accessibility—Discipline—General Remarks.
Expenses........................................................ 20
Graduation Fee.................................................. 21
Programme or Studies :
Preparatory Department................................... 22-
Collegiate Department.—Classical Course................... 28
Bnglish Course............................................ 33
General Science Course.................................... 38
School of Civil Engineering.............................. 43,
Course in Electrical Engineering.......................... 51
Course in Mechanical Engineering.......................... 56
Course in Biological Science.............................. 58
Daw Department—Faculty.................................... 63
Commercial Course......................................... 72
Modern Languages......................................... ,75
Misceeeaneous................................................... 77
Physical and Natural Sciences—Institute of Technology—Lan-
guages—Telegraphy and Type-writing—Phonography or Short-
hand— Elocution — Lecture and Concert Course — Drawing —
Music—Reading Rooms—The Lemonnier Library.
Sorin Hall...................................................... 83
Minim Department...............................................  85
Discipline—Societies—General Remarks.
Expenses—Minim Department....................................... 88
Catalogue of Students........................................... 89
Associated Alumni............................................... 103
College Societies:
Religious................................................. 104
Literary.................................................. 108
Law........................................................ in
Musical................................................... 112
Athletics................................................. 114
Military.................................................. 115
Conferring of Degrees........................................... 118
Commercial Diplomas............................................. 119
Special Prize Medals...........................................  120
Honor Awards.................................................... 122
First Honor Gold Medals—Deportment Prize Medals—Deport-
ment Certificates—Military Commissions.
Premium List.................................................... 125
PRELIMINARY AND ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT BXERCISES:
Oratorical Contest........................................ 128
Contest in Elocution...................................... 129
Lawn Concerts, University Band............................ 130
Annual Bxaminations....................................... 132
Memorial Day Bxercises.................................... 133
Fifty-Second Annual Commencement Bxercises................ 134