ANNUAL CATALOGUE
----AF TMF«---
UNIVERSITY
OF
— NOTRE DAME.
Notre Dame. Indiana.
1896-1897.
"Miitn
mil
mi
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME IND.
FIFTY-THIRD
Annual Catalogue
OF THE
University of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
1S96-1897.
The University Press:
NOTRE DAME, IND.
1897.
Board of Trustees.
Very Rev. WILLIAM CORBY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C,
Secretary.
Bro. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
4
University of Notre Dame.
Officers of the University.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. TAMES J. FRENCH, C. S C.,
Vice-President and Director of Studies.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Bro. JOSEPH, C. S. C.,
Assistant Secretary.
Assistant Prefects of Discipline.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C. Bro. HILARION, C. S C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C. Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C. Bro. JEROME, C. S. C.
Bro. GUY, C. S. C.
University of Notre Dame.
5
The Faculty.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Religion.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. DENIS J. HAGERTY, C. S. C,
Ecclesiastical History.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature and German.
Rev. JOSEPH KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Natural Sciences and German.
Rev. EDWARD P. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Rhetoric.
6
University of Notre Dame.
Ret. JAMES A. BURNS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Librarian.
9
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. B.,
Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
History, and Lecturer on Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S, C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
AUSTIN O’MALLEY, A. M, M. D, PH. D., LL. D,
English Literature.
LAURENCE McGRISKIN, A. M.,
Greek and Mathematics.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E,
Electrical Engineering and Experimental Physics.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E, E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
CHARLES VENEZIANI, A. M., PH. D.,
Romance Languages.
GEORGE E. CLARKE, A. M, LL. M.,
Elocution and Phonography.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D ,
(Resident Physician.) Anatomy and Physiology.
University of Notre Dame.
7
Assistant Professors and Instructors.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping and Commercial Law.
Bro. BONIFACE, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship and German.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
CHARLES PERCY MacHUGH,
Latin and English.
FRANK POWERS, B. S.,
Assistant and Demonstrator in Biology.
FREDERICK J. SCHILLO, B. S.,
English.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, A. B.,
Latin.
8
University of Notre Dame.
JOHN B. MURPHY, C. E.,
Mathematics.
ARTHUR W. STACE, Litt. B,
English Composition.
M. JAMES H. NEY,
Telegraphy.
william McDonough,
Typewriting.
Teachers in Preparatory Department.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.
Bro. JEROME, C. S. C.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
University of Notre Dame.	9
Department of Fine Arts.
MUSIC.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director of Musical Department.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C,
Instrumental Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
NEWTON A. PRESTON, Mus. Bach.,
Vocal Music, Director of Band and Orchestras.
DRAWING.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Linear, Architectural and Mechanical Drawing
ATHLETICS.
PAUL BEYER, Gymnastics.
FRANCIS EARLE HERING,
Instructor in Athletics.
10
University of Notre Dame.
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
HISTORICAL.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the year
1842, by Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the late Superior Gen-
eral of the Congregation of the Holy Cross; in 1844 it was
chartered by the General Assembly of the State of Indiana.
It grew rapidly from a small frontiei' school to a fairly equipped
college, and at length assumed the proportions of a University.
On April 23, 1879, five of the college buildings were destroyed
by fire. The loss included the Library, Museums, and scientific
apparatus. The progress of the University, however, was
arrested but for a short time. In September, 1879, the college
had been partially rebuilt, and the beginning of the present
extended group of buildings had been made. The new order
of things fulfilled a hope rather than a promise of the old, and
the Notre Dame of to-day, with its equipment, its standard of
studies, and its increasing influence, more than realizes the
most sanguine expectations even of those who had the firmest
belief in the possibilities of higher education in the West. A
brief review seems not inappropriate.
Material Equipment of the University.
Main Building.
This is five stories high; its dimensions are 320 x 155 feet.
The distance from the ground to the electric light just above
the statue surmounting the dome is two hundred and seven
feet. This building contains museums, libraries, art galleries,
class rooms, study halls, dormitories, lavatories, trunk rooms,
armories, etc. The refectories are richly ornamented with
mural paintings, representing many of the most celebrated
ecclesiastical and secular buildings in the world, and beauti-
University of Notre Dame.
ii
fully illustrating the progress of architecture. The lavatories
are supplied with hot and cold water, and have all the customary
accommodations. The armories contain about 150 stands of
arms, with bayonets, accoutrements, etc. These arms were
procured from the State, for the service of members of the
military organizations. The reception parlors, and offices of
the President, Secretaries, and Prefect of Discipline are on the
main floor, as also the study halls, several of the class-rooms,
the telegraph office, and the students’ office. The floor is of tile
and the corridor is lined with a series of superb mural paintings
(the work of the distinguished Roman artist, Signor Luigi Gre-
gori), which illustrates the leading events in the life of Columbus,
or, more particularly, such of them as history associates with
the discovery of America. Portraits of distinguished ecclesi-
astics, including almost all the Catholic Bishops in the United
States, those living as well as those who have gone to their
reward, line the walls of the corridors on the floor above, which
is appropriately called the “Bishops’ Gallery.” The society
rooms are on the same floor, as are also some of the class-rooms;
they are tastefully ornamented with paintings, mural decora-
tions, and busts of noted personages. Two large dormitories
are likewise on this floor. The Lemonnier Library and Memo-
rial Hall are on the third floor. Two large dormitories, that
correspond in size and appearance to those below, occupy the
rest of the floor. The music rooms of the vocal classes and the
Department of Drawing take up the greater part of the fourth
floor. The Lemonnier Library contains 55,000 volumes, besides
miscellaneous objects of interest gathered from all parts of the
United States and many other countries. Three wide oaken
stair-cases afford communication between the different floors,
from the first story to the top of the building; and these, sup-
plemented by exits to the roofs of verandas and porticos, with
ample means of descending safely to the ground, remove all
danger of personal injury in case of fire. But the fullest pre-
cautions have been taken to guard against that peril. With a
watchman constantly on duty, water on each floor and hose at
hand, there is absolutely no danger of fire. The halls through-
out the building are wide, high and spacious. The many angles
12
University of Notre Dame.
which distinguish the building, were planned and constructed
in accordance with the prevailing style of architecture at Notre
Dame, which is known as modern Gothic. These angles serve
to give strength and solidity to the entire building, rendering
it secure against the fury of the wind and storm, not to mention
the incidental advantages of good light and perfect ventilation
which they afford. Just east of the Main Building is
Music Hall.
This is 170 feet in length by 100 in width, and over 100 in
height. The first floor is divided into recreation and reading
rooms, the north end being for the students of Carroll Hall and
the south for the students of Brownson Hall. These rooms are
supplied with newspapers, periodicals, games of all kinds,
billiard-tables, etc. The dressing rooms of the Bicycle Club
and of the Athletic Association are also on this floor. The
second and third floors at the south end are divided into music
rooms, and instrumental music is there taught. The Exhibition
Hall occupies the remainder of the building. In it are given
the more formal lectures, as well as concerts and dramatic
entertainments. Fully furnished with the scenes, accessories
and decorations appropriate to such uses and capable of accom-
modating 1,200 persons, it ranks among the largest and most
attractive college halls in the country.
Science Hall.
This imposing edifice is situated a few steps south of Music
Hall. The dimensions are 104 x 131 feet, and the height is three
stories, or 75 feet. It is divided into two departments, and sup-
plied with all the agencies requisite to facilitate the acquisition
of a complete knowledge of the sciences. The laboratories,
lecture-rooms, museums, biological department, engine-rooms,
etc., are admirably arranged for convenience of studies. The
Hall is fully equipped with all necessary chemicals, prepara-
tions, specimens, charts, tools, instruments and the innumerable
accessories of a great school of science. The Brownson Hall
campus or play-ground, a level track containing about ten
acres, lies southeast of it. South of it is the
University of Notre Dame.	13
Institute of Technology,
a large and commodious building devoted to the use of the stu-
dents of civil, mechanical and electrical engineering. It is fully
equipped with all the appliances for wood and metal working,
and is supplied with the most approved forms of forges and
cupolas for blacksmithing and foundry work. The rooms for
mechanical drawing and the laboratories for special experi-
mental work in engineering were especially designed for the
purpose for which they are used, and are complete in all their
appointments. Directly south is the
Astronomical Observatory,
which is conveniently situated for astronomical observations
and the work of class instruction. The observatory consists of
a main part with a revolving dome, an east wing, or transit
room, and a north wing, or computing room, which contains the
smaller instruments and the works of reference for the use of
observers. In the main part is mounted the equatorial telescope,
to which students of astronomy have access. East of Music
Hall, for the accommodation of the students desiring to take
physical exercise when the weather is unfavorable for out-door
sports, stands the Students, play Ha„
which measures 160 feet in length and 45 in width, and is two
stories in height. Jhe north half is for the use of the students
of Carroll Hall, whose campus surrounds it, while the south
half is set apart for the students of Brownson Hall. A thor-
oughly equipped gymnasium has recently been fitted up on the
second floor of the Institute of Technology. Just north of the
Play Hall and Music Hall is St. Edward's Park, and fronting
this, facing south, is
St. Edward’s Hall,
a building four stories high, 155 feet in length by 150 in width.
This is for the exclusive use of pupils under thirteen years of
age. It is entirely separate from the University, though under
the same general management. The building is new and lacks
none of the appointments suggested by experience as useful or
desirable. It is divided into study-halls, class-rooms, dormito-
ries, etc. The recreation hall is just east of it, while farther
14	University of Notre Dame.
east and north lies the play-ground. The pupils are under the
immediate direction of competent and experienced teachers—
Sisters of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
The Infirmary
adjoins St. Edward's Hall on the west. In dimensions it is
200x45 and three stories high. The General Office occu-
pies a portion of the first floor. The rooms on the floor above
are kept in readiness for the reception of students who at any
time are prevented through illness from attending classes and
discharging their customary duties. The regular physician of
the University and the Sisters in charge minister to the sick in
all cases.	The
stands a little west and south of the main building. It is gener-
ally regarded as one of the most beautifully decorated churches
in the country. In size it is 275 x 120 feet, and the distance from
the ground to the apex of the roof is about 125 feet. It is richly
ornamented with paintings and statuary, and hours may profit-
ably be given to the examination and study of these and the
objects of interest and beauty in which it abounds. In its tower
is the largest bell in the United States. Besides there are thirty-
two smaller bells in the tower. These bells vary in size and
constitute the noted “ Chimes of Notre Dame.” South and west
of the church stands
Sorin Hall.
The style of the building is what is currently called mixed
Gothic and Roman. The height from ground to apex is about
70 feet. It has a measurement of 144 feet along its front, or
from north to south, while its depth, or from east to west, it will
measure, when completed, 112 feet. The basement, about two-
thirds of which is above the ground level, has a height of 9 feet
from floor to ceiling Above the basement the structure rises
to the height of three stories. The distance from the first floor
to the ceiling is 15 feet; from the second floor to the ceiling, 13
feet; and from the third floor to the ceiling, about 12 feet. Two
wide and massive stair-cases afford ample means of passing
readily from floor to floor. The basement is subdivided into
lavatories, bath-rooms, boiler and engine rooms, etc. The build-
University of Notre Dame.
15
ing is heated thoroughly by an automatic self-feeding appara-
tus placed in the basement. On the first floor are two or more
of the principal offices, the chapel, the law lecture court, moot-
court room, law library, society rooms, etc. A large room in
the north part of the building serves as a chapel, while the law
rooms are south of the entrance, with an east and south expo-
sure. The second and third floors are almost exclusively
appropriated for students’ rooms. The building is commodious,
thoroughly ventilated, and the rooms and corridors are well
lighted and comfortably heated at all times.
A regular established United States post-office is situated on
the University grounds, a short distance from the main building.
It is particularly intended for the accommodation of the Uni-
versity and St. Mary’s Academy, and all mail matter intended
for the students of either institution should be addressed to
Notre Dame, Indiana. There are too many buildings at Notre
Dame to receive detailed notice; indeed, so numerous are they,
that, if brought together, they would cover at least eight or ten
acres of ground. Surroundings.
The University is situated about a mile and a half north of
the flourishing city of South Bend, Ind., and about eighty miles
east of Chicago. It is surrounded by a fertile and prosperous
farming country. And yet, by reason of its proximity to South
Bend, it combines the conveniences and accommodations of the
city with the salutary isolation, wholesome climate and natural
beauties of the country. A broad avenue runs directly south
from the University for a mile or more, and on both sides it is
lined with shade trees. North and west of the University are
two beautiful lakes—St. Joseph’s and St. Mary’s. The area of
the former is but a little less than twenty-three acres. The
ground slopes picturesquely down to the lakes, and beautiful
walks along the shores almost surround them. On the higher
ground, above the walks and overlooking the lakes, are magni-
ficent groves of oak, hickory, sycamore and other varieties of
hard timber. St. Joseph’s River, swift of current and tortuous
of channel, sweeps grandly past the University grounds on the
west. The scenery along its steep and timber-lined banks is
bold, wild and romantic.
16	University of Notre Dame.
Accessibility.
Notre Dame occupies a position almost central with refer-
ence to the most important cities of the Mississippi Valley. The
railroads running directly to South Bend are the Lake Shore &
Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indi-
ana, Illinois & Iowa, and the Michigan Central. The road last
named is connected with South Bend by aGateral line which
runs south from Niles, Mich., and passes through the University
grounds. Omnibuses and other conveyances, by which visitors
can expeditiously reach Notre Dame, may be found on the
arrival of trains at the stations of the roads indicated.
Discipline.
The aim of the authorities of the University of Notre Dame
is to secure for each student that quiet and to promote that
mental concentration which are absolutely necessary to a thor-
ough college course. Although the rules made and enforced
with this intention are more stringent than is usual in Ameri-
can colleges, there is nothing required by them to which any
earnest student can reasonably object. Other than earnest stu-
dents are out of place in the University. It is supposed that
every student, by the mere act of matriculating, binds himself
to gentlemanly conduct while at Notre Dame. If it be discov-
ered that he is not worthy of a place on the list of students, the
authorities reserve to themselves the right of dropping his
name from the list.
The manner of life at Notre Dame is that of a large and well
regulated family. This necessarily involves close contact on
the part of students with one another; consequently the author-
ities are obliged, in the interest of each worthy student, to
enforce the rules governing conduct with uncompromising firm-
ness. And yet, the causes of expulsion are not more numer-
ous than in any well-organized club of gentlemen. There can,
for instance, be no mitigation of the extremest penalty for fla-
grant disobedience of aidhority, the rise of intoxicating liquors, immor-
ality, the habitual use of profane or obscene language, unauthorized
absence from the college limits, etc. In the case of suspension or
expulsion for such offenses, no fees will be returned.
University of Notre Dame.
I?
The students in the various college halls are under the same
rules of discipline. They retire not later than ten, and the
signal for rising is never given later than 6:30. Undue attention
to athletics at the expense of studies is not permitted; while
at the same time, students are advised, expected and strongly
encouraged to take part in healthy out-door sports. A limited
number of contests is permitted with athletic organizations from
the outside. The athletic societies are not permitted to take
part in games outside the college premises, and no one will be
allowed to take part in a game who is not a regularly matric-
culated student.
A competent instructor in gymnastics is retained by the
University. Special attention is given to the improvement of
the physical condition of the students; experience shows that
the course of study and the discipline at Notre Dame has not
failed to produce sane-minded and physically healthy men.
The military drill is optional, but it is strongly recommended
to promote manly deportment and erect carriage.
While persons of all religious denominations participate in the
privileges of the University, it is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine services at
stated times.
Other regulations, which time has sanctioned as salutary,
may be summarized as follows:
1. Students are required to report at the college immedi-
ately after their arrival at the station. This rule is binding not
only at the beginning of the school year, but at all other times
when leave of absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay
in the neighboring city is looked upon as a serious violation of
rule. 2. Leave of absence cannot be granted to students dicring the
term time except in cases of urgent necessity. There is no vacation
at Easter. 3. No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission of the President or Vice-President, or the
person delegated to represent them. 4. No branch of study
shall be taken up or discontinued without permission of the
Director of Studies. 5. The use of tobacco is strictly forbidden,
except to such students of Brownson or Sorin Hall as have
received from their parents written permission to use it. 6. The
18	University of Notre Dame.
use of intoxicating liquors is absolutely prohibited under all
circumstances. 7. To guard against all clandestine and im-
proper correspondence, the President reserves the right to
supervise letters to and from students. 8. Students are not
permitted to receive boxes containing other eatables than
fruit. All boxes are subject to inspection before they are
delivered to the student.
General Remarks.
A University course in education implies that the student
has had the benefit of elevating associations, as well as of care-
ful instruction. The desire of the authorities is to surround
the students with professors and companions of the highest
character, and their aim is to include no pupil on the roll of
the University who would not be received into the home of the
most scrupulous Christian parent. The University is a town in
itself, and the student runs no risk of suffering from dissipa-
tions of outside society. The environment, natural, artistic,
human, is of the most elevating character. He must work, for
there are no distractions permitted while he is at work; the
system of discipline is the result of deep consideration of the
best means of developing conscientiousness, firmness of purpose,
habits of patience and self-reliance, in a word of giving the
student the best tools for acquiring the highest success in life.
Members of the Junior and Senior classes of any of the
Collegiate Courses have rooms in Sorin Hall; other students
are assigned according to age to Brownson, Carroll or St.
Edward's Hall. Young men of 17 and upward are assigned to
Brownson Hall. Their dormitories, study-hall, refectory,
lavatory, etc., are in the east half of the main University
building. The students of Carroll Hall, whose ages range from
13 to 17, occupy the west portion of it. The pupils of St.
Edward's Hall have a building exclusively for themselves.
The different Halls to which students are thus assigned are
entirely separate from one another. Their inmates are seldom
University of Notre Dame.
19
brought together except in certain collegiate classes. The
pupils of St. Edward’s Hall have no direct intercourse with the
students of the other departments.
There are ample accommodations for seven hundred resident
students at the University. The ventilation is exceptionally
good. Scrupulous cleanliness prevails everywhere. The fare
is abundant in quantity, varied in quality, and always whole-
some. The class-rooms are large and well lighted, as are also
o	o	J
the rooms used by the literary, debating, dramatic and other
societies.
The societies devoted more particularly to the cultivation
of music and the drama have always been very popular, and
many of their members have reached a higher degree of pro-
ficiency than mere amateurs are commonly expected to attain.
This is largely due to the fact that they are aided and stimu-
lated by the sedulous co-operation and encouragement of
professors well qualified to give instruction in music and the
drama. Then, too, there are societies especially intended to
promote the interests of religion and lead to a thorough
knowledge of Christian doctrine. By means of essays and
debates, great readiness in speaking, as well as felicity in the
expression of thought, is attained by many members of these
societies.
The students of the different departments are under the
supervision of their respective prefects and professors; and
while they enjoy all the freedom compatible with the require-
ments of good order, they are firmly held to an observance of
the courtesies expected of gentlemen in their intercourse with
one another. But there is but little occasion for the exercise
of rigor in this respect, as the students come almost invariably
from homes in which they have been brought up under the
salutary influence of careful and proper training. They have
been taught to observe the manners that distinguish upright
and honorable young men; and it is an important aim of the
discipline in force at Notre Dame to make them in all respects
thorough, accomplished and carefully educated gentlemen—
gentlemen whose lives will be useful and honorable, and tend to
reflect credit upon their parents, themselves and the University.
20
University of Notre Dame.
Expenses.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance)......... $ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern Languages
included), Lodging, Washing and Mending of Linens,
per Session of nearly Ten Months.................. 300.00
Payable in Advance, as follows:
On entrance in September. .$200 00 | January 15th........$100 00
The charge of $300 covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at
$IOO per scholastic year. No portion of this later sum will be
returned wrhen students are dismissed before the close of the
year or leave for any other cause than ill health.
Students wTo enter after September 20th are charged pro
rata from the date of their entrance until July 1, 1898.
Special Studies.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular studies of the course they have entered, any of
the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per scholastic
year. The charges will be prorata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment........................$45	00
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,
Flute, Cornet, Clarionet and
Mandolin.................. 25	00
Use of each Instrument...... 5	00
Vocal Culture............... 30	00
Elocution—Special Course.... 10	00
Use of Library............... 2	00
“ Scholastic ” (the College paper) 1	50
Artistic Drawing............ 20	00
Telegraphy.................. 20	00
Typewriting — Full Course (21
lessons)..................... 5	00
Phonography................. 20	00
Practical Mechanics......... 30	00
Elementary Chemistry,—lec-
ture course .............$	2 50
Elementary Chemistry,—lab-
oratory course............ 5	00
Chemical Analysis......... 10	00
Elementary Physics — lec-
ture course............... 2	50
Physical Laboratory...... 20	00
Use of Apparatus in Miner-
alogical Laboratory...... 5	00
Use of Apparatus in Botani-
cal Laboratory............ 5	00
Use of Apparatus in Biolog-
ical Laboratory.......... 20	00
Applied Electricity....... 40	00
Special Lecture and Concert
Course.................... 2	00
Gymnastics—Full Course (20
lessons).................. 5	00
University of Notre Dame.
21
Graduation Fee.
{Payable before Comniencement.)
Classical Course, $10; Course in Science, $10; Course in
Biology, $10; Special Course in English, $10; Law Course, $10;
Civil Engineering Course, $10; Course in Mechanical Engin-
eering, $10; Course in Electrical Engineering, $10; Commer-
cial Course, $5.
Remarks.
Remittances should be made by draft, post-office money
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable; and exchange will
be charged in all cases.
Term bills and all other accounts are subject to sight draft
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Brownson, Sorin and Carroll Halls are closed during the months
of July and AzigiLst.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the Uni-
versity, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesi-
astical state can be received at special rates. Fuller informa-
tion can be obtained by addressing the President.
The year ’9 7-’98 will open on Tuesday, September 7th. *
22
University of Notre Dame.
Programme of Studies.
The year is divided into two terms. The first term begins
in September and continues until Christmas.' The second term
begins in January and ends the latter part of June. An
examination is held at the close of each term.
Preparatory Department
The studies pursued in this department are preparatory to the Classical
or English Course, or to the Courses in Science and Engineering. Students
who have completed the course receive a diploma admitting them to mem-
bership in the Freshman Class.
First Year Preparatory
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Grammar—as far as Regular Conjugations.—Ewing.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-nine lessons—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
3.	Historia Sacra.
IL—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar—to Irregular Verbs.—Harvey.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
TH.—HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY.
1.	Geography —General Geography of the World —Special Geography of
the United States, including Outline of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
2.	U. S. History—Through the Revolutionary War.-— Sadlier.
IV.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Arithmetic — to Fractions (exclusive)—Normal Union Arithmetic.—
Brooks.
University of Notre Dame.
23
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Grammar — First Session’s work reviewed — Etymology completed —
General Rules of Syntax.—Ewing.
2.	Exercises—First Part, Introduction to Latin Composition.—Harkness.
3.	Fables—New Latin Reader.—Harkness.
4.	Historia Sacra.
II	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar—Etymology completed—General Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
III	.—HISTORY AND GEOGRAPHY.
1.	U. S. History—From Revolutionary War to the present time.—Sadlier.
2.	Geography—Special Geography of Europe, Asia and Africa, including
Outline of Physical Geography.—Sadlier.
IV	.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Arithmetic—From Fractions (inclusive) to Compound Numbers (exclu-
sive)—Normal Union Arithmetic.—Erooks.
Second Year Preparatory.
First Term.
I	.—LATIN.
1.	Grammar—Etymology reviewed—General Rules of Syntax.—Harkness.
2. Exercises—Twenty-five exercises, Second Part, Introduction to Latin
Composition.—Harkness.
IL—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar — Rules of Syntax.—Harvey.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Compound Numbers to Percentage—Normal Union
Arithmetic.—Brooks.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
Students preparing for the Classical Course will in this term begin the
study of Greek ; those preparing for the Course in English, will begin the
study of German; and those preparing for the Courses in Science, will begin
24
University of Notre Dame.
the study of either French or German. The scheme of work in French and
German will be found under the Course of Modern Languages. That in
Greek is as follows :
1.	Grammar—From the beginning to the Verb. — Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Beginner’s Greek Book. — White.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Gramm ar—Syntax. —Harkness.
2.	Exercises—Second Part completed—Introduction to Latin Composition.
—Harkness.
3.	Grecian History—New Latin Reader.—Ha,rkness.
IL—ENGLISH.
1.	Grammar—Syntax completed—Analysis and General Review.—Harvey.
2.	Letter Writing.
3.	Penmanship.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Arithmetic—From Percentage to Involution—Normal Union Arithme-
tic.—Brooks.
2.	Algebra—(begun)—To Fractional Equations—School Algebra.— Went-
worth.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
Students preparing for the Classical Course will continue Greek, as follows:
1.	Grammar—Review, and to Verbs in mi.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises—Beginner’s Greek Book.— White.
3.	Jacob’s Greek Reader.—Casserty. Selections by the teacher.
4.	Gospel of St. John.—Selections by the teacher.
The students preparing for English, will continue German; those prepar-
ing for the Courses in Science will continue French or German.
Third Year Preparatory.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Cornelius Nepos.— Five Lives.
2.	Exercises—Part Third, Introduction to Latin Composition.— Harkness.
3.	Grammar-Special Study of Etymology.—Harkness.
University of Notre Dame.
25
II	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Composition—Grammar reviewed—Sentence Structure.
2.	Lectures on Hill’s Elements of Rheroric.
3.	Letter Writing—Weekly Themes.
4.	Required Readings.
III	. —MATHEMATICS.
1.	Algebra—Through Fractional Equations to Quadratics (exclusive)—
School Algebra.— Wentioorth.
2.	Geometry—First three books.— Wentworth.
IV	.—GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
For students preparing for Classical Course, Greek, as follows:
1.	Grammar—From Verbs in mi to Syntax, and Review.—Goodzein.
2.	Exercises—Twenty-five exercises, First Greek Book.—Spencer's Arnold.
3.	Anabasis—First Book.
For students in English, German; and those in the Courses in Science,
French or German.
V.—HISTORY.
Students preparing for Science or the Engineering Courses, will take—
1. Modern History—From the Invasion of the Barbarians to the End of
the Crusades.—Fredet.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Cassar—First and Second Books.
2.	Exercises—Third Part—Introduction to Latin Composition completed.
—Harkness.
3.	Grammar—Special Study of Syntax.—Harkness.
II.—ENGLISH.
1.	Composition—Sentence Structure.	.
2.	Hill’s Elements of Rhetoric.
3.	Letter Writing—Daily Themes.
4.	Required Readings.
HI.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Algebra—Radicals Reviewed — Quadratics to Logarithms (exclusive)—
College Algebra.—Wentworth.
2.	Geometry—Book IV. to Conic Sections.— Wentworth.
IV.-GREEK, FRENCH OR GERMAN.
For students preparing for Classical Course, Greek, as follows :
1.	Grammar—General Rules of Syntax.—Goodwin.
26
University of Notre Dame.
2.	Exercises — From the Twenty-fifth to the Fifty-first Exercise — First
Greek Book.—Spencer's Arnold.
3.	Anabasis—Second and Third Books.
For students in English, German ; for those in the Courses in Science,
French or German.
V.—HISTORY.
Students preparing for Science or Engineering Courses, will take—
1. Modern History—From the end of Crusades to the present day.—Fredet.
Candidates for the Freshman Class will be required to pass a strict
examination in all the studies of the three Preparatory years that may be
required for their Course, unless their proficiency is already known to the
Faculty.
Collegiate Department.
Classical Course.
Course in English.
Course in General Science.
Course in Civil Enginering.
Course in Mechanical Engineering.
Course in Electrical Engineering.
Course in Biology.
28
University of Notre Dame.
Classical Course.
Before entering the Freshman Year, a thorough written examination is
required, hearing upon all the branches of the Preparatory Course, which
are as follows :
Latin—Translation of Oeesar into. the vernacular, and of short English
sentences into Latin. Grammar, complete.
Greek—Translation of simple phrases into Greek, and translation of
Anabasis with parsing. Grammar, syntax.
English—Composition, letter writing and simple narrative.
History—American and Ancient History.
Mathematics—Arithmetic and Algebra completed.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Sallust—Catiline or Jugurtha.
2.	Ovid—Metamorphoses.
3.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
II.—GREEK.
1.	Grammar—Syntax.—Goodwin.
2.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
3.	Xenophon—Memorabilia—First two books.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—First Part.
2.	Oral Exercises on Prose Selections.
3.	Essay-writing on Familiar Topics.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1.	Modern History—To the Crusades.—Jfredet.
V.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Geometry—First three books.— Wentworth.
University of Notre Dame.
29
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Virgil—Selections from Bucolics and Georgies.
2.	Cicero—Orations against Catiline.
3.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
II	.—GREEK.
1.	Grammar—Completed and reviewed.
2.	Xenophon—Cyropaedia—First book.
3.	St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
4.	Exercises from Arnold’s Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—Completed and reviewed.
2.	Oral exercises on Selections in Poetry.
3.	Essay-writing on Familiar Topics.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1.	Modern History completed.—Fredet.
V	.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Geometry—Fourth book to Conic Sections.'—Wentworth.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Virgil—JEneid.
2.	Cicero—Orations.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
4.	Prosody—First Part.—Casserly.
II	.—GREEK.
1.	Homer—Iliad—First and sixth books.
2.	St. Gregory—Machabees.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Exercises on the Rules of Rhetoric.
2.	Lectures on English Literature.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1. Elementary Botany.
30	University of Notre Dame.
V.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History.
2.	Mythology.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Horace—Odes and Epodes.
2.	Cicero—De Senectute.
3.	Practical Exercises in Prose and Verse.
4.	Prosody—Second Part.—Casserly.
II	.—GREEK.
1.	Homer—Iliad—Sixth book and Cursory Reading of entire work.
2.	Thucydides—First book.
3.	Exercises in Prose Composition.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on English Literature.
2.	Shakespere—Study of the Principal Plays.
3.	Essays.
IV	.—NATURAL SCIENCES.
1. Elementary Botany.
V.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History.
N. B.—Every student must pass a thorough examination before being
admitted into thfe Junior Year.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Livy.—First book.
2.	Horace—Ars Poetica and Satires.
3.	Composition—Original Themes.
4.	Elements of Roman Literataure.
IL—GREEK.
1.	Demosthenes—De Corona.
2.	Sophocles—CEdipus Tyrannus.
3.	Practical Exercises.
4.	Elements of Greek Literature.
University of Notre Dame.
3i
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Principles of Literary Criticism.
2.	Lectures on American Literature.
3.	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
4.	Narrative and Descriptive Composition.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Logic and General Metaphysics.
V.—PHYSICAL SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Chemistry.
2.	Elementary Physics.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Tacitus—Agricola and Germania.
2.	Terence—Andria.
3.	Short Compositions in Prose and Verse.
4.	Elements of Roman Literature completed.
II.—GREEK.
1.	St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
2.	Cursory Reading of Homer’s Odyssey. -
3.	Short Prose Compositions.
4.	Elements of Greek Literature.
III	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Principles of Literary Criticism.
2.	Lectures on American Literature.
3.	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
3.	Expository and Argumentative Composition.
IV	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1. Cosmology, Anthropology and Theodicy.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.
2.
3.
3.
Plautus.
Quintillian.
- With Historical, Philological and Literary Explanations.
Original Compositions.
Latin Literature and Criticism.
32
University of Notre Dame.
II	.—GREEK.
1.	Plato — Apology and. Crito.
2.	Euripides—Medea or Iphigenia in Aulis.
3.	Pindar—Selections.
4.	History of Greek Literature.
III	.—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Lectures on Natural Law and General Ethics.
2.	Debates and Dissertations.
IV	.—HISTORY.
1. Philosophy of History.
V.—ENGLISH.
1. Belles Lettres.
N. B.—Every-student is expected to present at least two essays during
the term.
Second Term.
I.—LATIN.
1.	Oicero—De Officiis.	| With Historical, Philological and Lit-
2.	Lucretius—De Natura Rerum. f er ary Explanations.
3.	Original Discourses.
4.	Latin Literature and Comparative Criticism.
II.—GREEK.
1.	Bible — Reading at Sight.
2.	Sophocles—Philoctetes or Antigone.
3.	Aristophanes—“Clouds” or “Frogs.”
4.	History of Greek Literature.
HL—PHILOSOPHY.
1.	Special Ethics—Sociology and History of Ancient and Modern
Philosophy.
2.	Debates and Dissertations.
IV.—ENGLISH.
1. Belles Lettres.
V.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1. Political Economy—Manual of Political Economy.—Walker.
N. B.—During the term, every student is required to write two essays
and two orations, and to practice public speaking.

University of Notre Dame
33
English Course.
It is unnecessary to state the reasons why careful training in
the art of using the English language, both in speaking and
writing, is absolutely necessary. No man ignorant of the liter-
ary masterpieces of his own language, or unable to use it with
correctness, force and grace, is liberally educated. The Faculty
of the University have spared no pains to make the Special
English Course as thorough as possible.
The course extends over a period of four years, and those
who have completed the prescribed studies and passed the exam-
inations satisfactorily, receive the degree of Bachelor of Letters.
The degree is conferred only on those who, besides giving
evidence of a proficiency in the Classics and Science, have also
given proof of ability to apply the principles of composition
and shown an acquaintance with the writings of the best au-
thors in English literature.
The appended scheme of the course explains itself; it is
only necessary to emphasize the following points:
(1) From the beginning of the course to the end, special attention will be
paid to theme-writing. The themes will be read and criticised in
the author’s presence.
(1) Facilities are afforded for a training in journalism by the publication,
weekly, of the Notre Dame Scholastic, a twenty-four-page paper devoted
to the interests of the students, the columns of which are open to
their contributions. Every Student of the course is expected, after
the expiration of the first year, to contribute to the Scholastic at least
two articles each term.
(3) A graduation thesis will be required of every student; this must show,
besides grace of style, a satisfactory treatment of the theme selected.
Requirements for Entrance.
The following studies are required of all students entering
the English Course:
Latin.—The work of the Preparatory years, as required for
entrance into the Classical Course.
34	University of Notre Dame.
English.—The work of the Preparatory years, as required
for entrance into the Classical Course.
German.—The rudiments of German grammar. Ability to
translate, at sight, easy German prose into English, and easy
English passages into German.
Algebra.—The entire subject us far as logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra,
or similar text-books.
Geometry.—Plane and solid, as given in Wentworth, Chau-
venet or Newcomb.
Students must further be prepared to pass an examination in
Arithmetic, English Grammar, Orthography, General Geogra-
phy, Political and Physical, and the History of the United
States, unless satisfactory evidence is given of their proficiency
in these branches.
Students are required to pass two examinations,—one before
entering the Freshman Year, another before taking up the
Junior Classes.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on Hill’s “ Principles of Rhetoric.”
2.	Study of Selections in Prose.
3.	Narrative and Descriptive Themes.
4.	Figures and Qualities of Style.	.
5.	Required Readings.
II	.—LANGUAGES.
See course in Modern Languages.
HL— HISTORY.
1.	Modern History — From the Invasion of the Barbarians to the end of
the Crusades.—Fredet.
IV.—SCIENCES.
1. Anatomy, Physiology and Hygiene.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
University of Notre Dame.
35
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Study of Metrical Composition.
2.	Analysis of Selections in Poetry.
3.	Daily Themes in Prose or Verse.
4.	Required Readings.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III.—HISTORY.
1. Modern History completed.—Fredet.
IV.—ELOCUTION.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1. English Literature from Beowulf to Chaucer. Studies in the Canter-
bury Tales, with philological and metrical analysis. Selections from
More’s Utopia, Bacon’s Advancement of Learning, Milton’s Lycidas,
L’Allegro and 11 Penseroso, and parts of Paradise Lost: Hamlet,
Macbeth, King Lear, and the Merchant of Venice. Study of dra-
matists contemporary with Shakspere: Elizabethan lyrists.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History.
2.	Mythology.
IV	.—SCIENCES.
1.	Elementary Botany. .
2.	Elementary Chemistry.
3.	Elementary Physics.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	American Literature — Evangeline, Webster’s speeches and selections
from Browning’s American Republic.
2.	Lectures on Models of Style.
3.	Essays and Orations.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
University of Notre Dame.
II.—LANGUAGES.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	Greek and Roman History—To the Invasion of the Barbarians.
2.	Mythology.
IV	.—SCIENCES.
1. Elementary Botony.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Elements of Literary Criticism.
2.	English Literature — Studies in the Classical Period. Themes on the
growth of the Saxon influence in English literature. Newman and
Tennyson.
3.	Critical Study of Standard Prose Authors.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III	.—HISTORY.
1.	History of England.
IV	. —MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1.	Logic and Cosmology.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Elements of Literary Criticism—Herbert Spencer’s and Aristotle’s
Poetics.
2.	Lectures on the more notable authors and literary epochs.
3.	Special Studies in the Art of Expression.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
HL—HISTORY.
1. History of England.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1. Psychology and Theodicy.
University of Notre Dame.
37
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on Comparative Literature.
2.	Analysis of Style—De Quincey, Newman, Daniel Webster and Ruskin.
3.	Oratorical Composition. ’
4.	Lectures on the Literature of the Nineteenth Century.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
II	.— LANGUAGES.
III	.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1. Political Science.—Walker.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1. Moral Philosophy.
Second Term.
I.—ENGLISH.
1.	Lectures on Living Authors.
2.	Study of Special Influences.
3.	Conferences.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1.	Latin.
2.	French.
III.—POLITICAL SCIENCE.
1. Constitutional and Political History of the United States.
IV.—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1. Moral Philosophy.
38
University of Notre Dame.
General Science Course.
The Course in General Science is calculated to afford, together
with a liberal education, such an acquaintance with the methods
and facts of modern science as will best enable the student to
fit himself, either for further study of a technical or professional
kind, or for the activities of business life. The Natural and
Physical Sciences constitute the primary studies of the Course.
Grouped about these, are those studies in English, Mathematics
and the Modern Languages, which experience has shown to be
necessary, both for the intelligent pursuit of science and for the
attainment of the object of the Course.
Candidates for the Freshman Class must be prepared to
stand an examination in Arithmetic, English Grammar, Orthog-
raphy, United States History and Geography, unless satisfactory
assurances of their proficiency in these branches are given. In
addition, they must pass an examination in the following:
Latin and English.—Same as in entrance requirements for
Freshman Class, Classical Course.
Geometry.—Plane and Solid, as given in works like those of
Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb.
Algebra.—The whole subject, as far as logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra,
or similar text-books.
Modern History.—The Outlines of Modern History, from
the Fall of the Roman Empire to the present time.
French or German.—The rudiments of French or German
Grammar. Ability to translate at sight easy French or German
prose into English, and easy English passages into French or
German. A half course in one of these languages is requisite
for entrance. A full four years’ course, to be begun in the
Freshman Year, if not before, is prescribed in the other.
Equivalents will be accepted. A student deficient in one of
these entrance requirements may be admitted to the Course,
but on the condition of making up the deficiency during the
Freshman Year.
University of Notre Dame.	39
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every student
during the Sophomore Year and two during the Junior Year.
The scientific work of the Senior Year is elective. Advanced
courses may be elected in Physics, Chemistry, Biology, or
Mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Course of General Sci-
ence is required to submit, at least six weeks before the final
examinations, a written thesis upon some subject connected
with the elective work of the Senior Year. The subject chosen
must have the approval of the professor in the course elected-
The thesis shall contain not less than six thousand words, and
must be satisfactory in matter, style and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the final
examinations and present a satisfactory thesis, will receive the
degree of Bachelor of Science.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1.	Human Anatomy—Physiology and Hygiene.
2.	Microscopy—Microscopical Technology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Elementary Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory work.*
2.	Elementary Physics—Lectures and Laboratory work.*
III	.— MATHEMATICS.
1.	Algebra (completed)—Logarithms, Series, Determinants, and Theory
of Equations.
[V.—ENGLISH.
1. Rhetoric—As in English Course.
V	. —LANGUAGES.
1.	French or German—The same as in First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
VI	.—DRAWING.
1.	Free-Hand Drawing and Lettering.
* Provided for students who do not offer these as entrance requirements.
40
University of Notre Dame.
Second Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1.	Zoology—The Structure and Classification of Animals.
2.	Demonstration in the Biological Laboratory.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
work.
III	.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Trigonometry—The entire subject.
IV	.—ENGLISH.
1.	Rhetoric—As in English Course.
V	. —LANGUAGES.
1.	French or German.
VI	.— DRAWING.
1.	Mechanical Drawing.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1. Botany—Organography, Histology and General Classification of Plants.
Demonstration in Biological Laboratory.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1. Qualitative Chemical Analysis.
III.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Analytic Geometry.
' IV.—LANGUAGES.
1. French or German.
V.—DRAWING.
1. Mechanical Drawing and Tinting.
Second Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1.	Botany—Practice in Plant Analysis.
2.	Demonstration in Biological Laboratory.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1. General Descriptive Physics — Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
work.
University of Notre Dame.
4i
III.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Analytic Geometry.
IV.—LANGUAGES.
1. French or German.
V.—DRAWING.
1. Mechanical Drawing and Sketching.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1. Mineralogy — Crystallography — Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals.
' IL —MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calculus—The entire subject of Differential Calculus.
2.	Astronomy—As far as Eclipses.
III	.—LANGUAGES.	'
1.	French or German.
IV	.—ELECTIVE.
1. One Course.
Second Term.
I.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1.	Mineralogy—Classification and Description of Minerals.
2.	Blow-pipe Analysis and Metallurgy.
3.	Geology—Lectures, Laboratory and Field Work.
II.— MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calcu us—The entire subject of Integral Calculus.
2.	Astronomy concluded.
III	.—LANGUAGES.
1.	French or German.
IV	.—ELECTIVE.
1.	One Course.
b
42
University of Notre Dame.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—ELECTIVE SCIENCE.
1. Advanced Courses in Physics, Chemistry, Biology or Mathematics.
II.—LANGUAGES.
1. French or German Readings.	’
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
1. Logic and General Metaphysics—Lectures.
Second Term.
I	.—ELECTIVE SCIENCE.
1.	Advanced Courses in Physics, Chemistry, Biology oUMathematics.
IL—LANGUAGES.
1. French or German Readings.
III.—PHILOSOPHY.
1. Special Metaphysics—Lectures.
University of Notre Dame.
43
School of Civil Engineering.
The Course of instruction in Civil Engineering, (carefully-
prepared and presented in the following programme,) is
designed to give the student, not only a theoretical knowledge
of the various branches of Engineering, but at the same time
to illustrate so fully, by experimental work, the subject theo-
retically considered in the class-room, as to enable the graduate
to enter at once intelligently upon the duties of his profession,
either in the office or in some of the responsible positions super-
intending the construction and operation of public works.
Instruction is given throughout the Course by means of
text-books, lecturers, and practice in laboratory, drawing-room
and field. Practical problems, bearing directly upon the sub-
ject-matter discussed in the class-room, are prepared by the
instructors, and solutions required from the student, thus exem-
plifying in the best manner possible the principles studied and
learned, and teaching their application to practical engineering
questions. The following is a general outline of the subjects
considered and work done during the four years necessary to
complete the Course and to receive the degree of Civil Engineer.
Surveying.
The course in Plane Surveying is given by means of text-
book and recitations, supplemented by practical work in the
field. The use and adjustments of the instruments are first fully
explained. The students go into the field during the spring
months, when the weather permits, handle and adjust the instru-
ments, and practice the principal operations comprised in land,
topographical, railroad and city surveying. In the drawing-
room, the work done in the field is platted, and maps carefully
prepared. In the second year is given a course, twenty weeks,
five hours each week, in higher surveying, leveling and geodesy,
including a continuation of the practical applications in the field.
All that pertains to the measurement of base lines, necessary
for extensive surveys, and geodetic work, including problems
44
University of Notre Dame.
relating to the figure of the earth, are discussed and thoroughly
examined.
Railroad Engineering.
Instruction in Railroad Engineering comprises a study (in
the class-room) of the various curves, turn-outs and crossings,
necessary in railroad location; problems relating to the compu-
tation of earthwork, excavation and embankment, by the pris-
moidal and other formulae, elevation of the outer rail, and all
that pertains to railway construction, equipment and manage-
ment are also carefully considered. In the field the students
make the usual preliminary survey preparatory to the most
favorable location for a railroad. A route is selected and a line
located on the ground in a position and of sufficient length to
include an application of the problems discussed in the class-
room. The usual cross section leveling is done; maps, profiles,
and plans are prepared; calculations of the necessary excava-
tions and embankments are made, and estimates of cost of con-
struction worked out by the student from data obtained in the
field.
Sanitary Engineering.
The course in Sanitary Engineering treats of drainage, sewer-
age, construction of sewers, ventilation of dwellings, etc.
Instruction is given both by text book and lectures. The course
is intended to prepare the student to provide intelligently for
the safety of the health of communities, by proper drainage and
disposal of sewerage, and to prepare plans for the construction
of sewers and all works pertaining to drainage and water supply.
Analytic Mechanics.
This course covers the principles of statics, work and energy,
moment of inertia, effects of friction, and the mathematical
investigations necessary to determine the action of forces on
solids, liquids and gases.
Mechanics of Engineering.
The course in Mechanics of Engineering and Resistance of
Materials comprises a study of the strength and elasticity of
the materials used in engineering structures. The theory of
University of Notre Dame.	45
torsion, shearing forces, flexure of beams and columns under
the action of perpendicular and oblique forces, simple and con-
tinuous grinders, the effects of moving lodes on structures, and
the theory of arches, are carefully examined and discussed.
Both analytical and graphical methods are used, and results
compared. The student is taught by the most approved
methods, how to design and proportion the various parts that
enter into engineering structures. The proportioning of beams,
columns, roofs, arches, foundations, piers, retaining walls, and
the like, are studied in this course.
Bridges and Roofs.
This study embraces an account of the different forms of
these structures in wood, stone and iron, and the methods of
analyzing and determining the strains to which they are sub-
jected and the proportioning of their parts with a view to
economy of material and expense.
Hydraulics.
In this study will be considered the theoretical laws that
apply to liquids at rest and in motion. The flow of water
through pipes, orifices, channels, over weirs, frictional resist-
ances, determining velocity of currents, are some of the sub-
jects considered.
Graphical Statics.
This course comprises a full study of the graphical analysis
of the strains in roof and bridge trusses, and arches. The work
is illustrated by the solution of many practical problems. In
stereotomy, problems relating to stone-cutting are studied and
worked out, wherein the principles of descriptive geometry are
applied, and the work in detail necessary for the construction
of stone structures, such as arches, piers, wing-walls, etc., is
fully explained.
Astronomy.
During the last year the students are given a course in theo-
retical and practical astronomy, including a study of the methods
of determining latitude, longitude, the meridian, time, calcula-
46
University of Notre Dame.
tion of eclipses, as also the theory of astronomical instruments,
planetary perturbations, etc.
Drawing.
A full course is given in mechanical and topographical draw-
ing, tinting, tracing, lettering and blue-printing sufficient to
enable the student taking the course to make, without further
preparation, drawings, maps and profiles of any proposed work.
Instruments.
The school is fully equipped with all the instruments neces-
sary for effective work in the different branches of field engi-
neering. Among these instruments may be mentioned engineer-
ing transits, wye levels, plane-table, rods, tapes, chains, etc.
The physical and chemical laboratories are fully provided with
all the instruments and appliances necessary for full and com-
plete courses in Physics and Chemistry.
Written examinations are held at the close of each term on
the whole subject matter studied during the term, and the
results entered on the records of the Faculty. Should a student
fail to obtain the required average for promotion, he may ask,
after a reasonable preparation, for a second examination, in
order that he may enter upon the work of the next term. If
still unsuccessful, he will be required to review the work until
his proficiency entitles him to promotion.
Any student found neglecting his work and not applying
himself diligently to his studies will be suspended from the
course by the Faculty as soon as the delinquency is ascertained.
The following are the conditions requisite to enter the
Freshman Class: The candidate must pass examination in
plane and solid Geometry as given in the works of Chauvenet,
Newcomb, Wentworth, or an equivalent in other authors.
Algebra,— the whole subject as far as logarithms, as given in
Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in Algebra,
or an equivalent in the advanced works of other authors.
The requirements in English and Latin are the same as for
the Freshman Class, Classical Course.
Modern History.—The outlines of modern History from
the Downfall of the Roman Empire to the present time
University of Notre Dame.
47
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
2.	Algebra — Logarithms, Binomial Theorem, Series, Determinants and
Theory of Equations.
II	.—LANGUAGES.
1.	English—Rhetoric—Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, and Essay Writing.
2.	French—The same as the First Term, First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
III	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Chemistry (Elementary)—Lectures and Laboratory work.
2.	Physics (Elementary)—Lectures and Laboratory work.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Surveying — The entire subject of Land, Topographical and Under-
ground Surveying—Recitations and Field work.
2.	Analytic Geometry—The entire subject
IL—LANGUAGE.
1. English—Rhetoric—Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, and Essay Writing.
21 French—The same as the Second Term, First Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
III	.—DRAWING.
1.	Mechanical Drawing—Free-Hand Drawing and Lettering.
IV	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1. Shop Work—Exercises in Carpentry, Joinery and Turning.
Note.—The lee for laboratory work during' this year is twenty dollars.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
L—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calculus—Differential—The entire subject.
2.	Descriptive Geometry—Theory of Orthographic and Spherical Pro-
jections.
3.	Railroad Engineering—Recitations and Field work.
48
University of Notre Dame.
II	.— DRAWING.
1.	Topographical Drawing and Tinting.
2.	Free-Hand Drawing and Lettering.
III	.—LANGUAGE.
1.	French—The same as the First Term, Second Year, Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Physics—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
work.
V	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Shop Work—Chipping, Draw-filing, Grinding and Manipulation of
Tools—Lathe work begun.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calculus—Integral—The entire subject.
2.	Advanced Surveying.
3.	Geodesy.
4.	Descriptive Geometry — Shades and Shadows, Perspective, Isometric
Projection and Drawing.
II	.—DRAWING.
1.	Topographical Drawing—From Notes taken on Survey—Tinting, Free-
Hand Drawing and Lettering.
III	. —LANGUAGE.
1.	French—The same as the Second Term, Second Year. Course of Modern
Languages.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Physics — Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
work.
2.	General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
work.
V.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1. Shop Work—Forging, Welding and Riveting.
Note.—The fee for laboratory work during this year is thirty dollars.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I. - MATHEMATICS.
1.	Analytic Mechanics—Principles of Statics and Kinetics.
2.	Astronomy—Descriptive Astronomy.
University of Notre Dame.
49
II — DRAWING.
1. Mechanical Drawing—Tinting, Tracing and Blue-Printing.
III	.—NATURAL SCIENCE.
1.	Mineralogy — Crystallography, Physical and Chemical Properties of
Minerals, Descriptive Mineralogy, Classification.
IV	.—FIELD ENGINEERING.
1.	Running Tangents—Locating Simple, Compound and Reversed Curves.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Mechanics of Engineering — Elasticity, Strength and Resistance of
Materials; Action of Forces, Perpendicular and Oblique, on Simple
and Continuous Girders.
2.	Astronomy—Spherical and Practical Astronomy.
II	.—DRAWING.
1.	Mechanical Drawing—Tinting, Tracing and Blue-Printing.
III	.-NATURAL SCIENCE.
1. Geology—Lectures, Laboratory and Field Work.
IV.—ENGINEERING.
1. Railroad Engineering — Leveling, Cross-Sectioning, Contouring and
Topography.
Four essays, two each term, on some engineering topic assigned by the
Professor of Civil Engineering, are required from each student during the
Junior Year. Essays are subject to the approval of the Professors of
Rhetoric and Civil Engineering. The time at which the essays are to be
presented is fixed by the Director of Studies.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Mechanics of Engineering—Hydraulics, Flow of Water Through Pipes,
Orifices, Over Weirs, Velocity in Channels. Theory and Design of
Masonry Dams; Pneumatics.
2.	Civil Engineering—Theory of Structures.
3.	Stereotomy and Theory of the Arch.
50
University of Notre Dame.
II.—DRAWING.
1. Working Drawings of Bridges, Arches and Other Structures.
III.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
I.	Logic.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Civil Engineering — Theory of Structures.
2.	Graphical Analysis.
3.	Theory of the Construction of Bridges and Roofs.
4.	Sanitary Engineering and Public Hygiene.
IL—MENTAL AND MORAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic.
III.—DRAWING.
1. Working Drawings of Engineering Structures.
THESIS WORK.
A Thesis is required in the Senior Year as a condition of graduation.
The subject of the Thesis must be one requiring original study and
investigation, and must be submitted to the Professor of Civil Engineering
for approval at the opening term of the Senior Year. It must be read and
defended by the Student before the Faculty of Engineering and at a time
fixed by the Director of Studies. Should the Thesis not receive the
endorsement of the Faculty, the degree will be withheld until the presen-
tation of a satisfactory Thesis.
Course in Electrical Engineering.
This course is designed to prepare young men for work in
the various practical applications of electricity. Physics, espec-
ially the part relating to theoretical and applied electricity,
Mechanical Engineering and Mathematics, are the principal
subjects studied. Students completing this course are entitled
to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, with a statement in the
diploma that he has paid special attention to electrical work.
The Electrical Engineering Laboratory is well equipped
with accurate measuring instruments, such as the Weston volt
and am-meters, Siemen's • dynamometer wattmeters, tangent
galvanometers, wheatstone bridges, Thompson high resistance
and other galvanometers. As regards machinery, there is an
University of Notre Dame.	51
automatic high speed engine, an Edison 110 volt dynamo, a
T. H. arc machine, a high frequency alternator and numerous
smaller dynamos and motors of various types. There is a com-
plete electroplating outfit — engine, dynamo, tanks, buffing
wheels and polishing materials. The University lighting plant,
consisting of a low pressure automatic high speed engine, two
Edison 25 K. W. dynamos, and the wiring in the various build-
ings gives the student an opportunity to learn the actual work-
ing conditions in this branch of engineering.
As a condition for graduation, each student must write one
essay in each term of the Sophomore and Junior years on a sub-
ject connected with the work of the course. These essays must
be approved by the Professor of English. In the Senior year,
each candidate for a degree must prepare an acceptable thesis
containing the results of extended original research on a sub-
ject selected under the guidance of the head of the department.
.The requirements for admission are the same as for the
course in Civil Engineering.
A special course in Applied Electricity will be given for
those students who do not wish to complete the full course:
They may enter this course on the recommendation of the
Director of Studies, after proving to him that they have the
ability to take up the work with profit.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Trigonometry—The entire subject.
2.	Algebra—Logarithms, Series, Determinants and Theory of Equations.
II	.—LANGUAGE.
1.	English—Rhetoric, Oral Exercises and Essays.
2.	French or German—Progressive Elementary Exercises. Grammar and
Reading.
III	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Chemistry—Elementary, Lectures and Laboratory.
2.	Physics—Elementary, Lectures and Recitations.

52	University of Notre Dame.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Analytic Geometry—The Entire Subject.
II	.—LANGUAGE.
1.	English—Rhetoric, Recitations and Essays.
2.	French or German — Grammar and Reading'.
III	.—DRAWING.
1.	Freehand and Instrumental Drawing, Sketching from flat copies and
models of machine parts, use of instruments, lettering and section
lineing.
IV	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1. Shopwork—Exercises in Carpentery, Joinery and Turning.
Note.—Laboratory fee for this year is twenty dollars.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS..
1.	Calculus—The entire subject of Differential Calculus.
2.	Descriptive Geometry—Theory of Orthographic and Spherical Pro-
jections. Practice in drawing a number of accurate plates.
II.—DRAWING.
1.	Machine Drawing—Methods of Shop Drawing, Tinting, Tracing and
Blue Printing.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Shop Work—Applications of Carpentry, Joinery and Turning in Pattern
Making, Forge Work.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Chemistry—Lecture and Laboratory Work in Qualitative Analysis.
2.	General Descriptive Physics — A course of advanced lectures on
mechanics, sound and light.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calculus—The entire subject of Integral Calculus.
2.	Descriptive Geometry—Shades and Shadows, Perspective, Isometric
Projection and Drawing of Plates.
University of Notre Dame.
53
II	.—DRAWING.
1.	Line Shading and Working Drawings of Complete Machines.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Shop Work—Chipping, Draw Filing, Grinding and Manipulation of
Tools. Lathe work begun.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Physics—A Course of Advanced Lectures on Heat,
Electricity and Magnetism. Laboratory Practice.
V	.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
1. Magnetism—Lecture and Recitations on Magnetic Quantities, Per-
meability, etc. Solution of General Problems in Electricity and
Magnetism.
Note.—Laboratory fee for this year is thirty dollars.
Junior Year
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Analytic Mechanics—Principles of Statics and Kinetics.
II.—DRAWING.
1.	Kinematic—Designing Cams and.Gear Teeth for Specific Purposes.
III.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Kinematics—Theory of Cams and Gear Teeth, Study of Motion of
Machine Parts and Kinematic Trains.
2.	Shopwork—Accurate work on Engine Lathes, Planers, Shaping and
Milling Machines.
IV.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1. Physical Laboratory—Practical Physical Measurements, Standardizing
Instruments, Determining Temperature Coefficients, etc.
V.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Analytic Mechanics—Elasticity, Strength of Materials and Hydraulics.
II.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Machine Design—Study of Form and Strength of Machine parts as
applied in designing. Valve Gears, Zeuner Diagram, Slide Valves,
Corliss Valves, Shifting Eccentrics, etc.
54	University of Notre Dame.
2.	Shopwork—Construction of Machine Tools, Reamers, Taps and Mill-
ing Tools.
•	III.—DRAWING.
1.	Kinematic — Complete working drawings of Machines involving the
applications of Kinematics and Computation of Dimensions.
IV	.—PYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Physical Laboratory—Accurate work with Standards of Resistance,
E. M. F., Current and Self Induction Magnetic Permeability,
Photometry, etc.
V	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic.
Note.—Laboratory fee for this year is thirty dollars.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Dynamo Electric Machinery—Mathematics applied to Machinery and
Circuits. Alternate currents treated mathematically.
II	.—DRAWING.
1.	Technical — Designing Switchboards and Apparatus. Wiring of
Buildings.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Thermodynamics — Laws of Thermodynamics of Gases, Saturated
Vapors and Superheated Steam. Hirns Analysis.
IV	.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Electrical Laboratory—Characteristic Curves of Dynamos, Efficiency
Tests by Absorption Dynamometers, complete study of Arc and
Incandescent Machines.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Dynamo Electric Machinery—Completed.
II	.—DRAWING.
1.	Technical—Designing Direct and Alternating Current Dynamos,
Transformers and Accessory Apparatus.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Thermodynamics—Prime Movers, Analysis of Indicator Cards of Steam
Engines, Study of Gas Engines, Modern Forms of Steam Engines
including Injectors, Governors, Refrigerating Machines, Turbines,
etc.
University of Notre Dame.	55
IV	.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Electrical Laboratory—Complete Engine and Dynamo Efficiency Tests,
Storage Batteries, Alternate Current Working and Transformer
Tests.	•
Note.—Laboratory fee for this year is twenty dollars.
These extra charges as specified in the preceding course are in addi-
tion to the $300.00 required from all students. They are made to cover,
in part, the material used and the deterioration of the apparatus. The
one fee includes all the laboratories in which work is required in that year.
Course in Mechanical Engineering.
The Course in Mechanical Engineering, leading to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, is given to those young men
who wish to prepare themselves for the designing of machinery
with its appurtenances, and for the successful management of
power plants. As the course requires a thorough knowledge
of mathematics, both pure and applied, as well as of physics,
only those capable of adapting themselves to these require-
ments should take it up. The course is modeled in the two-
fold belief that a thorough fundamental training is essential to
success in engineering, and that this training is best secured by
a study of the practical application of the principles involved,
as well as of the theoretical principles.
The courses in shop work are most complete. The first
year's work is confined to practice in the woodshop, in which
the principles of carpentry, turning and pattern making are
taught. Circular and jig saws, planing and mortising machines,
with lathes and a full complement of the minor tools necessary,
form an admirable equipment for this work. When students
have become sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the
work of the foundry, blacksmith shop and machine shop. The
iron-working shops have been fitted up with the latest improved
lathes, planers, shaping and milling machines, and all the acces-
sories necessary for the attainment by the student of a thorough
course in this branch. A systematic course of training, advanc-
ing the student by easy steps until he has mastered all the
details of the art, is provided.
56
University of Notre Dame
In laboratory work, the student is made familiar with the
methods of testing the steam engine and other vapor engines,
the use of the indicator, chronograph and dynamometers, and
with the calibration of the instruments used in this work.
The properties of the materials of construction are studied
in theory by the aid of the text-book, and in practice by the aid
of testing machines. The construction of a complete working
mechanism, illustrating the application of the theory and prac-
tice, is required in this course. Kinematics and Machine
Design are studied in detail and, with the required drawing,
occupy the larger portion of the Junior Year.
In the Senior Year the Steam Engine, its theory, design,
structure, construction and operation are made the chief topic
of study, to which are added lectures on the design and con-
struction of steam boilers, with a study of the advantages of
the various types to be found on the market.
In the latter part of the Senior Year, the course embraces
designing, experimental investigation or original research in
some topic selected by the Professor. Here especially the stu-
dent is taught to depend as much as possible upon his own
resources and abilities, in order to exercise and develop his
ingenuity.
The requirements for entrance are the same as for the
course in Civil Engineering-.
O	Q
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
2.	Algebra—Logarithms, Series, Determinants and Theory of Equations.
II.—LANGUAGE.
1.	English—Rhetoric—Oral Exercises and Essays.
2.	French or German—Progressive elementary exercises.	’
III.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Chemistry (Elementary)—Lectures and Laboratory.
2.	Physics (Elementary)—Lectures and Laboratory.
University of Notre Dame.
57
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Analytic Geometry—Plane and Solid.
II.—LANGUAGE.
1.	English.—Rhetoric—Recitations and Essays.
2.	French or German—Grammar and Reading.
III.—DRAWING.
1. Free-Hand and Instrumental Drawing—Sketching from flat copies and
models of machine parts. Use of Instruments, Lettering and Section
Lining.
IV.— MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1. Shop Work—Exercises in Carpentry, Joinery and Turning.
Note.—Laboraiory lee for this year is twenty dollars.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calculus—Differential—The entire subject.
2.	Descriptive Geometry—Theory of Orthographic and Spherical Projec-
tions. Application in Drawing.
II	.—DRAWING.
1.	Machine Drawing — Methods of Shop-Drawing, Tinting, Tracing and
Blue-Printing.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Shop Work—Application of Carpentry and Turning to Pattern Making.
Forging.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory work in Qualitative Analysis.
2.	Physics—General Descriptive Physics—A course of advanced lectures
on Mechanics, Sound and Light.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1.	Calculus—Integral—The entire subject.
2.	D'scriptive Geometry— Shades and Shadows, Perspective, Isometric
Projection and Drawing.
58
University of Notre Dame.
II.— DRAWING.
1.	Machine Drawing—Line Shading and Working Drawings of Complete
Machines.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Shop Work — Chipping, Draw-filing, Grinding and Manipulation of
Tools. Lathe work begun.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Physics — A Course of advanced lectures on Heat,
Electricity and Magnetism. Laboratory practice.
2.	Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory work in Quantitative Analysis.
Note.—Laboratory fee for this year is thirty dollars.
Junior Year.
First Term.
L—MATHEMATICS.
1. Analytical Mechanics—Principles of Statics and Kinetics.
II	.— DRAWING.
1.	KinematicDrawing—Designing of Cams and Gear Teeth for Specific
Purposes.
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Kinematics—Theory of Cams and Gear Teeth. Study of Motions of
Machine Parts and Kinematic Trains.
2.	Shop Work — Accurate work on Engine Lathes, Planers, Shaping and
Milling Machines.
IV	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Physics—Laboratory—Accurate work with Standards of Resistance;
E. M. F., Current Strength and Self-Induction.
Second Term.
I.—MATHEMATICS.
1. Mechanics of Engineering — Elasticity, Strength and Resistance of
Material’s; Action of Forces on Simple and Continuous Girders.
Hydraulics.
IL—DRAWING.
1. Kinematic Drawing—Complete Working Drawings of Machines Involv-
ing the Application of Kinematics and Computation of Dimensions
University of Notre Dame.
59
III	.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Machine Design — Study of Form and Strength of Machine Parts, as
Applied in Designing.
2.	Valve Gears — Zenner Diagram, Slide-Valves, Corliss Valves, Shifting
Eccentrics, etc.
3.	Shop Work — Construction of Machine Tools, Reamers, Taps, Twist
Drills and Milling Tools.
IV	.—ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Laboratory—Efficiency Tests of Dynamos and Motors; Investigation of
Systems of Lighting and Power Distribution.
Note.—Laboratory fee for this year is thirty dollars.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logi c—Lectures.
II.—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Thermodynamics — Laws of Thermodynamics of Gases, Saturated
Vapors and Superheated Steam. Theory of Steam Engine, Gas
Engine and other Heat Motors. Hirn’s Analysis.
2.	Materials of Engineering — Manufacture, Properties and Uses of Iron,
Steel and Alloys. Strength, Ductility, Elasticity and Resistance, as
affected in loading.
3.	Steam Engine Design—Calculations and Complete Working Drawings
of a Steam Engine for a Specific Purpose.
4.	Shop Work—Construction of a Complete Working Model from an Orig-
inal Design.
5.	Mechanical Laboratory—Valve Setting, Calibration of Indicator Springs,
Use of Prony Brake and other Dynamometers. Steam Engine Testing.
Second Term,
o
I. —MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic—Lectures.
IL—MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1.	Thermodynamics — Prime Movers. Analysis of Indicator Cards of
Steam Engines, Study of Gas Engines, Modern Forms of Steam
Engines, Governors, Injectors, Turbines and Refrigerating Machines.
6o
University of Notre Dame.
2.	Steam Engine Design—Complete Working Drawings, with. Calculations,
for a Condensing Multiple Expansion Steam Engine for Marine
Service.
3.	Thesis—The major part of this term is devoted to the preparation of a
graduating thesis, in which the student is expected to exhibit some-
thing of the knowledge gained throughout the entire course.
Note.—Laboratory fee for this year is twenty dollars.
These extra charges as specified in the preceding course are in addition
to the $300.00 required from all students. They are made to cover, in part,
the material used and the deterioration of the apparatus. The one fee
includes all the laboratories in which work is required in that year.
Course in Biological Science,
This Course leads to the degree of “ Bachelor of Science in
Biology.” The University has provided this special course for
students who wrish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the study of
medicine or veterinary science, or with a view to teaching, or
otherwise engaging in biological research.
Entrance Requirements.
i. Latin Grammar- completed and reading of Caesar, with
translation of easy English sentences into Latin. 2. English
Grammar completed. 3. English Composition (one year’s
course). 4. Arithmetic completed. 5. Algebra to quadratics,
inclusive. 6. Geometry, plane and solid, completed. 7. Mod-
ern History completed. 8. United States History. 9. French
or German equal to two years’ course in the University, i. e.,
ability to write and translate easy prose.
From the programme of studies laid down, it may be s^en
that during the first two years the student must acquire knowl-
edge of the elements of biological science, as well as a thorough
knowledge of Chemistry. '
During the last two years he is led deeper into the study of
both the organic and inorganic worlds, and at the same time is
required to apply his knowledge. During these two years the
University oe Notre Dame.
6i
student is urged, not merely to repeat the experiments and
observations made by others, but every facility and encourage-
ment is given him to devote himself to original investigation.
The students in this course are also required to prepare an
essay on some biological subject during the first term of the
Junior Year, and a monograph during the second term of the
same year. In the Senior Year, they must prepare a graduation
thesis of not less than six thousand words. Both the monograph
and the thesis must be accompanied with original drawings. No
student will receive a degree without fulfilling these conditions.
Students not preparing themselves for the study of medicine,
may substitute for the advanced course in Anatomy and Physi-
ology, equivalents from any other course, either Mathematics,
Physics or English Literature. Finally, it is hardly necessary
to add that all the various laboratories and the Museum of Nat-
ural History are well supplied with the apparatus and speci-
mens necessary for an extended course in Biology, and that few
schools of science offer their students such freedom in the use
of apparatus and laboratory accommodations.
Freshman Year.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Elementary Course in Human Anatomy and Physiology.
2.	Elements of Microscopical Technology and of Human Histology.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Elementary Course in Chemistry—Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
2.	Elementary Course in Physics—Lectures and Laboratory Practice.
III	.—ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
1.	Rhetoric—Sentence Structure—Figures of Speech.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1. German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
V.—DRAWING.
1. Free-Hand Drawing.
62	University of Notre Dame.
Second Term.
L— BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Elementary Course in Zoology — Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
2.	Elements of Microscopical Technology and of Animal Histology.
IL —PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
III	.—ENGLISH LANGUAGE.
1.	Rhetoric—Study of Metrical Composition—Required Readings.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1. German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
Y.—DRAWING.
L Free-Hand Drawing.
Sophomore Year.
First Term.
I	.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Elementary Course in Botany and work in Botanical Laboratory.
2.	Advanced Microscopical Technology.
3.	Elementary Vegetable Histology.
4.	Cytology—Lectures and Demonstrations in Biological Laboratory.
II.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1. Qualitative Chemical Analysis.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1.	German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
IV	.—DRAWING.
1. Free-Hand Drawing.
One short essay, on subject selected by the Professor of Biology.
Second Term.
I	.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Biology—Study of Types of Animals and Plants.
2.	Elementary Course in Botany—Vegetable Morphology and Plant
Analysis. ■
3.	Microchemistry and Elementary Vegetable Histology.
University of Notre Dame.	63
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Elementary Organic Chemistry.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1. German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
IV.— DRAWING.
1. Free-Hand Drawing.
Two short essays on subjects selected by the Professor of Biology.
Junior Year.
First Term.
I	.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
•2. Advanced Course in Zoology — Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
II	.—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Mineralogy—Classification of Minerals and Laboratory Work.
III	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1.	German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
One essay of not less than one thousand words, satisfactory in matter,
style and form.
Second Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
2.	Advanced Course in Zoology — Lectures, Recitations and Laboratory
Work.
3.	Comparative Anatomy of Vertebrates with Special Work in Mammalian
Anatomy.
IL—PHYSICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Quantitative Chemical Analysis.
2.	Geology and Palmontology.
III.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1. German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
Monograph on subject selected in Zoology or Botany, of not less than
two thousand words and illustrated by original drawings.
64
University of Notre Dame.
Senior Year.
First Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
2.	Advanced Human Physiology.
3.	Advanced Course in Human Histology.
4.	Advanced Course in Botany — Structure and Classification;of
Cryptogams.
5.	Bacteriology—Lectures and Practical Work.
IL	— SANITARY SCIENCE.
1.	Lectures on Health and Public Hygiene.
III	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1. Logic.
IV.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1.	German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
Second Term.
I.—BIOLOGICAL SCIENCE.
1.	Advanced Course in Human Anatomy.
2.	Advanced Course in Human Physiology.
3.	Advanced Course in Botany—Structure and Classification of Phanero-
gams, Plant Analysis.
4.	Advanced Course in Vegetable Histology.
O	O v
5.	Comparative Embryology—Study of the Development of a Chick.
6.	Photography—Including special work in reference to Science and also
Photo-Micrography.
II	.—SANITARY SCIENCE.
1.	Lectures on Health and Public Hygiene.
2.	Elements of Materia Medica. (Optional.)
III	.—MENTAL SCIENCE.
1.	General Metaphysics and Psychology.
IV	.—MODERN LANGUAGE.
1. German or French. (See Course in Languages.)
Graduation Thesis, containing not less than six thousand words, must
be handed in before the 1st of June, and must be illustrated by original
pen drawings.
University of Notre Dame.
Law Department.
Faculty.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, 0. S. C.,
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D., Dean,
International Law, Equity Jurisprudence and Pleadings, Common Law
Pleadings, Real and Personal Property, Evidence, Domestic
Relations, Contracts, Torts, etc.
HON. LUCIUS HUBBARD. LL. D.,
Insurance and Code Pleadings.
ABRAHAM L. BRICK, LL. M.,
• Criminal Law, Pleading and Practice.
HON. TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Appellate Jurisdiction of Supreme Court.
HON. JOHN GIBBONS, LL. D.,
Constitutional Law.
WILLIAM P. BREEN, A. M., LL. B.,
Statutory Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
Political Economy.
GEORGE E. CLARKE, A. M., LL. M.,
Advocacy.
REV. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, O. S. 0.,
Toxicology and Medical Jurisprudence.
66
University of Notre Dame.
The course of study in this department covers a period of
three years. However, when students are entitled to advanced
standing by reason of previous study, or have been actually
engaged in the practive of law, one or two years of faithful
work may enable them to complete the course. And so where
they have studied a year or more in other law schools.
The authorities of the University are sincerely in sympathy
with the efforts now making in educational and legal circles to
raise to the highest plane practicable
The Standard of Proficiency
for graduation in law and admission to the bar. However, they
aim to be guided in the matter by the dictates of sound reason.
They know that a great number of worthy and capable young
men who desire to qualify themselves for the legal profession
are prevented by circumstances from completing the studies
of a collegiate course before an age that seems to make imper-
ative the obligation of beginning without delay the study of
law. Such young men, many of whom may be actively engaged
in business, in teaching, in journalistic work, and the like, are
almost necessarily driven to the chaotic and discouraging study
of the law in offices, if denied indulgent consideration by the
institutions of higher learning. It is conceived to be the duty
of a University to do all the good it can to as many as possible,
consistently with its curriculum and standing; and to that
end it ought to aid and encourage, to the full limit of its oppor-
tunities, worthy and upright, honest and capable young men
who manifest an earnest desire to qualify themselves for a use-
ful and creditable career in the higher walks of professional
life. With a view to doing its full share in that regard, the
University of Notre Dame will welcome to its halls and its
classes every deserving young man who desires to pursue and
become proficient in the study of the law. However, if his
standing in general education or collegiate work be not suffi-
ciently advanced to enable him to undertake with profit the
studies of the regular course in law, he may enter the elemen-
tary class, the members of which are given instruction in the
fundamental principles of the law for an hour each day. The
University of Notre Dame.
67
remainder of his time is devoted to study and recitation in such
of the collegiate classes as, in the opinion of the authorities,
may prove most useful and helpful in qualifying him to enter
as speedily as practicable upon the studies of the regular
course in law.
At least one year’s work is required in the elementary class,
while two full scholastic years must be given by candidates for
graduation to the studies of the regular course.
Students of the elementary class are subject to all the rules
of discipline obtaining in Brownson Hall, to which they are
attached while preparing for the regular course. On entering
this, they are transferred to Sorin Hall, where they have rooms,
attend class, practice in the moot court, hold society meetings
and discharge the many duties incident to a practical and com-
prehensive study of the law.
The elementary course comprises at least one year. The
student must be over 17 years of age. He must have a fair
general education and be able accurately to write the English
language. A preliminary examination may be required as a
means of ascertaining his educational standing.
The regular course comprises a period of two years. The
standard of qualifications for graduation is practically the same
in both courses. The shorter course is designed more particu-
larly for the accommodation of students who have passed the
age of 18 years and finished their collegiate studies, or attained
to a standard of educational proficiency satisfactory to the
authorities. A proper performance of the duties devolving
upon the students of this course leaves but little time for other
studies.
With the exception of collegiate graduates, whose general
education is presumably finished, all young men about to enter
upon the study of law should endeavor to take the three years’
course.
Knowing how comprehensive the study of law is, and how
available all branches of human knowledge may be made in its
practice, the officers of the University aim to afford law students
all reasonable and approved facilities in the work of qualifying
themselves for the legal profession. Consequently, students of
68
University of Notre Dame.
the elementary course may, without additional expense, enter
any of the classes and pursue the studies of any of the other
courses of the University.
Students who do not intend to practice law or become can-
didates for the degree of LL. B., but wish simply to complete
their education by adding to their acquirements a knowledge
of the fundamental principles of the law, may, at any proper
time during the year, have their names enrolled on the list of
students in the elementary class of this department. No
extra expense is thereby entailed. However, such students
must be sufficiently advanced in age and education to justify
the belief that they can understand and appreciate instruction
in the law. The number of such students is likely to increase
steadily, for year by year it is becoming more manifest that an
education is not complete without a knowledge of at least the
elementary principles of the law. Many a man in trade has
had to face financial ruin on account of want of acquaintance
with the fundamental legal principles. Many a person has, by
an inconsiderate act, due to his ignorance of the law, forfeited
claim to the protection of the court and the vindication of his
rights. Many a person has been compelled to do exactly the
contrary of what he intended through his failure to understand
the essential elements of a contract. Many a one has been
compelled to pay heavy damages for personal injuries caused
by negligence, or failure to perform a duty, or improper per-
formance of it, where no liability would exist if the “law of
torts"’ had been known and observed. As the law is over and
around every creature from the first moment of his being until
the grave closes upon him and his estate is settled, it would be
impossible to overestimate its utility and importance. Indeed,
there is no study that can at all compare with it in practical
utility, in training the mind to accuracy of observation, and in
strengthening the judgment and directing it to intelligent dis-
crimination in all secular affairs.
The Chief Methods of Instruction
in the Law Department consist in the delivery daily of lectures,
the study of standard elementary text-books, the analysis and
University of Notre Dame.
69
recitation, in substance at least, of the most important leading
cases, oral examinations daily and written examinations weekly,
the trial of actions at law and suits in equity in the Moot Court
and debates and exercises in public speaking at least once a
week.
One of the professors presides as judge of the Moot Court
and chairman of the society meetings. The Court is reg-
ularly organized, having the necessary officers, such as judge,
clerk, prosecuting attorney, sheriff, baliff, reporters, etc. Plead-
ings are filed and actions or suits begun in as close accordance
as practicable with the proceedings of the County, State and
Federal courts. Wednesday afternoon and Saturday evening
are devoted to Moot Court work and exercises in public
speaking.
Students take full notes of the lectures. These cover the
whole domain of the law and state the principles clearly and
tersely. They state what seem to be the correct or established
rules, and avoid perplexing contradictions. They are deemed
highly valuable, not only in preparing for examinations, but
also in subsequest practice, as the latest decisions are often
found cited in them.
In the “quiz” class it is sought by question and answer to
cover the whole ground of the law. Questions bearing upon
every branch and phase of it are put to the students during the
two or three years of their work, and almost necessarily they
become familiar, not only with them, but also with the proper
answers. Hence, the ground is covered: 1st, by the lectures;
2d, by the study of notes and the reading and analysis of impor-
tant decisions; 3d, by the study of the best elementary text-
books, lists of which can be had from the professors; 4th, by
the daily examinations or “ quizzes.” These “ quizzes ” are
exceptionally instructive and interesting. They are conducted
orally—in conversational style. They are not designed to puz-
zle or confuse the students. On the contrary, the aim is to
make everything clear and intelligible to them. Moreover, the
students are invited to ask the examiner for information upon
any and every topic that may seem in any way obscure.
The rise, organization and development of courts likewise
70
University of Notre Dame.
receive due attention. The common law and code methods of
beginning an action, filing the pleadings, joining issue, impan-
eling the jury, examining witnesses, applying the rules of evi-
dence, preparing instructions, receiving the verdict, moving for
a new trial, arguing the motion for it, taking the case to higher
courts on appeal, preparing the record, abstract and brief, and
doing all things necessary in the management of a trial, are
fully described and exemplified.
Matters that could not profitably be treated at length in the
lectures, with the requisite variety of illustrations and qualifica-
tions, are taken up and considered at “ quiz.” Hypothetical
cases involving the principles that students find it most diffi-
cult to master, are frequently submitted, analyzed and explained.
The questions and answers cover all the more important prin-
ciples stated in the notes, but the range of the “ quiz” is broader
in certain directions than the notes. Nothing is overlooked
which may legitimately be made the subject of a question in
the examination for admission to the bar. It is evidently due
in no small measure to this fact that the graduates of this
department have been so exceptionally successful in their
examinations. Certain it is that no law school in the country
has a more creditable record than Notre Dame in this regard.
However, the Supreme Court of Indiana has adopted a rule
providing for the admission of graduates of this department on
motion, or without examination. Under this rule they may
present themselves before the court and receive certificates of
admission to the bar. They are likewise admitted on motion
to the bar of the Federal courts. It is required, however, that
applicants for admission to the bar of this State shall be voters.
The Common Law
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the law generally
prevailing throughout the Union — the law that obtains in. the
states. It addresses itself to almost all the relations of life.
In fact, about nineteen out of every twenty cases tried in our
courts are decided in accordance with its principles. It is gen-
erally uniform in its operation. However, the statutory enact-
ments of state legislatures overcome and displace it, so far as

University of Notre Dame.
7i
they conflict with its provisions. These enactments differ
materially in different states, owing to unlike conditions and
local differences. Thus it is that the laws of certain states are
so radically unlike the laws of other states. Of course, there are
instances in which statutes are passed to cover acts and condi-
tions not provided for by the common law; but in most
instances the existing statutes declare, qualify or render inop-
erative some rules of the common law.
In view of these facts, thorough instruction is here given in
the common law. Neither lawyers nor judges pretend to know
the statutes of any other state than of that in which they prac-
tice or preside. In fact, a knowledge of the statutes of differ-
ent states would be more confusing and bewildering than pro-
fitable to judges, lawyers and students. In an examination for
admission to the bar in any state of the Union, no question is
put and nothing is said relative to the statutes of other states.
There are, however, certain fundamental statutory enactments
that exist without material diversity in their scope and purpose
in almost all the states. Again, other statutes somewhat less
important and fundamental in character exist in groups of
states. Such statutes as these may be profitably studied in
class, in connection with the common law; but it would be
worse than useless for a student to attempt to investigate and
study the mazes of statutory differences in the several states.
Hence, it is recommended as advisable for each senior student
or post-graduate to bring with him, when he comes here in
September to pursue the study of law, a copy of the revised
statutes of his own state or of the state in which he proposes
to practice.
In the Matter Expense,
no discrimination is made between law students and students of
the regular collegiate courses. The fee for board, lodging,
tuition, washing, mending, etc., is fixed at $300 for the scholastic
year. Terms of payment and other pertinent information may
be found under the head of expenses, page 20.
The students of Notre Dame enjoy immunity from the dis-
tractions and temptations of city life, and need incur no note-
worthy expenses, aside from those stated. They live in an
72
University of Notre Dame
atmosphere of study, and every incentive and feeling of emula-
tion aroused in them tends to the formation of studious habits.
Thus their work is rendered peculiarly effective. It has often
been demonstrated that nowhere else do students accomplish
more work in a given time. This fact is not to be overlooked
in considering the matter of expense. And, as tending to main-
tain this salutary state of things, the same rules of discipline
apply to all students.
Access may be had, at reasonable hours, not only to the
Lemonnier Library — the general one in the main building,
but also to the library of the Law Department. This contains
all the standard text-books and reports. Every decision ren-
dered for several years in the State, Territorial and Federal
courts maybe found in the Law Library. Consequently students
need purchase but few books. In this regard they are specially
favored, for in other law schools the item of books alone for
each student usually amounts to from $50 to $100.
Young men who desire to begin the study of law may be
matriculated as students of this department at any time during
the year. However, it is advisable to enter at the beginning of
the scholastic year, or as early as practicable in September.
Students in the graduating year are known as Seniors. The
others are called Juniors. All law students, whether Seniors
or Juniors, whose general education is sufficiently advanced,
are entitled to free rooms in Sorin Hall.
A Post-Grudate Course
has also been established. Graduates in law may return at
any time and enter upon the studies of this course. By
devoting a year to the work prescribed they become entitled
to the degree of Master of Laws. The course of instruction
consists mainly in the analytical study and writing of pleadings,
the examination of witnesses, moot court work, the taking of
depositions, the trial of actions at law and suits in equity, the
practical application of the rules of evidence, the preparation
of briefs and arguments, the study of leading cases, practice
from time to time in what is popularly called “office work,”
daily participation in the exercises of the “quiz class,” a com-
University of Notre Dame.	73
parative study of the legislation of different countries, and the
influence of the civil law upon the development of modern
jurisprudence. It is believed that the student who finishes this
course and reads carefully the revised statutes of his State may
regard himself as reasonably well qualified to enter at once
upon the practice of law.
Every student who is a candidate for the degree of Bachelor
of Laws or Master of Laws is required to write, at least six
weeks before graduation,
A Thesis
upon some topic selected by himself. It should not be less
than 50 folios in length. The writer is expected to read the
thesis at a special meeting of the class and to defend the
propositions he sets forth. Having read and defended it suc-
cessfully, he places it in the hands of the Dean, whose approval
it must have. If it be not meritorious in matter, form and style,
he may forfeit the right to graduation until the following year
and the-submission by him of a satisfactory thesis. '
In Conclusion
it may be stated that nowhere can the study of law be more
profitably pursued than at Notre Dame. The diligent student
may here qualify himself to pass the most rigid examination in
any State. He may lay broad and deep the foundation of his
legal knowledge and fit himself to become proficient in the
profession and worthy of its honors.
Students here have a decided advantage over those of some
other law schools, in that they are not so numerous as to make
the classes unwieldy and cumbersome. It is hardly noticed
in some places who does or who does not attend class, and
the relative standing of students is often quite unknown to the
professors. And so numerous are they that thebooks of a vast
library would be inadequate for their use. A score of them
may desire to refer to and read the same book at the same
time. Taking moot court cases in turn, they can hardly try
before the professors more than one or two in a year. They
may not be required each to answer on an average more than
one question a week. They receive little or no practical
74
University of Notre Dame.
instruction. Left almost wholly to themselves in the choice of
methods of study, it is not remarkable that there should be an
absence of system in the work they do; nor is it singular that
many of them fail to make substantial progress and qualify
themselves to undergo successfully a rigid examination for
admission to the bar. Such evils almost inevitably attend the
work of instructing a very large and undisciplined class.
Law students at Notre Dame have none of these evils to
contend against. Here each student comes frequently in con-
tact with the professors and becomes personally known to them.
He is directed and aided in his work. Heis requiredj:o attend
class regularly and to conform in his deportment to the pre-
scribed rules of discipline — rules essential to the formation of
methodical habits and a manly character. These rules tend to
fortify his will power and impress upon him the importance of
self-control in all the relations of life. Thus he may be strength-
ened at every weak point. Thus he may be rounded out into
symmetrical and useful manhood. Thus may his character be
formed in the mould of honor and impressed with the noble
traits and admirable qualities of gentleman, scholar and lawyer.
University of Notre Dame.
75
Commercial Course.
This course can be completed in two years. It includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United States
history, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-keeping,
Commercial Law — in other words all the branches of a com-
plete business education.
When the character and needs of the country are considered,
this course will appear the most practical, and one of the most
important that .an educational institution can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to take a
complete college course, in the Classics and Sciences, would do
well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No plan
of study is more injudicious than a hap-hazard selection of such
studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy. The train-
ing resulting from a fixed course of studies is of the utmost
benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has ahvays received
the most careful attention from the officers and the Commercial
Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims to give the
graduates of this course a more complete business training than
can be obtained in any purely commercial college. Believing
that a business education includes something more than a mere
knowledge of book-keeping, and that a good education cannot
be obtained in a few weeks, the authorities have extended this
course over two years — the shortest time in which studies
necessarily used in business life can be mastered. Should a
pupil desire during this period to pursue any other studies in
which he may be interested, and for which he has time, he will
have liberty to do so. General History and Linear Drawing
are especially recommended to commercial students. They
also have the opportunity of attending an elementary course
of the Physical and Natural Sciences. Many commercial
students find it also to their advantage to take up the study of
German or French, for which there are the amplest facilities.
7$
University of Notre Dame.
A talented and studious young man may thus in the course of
two years find himself in the possession of a most valuable
practical education, which will fit him to take his place in the
front rank of educated business men.
Junior Year
Both Terms.
1.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Year Preparatory
of Classical Course.
2.	Grammar and Letter-Writing—Same as in First Year Preparatory of
Classical Course.
3.	Geography—The matter included in both Terms of Collegiate Prepara-
tory Course.—Sadlier.
4.	United States History—The matter included in both Terms of Colle-
giate Preparatory Course.—Sadlier.
5.	Reading and Orthography.
6.	Penmanship.
Senior Year
First Term.
I.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—Same as in First Term of Second
Year Preparatory of Classical Course.
2.	Composition.
3.	Orthography.
4.	Book-keeping—Theory and Practice—Initiatory Sets by Double Entry.
Second Term.
1.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental, Completed—Same as in Second Term
of Second Year Preparatory.
2.	Composition.
3.	Orthography.
4.	Book-keeping—Banking, Railroading, Steamboating, etc.
5.	Commercial Law.
6.	Penmanship.
Optional Studies — Phonography, Telegraphy, Typewrit-
ing, General History and Linear Drawing.
University of Notre Dame.	77
The routine of study in the course of Book-keeping embraces
the following, the whole being completed in one scholastic year:
Preparatory Instructions and Definitions; Initiatory Sets by
Double Entry; 1st Series, embracing the Buying and Selling
of Merchandise on Private Account; 2d Series, on Account of
Others; 3d Series, Buying and Selling the same on Joint
Account; 4th Series, Importing and Exporting on Private
Account, on Account of Others, and on Account of Ourselves
and Others in Company; 5th Series, Receiving and Forwarding
Merchandise, the Management and Settlement of Executors’
Accounts, Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting, Discount-
ing, Accepting and Paying Bills of Exchange, Banking —
Private and Joint Stock—Steamboating, Railroading, Retailing
by Double Entry, Farming, Mechanics’ Accounts. Saturdays
are devoted to Commercial Law. Particular attention is paid
to the explanation of the Law of Negotiable Paper.
78
University of Notre Dame.
Modern Languages.
German
FIRST YEAR.
First Term.
1. First German Book—Rudiments of the German Language.—Ahn-Henn,
2. Exercises in Reading, Penmanship and Orthography.
Second Term.
1.	Second German Book—Ahn Henn.
2.	Exei cise in Reading and Written Translations.
SECOND YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Third German Book.—Alin-Henn.
2.	First German Reader.—Ahn-Henn.
3.	Written Exercises.
Second Term.
1.	Third German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn. ’
2.	First German Reader.—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
3.	Written Exercises.
THIRD YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Fourth German Book—Ahn-Henn.
2.	German Grammar—Part First.—Joynes-Meissner.
3.	Written Exercises—Selected.
Second Term.
1.	Fourth German Book—Completed.—Ahn-Henn.
2.	Deutsches Lesebuch—First Part.—Bone.
3.	German Grammar—Part Second.—Joynes-Meissner.
4.	Written Exercises—Selected.
FOURTH YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Deutsches Lesebuch—Second Part.—Bone.
2.	Schiller’s William Tell—Three Acts.—Whitney.
3.	German Composition.
4.	Selections from Schiller’s Lyrical Poems.—Turner.
University of Notre Dame.
79
Second Term.
1.	Schiller’s William Tell—Completed.— ’Whitney.
2.	German Composition.
3.	Introduction to German Literature.
4.	Deutsches Lesebuch-Poetischer Teil.—Bone.
N. B.—In the first two years the English, and in the last two
the German language, is employed as the medium of instruction.
French.
FIRST YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Progressive French Course—Part First.
2.	Progressive French Reader—Part First.
3.	Orthography.
Second Term.
1.	Elementary Grammar.
2.	Progressive French Reader.—To the End.
3.	Exercises in Grammar.
SECOND YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Synthetic French Grammar.
2.	La Fontaine’s Select Fables.
3.	Translation, Composition and Conversation.
Second Term.
1.	Synthetic French Grammar.
2.	Sandeau’s Mademoiselle de la Seiglier.—Warren.
3.	Fortier’s Sept Grands Auteurs du XIXE Seicle.
4.	History of French Literature—Lectures.
5.	Exercises in Grammar, Composition and Idioms.
THIRD YEAR.
First Term.
1.	Grammaire Francaise.— Noel et Ghapsal.
2.	Litterature Classique.—Lectures.
3.	Discours sur le style.—Buffon.
4.	Telemaque.—Nasquelle.
Second Term.
1.	Grammaire Francaise.—Noel et Ghapsal.
2.	Characteres.—La Bruy ere.
3.	Lamartine’s Meditations.—Gurme.
4.	Litterature Classique—Lectures.
5.	Exercises in Composition and Idioms.
N. B.—The'Third Year’s Course is conducted chiefly in French.
8o
University of Notre Dame.
Miscellaneous.
Physical and Natural Sciences.
Notre Dame has always given special attention to the culti-
vation of the Physical and Natural Sciences, but during the
past few years, extra efforts have been made in this direction,
with a view of affording to her students all the facilities and
advantages that may be found in the best equipped scientific
schools. A large and commodious building, in the Romanesque
style, known as “Science Hall,” has been erected for this pur-
pose, and it is the intention of the authorities to make it as per-
fect in all its appointments as any similar institution in the
country. It is one hundred and thirty-one feet long by one
hundred and four feet deep, and proportionally high. There
are upwards of twenty-five spacious, well lighted and ventilated
rooms in the building, nearly all of which are designed either
as lecture rooms or laboratories for the various branches of
experimental science.
The building has been carefully planned for the purpose to
which it is appropriated, and embodies in its construction, all
the improvements and conveniences to be found in the most
approved scientific structures of this country and Europe.
Special efforts have been made to render the building conven-
ient for both the professor and the student.
The laboratories, lecture-rooms, and cabinets are so con-
nected with one another, and with the grand apartments set
aside for the museum, that specimens and apparatus are always
at hand when desired, and where they can be used. The
students of Natural History have their specimens systematically
arranged in rooms adjoining their laboratories, whilst the
students of Chemistry and Physics have their cabinets conven-
iently near, and at the same time, independent of each other,
owing to the peculiar plan of the building. The various classes
can enter the rooms and laboratories without interfering in any
way with one another, and can continue their studies and
University of Notre Dame.
8i
experiments without interuption. The general principles of
science are taught by lectures, and these are supplemented by
practical work in the various laboratories.
In Chemistry and Physics the necessary apparatus is at the
disposal of the student, and he is expected to verify, by obser-
vation and experiment, what has not been experimentally illus-
trated in the lectures he has attended.
The cabinets of the Physical laboratory contain many fine
pieces of apparatus. For the illustration of sound phenomena,
there are a Scott Koenig phonautograph, a Mercadier radio-
phone, a large set of electrically operated tuning forks with
resonaters, by Koenig, a wave siren and a large collection of
organ pipes of various types and sizes.
For the study of radiant heat there is an elaborate Melloni-
Tyndall apparatus with thermopiles and sensitive galvanometer.
There is an exceptionally fine cathetometer, a dividing engine
and a break circuit chronograph.
In the department of light there are several horizontal and
vertical projectors with electric arc light and a lime light stere-
optican with a large collection of slides. There is a complete
apparatus for the study of polarization, several fine spectro-
scopes, Rowland diffraction gratings and a number of lenses
and curved mirrors.
In all these departments as well as in those of Physics and
Chemistry, special stress will be laid on practical work, and a
student’s proficiency will be estimated by his record of observa-
tion and experiment in the laboratory and workshop.
In the study of Botany, Zoology and Physiology, each
student is provided with a microscope and the necessary access-
ories, and most of his time is spent in microscopic study under
the direction of the Professor.
In Geology and Mineralogy the system is the same. The
student commences work in the laboratory at once, and thus
early becomes acquainted with the various minerals, rocks,
fossils, etc. The blowpipe, microscope, polariscope and cli-
nometer are in constant use to verify what has been learned in
the lecture room, and to fix it on the memory.
A Photographic laboratory is also fitted up in the building,
82	University of Notre Dame.
where the student is enabled to learn, practically and in a short
time, the art of modern Photography, and thus prepare himself
for professional work in the studio.
Rooms have likewise been set aside for Assaying and Met-
allurgy, and it is the purpose of those in charge to leave noth-
ing undone to make the work in this department compare
favorably with that accomplished in the others.
Additions of apparatus, specimens and books for reference
are constantly being made to the various departments, and no
effort will be spared to make “ Science Hall” a recognized cen-
ter of thorough work in genuine practical science.
Institute of Technology.
This building has been erected on the most approved plans,
after a study of the best institutions of the kind at home and
abroad. In size it is 109 feet long by 40 feet wide and three
stories high. Convenience, ventilation and an abundance of
light are provided for in all the rooms.
In the department of Mechanical Engineering, there are
fully equipped workshops for wood and metals. Steam engines
and dynamo-electric generators and motors of various types
and sizes furnish the power required, and afford the students
special facilities in making experiments concerning the various
forms of energy.
Those who do not take the course of Engineering may, if
recommended by the Director of Studies, enter the shops for a
course in manual training, or for the purpose of acquiring skill in
practical mechanics. Languages.
It is the desire of the authorities of the University of Notre
Dame to promote the study of the foreign languages, the use
of which is so necessary for business or scientific purposes.
The German language—the classes of which are so numer-
ously attended—has been taught by four instructors during the
present scholastic year. The number of students attending the
German classes is becoming greater every year. The study of
French is recommended to all students of the Collegiate Course.
The course of Spanish will receive special attention in the future,
and other modern languages may be taught when required.
University of Notre Dame.	83
Telegraphy and Typewriting.
Telegraphy invites the special attention of the students of
the Commercial and Scientific courses; and a knowledge of
Typewriting, which can be acquired in a short time, is useful
and valuable for all.
For the Telegraphic department a special room is provided
and equipped with standard line instruments, including a com-
plete Wheatstone bridge set for electrical measurement. Instruc-
tion is given by an experienced, practical operator. Each stu-
dent receives individual attention and is urged to make as rapid
progress as possible. The text-book used is Abnethy’s “ Com-
mercial Railway Telegraphy.”
In the Typewriting department the machines in use are new
Remingtons, with the latest improvements. Thorough instruc-
tion is given in the manipulation and care of the machine, in
the correct forms of business letters, law work, essays and gen-
eral writing.
Phonography, or Shorthand,
is of very great assistance to those in the higher classes, enabling
its possessor to take verbatim notes of lectures, etc. It is adapt-
able to the English, French, German or Spanish languages.
With a good English education it is a profession in itself, and
one not likely to be overcrowded for years to come. First-class
stenographers and typewriters are always sure of employment,
and pupils in both branches here find every facility to fit them
for the highest grade of practical work.	K
Phonography and Typewriting have, of late, come into gen-
eral use in legal and commercial work—in the court, the law
office and the counting-room, in business offices, banks, insur-
ance and railroad offices, etc.—and, for first-class stenographers
especially, the demand exceeds the supply. A knowledge of
these useful arts will, therefore, prove a strong recommendation
for confidential and lucrative positions.
Elocution.
No educational institution in the country surpasses Notre
Dame in the facilities afforded to the students for acquiring pro-
84
University of Notre Dame.
ficiency in elocution. The instruction is thorough, the exer-
cises are practical, and the subjects of study exhibit judicious
variety. These exercises are held in St. Cecilia Hall, which is
peculiarly adapted for the purpose, being conveniently situated,
large and elegantly furnished. The exercises constitute an
important part in the studies of young men who strive to culti-
vate, wuth success, literature, oratory and the dramatic art. The
approved methods of stimulating and developing the natural
elocutionary powers are called into requisition as occasion
seems to warrant. To this end, the drama receives a due share
of attention; from time to time, an appropriate tragedy or com-
edy is rendered by students, on the stage of Washington Hall,
with all the customary accessories and appointments used in
,connection with performances. Four public exhibitions are
given during the year, and public literary exercises are held
several times during the same period. An oratorical contest is
one of the notable features marking the close of the year. For
the purpose of encouraging and stimulating students to put
forth their best efforts, premiums and gold medals are offered
to those who most distinguish themselves. When all these
things are duly considered, there need be no hesitation in
repeating that no educational institution in the country sur-
passes Notre Dame in the facilities offered to students for
acquiring proficiency in elocution.
Lecture and Concert Course.
Prominent among the educational advantages enjoyed by
the students of the University, is the course of public lectures
and concerts, which supplement the regular class work.
The University is careful to secure only the best speakers
and musical attractions, and in the past it has been uniformly
successful in keeping up to the highest standard of excellence.
It is the aim of those in charge of the course to secure the
services of the leading thinkers and educators as well as the
most distinguished artists of the day.
Drawing.
This department occupies well-lighted rooms on the fourth
floor of the main building. The instruction begins with free-
University of Notre Dame.	85
hand drawing, flat and shaded copies in pencil, charcoal and
pen, and object drawing in geometrical figures.
The use of drawing instruments is begun early in the course?
and ample practice is given in drawing accurately, a number of
plates illustrating problems in Mechanical Engineering. The
principles of projection drawing, descriptive geometry and
linear perspective are taught in their order. Detail sketches
are made from various machines, the object of which is to give
the student a general idea of machine parts and the methods of
putting them together. Tinting, line shading, shading in water
colors, tracing and blue-printing receive their share of attention.
The department is amply equipped with models for charcoal
and crayon drawings, plaster casts of ornaments, flowers, fruits,
classic busts and statues. Pen drawing for illustration, and
sketching from nature are two of the most popular courses
offered.
Music.
The department is complete in all its appointments. It has
efficient Professors and is divided into classes on the regular
conservatory system. An orchestra of twenty pieces and a brass
band of twenty-six instruments, are some of the leading features
of the department of Instrumental Music.
Vocal Music, to which special attention has been paid, and
which has contributed so much to the pleasure of the students
during the past few years, will receive even more careful atten-
tion in future, and it is hoped that this branch will become
every year more popular.
Reading Rooms.
The lower floor of Music Hall is divided into large and
neatiy furnished Reading Rooms for the benefit of the students
of Brownson and Carroll Halls. These reading rooms are sup-
plied with books and periodicals from the library, and students
have access to them during the hours of recreation.
The Lemonnier Library
continues to receive contributions from liberal friends, and now
numbers over 50,000 volumes. A reading room has been opened
86
University of Notre Dame.
in connection with the library, in which the leading periodicals
of Europe and America are to be found on file. The members
of the Library Association desire to give their Alma Mater a
collection of books that can stand comparison with those pos-
sessed by any other educational establishment in the United
States; therefore they call on the friends of the University to
assist them by donations of books pamphlets, periodicals and
manuscripts. All contributions should be addressed to the
Librarian of the Lemonnier Library, Notre Dame University,
Notre Dame, Ind.
University of Notre Dame.
8/
Sorin Hall.
Sorin Hall is a commodious building recently erected for
the use of advanced students. It is situated a short distance
southwest of the church. Facing east, it is on a line with
Science Hall, from which it is separated by an extensive green
sward and beautiful grove. It is a three-story and basement
building, and presents a very attractive appearance. In its ■
construction, special attention was paid to sanitary conditions,
and every apartment and hall is well lighted and ventilated.
During the day, sunshine visits every room in the building.
All the recent improvements in architecture were considered
and discriminatingly introduced in constructing and complet-
ing Sorin Hall and arranging its interior with reference to the
convenience of the inmates. It contains a large number of rooms
for the use of students, besides several apartments intended for
other purposes. Each of the students’ rooms is supplied with
a 16-candle electric light and heated by steam in cold weather.
This building has its own furnace and heating apparatus, and
its own dynamo or electric-light plant. All its arrangements
are suggestive of the conveniences and comforts of a home.
The basement is divided into a reading-room, where the
student finds all the late magazines, both American and foreign;
a large apartment designed for recreation purposes at suitable
times, bath-rooms, etc.
On the first floor, at either side of the main entrance, are
two suits of elegant rooms for offices and chambers. The large
apartment at the north end of the building is used as a chapel,
and here the students assemble morning and evening for prayer.
The Law department, with its library, lecture room, moot court
room, etc., is at the south end.
The second and third floors are uniform in arrangement and
similar in appearance. Here are the rooms that the students
occupy. All of them are regularly numbered and neatly fur-
nished; and there is not one of them that does not command
an extended and beautiful view. They serve as chambers for
young men at night and study rooms during the day. Each
88
University of Notre Dame.
room has but one occupant. Thus it is sought to insure a
proper and valuable use of time by all. This same considera-
tion has led the college authorities to prohibit the inmates of
Sorin Hall from calling on one another, or visiting the rooms
of others during the hours appointed for study. While not at
class, nor at meals, nor engaged in taking necessary recreation
upon the campus, students are supposed to be at work in their
rooms, although at suitable times they may meet in the reading
room or recreation apartment. This building is intended for
earnest and well-disposed students, who desire to make the best
possible use of their time; and the rules prescribed for its
inmates are practically in harmony with the regular standard
of living to which young men of that class seek to conform.
For these, the rules will be found very simple and easy of
observance. For others there can be no relaxation of them.
The penalty for the violation of any of them consists in the
forfeiture, by the offender, of his room and the privileges of
Sorin Hall. Where the offense is gross, the forfeiture is per-
manent; but where relieved by mitigating circumstances, it may
be only temporary.
The rules governing students at Sorin Hall are found liberal
enough by all who earnestly desire to work, to be manly and
honorable, to be temperate and industrious, to be pure in speech
and above reproach in conduct. But for such as do not seek
to conform to that standard in the general tenor of their lives,
or do not endeavor to square their actions in accordance with
it, the discipline will soon be found sufficiently stringent to
prevent their remaining as inmates of the building.
The advanced students referred to as entitled to quarters at
Sorin Hall comprise young men of the Senior and Junior years,
in the Classical, Scientific, or any other regular course of the
University curriculum. When a student has attained to that rank
in educational proficieney, whether he has studied here or else-
where, he is entitled, without extra charge, to a room and to the
privileges of Sorin Hall. There he may remain until he finishes,
or as long afterwards as he wishes, should he desire to pursue
post-graduate studies. The same rule applies to students
of the Junior and Senior year, or to post-graduates, who desire
to study law.
University of Notre Dame.
89
Minim Department.
For the care and training of boys under the age of thirteen,
there has been established a department to which the most
scrupulous attention has always been paid by the college
authorities; it is known as the Minim Department, and it has
always been one of the greatest objects of interest to the Faculty
as well as all persons visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the elementary
branches of an English. education is here imparted, together
with a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French and German.
Vocal Music and Drawing form no extra charge. The pupils
of this department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross,
under whose maternal care they pass nearly the entire day.
Discipline.
The following is the order of the day. Rising at 6:40 a. m.,
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short time
given for exercises on the campus; half-past seven, study; half-
past nine, recreation and lunch; ten, study; a quarter to twelve,
toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-past one,
study; half-past three, recreation and lunch; half-past six,
supper and recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it
may be seen that while the Minims devote never less than six
hours a day to study, they are never more than two hours in
succession in the class-room. The recreation and exercise in
the fresh air between each two hours of study, unbend the
mind and prepare the boys to return to their classes refreshed
and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the hours
of recreation as well as in the class-room and study hall. The
presence, however, of the Prefect is far from being a restraint
on the amusement of the boys; for while it is the duty of the
Prefects to insist that their young charges shall always keep
within the limits of the strictest propriety, they, at the same
time, take part in all sports, organize games, and do everything
in their power to foster the love of healthful exercises. The
play grounds consist of a fine, level, five-acre field, well supplied
90
University of Notre Dame.
with turning poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all
other necessary gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make
good use of them can best be seen from their healthy, happy
appearance, which invariably attracts the notice of visitors.
Connected with the play ground is a brick play-hall, 160 feet
long, and heated by steam. In this hall the boys plain in rainy
or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the
clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and con-
venience of the Minims. Baths are taken every Saturday.
Underclothing is changed regularly once a week. Great care
is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the clothing
be suitable for the season.
Societies.
There are two societies in the Minim department; that of the
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its object to
supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin Associa-
tion, which has been established with a view to give the pupils
a start, as early possible, in elocution. The society is presided
over by one of the professors, who find it a pleasant duty to
draw out the talent of these interesting young orators. Meet-
ings are held once a week, after school hours. These meetings
are a source of pleasure as well as of profit. The members
prepare original compositions, deliver declamations, are trained
to debate, etc. Only the best behaved and more advanced in
studies are admitted to membership. To encourage this young
Literary Society, a Gold Medal is annually awarded at Com-
mencement for Elocution to be the most deserving member.
General Remarks.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much
milder than that which is suited to students more advanced in
age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those in
charge endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness, and by
appealing to the boys’ sense of honor. The names of all whose
conduct and application to studies are satisfactory appear under
the heads of Roll of Honor and Class Honors in the Scholastic,
a journal published weekly at Notre Dame. To find his name
University of Notre Dame.
9i
mentioned in these rolls, is found to be as great a reward for
the deserving pupil, as its non-appearance is a punishment for
the undeserving.
Then, again, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to those whose deportment has been unexcep-
tionable during that period. As this fact is made known to the
Minim immediately after his entrance, he generally endeavors
to shape his conduct with a view to receiving an “Honor.”
The greatest care is taken to form their young hearts to habits
of virtue, and to inculcate the practice of refined manners.
Every effort is made to foster respect and affection for parents,
to whom they are expected to write, at least, once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is
their complete separation from the larger students. An elegant
and commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, afford-
ing ample accommodations for over one hundred pupils, is
devoted to their use. It is four stories in height, one hundred
and fifty feet long, and forty-five feet wide; heated by steam,
supplied throughout with the Edison incandescent electric
light, and provided with hot and cold water. The ceilings in
Study Hall, Class Rooms, and sleeping apartment are fifteen
feet high. The windows are large and numerous, affording
abundant light and ventilation. The Study Hall commands a
charming view from each of its eleven large windows. It is
tastefully decorated with statuary, pictures, choice plants,
beautiful flower baskets, etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims
derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall, their habits
and tastes are cultured by coming in contact with objects so
refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park, which,
with its sparkling fountain, rare trees and flowers, adds not a
little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well as to the happi-
ness of its inmates.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents and
others, who frequently write for more detailed information, will
show that, while the Minims have every possible advantage to
aid them in acquiring a good, solid education, they have also a •
most happy home, where they enjoy the same ease and freedom
that they would enjoy under the care of their mothers.
92
University of Notre Dame.
Expenses.
Matriculation Fee, payable on first entrance, -	-	$ 10 00
Board, Tuition, etc., per session of ten months, -	- 250 00
THE ABOVE RATES ARE PAYABLE
IN ADVANCE, AS FOLLOWS:
On Entrance in September, -	-	-	S150 00
January 15th,	______	100 00
EXTRAS OPTIONAL.
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons, and
the use of instrument in this department is $25.00; for Violin,
Guitar or Mandolin, $15.00.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40.00.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if not paid
within ten days after they have been rendered.
Each pupil, on entering this department, should have six
shirts, four pairs of drawers, four night shirts, twelve pocket
handkerchiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pairs of shoes, two suits of clothes for winter, two
suits for summer, one overcoat, toilet articles, etc.
University of Notre Dame
93
Catalogue of Students
From September, 1896, to June, 1897.
In this list are not included the names of those students
who were dismissed or withdrawn at the request of the College
authorities during the scholastic year.
Armijo, Justo L..........................New	Mexico.
Arizpe, Hipolito C...........................Mexico.
Abercrombie John J........................Illinois.
Abrahams, Louis L.........................Illinois.
Allyn, Arthur................................Illinois-
Arnold, Charles W..........................Indiana.
Atkinson, John W..........................Illinois.
Arce, Julius A...........................Peru, S. A.
Atherton, Chester H.......................Illinois.
Abrahams, George..........................Illinois.
Armijo, Ricardo M........................New	Mexico.
Armijo, Pedro J..........................New	Mexico.
Alexander, James M............................Ohio.
Beardslee, Lou.s B...
Becker, Alphonse M.
Berger, Elmer.........
Breslin, Francis D...
Burke, Elmer W ....
Burns, Thomas D....
Bebout, Silverton....
Brand, Leslie.........
Bump, Alexander J..
Beardslee, George C..
Bode, Charles H.......
Bode, Francis J.......
Bosworth, Alva C ...
Butler, Thomas J....
Burton, Lester........
Blanchfield, Walter J
Barry, James B........
Bennett, Hunter M ..
Brennen, Edward E..
Bryan, Charles M. B.
........Ohio.
... . Minnesota.
....Indiana.
Pennsylvania.
....Illinois.
. .New Mexico.
....Indiana.
....Indiana.
....Illinois.
....Ohio.
....Illinois.
. -.Illinois.
....Illinois.
....Ohio.
....Michigan.
....Illinois.
....Illinois.
West Virginia.
....Indiana.
.... Tennessee.
94
University of Notre Dame.
Browne, James H......................... Massachusetts
Bvrne, James M...............................Illinois.
Barthel. George..............................New	York.
Boerner, Andrew..................................Ohio.
Bo}le, Joseph P...............................Alabama.
Buse, Edward L...................................Ohio.
Boylan, William..............................Michigan.
Benson, Charles A..........................Rhode	Island.
Brogan, Anthony A.............................Indiana.
Browne, James W..................................Iowa.
Berry, William A.............................Missouri.
Berry, James E...............................Missouri.
Brown, Robert E .................................Iowa.
Brown, Edward C..................................Iowa.
Burke, John 0................................Illinois.
Baab, Charles J..........................Pennsylvania.
Blanchard, Claude L..............................Iowa.
Brucker, S. Joseph..........................Wisconsin.
Barry, Robert E..............................Illinois.
Bouwens, Seraphine F.........................Illinois.
Boze, Harry E ...............................Illinois.
Baloun, Joseph A.................................Ohio.
Bennett, James..............................New York.
Bommersbach, John N..........................Illinois.
Brooks, Don M................................Illinois.
Cline, John R................................Illinois.
Crawford, A. Roy...............................Kansas.
Crowdus, Charles H...........................Missouri.
Cavanaugh, Thomas E...........................   Ohio.
Corby, Joseph E............................. Missouri.
Carney, Alexander R.........................Wisconsin.
Campbell, Eugene...........................  Missouri.
Cypher, George A.........................Pennsylvania.
Cuneo, John B................................Illinois.
Crowley, William E............................Montana.
Cullinane, Wilson H..........................Illinois.
Conway, James M..................................Iowa.
Collins, Edward D.......................Massachusetts.
Casey, Albert B.............................New York.
Cavanaugh, John J................................Ohio.
Casparis, Kenneth E....................'.........Ohio.
Clark, Robert................................Illinois.
Cotter, Percy V..............................Illinois.
Cowie, George................................Illinois.
Coquillard, Joseph A..........................Indiana.
University of Notre Dame.
95
Cressey, Clement G-.............................Indiana.
Cunnea, Jolin J................................Illinois.
Craig, Harry A................................. Indiana.
Coyne, Claude A...................................Texas.
Chambers, Robert...............................Michigan.
Corley, John L.................................Missouri.
Clifford, Jeremiah..............................Indiana.
Curran, Robert P...............................Michigan.
Carlton, Joseph R..............................New	Jersey.
Cullinan, Joseph................................Ireland.
Crepau, William O...............................Indiana.
Crepau, Frederick N.............................Indiana.
Corr, John F...................................New	York.
Cavanagh, Thomas T.............................Illinois.
Costello, Martin J ............................Illinois.
Confer, Francis J F........................Pennsylvania.
Crilly, Edgar..................................Illinois.
Cornell, Francis B ...........................New York.
Condon, Michael J............................ Tennessee.
Condon, Thomas P............................. Tennessee.
Corby, Clarence I<.............................Missouri.
Coquillard, Alexis..............................Indiana.
Cowie, Gordon R................................Illinois.
Curry, Joseph P...............................Minnesota.
Curtis, Patrick A..............................Illinois.
Conklin, Roscoe P..............................Illinois.
Crawford, Allan P .............................Illinois.
Darst, Ed dens J.....
Dellone, Francis X ...
Davidson, Alfred H ..
Devine, Mark A........
Dinnen, William F...
Druiding, Francis X.
Drejer, Stanislaus P .
Dugas, Ernest L......
Delaney, James M....
Dreher, Francis P ...
Duperier, Alfred J...
Davies, Boaz C.......
Dukette, Francis F...
Dowd, John J.........
Daly, Michael T ....
Duffy, Peter.........
Donovan, John C......
Daly, John F.........
.........Illinois.
.Pennsylvania.
.Texas.
.Illinois.
....Indiana.
....Illinois.
....Indiana.
AVashington, D. C.
.....Illinois.
.Michigan.
....Louisiana.
....Arkansas.
......Michigan.
......Illinois.
......New Jersey.
.... Pennsylvania.
......Minnesota.
.... South Dakota.
96
University of Notre Dame.
Dooley, Thomas J...............................Illinois.
Desmond, William J.................................Iowa.
Ducey, John V..........................,.......Colorado.
Detmer, Edward C...............................Illinois.
Davis, Harry M.................................  .Idaho.
Dixon, Samuel D.................................New	York.
Davis, Grover C............................Indiana.
Dorian, James..............................Indiana.
Dugas, Graham.......................Washington,	D. C.
Dougherty, Philip	F.	H..................Louisiana.
Dessauer, Walter J.	P.....................Illinois.
Dalton, Patrick J............................Kentucky.
Darron, Andrew................................Indiana.
DeLorimier, Arthur G..........................Indiana.
DeWulf, Emil..................................Florida.
Dwan, Patrick J..............................Illinois.
Doherty, Philip........................Pennsylvania.
Dwyer, Vincent D..............................Indiana.
Dwyer, Francis J..............................Indiana.
Dorian, Francis P.............................Indiana.
Dillon, John A__
Dominguez, Rafael
Delaney, Eugene A
Dulin, Henry M...
... .Michigan.
.....Mexico.
Pennsylvania.
.....Illinois.
Ebbert, Francis E..............................Illinois.
Engelman, Henry B..............................Illinois.
Ervin, John B...................................Indiana.
Edgarton, Allen J..............................Illinois.
Elitch, Charles J............................California.
Elliott, Edwin E..............................Wisconsin.
Ellwanger, Ralph J.................................Iowa.
Ernst, Emile J.................................... Ohio.
Ellis, Joel M..................................Illinois.
Ellison, Joseph E...............................Indiana.
Fennessey, John F......................Massachusetts.
Flynn, Thomas J.............................Colorado.
Foley, Charles.E............................Illinois.
Fox, Alvin J.....................................Illinois.
Fish, Leonard A..................................Illinois.
Fish, Alvin L....................................Illinois.
Funk, Robert S..................................Wisconsin.
Frank, LeRoy A...................................Illinois.
Friedman, Arthur.................................Illinois.
Fleming, Henry J.............................  .Tennessee.
University of Notre Dame.	97
Fetter, Thomas R..............................Kentucky.
Freeman, Noel L........ .......................Indiana.
Frost, AV. Barrett............................Missouri.
Field, Henry J................................Illinois.
Frain, Francis J...............................Indiana.
Fredell, George..................................Idaho.
Fenton, James..................................Indiana.
Fitzpatrick, William W...........................Texas.
Fagan, William A...............................New	York.
Fetherstone, Louis M..............................Iowa.
Fadeley, Lew E.................................Indiana.
Fitzgerald, Oscar T...........................Illinois.
Foster, Harry P...............................Illinois.
Fox, Robert L .................................Indiana.
Flannigan, Charles P.........................Minnesota.
Follen, Peter E................................Indiana.
Foulks, Charles M ..............................Kansas.
Fehr, Andrew F..............................  Kentucky.
Fitzgerald, Bernard G-.........................Indiana.
Farrell, John R.................................. Ohio.
Franey, Robert F..............................Illinois.
Flannigan, Michael J.........................Minnesota.
Falvey, Edward B............................  Missouri.
Fischer, Joseph B.............................Illinois.
Fleming, Charles F...........................Tennessee.
Funk, Charles D................................Indiana.
Fleischer, Oscar F............................Illinois.
Grady, William P..............................Illinois.
Garza, Rodolfa M................................Mexico.
Garza, Carlo de la...............................Texas.
Gilbert, Edward J.............................Illinois.
Gilmartin, Edward T............................Indiana.
Guilfoyle, William A..........................Illinois.
Guerra, Enrique L...............................Mexico.
Gray, Homer H.....................................Ohio.
Gray, Charles H...............................Illinois.
Gallagher, Hugh...............................Nebraska.
Garski, Marcell inns...........................Arizona.
Geoghegan, Walter M........................... New	York.
Golden, Walter B..........................Pennsylvania.
Gimbel, Eugene A..............................Missouri.
Girsch, Charles N.............................Illinois.
Gonzalez, Seraphine N..........................Florida.
Grossart, Charles C............................Indiana.
Garrity, L. McNellis..........................Illinois.
98	University of Notre Dame.
Graham, Belford L............................. Indiana.
Griffith, Jessie L........................... Illinois.
Garrity, Leo J................................Illinois.
Gibson, Norwood R.............................Illinois.
Hall, Wallace W.............................. Illinois.
Hart, Lawrence A...............................Indiana.
Hubbard, Lee G................................Illinois.
Hearne, Edward A..............................Illinois.
Hawkins, Burchard G............................Indiana.
Hoban, Maurice J...............................Indiana.
Houck, Linn A...................................Oregon.
Hagerty, John?.................................Indiana.
Herron, Edward D.............................Tennessee.
Hanley, Joseph P...............................Indiana.
Heffeffinger, Miles A.............................Iowa.
Hinze, Carlos.....................................Cuba.
Herbert, Martin B.............................Illinois.
Hindel, William E..............................Indiana.
Hurst, Oliver C................................Indiana.
Heiser, Leo J..................................Indiana.
Hennessey, John...............................New	York.
Hoban, Thomas M................................Indiana.
Hayes, Arthur T.................................. Ohio.
Hagerty, William J...........................  Indiana.
Hengen, William 0..............................Indiana.
Hesse, Francis H..................................Iowa.
Howard, Edward A.............................. Indiana.
Hake, Edward A................................Michigan.
Hanhouser, George J.......................Pennsylvania.
Hake, Louis F................................ Michigan.
Herrmann, William A............................Indiana.
Haley, Joseph M................................Indiana.
Hesse, John C.................................... Iowa.
Howell, John E............................Pennsylvania.
Hessel, Edward F...............................Indiana.
Hay, Edward F...................................Mexico.
Hartung, Paul E...............................Illinois.
Hartzer, John O................................Indiana.
Hering, Francis E.........................Pennsylvania.
Hinsey, John A...............................Wisconsin.
Henry, Harvey E..................................Texas.
Halahan, William A................................Iowa.
Jelonak, Arthur M.............................Illinois.
Johnson, J. Gillespie..........................Georgia.
University of Notre Dame.
99
Jurado, Louis...................................Mexico.
Jones, Vitus G-...............................Michigan.
Jones, Rufus P................................Michigan.
Jamieson, William.............................Illinois.
Johnson, Orville F.......................    .Illinois.
Jonquet, Maurice A.............................Indiana.
Kasper, Robert A...............................	.Illinois.
Kelley, Charles J.............................Illinois.
Kasper, Adam J................................Illinois.
Kasper, George W..............................Illinois.
Kasper, Fred J................................Illinois.
Keiffer, Irve.................................Michigan.
Kelly, Leo J....................................Kansas.
Kiley, George P............................... Indiana.
Kirkland, Charles W...............................Iowa.
Klein, Alfred A...................................Ohio.
Kilgallen, Tracy..................................Ohio.
Krug, Albert L....................................Ohio.
Kuntz, Peter M................................Illinois.
Kuntz, John J.................................Illinois.
Kelleher, Joseph P.......................Massachusetts.
Kiley, Edward.................................Michigan.
Kelly, James J.................................Indiana.
Kachur, Albert.................................Indiana.
Kegler, William C........................a........Iowa.
Kidder, Thomas C..............................Illinois.
Kaul, Francis A...........................Pennsylvania.
Kaul, Isidore.............................Pennsylvania.
Kraus, Jacob J............................Pennsylvania.
Kearney, Peter E............................. Illinois.
Konzon, John J.................................Indiana.
Kuerze, Robert G-.................................Ohio.
Koehler, John E...............................Illinois.
Kuhl, John....................................Nebraska.
Keogh, Francis J...............................Indiana.
Keogh, Raymond.................................Indiana.
Lyons, Aloysius J.............................Michigan.
Long, Albert V.................................Indiana.
Landers, John D..............................Wisconsin.
Lowery, Thomas A..............................Michigan.
Lutz, Ferdinand L.............................Kentucky.
Lichtenwalter, Arthur B.......................Illinois.
Leib, Clarence C...............................Indiana.
Long, Edward......................................Ohio.
100
University of Notre Dame.
Land, William B ..............................Illinois.
Leach, George W................................Indiana.
Lovett, William P.............................Illinois.
Lyle, Leon R..................................Michigan.
Lantry, Jesse W...............................Illinois.
Lahey, John D.................................Michigan.
Lyons, Frapcis H.................. <..............Ohio.
Lynch, Robert E...............................Illinois.
Loshbough, Walter .............................Indiana.
Lindsay, James M..................................Iowa.
Lawton, Jasper H.................................Texas.
Lovell, Willard T............................  Montana.
Leisander, George...............................  Iowa.
Leclerque, Robert E...........................Illinois.
Manion, Percy J.....
Manion, Edward L ...
Monroe, John T.......
Monroe, Henry S......
Medley, Thomas A ..
Miller, John W.......
Murphy, Elmer J......
Murphy, John B....
Magruder, Albert S. J
Mingey, Edward J ...
Marr, George J*......
Marr, William J......
Moynihan, Patrick B .
Murphy, Timothy R .
Maher, W. H. Nelson.
Meagher, Louis.......
Moore, Edward C......
Mohn, Adolph A.......
Mooney, Francis T ...
Morgan, James E......
Morrisssey, John F...
Moss, Benjamin L ....
Mulcare, Thomas E..
Mulcare, Joseph E...
Murray, Thomas J...
Murray, Joseph J.....
Murray, Roy A........
Moxley, George T ....
Mueller, Arthur H...
Merz, Arthur W.......
Michels, Nicholas .. ..
......Illinois.
......Illinois.
.Ohio.
.Ohio.
.. • .Kentucky.
.Ohio.
......Iowa.
.Indiana.
... .Kentucky.
Pennsylvania.
.. Colorado.
. .Colorado.
.. .Georgia.
• Michigan.
... .Illinois.
. Kentucky.
.California.
.. .Indiana.
......Ohio.
.*..... Iowa.
.Michigan.
... .Illinois.
• .Missouri.
. .Missouri.
New York.
Massachusetts.
.....Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Montana.
• Pennsylvania.
.....Illinois.
*
University of Notre Dame.
ioi
Murphy, John 0...........................Michigan.
Meagher, John M..........................Kentucky.
Morrison, Don D. A...........................Iowa.
Mullen, John I.................................Minnesota.
Morris, William T...........................West	Virginia.
Mulcrone, Charles J.............................Michigan.
Monahan, William P............................“.Illinois.
Mueller, Henry W.....................................Iowa.
Meyers, John R...................................Illinois.
Monarch, Martin V................................Kentucky.
Moorhead, Herbert J...............................Indiana.
Maurus, Emil A...................................Illinois.
Massey, Wynter C.................................Michigan.
Martin, Thomas J.................................Illinois.
Miller, William R...................................Texas.
Monahan, Thomas H................................Illinois.
Malone, William H..............................Michigan.
Murphy, Charles L...............................Indiana.
Monahan, Samuel H..............................Illinois.
Monahan, Edward....................................... Illinois.
Moore, Samuel F........................................Illinois.
Mulhall, Joseph P .....................................Missouri.
Mathesius, A. George....................Wisconsin.
McElligott, Peter E.....................New York.
McIntyre, John E...........................Canada.
McDonough, William C.........................Iowa.
McDonald, Stewart........................Illinois.
McNamara, John A....................Massachusetts.
McKeon, Frederick T.......................Vermont.
McGrail, James V..........................Wisconsin.
McBride, Paul H................................Ohio.
McBride, Louis W...............................Ohio.
McBride, John L................................Ohio.
McBride, William...............................Ohio.
McCarthy, Thomas E ........................Illinois.
McCarthy, J. Gerald........................Illinois.
McConnell, Hugh............................Illinois.
McMahon, Mil ton...........................Illinois.
McMahon, John T............................Illinois.
McMahon, William J.........................Illinois.
McMaster, H. Carlisle......................Michigan.
}	o
McGeeney, James............................Illinois.
McGeeney, Edward...........................Illinois.
McCallen, Francis C....................Pennsylvania.
McCarthy, Eugene E.........................Illinois.
102
University of Notre Dame.
McDonell, Alex A........................Wisconsin.
McElroy, Edward J........................Illinois.
McIntyre, Robert F......................Minnesota.
McMahon, James J.........................Michigan.
McMahon, Owen J..........................Michigan.
McMaster, Kenneth W......................Michigan.
McNamara, George F..................Massachusetts.
McNichols, William J.....................Illinois.
McManus, Austin G.........................New	Jersey.
McDonald, Clarence J.....................Illinois.
McCarrick, George P......................Virginia.
McCormack, Michael J....................Tennessee.
McNichols, Francis J.....................Illinois.
McMillan, Arthur W...........................Iowa.
McGinnis, James H.........................New	York.
McConn, Eugene C.............................Iowa.
McDonald, Angus D...........................Texas.
McKenzie, John H.........................Illinois.
McMaster, Rollin J.......................Michigan.
McMaster, Belford C..................... Michigan.
Niezer, Charles M .........................Indiana.
Nye, Hubbard..................................Iowa.
Neville, Maurice, A.......................... Ohio.
Ney, Michael J................................Iowa.
Naughton, Thomas M........................Illinois.
Naughton, David A.........................Illinois.
Naughton, Joseph B.........................New	York.
Nolan, Thomas C...............................Ohio.
Noonan, Thomas E......................... Illinois.
Newell, Albert B..................... Pennsylvania.
Nast, Edward C............................Colorado.
Nieuwland, Julius A........................Indiana.
O’Connell, John...........................New York.
Oswald, Mathias J.........................Alaska Ty.
Oswald, Michael M.........................Alaska Ty.
O’Brien, Peter L.......................New	Foundland.
O’Hara, Francis J.........................Calfornia.
O’Malley, Francis W.....................Pennsylvania.
O’Malley, Raymond G................................Iowa.
O’Brien, Francis B..............................Indiana.
O’Brien, George J..............................Illinois.
O’Connell, Daniel G............................Illinois.
O’Malley, Edwrard J............................Missouri.
O’Neill, Robert P...............................Georgia.
University of Notre Dame.
103
Ordetx, Guillermo F.............................Cuba.
O’Shaughncssey, Francis.................... Illinois.
O’Shaughnessey, Martin..................... Illinois.
O’Hara, Thomas J..........................California.
Pickett, Benj. S................................Ohio.
Putnam, Joseph W............................Kentucky.
Pendleton, Alfred J ............................Ohio.
Paras, Carlos.................................Mexico.
Powell, Ralph E.................................Ohio.
Pim, F. Howard.......................... ... .Mis-ouri.
Powers, William H...........................Illinois.
Paul, Clement C..............................Indiana.
Phillips, Arthur J..............................Ohio.
Phillip, Francis J..........................Illinois.
Palmer, Ralph L.............................. Kansas.
Pulskamp, Edward H..............................Ohio.
Piquette, Charles J.........................Michigan.
Powers, Michael R.......................Massachusetts
Padden, Dominic J...........................Illinois.
Peterson, Oliver E. J.......................Illinois.
Pohlman, Edward J............................Indiana.
Powers, John F............................. Illinois.
Pul ford, Cecil H.......................... Illinois.
Putnam, John L..............................Kentucky.
Pyle, Joseph.................................Indiana.
Page, William D.............................Michigan.
Quinlan, John M.............................Illinois.
Quertinmont, George A...................Pennsylvania.
Quertinmont, Edgar J....................Pennsylvania.
Quinn, James B..............................Illinois.
Quandt, Otto E.............................Wisconsin.
Reinhard, Edward L............................. Ohio.
Rowan, Joseph J.................................Iowa.
Reed, Louis C. M.............................Indiana.
Rahe, Henry J...........................Pennsylvania.
Rockey, Charles A............................Indiana.
Ritter, Paul.................................Indiana.
Roy, John J.................................Oklahoma.
Ragan, Paul J.................................. Ohio.
Rosenthal, Jacob............................Michigan.
Reardon, Patrick E ........................New York.
Reilly, Thomas B...........................New York.
Reuss, Charles J.............................Indiana.
Richon, Alfred J............................Michigan.
104
University of Notre Dame.
Rudnicki, Joseph M.............................Illinois.
Rees, Harry................................... Illinois.
Rennolds, Harold W.............................Illinois.
Ryan, Raymond J....................... ... .Illinois.
Redpath, Teddy.....................................Illinois.	•
• Robbins, Wilson R.............................Illinois.
Rupel, Alexis 0.................................Indiana.
Spillard, Dan B................................Illinois.
Steele, Victor H...............................Illinois.
Strauss, Samuel A...............................Indiana.
Shields, John A.................................Indiana.
Strong, Grover D...............................Colorado.
Seymour, Gerald................................... Iowa.
Sullivan, Joseph J...........................  Illinois.
Sauter, John H.................................Illinois.
Sherman, Thomas J...............................Ireland.
Silver, John H................................New York.
Sammon, Andrew..................................Montana.
Schumacher. Mathew..............................Indiana.
Szalewski, Nieceslaus ........................  Indiana.
Sullivan, Michael..................................Ohio.
Sutton, James R ...............................Illinois.
Stearns, Henry C...............................Illinois.
Speake, Harold E................................Indiana.
Smoger, Francis A...............................Indiana.
Stuhlfauth, George.....................’......Wisconsin.
Scott, Howard H....................................Ohio.
Summers, Francis J..............................Indiana.
Schermerhorn, Clarence V.......................Michigan.
San Roman, Jose...................................Texas.
Schulte, Fred W....................................Iowa.
Singler, Charles E..............................Indiana.
Spalding, Richard S.............................Georgia.
Scheubert, Charles E...........................Illinois.
Sullivan, Joseph V.............................Illinois.
Steele, Sherman....................................Ohio.
Spalding, Samuel J... J........................Kentucky.
Sanders, James J.............................. Illinois.
Schillo, Fred J ...............................Illinois.
Steiner, Thomas A .............................Michigan.
Sheehan, William F ............................Michigan.
Stace, Arthur W ...............................Michigan.
Sample, Guy R .................................Illinois.
Sanford, Benjamin C............................Missouri.
Schaffhauser, Oscar P..........................Illinois.
University of Notre Dame.
105
Scherrer, J. Garfi Id .........................Illinois.
Scherrer, William W ...........................Illinois.
Schmidt, Henry B...............................Michigan.
Schmitt, Arthur J .................................Ohio.
Sheeky, Eugene A...........................Pennsylvania.
Sheehy, Joseph J................................Indiana.
Sheils, Joseph P...............................Illinois.
Shillington, Charles J.........................Illinois.
Shea, William F.............................. Wisconsin.
Slevin, John L. S .............................Illinois.
Stengel, Robert G..................................Ohio.
Sullivan, Sylvester J.........................Tennessee.
Swan, Edmund F..................................Indiana.
Szybowicz, Leonard F............................Indiana.
Sexton, Thomas D...............................Illinois.
Swiney, Edward E...............................Illinois.
Schwabe, Joseph M...........................West	Virginia.
Taylor, James G................................New	York'
Tong, Lucius G..................................Indiana.
Trahey, James J.................................Indiana.
Thurin, George.....................................Ohio.
Thiele, John M..................................Indiana.
Thams, John L .............................North	Dakota.
Taylor, Henry E................................Illinois.
Tong, Oliver W................................. Indiana.
Tuhy, Carl......................................Indiana.
Tomlinson, Charles A...........................Arkansas.
Tuohy, Joseph J................................Illinois.
Toba, Joaquin................................... Mexico.
Taylor, Francis C..............................Illinois.
Terhune, Lorin J...............................Illinois.
Tillotson, William K...........................Illinois.
Trentman, Stephen A.............................Indiana.
Van Sant, Ralph N..............................Illinois.
Van Sant, Leport R.............................Illinois.
Van Dyke, G. Francis.......................... Michigan.
Van Dyke, James A..............................Michigan.
Vogt, Charles F.................................Indiana.
Van Hessche, Leo.............................. Indiana.
Van der Vennett, Arthur........................Indiana.
Veneziani, Louis I.............................Indiana.
Wolf, Arthur ..................................Indiana.
Weisbacker, John..................................Iowa.
Weaver, W. Burnett................................Ohio.
University of Notre Dame.
Wurzer, F. Henry.............................Michigan.
Welch, Francis M.............................Illinois.
Weidmann, George S ..............................Ohio.
Weidmann, Fritz M................................Ohio.
Wilde, George A...............................Indiana.
Weber, L. Kent...................................Ohio.
Wigg, Clifford C.............................Illinois.
„ Wagemann, Eugene A...........................Missouri.
Ward, James A................................Illinois.
Ward, H. St. Clair........................   Illinois.
Ward, Francis R.............................Minnesota.
Waite, Francis W............................Louisiana.
Walsh, John V................................Illinois.
Watterson, Theodore V............................Ohio.
Wells, Charles D.............................Illinois.
Wilson, Ralph M......................... Pennsylvania.
Weadock, G. Leo T............................Michigan.
Weadock, Louis T.............................Michigan.
Ward, Walter M...............................Illinois.
Whitehead, John B...........................Kentucky.
Wigg, Mayes G...............................Illinois.
Welker, Vincent B...............................Ohio.
Wieczorek, Ladislaus A.......................Indiana.
Wimberg, John G......................Indiana.
Wade, Earl H...............................Ohio
Wimberg, Henry A.......................Indiana.
Williams, JohnF........................Indiana.
Wynne, Peter J........................................New	Jersey.
Wilson, George H........................................Illinois.
Werner, Francis C.....................................  Illinois.
Wolcott, Henry A........................................Illinois.
Zaehnle, Edward L.............................Indiana.
Zaehnle, Otto A
Indiana.
' University of Notre Dame.
107
Notre Dame University Alumni Association.
Officers.
Honorable Judge John Gibbons, President.
George S. Crilly, 1st Vice-President.
David J. Wile, 2d Vice-President.
Harold V. Hayes, Treasurer.
Mark M. Foote, Secretary.
Board of Directors-.
Hugh P. O’Neil.
Dr. J. A. Hemsteger.
P. T. Barry
Kickham Scanlon.
Charles T. Cavanagh
io8
University of Notre Dame.
College Societies.
Religious.
SORIN AND BROWNSON HALLS.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.
This pious Association is affiliated to the Archconfraternity
of the Sacred and Immaculate Heart of Mary, established in
the Church of Our Lady of Victories, in Paris. Its primary
object is to pray for the conversion of sinners and persons in
error. It aims at the mutual edification and personal sanctifi-
cation of all its members by regular weekly religious exercises,
monthly communions, and other religious practices. The
Archconfraternity is the oldest society in the University, and
recruits its members from amongst the Catholic students of
Brownson and Sorin Halls. It was canonically established at
Notre Dame by the Very Rev. leather Sorin, in 1845, and bids
fair to be in the future, as it has been in the past, for the stu-
dents of Notre Dame, a source of many blessings from the
hand of their Patroness, the Immaculate Mother of God.
Owing to the greatly increased membership, the associates
are divided into four branches.
GENERAL OFFICERS.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, 0. S. C., Hon. Director.
Rev. Janies A. Burns, C. S C., ( -p . al Director.
Rev. Joseph Kirsch, C. S. C.,	<’1 romoters.
Rev. James A. Burns, C. S C., (___. „
Rev. Joseph Kirsch, C. S. C., ('Promoters.
Bro. Emmanuel, O. S. C., J
Bro. Basil, C. S. C., Organist.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Choir Director.
University of Notre Dame.
109
Branch No. 1.
Rev. S. Fitte, C. S. C., Director.
James H. McGinnis, President.
John F. Daly, Vice-President.
Edward C. Brown, Treasurer.
William P. Monahan, Secretary.
John R. Farrell, Standard Bearer.
Branch No. 2.
Rev. M. J. Regan, 0. S. 0., Director.
Louis C. M. Reed, President.
Robert E. Brown, Vice-President.
Robert E. Barry, Secretary.
Fred W. Schulte, Treasurer.
Justo L. Armijo, Standard Bearer.
Branch No. 3.
Rev. J. M. Kirsch, C. S. 0., Director.
John Thiele, President.
Louis M. Fetherstone, Vice-President.
William J. Desmond, Treasurer.
John H. McKenzie, Secretary.
Edward F. Hay, Standard Bearer.
Branch No. 4.
Rev. Jas. A. Burns, C. S. C., Director.
James D. Barry, President.
Paul J. Ragan, Vice-President.
Patrick E. Reardon, Secretary.
Thomas A. Steiner, Treasurer.
Eugene A. Delaney, Standard Bearer.
CARROLL HALL.
Archconfraternity of the Immaculate Heart of Mary.
The Carroll Hall Archconfraternity has the same aims and
object as that of Sorin and Brownson Halls. It recruits its
members from amongst the Catholic students of Carroll Hall.
GENERAL OFFICERS.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Hon. Director.
Rev. John B. Scheier, C. S. C., 1
Rev. W. Moloney, C. S. C., ^Promoters.
Bro. Alexander, 0. S. C.,	)
Bro. Basil, C. S. C., Organist.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Choir Director.
Branch No. 1.
Branch No. 2.
Rev. Jas. J. French, C.S.C., Director.
Francis B. Cornell, President.
Joseph P. Sheils, Vice-President.
Charles J. Reuss, Secretary.
Francis X. Druiding, Treasurer.
Arthur W. Merz, Standard Bearer.
Rev. JohnB. Scheier, C.S.O., Director
Thomas J. Murray, President.
Michael J. Condon, Vice-President.
John F. Powers, Secretary.
Alexis Coquillard, Treasurer.
Oliver E. J. Peterson, Stan’d Bearer
Branch No. 3.
Bro. Alphonsus C S C., ! Directors.
Bro. Cyprian, C. S. C., )
Patrick A. Curtis, President.
John L. Putnam, Vice-President.
Ralph J. Ellwanger, Secretary.
Joseph J. Sheekey, Treasurer.
H. St. Clair Ward, Standard Bearer.
IIO
University of Notre Dame.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Society of the Holy Childhood.
The primary object of the Society of the Holy Childhood,
of which this Society forms a part, is to offer an opportunity
to children throughout the world to contribute their share
towards the redemption of pagan children from the darkness
of heathenism, The monthly contributions are small, but the
aggregate is considerable, while thousands of children are by
this means trained up to habits of charity.
OFFICERS.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Dieector.
Willard T. Lovell, President.
Francis E. Ebbert, Vice-President.
Daniel B. Spillard, Treasurer.
Jasper H. Lawton, Secretary.
Robert Clark, Censor.
Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary.
This Society was founded September 29, 1874, by Very Rev.
FL Sorin, Superior General, C. S. C. It is composed of pupils
of the Minim Department, and has for its object the practice
of devotion to the Guardian Angels, the cultivation of a spirit
of piety among its members, the supplying of the church with
the servers required at Mass, Vespers, and other Church offices.
In 1875, Very Rev. Father Sorin obtained for this Association
many special Indulgences from the late Pope Pius IX of happy
memory.	‘
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,	|	,
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, 0. S. 0., f Hon- Directors-
First Term.
Second Term.
Rev. J. Cavanaugh, C. S. 0., Director. Rev. J. Cavanaugh, 0. S. C., Director.
Mr. J. Gallagher, C. S. 0., President. Mr. J. Gallagher, 0. S. C., President.
Thomas R. Fetter, | v Prp<,iflpntq
Daniel B. Spillard, 1 V' rresidents-
John W. Atkinson, Treasurer.
Thomas E. McCarthy, Rec. Sec’y.
Francis E. Welch, Cor. Secretary.
Louis J. Terhune, First Censor.
Francis E. Ebbert, Second Censor.
Robert A. Kasper, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Thomas R. Fetter,
Daniel B. Spillard,
V.-Presidents.
John W. Atkinson, Treasurer.
Thomas E. McCarthy, Rec. Sec’y.
Francis E. Welch, Cor. Secretary.
L. Kent Weber, First Censor.
Francis E. Ebbert, Second Censor.
Robert A. Kasper, Sergeant-at-Arms.
University of Notre Dame.
hi
League of the Sacred Heart, or Apostleship
of Prayer.
This association was organized in September, 1891, and is
affiliated to the Central Branch in New York City. As member-
ship in the League does not debar the students from entering
the other College societies, the Apostleship of Prayer, through
its zealous promoters, has enrolled every Catholic student at
Notre Dame. The following are the names of the
PROMOTERS.
Rev. John B. Scheier, 0. S. C.
Rev. James A. Burns, 0. S. 0.
Rev. Denis J. Hagerty, C. S. 0.
Bro. Emmanuel, C. S. 0.
Bro. Hilarion, 0. S. 0.
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. 0.
Bro. Columba, 0. S. 0.
John 0. Burke.
John 0. Donovan.
John C. Hesse.
Francis J. McNichols.
George P. McCarrick.
S. Joseph Brucker.
George VV. Leach. '
Rev. James J. French, 0. S. C.
Rev. M. J. Regan, 0. S. 0.
Rev. W. R. Connor, 0. S. C.
Bro. Albeus, 0. S. C.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C.
Bro. Jerome, 0. S. C.
Bro. Gregory, 0. S. C.
Thomas B. Reilly.
Jesse W. Lan try.
Ralph N. Wilson.
Leo J. Kelly.
Dominic J. Padden.
Ernest L. Dugas.	,
Patrick A. Curtis.
Edwin E. Elliott.
Total Abstinence Union.
The Notre Dame Total Abstinence Union was organized
November 8, 1882. It is affiliated to the State and National
Unions. It has always received the warmest encouragement of
the Faculty, whose efforts have been unceasing to increase its
membership.	OFFICERS.
Sorin and Brownson Halls.
n6V- J PA°ne>? o « c ’ C Spiritual Directors.
Rev. James Burns, C. S. C., ) 1
BOTH TERMS.
James Bennett, President.
Raymond G. O’Malley, Vice-President.
--------------------, Secretary.
Francis O’Shaughnessey, Treasurer.
Francis W.-O’Malley, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Oarroll Hall.—Both Terms
Rev. P. P. Cooney, C. S. C., Spiritual Director.
Rev. James A. Burns, 0. S. 0., President.
John F. Fennessey, 1st Vice-President.
Elmer W. Burke, 2d Vice-President.
John F. Morrissey, Secretary.
James G. Taylor, Sergeant-at-Arms.
112
University of Notre Dame.
LITERARY.
Columbian Literary and Dramatic Association.
The Columbian Society was founded March 25, 1875, f°r
the benefit of students in Brownson Hall. Its object is the
cultivation of elocution and oratory.
OFFICERS.
FIRST TERM.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Director.
James F. Edwards, Promoter.
James J. French, 0. S. C., President.
------------------, ist Vive-Pres.
Charles M. Niezer, 2d Vice-Pres.
Louis C. M. Reed, Recording Sec.
--------------, Cor. Sec.
Robert E. Barry, Treasurer.
Edward B. Falvey, Critic.
Joseph W. Tuohy, Censor.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. 0., Director.
James F. Edwards, Promoter.
James J. French, 0. S. C., President.
Charles M. Niezer, 1st Vice-Pres.
John H. McGinnis, 2d Vice-Pres.
Louis 0. M. Reed, Recording Sec.
------------------} Cor- gee.
Peter E. Follen, Treasurer.
William P. Monahan, Critic.
R. Emmett Brown, Censor.
St. Cecilia Philomethan Society.
This Society, one of the oldest and best at Notre Dame, is
at the same time a Debating, Dramatic and Musical Association.
Its exercises include public readings, declamations, essays,
debates, dramatic exercises and a Moot Court. It numbers 40
members—the elite of Carroll Hall. Many of the plays acted
upon the stage, for the purpose of bringing out the elocutionary
powers of its members, have been written expressly for them.
OFFICERS.
Rev. Andrew Morrisey, C. S. C., Hon. President.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. 0., lLiterarv Critics
Dr. Austin O’Malley,	j Literary Critics.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Musical Director.
Bro. Alexander, C. S. C., Promoter.
First Term.	Second Term.
Rev. Jas. J. French, C. S. C., Pres.
John F. Fennessey, 1st Vice-Pres.
Francis B. Cornell, 2d Vice-Pres.
Francis X. Druiding, Rec. Sec’y.
Thomas J. Murray, Cor. Secretary.
Theodore V. Watterson, Treasurer.
Roy A. Murray, Historian.
James G. Taylor, First Censor.
William F. Dinnen, Second Censor.
John V. Walsh, Sergeant-at-Arms.
Rev. Jas. J. French, C. S. 0., Pres.
John F. Fennessey, 1st Vice-Pres.
Francis B. Cornell, 2d Vice-Pres.
Francis X. Druiding, Rec. Sec’y.
Theodore V. Watterson, Cor. Sec’y.
John V. Walsh, Treasurer.
Charles D. Wells, Historian.
Joseph J. Murray, First Censor.
John F. Morrissey, Second Censor.
James G. Taylor, Sergeant-at-Arms.
University of Notre Dame.
i 13
The Sorin Literary and Dramatic Association.
The object of this Society, .organized by the Rev. Thomas
E. Walsh, C. S. C., on November 25, 1877, f°r the pupils of St.
Edward’s Hall, is the study of Elocution, and cultivation of the
Dramatic Art.
OFFICERS.
Very Rev. W. Corby, C. S. C.,
Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C.,
Honorary Directors.
First Term.
Second Term.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, 0. S. C., Dir.
Rev. Jas. Burns, C. S. C., Promoter.
Rev. Wm. A. Moloney, C. S. C., Pres.
Daniel B. Spillard, 1st Vice-Pres.
Thomas R. Fetter, 2d Vice-Pres.
Victor H. Steele, Cor. Secretary.
Robert Clark, Rec. Secretary.
Percey V. Cotter, Treasurer.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., Dir
Rev. Jas. Burns, C. S. C., Promoter
Rev. Wm. A. Moloney, C. S. C., Pres
George C. Beardslee, 1st Vice-Pres.
Grover C. Davis, 2d Vice-President.
Daniel B. Spillard, Cor. Secretary.
Francis M. Welch, Rec. Secretary.
Fredric M. Weidmann, Treasurer.
University Stock Company.
The aim of this Company, which is composed of the best
dramatic talent in the University, is to present the higher forms
of the drama.
OFFICERS.
Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., Director.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Musical Director.
Thomas Tyrone Cavanagh, Manager.
Edward Erasmus Brennan, Assistant Manager.
Joseph A. Mar mon,
Elmer J. Murphy,
Charles M. B. Bryan,
William A. Fagan,
George P. McCarrick,
J. Francis Corr,
Peter M. Kuntz,
Thomas J. O’Hara.
Thomas A. Lowery,
W. Burnett Weaver,
A. Roy Crawford,
H4
University of Notre Dame.
LAW.
University Moot Court.
OFFICERS.
Hon. William Hoynes, Judge.
James H. Browne, Clerk.
Edward A. Howard, Deputy Clerk.
Francis J. F. Confer, Prosecuting Attorney.
' Louis T. Weadock, Deputy Prosecuting Attorney.
Stephen J. Brucker, Sheriff.
Peter J. Wynne, Deputy Sheriff.
Joseph Haley, Jr., Coroner.
.	Samuel J. Spalding (jury Commissioners.
Benjamin Pickett, ) J
Francis P. Dreher,	£ Reporters
Michael J. McCormack, J KePoneis-
Henry Wurzer, Notary Public.
Edward J. Mingey, Recorder.
Court of Chancery.
Hon. William Hoynes, Chancellor.
James B. Quinn, Clerk.
Oliver W. Tong, Deputy Clerk.
Peter E. Kearney, Master in Chancery.
Charles E. Singler, Deputy Sheriff.
Alexis O Rupel, 1 R
Ralph Powell, |	1
United States District Court.
Hon. William Hoynes, Judge.
Frederick J. Schillo, Clerk.
William A. Guilfoyle, Deputy Clerk.
Joseph A. Corby, LT. S. District Attorney.
C. Schermerhorn, Asst. U. S. Dist. Atty.
Frank O’Shaughnessy, U. S. Marshal.
J. J. Kraus, Assistant U. S. Marshal.
J. R. Meyers,	) Reporters
Eugene Campbell, f ^Porrers.
Justice’s Court.
A. S. J. Magruder, Justice of the Peace.
Paul E. Hartung, Clerk.
Thomas M. Hoban, Constable.
United States Commissioner’s Court.
M. James Ney, U. S. Commissioner.
John Francis Corr, Clerk.
Wilson H. Cullinane, Deputy Clerk.
John Silver, Assistant U. S. Attorney.
--------------------, Assistant U. S. Marshal.
University of Notre Dame.
US
Law Debating Society.
FIRST TERM.
Rev. A. Morrissey, 0. S. 0., Director.
Col. William Hoynes, President.
Francis J. F. Confer, 1st Vice-Pres.
Stephen J. Brucker, 2d Vice-Pres.
A. S. J. Magruder, Rec. Secretary.
Frederick J. Shillo, Cor. Secretary.
Joseph A. Haley, Treasurer.
Edward J. Mingey, Critic.
0. V. Shermerhorn, Serg’t-at-Arms.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. A. Morrissey, 0. S. C., Director.
Col. William Hoynes, President.
Albert S. J. Magruder, 1st Vice-Pres.
James B. Quinn, 2d Vice-Pres.
Peter E. Kearney, Rec. Secretary.
Louis T. Weadock, Cor. Secretary.
Francis J. F. Confer, Treasurer.
Frank O’Shaughnessey, Critic.
Wm. E. Crowley, Serg’t-at-Arms.
ATHLETICS.
The Lemonnier Boat Club.
OFFICERS.
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., Director.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. 0., President and Treasurer.
John F. Mullin, ) n
Charles M. Niezer, f Commodores-
Robert E. Barry, Recording Secretary.
Edward B. Falvey, Corresponding Secretary.
William M. Thompson, M. D., Coach.
FALL CREWS, 1896.
Two Length Races, October 17th, 3:30 p. m.
Golden Jubilee.	Silver Jubilee.
No. 1. Robert L. Fox.
No. 2. Oliver W. Tong.
No. 3. F. Howard Pim.
No. 4. William R. Miller.
No. 5. Charles M. Niezer, Captain.
Edward T. Gilmartin, Stroke.
----------------, Coxswain.
No. 1. Charles P. Flannigan.
No. 2.-----------------
No. 3. John Howell.
No. 4. Joseph J. Rowan.
No. 5. Fred. W. Schulte.
Thomas C. Kidder, Stroke.
John I. Mullen, Capt. andCoxs
Evangeline.
Minnehaha.
No. 1. Mayes G. Wigg.
No. 2. Robert E. Barry.
No. 3. Robert G. Kuerze.
No. 4. Vincent B. Welker.
No. 5. John M. Meagher.
-----------------,	Stroke.
Joseph J. Tuohy, Coxswain.
No. 1. John L. Thams.
No. 2. George S. Cypher, Captain.
No. 3. Rodolfo M. Garza.
No. 4. Andrew F. Fehr.
No. 5. William J. Hagerty.
Henry J. Rabe, Stroke.
---------------, Coxswain.
116
University of Notre Dame
SPRING CREWS, 1897.
Three Length Races, June 16th, 10:00 a. m.
Golden Jubilee.
Silver Jubilee.
No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. No. 5. No. 6.		John I. Mullen, Captain. S. F. Bouwens. F. Howard Pim. Paul E. Hartung. Clarence C. Lieb. John E. Howell, Coxswain.	No. No. No. No. No. No.	1.	Charles P. Flannigan. 2.	Peter E. Kearney. 3.	Wilson H. Cullinane. 4.	Henry G. Rahe. 5.	Fred. W. Schulte. 6.	Charles M. Niezer, Captain.
		Minnehaha.		Evangeline.
No. 1. No. 2. No. 3. No. 4. No. 5. No. 6.		Mayes G. Wigg. Robert E. Barry, Captain. Robert G. Kuerze. Vincent B. Welker. John M. Meagher. Andrew F. Fehr. Oliver W. Tong, Coxswain.	No. No. No. No. No. No.	1.	Edward B. Falvey, Captain. 2.	George A. Cypher. 3.	R. M. Garza. 4.	John D. Landers. 5.	E. L. Guerra. 6.	John E. Koehler. Herbert J. Moorhead, Coxswain.
		Yosemite.		Montmorency.
No. No. No. No. No.	1. 2. 3^ 4. 5.	Alfred J. Pendleton, Captain.- Edward L. Reinhard. Jose San Roman. Eugene C. McConn. Joseph J. Tuohy, Coxswain.	No. No. No. No. No.	1.	William T. Morris. 2.	Robert E. Franey. 3.	Henry C. Stearns, Captain. 4.	John F. Daly. 5.	Hubbard Nye, Coxswain.
Hoynes Light Guards.
OFFICERS.
William Hoynes, Colonel.
Rev. M. J. Regan, C. S. C., Chaplain.
W. Burnett Weaver, Adjutant.
Eugene A. Wagenmann, Chief Trumpeter.
Company A.
W. Burnett Weaver, Captain.
Joseph M. Haley, First Lieutenant.
Henry C. Stearns, Second Lieutenant.
William T. Morris, First Sergeant.
Vincent D. Welker, Second Sergeant.
Herbert J. Moorhead, Third Sergeant.
Company B.
Samuel D. Dixon, Captain.
Joseph V. Sullivan, First Lieutenant.
Charles D. Wrells, Second Lieutenant.
Frederick J. Kasper, First Sergeant,
Roy A. Murray, Second Sergeant.
James G. Taylor, Third Sergeant.
Albert A: Klein, Fourth Sergeant.
Gordon R. Cowie, First Corporal.
University of Notre Dame.
117
University Athletic Association.
Sorin and Brownson Halls.
FIRST TERM.
SECOND TERM.
Rev. J.W.Cavanaugh,C.S.C., )	„
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C.,	f^8-
Rev. W.A.Maloney,C.S.C., Promoter.
Col. William Hoynes, President.
Frederick J. Schillo, Vice-Pres.
Eugene A. Delaney, Rec. Secretary.
James Browne, Cor. Secretary.
Francis J. F. Confer, Treasurer.
John AV. Miller, Field Reporter.
Daniel P. Muphry, Mgr. Football
and Basket Ball Teams.
Alexander R. Carney,
C. M. B. Bryan,
John I. Mullen,
John F. McNamara,
Executive
* Committee.
Rev. J. W. Cavanaugh, C. S. C., 1 o
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C.',	fnirs*
Rev. E. Murphy, C. S. C., Promoter.
Col. William Hoynes, President.
Eugene A. Delaney, Rec. Secretary.
Francis J. O’Malley, Cor. Secretary.
Francis O’Shaughnessey, Treasurer.
Arthur W. Stace, Field Reporter.
Raymond G-. O’Malley, Mgr. Base
Ball Team.
Charles M. Niezer, 'J
Thomas B. Reilly, Executive
Robert E Brown, { Committee.
John F. McNamara, I
Carroll Hall.
FIRST TERM.
SECOND TERM.
Joseph B Naughton, President.
Francis B. Cornell, Vice-President.
John F. Fennessey, Secretary.
Thomas D. Burns, Treasurer.
Francis R. Ward, Reporter.
J.B.Naughton,Capt.Foot Ball Team.
John F. Fennessey, President.
Francis B. Cornell, Vice-President.
Joseph B. Naughton, Secretary.
Theodore V. Watterson, Treasurer.
J. B. Naughton,Capt. Foot Ball Team
E. D. Herron, Capt. Base Ball Team
Edward D. Herron, Capt. Base Bail Team.
Joseph B. Naughton, Capt. Basket Ball Team.
Thomas D. Burns, '
Francis A. Ward,
Francis B. Cornell, J Executive Committee.
John F. Fennessey
Joseph B. Naughton, _
University Cycling Clubs.
OFFICERS.
St. Lawrence Club.	St. Albeus Club.
BROWNSON HALL.	CARROLL HALL.
Rev. M. J Regan, C.S.O., ) DirectOTS.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C., J
Alfred J. Pendleton, President.
Joseph J. Tuohy, Vice-President.
William P. Grady, Captain.
Henry E. Taylor, 1st Lieutenant.
Louis C. M. Reed, 2d Lieutenant.
F. Howard Pim, Rec. Secretary.
Eugene Campbell, Cor. Secretary.
George J. Hanhauser, Color Bearer.
Bro. Alphonsus, C. S. C., Director
Joseph B. Naughton, President,
Francis R. Ward, Vice-President.
Thomas I). Burns, Rec. Secretary.
Roy A. Murray, Cor. Secretary.
Charles J. Reuss, Captain.
Peter M. Kuntz, 1st Lieutenant.
John F. Powers, 2d Lieutenant.
Eddens J. Darst, Treasurer.
Ralph N. Wilson, Color Bearer.
118
University of Notre Dame.
The Tennis Clubs.
OFFICERS.
Brownson Hall.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C., Promoter.
William R. Miller, President.
Lew E. Fadeley, Vice-President.
Louis 0. M. Reed, Secretary.
-----------------------, Treasurer.
Carroll Hall.
G. Leo T. Weadock, Promoter.
Charles E. Foley, President.
Eddens J. Darst, Vice-President.
Francis X. Dellone, Secretary.
Robert S. Funk, Treasurer.
Charles J. Reuss, Serg’t-at-Arms.
Clarence K. Corby, Captain.
Hand Ball Associations.
Brownson Hall.
Bro. Hilarion, C. S. C., Director.
Michael T. Daly, President.
-------------------------, Secretary.
John C. Hesse, Treasurer.
Charles P. Flanagan, Marshal.
Carroll Hall.
Francis B. Cornell, President.
John F. Fennessey, Vice-President.
Theodore V. Watterson, Secretary.
Joseph B. Naughton, Treasurer.
John F. Powers, Scorer.
William J. McNichols, Umpire.
Edward D. Herron, Marshal.
MUSICAL.
Choir.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
Bro. Basil, 0. S. C., Organist.
MEMBERS.
First Tenors.
Fredrick J. Schillo. Ralph L. Palmer.	Jesse W. Lantry. Second Tenors.	Wynter C. Massey. Thomas E. Cavanagh.
Thomas J. O’Hara. Henry E. Taylor.	Leroy A. Crawford.	John R. Meyers. Francis F. Dukette.
University of Notre Dame.
i 19
First Bass.
William C. Kegler.
Charles J. Piquette.
Thomas T. Steiner.
Michael R Powers.
Elmer J. Murphy.
Walter B. Golden.
Seraphine F. Bauwens.
Second Bass.
Burnett W. Weaver.
Samuel D. Dixon.
Francis J. F. Confer.
F. Howard Pim.
University Orchestra.
MEMBERS.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
Prof. Dam is Paul,	j
Francis W. Bartun,	I
Joseph J. Rowan,	[
Michael J. McCormack, )
Edward C. Nast, Viola.
Robert Elbel, Clarionet.
Edward J. Rauch, Flute.
1st Violin.
Thomas A. Steiner, 1st Cornet.
Francis B. Cornell, 2d Cornet.
George J. Hanhauser, 'J
Adam J. Kaspar,	}> 2d Violin.
Thomas J. Dooley,	j
Elmer J. Murphy. Trombone.
William C. Kegler, Bass.
Bro. Leopold, U. S. C., Cello.
Francis F. Dukette, Piano.
Frederick J. Schillo, Drums.
University Mandolin Orchestra.
MEMBERS.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
MANDOLINS.
Louis Meagher. Henry E. Taylor,	Leon R. Lyle. Robert G. Kuerze.	Thomas D. Burns. Eddens J. Darst.
Edward L. Reinhard.	Andrew F. Fehr.	William R. Mueller.
Benjamin C. Sanford.	Joseph J. Tuohy.	Alfred J. Pendleton.
Charles F. Fleming.	Henry W. Mueller.	James G. Taylor.
Tracy Kilgallen. John C. Hesse.	James A. Ward. Leroy A. Frank.	Alphonse M. Becker.
Louis C. M. Reed.	Thomas J. O’Hara.	John F. Powers.
GUITARS.
Francis X. Ackermann. William Logan Benitz. Ralph L. Palmer.	Francis J. Hesse. Charles A. Tomlinson. Joseph E. Ellison.	Jerome J. Green. John R. Meyers. Lew E. Fadeley.
Oliver C. Hurst.	
BANJOS.	
Thomas B. Reilly.	Charles J. Baab.	Francis J. F. Confer.
VIOLINS.	
Michael J. McCormack. Adam J. Kaspar.	George J. Hanhauser.
Edward 0. Nast, Viola.	Frederick J, Schillo, Metalaphone.
Thomas A. Steiner, Flute.	Francis B. Cornell, Mute Horn.
William C. Kegler, Bass.
120
University of Notre Dame.
University Quartettes.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
VOCAL.
Francis W. Barton, First Tenor. Thomas A. Steiner, First Bass.
Frederick J. Schillo, Second Tenor. William 0. Kegler, Second Bass.
Louis Meagher.
Robert G. Kuerze.
MANDOLIN.
Henry E. Taylor.
Edward L. Reinhard.
VIOLIN.
Michael J. McCormack.
Edward 0. Nast.
George J. Hanhauser.
Adam J. Kaspar.
BRASS.
William C. Kegler, First Cornet. Francis B. Cornell, Alto.
Thomas z\. Steiner, Second Cornet. Elmer J. Murphy, Baritone.
University Cornet Band.
MEMBERS.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, Director.
Joseph A. Mannon, Solo Bb Cornet.
Thomas A. Steiner, 1st Bb Cornet.
Francis F. Dukette, 3d Bb Cornet.
Edward F. Hay, 2d zXJto.
Paul J. Ragan, 3d Alto.
Alphonse M. Becker, 4th Alto.
Elmer J. Murphy, Euphonium.
Francis B. Cornell, Solo Baritone.
Adam J. Kaspar, 1st Tenor.
Charles A. Tomlinson, 2d Tenor.
Jesse W. Lantry, Tuba.
Edward F. Hessel, Bb Bass.
Angus D. McDonald, Snare Drum.
William 0. Kegler, Solo Bb Cornet
Francis J. F. Confer, 2d Bb Cornet
Joseph A. Rowan, Solo Alto.
Joseph A. McNamara, 2d Alto.
F. Henry Wurzer, 3d Alto.
Edward L. Reinhard, 4th Alto.
Charles J. Piquette, 1st Trombone
Michael J. Condon, 2d Trombone.
George J. Hanhauser, 1st Tenor.
John R. Meyers, 2d Tenor.
Jose San Roman, Eb Bass.
Frederick J. Schillo, Snare Drum.
Jacob Rosenthal, Bass Drum.
The Orpheus Club.
OFFICERS.
Prof. Newton A. Preston, President and Musical Director.
--------------, Vice-President. Rrederick J. Schillo, Treasurer.
Francis J. F. Confer, Secretary. Francis F. Dukette, Accompanist.
BOARD OF MANAGERS.
Prof. Newton A. Preston.
Louis C. M. Reed.	Thomas A. Steiner.
Jesse W. Lantry.	Thomas J. O’Hara.
University of Notre Dame.
121
MEMBERS.
Joseph E. Cm by.
Edward L. Reinhard.
James W. Browne.
James A. Rowan.
Robert E. Barry.
George H. Wilson.
William E. Crowley.
W B. Weaver.
Louis C. M. Reed.
Charles J. Baab.
Robert L. Fox.
Louis M. Fetherstone.
Thomas A. Medley.
Francis E. Dukette.
Thomas A. Steiner.
Joseph J. Tuohy.
Wynter C. Massey.
Joseph A. Marmon.
Thomas B. Reilly.
Thomas J. O’Hara.
Robert G. Kuerze.
John R. Myers.
Jesse AV. Lantry.
John A. Howell.
John C. Burke.
Lew E. Fadeley.
Charles J. Piquette.
Edward B Falvey.
Joseph M. Haley.
F. Howard Pim.
Samuel 1). Dixon.
Joseph V Sullivan.
Oliver W. Tong.
William C. Kegler.
George P. McCarrick.
Edward 1). Collins.
Joseph E. Ellison.
A. Roy Crawford.
Vincent B. Welker.
Frederick J. Schillo.
Francis J. McNichols.
Thomas E. Cavanaugh.
Thomas J. Dooley.
John 0. Hesse.
W. B. Golden.
Francis J. F. Confer.
Wilson H. Cullinane.
Carl Tuhy.
Otto E. Quandt.
Henry E. Taylor.
Seraphine F. Bauwens.
A. M. Jelonak.
Herbert J. Moorhead.
Paul E. Hartung.
Thomas T. Cavanagh.
Michael J. McCormack.
122	University of Notre Dame
Conferring of Degrees.
The Degree of Master of Arts in course was conferred on
Rev. John B. Scheier, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
Michael A. Quinlan, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts in course was conferred on
James Dixon Barry, Chicago, Illinois.
Thomas Tyrone Cavanagh, Chicago, Illinois.
Martin James Costello, Chicago, Illinois.
Walter Bernard Golden, Butler, Pensylvania.
Jesse William Lantry, Chatsworth, Illinois.
John Andrew McNamara, Milford, Mass.
Paul Jerome Ragan, Maumee, Ohio.
Patrick Eugene Reardon, Sing Sing, New York.
•Thomas Burke Reilly, New York City.
Joseph Vincent Sullivan, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Hunter Macaulay Bennett, Weston, W. Virginia.
Edward Erasmus Brennan, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Charles Middleton Bryan, Memphis, Tennessee.
William C. Hengen, South Bend, Indiana.
Elmer Jerome Murphy, Bellevue. Iowa.
M. James Ney, Denver, Colorado.
James Joseph Sanders, Chicago, Illinois.
Sherman Steele, Lancaster, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
ferred on
William Augustine Fagan, Schenectady, New York.
Jacob Rosenthal, Petoskey, Michigan.
W. Burnett Weaver, Miamisburg, Ohio.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
John William Miller, Sandusky, Ohio.
The Degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred on
Ralph Lawrence Palmer, Leavenworth, Kansas.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
Francis J. F. Confer, Altoona, Pennsylvania.
Albert S. F. Magruder, Cane Springs, Bullitt Co., Ky.
James B. Quinn, Springfield, Illinois.
James H. Browne, New Bedford, Mass.
University of Notre Dame.
Commercial Course.
DIPLOMAS WERE AAV ARD ED TO
Walter Loshbough, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Thomas J. Martin, Chicago, Illinois.
Eugene E. McCarthy, Chicago, Illinois.
Edward J. O’Malley, Albany, Missouri.
John M. Thiele, Monterey, Indiana.
Arthur Wolf, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Leo Van Hessche, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Guy R. Sample, Walnut, Illinois.
James M. Conway, Anamosa, Iowa.
Thomas M. Hoban, South Bend, Indiana.
Aloysius J. Lyons, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Certificates for Telegraphy were awarded to
Louis F. Hake, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Edward B. Falvey, St. Joseph, Buchanan Co., Mo.
Special Prize Medals.
The Quan Gold Medal, the highest award in the Classical
Course, Senior year, was awarded to
PAUL JEROME RAGAN,
Maumee, Ohio.
The Mason Medal for the student of Carroll Hall having the
best record for the scholastic year was awarded to
THOMAS J. MURRAY,
New York City.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated by the Hon.
William P. Breen of Fort Wayne was awarded to
CHARLES M. B. BRYAN
Memphis, Tennessee.
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, presented by
Mrs. James Meehan of Covington, Ky., was awarded to
THOMAS BURKE REILLY,
New York City.
124	University of Notre Dame.
The Rademacher Grand Gold Medal, donated by the Right
Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, for Christian Doctrine in
Brownson Hall, First Course, was awarded to
james h. McGinnis,
Medway, Mass.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall, First Course,
was awarded to
JOSEPH P. SHIELS,
Chicago, Illinois.
Special Courses.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall, donated by
the Hon. P. T. Barry, Chicago, was awarded to
THOMAS A. LOWERY,
Jackson, Michigan.
The Elocution Medal in Carroll Hall, was awarded to
FRANCIS X. DRUIDING,
Chicago, Illinois.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, Second
Course, was awarded to
LOUIS C. M. REED,
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Browson Hall, Third
Course, was awarded to
LOUIS M, FETHERSTONE,
What Cheer, Iowa.
St. Edward’s Hall.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
Noel L. Freeman.
The Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
L. Kent Weber.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Francis M. Welch.
University of Notre Dame.	125
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Charles H. Bode.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Arthur J. Phillips.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded to
Victor H. Steele.
The Gold Medal for Excellence in Studies was awarded to
Hugh McConnell.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to
Daniel B. Spillard.
The Silver Medal for Composition was awarded to
Arthur Allyn.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Thomas R. Fetter.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Frederick M. Weidmann.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Vocal Music was
awarded to
George S. Weidmann.
The Silver Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to
Lee G. Hubbard.
The Silver Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
James A. Van Dyke.
First Honor Awards.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brownson Halls
who have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for scholarship and
deportment during the scholastic year. The first honor awarded for the first
year takes the form of a diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory
work is a gold medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.]
Sorin Hall.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to Charles M. B.
Bryan, Memphis, Tenn.; Edward J. Mingey, Philadelphia,
Penn.: Thomas B. Reilley, New York City; Thomas A. Steiner,
Monroe, Michigan.
126
University of Notre Dame.
RENEWALS.
Julius A. Arce, Arequipa, Peru, South America; Eugene
A. Delaney, Lykens, Penn.
IHrst Honor Diplomas were awarded to Francis J. O’FIara,
Angel Island, Cal.; Jacob Rosenthal, Petoskey, Michigan.
Brownson Hall.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to John F. Daly,
Madison, South Dakota; Francis O’Shaughnessy, Chicago, Ill.;
James B. Quinn, Springfield, Illinois.
Deportment Prize Medals
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St.
Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose
deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
Carroll Hall.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to William F.
Dinnen, Francis X. Druiding, W. H. Nelson Maher, Ralph M.
Wilson, John V. Walsh, Eugene E. McCarthy, Charles J. Reuss.
St. Edward’s Hall.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to G. Francis
Van Dyke, Percy V. Cotter, Thomas Emmett McCarthy,
Willard T. Lovell, Joseph A. Coquillard, Leo J.- Garrity.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll and St.
Edward’s Halls, who have spent two full years at Notre Dame, and whose
deportment has given general satisfaction.]
Carroll Hall
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Louis B.
Beardslee, Francis D. Breslin, William B. Land, George W.
Leach, Edwin E. Elliott, Edmund F. Swan, Robert F. Mc-
Intyre, John M. Quinlan.
St. Edward’s Hall.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Wallace W.
Hall, Ralph W. Van Sant, Leport R. Van Sant, Grover C.
Davis, Louis W. McBride.
University of Notre Dame.	127
Deportment Certificates.
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and St. Edward’s
Halls, who have followed the courses of the University at least two terms,
and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
Carroll Hall.
Ricardo M. Armijo, Alphonsus M. Becker, Elmer Berger,
Francis X. Dellone, Ralph J. Ellwanger, Alvin L. Fish, Robert
S. Funk, Carlos Hinze, Irve Keiffer, Albert L. Krug, James E.
Morgan, Thomas E. Mulcare, Joseph E. Mulcare, Thomas J.
Murray, Thomas C. Nolan, Arthur H. Mueller, John F. Mor-
rissey, Francis E. McCallen, Edward J. O’Malley, Robert P.
O’Neill, Oliver E. Peterson, John F. Powers, John L. Putnam,
William F. Shea, Sylvester J. Sullivan, Arthur J. Schmitt, John
L. S. Slevin, Eugene A. Wagenman, H. St. Clair Ward, Cecil
H. Pulford, Dominic J. Padden, J. J. Murray.
St. Edward’s Hall.
William *B. Frost, Milton J. McMahon, John McMahon,
James McGeeney, Lester Burton, Stephen A. Trentman, George
A. Wilde, Lawrence K. Weber, Kenneth E. Casparis, Alva C.
Bosworth, George C. Beardslee, John L. McBride, James E.
Dorian, Clement G. Cressy, Hugh McConnell, Harold W.
Rennolds, Edgar J. Quertinmont, Francis E. Ebbert, Jesse L.
Griffith, George Cowie, John B. Ervin, Samuel A. Strauss, John
J. Abercrombie, William McMahon.
Military Commissions.
Commissions and Warrants wrere awarded to Cadet Captain
and Adjutant W. Burnett Weaver, Miamisburg, Ohio; Captain
Ernest L. Dugas, Washington, D. C.
First Lieutenant, Joseph M. Haley, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Second Lieutenant, Henry C. Stearns, Chicago, Illinois.
Sergeants Wm. T. Morris, Wheeling, West Virginia; James
G. Taylor, New .York City; Roy A. Murray, Chicago, Illinois;
Alfred A. Klein, Evansville, Indiana.
*
Chief Trumpeter, Eugene A. Wagenman, St. Louis, Mo.
128
University of Notre Dame.
Premium List.
Arce, Julius A.
Atherton. Chester H.
Barry, James D.
Bennett, Hunter M.
Bryan, Charles M. B.
Byrnes, James M.
Cavanagh, Thomas T.
Costello, Martin J.
Confer, Francis J. F.
Crilly, Edgar.
Delaney. Eugene A.
Fitzpatrick, Wm. AV.
Fagan, William A.
Geoghegan, Walter M.
Golden, Walter B.
Armijo, Justo L.
Arizpe, Hipolito C.
Berry, William A.
Berry, James E.
Brown, Robert E.
Brown, Edward C.
Baab, Charles J,
Brucker, S. Joseph.
Bouwens, SeraphineF.
Baloun, Joseph H.
Bommersbach, J. N.
Crawford, A. Roy.
Cavanagh, Thos. E.
Corby, Joseph E.
Campbell, Eugene.
Cypher, George A.
Crowley, William E.
Cullinane, Wilson H.
Conway, James M.
Collins, Edward D.
Cavanaugh, Jonn J.
Davies, Boaz C.
Dowd, John J.
Dominguez, Rafael.
Duffy, Peter.
Donovan, John C.
Daly, John F.
Dooley, Thomas J.
Sorin Hall.
Hesse, F.
Kegler, William C.
Lantry, Jesse W.
Medley, Thomas A.
Miller, John W.
Murphy, Elmer J.
Magruder, Albert S. J.
Mingey. Edward J.
McDonough, Wm. C.
McDonald, Stewart.
McNamara. John A.
O’Hara, Francis J.
O’Malley, Francis W.
O'Malley, Raymond G,
Brownson Hall.
Desmond, William J.
Davis, Harry M.
Ellison, Joseph E.
Fetherstone, Louis M.
Fadeley, Lew E.
Fox, Robert L.
Flannigan, Charles P.
Follen, Peter E.
Farrell, John R.
Flannigan, Michael J.
Fleming, Charles F.
Grady, William P.
Garza, Rodolfa M.
Gilbert, Edward J.
Guerra, Enrique L.
Gray, Homer H.
Gray, Charles H.
Hoban, Thomas M.
Hesse, Francis H.
Hake, Edward A.
Hake, Louis F.
Haley, Joseph M.
Hesse, John 0.
Hay, Edward F.
Hindel, William E.
Hurst, Oliver C.
Johnson, J. Gillespie.
Jurado, Louis.
Palmer, Ralph L.
Pulskamp, Edward H.
Piquette, Charles J.
Powers. Michael R.
Ragan, Paul J.
Rosenthal, Jacob.
Reilly, Thomas B.
Sullivan, Joseph V.
Steele, Sherman.
Sanders, James J.
Steiner, Thomas A.
Sheehan, William F.
Weaver, W. Burnett.
Wurzer, F. Henry.
Kidder, Thomas C.
Kraus, Jacob J.
Kearney, Peter E.
Koehler, John E.
Lyons, Aloysius J.
Long, Albert V.
Landers, John D.
Lowery, Thomas A.
Lutz, Ferdinand L.
Leib, Clarence C.
Mullen, John I.
Morris, William T.
Mulcrone, Charles J.
Monahan, William P.
Mueller, Henry W.
Monarch, Martin V.
Maurus, Emil A.
Massey, Wynter C.
Martin, Thomas J.
Miller, William R.
McCarrick, George P.
McCormack,Mich’l J.
McNichols, Francis J.
McGinnis, James H.
McConn, Eugene C.
McDonald, Angus D.
McKenzie, John H.
Nizier, Charles M.
University of Notre Dame.
129
Nye, Hubbard.
O’Shaughnessey, F.
O’Shaughnessey, M.
Pickett, Benjamin S.
Paras, Carlos.
Powell, Ralph E.
Pim. F. Howard.
Quinn, James B.
Quandt, Otto F.
Reinhard, Edward L.
Abrahams, George.
Armijo, Ricardo M.
Armijo, Pedro J.
Beardslee, Louis B.
Becker, Alphonse M.
Berger, Elmer.
Breslin, Francis D.
Burke, Elmer W.
Burns, Thomas D.
Brand, Leslie.
Cornel], Francis B.
Condon, Thomas P.
Corby, Clarence K.
Cowie, Gordon R.
Curry. Joseph P.
Curtis, Patrick A.
Conklin, Roscoe P.
Barst, Eddens J.
Dellone, Francis X.
Davidson, Alfred H.
Devine, Mark A.
Dinnen, William F.
Druiding, Francis X.
Drejer, Stanislaus P.
Dugas, Ernest L.
Delaney, James M.
Elliott, Edward E.
Ellwanger, Ralph J.
Ernst, Emil J.
Fennessey, John F.
Foley, Charles E.
Fox, Alvin J.
Fish, Leonard A.
Fish, Alvin L.
Funk, Robert S.
Frank, LeRoy A.
Friedman, Arthur.
Fleming, Henry J.
Garrity, L. McNellis.
Houck, Linn A.
Herron, Edward D.
Heffelfinger, Miles A.
Hinze, Carlos.
Herbert, Martin B.
Rowan, Joseph J.
Reed, Louis C. M.
Rahe, Henry J.
Smoger, Francis A.
Stuhlfauth, George.
Summers, Francis J.
San Roman, Jose.
Schulte, Fred W.
Spalding, Richard S.
Schuebert, Charles E.
Carroll Hall.
Kasper, Adam J.
Kasper, George W.
Kasper, Fred J.
Keiffer. Irve.
Kelly, Leo J.
Kiley, George P.
Kirkland, Charles W.
Klein, Alfred A.
Kilgallen, Tracy.
Krug, Alfred L.
Kuntz, Peter M.
Kuntz, John J.
Land, William B.
Leach, George W.
Lyle, Leon R.
Maher, W. H. Nelson.
Meagher, Louis.
Mohn, Adolph A.
Mooney, Francis T.
Morgan, James E.
Morrissey, John F.
Mulcare, Thomas E.
Mulcare, Joseph E.
Murray, Thomas J.
Murray, Joseph J.
Murray, Roy A.
Moxley, George T.
Mueller, Arthur H.
Merz, Arthur W.
Michels, Nicholas.
McCallen, Francis C.
McCarthy, Eugene E.
McDonell, Alex A.
McIntyre, Robert F.
McMahon, Owen J.
McMaster, Kenneth W •
McNamara, George F.
McNichols,William J.
McManus, Austin G.
Naughton,Thomas M.
Naughton, David A.
Nolan, Thomas C.
Noonan, Thomas E.
Newell, Albert A.
Thiele, John M.
Tomlinson, Charles A.
Tuohy, Joseph J.
Toba, Joaquin.
Ward, Walter M.
Wigg. Mayes G.
Wimberg, John G.
Wimberg, Henry A.
Zaehnle, Edward L.
Zaehnle, Otto A.
Nast, Edward C.
O’Brien, Francis B.
O’Brien, George J.
O’Malley, Edward J.
O’Neill Robert P.
Ordetx, Guillermo F.
Padden, Dominic J.
Peterson, Oliver E. J.
Pohlman, Edward J.
Powers, John F.
Pulford, Cecil H.
Putnam John L.
Pyle, Joseph.
Quinlan, John M.
Reuss, Charles J.
Richon, Alfred J.
Sample, Guy R.
Sanford, Benjamin C.
Scherrer, J. Garfield,
Scherrer, William W.
Schmitt, Arthur J.
Sheeky, Eugene A.
Sheeky, Joseph J.
Shea, William F.
Slevin, John L. S.
Stengel, Robert G.
Sullivan, Sylvester J.
Swan, Edmund F.
Szybowicz,Leonard F.
Swiney, Edward E.
Schwabe, Joseph M.
Taylor, James G.
Tong, Lucius G.
Wagenmann, E. A.
Ward, James A.
Walcott, Henry A.
Ward, H. St. Clair.
Ward, Francis R.
Waite, Francis W.
Walsh, John V.
Watterson, Theo. V.
Wells. Charles D.
Wilson, Ralph M.
<7
130
University of Notre Dame.
Abercrombie, John J.
Abrahams, Louis L.
Allyn, Arthur.
Arnold, Charles W.
Beardslee, George C.
Bode, Charles H.
Bode, Francis J.
Bosworth, Alva 0.
Butler, Thohaas J.
Burton, Lester.
Blanchfleld, Walter J.
Casparis, Kenneth E.
Clark, Robert.
Cotter, Percy V.
Cowie, George.
Coquillard, Joseph A.
Cressey, Clement G.
Ounnea, John J.
Craig, Harry A.
Davis, Grover C.
Dorian, James.
Dugas, Graham.
Dougherty. Phil. F. H.
Dessauer, Walter, J.P.
Ebbert, Francis E.
Ellis, Joel M.
Engleman, Henry B.
Ervin, John B.
Edgarton, Allen J.
Fetter, Thomas R.
Freeman, Noel L.
Frost, W. Barrett.
Fleischer, Oscar F.
Boylan, William.
Brogan, Anthony A.
Curran, Robert P.
Casey, A. B.
Cullinan, Joseph.
Crepau, William O.
Crepau, Frederick N.
Chambers, R.
Corry, J.
Dwyer, Vincent D.
Dorian, Francis P.
Barthel, George.
Boerner, Andrew.
Coyne, Claude A.
Darron, Andrew.
DeLorimier, Arthur G.
DeWulf, Emil.
Dwan, Patrick J.
Gallagher, Hugh.
Garski, Marcellinus.
Heiser, Leo J.
St. Edward’s Hall.
Frain, Francis, J.
Griffith, Jesse L.
Garrity, Leo J.
Hall, Wallace W.
Hart, Lawrence A.
Hubbard, Lee G.
Hinsey, John A.
Jonquet, Maurice A.
Keogh, R.
Keogh, F.
Kasper, Robert A.
Kelley, Charles J.
Lawton, Jasper H.
Lovell, Willard T.
Leisander, George.
Leclerque, Robert E.
Mathesius, G.
Manion, Percy J.
Manion, Edward L.
Monahan, Samuel H.
Monahan, Edward.
McBride, Paul H.
McBaide, Louis W.
McBride, John L.
McBride, William.
McCarthy, Thomas E.
McCarthy, J. Gerald.
McConnell, Hugh.
McMahon, Milton.
McMahon, John T.
McMahon, William J.
McMaster, H. Carlisle.
St. Joseph’s Hall.
Driscoll, Albert.
Dulin, Henry M.
Elitch, Charles J.
Fredell, George.
Fenton, James.
Hartzer, John O.
Jones, Vitus G.
Jones, Rufus P.
Kelly, James J.
Kachur, Albert.
Lyons, Francis H.
Holy Cross Hall.
Hennessey, John.
Long, Edward.
Marr, George J.
Marr, William J.
Moynihan, Patrick B.
McKeon, Frederick T.
McGrail, James V.
Nieuwland, Julius A.
Oswald, Mathias J.
McGeehey, James.
McGeeney, Edward.
Paul, Clement C.
Phillips, Arthur J.
Phillips, Francis J.
Quertinmont, Geo. A.
Quertinmont, Edgar J.
Rees, Harry.
Rennolds, Harold W.
Ryan, Raymond J.
Redpath, Teddy.
Reed, EL
Robbins. Wilson R.
Spillard, Daniel B.
Steele. Victor H.
Strauss, Samuel A.
Shields, John A.
Strong, Grover D.
Seymour, Gerald.
Tillotson, William K.
Trentman, Stephen A.
Van Sant, Ralph N.
Van Sant, Leport R.
Veneziani, Louis I.
Van Dyke, G. Francis.
Van Dyke, James A.
Welch, Francis M.
Weidmann, George S.
Weidmann, Fritz M.
Wilde, George A.
Weber, L. Kent.
Wigg, Clifford C.
Lynch, Robert E.
Loshbough, Walter.
Malone, William H.
McElligott, Peter E.
McIntyre, John E.
Neville, Maurice A.
Powers, William H.
Rockey, Charles A.
Sullivan, Joseph J.
Silver, John H.
Oswald, Michael M.
O’Brien, Peter L.
Ritter, Paul.
Roy, John J.
Schumacher, Mathew.
Szalewski,Nieceslaus.
Sntton, James R.
Trahey, John J.
Weisbacker, John.
University of Notre Dame.
Preliminary Exercises of the Fifty-Third
Annual Commencement.
Oratorical Contest
WEDNESDAY, JUNE 2, 1897.
MUSIC
Our Need of Naval Preparation,” Mr. Thomas Cavanagh,’97.
(Illinois).
American Naval Heroes,
Mr. Edward E. Brennan,’97.
(Indiana).
Christian Unity,
Mr. M. James Ney,’97.
(Colorado).
MUSIC.
Orestes A. Brownson,
(Tennessee).
Alexander Hamilton,
Mr. Sherman Steele,’97.
(Ohio).
MUSIC.
Judges:
Reverend Daniel J. Riordan, Chicago.
Reverend Hugh O’Gara McShane, LL. D.,’95.
Honorable John Gibbons, LL.D.,’86
132
University of Notre Dame.
Contest in Elocution.
FRIDAY, JUNE n, 1897.
SORIN AND BROWNSON, HALLS.
MUSIC.	.
“The Dandy Fifth,” -	-	-	- M. V. Monarch
“The Dying Alchemist,”	-	-	-	A. J. Duperier.
“Flying Jim’s Last Leap,”	-	-	-	- J. W. Lantry.
“Cataline’s Defiance,” -	-	-	-	C. M. Niezer.
“ The Corsican,” -	-	-	-	-	T. E. Lowery.
music.
CARROLL HALL.
“The Chariot Race,” -	-	-	- J. F. Morrissey.
“The Irish Disturbance Bill,” -	-	- G. L. T. Weadock.
Henry Grattan’s Reply to Mr. Corry, - F. X. Druiding.
music.
Judges:
Rev. Joseph Maguire, C. S. C.,
Rev. Joseph Just, C. S. C.,
Mr. Thomas A. Crumley, C. S. C.
University of Notre Dame.	133
Lawn Concerts
GIVEN BY
The University Band.
SUNDAY, JUNE 6, 1897.
PROGRAMME.
1.	March—“ Gold and Blue,” -	-	-	- Preston.
2.	Overture—“ Maritana,”	-	-	-	- Hermann.
3.	“ Peanut Dance,” ------ Wilson.
4.	“Gavotte — Hypatia,”	-	-	-	-	- Hume.
5.	“Laura Waltz,” ------ Meyrelles.
6.	“ Something to Adore,”—Schottisch,	-	- Bonheur.
7.	“ March of the Marines,” -	-	-	- Brooks.
8.	“Advance and Retreat of the Salvation Army,” - Orth.
9.	“American Patrol,” ----- Meacham.
10.	Waltz—“The Postilion,” -	-	- Arr.by Mtyrelles.
11.	Finale—“March N. D. U.”—First time. - Preston.
SUNDAY, JUNE 13, 1897.
PART I.
1.	March—“El Capitain,” ----- Sousa.
2.	Overture—“ Champion,”	-	-	-	- Hartmann.
3.	“ Andalusian Bolero,” -	-	-	- Bousquette.
4.	“ Chinese War March,” -	-	-	- Missttd.
5.	“Jolly Fellows.”—Waltz.	-	-	-	- Vollstedt.
6.	March—“N. D. U.”	------ Preston
134
University of Notre Dame. '
PART II.
1.	Overture—“Jolly Night,” -	-	- Arr. by Beyer.
2.	“Cavaleria Rusticana,” -	-	-	- Mascagni.
3.	Polka—“ Imitative,”	_____ Auvray.
4.	Selections—“Bohemian Girl,” -	-	-	- Balfe.
March—“The Thunderer,” ----- Sousa.

WEDNESDAY, JUNE 16, 1897.
I.	March—“ Gold and Blue,” -	-	-	- Preston.
2.	“American Overture,” ----- Galpin.
3.	“ Love’s Vesper Hour,” -	-	-	- Bonheur.
4.	“ Manana Chilian Dance,” -	-	-	- Missud.
5.	“Anvil Chorus,” ------- Verdi.
6.	“Sonambula,”—Selections.	-	- Arr. by Ringleben.
y. Waltz—“Jolly Fellows,” -	-	-	- Vollstedt.
8.	Gavotte—“The Queens,” -	-	-	- D'Alville.
9.	“Tribulations of a Band Master,” -	- Hermann.
10.	March—“ N. D. U.”	-	-	-	-	- Preston.
University of Notre Dame.
135
Annual Examinations.
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, June 14-16.
Board of Examiners.
{Under the Supervision of Rev. President Morrissey.)
Classical and English Courses.
Rev. N. J. Stoffel, presiding; Rev. S. Fitte, Rev. J. Scheier,
Rev. J. Cavanaugh, Prof. J. F. Edwards, Prof. William Hoynes,
Prof. Austin O’Malley, Prof. L. McGriskin, Prof. J. G. Ewing,
secretary.
Scientific and Engineering Courses.
Rev. A. M. Kirsch, presiding; Rev. J. Kirsch, Rev. J. Burns,
Prof. F. X. Ackermann, Prof. J. J. Green, Prof. C. Veneziani,
Prof. W. L. Benitz, Mr. F. Powers, Prof. M. J. McCue, secretary.
Law Course.
Prof. William Hoynes, presiding; Rev. J. J. French, Rev. A.
M. Kirsch, Rev. S. Fitte, Hon. A. L. Brick, secretary; Prof. G.
E. Clarke, Prof. J. G. Ewing.
Commercial Course.
Rev. W. Moloney, presiding; Rev. E. P. Murphy, Bro. Alex-
ander, Bro. Philip Neri, Prof. E. J. Maurus, secretary; Mr. D.
Murphy.
Preparatory Course.
(BROWNSON HALL.)
Rev. J. J. French, presiding; Bro. Leander, secretary; Bro.
Emmanuel, Prof. Preston, Mr. J. B. Murphy, Mr. C. P. Mac-
Hugh, Mr. F. J. Schillo.
Preparatory Course.
(CARROLL HALL.)
Rev. M. J. Regan, presiding; Mr. A. W. Stace, secretary;
Bro. Boniface, Bro. Alexander, Bro. Hugh, Bro. Cajetan, Bro.
Alphonsus, Bro. Cyprian.
University of Notre Dame.
Fifty-Third
Annual Commencement
OF
The University of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Sunday, June 13th.
8:00 A.M.— Solemn High Mass,
o
Baccalaureate Sermon by the Rev. Maurice J. Dorney, LL.D.,’96.
2:00 p. M.—Solemn Benediction and Te Deum.
Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday, June 14th-16tli.
EXAMINATIONS.
Tuesday, 7:30 P. M.
Illumination and Band Concert at St. Joseph’s Lake.
Wednesday, June 16th.
8:00 a. m.— Closing Examinations.
10:00 a. m.—Regatta.
12:00	M.— Dinner.
2:30 p. M.— Calisthenic Exercises in St. Edward’s Gymnasium,
and Field Sports on Brownson Hall Campus.
4:00 p. m.— Closing Exercises at St. Edward’s Hall.
6:00 p. m.— Supper.
7:00 p. M.— Band Concert.
University of Notre Dame
137
Wednesday, 7:30 P. M.
Coitimenceiiieiit Exercises in Washington Hall.
Overture—“ The Hope of Alsace,” -	Hermann.
University Orchestra.
Chorus—“Let the Hills and Vales Resound,” - Richards.
University Chorus.
Bachelors’ Discourses.
“ AMERICAN PROTAGONISTST
I	.— Oration. -	-	- “In Literature: Longfellow.”
Mr. Thomas B. Reilly, (New York).
Flute Solo—“Grande Fantaisie,” opus 33,	-	- Bohm.
Mr. Edward J. Rauch,
Accompanist, Mr. Francis F. Dukette.
II	.— Oration, -	- “In Statesmanship: Hamilton.”
Mr. Sherman Steele, (Ohio).
Concert Selection—“The Sea Sprites,” -	-	- Preston.
University Mandolin Orchestra.
III	.— Oration, -	-	- “In Philosophy: Brownson.”
Mr. Charles M. B. Bryan, (Tennessee).
Quartette—“Sweetest Time for Dreaming,” - Mohring.
Mr. Francis W. Barton,
Mr. Frederick J. Schillo,
Mr. Thomas A. Steiner,
Mr. William C. Kegler.
ORATION OF THE DAY,
The Right Reverend Monsignor Joseph F. Mooney, LL. D.,’96,
New York City.
138
University of Notre Dame.
Thursday, June 17th.
8:30 a. m.
Quartette, _____ “Home Sweet Home,”
Air. Francis B. Barton,	Mr. Thomas A. Steiner,
Air. Frederick J. Schillo,	Mr. William C. Kegler.
Class Poem, _	_	_	_ Mr. James D. Barry, (Illinois).
Valedictory, -	Mr. Joseph V. Sullivan, (Illinois).
Awarding of Honors and Conferring of Degrees.
Finale—“N. D. U. March,” ----- Preston.
University Band.
Ube_______________
metre Wame
Scholastic,
Is the title of a neat 28-page paper, devoted to the interests
of the students, and is published at the University every week ‘
during Term time. This journal opens a field for young writers
who might otherwise, for want of a proper medium, allow their
talents to remain inactive.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry,
Notes on-. Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notes of New
Publications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has a
special importance for students, their parents, and all who
have attended classes at the University in times past, on account
of the weekly summary of events happening at Notre Dame,
personal notices of former students, Rolls of Honor, Class
Honors, List of Excellence, etc., which appear in its columns
every week. Reports relative to the arrangement of classes,
the promotion of the more talented and energetic students,
etc., also find a place in this paper, and keep parents and others
informed on all that concerns their children and friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors during the coming
year to meet the encouragement given the paper in the past,
and the encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
t 9 9 • 9
$1.50 Per Annum, Postpaid.
99999
Address, THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
St* Maryas Seademy *
One Mile West of the
University of Notre Dame.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY for young ladies, now entering upon its
forty-third year of active educational work, has earned the repu-
tation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped and successful
institutions in the United States. The location is on the dividing
ridge of the St. Lawrence and Mississippi river systems, in the
highest and healthiest part of the state. The Academy buildings—large,
well ventilated and commodious, heated with steam, supplied with hot
and cold water, and with fire escapes of the latest and best kind—are
beautifully situated on an eminence overlooking the picturesque banks of
the St. Joseph River.
All the branches of a thorough English and Classical education are
taught by a Faculty of competent teachers. Latin, French and German,
Plain Sewing, and every variety of Fancy Needlework are taught without
extra charge. Book-keeping in the regular course; Phonography and
Typewriting extra.
The Conservatory of Music is conducted on the plan of the best
Classical Conservatories of Europe. Three instrumental lessons, and one
in theory, weekly, are included in the regular tuition; extra practice
pro rata.
The Art Department is modelled after the best Art Schools in Europe.
Preparatory and Minim Departments.—Pupils who need primary
training, and those of tender age, are here carefully prepared for the
Academic Course.
For catalogue containing full information, address,
Directress) ©f the Academy^
Academy.
©ame I®* ©e?i tod*
INDEX.
The University of Notre Dame.........................Frontispiece
Board of Trustees.............................................. 3
Officers of the University...................................   4
Assistant Prefects of Discipline............................... 4
The Faculty.................................................... 5
Assistant Professors and Instructors........................... 7
Teachers in Preparatory Departments............................ 8
Department of Fine Arts........................................ 9
Notre Dame University........................................  10
Historical—Material Equipment of the University—Surroundings
—Accessibility—Discipline— General Remarks.
Expenses.....................................................  20
Graduation Fee................................................ 21
Programme of Studies:
Preparatory Department.................................... 22
Collegiate Department.—Classical Course................... 28
English Course........................................     33
General Science Course.................................... 38
School of Civil Engineering..............................  43
' Course in Electrical Engineering.......................   50
Course in Mechanical Engineering.......................... 55
Course in Biological Science.............................. 60
Law Department—Faculty.................................... 65
- Commercial Course.......................................... 75
Modern Languages.......................................... 78
Miscellaneous................................................. 80
Physical and Natural Sciences — Institute of Technology—Lan-
guages—Telegraphy and Typewriting—Phonography or Short-
hand— Elocution — Lecture and Concert Course—Drawing—
Music—Reading Rooms—The Lemonnier Library.
Sorin Hall.................................................... 87
Minim Department.............................................. 89
Discipline—Societies—General Remarks.
Expenses.................................................. 92
Catalogue of Students......................................... 93
Associated Alumni............................................ 107
College Societies:
Religious................................................. IOS
Literary.................................................. 113
Law....................................................... 114
Athletic.................................................. 115
Military .............................................     116
Musical,.................................................. 118
Conferring of Degrees......................................... 122
Commercial Diplomas........................................... 123
Special Prize Medals.......................................... 123
Honor Awards ................................................. 125
First Honor Gold Medals—Deportment Prize Medals—Deportment
Certificates—Military Commissions........................
Premium List.............................................      128
Preliminary and Annual Commencement Exercises:
Oratorical Contest................................................ 131
Contest in Elocution........................................ 132
Lawn Concerts University Band............................... 133
Annual Examinations.......................................   135
Fifty-Third Annual Commencement Exercises........ 136