CATALOGUE
1897-1898
E A W	i
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Notre Dame,Indiana.
CATALOGUE
OF THE
UNIVERSITY
OF NOTRE DAME
1897-1898 ■
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY—Address:
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hate in which the Student lives ought to be
added.
There is a Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, and an Express
Office at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South Bend,
Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago. The
Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk, the
Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, and the Michigan
Central railways run directly into South Bend.
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
1898
2
Calendar
SEPTEMBER 6.
7-8.
9.
18.
OCTOBER . 13.
28-29.
29.
NOVEMBER 1.
24.
30.
DECEMBER . 8.
19-20.
21.
JANUARY . 5.
FEBRUARY 22.
24-25.
MARCH . . 17.
19.
APRIL . . 2.
3.
28-29.
MAY ... 15.
26.
30.
31.
JUNE ... 10.
11.
12-14.
14.
15.
of the University for 1898-^99.
Fxaminations of Conditioned Students.
Entrance Examinations.
Schools Begin.
Reading of University Regulations in all the
Halls.
Founder’s Day. Holiday;
Bi-Monthly Examinations.
Annual Retreat begins in the Fvening.
Feast of All Saints. Holiday.
Thanksgiving Day. Holiday.
President’s Day. Holiday.
Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Holiday.
Winter Examinations.
Christmas Vacation Begins.
Schools Begin.
Washington’s Birthday. Holiday.
Bi-Monthly Examinations.
St. Patrick’s Day. Holiday.
St. Joseph s Day. Holiday.
Faster Day. No Vacation at Easter.
Faster Monday. Holiday.
Bi-Monthly Fxaminations.
Latest Date for handing in Prize and Graduation
Fssays.
Contest in Flocution.
Decoration Day. Holiday.
Contest in Oratory.
Fxamination of Graduates Begins.
Baccalaureate Sermon.
General Fxaminations.
Commencement. Preliminary Fxercises,
7:30 P. M.
Graduation Fxe cises, 8:00 A. M.
3
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
•^*5
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
secretary.
Bro. EDWARD, C. S. C.,
treasurer.
4
Executive Officers of the University»
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE. ,
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
secretary.
Bro. JOSEPH, C. S. C.,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
5
DIRECTORS OF HALLS.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Rev. F. LINNEBORN, C. S. C., D. D.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. JAMES BURNS, C. S. C.
Bro. URBAN, C. S. C. Bro. GREGORY, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C. Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C. Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C. Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C. Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
Bro. BONIFACE, C. S. C. Bro. CELSUS, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C. Bro. JEROME, C. S. C.
Bro. GUY, C. S. C.
6
PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSBY, C. S. C.,
Bvidences of Religion.
Rev. JAMBS J. BRBNCH, C. S. C.,
Batin and Bnglish.
Rev. MARTIN J. RBGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ABBXANDBR M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. NICHOBAS STOBBBB, C. S. C.,
Greek Banguage and Biterature.
Rev. STANISBAUS BITTB, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. JOHN B. SCHBIBR, C. S. C.,
Batin Banguage and Biterature and German.
Rev. JAMBS D. COBBMAN, C. S. C.
Batin.
Rev. BDWARD P. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Rhetoric.
Rev. JAMBS A. BURNS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
8
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
W WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Commercial Law.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., EL. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
History and Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
AUSTIN O’MALLEY, M. D., Ph. D., LL. D.,
English Literature.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Physics and Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
CHARLES VENEZIANI, Ph. D.,
Romance Languages.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
Anatomy and Physiology. (House Physician.')
FRANCIS XAVIER CARMODY, A. B.,
Elocution.
FRANCIS J. POWERS, B. S.,
Biology.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	9
GEORGE E. CLARKE, A. M., LL. M.,
Phonography.
Bro. BONIFACE, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
German.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
CHARLES PERCY MacHUGH, A. B.,
Latin and English.
FREDERICK J. SCHILLO, B. S.,
English.
PAUL J. RAGAN, A. B.,
Greek.
FRANCIS EARLE HERING, Litt. B.,
English.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director of Musical Department.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
IO	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
NEWTON A. PRESTON, Mus. Bach.,
Vocal Music, Director of Band and Orchestras.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Drawing.
M. JAMES H. NEY, LiTT. B.,
Telegraphy.
wieeiam mcdonough,
* *
Typewriting.
JULIUS A. ARCE,
Spanish.
RALPH L. PALMER, E. E.,
Assistant in Physics.
S. FRANCIS BAUWENS,
Assistant in Shop-Work.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C. Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C.S.C. Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C. Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
Bro. JEROME, C. S. C. Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. BENJAMIN, C. S. C. Bro. HIPPOLYTUS, C.S.C.
PAUL BEYER,
F	1
Gymnastics.
FRANCIS EARLE HERING, Bitt. B.,
Instructor in Athletics.
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the year
1842, by the Very Reverend Fdward Sorin, the late Superior
General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. In an act
approved January 15, 1844, the Legislature of Indiana gave
the University power to grant degrees. The beginning of
this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana} That Bdward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse,
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate and
politic, by the name and style of the * University of Notre
Dame du Lac,’ and by that name they shall have perpetual
succession, with full power and authority to confer and grant,
or cause to be conferred and granted, such degrees and
diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences, and in law and
medicine, as are usually conferred and granted in other
Universities in the United States, provided, however, that
no degree shall be conferred or diplomas granted, except to
students who have acquired the same proficiency in the
liberal arts and sciences, and in law and medicine, as is
customary in other Universities in the United States. ’ ’
11
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE MAIN BUILDING.
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it is
five stories in height, and it is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls, some
dormitories and class-rooms and the refectories are in this
building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial Hall are
also there temporarily. This building, like all others in the
University, is lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by
steam. The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gregori. All the University buildings
are made of yellow brick.
THE CHURCH.
This building is 275 by 120 feet in ground dimensions and
125 feet in height from the ground to the roof-ridge. The
interior is decorated by Gregori, and the architecture is
Gothic. There is a large crypt and many chapels. In the
tower are a chime of 32 bells and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8:00 A. M. to 9:00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and about
100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the Musical
department, the reading rooms for Brownson and Carroll
Halls, and the University Theatre. The Theatre is equipped
with stage settings, and it will contain 1,200 persons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. The
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the build-
ing, is occupied by the Museum containing mineral, fossil,
and biological specimens.
THE CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first and second floors
of Science Hall.
On the second floor, and adjoining the General Museum,
is a large and well lighted room reserved for a library and
chemical museum. Here are a library of chemical journals
and books, and a steadily increasing collection of minerals,
chemicals, and chemical-technical products of all kinds,
designed to serve as illustrations of substances and processes
discussed in the various lecture courses. Adjoining this
room are, successively, an apparatus-room, filled with the
most modern apparatus for lecture and experimental work;
a chemical store-room, where laboratory supplies may be
procured by the students; a lecture-room, and a laboratory
for General Experimental Chemistry and Qualitative
Analysis. The laboratory is furnished with four hoods, of
good draught; the desks are provided with water, gas, and
the necessary reagents, and can furnish accommodation for
fifty students. The lecture-room is provided, among other
things, with apparatus for stereopticon illustration, with
electric batteries, and with a complete set of charts illus-
trative of the processes employed in modern chemical
industries.
On the first floor of the building, to the left, is the labo-
ratory of Quantitative and Organic Chemistry, provided
with ample hood accommodation, and with each desk fur-
nished with water, gas, and suction. The balance-room,
adjoining, contains assay and analytical balances, sensitive
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
to one ten-thousandth gram. The assay and furnace-room,
on the same floor, is equipped with a set of gas furnaces of
the most modern type, for the operations of roasting, fusing,
scorifying and cupelling employed in the dry assay of ores.
The Department of
PHYSICS AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture room,
with a seating capacity for sixty-five students, adjoining the
rooms in which the apparatus is stored in dust-proof cases.
Several smaller rooms in the basement contain heavy piers
of masonry, for work with sensitive galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Laboratories:
IN MECHANICS, ETC.:
Large physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard meter,
Geneva cathetometer,
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit chronograph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Rotary air pump and receivers.
IN ACOUSTICS:
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
Set of electrically-operated tuning
forks by Koenig,
A Scott-Koenig phonautograph,
Koenig’s movable turning forks to
draw compound curves on
smoked glass,
Three sets of organ pipes,
Four sets of fine tuning forks,
Edison phonograph,
Apparatus for manometric obser-
vation of sound phenomea,
Sets of vibrating rods, tubes and
bells,
Large double siren.
IN LIGHT:
Complete set of diffraction and in-
terference apparatus by Soleil,
Paris,
Sets of polarizing apparatus,
Sets of lenses and spherical mir-
rors,
Two heliostats,
Four spectroscopes,
A polarizing saccharimeter,
Three projecting lanterns for gas
or electric light, and 2,000
slides.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
Two Rowland gratings, 14,000 Several cameras with lenses and
lines to the inch,	attachments,
Sets of photographs of solar spec- A well equipped dark-room for
trum by Rowland,	photographic work.
IN HEAT:
Melloni’s apparatus for measuring
radiation, absorption and re-
flection of heat, complete with
prepared substances,
Standard thermometers,
Air thermometer,
Steam engine indicator,
Calorimeters.
IN ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM:
An absolute electrometer,
Holtz machine and apparatus for
illustrating static phenomena,
Ten galvanometers of various
types,
Ammeters and voltmeters,
One 2,000 lb. electro magnet,
Four induction coils,
Six bridges of different types,
Historical set of motors showing
evolution of the modern ma-
chine from the early forms of
the reciprocating type,
Standard resistance coils,
Set of storage cells,
Complete X-ray outfit.
In addition to the electrical apparatus m the Depart-
ment of Physics, the equipment for the practical work in
Electrical Engineering consists of engines, dynamos and
instruments of commercial size, as follows:
A high frequency 1000 V, 33 K.
W., composite wound, Wood
alternator of the latest type,
with exciter and a full set of
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of different
capacity,
An Edison bipolar 15 X. W. 125 V,
generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and fif-
teen lamps,
An Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125 V,
with special winding,
A Van Depoele compound wound
dynamo,
A power or foot lathe with wood
turning tools, drills and hand
tools for metals,
A set of wood working tools,
A set of tools for metal working,
Telegraph and telephone appara-
tus,
Standard portable bridge,
Common portable bridge,
Kohlrausch bridge for measuring
battery resistance, etc.,
Testing battery,
D’Arsonval and common galvano-
meters,
Resistance boxes, standard meg-
ohms, etc.,
i6
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME-
A senes wound dynamo with,
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors,
A forty horse power high speed
automatic engine,
A plug switchboard controlling all
circuits,
A calibrating lamp rack,
A small engine belted to shafting
to drive a plating dynamo and
a buffer for cleaning and pol-
ishing work to be plated; solu-
tions, tank, etc.,—in all a com-
plete outfit for electrotypic work,
A number of ammeters and volt-
meters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current measure-
ments,	’
A set of inclined coil alternate
current portable instruments;
voltmeter, ammeter and watt-
meter,
A case of marked samples of wire
insulators, lamps, and other
construction materials,
Library of practical technical
books of reference and files of
leading periodicals.
EQUIPMENT IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF BIOLOGY,
GEOLOGY, AND MINERALOGY.
The Department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-graduate
students. All the class-rooms are furnished with charts and
models necessary in teaching the different courses. The
arrangement of the windows is such that the rooms can be
easily darkened for the use of a stereopticon and a complete
set of lantern slides on the subjects of Botany, Zoology>
and Physiology.
The Laboratories are well equipped with compound and
dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a library
of books pertaining to Biological subjects. The Botanical
laboratory contains twenty-four compound microscopes and
all the requisite accessories for work in vegetable histology
and cryptogamic botany. The general laboratory of micro-
scopy, histology and embryology is also supplied with
compound microscopes and their necessary accessory appa-
ratus and other equipments indispensable in the three
courses mentioned above.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
17
The Bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterlizers, and all
the improved apparatus employed in thorough and careful
work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a laboratory
of Photo-Micrography which contains a perfect photo-
micrographic instrument with a complete set of accessory
apparatus for experimentation, photographing microscopic
objects, making lantern-slides, etc. A large and fully
equipped dark-room adjoins this laboratory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-rooms,
and laboratories for the courses in Geology and Mineralogy.
The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms are well equipped
for work in blow-pipe analysis and assaying.
THE MUSEUM,
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The Zoological collection
on the second floor at present fills sixteen large cases
and represents typical forms of all the orders and genera of
vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large collection of
representative vertebrate skeletons has recently been added
to this part of the Museum.
The Botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of two
complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the other of
Canada. There is also a second collection of the woods
and fruits of the United States, almost complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a care-
fully classified collection of minerals and ores. The opposite
series of cases contains a large Geological collection; some
of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil remains of
animal and plant life.
i8
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
ENGINEERING HALL.
The building set apart for the students of Engineering
is situated directly south of Science Hall. It is a large
three-story brick building, well lighted and heated and was
carefully designed for the special purpose it serves. Of the
three stories, the upper two are divided into lecture, recita-
tion and drawing rooms. These are used exclusively by the
Engineering students and are admirably arranged to meet
their needs.
The wood shop, machine shop and blacksmith shop are
on the first floor. The wood shop is supplied with modern
work-benches fully equipped with the smaller tools necessary
for carpentry, twelve lathes, for turning, a jigsaw, a revolv-
ing planer, a ciicular saw, and a mortising machine,—the
whole forming an adequate equipment for a thorough mastery
of scroll work and pattern making. The machine shop con-
tains two steam engines, one horizontal, the other vertical,
and from these power is distributed to the various machines
by a line of shafting running the entire length of the build-
ing, The latest improved lathes have been provided, nine
in number, varying from a five inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe of ten inch swing, with sixteen foot
bed. Two drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine,
and a Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the
equipment, thus making the machine shop a model of its
kind. The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding, and tool-making.
The southern portion of the second story of this Hall
is used for the
CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The equipment of this department is sufficient for all the
practice and exercises in the field necessary to illustrate and
teach the practical methods of engineering. The instru-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
mental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit, one engi-
neer’s transit, with level and vertical circle attached to
telescope, one engineer’s wye level, plane table with all the
attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, etc.
SORIN HALL.
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings 112
feet in depth. It has a basement and three high stories.
The building contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished and students of the
Senior or Junior classes of any of the Collegiate Courses are
not required to pay rent. On the first floor there is a chapel,
a law lecture-room and a law library. The building is
lighted with electricity and heated with steam. In the base-
ment are a recreation room and bath rooms.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This building has a revolving dome with an equatorial
telescope to which the students of Astronomy have access.
The transit-room and the computing-room contain the
smaller instruments and the works of reference.
THE INFIRMARY.
This building is 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height. The rooms in this building
are for the use of students during illness. The sick are
nursed by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University
physician visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM.
The old gymnasium was found unsuitable for the needs of
the University and a new building was begun during the
past spring. This new gymnasium will have a track-hall
102 feet by 156 feet on the ground and 25 feet high. This
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
will contain the baseball net, and will be used also for basket-
ball and handball, and military drill. There will be a
gymnastic room 100 by 36 feet, and below that a room of the
same size, containing baths, dressing-rooms, office, and
rubbing-room.
OTHER BUILDINGS.
There is a number of other large buildings connected with
the University; of these the principal are: Saint Joseph’s
Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House, the Presby-
tery, and Saint Edward’s Hall.
Parents, guardians, and kinsfolk of the students are
always welcome as guests of the University while visiting
Notre Dame.
DISCIPLINE.
Official bi-monthly reports of each student’s class standing
will be sent to parents and guardians.
The Faculty maintains that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of a
youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible to
bring about this development where students are granted
absolute relaxation from all Faculty government while out-
side the class-room. A young man must learn obedience to
law by the actual practice of obedience, not by mere
theoretical appeals to honor and a non-existant virtue of
obedience.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtainable except when
discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown to be salutary
by experience, are enforced at the University:
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds without
permission from the President or the person delegated to
represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students during
the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity. There is
no Vacation at Easter.
Students are required to report at the University
immediately after their arrival at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year, but
at all other times when leave of absence has been granted.
Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked upon as a serious
violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in examina-
tions, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the use oj
profane and odscene language and uiiauthorized absence from
the college limits are among the causes for expulsion. In
a case of suspension or expulsion for such offences, no fees
will be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discontinued
without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to those
students of Sorin and Brownson Halls that have received
from their parents written permission to use tobacco.
7.	While students of all religious denominations are received
into the University, it is nevertheless a strictly Catholic institu-
tion, and all students are required to attend divine service in
the College Church at stated times.
8.	The use of intoxicating liquors is strictly prohibited.
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9.	To guard against all clandestine and improper corre-
spondence, the President reserves the right to supervise
letters to and from students.
10.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of study
will not be permitted, but students are expected to take part
in outdoor sports and other games.
11.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
12.	All athletic associations of the students are strictly
forbidden to countenance anything that savors of profes-
sionalism.
13.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin Hall
leads to forfeiture of rooms.
14.	All athletics will be governed by a Faculty Board of
Control in conjunction with the Students’ Committee. The
President of the University and members of the Faculty will
compose the Administrative Board, and reserve the right of
a final determination of all questions concerning athletics.
The Students’ Committee will represent the student body as
heretofore. The Faculty Board will determine the amateur
standing of the members of the athletic teams, and apportion
the finances. The President of the University, who is
Chairman of the Faculty Board, will keep in close touch with
all departments of athletics through the Physical Director
who shall be reponsible to the President only.
By this means indiscreet and unconsidered actions of the
students will be checked, and athletics put on an equal foot-
ing with those of other universities.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
23
MEDALS AND HONORS.
The Quan Gold Medal is awarded yearly to the student
in the Senior Class of the Classical Course that has the
highest average rate over 80 per centum.
The Meehan Gold Medal, founded by Mrs. J. Meehan, of
Covington, Ky., is awarded to a Senior student in the
English or Classical Course for an English Essay. This
medal is awarded only when the best essay has attained a
fixed standard.
The Breen Gold Medal, founded by Mr. William P. Breen,
of Eort Wayne, is awarded for Oratory.
The Rademacher Gold Medal, founded by the Bishop of
Port Wayne, is-awarded to the student of Brownson Hall
having the highest average in Christian Doctrine.
The Barry Medal, founded by Mr. P. T. Barry, of
Chicago, is awarded in Brownson Hall for Elocution.
First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brown-
son Halls that have maintained throughout the year an
average of at least 90 per centum for class-work and observ-
ance of regulations. A first-honor man for the first year
receives a diploma, the second year a gold medal. The
medal may be received also during the succeeding year of
the course.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Each winter eminent men are invited to lecture before the
students. Concerts are also given monthly by organizations
from without.
24
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance), .... $ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern Languages
included), Lodging, Washing, and Mending of Linens,
per Session of nearly Ten Months,............................... 300.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On entrance in September, • $200.00
January 15th,	....	100.00
The charge of $300 covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100 per
Scholastic Year. No portion of this latter sum will be returned when
students are dismissed before the close of the year, or leave for any
other cause than ill health. Degrees will not be conferred on any
student whose account with the University has not been settled.
Students who enter after September 20th are charged pro rata from
the date of their entrance until July 1, 1899.
SPECIAL STUDIES.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves to the
regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the following
may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year. The charges
will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Mudc—Les-
sons on Piano and use of
Instrument.............$45	00
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,
Flute, Cornet, Clarionet
and Mandolin............. 25	00
Use of each Instrument. — 5 00
Vocal Culture............ 30	00
Biocution—Special Course. 10 00
Use of Library............ 2	00
“Scholastic,” College paper 1 50
Artistic Drawing......... 20	00
Telegraphy............... 20	00
Typewriting—Full Course
(21 lessons).............. 5	00
Phonography.............. 20	00
Practical Mechanics...... 30 00
Chemical Analysis........ 10 00
Elementary Chemistry,—
lecture course..........$	2 50
Elementary Chemistry,—
laboratory course....... 5	00
Elementary Physics,—lec-
ture course.............. 2	50
Physical Laboratory..... 20	00
Use of Apparatus in Miner- 5	00
alogical Laboratory... 5	00
Use of Apparatus in Botan-
ical Laboratory.......... 5	00
Use of Apparatus in Biolog-
ical Laboratory.......... 5	00
Applied Electricity.....40	00
Special Lecture and Con-
cert Course.............. 2	00
Gymnastics — Full Course
(20 lessons)........	5 00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
GRADUATION FEE.
(Payable before Commencement.)
Classical Course, $10; Course in Science, $10; Course in
Biology, $10; Special Course in English, $10; Law Course,
$10; Civil Engineering Course, $ 10; Course in Mechanical
Engineering, $10; Course in Electrical Engineering, $10;
Commercial Course, $5.
REMARKS.
The Entrance fee, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory
fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittances should be made by draft, postoffice money
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange
will be charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Brownson, Sorin, and Carroll Halls are closed during the
months of July and August,
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the
University, a limited number of students aspiring to the
ecclesiastical state can be received at special rates. Buller
information can be obtained by addressing the President.
The year f9Z^99 will open on Tuesday, September 6tlu
Courses of Instruction.
COURSES IN PHILOSOPHY.
L
LOGIC.
(Q* L) Formal Logic or Argumentation, (a) Notions;
Ideas; Perception; Concept; Universals. (f) Judgment and
Proposition; Classification of Propositions, (f) Reasoning
and Syllogism; other kinds of Arguments; Probable Reas-
oning. (V) Sophisms; Scholastic Disputation.
(Q. 2.) Material Logic or Certitude; different kinds of
Certitude, (zz) Existence of Certitude; Refutation of gen-
eral Scepticism. (#) Evidence and Standard of Truth;
Criterion of Certitude, (f) Certitude of the Mental Powers.
(d} Authority and Human Testimony; Value of Historical
Bvidence concerning present and past Facts; Oral Tradition
and History; Witnesses of Supernatural facts; Universal
consent on Moral Truths.
[Five hours a week for one term.~\
IL
(a)	Ontology—(g- -f.) The Nature of Being; Its trans-
cendental Character; It essentially differs from God; Essence
and Existence; the first three Principles of Philosophy,
(g. 2.} The essential Attributes of Being; Unity and Mul-
titude; Individual and Principle of Individuation; Truth
and Falsehood; Goodness and Evil; Beauty. (Q. 3.) Cate-
gories; Substance and Accidents; Nature; Person; Intrinsic
Accidents; Quantity and Dimensions; Quality and Its
Aspects; Relation and Contingency; Extrinsic Accidents;
Action and Passion; Space and Time; Position and Dress.
27
28
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
(Q. 4-} chief Relation of Being; Cause and Effect;
Principle and Causality. (Q. 5.) The highest Perfections
of Being; , Simplicity; Infinity; Necessity; Immutability.
(b)	Cosmology—(Q. z.) Constitutive Elements of Mat-
ter ; Atomism; Dynamism; Theory of Matter and Form ;
Essence of Matter among Creatures; The Natural Laws and
their Characters; Miracles; Origin of the Universe; Crea-
tion proved by Reason; Perfection of the Universe; Opti-
mism; Destiny of the Universe.
(c)	PSYCHOLOGY.
Experimental Psychology—(Q. z.) Sense—Perception;
Description of Senses and Organs; Personal Affections;
Love and Pleasure; Social Emotions; Passions; Sentiments
of the True, the Beautiful, the Good, the Infinite. (Q- 2}
Psychological Consciousness; Descartes; Pure Reason; Kant.
(Q. 3.) Memory and Imagination; Association of Ideas;
Mental Operations. QQ. /.) Origin of Ideas; Idealism;
Sensism ; Phenomenalism ; Traditionalism ; Ontologism ;
Aristotelism. (Q. 5.) Human Activity and Instinct; Will
and Free-Will; Demonstration of Moral Liberty; Habit and
Virtue.
Rational Psychology—(Q. z.) Nature of Self; Simplic-
ity and Spirituality of the Soul. (g. 2.) Unity of the
Human Soul. (Q. 3.) Materialism; Pantheism; Monism;
Traducianism; Metempsychosis; Creationism; Darwin and
Herbert Spencer; Evolution. (Q. Immortality of the
Soul; Resurrection of the Body.
(d)	Theodicy—(Q. J?.') The Existence of God proved by
reason alone; the Nature of God and His Perfections. ( Q. 2.)
Divine Providence, (g. 5.) Atheism; Dualism; Old and
Modern Pantheism; Naturalism; Spontaneous Generation;
Agnosticism. (g. </•) The correct idea of a Personal God.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
The whole Course of Philosophy is taught by Lectures,
according to the principles of St. Thomas, harmonized when
possible with the latest discoveries in the Mathematical,
Physical and Natural Sciences.
[Five hours a week for one termf
in.
Principles of Ethics—z-) Man’s last End and Happi-
ness; the Purpose of Man in this Life. (2- Human
Acts; Responsibility; Merit; Obstacles to Human Acts.
(2- 3 3 Origin of Morality; Hedonism; Altruism; Sympathy;
Essential Difference between Good and Evil; the Constitu-
ents of Moralty; the Eternal Law. (^. /.) The Natural
Moral Law; its Existence and Characters; Evolution. (^.5.)
The Positive Law. (g- d.) On Conscience; Good Faith;
Doubtful Conscience and Reflex Principles. (£?•/•) Passions
in Practical Life; their Classification; their Imputability,
(^. 83) The Moral Virtues; Stoicism; Epicurism; Christianity.
[Five hours a week for one term ]
IV.
(a)	Individual Duties — Notions of Right and Duty,
(Q. if The Duty of Man to God; Necessity of External
and Public Worship; Obligation of Prayer; the fact of Sac-
rifice. {Q, 2.) The Duty of Man to Himself; Culture of
the Intelligence, the Will, the Imagination, the Memory;
Care of the Body; Suicide essentially Unlawful. (0. 5.)
The Duty of Man to his Fellowmen; on Truthfulness and
Lying; Homicide and Self-Defence; on Duelling; on Private
Ownership; Socialism; Communism; Single Tax; on the
Right to Honor and Reputation; on Contracts and Usury.
(b)	Social Duties—(5- if The Domestic Society and
Marriage; Monogamy; Polygamy and Divorce; Relations
between Parents and Children, (g. 2f Education: the
30
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Part of the Parents, the Church and the State. (0. j.) On
Slavery in Ancient and Modern Times; Duties of Masters
and Servants. (Q. 4.} On Capital and Labor.
(c)	Sociology—Necessity of a Public Society; the City.
(Q. z.) Origin of the Civil and Political Organization; The-
ories of Hobbes and J. J. Rousseau; Source of Authority in
Human Society. (Q. 2.) On the Divine Right of Kings;
the Absolute Sovereignty of the People; the Reasonable
System. (Q. j.) The different Forms of Government; the
Primitive Polity; the best Form of Government; Opinions
of O. A. Brownson. (Q. 4.} On Modern Democracy; the
Position of the Church; the Usurpation and Transfer of the
Supreme Power; on the Government de Facto. (Q. 5.) On
Despotism; is it Lawful to Resist a Tyrant? Theory of St.
Thomas and Machiavelli on Government. (Q. 6.) The Dis-
tinction of the three Social Powers; Parliamentary and
Representative Government. (Q. 7.) Qualities of a good
Ruler; the Question of the Poor. (Q. <?.) Public Liberties;
Freedom of the Press and of Conscience; the Right of the
Sword; on War and Treaties. (Q. p.) The International
Law. QQ. 10.) Civilization. (^. zz.) Church and State.
(d)	Government of the United States*—History of the
Constitution; the Legislative Department of the U. S.; the
Executive Department of the U. S.; the President and the
Cabinet; the Judicial Department of the U. S.; the Supreme
Court; the Rights of the States and the United States; Jury,
Suffrage and Elections; Ballot Systems; Parties and Party
Machinery; Patriotism and Religion.
This Course is for Classical Students.
* This sketch is drawn according to the valuable ideas contained in “ The
American Republic,” by Dr. O. A. Brownson, and “ The American Common-
wealth,” by Mr. Bryce.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31
COURSES IN GREEK.
L
Xenophon—Memorabilia. First Two Books. Accidental
forms and Syntactical relations are constantly brought to
the student’s attention to fix in his mind the principles of
Grammar.
Prose Composition—The main purpose of this exercise is
to teach the student to write Greek according to the spirit
of the Greek language. Attention is constantly directed
to the difference in form of expression between the English
and the Greek.
Grammar—Syntax. Goodwin.
\Five hours a week for one termf
IL
Lysias—Orations, selected. Shuckburgh.
St* John Chrysostom—Butropius.
Prose Composition—See Course I.
Grammar—Syntax completed and reviewed.
\Five hours a week for one termd\
HL
Homer—Iliad. First and Fifth Books. Special study
of the Homeric language and verse scansion. Grammatical
and etymological explanations. Works of reference. Origin
of the Homeric poems. General literary characteristics of
the poems. Mythology. Homeric Theology.
St. Gregory—Machabees.
Bxercises in Prose Composition.
'{Five hours a week for one term?\
32
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
IV.
Homer—Iliad, Sixth Book, and Cursory Reading of
entire work. Books of reference and Collateral Reading
as in Course III.
Thucydides—First Book.
Exercises in Prose Composition.
[Five hours a -week for one termk\
V.
(a) Demosthenes—De Corona. Review of Political situ-
ation and historical facts in reference to the Oration. Review
of JEschines’ speech on the same subject, and continued
reference to the same. Analytical comparisons. Constant
attention is paid, throughout the courses, to the exchange
of the form of Analytical Elements of the G-reek for another
more in harmony with the spirit of the English language.
The student must be prepared to account for any form of
Etymology and to explain any rule of Syntax that he meets
in the text.
Cursory Reading of Homer’s Odyssey. Homer’s works
considered as the foundation of faith or the Bible of Pagan
Greece.
Practical Exercises embodying idiomatic expressions and
constructions of the authors read.
[Five hours a week for one termf
VI.
St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus. Eiterary appreciation
of the 4th Century of the Christian Era, the Golden Age
of Christian Eiterature. The G-reek Fathers of the Church
shown to be the peers of Demosthenes and Cicero in purity
of language, sublimity of style and oratorical success. The
end in view turns the scale in their favor. References made
to Pagan authors quoted by St. Basil. The advantages of a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
33
Classical Education in general, and of the study of Greek
in particular are dwelled upon as a mental training and
preparation for the literary and scientific professions.
Sophocles—CBdipus Tyrannus. Read with special refer-
ence to the economy of the Greek Drama, its origin in
religion, its religious features, its moral, its metrical mechan-
ism and its adaptability to the Modern Stage. Grecian
costumes, Grecian stage and theatrical outfits. Digest of the
Theban Legends.
Short Prose Compositions—Special attention is here given
to the Greek element in the English language, which is
casually observed in all the Courses.
Elements of Greek Literature.
[Five hoicrs a week for one termk\
'	VIL
Plato—Apology and Crito. In connection with this
author enlargements are made upon Athenian life, Athenian
jurisprudence, Athenian court proceedings. Socrates, a
philosopher or a sophist ? His friends and his enemies.
Euripides—Medea, or Iphigenia in Aulis, with literary
digest of the myths and legends touched upon in these
dramas. The Greek Drama continued as in Course VI.
Religious tendencies of Euripides.
Pindar—Select Odes. The public games of Greece.
Reading at sight of Heyne’s Greek notes on the Odes read
in class.
Exercises—Modern Greek compared with the Ancient.
Deviations in form and expression pointed out. Modern
pronunciation discussed, but not adopted. Reading at
sight of Professor’s collections of Modern Greek Stories,
and Anecdotes. The latter are reproduced in Ancient
Greek.
34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
History of Greek Literature.
[Five hours a week for one term.^
VIII.
Cursory Reading of the Greek Fathers of the Church.
St. Basil—The Martyr Gordius. St. John Chrysostom—The
Return of Bishop Flavian. St. Gregory Nazianzen—-
Funeral Oration of Caesarius.
Reading at Sight—The Professor’s Bpitonie of the New
Testament.
Sophocles—Philoctetes or Antigone,
Aristophanes—Frogs or Clouds. Greek Comedy; its
nature; its aim. Political Situation, Party Spirit, and work
of Secret Societies in Athens during the Peloponnesian War.
Religious and Philosophical Revolutions of the time. Con-
servatism of JFschylos and Sophocles as compared with the
complaint spirit of Buripides. Aristophanes as opportune
in the 19th Century as in his own days of enlightenment.
Modern Greek—Reading at sight of 7/ Mavpy 'QpaioT^
Black Beauty, translated from the Fnglish by Mrs. Kalopo-
thakes for the	-aiduiv in Athens.
History of Greek Literature.
[Five hours a week for one termk\ •
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
35
COURSES IN LATIN.
I.
Cicero—Select Letters. Orations.
Latin Composition based on Cicero’s text.
Virgil—j^neid. First and Second books. The expla-
nations cover peculiarities of Syntax, Figures, Mythology,
Versification. Collateral reading is indicated to the students.
Prosody—Ordinary Rules of Prosody. Practical Work.
[Five hours a week for one termj\
IL
Cicero—Orations. De Senectute used for sight reading.
Latin Composition based on Cicero.
Virgil—JBneid. Fourth Book with complete explana-
tions. Fifth and Sixth Books. Collateral Reading indicated
to the student.
Practice in Latin Conversation.
Prosody—Completed.
[Five hours a week for one term ]
IIL
Livy—Book XXI.
Latin Composition based on Livy.
Horace—Odes and Bpodes. The explanations include
the study of the Metrical Systems, Peculiarities of Style,
Plan of the Composition, Comparison with Odes of a similar
nature. Collateral reading indicated to the student.
Practice in Latin Conversation.
Versification—Weekly exercises. Original Latin Com-
position Bi-weekly.
[Five hours a week for one termi\
36
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV*
Livy—Book XXII.
Latin Composition based on Livy.
Cicero—De Oratore, First Book.
Horace—Odes and Bpodes continued. See Course III.
Practice in Latin Conversation.
Versification—Original exercises. Original Latin Com-
position.
' [Five hours a week for one termk\
Livy—Roman History, First Book. In the reading of
the text particular attention is called to the rules of Syntax
—roots and derivation of words—and to Ancient History,
Geography and Mythology.
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases
or original. Short fables and stories.
Horace—Bpistola ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
criticized from a" Philological and Literary standpoint.
Three select Satires, First Book.
Ancient Literature—Historians and Lyric Poets : their
lives, their works, their genius.
[Five hours a week for one term^
VI*
Tacitus—Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
Terence—Andria. Sight reading.
Horace—The Literary Fpistles and a few of the Moral
Satires.
Weekly practice in written Composition, Latin Con-
versation and Versification.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
37
Ancient Literature—Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Five hours a week for one term?^
VIL
Quintilian—De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth, and
Twelvth. Translation. Explanation embraces a literary
criticism of Grecian and Roman Orators, and practical
remarks on Latin Idioms and the fine arts of Antiquity.
Short Orations or Dissertations, and practical Conversa-
tions take place weekly.
Plautus—Captivi. The study of the play gives a full
knowledge of the Characters, the Plot, and the Style, the
archaic Forms, and the Constructions peculiar to the author.
Ancient Literature—Orators, especially Demosthenes
and Cicero.
[Five hours a week for one term^
VIII	.
Cicero—De Officiis. Partly sight-reading. Besides the
study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of Grecian
Philosophy, and continual reference is made to Course
III. in Philosophy.
Oratorical and Philosophical Compositions alternate
weekly. Latin Conversation on general topics.
Lucretius—De Natura Rerum. Select passages. Synopsis
of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous philo-
sophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the errors of
our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature—Philosophers, particularly Socrates,
Plato and Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Five hours a week for one term?\
38
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
I.
(a) Rhetoric—Detailed study of good use. Barbarisms,
Improprieties and Solecisms. Clearness, Force and Base,
as effected by Choice, Number and Arrangement of words.
Detailed study of sentences, paragraphs and whole com-
positions, with critical analysis of selected models. Analy-
tical study of Descriptive Writing (scientific and artistic).
Narrative Writing, with special reference to the Short Story.
Expository Composition, with special reference to the Essay.
Argumentation ; burden of proof; presumption ; methods ;
forms and arrangement of argument; persuasion. During a
large part of the year the student is required to write a daily
theme. The text-book in use is Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric,
supplemented by lectures and notes by the Professor.
(h) Oratorical Composition—Invention: proofs, manners,
passions, topics; disposition; parts of the discourse; orator-
ical amplification; briefs; analysis of orations. Elements
of Logic with reference to Oratory.
(c) Readings in Class:—Spencer’s Philosophy of Style,
Gates’ Selections from Newman. British and American
Orations.
\Five hours a week for two terms.]
IL
\One theme a week in all classes below b\
(a)	English Prosody—Scansion, the old method and the
method by musical notation; rhythmical units—quantity,
accent, the phrase; blank verse, cadences, alliteration;
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
39
metre, rhyme, stanzas, French forms, the sonnets, and other
lyric forms.
(b)	Dramatic Analysis—The parts of a Tragedy: intro-
ductions, scenic passages, rising actions, climaxes, tragic
incidents, falling actions, catastrophes, forces, plots, under-
plots, characterization, nemesis, values, unity, probability,
completeness, etc. Comedy. Application to Shaksperian
plays.
(c)	Shakspere—Reading with literary and dramatic
analysis of Macbeth, King John, Julius Ccesar, King Richard
III., Coriolanus, As You Like It, Twelfth Night, Much Ado
About Nothing. Hudson’s text is used and the entire play
is read in each case.
(d)	The History of English Literature up to Shafcspere—
A Handbook of English Literature, by Austin Dobson, and
Ward’s English Poets are used to direct this course.
[Five hours a week for two terms.\
III.
(a)	The Laws of the Epic, of Prose Fiction, of the Lyric
and the Essay. Critical application of the laws to models.
(b)	Shakspere—Reading, etc., as in Course II. c, of A
Winter’s 7 ale, Romeo and Jzdiet, King Henry IV., Parti.,
King Henry 1V., Part II., King Henry V., A Midsummer
Night’s Dream, Antony and Cleopatra.
(c)	History of English Literature from Shakspere to the
nineteenth century. Models. Dobson and Ward used as
in Course II. d.
[Five hours a week for two terms f
IV.
(a)	Shakspere—Reading, etc., as in Course II. c, of King
Lear, Hamlet, Othello, The Tempest, The Merchant of Venice,
Cymbeline, King Henry VIII., King Richard HI.
i
40
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
(b)	The Leading Poets and Prose Writers of the Nine-
teenth Century. Lectures.
(c)	Old English—An elementary course in Anglo-Saxon
grammar and reading. (This division of Course IV. is
elective.)
\_Four hours a week for two terms
v*
Special Course in Theme Writing for Engineering and
Scientific students.
\_One hour a week for two terms b\
COURSES IN ELOCUTION*
L
Readings—Narrative and Descriptive. This course is
designed to correct bad methods of breathing, and to give
the student proper control of the voice.
\Two hours a week for first termfi
n*
Continuation of Course L—Expository and Argumenta-
tive Readings. Lectures on the proper use and care of
the voice.
\_Two hours a week for second termb\
m.
Exercises in breathing, voice-culture, and action. The
principles of pronunciation and emphasis and their applica-
tion in the reading of selections. Text-book, Pulton and
Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
\Two hours a week for first termb\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
41
IV	.
Continuation of Course III. — Further exercises in
breathing, voice-culture, and action. Quality, Force, Pitch,
and Time. Minute speeches and declamations, lectures on
the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and True-
blood’s Practical Elocution.
[Two hours a week for second term^
V	.
Shaksperian Reading—The critical and artistic reading
of two of Shakspere’s plays, accompanied with stage action.
The students present the play by scenes before the class.
Courses III. and IV. are required for admission to this
course. The course is limited to 24 students and will not
be given in 1898-’99, but may be expected in 1899-1900.
[Two hours a week for first termf
VL
Oral Discussions—The application of Formal Logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. above,
and a course in Logic are required for admission to this
course. The course is limited to 24 students, and will not
be given in 1898-’99, but may be expected in 1899-1900.
[Two hours a week for second term^\
VIL
Oratory—A study of the great orators of ancient times.
Bach student is required to write and to deliver a biograph-
ical oration on one of the great Greek or Latin orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III. and
IV. above, and Course I. in Bnglish are required for
admission to this course. The course is limited to 16 students.
[Two hours a week for first term^\
42
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
vrn.
Oratory—Continuation of Course VII. A study of
modern orators of Burope and America. Lectures. Courses
III. and IV. above, and Course I. in Bnglish are required
for admission to this course. The course is limited to 30
students.
[Two hours a week for second, term.^
COURSES IN HISTORY AND
POLITICAL SCIENCE.
I«
ANCIENT HISTORY,
(a)	Ancient Greece—To the conquest by Rome. A year’s
course of three hours a week in the First Term and five hours
a week in the Second Term. The text-book for recitation
is Smith’s History of Greece. This course is given in an
alternate year with Course I. b.
(b)	Ancient Rome—To the accession of Commodus. A
year’s course of three hours a week in the First Term and
five hours a week in the Second Term. The text-books for
recitation are Liddell’s Rome and Bury’s Roman Empire.
This course is given in an alternate year with Course I. a.
IL
MODERN HISTORY,
Modern History—Civilization during the Middle Ages;
Christianity; Teutonic Migrations; Growth of the Papacy;
the Franks; Charlemagne; the Holy Roman Bmpire; the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
43
Feudal System; the Umpire and the Papacy; the Crusades;
the Renaissance; the French Revolution. Lectures and
discussions. Students will be required to do special work
in the library.
in.
English History:—A year’s course of five hours a week
on the history of the British Isles to the Revolution
of 1689. The purpose of the course is to show the develop-
ment of the State and of political institutions in the British
Isles. The development of economic, legal and religious
institutions is dwelt on, in so far as they effect the develop-
ment of political institutions.
IV.
American History—A five months’ course of five hours a
week during Second Term. There is first given by lectures
an outline of the political condition of the Colonies under
the Crown, the causes leading to the Revolution of 1776,
the political status of the States after Independence, the
Confederation of 1781, the causes leading to the forming of
the Constitution, and the Constitutional Convention. The
Constitution is then studied in detail. This is followed by
a treatment of the political history of the United States
since 1789, using for text book, Johnson’s American Politics.
V.
Special History—Critical study of special epochs in Me-
dieval and Modern History, ecclesiastical and secular. This
course is especially designed to exercise the student in the
best methods of historical research, and the collection of
authorities. Tts subject-matter includes the reign of Charle-
magne, the Papal Temporalities, the question of Investiture,
the Renaissance, the rise of Protestantism, the French
Revolutions, and such mooted questions as the Massacre of
44
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
St. Bartholomew, and the cases of Galileo and Savonarola.
Opportunities for original work in American History are
offered by the collection of manuscripts in the library.
POLITICAL ECONOMY.
I.
A five months’ course of five hours a week during First
Term in the Blements of Bconomics, viz.: Band, Human
Bxertions and Capital; Value, Money and Credit; Rent,
Interest, Profit and Wages; and Population and Consump-
tion—with a more extended examination of the questions
of Money and Distribution. The text-book used is Walker’s
Manual of Political Economy.
COURSE IN ROMANCE LANGUAGES.
This Course includes the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
Its principal aim is to impart an accurate reading knowl-
edge of literary works written in these languages. In the
study, however, of Old French and Provencal special atten-
tion will be paid to Philology.
FRENCH COURSES.
L
Houghton’s French by Reading. Un Cas de Conscience.
Super’s Reading from French History.
[Ewo hours a zveeki\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
45
French Composition. L’Avare. Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon. he Roi des Montagnes. Picciola. Zola’s Le Reve.
\Two hours a week.]
in.
La Poudre aux Yeux. Athalie. Hernani. Les Confes-
sions d’un Ouvrier. Le Barbier de Seville. Le Malade
Imaginaire. Les Fourberies de Scapin/ Pourceaugnac.
LesFacheux. L’ Amour Medecin. Le Misanthrope. Cinna.
Polyeucte.
\Two hours a week.']
N. B.—The books used are not necessarily the same every year.
SPANISH COURSE.
A two years’ course. Besides the reading of Modern
Authors the masterpieces of Calderon de la Barca, Lope de
Vega, Cervantes, etc., will be particularly studied. An
optional course of Old Spanish preceded by the philology of
the language, enabling the students to better understand
the masterpieces of Old Spanish is also offered.
ITALIAN COURSE.
A two years’ course. The chief work of this course is a
critical study of Dante’s Divina Commedia. Reading from
Tasso, Petrarca, Ariosto’s Satires, Manzoni, etc.
PORTUGUESE COURSE.
One year course. Os Lusiadas will be specially studied.
OLD FRENCH.
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying the
formation of the French language from the popular Latin.
For this purpose a work like Bracket’s Grammaire
46
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Historique will be studied. It is under this point of view
that Old French authors will be read, especially La Chanson
de Rolands
PROVENCAL COURSE.
Language and literature, with reading from the works of
the Troubadours.
REMARK.
With the exception of French, no one will be accepted
for these courses unless he can satisfy the Professor of
his ability to read Latin at sight.
COURSES IN GERMAN.
I.
Grammar—Joynes-Meissner. Deutsches Lesebuch, Bone.
Themes—Original and imitation work.
\Three hours a iveek^\
IL
Special Course for students in the English and Scientific
Courses.
Grammar—-Joynes-Meissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
\Three hours a weeB\
in.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
\Three hours a weekj
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
47
COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
I.
Algebra—This course includes a study of the binomial
theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance, variables
and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a thorough
study of the general properties and solution of equations,
embracing the subjects of derivatives, transformation, detached
coefficients, surd and imaginary roots, incommensurable
roots, limits of roots, biquadratic equations; Des Cartes’ and
Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s theorem; Horner’s method; roots
of complex number and trigonometric solution of cubic-
equations.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
. IL
Trigonometry, Plane and Spherical—Development of gen-
eral formulae; functions of a single angle; functions of related
angles; functions of sums and differences; functions of double-
angles and half angles; functions of multiple angles; chang-
ing the product of functions into the sum of functions, and
the sum of functions into the product of functions; circular
functions; development of functions; transformations; solu-
tion of triangles; construction and use of tables. The
preceding work embraces the general topics studied in the
course of plane trigonometry. Additional exercises involving
application of theoretical principles are added by the in-
structor.
In Spherical Trigonometry are studied:—General prop-
erties of spherical triangles; solution of right and oblique
spherical triangles; special methods involving application-
of Napier’s rules and analogies, and Gauss’s equations.
48
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
determination, of species; spherical excess; area of spherical
triangles; miscellaneous applications; astronomical applica-
tions. This Course is supplemented by many practical
problems and exercises.
\Plane Trigonometry} five hours a week for twelve weeks.
Sfihtrical Trigonometry, five hours a week for eight weeksi\
in.
Analytic Geometry—This Course includes a study of the
point and right line; conic sections, their equations and prop-
erties ; discussion of the general equation of the second
degree containing two variables; higher plane curves; equa-
tions of the third degree; different systems of coordinates;
transformation of coordinates; spirals; an elementary course
in geometry of three dimensions, embracing the point,
straight line, plane and surfaces of revolution; transforma-
tion of coordinates; quadric surfaces and supplementary
propositions.
\Five hours a week for one termk\
IV.
Calculus, Differential—This Course, as also Course V., is
designed to meet the requirements of Bngineering students.
It includes a study of the methods for the differentiation of
algebraic, logarithmic and exponential, trigonometric, and
inverse trigonometric functions; successive differentiation
and differential coefficients; treatment of implicit and com-
poundfunctions; expansion of functions; indeterminate forms;
partial differential coefficients of the first order and of higher
orders; direction of curvature; radius of curvature; envel-
opes; singular points of curves; maxima and minima of
functions of one independent variable, and of several inde-
pendent variables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane
areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution.
\_Five hours a week for one termk\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAMS.
49
Calculus, Integral—Integration of elementary forms and
of rational fractions; integration by rationalization and by
parts; successive integration; multiple integrals; definite
integration and the constants of integration; integration
between limits; disposing of the constant of integration;
double integratien applied to plane areas; rectification of
plane curves; quadratures of plane areas , and surfaces of
revolution; surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic
equation of a curve. This Course is supplemented by
numerous exercises and examples.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
VI.
Elective Work—The prescribed Courses in Pure Mathe-
matics are I. to V. inclusive. The following advanced
Courses are offered, based on standard authors. The text-
books are not necessarily the same every year. The number
of students necessary to constitute a class in any one subject
must be at least five.
(A) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Chrystal'
CF) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock.
Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (y) Differential Bqua-
tions, Elementary Course, Mtirray. (f) Advanced Cal-
culus, Byerly, Todhunter, Williamson. (g) Advanced
Analtytic Geometry, Salmon. (Ji) Analytic Geometry of
Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, f) Quaternions,
Hardy, with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hoicrs' recitation a week for one subjectk\
50
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
I	.
Descriptive Geometry—In this Course are considered
problems on the point, right line, and plane; single curved,
double curved, and warped surfaces; problems relating to
tangent planes to single curved, double curved, and warped
surfaces; intersection of surfaces by planes; tangencies;
development of surfaces; spherical projections; orthographic,
stereographic, globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
construction of maps; shades and shadows; linear perspect-
ive; isometric projections; theory and plates. Numerous
practical problems and exercises requiring the application
of the principles of Descriptive Geometry are added by the
instructor.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IL
Surveying—This Course comprises the whole theory of
land surveying and levelling; the use and adjustment of the
transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods of meas-
uring ; relocation of boundaries; supplying omissions ;
obstacles to measurement; computations; field notes and
plots; laying out land; parting off land; dividing up land;
Public Lands survey.
[Five hours a week for one term^
in.
Surveying—Field practice and application of theory;
adjustments and use of instruments in the field; solution of
problems in the field the theory of which is taught in the
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
51
class-room; practice in keeping field notes; computations
and plots.
[Four hours a -week for the spring term.~\
IV.
Higher Surveying—This Course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of Engi-
neering instruments; problems pertaining to solar attach-
ment; topographical surveying with the transit and stadia;
mining surveying; mining claims; survey of mines with
shafts and drifts; determining positions of ends of tunnels,
and depths below surface; theory of hydrographic and city
surveying; geodetic surveying and levelling; measuring
base lines; adjustments of angles, triangles, and quadrilat-
erals; latitude and azimuth; time and longitude; changing
mean time into sidereal time and sidereal time to mean time.
[Five hours a week for one term^\
Surveying—Exercises in the field in the adjustments and
use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane table sur-
veying in the field; levelling; practice in hydrographic
surveying.
[Four hours a week for the spring term^\
VL
Railroad Surveying—This Course comprises all the theory
pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary survey for a
railroad; theory of maximum economy in grades and curves;
location of curves by deflection angles and offsets; obstacles
to location of curves; special problems in curves; theory of
compound curves; turnouts and crossings; compound tran-
sition curves; cubic parabola; curving the rail on curves and
52
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
elevation of outer rail; easing grade on curves; vertical
curves; earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory of exca-
vation and embankment; correction in excavation on curves;
cross-sectioning.
[Five hours a week for one teim^
VIL
Railroad Surveying—Exercises in the field; staking out
and running tangents, simple, compound and transition
curves; execution on the ground of many problems previ-
ously treated theoretically; survey for a short line of railroad,
levelling, cross-sectioning, and setting slope stakes; making
profiles and maps; calculating the necessary excavations and
embankments and cost of construction; culverts.
[Four hours a week for one term.\
VIIL
Analytic Mechanics—Kinematics. The subjects treated
are speed, rate of change of speed, displacement, velocity,
acceleration; angular speed; central acceleration; recti-
linear simple harmonic motion; resisting medium; projectiles;
harmonic and planetary motions; and a study of the general
laws of kinematics of a rigid system. The calculus is freely
used throughout the Course.
[Five hours a week for one term^
Mechanics of Materials—This Course embraces a study of
the composition and resolution of forces; non-concurring
forces in general; discussion of the general laws of work,
friction, etc. Then is studied the application of the theory
of statics to retaining walls, dams, earth slopes; stability of
walls; direction and point of application and magnitude of
water pressure; factors of safety; arch dams; analytic deter-
mination of magnitude and direction of pressure; equilibrium
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
53
of mass of earth; angle of rupture; strength and elasticity
of materials; determination of moments of inertia and radii
of gyration; conditions of equilibrium of deflected beams;
shearing forces and stresses; resisting moments; coefficient
of rupture; factor of safety and working stresses; strength
of pipes and cylinders; theoryand practice of riveting; design-
ing of beams; torsion; transmission of power by shafts;
theory of flexure; deflection of beams and framed structures;
continuous girders; conditions of equilibrium; equations of
curves of deflection; theorem of three moments; moment at
any support.	' ’
[Five hours a week for one term^
X* ’
Mechanics, Kinetics—This Course is treated as fully as
its importance demands. It includes the study of the theory
of kinetics of a particle; theorems relating to work, power,
and energy; kinetic friction specially considered; conserva-
tion of energy; the potential; kinetics of a rigid body;
moment of inertia, more extended treatment than the same
subject receives in Course IX. Motion in two dimensions;
motion in three dimensions.
[Three hours a week for one iermi\
XL
Resistance of Materials—This Course is intended to meet
the requirements of Engineering students, and to prepare
them by a study of the action and effect of forces on beams
and structures to design economically and intelligently the
parts entering into a completed structure. The course com-
prises a study according to the latest and approved methods,
of tension and its effect on materials; compression; theories
of flexure and rupture from transverse stress; shearing
stress; graphical methods; transverse strength; beams of
uniform resistance, various forms and loaded in any manner;
54
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
design and strength of beams and columns; torsion; effect
of long continued strains and repeated strains; limits of safe
loading; crystalization of iron; preservation of materials.
To this study are added many practical problems and
exercises in the Engineering Laboratory.
[Five hours a week for one term\.
XIL
Bridges and Roofs—This Course comprises a study of the
different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses, and
the calculation of the strains produced when loaded in any
manner, the weight of the structure and the effect of wind
included. Both graphical and analytical methods are used.
Besides the various systems of trussed bridges, which are
studied in detail, the plate girders, suspension bridges, canti-
lever bridges, draw bridges, and roofs of various designs are
given equal attention, the purpose being to familiarize the
student with the different forms and to enable him to design
and to estimate the cost of construction.
[Three hours a week for one termk\
XIII ♦
Graphical Statics—This Course teaches the determination
of stresses in framed structures by the graphical method.
Shearing forces, bending moments, centres of gravity, and
moments of inertia are graphically determined by the appli-
cation of the principles of the force and equilibrium polygons;
as also stresses in bridge and roof trusses; graphical treat-
ment of the arch, symmetrical and unsymmetrical cases;
graphical method for arch-ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed
ends; stress diagrams; temperature stresses; braced arches;
graphics applied to continuous girders. This Course is
supplemented by full explanations, notes, examples, and
problems.
[Two hours a week for one termk\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
55
XIV.
Engineering—This Course is taken by students of Civil
Engineering in the Senior Year, and teaches the principles
of the science of Civil Engineering and the most approved
methods of constructing engineering works, such as piers,
abutments, foundations, coffer dams, reservoir walls ;
instruction as to the types of structures suitable for different
localities; economy of construction and framing; properties
of building materials, as wood, stone, cement, brick, iron;
methods of testing, methods of preparation, preservation
and cost; construction of masonry arches, tunnels, sewers,
highways, and city streets; discussion of framed structures
of different types; river and harbor improvements; canals;
seacoast defenses.
[Five hours a -week for two terms. j
S'
XV.
Sanitary Engineering—This Course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of sewage
in populous districts; shape, material and calculation of
sewers; catch basins, flushing, and ventilation; separate and
combined systems compared; pollution of rivers; chemical
precipitation; results and cost of purification; general munic-
ipal and domestic sanitation; inspection of neighboring works.
[Two hours a week for one tenn^
XVI.
Hydromechanics—This Course is a thorough study of the
theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrodynamics, to
which are added many practical exercises. The subjects
considered are the transmissions of pressures; center of
pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of various shapes;
fluid friction; Bernoulli’s theorem with friction; Chezy’s
formula; Hutter’s formula; flow over weirs, and through
56
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
tubes; flow in pipes; loss of head in friction and other losses;
flow in conduits, canals, and rivers; velocities in cross
section; methods of gauging the flow; measurement of
water power; dynamic pressure of flowing water; designing
of water works and standpipes; hydraulic motors and relative
merits; dynamics of gaseous fluids; flow through orifices by
water formula; with isothermal expansion; with adiabatic
expansion.
[Five hours a week for one
xvn*
Stereotomy—This Course comprises a study of the appli-
cation of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to the
determination of the forms and sizes of the stones used in
the construction of the different classes of arches and
masonry structures. This Course is given by lectures in
the Drawing Room, explaining the construction of templets,
and use of directing instruments; also explanations of
methods of drawing plans, elevations, and developments of
oblique arches, wing walls and the like. A certain number
of plates and drawings is required, illustrating the methods
of performing practical work.
[Two hours a week for one termj\
xviil
Geodesy—This is an elementary Course prescribed for
Civil Engineering students in the Junior Year, and com-
prises a study of the instruments and methods of observa-
tion; base measurements and field work of the triangulation;
method of least squares, elementary course; calculation of
the triangulation, and theory of probable errors; geodetic
latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is followed by
a brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
[Frur hours a week for one termi\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
57
COURSE IN ASTRONOMY.
I.
Astronomy—Descriptive and Practical. This Course
comprises a study of astronomical instruments, their use and
adjustment, and methods of observation; problems of finding
time, latitude, and longitude; observatory practice; methods
of finding the form, size, mass, and density of the earth;
earth’s orbital motion; equation of time; precession, nutation,
aberration, and parallax; general description of the sun;
description of eclipses and computation; planetary orbits
and computation; problem of two bodies; problem of three
bodies; disturbing forces; methods of determining the
diameters, masses, densities, times of rotation of the planets;
determination of the sun’s horizontal parallax and distance,
various methods; description of comets, meteors, nebulae,
and fixed stars; cosmogony and the nebular hypothesis.
,	\Three hours a week for two terms.]
58
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
^>5
I.
'Thermodynamics—The first term is given to a theoretical
study of the steam engine, gas engine, and other heat motors
involving the laws of thermodynamics of gases, saturated
vapors and superheated steam. During the second term the
applications of the studies of the previous term are dwelt
upon and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refrigerat-
ing machinery, boilers, pumps and hydraulic machinery are
studied in detail. Frequent reference is made to trade cata-
logues, of which an adequate supply should be obtained by
the student. The text-book used is Thurston’s The Steam
Engine.
[Five hours a week for two terms
II.
Materials of Engineering—This Course, supplemented by
shopwork and laboratory work in testing materials of con-
struction, is designed with the purpose of acquainting the
student with the properties of the materials he will use in
his profession. Tensile and shearing strength, elasticity
and resistance are studied, together with the effects of
strain, intermittent loading and impact. The process of
manufacture of the most important materials is taken up
and estimates of the cost of construction at the market prices
complete the work. Thurston’s Materials of Engineering is
the text-book used.
[Five hours a week for one termf
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
59
in.
Steam Engine Design—In this Course the forms and sizes
of steam engines, computation of dimensions and advantages
and adaptation of special forms of engines for specific work
are taken up which give the student a thorough knowledge
of constructive detail. The latest researches and contempo-
rary practice may be consulted in the numerous publications
found in the University library. During the first term of
the Senior Year is required the complete design with work-
ing drawings of a simple non-condensing steam engine for
a specific purpose. The second term is given to designing a
multiple expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine
service. The text-book used is Whitham’s Steam Engine
Design.
\Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers—This subject is treated much as that of
the steam engine. The determination of sizes of parts from
consideration of strains, thickness of shells, size of rivets,
braces, furnaces and proper methods of connection of boilers
with efficiency of furnace and life of boiler, are some of the
subjects considered. The method of determining the effic-
iency of fuels, heating surface, heights of chimneys, boiler
mountings, and materials used in construction are also
discussed.
\Three hours a week for one term^\
V.
Kinematics—This Course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining of
the parts to move in these paths. The general theory is
then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative motion of
6o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys, speed
cones, link work and other aggregate combinations. Barr’s
Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book used.
[Five hours a week for one term .J
VI.
Machine Design—This work involves a study of the form
and strength of machine parts as applied in designing with
computation of dimensions for fastenings, bearings, rotating
pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc. The derivation of
rational formulae and the determination of empirical formulae
are included and applied in designing. The text-book used
is Unwin’s Elements of Machine Design.
[Three hours a week for one termh\
VII.
Valve Gears—This Course includes a complete study of
the Zeuner diagram as applied to slide valves and the princi-
pal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears, such as
Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are treated in the
same way and in conclusion the student is made familiar
with the various types of Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics
and link motions. The text-book is Spangler’s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one termh\
vin.
Mechanical Laboratory—The work taken up includes a
study of the methods of testing the steam engine under vary-
ing running conditions, valve setting, calibration of ther-
mometers, gauges and indicator springs, use of Prony brake,
Weber and Emerson dynamometers, Pelton water wheel,
Wier calibration, etc.. Text-book, Carpenter’s Experimental
Engineering.
[One afternoon each week for one termO^
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
6l
Thesis—Bach candidate for a degree in this department
must present for graduation a thesis of considerable magni-
tude which will exhibit his knowledge of the course he has
followed. It may embrace designing, experimental investi-
gation or original research in a subject selected by the
student and approved by the Professor. The major part of
the second term, Senior Year, is devoted to the work and
graduation is conditional upon the knowledge of Mechanical
Engineering displayed in its preparation.
[Twelve hours a week for one termf
-	X.
SHOPWORK.
(a)	Woodwork—Exercises in planing, sawing, splicing,
framing, scroll-sawing and turning.
[Five hours a week for second term, Freshman Year.~\
(b)	Applications of Carpentry to pattern-making, cores,
etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints, cranks and
bearings.
[Four hours a week for one termf
(c)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool mak-
ing, tempering and case hardening.
[Four hours a week for one termi\
(d)	Benchwork in iron, including surface chipping, key-
setting, draw-filing, scraping and polishing.
[Five hours a week for one termd\
(f)	Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shaping and milling
machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers, taps,
twist-drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
[Five hours a week for one torm^
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
I	.
Applied Electricity—A course of lectures and recitations,
supplemented by laboratory practice, on the general theory
of electricity and magnetism and its application to practical
work, as follows: Setting up and testing primary and sec-
ondary batteries, systems of call bells, electric gas lighting
appliances, fire and burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone
lines, switchboards and accessories.
Experiments with induction coils, magnets, switches,
voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers
and other measuring instruments. The study of direct
current generators and motors, arc and Incandescent lighting
systems, street railway machinery and appliances, electric
heating and forging, electrolytic processes, etc.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IL
Applied Electricity—Lectures and laboratory work on the
construction and testing of switches, magnets, measuring
instruments, induction coils, etc. The calculation of sizes
of wire and location of circuits for lighting and power, the
experimental study of alternating current machinery and
accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his shopwork he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with the rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency and adaptability to special
purposes. This Course must be preceded by Course I. Both
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	63
I.	and II. are required in the Short Course in Electrical
Engineering; they are elective for general students and
those studying telegraphy.
[Five hours a week for two terms
Electricity and Magnetism—The relations of currents to
magnetism, magnetic units, permeability, hysteresis and
other magnetic phenomena, solution of problems. Recita-
tions and lectures. Text-book, Ewing’s Magnetic Induction,
\Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery—Recitations on the physical
theory of dynamo machines, armature actions and reac-
tions, characteristic curves, mechanical points, theory of
armature winding, the mathematical theory of alternating
currents, phase relations, modern forms of single phase and
multiphase generators and motors, design of transformers,
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Electrical Laboratory—Practical work at wiring buildings
for lights and power, testing circuits for insulation and
grounds, construction and operation of storage batteries,
management and care of dynamos, characteristic curves of
particular machines under different conditions, efficiency
tests of motors by absorption dynamometer methods, alter-
nating current dynamo and transformer tests, the testing
of storage batteries, and complete plant-efficiency tests.
Careful notes are taken. This course is supplementary to
Course IV. and both must be preceded by Course III.
[Five credit hours a week for two terms. ]
64
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VI-
Drawing1—The designing and making of working draw-
ings of switches, resistances, and other electrical apparatus.
Calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for light-
ing buildings. Complete drawings of direct and alternating
current dynamos, paying out plants for power and lighting.
[Three credit hours a week for two terms k\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
65
COURSES IN DRAWING.
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may be
trained in Outline Drawing in pencil and pen. Then follows
the study of light and shade. Instruction in Artistic Draw-
ing is arranged for students desiring to devote their time to
the subject, Pen and Ink Drawing for illustrations and
sketching from nature receive their due attention.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough knowl-
edge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the use of
instruments is taken up. A large drawing hall for advanced
students in the engineering courses is on the second floor of
the Engineering Building. Beginning with the instruments,
attention is given to accurate draughtmanship upon plates,
illustrating problems in Civil, Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering. This work is continued throughout the
Courses.
I	.
Freehand—The work consists of sketching with pencil
and pen from flat copies and models of machine parts and
freehand lettering. Eater in the term, the use of instru-
ments, section-lining and lettering are taught. Text-book,
Thorne’s Junior Course of Mechanical Drawing,
\Two hours a week for one term\
IL
Projection Drawing—The work embraces the principles
of projections, methods of shop-drawing, tinting, tracing,
blue printing, line-shading and the preparation of working
66
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
drawings of complete machines. Text-books, Thorne’s
Intel-mediate Mechanical Drawing, and how and Bevis’
Manual of Machine Drawing and Design. This Course
must be preceded by Course I.
\Two hours a week for two terms .J
in.
Descriptive Geometry—A series of accurate plates are
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective and
isometric projections. Text-book, Hal.
\_0ne hour a week for first term, and two hours a week for
second termly
IV.
Kinematic Drawing—Designing of cams and gear teeth,
complete working drawings of machines involving the appli-
cation of kinematics and the computation of dimensions.
Reference-book, Dow and Bevis’ Manual of Machine Draw-
ing and Design.
\_Two hours a week for two terms.]
Topography—Pen and colored topographical drawing,
conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken from sur-
veys. This Course must be preceded by Course I.
\Four hours a week for one termly
VI	.
Masonry—Drawing and designing plans, elevations and
Sections of masonry constructions, foundatious, dams, piers,
abutments, culverts and arches.
\_Four hours a week for one terml\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
67
VIL
Bridge Designing—Proceeding from simple framed girders
to complete bridge-trusses of various designs. Complete
design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings.
[Four hours a 'week for two terms.]
vin.
Freehand—The principles of freehand drawing in pencil
and pen from objects, and later from biological specimens,
plants, animals and microscopical preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Freehand—Advanced drawing from plants and anatom-
ical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
X.
Artistic Drawing—Advanced drawing in ink, charcoal,
and crayon from copies, casts, still life, and nature.
[Five hours a week.~\
XI.
Water-Color Drawing—Drawing in water-colors from
models, still life and nature.
[Five hours a week.]
58
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.
I.
(a) General Descriptive Chemistry—Lectures and Reci-
tations. A complete study of the elements and their most
important compounds, following the classification based on
Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a thorough discussion of the
theories of the science. Careful attention is given to tech-
nical chemical processes and industries, and to the writing
of chemical reactions. Text-book, Freer.
\_Two hours a week for two terms.]
(h) Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course (af the work consisting of the prepara-
tion, by the student, of the elements and their more typical
compounds, determination of molecular weights, verification
of the fundamental laws of chemistry, etc. During the
latter part of the Course, special attention is given to the
characteristic reactions of the metals and to the principles
of chemical analysis.
\Two laboratory hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.]
II.
Qualitative Chemical Analysis—The work of this Course
comprises the study, in the laboratory, of the reactions
involved in the separation and detection of the more com-
mon inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures
of salts, and complex substances such as earths, ores, ashes,
etc. Text-book, Appleton, supplemented by lectures.
\Five laboratory hours a week, with recitation, for one termi\
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
69
Quantitative Chemical Analysis—A laboratory study of
the principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and volumet-
rically. Complete analysis of a number of simple salts like
Baric chloride, with partial analysis of substances such as
steel, lye, drinking-water, etc. Reference-book, Fresenius.
\Five laboratory hours a week, with recitation, for one termk\
IV.
Organic Chemistry—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A systematic study of the compounds of Carbon,
involving the preparation, by the student in the laboratory,
of the more important and typical organic compounds and
the investigation of their properties. Ultimate organic
analysis. Text-book, Remsen.
\Seven laboratory hours a week, with two lectures or
recitations, for one term^\
Urinary Analysis and Toxicology—A Course of labora-
tory exercises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constitutents of the urine, and of the
alkaloids and principal organic poisons. Text-book,
Witthaus.
\_FFe hours a week for one termk\
VI.
Qualitative Chemical Analysis—An advanced Course,
intended for students of General Science specializing in
Chemistry. Special analytical work at the option of the
student. Text-book, Fresenius.
\_Five to ten hours a week for one termk\
70	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
VIL
Quantitative Chemical Analysis—An advanced Course.
Special technical analysis.
[Five to ten hours a week for one term?\
VUL
Organic Chemistry—Laboratory work. An advanced
Course, intended for General Science students specializing in
Chemistry.
[Ten to fifteen laboratory hours a week for two terns .J
COURSES IN PHYSICS.
I.
Elementary Physics—A complete Course of recitations
and lectures, including mechanics, heat, sound, light, elec-
tricity, and magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by
experiments.
[Five hours a week for one term?\
IL
General Physics—In this Course there is a more extended
treatment of the same subjects than is given in Course I.
Mathematical principles are applied to physical phenomena.
Special attention is paid to accuracy in the mathematical
work and in the statements of the principles involved.
Lectures and recitations, using Carhart’s University Physics
as a text-book.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
m.
Physical Laboratory—Manipulation of apparatus. Length,
mass and time measurements. Elementary work in density,
elasticity, heat, light, and sound. The student is taught to
depend on his own resources and to use the reference library.
Careful notes are required of all experiments performed.
\One hour a -week for one. tetm\
IV.
Physical Laboratory—Special advanced work in heat,light,
mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism. Accuracy
in observations and in the calculation and recording of
results is required. Students may specialize here according
to the college course which they are following. This Course
must be preceded by Courses II. and III. For list of
apparatus see page 14.
\Three hours a week for two terms.]
72
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN BOTANY.
L
Elementary Botany—Lectures, recitations, and labora-
tory work. A study of the morphology of the root, stem,
leaf, flower, fruit, and seed. The development of the
embryo and the processes of pollination and fertilization.
Microscopic study of the vegetable cell, of its products, of
cell formation, and of plant tissues. Simple experiments
demonstrating various physiological phenomena. The
structure and reproduction of the Algae, Fungi, Mosses and
Ferns. The analysis of Phanerogams occupies the time
during the spring months, and the student is made familiar
with the local flora. Text-books, Bastin’s College Botany
and Gray’s Manual,
\_Five hours a week for two terms.]
n.
Biological Laboratory — Supplementary to Course I.
Special work on the Thallophyta and Bryophyta. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the student
that he may become more familiar with their morphology,
structure, etc. This course is to accompany or be preceded
by Course I.
\Two hours a week for one termC^
m.
Advanced Botany—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. The work in this course is essentially the same as
that laid out in Vine’s text-book of Botany. Special work
is required in one particular group of plants. Herbarium
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
73
study is encouraged as well as the collecting and preparing
of plants for preservation. During the spring months frequent
excursions are made into the neighboring fields and woods
and the local aquatic and land flora are collected and studied.
\Ten hours a week for two terms.~\
COURSES IN ZOOLOGY.
L
Elementary Zoology—Lectures and recitations. General
ideas on the animal kingdom. Animals and plants defined.
The homology and analogy between the organs and parts
of animals. The morphology, classification, structure,
development and relationship of the types of vertebrates
and invertebrates. Text-book, Nicholson.
\Frue hours a week for one termj\
IL
Laboratory—Supplementary to Course I., chiefly inverte-
brate work, including a study of microscopic forms of the
Protozoa and Ccelenterata. Work in Entomology, etc.
\fTwo hours a week for one term.~\
hl
Invertebrate Zoology—Lectures, recitations, and labora-
tory work. In this course there is a more extended treat-
ment of Invertebrates. Dissections of the different types of
the higher forms. Careful notes and drawings are made
from these dissections. The use of the Reference Library.
The student begins to do research-work in this course.
74
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Opportunity is given to carry on systematic work on the
different groups contained in the University Museum.
hours a week for one termk\
IV-
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy—Lectures and labora-
tory work. This course consists of a thorough study and
classification of types of each of the five classes of verte-
brates accompanied by dissections. Special attention is
given to Osteology and comparisons are made between the
bones of skeletons representing each order of the vertebrates.
Opportunities are given for practical work in mounting the
skeletons of different animals.
\Fwe hours a week for one termf
V-
Mammalian Anatomy—This course has been provided
for students preparing themselves for a medical course.
The work consists of demonstrations and thorough dissec-
tions on the anatomy of the cat.
\Five hours a week for one temk\
VI-
%
Comparative Embryology—Lectures and laboratory work.
A study of the developmental history of invertebrates,
including a comparison of the germ-cell and sperm-cell in dif-
ferent types of animals. The maturation and fertilization
of the ovum. Mitosis and segmentation. The develop-
ment of the Ectoderm, Mesoderm* and Endoderm compared
in the types of invertebrates, differentiation of tissues,
development of the embryo, etc. Special work on the
embryology of a vertebrate—Fish.
\Three hours a week for one terrnf
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
COURSES IN GENERAL BIOLOGY.
I.
Cytology—Lectures and laboratory work. History of the
cell, cell structure, organization, activity, and mitosis.
[Two hours a week for one term.~\
IL
Elementary Biology—Lectures and laboratory work. The
lower forms of animals and plants compared as to structure,
function, and relationship of parts. Animal and plant dis-
section. Biogenesis and Abiogenesis, Homogenesis and
Heterogenesis. The alternation of generation in different
forms of animals and plants worked out. The theories of
evolution are discussed in this course. Text-book, Parker.
[Five hours a week for one term?\
COURSES IN PHARMACY.
L
Elements of Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations on the
fundamental principles and the various processes employed
later in the work of the Pharmacy Course.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IL
General Pharmacy—Lectures and recitatioas, including
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
76
a careful study of the principles involved in the practical
processes and methods which are carried out in detail in
Course III.
[Three hours a week for iwo terms.]
in.
Pharmaceutical Laboratory—The practical application of
processes to the manufacture of official preparations, such as
solutions, tinctures, fluid extracts, spirits, oleoresins, etc.
\Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory—Pharmaceutical assaying, pharmacognosy,
the manufacture of inorganic preparations, extemporaneous
pharmacy, review of pharmacopeia and dispensatories and a
general discussion of pharmacy as a practical preparation
for State Examinations. Daily practice in prescription
work, dispensing, etc.
[Five hours a week for two terms. ]
V.
Materia Medica and Therapeutics—A detailed considera-
tion of medicinal substances; their origin, composition,
therapeutic action, etc. Recitations and lectures.
[Five hours a week for one teim7\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
77
COURSES IN MICROSCOPY.
I	.
Microscopy—Lectures and laboratory work. Refraction
and dispersion of light and illumination. The index of
refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for
advanced work: immersion and adjustable objectives, camera
lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers, etc.
Special work in photo-micrography.
\Three hoiirs a week for one termk\
IL
Micro-Chemistry—Laboratory work. The preparation of
micro-chemical reagents and their application in testing,
fixing, hardening, staining, clearing, and mounting tissues
and organs.
\One hour a week for one termk\
78
■UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN HUMAN ANATOMY.
I.
Elementary Human Histology—Laboratory work and
demonstrations. Introductory work on the manipulation
of the microscope. Prepared tissues of the organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated.
[Two hours a week for one termf
IL
Advanced Human Histology—Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. Methods of hardening, staining, embed-
ding, section cutting and mounting of animal tissues.
Careful work on the nervous system—brain and spinal cord,
termination of nerve fibres, etc. Drawings made from each
preparation. Text-book, Schafer.
[Three hours a week for one termT\
in.
Human Anatomy—Lectures and recitations. Osteology
and descriptive anatomy of the muscular, digestive, circula-
tory and nervous systems.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
79
COURSES IN HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY.
L
Elementary Physiology—Lectures, recitations and dem-
onstrations with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of the bones.
The action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles.
The digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demon-
strated by models and charts. The anatomy and structure
of the nervous system and simple experiments on the same.
Text-book, Martin.
\Five hours a week for one termk\
IL
Advanced Physiology—Lectures, recitations and exper'-
mental work. A more extended treatment of Course I. on
alimentation, deglutition, stomach and intestinal digestion,
action of bile and pancreatic juice, absorption, properties of
lymph and chyle, secretion, excretion, animal heat and its
sources. The physiological divisions and structure of the
nervous system. Motor and sensory nerves. Physiological
anatomy of the spinal cord. General arrangement and
function of the sympathetic system, etc.
\_Two hours a week for two terms.]
HL
Hygiene—Lectures on personal, domestic and municipal
hygiene.
\One hour a week for one term.~\
So
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSE IN BACTERIOLOGY.
L
Lectures and Laboratory Work—Lectures on the form,
classification, structure and reproduction of bacteria. The
relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The principles of ster-
ilization are pointed out. Isolation and identification of
pathogenic germs form a large part of the work. Bmphasis
given to the detection of pathogenic germs by the various
staining processes. The early part of the laboratory work
is occupied in the preparation of the various culture-media
and the growth of certain non-pathogenic forms on these
media. Inoculations of animals with pathogenic germs
and effects observed. Text-book, Abbott.
\Three hours a week for one terwif
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
81
COURSES IN GEOLOGY.
I	.
Elementary Mineralogy—Lectures, recitations, and labo-
ratory work. A study of crystallography and the classifi-
cation of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Collins.
\_Two hours a week for one termk\
IL
Assaying—Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assaying of
the ores of gold, silver and lead. Ricketts.
\Two laboratory hours a week for one termk\
in.
Geology—Lectures and recitations. The study of the
general features of the earth. The material composing the
accessible parts of the earth. The arrangement of the
material in rocks. The causes of geological changes. The
history of the earth and the various forms of life that
existed in the different periods of successive geological ages.
Text-book, Dana.
XFive hours a week for one termk\
82
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN MUSIC
The department of Music offers superior advantages to
those desiring a thorough musical education. The time
devoted to the subject, especially to the study of an instru-
ment or the voice, is so arranged that it does not in any way
interfere with the Academic or Collegiate courses; however,
a regular course is laid out which can be completed by any
student of average ability within the period indicated.
ORGANIZATION.
The courses of study are organized with the departments
named below, and are under the supervision of the
respective Professors.
The branches taught are: Pianoforte, Pedal Organ, Voice,
Violin, Viola, Violincello, Contra Bass, Piccolo, Piute, Oboe,
Clarinet, Basoon, French Horn, Cornet, Trombone, Guitar,
and Mandolin.
ADVANTAGES.
Students that are sufficiently advanced have the oppor-
tunity of playing in the University Orchestra, University
Band, and University Mandolin Orchestra, or singing in the
Glee Club, Choral Society, Choir and many other musical
organizations.
Quartettes of brass instruments, string instruments, and
the voice are selected from the most proficient students.
VOICE.
First Year—Voice Production; Panseron’s ABC;
Concone’s, 50 Bxercises; Vaccai’s Studies; Songs.
Second Year—Voice Production; Concone’s 25 Wessons;
Concone’s 15 Wessons; Panseron’s methods; Songs—Ger-
man, French and English.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
83
Third Year—Voice Production; Panofka’s 24 Studies;
Oratorio and Operatic Selections and Classical Songs.
A Course of one year is established for those that wish
simply to improve the voice, derive the benefit of the vocal
and muscular exercises for the larynx, and obtain a fair
knowledge of music and singing.
PIANO.
I.
Mann’s Instruction Book, to Scales.
II.
Mann’s Instruction Book—Scales to end.
m.
Czerny’s Velocity; Heller’s Studies, op. 46, 47; Bach’s
Little Preludes; Sonatas by Clementi, Kuhlan, and Dussek;
Chopin’s easier Waltzes and Mazurkas; Mozart’s Sonatas;
the easier Songs Without Words by Mendelssohn; pieces like
La Grace by Bohm, Mignonette by Behr, Idylle by Lysberg,
Agitato by Schulhoff.
IV.
Cramer’s Studies; Chopin’s Waltzes; Mendelssohn’s
Songs Without Words; Compositions by Carl Maria von
Weber, Schubert, Mendelssohn, Schumann.
V.
Cramer’s Studies; Chopin’s Ballades; Sonatas by Bee-
thoven; Concertos by Mendelssohn.
VIOLIN.
I.
Wichtl, Part I.; Dancla’s Ktudes Faciles.
84
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
n.
Wichtl, Part II.; Dancla’s Ecole du Mecanisme; Mazas’
Etudes Specials, by Hermann; Duo Concertant de Pleyel.
HL
Forty Kreutzer Studies, by Hermann; Viotte’s Duos;
Popular Overtures.
IV.
Hermann’s School of Scales and Positions; Dancla’s
Etudes Album for Positions, Octaves. Trill, Double Notes,
Bowing, Wrist, Staccato and Springing Bow; Duos for
Piano and Violin.
Dancla’s Etudes Brillantes et Carateristiques; Spohr’s
Duos; De Beriot’s Airs Varies.
For Text Books relative to the study of the Viola, Violin-
cello, Contra Bass, Guitar, Mandolin, Reed and Brass
Instruments, Harmony, Theory and Composition, all infor-
mation can by obtained by addressing the Director of Music
at the University.
Students wishing to take Organ lessons must have pur-
sued a regular course of Piano lessons for two or three
years at least, and have some proficiency in Reading Music
at sight. In the First Grade they will use Ritter’s Ele-
mentary Studies, followed in the Second Grade by pieces
in various styles from Rink’s Organ School, or suitable
selections from works of the old masters.
DIPLOMA.
A Certificate or Diploma of proficiency will be conferred
only upon students that are sufficiently advanced to give
instruction in one or more branches of music.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
85
EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY.
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the Courses
in ^Evidences of Christianity.
The text-book used in the Junior and Senior years is
Hand-Book of the Christian Religion, by Wilmers.
A two-year course in Deharbe’s Middle Catechism precedes
the course above.
In the Preparatory School Bible History and the Balti-
more Catechism are used.
86
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGIATE COURSES.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admission
to the University are held at Notre Dame in September, at
the beginning of the Ball term.
Certificates of work done in public or private schools will
not be accepted instead of examinations, unless the applicant
has passed the final examination after a full course in his
school, and the University Faculty are satisfied with the
Standing of the school.
No school certificate will be accepted in place ofi the entrance
examination in English, or instead of the Preparatory
Mathematics of the Engineering and Science Courses.
Applicants for advanced standing that present certificates
from other colleges or universities may be received at the
discretion of the Faculty with or without examination as
regards particular cases.
No student will be received as a candidate for the degree
of Bachelor after the beginning of the Senior year unless he
passes an examination in the Metaphysics and Ethics already
studied by the Senior class of the University.
No student will be admitted to any course of the Senior year
icntil all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic Students that are candidates* for any degree are
required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences of
Religion*
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
87
CONDITIONAL ADMISSION TO FRESHMAN CLASSES
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations in
one or more of the subjects required for admission to any
Collegiate Course may, at the discretion of the Faculty, be
admitted to his class conditionally, to make up his deficiency
by extra study within one school year. Only when the con-
ditions are removed will the student be admitted to full
standing in his class.
ADMISSION TO ADVANCED STANDING,
Candidates for admission to advanced classes in any
course are required to pass, in addition to the usual entrance
examinations, an examination in the work already done by 1
the classes they desire to enter. The additional subjects
may be found in the programme of courses.
I. School of Arts and Letters.
IL School of Science.
III.	School of Engineering.
IV.	School of Law.
SCHOOL OF ARTS AND LETTERS
PRIMARY ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books marked Group A below, the
remainder for writing three short essays (about 250 words
each) upon subjects taken from the books marked Group B.
The books prescribed until further notice are:
Group A—Milton’s Paradise Lost. Books I. and II.; Ten-
nyson’s Princess; Scott’s Lady of the Lake; Longfellow’s
Evangeline.
Group B—Longfellow’s Tales of a Way side Inn; Mil ton’s
L'Allegro. Il Penseroso. and Lycidas.
Equivalent authors will be received at the discretion of the
Examiners.
Latin—Grammar, complete; Caesar: four books of the Gallic
War; Cicero: four orations against Catiline; Virgil: Bucolics,
Georgies; Ovid: about 1,200 verses; translation at sight
of passages from Cicero and Caesar; translation of English
into Latin based on the text of the author.
Greek—(For Classical Students only.) Grammar, Etymol-
ogy, and general rules of Syntax; Xenophon: Anabasis,
four books; prose composition based on text.
History—United States—as much as is contained in John-
ston’s History of the United States, or an equivalent.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra. Jones’ Drill Book in
Algebra, or an equivalent in the larger treatises of other
authors.
89
90
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Physiology—(For English Courses onlyC) Martin’s
Human Body, or an equivalent.
Chemistry—Elements of inorganic chemistry, as given
in high schools of good standing.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute's or Gage's. laboratory work is desired, but
it is not required.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
91
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Arts.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: Birst Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description :		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin, . . .	5	35	I.	• • •	5	35	II.
Greek, . . .	5	31	I.	Greek, . . .	5	31	II.
English., . .	5	38	I.	English., . .	5	38	I.
History, . .	3	42	I.	History, , .	5	42	I.
Elective, . .	5			Elective, . .	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin, . . .	5	35	III.	Latin, . . .	5	36	IV.
Greek, . . .	5	3i	III.	Greek, . . .	5	32	IV
English, . .	5	38	II.	English, . .	5	38	IL
History, . .	5	42	II.	History, . .	5	42	II.
Elective, . .	5			Elective, . .	5		
JUNIOR YEAR.
Latin, . . .	5	38 -	V.	Latin . . .	5	36	VI.
Greek, . . .	5	32	V.	Greek, . . .	5	32	VI.
English, . .	5	39	III.	English, . .	5	39	III.
Philosophy, .	5	27	I.	Philosophy, .	5	27	II.
Political Economy, .	3	44	I.	Special History, . .	2	43	V.
SENIOR YEAR.
Latin, . . .	5	37	VII.	Latin, . . .	5	37	VIII.
Greek, . . .	5	33	VII.	Greek, . . .	5	34	VIII.
English, . .	4	39	IV.	English, . .	4	39	IV.
Philosophy, .	5	29	III.	Philosophy, .	5	29	IV.
92
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Letters*
FRESHMAN YEAR*
SUBJECTS: Birst Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description-'	
		Page	bourse
English, . .	5	3^	I.
Latin, . . .	5	35	I.
French, . .	2	44	I.
German, . .	3	46	I.
History, . .	3	42	I.
Elective, . .	5		
SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	bourse
English, . .	5	38	I.
Latin, . . .	5	35	II.
French, . .	2	44	I.
German, . .	3	46	I.
History, . .	5	42	I.
Elective, . .	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR*
English, . .	5	38	II.	English, . .	5	38	II.
Latin, . . .	5	35	III.	Latin, . . .	5	36	IV.
French, . .	2	45	II.	French, . .	2	45	II.
German, . .	3	46	II.	German, . .	3	46	II.
History, . .	5	42	II.	History, . .	5	42	II.
Elective, .	5			Elective, .	5		
JUNIOR YEAR,
English, . .	5	39	III.
Latin, . . .	5	36	V.
Philosophy, .	5	27	I.
French, . .	2	45	III.
German, . .	3	46	III.
History, . .	5	43	III.
English, . .	5	39	III.
Latin, . . .	5	36	VI.
Philosophy, .	5	27	II.
French, . .	2	45	III.
German, . .	3	46	III.
History,	5	43	III.
SENIOR YEAR,
English, . .	4	39	IV.	English, . .	4	39	IV.
Latin, . . .	5	37	VII.	Latin, . . .	5	37	VIII.
Philosophy, ,	5	29	III.	Philosophy, .	5	29	IV.
Economics, .	5	44	I.	History, . .	5	43	IV.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
SCHOOL OF SCIENCE,
Two courses are given, one a course in General Science,
the other a course in Biology.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION.
Candidates for the Freshman class of either of these
courses must be prepared to pass an examination in Arith-
metic, included in English examinations, United States
History and Geography, unless satisfactory assurance of
their proficiency in these branches is given. In addition,
they must pass an examination in the following subjects:
History—The outlines of Modern History, from the Fall of
the Roman Empire to the present time.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in
Algebra, or an equivalent in the larger treatises of other
authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Chemistry—A course of at least fifty experiments in
elementary chemistry actually performed by the pupil.
French or German—The rudiments of French or German
Grammar. Ability to translate at sight easy French or
German into English, and easy Eaglish sentences into
French or German.	-
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books marked Group A, the
94
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
remainder for writing three short essays (about 250 words
each) upon subjects taken from the books marked Group B.
The books prescribed until further notice are:
Group A—Milton’s Paradise Lost} Books I. and II.; Ten-
nyson’s Princess; Scott’s Lady of the Lake; Tongfellow’s
Evangeline.
Group B—Tongfellow’s Tales of a Way side Inn; Milton’s
L'Allegro> Il Penseroso^ and Lycidas.
Equivalent authors will be received at the discretion of the
Examiners.
Latin—Grammar, complete; Caesar: four books of the
Gallic War; translation of English into Tatin based on the
text of this author.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
95
Introduction to the Course in General Science*
The Course in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of modern
science as will best enable the student to fit himself, either
for further study of a technical or professional kind, or for
the activities of business life. The Natural and Physical
Sciences constitute the primary studies of this Course.
Grouped about these are those studies in Bnglish, Mathe-
matics, and the Modern Languages, which experience has
shown to be necessary for the intelligent pursuit of science
and for the attainment of the object of the Course.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student during the Sophomore Year and two during the
Junior Year.
The scientific work of the Senior Year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in Physics, Chemistry,
Biology, or Mathematics.
Bvery candidate for a degree in the Course of General
Science is required to submit, at least six weeks before the
final examinations, a written thesis upon some subject con-
nected with the elective work of the Senior Year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the Professor in
the course elected. The Thesis shall contain not less than
six thousand words, and must be satisfactory in matter
and treatment.
Students that complete the required courses, pass the
final examinations, and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
(The facilities for instruction in this Course are described on page 16.)
university or notre dame.
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Science*
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Physiology, .	5	79	I.	Zoology, . .	6	73	I. II.
Physics, . .	5	70	I.	Chemistry, .	4	68	I.
Chemistry, .	4	68	I.	Trigonometry,	5	47	II.
Anatomy, . .	2	78	I.	English, . .	5	38	I.
Algebra, . .	5	47	I.	French or	2	44	I.
English, . .	5	38	I.	German, .	3	46	I.
French or Ger.,	2or3	44	I.	Drawing, . .	2	65	I.
Drawing, . .	2	65	I.				
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany, . .	5	72	I.	Botany, . .	6	72	I. II.
Chemistry, .	5	68	II.	Physics, . .	4	7o	II. III.
French or	2	45	II.	Anal. Geometry	5	48	III.
German, .	3	46	II.	French or Ger.,	2 or 3	45	II.
Physics, . . English, . .	3	7o	II.	Drawing, . .	2	65	II.
	1	40	V.	English, . .	1	40	V.
Elective, . .	3			Elective, . .	3		
JUNIOR YEAR.
Geology, . .	2	81	I.	Geology, . .	7	81	II. III.
Calculus, . .	5	48	IV.	Calculus, . .	5	49	V.
Astronomy, .	5	57	I.	Astronomy, .	3	57	I.
French or				French or			
German, .	2 or 3	45	III.	German, .	2 or 3	45	III.
English, . .	1	40	V.	English, . .	I	4o	V.
One Elective,	3			One Elective,	3		
SENIOR YEAR.
Three Electives in Science, . Philosophy, . French or German. . Scientific Readings, .	9"T5 5 1	27	I.	Three Electives in Science, Philosophy, . French or German. . Scientific Readings, .	9-i5 5 1	27	II.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
97
Introduction to the Course in Biology*
The Course in Biology has been designed for students
that wish to devote their time largely to biological pursuits,
either as an immediate preparation for the study of medicine
or veterinary science, or with a view to teaching or other-
wise engaging in biological research. The students in this
Course are required to prepare an essay during the first term
of the Junior Year on some subject pertaining to biology.
Bvery candidate for a degree must submit a written thesis
of not less than six thousand words accompanied with
original drawings. This thesis must be presented two
weeks before the final examinations. Students not prepar-
ing themselves for a medical course may substitute for the
advanced Courses in Anatomy and Physiology equivalents
from either Mathematics, Physics, or Bnglish Literature.
(The facilities for instruction in this Course are described on page 16.)
98
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Science in Biology*
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS : Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Physiology, .	5	79	I.	Zoology, . .	6	73	I. II.
Physics,	5	70	I.	Chemistry,	4	68	I.
Chemistry,	4	68	I.	English, . .	5	38	I.
Anatomy, . .	2	78	I.	French, . .	2	44	I.-III.
English, . .	5	38	I.	German, .	3	46	I.-III.
French, . .	2	44	I.-III.	Drawing, . .	2	67	VIII.
German, . .	3	46	I.-III.				
Drawing, .	2	67	VIII.				

SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany, . .	5	72	I.	Botany, . .	6	72	I. II.
Gen’l Biology,	2	75	I.	Gen’l Biology,	5	75	II.
Microscopy, .	3	77	I.	Microscopy, .	1	77	II.
Chemistry,	5	68	II.	Chemistry,	7	69	IV.
French or	2	45	II.	French or	2	45	II.
German,	3	46	II.	German,	3	46	II.
Drawing, . .	2	67	IX.	Drawing, . .	2	67	IX.
English, . .	1	40	V.	English, . .	r	40	V.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Human Anatomy, .	2	78	III.	Human Anatom v, .	2	78	III.
Zoology, . .	6	73	III.	Zoology, . .	10	74	IV. V
Bacteriology, .	3	80	I.	Chemistry, .	5	69	III.
Geology, . .	2	81	I.	Geology, . .	5	81	III.
French or	2	45	III.	French or	2	45	III.
German,	3	46	III.	German,	a	46	III.
English, . .	1	40	V.	English, . .	I	40	V.
SENIOR YEAR.
Human Anatomy, .	5	78	II.III.	Human Anatomy, .	2	78	III.
Human Physiology,	4	79	n.in.	Human Physiology,	3	79	TI.
Botany, . .	10	72	in.	Botany, . .	10	72	III.
Philosophy, .	5	27	1.	Zoology, . .	3	74	VI.
			—	Philosophy, .	5	27	II.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
99
INSTRUCTION IN PHARMACY.
ADMISSION.
Applicants for admission to this Course must be at least
17 years of age. They are required to pass examinations
in Arithmetic—complete, special attention being given to
tables of weights and measures. English Grammar and
Comp0sition, and Physical Geography as given in high
schools.
Experience in a drug-store will not be accepted instead of
the entrance examinations, but it will be of great advantage
to the student in the work of this Course.
METHODS AND EQUIPMENT.
The subjects studied in this department are intended to
impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical knowl-
edge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the simplest
and gradually leading up to the most difficult and compli-
cated processes.
Especial attention is given to the little details, often
neglected in schools, which are so essential to success in any
professional work and particularly in Pharmacy. The
student is carefully drilled in store etiquette, business hints,
prescription work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in
all the operations and extreme care in the manufacture of
preparations are required throughout the Course.
On entering the laboratory the student is assigned to a
desk fully equipped with all the necessary apparatus. He
has at hand balances, percolators, mortars, graduated
glasses, hydrometers, thermometers, pill machines, Eiebig
IOO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
condensers, stills, a large assortment of porcelain, platinum
and glass utensils, sand and steam baths and other minor
articles that are included in a complete laboratory outfit.
THESIS.
During the last year the student is required to spend at
least two hours a week in original research on a subject
within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of this work
are carefully recorded and must be typewritten aad presented
to the faculty as a requirement for graduation.
DIPLOMA.
The degree of Graduate in Pharmacy (G. Ph.) is con-
ferred on completion of the work laid down in the Course.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular tuition fee covering cost of
board, room, etc., the student is required to pay a laboratory
fee of ^25.00 a year to cover cost of materials consumed and
deterioration of the apparatus used. This one fee includes
all the laboratory work during the year—chemical, biolog-
ical and pharmaceutical.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
IOI
<
Studies Prescribed for Pharmacy.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description :	
		Page	Course
Pharmacy, .	5	75	I.
Chemistry, .	3	68	I. a
Algebra, . .	5	149	*
Latin, . . .	5	147	t
Botany, . .	5	72	I.
SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course
Pharmacy, .	5	75	I.
Chemistry, .	2	68	I.b
Physics, . .	5	70	I.
Latin, . . .	5	147	i
Botany, . .	5	72	I.
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy, .	6	76	II.III.	Pharmacy, .	6	76	II. III.
Chemistry, .	5	68	II.	Chemistry, .	5	69	III.
Fnglish, . .	5	38	I.	Fnglish, . .	5	38	I.
Algebra, . .	5	149	II	Geometry, .	5	150	n
Isatin, > • •	5	148	§	Latin, . « .	5	148	
THIRD YEAR.
Pharmacy, .	5	76	IV.	Pharmacy, .	5	76	IV.
Chemistry, .	7	69	IV.	Physiology, .	3	79	II.
Physiology, .	5	79	I.	Materia Medica	-5	76	V.
Bacteriology,	3	80	I.	Toxicology, .	5	69	V.
Thesis, . .	2			Thesis, . .	2		
* Second term, second year.
f First term, first year.
$ Second term, first year.
|| First term, third year.
g First term, second year.
fl First term, third year.
Second term, second year.
102
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING.
Three regular courses are offered: one leading to the
degree of Civil Engineer, one to the degree of Mechanical
Engineer, and another to the degree of Mechanical Engineer
in Electrical Engineering.
A special Short Course in Electrical Engineering is
offered to accommodate those that wish to fit themselves
for practical work in the shortest possible time.
A student should not take up any one of these courses
unless he has a natural aptitude for mathematics. A liking
for machinery and tools is of great advantage in Mechanical
or Electrical Engineering.
Special attention is given to the practical work of Engi-
neering in the laboratories and draughting rooms. The
exercises in calculating, designing and constructing are
made to conform as nearly as possible to the best modern
engineering practice.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and consider-
able time is given to technical work in the laboratories.
(For a list of available apparatus, see pages 14-15.)
In the schedule of studies one hour credit is given for
each recitation or lecture which requires from one to two
hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in laboratory
work or drawing are required for each hour on the schedule.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
103
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fees for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 24, the regular
students in the three Engineering Courses are required to
pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of materials
consumed and the deterioration of the apparatus used, as
follows:
Freshman Year, $20.00.	Junior Year, $30.00.
Sophomore Year, $30.00.	Senior Year, $20.00.
First year of the Short Course in E. E., $20.00.
Second year “	“	“	“	$30.00.
ADMISSION.
Candidates for admission to the Freshman Year must be
at least 17 years of age. For advanced standing there must
be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
Written examinations in the following subjects required
for admission will be held at the University on the first
two days of the fall term at the beginning of the school
year :
Arithmetic—Complete, including the metric system of
weights and measures. Special importance is attached to
accuracy in calculations and the practical application of rules.
Algebra — Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book
in Algebra, or an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
104
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME-
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
History—United States—as much as is contained in John-
ston’s History of the United States, or an equivalent.
Geography—Political and Physical, as much as is con-
tained in the larger school geographies.
Physics—Blementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experiments,
and recitations from a text-book similar to Car hart and
Chute's, or Gage's. Laboratory work is desirable but it is
not required.
Chemistry—The elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in good high schools.
World's History—{For Civil Engineering only.} Out-
lines of the World’s History, as contained in Wilson’s
History, or an equivalent.
Botany—{For Civil Engineering only.} As given in
elementary text-books.
Physiology and Hygiene—{For Civil Engineering only.}
As given in elementary text-books.
Zoology—{For Civil Engineering only.} As given in
elementary text-books.
French and German—{Only one language is required.}
A knowledge of elementary grammar and an ability to read
ordinary prose at sight. This should be acquired by the
reading of about three hundred pages of annotated text,
including historical narrative and popular science in con-
nection with the study of grammar.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books marked Group A, the
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	105
remainder for writing three short essays (about 250 words
each) upon subjects taken from the books marked Group B.
The books prescribed until further notice are:
Group A—Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II.; Ten-
nyson’s Princess; Scott’s Lady of the Lake; Longfellow’s
Evangeline.
Group B—Longfellow’s Talesofa Way side Inn; Milton’s
L ’Allegro, Il Penseroso, and Lycidas.
Equivalent authors will be received at the discretion of the
Examiners.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfactorily -
he may begin at once the regular Freshman work; but
if he is deficient in one or more subjects he may enter con-
ditionally and make up his deficiency as soon as possible in
the Preparatory Department.
Those that are prepared to pass the entrance examination
in German will take both French and German in the Fresh-
man Year and French only in the Sophomore Year, while if
French is presented at the entrance examination both lang-
uages will be studied in the Freshman Year and German
only in the Sophomore Year. The intention in either case
is to give a reading knowledge of technical works.
io6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Civil Engineering*
^>5
The Courses of instruction are designed to prepare students
by a thorough and systematic training in the sciences and in
the principles of Civil Engineering, to perform intelligently
the duties of their profession either in the office or in some
' of the responsible positions superintending the construction
and operation of public works. To secure these results the
student is given, not only a sound1 theoretical training in the
studies of the Courses, but he is also required to study
the practical applications of the principles upon which the
theory is based. The first two years are devoted to the
study of Mathematics and the theoretical branches. The
last two years are given to the study of the applied courses,
practical work in the laboratory and field, so much as
possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German to
enable the student to read easily and understandingly
professional works in these languages; while the study of
English is pursued until the student is qualified to prepare
acceptable themes on professional subjects. Instruction
based upon standard text-books is given throughout the
course by means of lectures, recitations, practice in labora-
tory, drawing room, and field. This work is largely supple-
mented by assigning to the student, for solution, practical
problems bearing directly upon the subject matter discussed
in the class room and requiring original investigation, thus
training the student to habits of independence and awaken-
ing his interest in the work of his course.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of field
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
107
Engineering-. After the student is taught the use and
adjustments of the instruments, surveys, elementary in
character, are commenced and continued progressively until
the more difficult principles and methods are understood.
In a similar manner is instruction given in the Courses,
Sanitary Engineering, Hydromechanics, Resistance of
Materials, Bridges and Roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the
student with practical Engineering subjects, and the most
approved methods of execution and designing.
A Thesis on some approved subject connected with the
course of study, is required of each student as a condition
of graduation. The Thesis must embody the results of
original research, and must be of suitable length, acceptable
in form, matter, and style.
io8
university of notre dame.
Studies Prescribed for Civil Engineering*
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description :		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description :	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, . .	5	47	I.	Analytic Geom.	5	48	III.
Trigonometry,	5	47	II.	Surveying, .	5	50	II. III.
English, . .	5	38	I.	English, . .	5	38	I.
French, . .	2	44	I.	French, . .	2	45	II.
German, . .	3	46	I.	German, . .	3	46	II.
Chemistry,	3	68	I.	Chemistry, .	3	68	I.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, . .	5	48	!V. ,	Calculus, . .	5	49	V.
Des. Geometry,	3	50	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	5o	I.
R.R. Surveying	4	5i	VI. VII.	Adv. Surveying	5	5i	IV. V.
English, . .	1	40	V.	English, . .	1	40	V.
Physics, . .	3	70	II.	Physics, . .	3	70	II.
Drawing, . .	4	65	I.	Drawing, . .	4	65	I.
French, . .	2	45	III.	French, . .	2	45	III.
German, . .	3	46	III.	German, . .	3	46	III.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics,	5	52	VIII.	Mechanics of Materials, .	5	52	IX.
Astronomy, .	5	57	I.	Resistance of			
Geodesy, .	4	56	XVIII	Materials, .	3	53	XI.
English, . .	1	40	V.	Astronomy, .	3	57	:i
Philosophy, .	5	27	I.	English, . . Philosophy, .	1	40	
Geology, . .	4	81	I.		5	27	11.
Drawing, . .	4	66	V.	Geology, . .	5	81	hi.
				Stereotomy, .	2	56	XVII.
				Drawing, . .	2	66	VI.
SENIOR YEAR.
Engineering, .	5	55	XIV.-	Engineering,	5	55	XIV.
Meehan. Kinet.	4	53		Bridges, Roofs,	3	54	XII.
Bridges, Roofs,	3	54	xii.	Hydromechan,	3	55	XVI.
Sanitary Eng.,	3	55	XV.	Graphical Stat	5	54	xin.
Hydromechan.,	3	,55	XVI.	Drawing, .	4	67	VII.
Drawing, . .	4	67	VII.	Thesis Work,			
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME-
I09
Introduction to the Course in Mechanical
Engineering,
The Course in Mechanical Engineering, leading to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, is given to those young
men that wish to prepare themselves for the designing of
machinery, with its appurtenances, and for the successful
management of power-plants. As the course requires a
thorough knowledge of Pure and Applied Mathematics, as
well as of Physics, only those capable of adapting them-
selves to these requirements should take it up. The course
is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough fundamental
training is essential to success in engineering, and that this
training is best secured by a study of the practical applica-
tion of the principles involved, as well as of the theoretical
principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of the
study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used in
Mechanical Engineering, accompanied by the science of
pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions of
connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions or to the work done or energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct develop-
ment of -kinematics, and the course continues throughout
the Junior and Senior Years.
The Courses in Shop work are most complete. The first
years’ work is confined to practice in the woodshop, in
which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When students have become sufficiently
IIO
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
skilled in woodwork, they take up the work of the foundry,
blacksmith shop, and machine shop. During the ensuing
year the advanced students will undertake the construction,
from an original design, of a rotary steam engine. A sys-
tematic course of training is provided, which advances the
student by easy steps until he has mastered all the details
of the art.
The latter part of the Senior Year is largely taken up in
the preparation of a Graduating Thesis. Here especially
the student is taught to depend as much as possible upon
his own resources and abilities in exercising his ingenuity.
It is the culminating effort of the Course, embodying the
chief results, and is expected to show considerable originality.
(For the equipment of the shops in which the courses are given, see
Page 18.)
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Ill
Studies Prescribed for Mechanical Engineering*
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS; First Term.	Hours a Week	SEE FOR Description :		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description :	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, . .	5	47	I.	Anal. Geometry	5	48	III.
Trigonometry,	5	47	II.	English, . .	5	38	I.
English, . .	5	38	I.	French,	2	44	I.
Flench, . .	2	44	I.	German, . .	3	46	II.
German, . .	3	46	II.	Drawing, . .	3	65	II.
Drawing, . .	3	65	I.	Chemistry, .	2	68	I. b
Chemistry,	o o	68	I. a	Shopwork,	5	61	X. a
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, . .	5	48	IV.	Calculus, . .	5	49	V.
Descriptive				Des. Geometry,	3	50	I.
Geometry, .	3	50	I.	Drawing, . .	3	65	II.
Drawing, . .	2	65	II.	English, . .	1	40	V.
English, . .	1	40	V.	French, . .	2	45	II.
French, . .	2	45	II.	Chemistry, .	5	69	III.
Chemistry,	5	68	II.	Physics, . .	40	70	II. III.
Physics, . .	3	70	II.	Shopwork,	I	61	X. c
Shopwork,	4	61	X. b				
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytical Mechanics,	5	52	VIII.	Meehan, of Eng. Machine design	5 3	52 60	IX.
Kinematics, .	5	59	V.	Valve Gears,	2	60	vii.
English, . .	1	40	V.	Electrical Eng.	2	63	in.
Drawing, . .	3	66	IV.	English, . .	1	4o	V.
Physics, . .	3	7i	IV.	Drawing, . .	3	66	IV.
Shopwork,	5	61	X. d	Shopwork,	5	61	X. e
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of Engineering,	5	58	II.	Thermodynam. Steam Engine	5	58	I.
Thermodynam.	5	58	I.	Design, .	5	59	III.
Steam Engine				Steam Boilers,	3	59	IV.
Design, . .	5	59	III.	Thesis, . .	12	61	IX.
MechanicalEab.	3	60	VIII.	Philosophy, .	5	27	II.
Shopwork,	5	61	X. e				
Philosophy, .	5	27	I.				
112
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Electrical
Engineering*

The remarkable development of electrical industries dur-
ing the past few years has created a demand for men skilled
in the theory and practice of Electrical and Mechanical
work. The study of the subjects arranged on the following
page is intended to give a general education as well as
special training in the technical branches involved in the
various practical applications of electricity in industrial
pursuits.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations from
standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops the
operations explained in the class room are performed by
the student, in which he acquires some skill in handling
tools and instruments, and obtains a working knowledge of
the principles involved. Careful records of the work done in
the laboratories are kept by the student and are handed in
for suggestions and corrections at the end of every week.
(Bor requirements of admission, degree, etc., see pages 102-103.)
THESIS*
Each candidate for a degree is required to prepare during
the Senior Year an acceptable Thesis embodying the results
of an extended original research on an Engineering subject,
chosen at the beginning of the year, with the approval of the
head of the department. The descriptive part must be
typewritten and the drawings carefully made on white
cardboard.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
113
Studies Prescribed for Electrical Engineering*
PRESHMAN YEAR*
SUBJECTS : First Term.	Hours a Week	SEE FOR Description :	
		Page	Course
Trigonometry,	5	47	II.
Algebra,	5	47	I.
English, . .	5	38	I.
French, . .	2	44	I.
German, . .	3	46	II.
Chemistry,	4	68	I.
Drawing, . .	2	65	I.
SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course
Anal. Geometry	5	48	III.
English, . .	5	38	I.
French, . .	2	44	I.
German, . .	3	46	II.
Chemistry,	4	68	I.
Drawing, . .	2	65	II.
Shop work,	4	61	X. a
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculns, . .	5	48	IV.	Calculus, . .	5	49	V.
Descriptive				Des. Geometry,	2	50	I.
Geometry, .	2	50	I.	Drawing, . .	2	66	III.
Chemistry,	5	68	II.	Shopwork, .	4	61	X. c
Drawing, . .	3	66	II. III.	Physics, . .	4	70	II.III.
Shopwork,	4	61	X.b	Electricity and			
Phy.-ics, . .	3	70	II.	Magnetism,	2	63	III.
English, . .	1	40	V.	English, . .	1	40	V.
French or Ger.,	2	44-46		French or Ger.,	2	44-46	
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic				Mechanics of			
Mechanics, .	5	52	VIII.	Materials, .	5	52	
Kinematics, .	5	59	V.	MachineDesign	5	60	VI. VII
Physical Dab.,	3	7i	IV.	Physical Dab.,	0	7i	IV.
Drawing, . .	2	66	IV.	Drawing, . .	2	66	IV
Shopwork,	4	61	X.d	Shopwork,	4	61	X. e
Philosophy, .	5	27	I.	Philosophy, .	5	27	II.
English, . .	1	40	V.	English, . .	1	40	V.
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo Machinery,	5	63	IV.	Dynamo Machinery,	5	63	IV.
Thermodynam.,	5	58	I.	Thermodynam.	5	58	I.
Electrical Dab.,	5	63	V.	Electrical Dab.,	5	63	V.
Drawing, . .	3	64	VI.	Drawing, . .	3	64	VI.
Thesis, . . .				Thesis, . . .			
114
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Short Course in Applied Electricity*
Students that do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year course
should enter this shorter course, which may be completed in
two years. It is arranged to give an accurate knowledge of
the fundamental theories of electricity and magnetism, as
well as a certain amount of skill in handling electrical
machinery and appliances. Simple algebra, geometry,
trigonometry, and elementary physics and chemistry are
included, for they are necessary in order to carry on success-
fully the practical work of designing, manufacturing, and
testing or operating electrical apparatus. Training in this
practical work is given in the draughting room, the machine
shops, and in the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application of
electricity to the distribution of light and power are learned
by testing, repairing, and making additions to the Univer-
sity plant and by visiting the numerous electric plants in
the vicinity, accompanied by an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is taken
up early in the course and sufficient practice is given to
enable the student to make working drawings and to follow
them in the construction of apparatus in the shops and
laboratories.
Applicants for admission to this Course should be at least
seventeen years of age. They should have a fair knowledge
of the subjects taught in the common schools, especially
arithmetic.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily com-
pleted, a certificate stating that fact is issued.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Hi
Studies Prescribed for Short Course in
Applied Electricity,
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, . .	5	149	vr	Algebra, . .	5	149	t
Drawing, . .	3	65	I.	Geometry, .	5	150	11
Shop work, .	3	61	X. a	Drawing, . .	4	65	II.
Physics, . .	3	70	I.	Shop work, .	5	6l	X. b
Chemistry, .	2	150	t	Physics, . .	2	70	I.
Blectricity, .	5	• 62	I.	Blectricity, .	5	62	I.
SECOND YEAR.
Trigonometry,	5	47	II.	Analytic	5		
Drawing, . .	3	64	VI.	Geometry,..		48	III.
Shopwork, .	3	61	X. c	Drawing, . .	3	64	VI.
Blectricity, .	5	62	II.	Shopwork,' .	3	61	X. d
Blectrical				Blectricity, .	5	62	II.
Construction,	5	62	II.	Blectrical			
				Construction,	5	62	II.
* Second term, second year.
f First term, third year.
j: First term, third year.
J First term, third year.
School of Law«
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
117
FACULTY.
rev. Andrew morrissey, c. s. c.,
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D., Dean,
International Law, Equity Jurisprudence and Pleadings,
Common Law Pleadings, Real and. Personal
Property, Evidence, Domestic Relations,
Contracts, Torts, etc.
Hon. LUCIUS HUBBARD, LL. D.,
Code Pleadings and Practice.
ABRAHAM L. BRICK, LL. M.,
Criminal Law.
Hon. TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Appellate Jurisdiction of Courts of Last Resort.
Rev. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Medical Jurisprudence.
n8
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
SCHOOL OF LAW.
For several years a systematic movement has been in
progress under the auspices of the bench and bar of the
country to promote the efficiency and welfare of the legal
profession, and to make it as learned in fact as it is by
repute. The most essential preliminary step to this end, as
lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe requirements and
examinations more comprehensive and rigorous as a test of
qualifications for
ADMISSION TO THE BAR,
Upon the law departments of universities, or law schools,
as they may collectively be called, the profession must
mainly depend for co-operation and success in this laudable
undertaking. In fact, due acknowledgment of the import-
ance of their services is made as follows in a former report
of the Committee on Legal Education of the American Bar
Association:
‘ ‘ The benefits which law schools offer are easily suggested, and
are of the most superior kind. They afford the student an acquaint-
ance with general principles, difficult if not impossible to be otherwise
obtained; they serve to remove difficulties which are inherent in
scientific and technical phraseology, and as a necessary consequence
they furnish the student with the means for clear conception and
accurate and precise expression. They familiarize him with leading
cases, and the application of them to discussion. They give him the
valuable habit of attention, teach him familiar maxims, and offer him
the priceless opportunities which result from contact and generous
emulation. They lead him readily to survey the law as a science,
and imbue him with the principles of ethics as its true foundation.
Disputing, reasoning, reading, and discoursing, become his constant
exercises; he improves remarkably as he becomes acquainted with
them, and obtains progress otherwise beyond his reach.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	119
According to the late Chief Justice Waite, of the United
States Supreme Court, “haw schools are now a necessity.”
And, in his work entitled “ The American Commonwealth,”
Professor Bryce attributes the progress in learning and
professional attainments of American lawyers “to the
extraordinary excellence of many of the law schools.”
It is probably well that the Professor qualifies his state-
ment by using the word “many,” instead of “all,” in
referring to the work of the law schools of the country, for
not a few of them have been derelict and lacking in whole-
some zeal to co-operate in elevating the standard of profes-
sional learning and ethics. Some of them still permit
persons deficient even in the rudiments of a liberal education
to become candidates for diplomas. Their attitude in this
respect would seem to indicate that a large attendance and
substantial revenue are placed paramount in the scale of
importance to substantial results in the equipment and
training of students. Such of these as manage without
further preparation to secure admission to the bar almost
necessarily commit gross mistakes in the technical work of
the profession, and, in consequence, clients are wronged,
judges embarrassed and courts delayed. While it is true
that many of them abandon the practice after a precarious
experience and turn to pursuits for which they are better
qualified, yet the step is attended in some measure with
disappointment and humiliation, not to mention the com-
parative loss of time and means incident to preparing for
examination and waiting vainly for success at the bar.
The movement in progress to protect and promote the
interests of the legal profession has spread sufficiently of
late to become an obstacle to the continuance of these abuses,
exceptional though they be. Hereafter such law schools as
receive students indiscriminately, without particular regard
to their educational standing, maintaining a loose system of
120
UNIVERSITY* OE NOTRE DAME.
instruction and permitting loose methods of study, must in
most States, at any rate, suffer the humiliation incident to
the rejection as incompetent of their graduates by the
examining boards designated to pass upon the qualifications
of applicants for admission to the bar. This movement is
salutary in all respects, and law schools that fail to conform
to it in the duration and thoroughness of their courses of
instruction have no valid claim upon the patronage of stu-
dents or the confidence of the public.
It is becoming more difficult year by year successfully to
meet the requirements and pass the examinations prescribed
for admission to the bar, and law schools are bound to take
cognizance of the fact and correspondingly broaden and
strengthen their courses of instruction. A few years ago it
was far less difficult than it is at present to enter the ranks
of the profession, and the decided tendency is to make
even more exacting the test of qualifications for membership.
With this tendency uninterrupted, the profession gives
promise of attaining to its coveted ideal in learning, ethics
and efficiency.
And here it is in order to refer more particularly to
THE SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION ■
in the Taw Department of the University of Notre Dame,
although, of course, it is included in general terms in what
has been stated regarding the duty of law schools to aid in
promoting the laudable aims and general welfare of the legal
profession.
Referring briefly to the prevailing methods of instruction
in the different law schools, it may be stated that in some of
them the text-book system is exclusively followed, and the
students read and recite daily an assigned lesson of a given
number of pages; in others the lecture system obtains, as in
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	121
European universities, and students familiar with phonog-
raphy may take notes and sufficiently study the same to be
able in subsequent examinations to answer questions bearing
upon the subjects studied; in a few others, taking as guide a
noted pastern university, case reading is the favored system,
and students study books of selected cases treating of
different branches of the law, with a view to reciting them
in outline or writing a brief digest of the points involved;
in certain other schools an effort has been made to combine
some of the distinctive features of case reading and text-book
work or lecturing, and a mixed system, as it may be called,
exists in them. At Notre Dame, however, none of these
systems is exclusively followed. And yet the best features
of all are comprised in the curriculum here preferred. It is
believed, in short, that nowhere in the country is the course
in law more comprehensive, thorough and practical than at
this University.
Case reading is usually taken up early in September year
by year, and continued long enough to enable students to
.understand, analyze and criticize the cases assigned to them
for study and recitation. The difficulties usually encount-
ered by beginners in the work are readily surmounted by
the aid of lectures and explanations. In a course of about
seventy-five hours students ordinarily become familiar with
a number of the leading cases and learn to recognize features
of strength or weakness in the opinions of the courts. They
learn also to distinguish dicta from the logical sequence of
thought in dealing with the proper subjects of judicial
determination, and recognize promptly the qualifying or
weakening effect of a dissenting opinion, where such is filed
by a minority of the judges. Moreover, after familiarizing
themselves in that way with cases, they are advised and
expected to read the authorities cited daily in class, whether
in the text-books, lectures, or quizzes. In the preparation
122
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
also of written theses from month to month, comprising on
an average about ten pages of legal cap, they must nec-
essarily consult and cite them. In moot-court work like-
wise they are prompted in their foretaste of forensic contests
by a strong emulation to make a careful study of the perti-
nent portions of text-books and digests and the cases in the
reports, and thus they are enabled intelligently to marshal
the authorities upon which they depend for success in the
maintenance of their respective contentions. In this way it
may be possible for them to acquire without conscious loss
of time a more accurate and serviceable knowledge of the
practical force, effect and merit of the reported opinions .
than do those who give their time exclusively to the some-
what incoherent and fragmentary system of case reading.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts of
some States require applicants to furnish lists of the text-
books studied by them, and such of these applicants as have
merely attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligible to
stand as candidates for examination, even though they
might creditably acquit themselves in it. If they undertake
to explain how the law may be learned without studying a
certain number of text-books, they find the examiners
inclined to listen incredulously, if not openly and positively
to express doubt or dissent. And if they ask credit for the
work done, it is likely to be given so sparingly as to cause
disappointment and discouragement. As some of the law
students at Notre Dame come from States in which this test
is applied in examinations, the use of text-books is deemed
advisable, if not necessary. But there are other reasons for
using them. It has been found, for example, that so many
mistakes are made by the average student in taking notes of
lectures that his notes are sometimes unintelligible or mis-
leading, and consequently practically worthless for future
university or notre dame.
123
reference. While it is true that this objection might be
removed by resorting to the slow, if not tedious, process of
dictation, time being thus given the students to commit fully
and accurately to writing all the important principles con-
tained in the lectures, yet this method of instruction would
manifestly be impracticable under present conditions in a
domain so extensive as the law. Moreover, the books used
by students become peculiarly available in their subsequent
practice. Remembering more or less clearly the contents,
they can turn more readily than they could with books they
had not studied to the pages that elucidate the questions
with which they may afterwards have to deal at the
instance of clients. In some law schools lectures have
been taken in full by certain students skilled in phonography,
and then typewritten and sold at so much a page to other
members of the class, but this practice has fallen into
disfavor and disuse, having proved to be very unsatisfactory
and more costly than the purchase of text-books.
The lecture or dictation system alone may be pronounced
antiquated and impracticable for the reasons already stated,
but in combination with text-book work, case reading and
daily examinations, its great value and practical utility can-
not be impugned. At Notre Dame it forms an important
factor in the law curriculum. Bach subject is fully covered
by lectures, text-book work, daily and bi-monthly examina-
tions, monthly theses, the reading of pertinent cases and
weekly trials in the moot and other courts of the Daw
Department.
This course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough,
and practical. It is not and cannot be excelled. It may be
stated without qualification or reserve that the earnest and
industrious student can accomplish twice as much in a given
time at Notre Dame as he can in an office or at home.
With comparative immunity from the distractions and
9
124	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
temptations of city life, he can give his entire time to study
and necessary recreation. In short, he can here study a
greater number of hours and do more class-work day by day
than probably anywhere else in the entire country.
The authorities of the University, it may be repeated, are
sincerely in sympathy with the efforts now making in
educational and legal circles to raise to the highest plane
practicable
THE STANDARD OF PROFICIENCY
for graduation in law and admission to the bar. However,
they aim to be guided in the matter by the dictates of sound
reason. They know that a great number of worthy and
capable young men who desire to qualify themselves for the
legal profession are prevented by circumstances from com-
pleting the studies of a collegiate course before an age that
seems to make imperative the obligation or beginning with-
out delay the study of law. Such young men, many of
whom may be actively engaged in business, in teaching, in
journalistic work, and the like, are almost necessarily driven
to the chaotic and discouraging study of the law in offices,
if denied indulgent consideration by the institutions of
higher learning.
It is conceived to be the duty of a university to do all the
good it can to as many as possible, consistently with its cur-
riculum and standing; and to that end it ought to aid and
encourage, to the full limit of its opportunities, worthy and
upright, honest and capable young men who manifest an
earnest desire to qualify themselves for a useful and credit-
able career in the higher walks of professional life. With a
view to doing its full share in this regard, the University
of Notre Dame will welcome to its halls and its classes every
deserving young man wTho desires to pursue and become
proficient in the study of the law. However, if his standing
•UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
125
in general education or collegiate work be not sufficiently
advanced to enable him to undertake with profit the studies
of the Junior year in law, he may enter the Elementary
class, the members of which are given instruction in the
fundamental principles of the law for an hour each day.
The remainder of his time is devoted to study and recitation
in such of the collegiate courses as, in the opinion of the
authorities, may prove most useful and helpful in qualifying
him to enter as speedily as practicable upon the studies of
the Junior and Senior classes.
A faithful discharge of the duties devolving upon
students in these classes will demand their entire time.
Every hour of the day can be devoted profitably to the work
assigned to them. Even the postgraduate students, who
have only law work to do, find that this keeps them very
busy. And yet it seems that, in an indulgent spirit, an
exception ought to be made- in the interest of such students
as by previous study in other law schools, or law offices, or
actual practice as attorneys, have acquired the right to be
credited with work acceptably done or advanced standing
in the course. It is deemed only fair and proper to allow
such as these to take electively any additional studies they
may choose in the regular or special courses of the Univer-
sity. But this option may not be exercised without permis-
sion and reasonable assurance that it will not interfere with
the work prescribed for students of the Eaw Department.
The rule requiring regularity in class attendance is
imperative. Once students enter a class they are expected
to remain in it for the session at least, faithfully performing
the duties it imposes upon them. They may thus, by
coming to Notre Dame to complete their legal studies,
materially add to their attainments in any other branches
of knowledge likely to be helpful to them in their practice
as lawyers.
126
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
This fact tends pertinently to illustrate the special advan-
tages to be derived from studying law at a university.
There the educational atmosphere is elevating, broadening,
exhilarating. It awakens an invigorating spirit of emula-
tion. It encourages the exercise of all the faculties and
intellectual powers. It serves as a potent and wholesome
force in the development of mind and body. The impressive
lesson it inculcates relative to the past, the present and the
future—the manifold duties of life—necessarily directs the
thoughtful to paths of knowledge and usefulness. It
awakens life-directing forces that else would perhaps ever
lie dormant. It tends to turn thought and action toward
high ideals, aspiring scholarship, sturdy self-reliance and
increasing power and influence at the bar.
Students who do not intend to practice law or become
candidates for the degree of I/L. B., but wish simply to add
to their educational acquirements a knowledge of the
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE LAW
may at any time during the year, with proper permission,
have their names enrolled on the list of students in the
Blementary class of this Department. No extra expense is
thereby entailed. However, such students must be suffi-
ciently advanced in age and education to justify the belief .that
they can understand and appreciate instruction in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily,
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that an edu-
cation is not complete without a knowledge of at least the
elementary principles of the law. Many a man in trade has
had to face financial ruin on account of want of acquaintance
with the fundamental legal principles. Although in theory,
at least, every person is presumed to know the law, yet many
a man has, by an inconsiderate act, due to his ignorance of
it, forfeited claim to the protection of the courts and the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	127
vindication of his rights. Many a person has been forced
to do exactly the contrary to what he intended through his
failure to understand the essential elements of a contract.
Many a one has been compelled to pay heavy damages for
personal injuries caused by negligence, or failure to perform
a duty, or improper performance of it, where no liability
would exist if the ‘ ‘ law of torts ’ ’ had been known and
observed. As the law is over and around every creature
from the first moment of his being until the grave closes
upon him and his estate is settled, it would be impossible to
overestimate its utility and importance. Indeed, there is
no study that can at all compare with it in practical utility,
in training the mind to accuracy of observation, and in
strengthening the judgment.
A period of three years is prescribed for under-graduates
in the
COURSE OF STUDY
in the Law Department of this University. It leads when
satisfactorily completed to the degree of LL- B. The Post-
graduate course comprises an additional or fourth year, and
leads to the degree of LL. M. By its charter this Uni-
versity is empowered to confer these and all other degrees
appertaining to the courses of study in educational institu-
tions of the highest rank. There is no university that has
greater power under the law in this respect. The under-
graduate students of the Law Department are divided into
three classes, corresponding to each year of the course
leading to the degree of LL- B. They are known respec-
tively as the Elementary, Junior and Senior classes. The
Postgraduate course is for students who have received that
degree and aim at attaining by further study and practical
work to a higher order of proficiency. A full year of study
in each class is obligatory. Moreover, the students must
128
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME-
pass a satisfactory general examination at the close of each
scholastic year. This test is indispensable as a condition of
promotion in the Elementary and Junior classes and as
evidence of qualifications for graduation in the Senior class.
The subjects of study and the work to be done in each class
may briefly be outlined:
ELEMENTARY CLASS—FIRST YEAR.
An hour daily is given to instruction, recitation and work
in the class-room during the first year. The class-room,
commodious and well-appointed, is in the main building.
The regular course of instruction consists in text-book work,
lectures, quizzes, written exercises and attendance weekly
at moot-court trials and society meetings. The books pri-
marily used are Blackstone's and Kent's Commentaries.
Such other works on elementary law are also used as, from
time to time, seem best adapted and most available for pur-
poses of instruction. Of these mention may be made of
Walker s American Law, Smith's Elementary Law, Mun-
son's Elementary Practice, Keener's Selections on Jurispru-
dence, Holland's Elements of Jurisprudence, Fishback's
Manual of Elementary Law, and the like. Such of these
as may seem most available for class purposes at any partic-
ular time may be studied in addition to the books primarily
used. The recently published edition of Blackstone's Com-
mentaries, by Dr. William Draper Lewis, is justly regarded
as the best and most complete known to the profession,
although the chart feature of Blickenderfer's Abridgment oj
Blackstone is much appreciated by students. Browne's
Blackstone, too, is a carefully prepared summary in one
volume of the essential elements of the original work.
Browne's Edition of Kent's Commentaries is also a useful
summary in one volume of the original treatise. However,
it is usually safer for students to purchase their books after
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
I29
joining the class, for uniformity is thus assured, as well as a
reduction in price. This suggestion applies not only to the
Elementary, but also to the other classes.
Persons who desire to become members of this class must
be at least eighteen years of age and entitled to collegiate
standing in their general education. However, ample oppor-
tunity is afforded them to pursue such additional studies as
may seem useful in preparing them for a successful career in
the law. Eor example, a knowledge of Latin, Logic,
History, Belles-Lettres, Political Economy, and the like,
would be very helpful to them. Other subjects also, in
which they may either regard themselves as deficient or wish
to excel, may likewise be entered on their lists of studies.
Should it be deemed necessary or advisable for them to per-
fect themselves in these studies, whether one year or several
years be requisite, it would be entirely practicable mean-
while to attend the exercises of the Elementary class.
Work thus done would necessarily serve to broaden and
deepen the foundation of subsequent work in the Junior
and Senior years, making it peculiarly effective and prom-
ising. The work done in this class is exceptionally instruc-
tive and interesting for beginners, and there is sufficient
change in it annually to sustain interest and make attend-
ance profitable, though continued for two or more years.
JUNIOR CLASS-SECOND YEAR.
When a student enters this class his close attention, and
earnest thoughts, and best efforts must be directed exclus-
ively, with seldom an exception, to the study of the law.
He must attend class exercises at least three hours daily.
This he must do for the entire scholastic year. Otherwise
he cannot be regarded as entitled to promotion to the Senior
class or as a candidate for graduation. He must do the full
130
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
work of the year if he would advance with his class and
share its honors.
If the student be a collegiate postgraduate in the Classics,
Sciences, Letters, or the like, or has attained to equivalent
acquirements by work and experience in professional pur-
suits, or lines of thought and study kindred to the law, he
may be eligible primarily to membership in this class. In
such case it would be necessary for him to undertake and
perform the most essential work of the Elementary class in
addition to his other duties. The practicability of the under-
taking may be inferred from the fact that it is sought to do
in this class fully the work of a year and a half, as gauged
by the curricula of other educational institutions. That
this has been done in many instances cannot be doubted,
although there has never been special reference to any other
institution, with a view to competition or as an incentive to
exceptional effort. Presumably the result is due to a pro-
gressive system of instruction, more classes daily, a greater
number of hours for study and the purpose of each member
of the Eaculty to do his best in the performance of duty.
But, notwithstanding these facts, it is necessary for many of
the students, no matter how well advanced or finished their
education, to take the full course of three years. The fact
that they might accomplish in two years all that is ordinarily
done in three, makes no difference. This is due to the
action of courts and legislatures in several States. A rule
has been established requiring three years of actual study of
the law as a prerequisite to applying for admission to the
bar. Persons from these States must take the full three
years’ course, including the Elementary class. However,
if their general education be finished, and it seem super-
fluous to do further collegiate work, they may select in
preference the Junior, Senior and Postgraduate years as
covering the-time required for study in their States. Of
UNIVERSITY OB NOTRE DAME.
131
course, this question will not arise in States that require only-
two years of study, and students from such States who are
entitled to postgraduate standing ought to be able to do in
two years the ordinary work of three, and thus qualify
themselves in that time to undergo without difficulty the
most rigorous examination for admission to the bar.
In arranging the course of study it is sought to take
subjects in their logical sequence. The less difficult, though
by no means the less important, come in the Junior year,
while the more technical are dealt with in the Senior year,
except in the case of Pleadings and Evidence. A knowl-
•edge of these renders moot court work intelligible and
profitable to an exceptional degree, and hence they enter
into the plan of instruction in the Junior year. The moot
court practice is an important factor in the course of instruc-
tion for all the classes, and there can be no question regard-
ing the advisability of learning and applying the rules of
pleading and evidence at as early a date as practicable.
Following are the chief subjects of study in the Junior year
and the names of some of the authors of text-books dealing
*
with them:
The Common and Statutory Laws, with Exercises in Case
Reading and Statutory Construction*
Black on Interpretation of Laws, Bishop's Written Law,
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Curtis' Federal
Statutes.
Persons and Domestic Relations*
Tiffany, Dwight, Schouler Reeves.
The Law of Contracts*
Clark, Lawson, Bishop, Beach, Anson, Parsons.
The Law of Torts*
Hale, Jaggard, Cooley, Hilliard, Addison, Bishop's Non-
Contract Law.
132
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Criminal Law and Procedure.
Clark, Bishop, Heard, May, Hawley & McGregor, Wash-
burn, Wharton, Stephen.
Medical Jurisprudence
Reese, Beck, Dean, Taylor.
Common Law Pleadings.
Shipman, Gozcld, Stephen, Shinn, Heard, Chitty.
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Bliss, Maxwell, Boone, Works, Thompson on Trials,
Elliott's General Practice, Elliott's Appellate Pro-,
cedure, Foster's First Book of Practice.
Evidence.
Jones, Underhill, McKelvey, Greenleaf, Wharton, Reynolds,
Roscoe, Wharton, Starkie, Stephen, Best.
Sales.
Tiffany, Tiedeman, Benjamin.
Insurance.
May, Elliott, Wood, Bliss.
Agency.
Mechem, Evans, Story, Wharton.
Partnership.
Bates, George, Lindley, Parsons, Pollock.
It would be supererogatory to enumerate the subdivisions
or branches of the subjects mentioned. All of them, how-
ever, receive due attention and are fully explained. And it
may be stated that, with a view to enabling students to
obviate the expense of purchasing many books, subjects of
brief compass are taught, as may seem practicable, by means
of lectures, case reading, quizzes, theses and moot court
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME.
133
trials. But should text-books be preferred at any time,
resort may be had to their use.
SENIOR CLASS-THIRD YEAR.
So much of what has been stated with reference to the
preceding classes is applicable also to students of the Senior
year that it will be unnecessary to enlarge on the nature of
their work. A detailed description of it might involve rep-
etition to some extent, and become tedious. Those eligible
to membership are such as have satisfactorily finished the
studies of the first and second years and earned the right to
promotion. However, in compliance with a custom gener-
ally recognized, lawyers in good standing who desire to join
the class, in order to broaden and systematize their knowl-
edge of the law, are also admitted to it. On passing a
satisfactory examination at the end of the year they become,
like other students, entitled to the degree of LL. B. And
the same courtesy is extended to students of good moral
character who have acceptably finished the work of two
years in law schools or law departments of other universities.
The leading subjects of study, together with the names of
the authors of some of the text-books treating of them, are
here presented:
Equity Jurisprudence.
Fetter, Fiedeman, Bispham, Snell, Story, Adams.
Equity Pleadings and Practice*
Shipman, Shinn, t^tory. Ltibe.
International Law*
Glenn, Hall, Story, Vattel, Woolsey, Wheaton, Wharton.
Constitutional Law*
Black, Cooley, Von Holst, Desty, Story, Hamilton, Madison
and Jay in the Federalist.
*34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Private and Municipal Corporations*
Clark, Elliott, Beach, Field, Angell & Ames, Dillon,
Tiedeman, Wild.
Personal Property*
Tiedleman, Darlington, Schouler, Smith, Williams.
Real Property*
Hopkins, Tiedeman, Boone, Washburn, Willard, Williams.
Wills, Executors and Administrators*
Croswell, Redfield, Jarman, O' Hara, Wigram.
Bailments and Common Carriers*
Hale, Hutchinson, Edwards, Schouler, Story.
Negotiable Instruments or Commercial Pape^
Norton, Tiedeman, Daniel, Cholmers.
Suretyship and Guaranty*
Brandt, Bay lies, De Colyar, Pitman.
The subdivisions of the principal subjects indicated in the
preceding list are, of course, included in the general terms
designating these subjects, and it is unnecessary specially to
enumerate them. For example, it would be superfluous to
refer specifically to Arbitration, Demand, Estoppel, Injunc-
tion, Insolvency, Notice, Protest, Assessment, Taxation,
Mandamus, Quo Warranto, Ultra Vires, Recoupment, Set-
off, Counterclaim, and the like, for they are fully considered
and explained in connection with the subjects to which they
relate.
The subjects of study are not necessarily taken, one by
one, in consecutive order, as given in the list. Three or
four of them may engage the attention and demand the
work of the class at the same time. To illustrate: The class
meets for recitation three or four times daily, say once or
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	I35
twice in the forenoon and twice in the afternoon. Inter-
national Law may be chosen for the morning hour, special
work in office business or court practice afterward, Equity
Jurisprudence the first hour in the afternoon and Equity
Pleadings later. Once a subject is chosen for a particular
class, whether first, second or third in the daily routine, it
is continued exclusively in the same class, without break
or interruption, until finished. In the case supposed, Con-
stitutional Law would probably follow International Law in
the morning hour; the special work would still remain such,
though changing in its development; Real Property might
succeed Equity Jurisprudence in the afternoon, and Personal
Property follow in the evening. The students meet twice
a week with those of the Postgraduate course for the special
wrork indicated, which consists in conveyancing, preparation
of pleadings, the manner of taking appeals and office busi-
ness generally. The Senior students are expected to devote
from eighteen to twenty hours a week to class work.
By the system outlined in the foregoing paragraph it is
sought to keep each subject before the mind of the student
until he takes interest in and understands it. Thus it
becomes distinctively and permanently fixed in the mind.
The practice of teaching to the same class one subject one
day, another the next, and still another the day following,
as where non-resident professors, each with a different sub-
ject, follow daily one the other, finds no encouragement at
Notre Dame. Such blending of subjects and intermingling
of principles manifestly tend to confusion of thought and
chaos of subject-matter. It is very difficult in such case to
see and understand the law as a symmetrical whole—a
system majestic and beautiful in its harmonious entirety.
136
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
POSTGRADUATE COURSE—FOURTH YEAR.
Only graduates in law can be admitted to this course.
But these may be from any other university in good stand-
ing, as well as from our own Law Department. A year can
very profitably be given to the work prescribed for gradua-
tion in it. The degree conferred is that of Master of Laws.
The work of this course is eminently practical and of the
greatest possible utility to those who intend to engage in
the practice of law on their own account at an early date,
and not to give two or three years of probation to the
drudgery of a clerkship at small salary in some office.
Bvery year of study greatly increases the interest of the
student in the law and his power to understand it. If bright
and industrious, he ought to be able to do as much effective
work while a Senior as he did during the two preceding
years, and his capacity to learn ought to increase in corre-
sponding ratio in the Postgraduate course. By working
earnestly and devotedly during the year he can review the
studies of the preceding three years and confidently reach
out in other directions to acquire additional knowledge.
The nature of his work and the subjects of his study may be
briefly indicated:
Study of the Statutes and System of Pleadings of his State.
Practice in Taking Depositions.
Frequent Participation in Moot Court Trials.
Argzcments on Motions for New Trials.
Preparation of Bills of Exceptions, Briefs, Records and
Abstracts of Records in Appeals.
The Framing of Arguments for a Rehearing.
Duties of Masters in Chancery, Referees and Arbitrators.
Duties of Assignees and Receivers; also, of Public Officers.
Examination of Abstracts of Title and the Making of Deeds,
Mortgages, Leases * etc.* in Conveyancing.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
137
A Critical Study of Pleading sy with Reference to Forms and
Substance.
furisdiction of the Federal Courts.
The Roman Law.
Comparative Constitiitional Law and furisprudence.
The exercises of the special class, held on Mondays and
Wednesdays, are attended not only by the students of the
Postgraduate course, but also by the Seniors. From a
practical point of view, these exercises are highly important,
and the change in them annually is sufficient to suggest
novelty and make them highly interesting and instructive
to the students of succeeding years, as where Seniors finish
the Postgraduate course. This special work includes the
examination of abstracts of title, practical examples in con-
veyancing, a critical study of the different forms of pleadings
and the general business of a successfully conducted law
office. While even one year of study is admittedly very
helpful, if not actually necessary, yet the benefits and
advantages that accrue from attending a second year cannot
well be overestimated.
THE COMMON LAW
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the law gener-
ally prevailing throughout the Union—the law that obtains
in the States. It addresses itself to almost all the relations
of life. In fact, about nineteen out of every twenty cases
tried in our courts are decided in accordance with its princi-
ples. It is generally uniform in its operation. However,
the statutory enactments of State legislatures overcome and
displace it, so far as they conflict with its provisions. These
enactments differ materially in different States, owing to
unlike conditions and local differences. Thus it is that the
laws of certain States are so radically unlike the laws of
138	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
other States. Of course, there are instances in which statutes
are passed to cover acts and conditions not provided for by
the common law; but in most instances the existing statutes
simply declare, qualify or render inoperative some of its
rules
In view of these facts, thorough instruction is here given
in the common law. Neither lawyers nor judges pretend to
know the statutes of any other State than of that in which
they practice or preside. In fact, a knowledge of the stat-
utes of different States would be more confusing and bewild-
ering than profitable to judges, lawyers and students.
Moreover, they are liable to be radically changed from time
to time by legislative bodies representing diverse political
interests and opinions. In an examination for admission to
the bar in this or any other State, no question is put and
nothing is said relative to the statutes of sister States. In
fact, the States are treated as foreign to one another in law.
There are, however, certain fundamental statutory enact-
ments that exist without material diversity in their scope-
and purpose in almost all the States. Again, other statutes
somewhat less important and fundamental in character exist
in groups of States. Such statutes as these may be profit-
ably studied in class, in connection with the common law;
but it would be worse than useless for a student to attempt
to investigate and study the mazes of statutory differences
in the several States. Hence, it is suggested as advisable
for each Senior or Postgraduate student to procure and have
with him for independent study when he comes in Septem-
ber a copy of the revised statutes of his State or of the State
in which he intends to practice.
GRADUATES
of the Law Department have met with exceptional success,
it has been noted, in passing examinations for admission to
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
139
the bar. Nevertheless, it may be in point to state that it
ought hereafter to be comparatively easy for them to meet
the requirements of the most rigorous tests in that line, in
view of the increase in the number of daily classes and the
lengthening of the period of instruction. By way of show-
ing the full accord and co-operation of the Faculty in that
regard with the bench and bar of the country, attention
may be drawn to the following authoritative expression on
the subject, which is embodied in a resolution passed by the
American Bar Association in 1897:
“Resolved, That the American Bar Association approves the
lengthening of the course of instruction in law schools to a period of
three years, and that it expresses the hope that as soon as practicable
a rule may be adopted in each State, which will require candidates
for admission to the bar to study law for three years before applying
for admission.”
It would certainly be disappointing now to meet a gradu-
ate timid at the prospect of an examination. With the
right spirit and proper training, he ought to face it cheerfully
and unhesitatingly. However, the Supreme Court of
Indiana has adopted a rule providing for the admission of
graduates of this Department on motion, or without exami-
nation. Under this rule they may, being voters, present
themselves before the Judges of the Court, exhibit their
diplomas, and, on motion of some attorney, followed by the
administration to them -of the oath of office, be admitted by
proper order to the bar, receiving the certificates of licensed
attorneys, and having their names inscribed on the ‘ ‘ roll of
honor” of the Court. This contains the names of those
who furnish evidence of having satisfactorily finished the
study of law before applying for admission to the bar.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings regularly on Saturday evenings. All
students of the Department are members of it. They are
140
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
required, each in his turn, to participate in its debates and
other exercises The debates commonly deal with questions
germane to the law. However, subjects of history, political
economy, and the like, are also in favor. An excellent
opportunity is afforded at the meetings of the society to
develop skill, power and fluency in public speaking. The
graces of the elocutionist and the persuasive power of the
orator may here be cultivated and strengthened. All can
increase in force and fluency of thought and expression by
attending regularly and participating in the exercises of this
society. Officers are elected twice yearly by the students
themselves. They select also a competent critic to note the
mistakes made in pronunciation or otherwise by the speak-
ers at each meeting, and to read a carefully prepared paper
correcting the same the following Saturday evening. A
Professor presides at the meetings, aids the members by his
counsel and suggestions, and decides the questions under
discussion on the merits of the arguments.
THE LAW LIBRARY
adjoins and communicates directly with the Eecture Room,
in Sorin Hall. Students have uninterrupted access to it at
all reasonable hours. They may frequent it as often as they
choose for the purpose of studying cases, preparing for
moot court trials, securing authorities. for the monthly
theses, referring to the cases cited in the text-books and
lectures, or reading the standard treatises. Every decision
rendered for many years by the State, Territorial and Federal
courts may here be found. Consequently, not to repeat
other reasons already stated, students are not required to
purchase as many law books as they are obliged to have in
other places. The books in the Library may be used by the
law students in common as freely as can reasonably be
wished, and without charge. The same is true relative to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-	141
the vast general collection of books in the Lemonnier
Library. Law books may be taken from the Library to the
Lecture Room for use in moot court trials, but they must
afterward be returned. All students have an equal right to
use them, being, as it were, tenants in common in that
regard; but any disposition to invade the common right,
whether through selfishness or thoughtlessness, by attempt-
ing to make exclusive use of them, as in placing them under
cover in desks or taking them to private rooms, must be
vigilantly guarded against and impartially discountenanced.
Students have an undoubted right to expect that when they
need any particular book they will find it in the Library,
and not be compelled to lose valuable time in making
inquiry for it elsewhere.
No discrimination is made between law students and
students of the regular collegiate courses in the matter of
EXPENSES.
The fee for tuition, board, lodging, washing, mending,
etc., is fixed at J300 for the scholastic year. This covers
all real necessaries, and, considering the excellent accommo-
dations at Notre Dame, is believed to be very reasonable.
It is said that students elsewhere must pay from $400 to
$500 a year for like services and accommodations. The '
cost of books annually may be estimated approximately at
$30. Students have but little occasion or opportunity to
spend money or to cultivate expensive habits; for they study,
board and lodge at the University, in an atmosphere favor-
able to earnest work, and quite apart from the associations
and temptations incident to city life. Terms of payment
and other pertinent information may be found under the
general caption “ Expenses,” on page 24. It may, perhaps,
be well to anticipate possible inquiries by stating that no
142
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
additional charge is made for attending or becoming students
of classes in the collegiate courses.
DISCIPLINE.
The law students, as well as all others, are expected to
be earnest and industrious in the performance of the duties
devolving upon them, and to secure this end and the fullest
practicable utilization of time the same rules of’ discipline
apply to all the students. These rules require regularity
in class attendance, uprightness in conduct and manliness in
deportment. Obedience to them tends to strengthen char-
acter, establish wholesome habits and nourish in heart and
mind the qualities that mark the true gentleman and earnest
scholar, the honored citizen and successful lawyer, the
independent thinker and firm believer in the illimitable
possibilities of industry, perseverance and self-reliance.
9
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
143
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
This Course can be completed in two years. It includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United
States history, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-
keeping, Commercial Taw—in other words, all the branches
of a complete business education.
When the character and needs of the country are con-
sidered, this Course will appear the most practical, and one
of the most important that an educational institution can
afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to take
a complete college course in the Classics and Sciences,
would do well to enroll themselves in the Commercial
Course. No plan of study is more injudicious than a hap-
hazard selection of such studies as an inexperienced young
man may fancy. The training resulting from a fixed course
of studies is of the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always
received the most careful attention from the officers and the
Commercial Faculty of the University. Notre Dame claims
to give the graduates of this Course a more complete business
training than can be obtained in any purely commercial
college. Believing that a business education includes some-
thing more than a mere knowledge of book-keeping, and
that a good education cannot be obtained in a few weeks,
the authorities have extended this Course over two years—-
the shortest time in which studies necessarily used in busi-
ness life can be mastered. Should a pupil desire during
this period to pursue any other studies in which he may be
144
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
interested, and for which he has time, he will have liberty
to do so.
General History and Linear Drawing are especially
recommended to commercial students. They also have an
opportunity of attending an elementary course of the Physi-
cal and Natural Sciences. Many commercial students find
it also to their advantage to keep up the study of German or
French, for which there are the amplest facilities. A tal-
ented and studious young man may thus in the course of
two years find himself in the possession of a most valuable
practical education, which will fit him to take his place in
the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR*
FIRST TERM.
I* Arithmetic—Written and Mental—To Decimal Frac-
tions (exclusive). Normal Union Arithmetic, Brooks.
2* Grammar—To Irregular Verbs (inclusive). Revised
Bnglish Grammar.
3. Letter Writing*
4* Reading and Orthography*
5. Geography—General Geography of the World;
Special Geography of the United States.
6* United States History—Through the French and
Indian War.
7 Penmanship*
SECOND TERM.
I* Arithmetic—Decimal Fractions; Denominate Num-
bers; Practical Measurements. Normal Union Arithmetic,
Brooks.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME-
145
2.	Grammar—From Irregular Verbs to Syntax. Revised
English Grammar.
3.	Letter Writing.
4.	Reading and Orthography*
5* Geography—Special Geography of South America,
Europe, Asia, and Africa.
6.	United States History—From the French and Indian
War to the present time.
7* Penmanship*
SENIOR YEAR*
FIRST TERM*
I* Arithmetic—Percentage; Ratio and Proportion; as far
as Involution and Evolution. Normal Union Arithmetic,
Brooks.
2* Bookkeeping—Preparatory instruction and definitions;
Initiatory Sets by Double Entry; Retailing by Double Entry;
special practice in writing Business Paper and Business
Forms. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and Rogers.
3* Grammar—Syntax. Revised English Grammar.
4* Letter Writing*
5* Reading and Orthography*
6* Penmanship*
SECOND TERM.
1* Arithmetic—Percentage, Ratio and Proportion (re-
viewed) ; Involution and Evolution; Arithmetical and
Geometrical Series; Higher Percentage ; Mensuration ;
Arithmetical Analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks.
146
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
2* Bookkeeping;—Single Entry; changing Single to
Double Entry; Retailing; Wholesaling; Shipping and Com-
mission; Jobbing; Manufacturing; Installment and State
Agencies; Joint Stock Companies; Banking; Railroading;
Steamboating; Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting,
Discounting, Accepting, and Paying Bills of Exchange.
New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and Rogers.
3* Composition—Study of the Theory of English Com-
position; frequent exercise in Essay and Letter Writing,
etc. The Eoundations of Rhetoric, Hill.
4* Orthography*
5* Commercial Law—General principles of Contracts;
Agency; Partnership; Corporations; Guaranty; Sale of
Goods; Negotiable Paper. Clark.
6. Penmanship*
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
147
PREPARATORY SCHOOL.
FIRST YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
Latin—Latin Grammar, Etymology, Bennett. First Book
in Latin, Tuell and Fowler. Viri Romas.
English—Grammar; Etymology; Themes.
History—United States History to the end of the Revolu-
tionary War.
Geography—General Geography of the World. Special
Geography of the United States.
Mathematics—Arithmetic, Fractions.
Military Drill—One hour a week throughout the year.
SECOND TERM.
Latin—Continuation of First Term work.
English—(«) Grammar: Etymology continued. (ff
Readings in Class: Longfellow’s Tales of a Way side Inn;
Stevenson’s Treasure Island; Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe,
(c) Themes : Subject matter taken from Longfellow’s Tales
of a Way side Inn; Original Composition. The dictionary
required throughout the Preparatory Courses is the Standard
English Dictionary (Student’s Edition).
History—United States History, from the Revolutionary
War to the present time.
Geography—Special Political Geography of Europe, Asia
and Africa, with outlines of the Physical Geography.
148
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Mathematics—Arithmetic, from Fractions to Compound
Numbers.
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
Latin—Grammar; Etymology reviewed and general rules
of Syntax. Bennett. Caesar; Gallic War, Books I. and
II.; Composition—based on the text of Csesar.
Greek—Grammar, Goodwin's, from the beginning to the
Verb. Exercises, Beginner's Greek Book, White. (For
Classical Students only.)
English—(a) Grammar: Syntax, Revised English Gram-
mar. (Q Readings in class: Scott’s The Lady of the Lake}
Longfellow’s Evangeline; Irving’s Sketch Book; Newman’s
Callista. Themes: subject matter taken from the books read
in class; Original Composition.
Mathematics—Arithmetic, from Compound Numbers to
Percentage.
French and German begun by candidates for Engineer-
ing and Scientific Courses. (See entrance requirements of
these Courses.)
SECOND TERM.
Latin—Csesar, Gallic War, Books III. and IV.; Compo-
sition, based on Caesar's text; Grammar, Syntax finished,
Bennett.
Greek—Grammar, review and to Verbs in ; Exercises,
Beginner's Greek Book, White; Gospel of St. Luke;
Selections.	.
English—Work of the First Term continued.
UNIVERSITY ON NOTRE DAME.
149
Mathematics—Arithmetic, from Percentage and Invo-
lution.
Algebra—This Course is designed for beginners in
Algebra, and comprises a complete study of the primarye
operations and fundamental principles of the science;
thorough drill work in Composition and Factoring; Highest
Common Factor and Lowest Common Multiple. When
competency is assured in these subjects, the principles of
Fractions are considered; also exercises in reduction of
Complex Fractions.
THIRD YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
Latin—Sallust; Catiline; Composition based on text of
Sallust; Grammar, review, Bennett; Ovid; Metamorphoses.
Greek—Grammar, Goodwin's from verbs in to Syntax,
and review. Gate to the Anabasis, Gleason. Prose Com-
position, based on the text of the Anabasis.
English—Rhetoric, Hills’ Foundations of Rhetoric', Hist-
ory of American Literature, Painter’s Introduction to Amer-
ican Literature’, Themes, application of Rhetoric; Readings
in Class: Tennyson’s Princess, Professor Cook’s text; Mil-
ton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II.; L' Allegro, Il Penscr-
oso, Lycidas.
Algebra—This Course begins with a study of the Equa-
tion and Methods of Transformation and solution of Simple
Equations; solution of problems of one and two unknown
quantities; Fractional Equations; Simultaneous Equations
of the first degree, and solution of problems of two or more
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
150
unknown quantities. Then are considered elementary cases
of Indeterminate Problems, discussion of Problems and
Inequalities; principles of Involution and Evolution, and
theory of Exponents; Radical and Imaginary Expressions;
• Quadratic Surds; Radical Equations and Solution of
Problems.
Geometry, Plane—The whole subject of Plane Geometry
as given in Wentworth’s New Plane and Solid Geometry.
The solution of original problems and theorems constitute
the greater part of the Course. The student’s proficiency
is determined by examinations in which he is required to
devise proofs of original and independent propositions.
(a)	Elementary Chemistry—An Introductory Course of
experimental lectures on familiar substances such as water,
the air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena of
Chemistry. Reference-book, Remsen.
(b)	Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course a. A series of exercises to be performed
by each student, and having as their main object the culti-
vation of the student’s powers of observation and faculty of
inductive reasoning. These exercises comprise a study of
the principal metallic elements, including their preparation,
properties, and more familiar compounds. The directions
for each experiment are made as brief as possible, the obser-
vation of facts and the drawing of correct conclusions there-
from being left, so far as the nature of the experiment will
permit, to the pupil.
Physics, Elementary—A complete Course of recitations
and lectures, including Mechanics, Heat, Sound, Light,
Electricity and Magnetism. The work is fully illustrated
by experiments.
4»
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	15*
Physiology—Elementary. (For all except Classical
students.)
Botany—Elementary. (For Civil Engineering Students.)
SECOND TERM.
Latin—Cicero, Catilinaria; Composition based on Cicero’s
text; Virgil, Eclogues or Georgies; Prosody; Scansion of
Hexameter Verse.
Greek—Grammar: General Rules of Syntax; Xenophon,
Anabasis entire; Composition, based on the text of the
Anabasis.
English—Continuation of the First Term work.
Algebra—This Course begins with a review of Radicals.
Then follows a study of Pure and Affected Quadratic Equa-
tions and Simultaneous Quadratics; solution of problems
involving Quadratics; Arithmetical and Geometrical Pro-
gressions; discussions of Simple Indeterminate Equations
and exercises. Solution of problems is rigidly enforced and
numerous original exercises are added to supplement the
work.
Geometry, Solid—Theorems pertaining to Planes and
Polyhedral Angles, Polyhedrons, the Cylinder, Cone and
Sphere. The study of Spherical Angles, Spherical Surfaces,
the Measure of Spherical Surfaces, receive all the attention
necessary to familiarize the student with this important and
practical part of Geometry. Solution of original exercises,
proofs of independent propositions and examinations.
History—Modern. (For Scientific Students.)
Zoology—Elementary. (For Civil Engineering Students.)
Minim Department.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
153
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
For the care and training of boys under the age of thir-
teen years, there has been established a department to which
the most scrupulous attention has always been paid by the
college authorities; it is known as the ’Minim Department,
and it has always been one of the greatest objects of interest
to the Faculty as well as to all persons visiting Notre Dame.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the ele-
mentary branches of an Bnglish education is here imparted,
together with a rudimentary knowledge of Isatin, French
and German. Vocal Music and Drawing form no extra
charge. The pupils of this department are taught by Sisters
of the Holy Cross, under whose maternal care they pass
nearly the entire day.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day: Rising at 6:40 a.
m., toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short
time given for exercises on the campus; half-past seven,
study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, study; a quarter to
twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-
past one, study; half-past three, recreation and luncheon;
half-past six, supper and recreation; half-past eight, retiring.
From this it may be seen that while the Minims devote less
than six hours a day to study, they are never more than two
hours in succession in the class-room. The recreation and
exercise in the fresh air between each two hours of study,
unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to their
classes refreshed and ready for work.
154
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Minims are always under supervision, during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and study-
hall. The presence, however, of the Prefect is far from
being a restraint on the amusement of the boys; for while it
is the duty of the Prefects to insist that their young charges
shall always keep within the limits of the strictest propriety,
they, at the same time, take part in all sports, organize
games, and do everything in their power to foster the love
of exercises. The play-ground is a broad, level, five-
acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings, ladders,
rings, parallel-bars, and all other necessary gymnastic appar-
atus. That the boys make good use of them can be seen
from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably
attracts the notice of visitors. Connected with the play-
ground is a brick play-hall, 160 feet long and heated by
steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the
clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and con-
venience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few days.
Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care is taken
that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the clothing be
suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES.
There are two societies in the Minim department; that of
the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its
object to supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin
Association, which has been established with a view to give
the pupils a start, as early as possible, in elocution. The
society is presided over by one of the professors, who find it
a pleasant duty to draw out the talent of these interesting
young orators. Meetings are held once a week, after school
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well as
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
155
of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only the
best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to
membership. To encourage this young Literary Society, a
Gold Medal is annually awarded at Commencement for
Elocution to the most deserving member.
GENERAL REMARKS.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is much
milder than that which is suited to students more advanced
in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punishment.
Those in charge endeavor to govern by kindness and gentle-
ness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense of honor. The
names of all whose conduct and application to studies are sat-
isfactory appear under the heads of Roll of Honor and Class
Honors in the Scholastic, a journal published weekly at Notre
Dame. To find his name mentioned in these rolls, is found
to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil, as its non-
appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, too, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to those whose deportment has been unex-
ceptionable during that period. As this fact is made known,
to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he generally
endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to receiving an
“Honor.” The greatest care is taken to form their young
hearts to habits of virtue, and to inculcate the practice of
refined manners. Every effort is made to foster respect and
affection for parents, to whom they are expected to write at
least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims is
their complete separation from the larger students. An
elegant and commodious building, known as St. Edward’s
Hall, affording ample accommodations for over one hundred
156	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
pupils, is devoted to their use. It is four stories in height,
one hundred and fifty feet long, and forty-five feet wide;
heated by steam, supplied throughout with the Edison
incandescent electric light, and provided with hot and cold
water. The ceilings in the Study-Hall, Class-Rooms and
sleeping apartment are fifteen feet high. The windows
are large and numerous, affording abundant light and venti-
lation. The Study-Hall commands a charming view from
each of its eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated
with statuary, pictures, plants, etc. Beside the pleasure
the Minims derive from studying in this bright, cheerful
hall, their tastes are cultured by coming in contact with
objects so refining. Fronting the building is a handsome
park, which, with its fountains, rare trees and flowers,
adds not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as
well as to the happiness of its inmates.	.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents
and others who frequently write for more detailed informa-
tion, will show that, while the Minims have every possible
advantage to aid them in acquiring a good, solid education,
they have a most happy home, where they enjoy the same
ease and freedom that they would enjoy under the care of
their mothers.
UNIVERSITY ON NOTRE DAME.
157
EXPENSES.
Matriculation. Fee (payable on first entrance) f *	$ 10*00
Board, Tuition, etc*, per session of ten months, *	* 250.00
$
The above rates are payable in advance as follows:
On entrance in September, .	$.50.00
January \5tht •	.	♦	• .	100*00
EXTRAS OPTIONAL.
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons,
and the use of instrument in this department is $25.00; for
Violin, Guitar or Mandolin, $ 15.00.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40*00*
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Bach pupil, on entering this department, should have six
shirts, four pairs of drawers, four night shirts, twelve pocket
handkerchiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats
or caps, two pairs of shoes, two suits of clothes for winter,
two suits for summer, one overcoat, toilet articles, etc. This
direction concerning clothing is a suggestion, not a regulation.
158
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS
From September} 1897, to June, 1898.
In this list are not included the names of those students
who were dismissed or withdrawn at the request of the
College authorities during the scholastic year.
Adams, William J.......................
Armijo, Pedro J........................
Atherton, Chester II...................
Arce, Julius A.........................
Armijo, Ricardo M......................
Abrahams, Louis L......................
Montana...........
New Mexico.......
Illinois..........
Peru, S. A........
New Mexico........
Illinois..........
Arnold, Charles W. .
Abercrombie, John J
Adelsperger, Bernard
......................Indiana..........
.....................Illinois..........
......................Indiana..........
Barry, Henry P. ..
Bohner, George H
Bouza, Francis B..
Bouza, John J....
Baab, Charles J.. ..
Burg, Gregor N....
Berry, William A..
Buren, J. Brnest..
Bauwens, Francis S.
Baloun, Joseph A.. ..
Burke, John C......
Burns, Thomas D. ...
Barry, Robert B....
Bourns, Millard T.. -.
Bommersbach, Albert
Blish, Henry D.....
Boyle, Bdward R....
Beechinor, Robert D.
• Iowa................
. Illinois.....
. South Dakota....
• South Dakota.. ..
. Pennsylvania . .. .
• Iowa.........
.Missouri......
. Missouri.....
.Kentucky......
. Indiana......
• Ohio.........
.Illinois......
•New Mexico....
. Illinois.....
.Michigan......
.Illinois..............
• Michigan.......
.Pennsylvania ....
.New York........
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
159
Brown, Bdward C........................
Brucker, Stephen J.....................
Byrne, John M..........................
Bloch, Herbert.........................
Iowa............
Wiscons'n.......
Illinois........
Ohio............
Illinois.........
Michigan.........
Ohio.............
Benson, Alvarado F.......................
Britt, Henry A...........................
Brown, Ferdinand F. B....................
Brann, Arthur D.........................Texas...........
Michigan.......
Ohio...........
Ohio...........
Indiana........
New York.......
Missouri.......
Barrett, Glenn W..........................
Beardslee, Louis B........................
Beardslee, George C.......................
Bligh, Michael F..........................
Bellinger, William W. J...................
Brice, William C..........................
Brown, Henry B........
Burch, Thaddeus.......
Becker, Alphonse IM..
Berger, Bimer J.......
Buck, Gordon H........
Brown, Henry J........
Butler, Thomas J. ...
Butler, William J ...
Bernero, John C.......
Blume, August.........
Blanchfield, Walt r J.
Bosworth, Alva C....
Benson, Charles A....
Bortell, Paulus T.....
Bortell, Charles B • - • •
Brogan, Anthony A. .
Baldwin, William ....
Brand, William Leslie
Breslin, Francis D....
Barthel, George A....
Buse, Bdward L........
Burke, John...........
.. Ohio..........
.. Indiana....
.. Minnesota.....
.. Indiana....
.. Pennsylvania ....
.. Illinois...
.. Ohio.......
.. Ohio.......
.. Illinois...
.. Michigan...
.. Illinois...
.. Illinois...
.. Rhode Island....
. .Illinois...
.. Illinois...
.. Indiana....
.. Illinois....
.. Indiana.......
.. Pennsylvania ....
. .New York......
.. Ohio..........
. .Michigan......
Callahan, Bdward J......................
Corby, Clarence K.......................
Crowley, Jerome J.......................
Cavanagh, John J........................
Nebraska.........
Missouri.........
Illinois.........
Ohio.............
i6o
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Tennessee........
Ontario, Canada..
Iowa.............
Pennsylvania . . ..
Kansas...........
Ohio.............
Massachusetts.. .
Illinois........
Missouri.........
Wisconsin......
Missouri.........
Illinois.........
New York.........
Pennsylvania ...
Illinois.........
Illinois.........
Massachussetts . .
Iowa.............
Condon, Michael J.......................
Crunican, Austin J......................
Conway, James M.........................
Cypher, George A........................
Crawford, A. Roy........................
Crumley, Harry V........................
Collins, Daniel B.......................
Campbell, James H.......................
Campbell, Bugene........................
Carney, Alex R..........................
Corby, Joseph B.........................
Corcoran, Patrick J.....................
Cornell, Brands B.......................
Confer, Francis J. F....................
Carney, Otis P..........................
Caruthers, John P.......................
Curry, Joseph P.........................
Clement, Adelbert W.....................
Clyne, Joseph A...
Crowley, Michael J
Condon, Thomas P
Curtis, Patrick A..
Coquillard, Alexis.. -
Coquillard, Joseph A
Cowie, Gordon R....
Kansas ...
Illinois ...
Tennessee
Illinois ...
Indiana...
Indiana.. .
Wisconsin
Illinois...........
Ohio..............
Illinois...........
Caruthers, Francis J.......................
Casparis, Kenneth B........................
Clark, Robert..............................
Cressey, Clement G..........................Indiana..........
Cunnea, John J......................
. Illinois...........
Connecticut.....
Indiana.........
New Jersey......
Missouri........
Mis-ouri........
Indiana.........
Ireland.........
Ohio............
Idaho...........
Colbert, John M............................
Clifford, Jeremiah.........................
Carlton, Joseph R..........................
Corley, John D.............................
Corley, Bmmett T...........................
Crepeau, Med W.............................
Cullinan, Joseph...........................
Coyne, Claude A............................
Crowley, Timothy I.........................
Dominguez, Rafael
Mexico
university oe notre dame.
Indiana..
Illinois.
Indiana..
Illinois.
Illinois.
Minnesota........
Indiana..
Illinois.
Minnesota........
Louisiana........
Illinois.
Pennsylvania ....
Arkansas.........
New Jersey.......
Michigan.........
Iowa..
Massachussets....
Massachusetts....
Pennsylvania.....
South Dakota. —
Pennsylvania....
Illinois.........
Michigan.........
Illinois.
Pennsylvania ....
Michigan.........
Texas....
Illinois.
Indiana..
Illinois.........
Disk of Columbia.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Georgia..........
Illinois.
Illinois.
Indiana..
Indiana..
Ohio.............
Indiana..
Dalton, William D.......................
Donahoe, Mathew J...................... .
Drej er, Stanislaus P...................
Dooley, Thomas J........................
Delaney, James M........................
Donovan, John C.........................
Dwyer, Vincent D........................
Devine, Mark A.......■..................
Dillon, Thomas J........................
Duperier, Alfred J......................
Darst, EddensJ..........................
Dellone, Francis X......................
Davies, Boaz C..........................
Daly, Michael T.........................
Dillon, John A..........................
Desmond, William J......................
Dwyer, Thomas F.........................
Doherty, Philip J.......................
Diskin, Patrick.........................
Daly, John F............................
Delaney, Eugene A.......................
Dowd, John J............................
Dreher, Francis P.......................
Duane, Joseph F.........................
Duffy, Peter E- •. •....................
Dukette, Francis F......................
Davidson, Alfred H......................
Dinan, James P..........................
Dinnen, William F........................
Dousett, George F.......................
Dougherty, Philip F. H..................
Duggan, James J.........................
Day, Francis M..........................
Dyer, Grant C...........................
Downer, Henry O.........................
Dessauer, Walter J. P...................
Donahoe, Henry..........................
Davis, Grover C.........................
Dwyer, Francis J........................
Dildine, Clifford P....................
Dorian, Francis P.......................
l62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Donahue, John........
Doran, Charles.....
DeLorimier, Arthur G
Dwan, Patrick J....
DeWulf, Emil P.....
Darron Andrew A....
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Illinois........
Kentucky........
Indiana.........
Davis, Ernest R
Indiana.........
DuGuay, Frederick A. J
Pennsylvania ....
Ensign, Charles F......................New York..
Ellison, Joseph E......................Indiana.....
Eggeman, John W........................Indiana.....
Eyanson, John N........................Indiana.....
Edgarton, Allan J......................Illinois....
Ellwanger, Ralph J.................... Iowa............
Elliott, Edwin E......................Wisconsin........
Elitch, Charles J..
Ernst, Emile J....
Ervin, John B.......
Ebbert, Francis W
Ebbert, George H.
California........
Ohio..............
Indiana...........
Illinois..........
Illinois..........
Fitzwilliam, Eawrence S..................
Fetherston, Donis M......................
Farragher, John..........................
Farley, John F...........................
Foster, Henry P..........................
Fleming, Charles F.......................
Fadely, Dew E............................
Funk, Robert S...........................
Flannigan, Charles P.....................
Fischer, Joseph B........................
Flannigan, Michael J.....................
Furry, William D.........................
Fogarty, James P.........................
Friend, Charles W.........................
Falvey, Edward B.........................
Fehr, Andrew F ..........................
Fennessey, John F........................
Foulks, Charles M........................
Fitzpatrick, William W...................
California......
Iowa..
Ohio............
New Jersey......
Illinois........
Kentucky........
Indiana.........
Wisconsin.......
Minnesota.......
Illinois........
Minnesota.......
Indiana.........
Pennsylvania....
Arkansas........
Missouri........
Kentucky........
Massachusetts.. .
Kansas..........
Texas...........
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
163
Flynn, John P............................
Follen, Peter B..........................
Poley, Charles B.........................
Fox, Robert B............................
Fink, Henry S............................
Furlong, James H.........................
Ferstl, William J........................
Frank, LeRoy A...........................
Friedman, Arthur C.......................
Fleming, Henry J.........................
Flinn, Fabian J..........................
Flynn, Arthur A..........................
Frain, Francis J.........................
Fleischer, Oscar F.......................
Fleming, Shirley J.......................
Flynn, Miles B...........................
Flynn, Milton J..........................
Fuchs, Albert............................
Fuchs, Carl..............................
Fogarty, John H..........................
Fogarty, Fred J..........................
Frost, W. Barrett........................
Fenton, James............................
Mexico.........’
Indiana..........
Illinois.........
Indiana..........
Maryland.........
Illinois.........
Indiana..........
Illinois.........
Illinois.........
Kentucky.........
New York.........
Mexico...........
Indiana..........
Illinois.........
Ohio.............
Mexico...........
Mexico...........
Illinois.........
Illinois.........
Indiana..........
Indiana..........
Missouri.........
Indiana..........
Guerra, Bnrique 1/..
Glynn, Hugh J......
Glasheen, William P
Mexico...........
Pennsylvania.....
Illinois.........
Graham, Thomas J............................Montana..
Guilfoyle, William A........................Illinois....
Gainer, Bdward J............................Illinois....
Garza, Rodolfa M............................Mexico.. .
Garza, Carlos...............................Texas ....
Gordon, Charles J...........................Illinois ...
Gibson, Norwood R...........................Illinois ...
Gilbert, Bdward J...........................Illinois .. .
Geoghegan, Walter M.........................New York
Grady, William P............................Illinois ...
Girsch, Charles N...........................Illinois .. .
Gibbons, Arthur M. J........................Ohio.......
Garrity, Teo J..............................Illinois .. .
Garrity, McNellis L.........................Illinois...
164
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
• Graham, Percy C.....
Green, Erie J.........................
Griffith, Rinn J......................
Guilbault, Mason E....................
Goodall, Harvey L.....................
Guiff, Paul J.........................
Gallagher, Hugh S.....................
Gorski, Marcellinus K.................
Illinois.........
Michigan.........
Illinois.........
Colorado.........
Illinois.........
Indiana..........
Nebraska.........
Illinois.........
Hoover, Henry H
Illinois............
Herbert, Martin B.......................Illinois..........
Harrington, Timothy C
Hubbard, Edward W...
Healy, Waldo W.......
Heinemann, John H...
Hagerty, John P......
Hanley, Michael C....
Hunter, Samuel L.....
Hunter, Shapley R.. ..
Hunter, David R......
.. Indiana...
. .New York
.. Illinois.. .
.. Illinois.. .
.. Indiana...
.. Indiana...
. - Missouri..
. . Missouri..
. .Missouri..
Missouri........
Ohio............
Pennsylvania ....
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Hunter, Clay H.......................
Hayes, Arthur T .....................
Howell, John E.......................
Hoban, Thomas M......................
Herrmann, William A..................
Texas...........
Iowa............
Iowa............
Illinois........
Pennsylvania ....
Ohio............
Henry, Harvey E.........................
Hesse, John C...........................
Heffelfinger, Miles A...................
Hennebry, John E........................
Hering, Clarence........................
Hayes, John E...........................
Indiana..........
Pennsylvania .. ..
Mexico...........
Pennsylvania ....
Iowa.............
Ohio.............
Cuba.............
Illinois.........
Massachusetts.. -.
Illinois.........
Haley, Joseph M.......................
Hanhouser, George J...................
Hay, Edward E.........................
Hering, Erancis E.....................
Hesse, Erancis H......................
Hanner, John C........................
Hinze, Carlos.........................
Hickey, William R.....................
Higgins, William P....................
Hogan, Nicholas J.....................
jnivrrsity OR notrr dame.
165
Holmes, George W.........................Nebraska.
Hunter, Albert B.........................Missouri. .
Hoban, Maurice J.....................  Indiana.. .
Hubbell, Lorenzo.......................Arizona.. .
Huleatt, Hugh W. P.......................Illinois ...
Houser, Benjamin H......................Indiana...
Hinsey, John A...........................Wisconsin
Hart, Jeremiah................?..........New York
Hart, Law ence A........................Indiana...
Hall, Wallace W..........................Illinois ...
Hartzer, John O.......................... .Indiana...
Hiss, John C............................Indiana...
Heiser, Leo E............................Indiana. . .
Hennessey, Joseph I......................New York
Henne'ssey, John J.....................New York.........
Henohan, Vincent P.....................Rhode Island ...
Jennings, Asher M.........................
Jackson, Edward B.........................
Jackson, Sylvester L......................
Jewell, Pierce E..........................
Johnson, J. Gillespie.....................
Jaworski, Leonard.........................
Joyce, James J............................
Juretich, Joseph L........................
Jackson, Thomas C.........................
Jackson, George W.........................
Jonquet, Maurice A........................
Jones, Vitus G............................
Jones, Rufus P............................
Indiana..........
Indiana..
Indiana..
Indiana..........
Georgia..
Indiana..
Indiana..
Illinois.
Colorado.
Colorado..
Indiana..
Michigan..
Michigan..
Illinois.........
Georgia..........
Indiana...... ...
Washington.......
Illinois.........
Illinois.........
Illinois.........
Wisconsin........
Indiana..........
Georgia..........
Kellner, George W........................
Kehoe, James J...........................
Klein, Alfred A..........................
Kuppler, George W........................
Koehler, John E..........................
Kasper, Adam J...........................
Kangley, John A..........................
Kessler, Henry C.........................
Kiley, George P..........................
Kelly, Edward A..........................
i66
university or notre dame.
Keith, Charles F........................
Kaul, Francis A.........................
Kennedy, Thomas S.......................
Kramer, Leo J...........................
Kilgallen, Tracy M......................
Kegler, William C.......................
Kearney, Peter E........................
Kraus, Jacob W..........................
Kuntz, Peter M..........................
Kuntz, John J...........................
Kasper, Fred J..........................
Kasper, Robert A........................
Kirkland, Charles W.....................
Kasper, George W........................
Kelly, Leo J............................
Kelly, Charles J........................
Kellner, Walter A.......................
Kellner, Otto R.........................
Krug, Albert L..........................
Kirwan, John............................
Kachur, Albert..........................
Kelly, James J..........................
Kelly, John R...........................
Utah..
Pennsylvania ....
Michigan........
Indiana.........
Illinois........
Iowa ...........
Illinois........
Pennsylvania ....
Ohio..
Ohio..
Illinois........
Illinois........
Iowa..
Illinois........
Kansas..........
Illinois........
Illinois........
Illinois........
Ohio..
Illinois........
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Lins, George J............................Illinois..........
Littig, Edward C......................•	■ • .Iowa..........
Lampert, John M...........................Ohio..............
Longan, Fred W............................Illinois..........
Leib, Clarence C..........................Indiana...........
Landers, John D...........................Wisconsin.........
Luken, Laurence H.........................Indiana...........
Illinois...........
Indiana...........
Illinois..........
Illinois..........
Iowa..............
Texas.............
Indiana............
Illinois...........
Ohio...............
Rhode Island....
Land, William B........................
Leach, George W........................
Leffingwell, Charles W.................
Leclerque, Robert E....................
Leisander, George......................
Lawton, Jasper H.......................
Lockwood, Elmer R......................
Lynch, Robert E........................
Long, Edward J.........................
Lavin, Walter H........................
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
167
Pennsylvania ....
Colorado...
Michigan...
Indiana....
Massachusetts....
Iowa.......
Mexico.....
Illinois...
New York.........
Kentucky...
Kentucky...
Iowa.......
Illinois...
Ohio.......
Texas — .........
Pennsylvania — .
Illinois...
West Virginia....
California.
Minnesota........
Iowa.......
Illinois...
California.
Missouri...
Missouri...
Illinois...
Illinois...
Iowa.......
Ohio.......
Ohio.......
Montana....
Montana....
Illinois...
Illinois...
Michigan...
Kentucky...
New York.........
Illinois...
Illinois...
Illinois...
Michigan...
Merz, Arthur W.........................
Metcalf, Bradley B.....................
Mulcrone, Charles J....................
Moorhead, Herbert J....................
Murray, Joseph J.......................
Morrison, Don D........................
Morales, Martin........................
Mulligan, Joseph B.....................
Murphy, Thomas J.......................
Magruder, Albert S. J..................
Medley, Thomas A.......................
Meyers, Dorrance D.....................
Meyers, John R.........................
Miller, John W.........................
Miller, William R...:..................
Mingey, Bdward J.......................
Monahan, William P.....................
Morris, William T......................
Mott, Ygnacio D........................
Mullen, John I.........................
Murphy, Bimer J........................
Murphy, James B........................
Murphy, William S......................
Mulcare, Thomas B......................
Mulcare, Joseph B......................
Michels, Nicholas H....................
Moxley, George T.......................
Morgan, James B........................
Morris, John C.........................
Mooney, Brancis T......................
Mueller, Walter P......................
Mueller, Arthur H......................
Murray, Roy A..... ....................
Maher, William H. N....................
Morrissey, John B......................
Meagher, Douis.........................
Murray, Thomas J.......................
Manion, Bdward D.......................
Manion, Percy J........................
Manion, William B......................
Malone, William H......................
i68
university ok notre dame
Maloy, Francis.......................
Maloy, Bernard.......................
Meighan, John........................
Mnrphy, Timothy K....................
Marr, George J.......................
Moynihan, Patrick B..................
Indiana. .......
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Michigan........
Colorado........
Georgia.........
McKinney, James B....................
McKenzie, John H.....................
McCallen, Brancis C..................
McNichols, Brancis J.................
McDonald, Angus D....................
McCollum, Brancis X..................
Pennsylvania ....
Illinois .......
Pennsylvania ....
Illinois..
Texas.....
New York........
McDonnell, Charles H................ Illinois......
McCarrick, George P. ...............Virginia.......
McConn, Bugene C....................Iowa...........
McCormack, Michael J................Tennessee......
McDonough, William C.................
McGinnis, James H...................
McKenzie, Bdward.....................
McCarthy, Epigene B.................
McCarthy, Thomas B...................
McConnell, Hugh.....................
McDermott, Charles..................
Iowa............
Massachusetts.. ..
Kentucky......
Illinois......
Illinois......
Illinois........
Indiana.......
McDonell, Alexander A
McBarland, Charles B..
McIntyre, Robert F....
Wisconsin
Ohio.....
Minnesota
McLernon, James B....................
McMahon, Owen J......................
McMahon, James J.....................
McNaughton, James B..................
McNichols, William J.................
McSorley, John P.....................
McSheehy, Christopher B • • • .......
McBride, Paul H......................
McBride, Donis W.....................
McBride, John L......................
McBride, William.....................
McCarthy, J. Gerald..................
McBarland, Alexander W...............
Nebraska.......
Michigan.......
Michigan.......
Illinois.
Illinois.......
New York.......
Colorado.......
Ohio.....
Ohio.....
Ohio.....
Ohio.....
Illinois.
Ohio.....
McBarland, Clarence J
Ohio...........
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
169
Illinois..........
Illinois..........
Ontario, Canada,.
Illinois..........
Illinois..........
Illinois..........
Michigan..........
Michigan..........
o
New York..........
Iowa..............
Wisconsin.........
Connecticut.......
Michigan..........
McGeeney, Bdward....................
McGeeney, James D...................
McIntyre, John B....................
McMahon, John T.....................
McMahon, Milton.....................
McMahon, William J..................
McMaster, Belford C.................
McMaster, Rollin J..................
McBlligott, Peter B........’........
McKeever, Brands H..................
McDonald, Alexander ................
McKeon, Bred T......................
McKinney, James A.... ..............
Newell, Albert B..
Naughton, David A ..
Naughton, Joseph B..
Ney, Michael J....
Neizer, Charles M •...
Nast, Bdward C....
Naughton, Thomas M
Nolan, Thomas C....
Noonan, Thomas B. • •
Ninnemann, Carl B..
Nix, Charles J....
Niewland, Julius A...
Nye, B. Cullen....
Nye, B. Bertram...
Norman, James B....
Norris, Michael...
Neville, Maurice A...
. Pennsylvania ....
.Illinois.....
.New York.....
.Iowa.........
• Indiana.....
. Colorado.....
.Illinois.........
. Ohio.....
. Illinois.
.Michigan.........
.Illinois..
.Indiana...
. Illinois.
• Illinois.
. Rhode Island....
.Illinois..
.Ohio......
Otero, Horatio W........................
Odena, Bred M...........................
O’Reilly, Joseph P......................
O’Shaughnessy, Brands...................
O’Shaughnessy, Martin...................
O’Connor, Joseph........................
O’Deary, David..........................
O’Brien, James V......................\.
O’Brien, Thomas H.......................
New Mexico....
Michigan......
Ohio..........
Missouri........
Missouri......
Illinois......
Connecticut...
Pennsylvania ....
Pennsylvania ....
I7C
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
O’Brien William W.................................Illinois............
Indiana.........
New Foundland..
Michigan........
New York........
Pennsylvania ....
Pennsylvania ....
Iowa ...........
Kentucky........
Cuba..
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
O’Brien, Francis B......................
O’Brien, Peter D........................
O’Connor, Bdward I......................
O’Connell, John J.......................
O’Malley, Francis W.....................
O’Malley, Andrew W......................
O’Malley, Raymond G.....................
O’Sullivan, St. John P..................
Ordetx, Guillermo F.....................
Oswald, Mathias J.......................
Oswald, Michael M.......................
Ohio.............
Michigan..
Ohio......
Missouri.........
Ohio......
Massachusetts....
Ohio......
Utah......
Massachussetts...
Michigan..
Montana...
Illinois..
Michigan..
Ohio......
Illinois..
Michigan..
Illinois..
Indiana...
Illinois..
Illinois..
Indiana...
Kentucky..
Indiana...
Illinois..
Pickett, Stephen B........................
Posselius, John C.........................
Pendleton, Alfred J.......................
Pim, Francis H............................
Powell, Ralph B...........................
Powers, John F............................
Pulskamp, Bdward H........................
Palmer, Ralph L...........................
Powers, Michael R.........................
Piquette, Charles J.......................
Petritz, Francis J. M.....................
Padden, Dominic J.........................
Potter, Allen H...........................
Phillips, Arthur J........................
Pulford, Cecil H..........................
Page, Will D..............................
Purdy, Warren G...........................
Paul, Clement C...........................
' Phillip, Francis J........................
Phillip, George P.........................
Paulin, Henry B...........................
Putnam, John D.............................
Pieper, Henry B ..........................
Power, William H..........................
Quinlan, John M........................Illinois..........
Ryan, James W....................................Illinois............
Ryan, James F.......................
Illinois............
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
171
Indiana.....
Indiana.........
Pennsylvania . —
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Kentucky........
Ohio............
Illinois........
Illinois........
Pennsylvania ....
Illinois........
Indiana.........
Iowa............
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Rupel, Alex C...........................
Reuss, Charles J........................
Revels, Henry A.........................
Reed, Russell A.........................
Reed, Louis M...........................
Reising, John 1$........................
Ragan, Paul J...........................
Ryan, John W............................
Richon, Alfred J........................
Rahe, Henry J...........................
Robbins, Wilson R.......................
Rinke, Henry............................
Rowan, Joseph J.........................
Rockey, Charles A.......................
Ritter, Paul A..........................
Texas...........
Tennessee.......
Illinois........
Colorado........
Illinois.......
Illinois........
Kentucky........
Ontario, Canada..
Kansas..........
Indiana.........
Ohio............
Indiana.........
Michigan........
Texas...........
Georgia.........
Michigan........
Indiana.........
Indiana.........
Illinois........
Louisiana.......
Michigan........
Kentucky........
Illinois........#
. Michigan.......
.Wisconsin.......
San Roman, Jose..........................
Sullivan, Sylvester J.....................
Scheubert, Charles 1$.....................
Sauer, Louis P............................
Shiels, Joseph P..........................
Sherman, Henry A..........................
Sanford, James G..........................
St. Louis, Vincent D......................
Schwartz, Norbert F.......................
Singler, Charles B........................
Scott, Howard H...........................
Summers, Francis J........................
S.chermerhorn, Clarence V....
Simpson, Arthur T............
Spalding, Richard S..........
Swonk, Francis G.............
Sossoman, Harvey..........................
Smogor, Francis A............
Sullivan, Joseph J.......................
Sanders, Thomas T........................
Sheehan, William F........................
Spalding, Samuel J........................
Schillo, Fred J...........................
Steiner, Thomas A.........................
Stuhlfauth, George........................
172
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Steele, Sherman...
Seaman, Ralph.....
Staples, Bugene D.
Sibley, William C.
Smith, Jay B.............
Stengel, Robert G........
Slevin, John I/. S.......
Sheeky, Bugene A.........
Schmitt, Arthur J........
Shea, William A..........
Schoonover, Fred G.......
Sheekey, Joseph P....................
Spillard, Daniel B..................
Scheftels, Fred H...................
Swan, Bdmund F......................
Swiney, Bdward B....................
St. Claire, Henry...................
Strong, Grover D....................
Sinnott, Bdgar J....................
Schaus, Herbert P.....................
Schonlau, Claire B....................
Shields, John A. B....................
Seymour, Gerald.......................
Shipley, Hermon B.....................
Schwanz, Thomas.......................
Shields, John.........................
Sherry, James.........................
Silver, John H........................
Sutton, James R.......................
Sammon, Andrew........................
Schumacher, Mathew A..................
Sullivan, James B.....................
Szalewski, Mieceslaus T...............
Ohio..........
Illinois......
Mexico........
Indiana.......
Ohio..........
Ohio..........
Illinois......
Pennsylvania ....
Ohio..........
Wisconsin.......
Illinois......
Indiana.......
Illinois......
Wisconsin.....
Indiana.......
Illinois......
Illinois......
Colorado......
Indiana.......
Illinois......
Illinois.......
Indiana........
Iowa...........
Iowa...........
Indiana........
New York.......
New York.......
New York.......
Iowa...........
Minnesota.......
Indiana........
Missouri.......
Indiana........
Tomlinson, Charles A....................
Tong, Oliver W..........................
Thacker, Fred W.........................
Taylor, Henry B.........................
Taylor, Francis C.......................
Taylor, James G.........................
Tuohy, Joseph W.........................
Arkansas.........
Indiana..........
Ohio ............
Illinois.........
Illinois.........
New York.........
Illinois.........
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAMR„
173
North Dakota. —
Indiana.........
Illinois........
Indiana.........
Wisconsin.......
Indiana.........
Thams, Jolin L.........................
Tong, Lucius G.........................
Topper, David J........................
Trentman, Stephen A....................
Tierney, William J.....................
Trahey, James J........................
Belgium.........
Indiana.........
Illinois........
Illinois........
Indiana.........
Michigan........
Michigan........
Michigan........
Indiana.........
Illinois........
Illinois........
Van Hee, Arthur J.......................
Vogt, Charles F.........................
Van Sant, Ralph N.......................
Van Sant, Leport R......................
Veneziani, Louis I......................
Van Dyke, James A.......................
Van Dyke, Francis G.....................
Van Dyke, Harold P......................
Van der Vennett, Arthur.................
Von Albade, William.....................
Von Albade, Wells T.....................
New Jersey..........
Indiana.............
Ohio................
Illinois............
Indiana.............
Colorado............
Wynne, Peter J.........................
Wieczorek, Ladislaus A.................
Watterson, Theodore V..................
Wilson, Robert M... s..................
Woolverton, John J.....................
Waters, Fred L.........................
Wheeler, Lucien C. - - ■
Williams, John P.....
Ward, James A.........
Wilson, Ralph M.......
Ward, Walter M........
Wilson, George H......
Wagenman, Eugene A,
White, Benjamin M...
Walsh, Edward J.......
Ward, Francis R.......
Weadock, Louis T.....
Welker, Vincent B...
Wise, Philip L........
Wurzer, F. Henry....
Weidmann, George S.
Ward, Hugh St. Clair
Iowa.............
Indiana..........
Illinois.........
Pennsylvania ....
Illinois.........
Illinois.........
Missouri.........
Colorado.........
Wisconsin........
Minnesota........
Michigan........
Ohio............
Illinois........
.Michigan.......
■ Ohio...........
.Illinois.........
174
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Wheelock, George H....................
White, Hume S.........................
Werk, Emile E.........................
Welch, Francis M......................
Welman, Victor A......................
Wigg, Clifford C.....................
Wilde, George A.......................
Weidmann, Fritz M.....................
Weis Irwin E .........................
Indiana.........
Colorado........
Ohio ...........
Illinois........
Indiana.........
Illinois........
Indiana.........
Ohio..
Illinois........
Ohio..............
Illinois..........
Indiana...........
Illinois..........
Ohio..............
Weber, Eawrence K....................
Williams, Robert W...................
Wolf, Arthur.........................
Walsh, Mathew J......................
Wimberg, William E...................
Yockey, Edward J
Michigan.......
Fifty-Fourth
Annual Commencement.
176
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts in course was conferred on
Thomas Hennessey, Notre Dame, Indiana.
William Montavon, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Thomas A. Medley, Springfield, Kentucky.
Michael J. Oswald, Notre Dame', Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Bdward J. Mingey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Raymond G. O’Malley, Cresco, Iowa.
Michael R. Powers, Adams, Massachusetts.
William F. Sheehan, Hancock, Michigan.
Francis Barle Hering, Notre Dame Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
William C. Kegler, Bellevue, Iowa.
Hugh C. Mitchell, Bdna, Texas.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
ferred on
William W. Fitzpatrick, Paris, Texas.
Charles J. Piquette, Detroit, Michigan.
Bdward B. Falvey, St. Joseph, Missouri.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
James Shaw Dodge, Blkhart, Indiana.
Francis J. F. Confer, Altoona, Pennsylvania.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Ferdinand H. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan.
Francis P. Dreher, Detroit, Michigan.
Samuel J. Spalding, Lebanon, Kentucky.
Peter B. Kearney, Chicago, Illinois.
Clarence V. Schermerhorn, Sturgis, Michigan.
Joseph B. Corby, St. Joseph, Missouri.
M. James Ney, Independence, Iowa.
Bdward J. Mingey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
177
Commercial Course.
Diplomas were awarded to
Timothy C. Harrington, Richmond, Indiana.
John B. Koehler, Chicago, Illinois.
Louis M. Fetherston, What Cheer, Iowa.
Adam J. Kasper, Chicago, Illinois.
Thomas C. Nolan, Tiffin, Ohio.
Bugene A. Sheekey, Braddock, Pennsylvania.
Prize Medals.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan of
Chicago, Illinois, for the student having the
best record in the Classical Course,
Senior year, was awarded to
Michael J. Oswald,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Mason Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason of
Chicago, Illinois, for the student of Carroll Hall
having the best record for the scholastic year
was awarded to
Albert J. Krug,
Dayton, Ohio.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated by the Hon.
William P. Breen, ’77, Fort Wayne, was awarded to
Louis C. M. Reed,
South Bend, Indiana.
178
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, presented by
Mrs. James Meehan of Covington, Kentucky,
was awarded to
Francis Earle Hering,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Ellsworth C* Hughes Medal, presented by Mr. A. S.
Hughes, Denver, Colorado, for the best record
in Mathematics was awarded to
William C. Kegler,
Bellevue, Iowa.
The Rademacher Grand Gold Medal, donated by the Right
Rev. Bishop of Fort Wayne, for Christian Doctrine in
Brownson Hall, First Course, was awarded to
St. John O’Sullivan,
Louisville, Kentucky.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll Hall,
First Course, was awarded to
Charles N. Girsch,
Chicago, Illinois.
SPECIAL COURSES.
The Barry Elocution Medal in Brownson Hall, donated by
the Hon. P. T. Barry of Chicago, was awarded to
Jerome J. Crowley,
Chicago, Illinois.
The Commercial Gold Medal for highest standing in Senior
Year Commercial was awarded to
Timothy C. Harrington,
Richmond, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
179
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, Second
Course, was awarded to
Vincent D. Dwyer,
Anderson, Indiana.
The Medal for Christian Doctrine in Brownson Hall, Third
Course, was awarded to
Michael J. Flannigan,
Minneapolis, Minnesota.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
Lawrence K. Weber.
The Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
John J. Alber crombie.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Charles J. Kelly.
The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to
Fritz M. Weidmann.
The Gold Medal for Politeness was awarded to
Francis W. Bbbert.
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Grover C. Davis.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Wallace W. Hall.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Mandolin was
awarded to
Jasper H. Lawton.
The Gold Medal for Excellence in Studies was awarded to
Miles E. Flynn.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to
Paul H. McBride.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
180
The Silver Medal for Composition was awarded to
Thomas J. Butler.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Composition
was awarded to
Oscar F. Fleischer.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Louis L. Abrahams.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
John J. Cunnea.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Letter-Writing
was awarded to
Grover D. Strong.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Vocal Music
was awarded to
Aeva C. Bosworth.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Penmanship
was awarded to
Fdward L. Manion.
The Silver Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to
Francis J. Phillip.
The Silver Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Philip J. Dougherty.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
181
First Honor Awards.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brownson
Halls, who have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for
scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year. The first
honor awarded for the first year takes the form a a diploma: that
awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This
medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Edward J. Mingey, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(Renewal.)
Thomas A. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan. (Renewal.)
Julius A. Arce, Ariquipa, Peru, South America.
■	(2d Renewal.)
Eugene A. Delaney, Lykens, Pennsylvania.
(2d Renewal.)
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Michael J. McCormack, Memphis, Tennessee.
St. John P. O’Sullivan, Louisville, Kentucky.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Medal was awarded to
Francis O’Shaughnessy, Newhall, Missouri.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Joseph A. Baloun, Canton, Ohio.
Vincent D. Dwyer, Anderson, Indiana.
Timothy C. Harrington, Richmond, Indiana.
Edward W. Hubbard, Auburn, New York.
Stephen B. Pickett, Toledo, Ohio.
Arthur T. Simpson, Dallas, Texas.
182
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Deportment Prize Medals*
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls, who have spent two full years at Notre Dame,
and whose deportment during the whole time has been unexcep-
tionable.]
CARROLL HALL
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to William F.
Dinnen (renewal), William H. N. Maher (renewal), James
B. Morgan, Arthur H. Mueller, Thomas J. Murray, Thomas
C. Nolan, Thomas E. McCarthy.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Lawrence
K. Weber, James A. Van Dyke, Francis W. Ebbert, Law-
rence A. Hart, Kenneth E. Casparis, John B. Ervin, Ralph
N. Van Sant, Louis W. McBride.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls, who have spent two years at Notre Dame,
and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Elmer J.
Berger, John S. Putnam, Hugh St. Clair Ward.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Wallace
W. Hall, John L. McBride, Lynn J. Griffith, James D. Mc-
Geeney, J. Gerald McCarthy, George A. Wilde, Percy J.
Manion.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
183
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY*
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of the
buildings and grounds that the University has no need of
money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without endowment,
and its work is seriously hampered because it has no resourses
except the fees of the students. There is one scholarship,
and the interest from this foundation is used in educating
and boarding a student.
There were last year 1,452 Catholic students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and very
many of these will lose their faith, and all will be weakened
in that faith, because our people look upon Collegiate Insti-
tutions as the property of private corporations which are to
be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys that can not
pay the expense of education, and who therefore are obliged
to go to non-Catholic Colleges to the detriment of their
faith. A foundation of $5,000 will educate and board a
student -as long as the University exists. As one bursar is
graduated another can take his place. The founder of the
scholarship, of course, always has the privilege of appoint-
ing the student.
We lack money for a library building, and for two more
dwelling-halls like Sorin Hall.	'
Two or three thousand dollars are required for finishing
and equipping the new gymnasium.
Foundations for scholarships are also a pressing need.
There is no library fund for the purchase of new books.
The names of benefactors will be given to all foundations.
184
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Bequests should be made after this form:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I give, devise and bequeath to the University of
Notre Dame du Lac? an institution incorporated
under the laws of the State of Indiana, and located
at Notre Dame, Indiana,______________________________
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAMg.
185
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Is the title of a neat 28-page paper, devoted to the inter-
ests of the students, and published by them at the Uni-
versity every week during Term time. This journal opens
a field for young writers who might otherwise, for want of
a proper medium, allow their talents to remain inactive.
It also affords students an opportunity for practical exper-
ience in journalism. During seasons of special interest at
the University, The Scholastic is published daily.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry,
Notes on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notes of New
Publications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has
a special importance for students, their parents, and all who
have had classes at the University in times past, an account
of the weekly summary of events happening at Notre Dame,
personal Notices of former students, Rolls of Honor, Class
Honors, List of Excellence, etc., which appear in its col-
umns every week. Reports relative to the arrangement of
classes, the promotion of the more talented and energetic
students, etc., also find a place in this paper and keep the
parents and others informed about matters that concern
their children and friends.
It will be the endeavor of the Editors during the coming
year to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past,
and the encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50
per annum.
Address all communications to THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
INDEX.
The University or Notre Dame.......................frontispiece
Directory of the University.................................. 2
Calendar for 1898-’99........................................ 3
Board of Trustees............................................ 4
Executive Officers of the University......................... 5
Directors of Halls........................................... 6
Professors and Instructors................................... 7
Notre Dame University....................................... 11
University Buildings........................................ 12
Discipline.................................................. 20
Medals and Honors........................................... 23
Expenses.................................................... 24
Courses of Instruction...................................... 26
Regulations Governing Admission to Collegiate Courses.......	86
School of Arts and Betters :
Preliminary Entrance Examinations..................... 89
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Arts............... 91
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Betters............ 92
School of Science :
Requirements for Admission............................ 93
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Science............ 96
Studies Prescribed for Bachelor of Science in	Biology.	98
Studies Prescribed for Pharmacy....................... 101
School of Engineering.
Entrance Examinations................................ 103
Studies Prescribed for Civil Engineering............. 108
Studies Prescribed for Mechanical Engineering......... in
Studies Prescribed for Electrical Engineering........ 113
Studies Prescribed for Short Course in Applied Electricity, 115
School of Baw :
faculty.............................................. 117
The System of Instruction............................ 120
Course of Study...................................... 127
Text-books........................................... 131
Expenses............................................. 141
Commercial Course.................................... 143
Preparatory School................................... 147
Minim Department................?.................... 153
Expenses........................................ 157
Catalogue of Students................................ 158
Fifty-Fourth Annuae Commencement:
Conferring of Degrees........................... 176
Commercial Diplomas............................. 177
Prize Medals.................................... 177
First Honor Awards.............................. 181
Deportment Prize Medals......................... 182
Needs of the University.............................. 183
The Notre Dame Schoeastic............................ 185
St* Mary's Academy.
(One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.)
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY for young ladies, now entering upon
its forty-fourth year of active educational work, has earned
the reputation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped
and successful institutions in the United States. The location
is on the dividing ridge of the St. Lawrence and Mississippi river
systems, in the highest and most healthful part of the State. The
Academy buildings—large, well ventilated and commodious, heated
with steam, supplied with hot and cold water, and with fire escapes
of the latest and best kind—are beautifully situated on an eminence
over-looking the picturesque banks of the St. Joseph River.
All the branches of
A Thorough English and Classical Education,
including Greek, Latin, French and German are taught by a Faculty
of competent teachers. On completing the full course of studies
students receive the
Regular Collegiate Degrees of Litt. B. or A. B.
The Conservatory of Music is conducted on the plan of the best
Classical Conservatories of Europe. Three instrumental lessons, and
one in theory weekly, are included in the regular tuition; extra
practice pro rata.
The Art Department is modelled after the best Art Schools in
Europe.
Preparatory and Minim Departments.—Pupils who need primary
training, and those of tender age, are here carefully prepared for the
Academic Course and Advanced Course.
Book-keeping, Phonography and Typewriting extra. Every variety
of Fancy Needlework taught.
For catalogue containing full information, address,
DIRECTRESS OF THE ACADEMY.
St. Mary’s Academy,
NOTRE DAME P. O.. INDIANA.

St. Mary's Academy.