CATALOGUE
1901-1902.
Notre, Dame, Indiaiici
CATALOGUE
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
1901-1902.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY—Address:
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
%
The STUDENTS—Address:
*
As for the Faculty, except that the name of
the Hall in which the Student lives should
be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, and an Express Office
are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk,
the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the St. Joseph,
South Bend & Southern, and the Michigan Central railways
run directly into South Bend.
2
CALENDAR FOR 1902-1903.

SEPTEMBER 9. Examination of Conditioned Students. JO-IL Entrance Examinations. J2. Schools begin. 21.	Reading of the University Regulations in all the Halls. OCTOBER 13. Founder's Day. Holiday. 24-25. Bi-Monthly Examinations. 29.	Annual Retreat begins in the Evening. NOVEMBER 1. Feast of All Saints. Holiday. 27.	Thanksgiving Day. Holiday. 30.	President's Day. Holiday. DECEMBER 8. Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Holiday. 10. Contest in Oratory. 18-19. Winter Examinations. 20. Christmas Vacation begins. JANUARY	5.	Schools begin. FEBRUARY	22.	Washington's Birthday. Holiday. 24-25. Bi-Monthly Examinations. MARCH	17.	St. Patrick's Day.	Holiday. 19.	St. Joseph's Day. Holiday. APRIL	12.	Easter. No Easter	'Vacation. J3. Easter Monday. Holiday. 24-25. Bi-Monthly Examinations. MAY	I. Latest Date for handing in Prize and Gradu- ation Essays in all Collegiate Courses. 20.	Contest in Elocution. 30.	Decoration Day. Holiday. JUNE	12-13. Examination of Graduates. 14.	Baccalaureate Sermon. 15-17. General Examinations. 17.	Commencement. Preliminary Exercises, 7:30 p. m. 18.	Graduation Exercises, 8:00 A. m.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Very Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.;
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, .C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
VICE - PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
Bro. JOSEPH, C. S. C,
ASSISTANT SECRETARY.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
Rev. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. JAMES READY, C. S. C.
Bro. EINAN, C. S. C.	Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL.
Rev. THOS. H. CORBETT, C. S. C. Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.	Bro. HILARION, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. FLORENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.	Bro. MALACHY, C. S. 0.
CARROLL HALL.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.	Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.	Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL.
Rev. WILLIAM HOULIHAN, C. S. C. Bro. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.	Bro. WILFRID, C. S. C.
PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS.
J*
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. 0.,
Evidences of Religion.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
Rev. MARTIN J. REG-AN, C. S. 0.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. NICHOLAS STOFFEL, C. S. C., *
Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy and French.
Rev. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Rhetoric.
Rev. MICHAEL A. QUINLAN, C. S. 0.,
English.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. G.,
Psychology.
* Died March 20, 1902.
8
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. JAMES READY, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. WILLIAM McNAMEE, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
History and Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., 0. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
AUSTIN O’MALLEY, Ph. D., LL. D.,
English Literature.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Physics and Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
Anatomy and Physiology. (House Physician.)
FRANCIS J. POWERS, M. S.,
Biology.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Drawing.
JOBSON EMILIEN PARADIS, A. M.,
Painting and Artistic Drawing. (Pupil of Gerome.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9
JOHN LANE O’CONNOR, A. B.,
Elocution.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
WILLIAM C. KEGLER, C. E.,
Mathematics.
LEO ELIEL,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Book Keeping and Commercial Law.
Bro. FINAN, C. S. C.,
Gaelic.
CHARLES PERCY MacHUGH, A. B.,
Latin and English.
ALPHAEUS B. REYNOLDS, A. B.,
Latin.
FRANK EARLE HERING, Litt. B.,
English.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, A. B. LL. M.,
Law.
JOHN M. COONEY, A. M.,
Greek and Mathematics.
VICTOR M. ARANA,
Spanish.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director of the Department of Music.
Bro. LEOPOLD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
10
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
DANIEL J. ROCHE,
Vocal Music.
ERANCIS E. DUKETTE.
Music.
ERANCIS B. CORNELL, Litt. B.,
Music.
OMER D. GREEN,
Telegraphy.
LOUIS J. CAREY,
Music.
JOHN P. CURRY,
Phonography and Typewriting.
WILLIAM T. SIEWERTSEN,
Shopwork.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. REMIGIUS, 0. S. C.
Bro. ALBINUS, C. S. C.
Bro. MALACHY, C. S. C.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. BENJAMIN, C. S. C:
PHILIP B. WEISS, Jr.
Gymnastics.
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the year
1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the late Superior
General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. In an act
approved January 15, 1844, the Legislature of Indiana gave
the University power to grant degrees. The beginning of
this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse,
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate and
politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of Notre
Dame du Lac,’ and by that name they shall have perpetual
succession, with full power and authority to confer and
grant, or cause to be conferred and granted, such degrees
and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences, and in law and
medicine, as are usually conferred and granted in other
Universities in the United States, provided, however, that
no degree shall be conferred or diplomas granted, except to
students who have acquired the same proficiency in the
liberal arts and sciences, and in law and medicine, as is
customary in other Universities in the United States.”
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE MAIN BUILDING.
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it is
five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls, some
dormitories and class-rooms and the refectories are in this
building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial Hall are
also here temporarily. This building, like all others in the
University, is lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by
steam. The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 feet in height from the floor to
the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori, and
the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt and many
chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells and the great
six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8 :oo a. m. to 9 :oo p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and about
100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the Musical
department, the reading rooms for Brownson and Carroll
Halls, and the University Theatre. The Theatre is equipped
with stage settings, and it will seat 1,200 persons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the build-
ing, is occupied by the Museum containing mineral, fossil,
and biological specimens.
THE CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first and second floors
of Science Hall.
On the second floor, and adjoining the General Museum,
is a large and well lighted room reserved for a library and
chemical museum. Here are a library of chemical journals
and books, and a steadily increasing collection of minerals,
chemicals, and chemical-technical products of all kinds,
designed to serve as illustrations of substances and processes
discussed in the various lecture courses. Adjoining this
room are, successively, an apparatus-room, filled with the
most modern apparatus for lecture and experimental work;
a chemical store room, where laboratory supplies may be
procured by the students; a lecture room, and a laboratory
for Qualitative Analysis. The laboratory is furnished with
four hoods, of good draught; the desks are provided with
water, gas and the necessary reagents, and can give
accommodation to fifty students. The lecture room is
provided, among other things, with apparatus for stereopti-
con illustration, with electric batteries, and with a complete
set of charts illustrative of the process employed in modern
chemical industries.
The assay and furnace-room, on the first floor is equipped
with a set of gas furnaces of the most modern type, for the
operations of roasting, fusing, scorifying and cupelling
employed in the dry assay of ores.
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Department of
- PHYSICS AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture room,
with a seating capacity for sixty-five students, adjoining the
rooms in which the apparatus is stored in dust-proof cases.
Several smaller rooms in the basement contain heavy piers
of masonry, for work with sensitive galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Laboratories:
IN MECHANICS, ETC. :
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit chronograph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Rotary air pump and* receivers.
ACOUSTICS :
Three sets of organ pipes,
Pour sets of fine tuning forks,
Set of electrically-operated tuning Edison phonograph,
forks by Koenig,	Apparatus for manometric observ-
A Scott-Phonautograph,	vation of sound phenomea,
Koenig’s movable tuning forks Sets of vibrating rods, tubes and
to draw compound curves on bells,
smoked glass,	Large double siren.
Large physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard meter,
Geneva cathetometer,
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
. IN
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
IN light:
Complete set of diffraction and
interference apparatus by
Soleil, Paris,
Sets of polarizing apparatus,
Sets of lenses and spherical mir-
rors,
Two heliostas,
Pour spectroscopes,
A polarizing saccharimeter,
Three projecting lanterns for gas
or electric light, and 2,000 .
slides,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
Two Rowland gratings, 14,000 Several cameras with, lenses and
lines to the inch,	attachments,
Sets of photographs of solar spec- A well equipped dark-room for
trum by Rowland,	photographic work.
in heat:
Melloin’s apparatus for measur- Standard thermometers,
ing radiation, absorption and Air thermometer,
reflection of heat, complete Steam engine indicator,
with prepared substances, Calorimeters.
IN ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM :
An absolute electrometer,	Six bridges of different types,
Holtz machine and apparatus for Historical set of motors showing
illustrating static phenomena. evolution of the modern ma-
Ten galvanometers of various chine from the early forms of
types,	the reciprocating type,
Ammeters and voltmeters, Standard resistance coils,
One 2,000 Tb. electro magnet, Set of storage cells,
Pour induction coils,	Complete X-ray outfit.
In addition to the electrical apparatus in the Department
of Physics, the equipment for the practical work in Electrical
Engineering consists of engines, dynamos and instruments
of commercial size, as follows:
A high frequency 1000 V, 33 K.
W., composite wound, Wood
alternator of the latest type,
with exciter and a full set of
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of different
capacity,
An Edison bipolar 15 K. W. 125
V, generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and
fifteen lamps,
An Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125
V, with special winding,
A Van Depoele compound wound
dynamo,
A power or foot lathe with wood
turning tools, drills and hand
tools for metals,
A set of tools for metal working,
A set of wood working tools,
Telegraph and telephone appara-
tus,
Standard portable bridge,
Common portable bridge,
Kohlrausch bridge for measuring
battery resistance, etc.,
Testing battery,
ITArsonval and common galvano-
meters,
Resistance boxes, standard meg-
ohms, etc.,
16
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
A series wound dynamo with
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors,
A forty horse power high speed
automatic engine,
A plug switchboard controlling
all circuits,
A calibrating lamp rack,
A small engine belted to shafting
to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and
polishing work to be plated;
solutions, tanks, etc.—in all
a complete outfit for electro-
typic work,
number of ammeters and volt-
meters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current meas-
urements,
set of inclined coil alternate
current portable instruments;
voltmeter, ammeter and watt-
meter,
A case of marked samples of wire
insulators, lamps, and other
construction materials,
Library of practical technical
books of reference and files
of leading periodicals.
EQUIPMENT IN THE DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY, GEOLOGY,
AND MINERALOGY.
The Department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-
graduate students. All the class rooms are furnished with
charts and models necessary in teaching the different
courses. The arrangement of windows is such that the
rooms can be easily darkened so that a stereopticon and
lantern slides on the subjects of Botany, Zoology, and
Physiology may be used.
The Laboratories are well equipped with compound and
dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a special
library, including standard Biological works. The Botanical
laboratory contains twenty-four compound miscroscopes and
all the requisite accessories for work in vegetable histology
and cryptogramic botany. The general laboratory of
miscroscopy, histology and embryology is also supplied
with compound miscroscopes and their usual accessory
apparatus and other equipments indispensable in the three
courses mentioned above.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
17
The Bacteriological Laboratory is completely equipped
with compound miscroscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and all
the improved apparatus employed in thorough and careful
work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a laboratory
of Photo-Micrography which contains a perfect photo-
micrographic instrument with a complete set of accessory
apparatus for experimentation, photographing microscopic
objects, making lantern-slides, etc. A large and fully
equipped dark-room adjoins this laboratory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-
rooms, and laboratories for the courses in Geology and
Mineralogy. The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms
are well equipped for work in blow-pipe analysis and
assaying.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The Zoological collection
on the second floor at present fills sixteen large cases and
represents typical forms of all the orders and genera of
vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large collection of
representative vertebrate skeletons has recently been added
to this part of the Museum.
The Botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of two
complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the other of
Canada. There is also a second collection of the woods and
fruits of the United States, almost complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a care-
fully classified collection of minerals and ores. The opposite
series of cases contains a large Geological collection; some
of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil remains of
animal and plant life.
18
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ENGINEERING HALL.
The building set apart for the students of Engineering
is situated directly south of Science Hall. It is a large
three-story brick building, well lighted and heated and was
carefully designed for the special purpose it serves. Of the
three stories, the upper two are divided into lecture, recita-
tion and drawing rooms. These are used exclusively by the
Engineeering students and are admirably arranged to meet
their needs.
The wood shop, machine shop and blacksmith shop are
on the first floor. The wood shop is supplied with modern
work-benches fully equipped with the smaller tools necessary
for carpentry, twelve lathes, for turning, a jig saw, a revolv-
ing planer, a circular saw, and a mortising machine,—the
whole forming an adequate equipment for a thorough mas-
tery of scroll work and pattern making. The machine shop
contains two steam engines, one horizontal, the other vertical,
and from these power is distributed to the various machines
by a line of shafting running the entire length of the build-
ing. The latest improved lathes have been provided, nine
in number, varying from a five inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe of ten inch swing, with sixteen foot
bed. Two drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine,
and a Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the
equipment, thus making the machine shop a model of its
kind. The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding, and tool-making.
The southern portion of the second story of this Hall
is used for the
CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The equipment of this department is sufficient for all the
practice and exercises in the field necessary to illustrate and
teach the practical methods of engineering. The instru-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
19
mental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit, one engineer’s
transit, with level and vertical circle attached to telescope,
one engineer’s wye level plane table with all the attachments,
clinometers, chains, tapes, etc.
The entire upper floor of this building is given up to
chemical laboratories. The Quantitative, Organic, Pharma-
ceutical, and Elementary Chemistry laboratories are in this
story. Each laboratory is provided with ample hood accomo-
dations, and each desk is furnished with water, gas and
suction. The balance room adjoining contains assay and
analytical balances, sensitive to one ten-thousandth of a
gramme. The Quantitive laboratory is fully equipped with
apparatus for work in gas analysis, organic analysis and
with apparatus for “ Boiling-Point and Freezing-Point
Determinations.”
SORIN HALL.
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings 112
feet in depth. It has a basement and three high stories.
The building contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished and students of the
Senior or Junior classes of any of the Collegiate Courses are
not required to pay rent. On the first floor there is a chapel,
a law lecture-room and a law library. The building is
lighted with electricity and heated with steam. In the base-
ment are a recreation room and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL.
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has three
stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width. There
are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation-rooms
and a chapel. The building- is lighted with electricity and
gas and heated with steam. For room-rent and care of the
room a fee is charged.
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This building has a revolving dome with an equatorial
telescope to which the students of Astronomy have access.
The transit-room and the computing-room contain the
smaller instruments and the works of reference.
THE INFIRMARY.
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measurement
and three stories in height, contains rooms for the use of
students during illness. The sick are nursed by Sisters of
the Holy Cross, and the University physician visits them
daily.
THE GYMNASIUM.
The gymnasium, which was burnt down in November,
1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 100 feet in dimen-
sions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on the ground:
it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball-practice, basket-
ball and military drill. The gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet
and is furnished with a full set of new apparatus; below
that are the offices, dressing-rooms and showerbaths. Friends
of the University and the alumni contributed more than
$3,000 to the fund for re-building.
The Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a prominent grand stand near the baseball diamond
and the cinder track, and a portable stand near the football
rectangle. The field contains ten acres of ground, and is a
gift to the University from Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. E.,
of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS.
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principal are: Saint
Joseph’s Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Edward’s Hall.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
DISCIPLINE.
Official bi-monthly reports of each student’s class standing
will be sent to parents and guardians.
The Faculty maintains that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of a
youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible to
bring about this development where students are granted
absolute relaxation from all Faculty government while out-
side the class-room. A young man must learn obedience
to law by the actual practice of obedience, not by mere
appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtained except where
discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown to be salutary
by experience, are enforced at the University.
I.	No student shall leave the University grounds with-
out permission from the President or the person delegated to
represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked upon
as a serious violation of rule.
22
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in ex-
aminations, the use of intoxicating liqwors, immorality, the
use of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
absence from the college limits are among the causes for
expulsion. In a case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees will be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discontinued
without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward's Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson Hall;
those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll Hall;
and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to those
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls that have
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.	-
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or Corby
Hall leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
service in the College Church at stated times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is strictly prohibited.
11.	To guard against clandestine and improper cor-
respondence, the President reserves the right to supervise
letters to and from students.
12.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of study
will not be permitted, but students are expected to take
part in outdoor sports and other games.
13.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	23
14.	All athletic associations of the students are strictly
forbidden to countenance anything that savors of profes-
sionalism.
15.	All athletics will be governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the regula-
tions adopted by the Conference Colleges. The President of
the University and members of the Faculty will compose this
Board, and reserve the right of a final decision on all ques-
tions concerning athletics. The Faculty Board will deter-
mine the amateur standing of the members of the athletic
teams, and apportion the finances. By this means indiscreet
and unconsidered action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Each winter eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Concerts are also given monthly by organiza-
tions from without.
24
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MEDALS AND HONORS.
The Quan Gold Medal is awarded yearly to the student
in the Senior Class of the Classical Course that has the
highest average over 80 per centum.
The Meehan Gold Medal, founded by Mrs. J. Meehan,
of Covington, is awarded to a Senior student in the
English or Classical Course for an English Essay. This
medal is awarded only when the best essay has attained a
fixed standard.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal, presented by Mr. A.
Hughes, of Denver, is awarded for the best record in
Mathematics.
The Breen Gold Medal, founded by Mr. William P.
Breen, of Fort Wayne, is awarded for Oratory.
The Barry Medal, founded by Mr. P. T. Barry, of
Chicago, is awarded in Brownson Hall for Elocution.
The Mason Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason, of
Chicago, is awarded to the student of Carroll Hall having
the best record for the Scholastic year.
First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin and Brown-
son Halls that have maintained throughout the year an
average of at least 90 per centum for class-work and observ-
ance of regulations. A first-honor man for the first year
receives a diploma, the second year a gold medal. The
medal may be received also during the succeeding year
of the course.
Expenses*
26
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance), $ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern
Languages included) Lodging, Washing, and
Mending of Linens, per Session of nearly ten
Months, -	-	-	-	-	-	300.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows :
On entrance in September, -	$200.00
January 15th,	-	$100.00
The charge of $300 covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100
per Scholastic Year. This latter sum is accepted as an entirety for
tuition during the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole
or in part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the
fundamental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby brought
to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absent-
ing himself from the University at any time or for any cause with-
out proper notice and permission. However, an exception is made if
it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home because of severe
or protracted illness. Degrees will not l)e conferred on any student
whose account with the University has not been settled.
There is no reduction for students that come late in September,
nor for those that return- late in January.
SPECIAL EXPENSES.—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE.
PRIVATE ROOMS:
Sorin Hall, Seniors and Juniors Free.
Sophomores and Freshmen,	-	$50.00
Corby Hall, -	$80.00
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves to the
regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the following
may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year. The charges
will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons on Telegraphy..........$25.00
Piano and use of Instru- Typewriting—Full Course,
ment ............$60.00	(20 lessons)..........$5.00
Use of Piano	for	advanced	Phonography ...........$25.00
Students ........$30.00	Practical Mechanics....$30.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	27
Lessons on Violin, Guitar, “Scholastic,” College paper, $ 1.50
Flute, Cornet, Clarinet Artistic Drawing..................$25.00
and Mandolin........$30.00 Military Uniform..........
Use of each Instrument... $ 5.00 Applied Electricity......$40.00
Vocal Culture............$40.00	Special Lecture and Con-
Vocal Sight Reading......$ 5.00	cert Course...........$ 3.00
Elocution—Special Course, $10.00 Gymnastics — Full Course
Use of Library...........$ 5.00	(20 lessons)..........$ 5.00
For Laboratory Fees in Regular Courses see pages 68, 108, 111, 114.
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a degree, $io; Commercial
■Course, $5.
REMARKS.
The Entrance fee, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory
iees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, postoffice money
■order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange
will be charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Brownson, Sorin, Corby and Carroll Halls are closed
during the months of July and August.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the
University, a limited number of students aspiring to the
ecclesiastical state can be received at special rates. Fuller
information can be obtained by addressing the President.
The year 1902-1903 will open on Tuesday, September, 9.
Courses of Instruction*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. '	29
COURSES IN PHILOSOPHY.
• ♦
I.
(a)	Physiological Psychology—This course is a fairly
comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of con-
sciousness.
(b)	Experimental Psychology—Psycho-physical meth-
ods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology—The problems of the mind.
Nature, origin, and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive. Lectures three hours
a week for two terms.]
(d)	Laboratory Exercises—Experiments will be con-
ducted with special reference to their value as aids to
introspection. Sanford: Course in Experimental Psy-
chology.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Elements of Epistemology. A study of the Scho-
lastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teachings of
Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant and
Spencer.
[This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and
General Metaphysics and will be given at the
beginning of the year during the time prescribed
for these studies.]
(b)	Logic—• Hyslop: Elements of Logic.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(c)	General Metaphysics—Transcendental concepts:
their value in different systems of philosophy.
-	[Two hours a week for one term.]
30
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
(d)	Cosmology—The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences and their place in Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.}
(e)	Theodicy—The existence of God; His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a zveek for one term.}
(f)	Student Discussions—From time to time through-
out the year students will be required to read and discuss
papers on various subjects in the field of philosophic
inquiry.
III.
Principles of Ethics ~(Q. I-) Man’s last End and Happi-
ness ; the Purpose of Man in this life. (Q. 2.) Human
Acts; Responsibility; Merit; Obstacles to Human Acts.
(Q. 3.) Origin of Morality; Hedonism; Altruism; Sympa-
thy.; Essential Difference between Good and Evil; the
Constituents of Morality; the Eternal Law. (Q. 4.) The
Natural Moral Law; its Existence and Characters; Evolu-
tion. (Q. 3.) The Positive Law. (Q. 6.) On Conscience;
Good Faith; Doubtful Conscience and Reflex Principles.
(Q. 7.) Passions in Practical Life; their Classification; their
Imputability. (Q. 8.) The Moral Virtues; Stoicism; Epi-
cureanism ; Christianity.
[Five hotLrs a week for one term.}
IV.
(a)	Individual Duties—Notions of Right and Duty.
(Q. 1.) The Duty of Man to God; Necessity of External
and Public Worship; Obligation of Prayer; the fact of Sac-
rifice. (Q. 2.) The Duty of Man to Himself; Culture of
the Intelligence, the Will, the Imagination, the Memory;
Care of the body; Suicide essentially Unlawful. (Q. 3.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31
The Duty of Man to his Fellowmen; or Truthfulness and
Lying, Homicide and Self-Defence; on Duelling; on Private
Ownership, Socialism; Communism; Single Tax; on the
Right to Honor and Reputation; on Contracts and Usury.
(b)	Social Duties—(Q. i.) The Domestic Society and
Marriage; Monogamy; Polygamy and Divorce; Relations
between Parents and Children. (Q. 2.) Education: the
Part of the Parents, the Church and the State. (Q. 3.) On
Slavery in Ancient and Modern Times; Duties of Masters
and Servants. (Q. 4.) On Capital and Labor.
(c)	Sociology—Necessity of a Public Society; the City.
(Q. 1.) Origin of the Civil and Political Organization; The-
ories of Hobbes and J. J. Rousseau; source of authority in
Human Society. (Q. 2.) On the Divine Right of Kings;
the Absolute Sovereignty of the People; the Reasonable
System, fQ. 3.) The different Forms of Government; the
Primitive Polity; the best Form of Government; Opinions
of O. A. Brownson. (Q. 4.) On Modern Democracy; the
Position of the Church; the Usurpation and Transfer of the
Supreme Power; on the Government de Facto. (Q. 3.) On
Despotism; is it Lawful to Resist a Tyrant? Theory of St.
Thomas and Machiavelli on Government. (Q. 6J The Dis-
tinction of the three Social Powers; Parliamentary and
Representative Government. (Q. 7.) Qualities of a good
Ruler; the Question of the Poor. (Q. 8.) Public Liberties;
Freedom of the Press and of Conscience; the Right of the
Sword; on War and Treaties. (Q. 9.) The International
Law. (Q. 10.) Civilization. (Q. 11.) Church and State.
(d)	Government of the United States*—History of the
Constitution; the Legislative Department of the U. S.;
— * This course is sketched according to the principles laid down
in “ The American Republic,” by 0. A. Brownson, and “ The Ameri-
can Commonwealth,” by Mr. Bryce.
32
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the Executive Department of the U. S.; the President and
the Cabinet f the Judicial Department of the U. S.; the
Supreme Court; the Rights of the States and the United
States; Jury, Suffrage and Elections; Ballot Systems;
Parties and Party Machinery; Patriotism and Religion.
This Course is for Classical Students.
(c) History of Philosophy*—Schools and Systems.—
Ancient Philosophy: Pythagoras.—Anaxagoras—The Soph-
ists and Socrates.—Plato and Aristotle.—Epicurus.—Zeno.—
Pyrrho. — Eclecticism and Neo - Platonism.—’Cicero and
Seneca. Philosophy of the Middle Ages—Christian Platon-
ism ; St. Augustine.—Scholasticism: St. Thomas of Aquin.
—Renaissance and modern Philosophy: Neo-Platonism.—
Francis Bacon—Thomas Hobbes— Descartes — Spinoza —
Leibnitz—John Locke. Materialism.—David Hume.—Kant
and his disciples.—Darwin and Monism.—A. Comte and
Positivism.—Herbert Spencer.—T. Huxley—Agnosticsm
and Evolution.
* The text-book used is Weber’s “History of Philosophy.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
33
COURSES IN GREEK.
I.
Homer—Odyssey.
Xenophon—Memorabilia. First Two Books. Accidental
forms and Syntactical relations are constantly brought
to the student’s attention to fix in his mind the principles
of Grammar.
Prose Composition—The main purpose of this exercise
is to teach the student to write Greek according to the
spirit of the Greek language. Attention is constantly
directed to the difference in form of expression between
the English and the Greek.'
Grammar—Syntax reviewed. Goodwin.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.	-
H omer—O dy s s ey.
Lysias—Orations, selected.
St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.
Prose Composition—See Course I.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Homer—Iliad. First and Fifth Books. Special study
of the Homeric language and verse scansion. Grammati-
cal and etymological explanations. Works of reference.
Origin of the Homeric poems. General literary charac-
teristics of the poems. Mythology. Homeric Theology.
St. Gregory—Macchabees.
Exercises in Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV.
Homer—Iliad, Sixth Book, and Cursory Reading of
entire work. Books of reference and Collateral Reading
as in Course III.
Thucydides—First Book.
Exercises in Prose Composition.
[Five hours a zveek for one term.}
V.
(a) Demosthenes—De Corona. Review of Political
situation and historical facts in reference to the Oration.
Review of JEschines’ speech on the same subject, and
continued reference to the same. Analytical comparisons.
Constant attention is paid, throughout the courses, to the
exchange of the form of Analytical Elements of the
Greek for another more in harmony with the spirit of the
English language. The student must be prepared to
account for any form of Etymology and to explain any
rule of Syntax that he meets in the text.
Cursory Reading of Homer’s Odyssey. Homer’s works
considered as the foundation of faith or the Bible of
Pagan Greece.
Practical Exercises embodying idiomatic expressions
and constructions of the authors read.
[Five hours a zveek for one term.}
VI.
St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus. Literary apprecia-
tion of the 4th Century of the Christian Era, the Golden
Age of Christian Literature. The Greek Fathers of the
Church shown to be the peers of Demosthenes and Cicero
in purity of language, sublimity of style and oratorical
success. The end in view turns the scale in their favor.
References made to Pagan authors quoted by St. Basil.
The advantages of a Classical Education in general, and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
3$
of the study of Greek in particular are dwelt upon as a
mental training arid preparation for the literary and
scientific professions.
Sophocles— CEdipus Tyrannus. Read with special refer-
ence to the economy of the Greek Drama, its origin in
religion, its religious features, its moral, its metrical
mechanism and its adaptability to the Modern Stage.
Grecian costumes, Grecian stage and theatrical outfits.
Digest of the Theban Legends.
Short Prose Compositions—Special attention is here
given to the Greek element in the English language which
is casually observed in all the Courses.
Elements of Greek Literature.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VII.
Plato—Apology and Crito. In connection with this
author enlargements are made upon Athenian life, Athen-
ian jurisprudence, Athenian court proceedings. Socrates,
a philosopher or a sophist? His friends and his enemies.
Euripides—Medea, or Iphigenia in Aulis, with literary
digest of the myths and legends touched upon in these
dramas. The Greek Drama continued as in Course VI.
Religious tendencies of Euripides.
Pindar—Select Odes. The public games of Greece.
Reading at sight of Heyne’s Greek notes on the Odes read
in class.
Exercises—Modern Greek compared with the Ancient.
Deviations in form and expression pointed out. Modern
pronunciation discussed, but not adopted. Reading at
sight of Professor’s collections of Modern Greek Stories,
and Anecdotes. The latter are reproduced in Ancient
Greek.
36
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
History of Greek Literature.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VIII.
Cursory Reading of the Greek Fathers of the Church.
St. Basil—The Martyr Gordius. St. John Chrysostom—
The Return of Bishop Flavian. St. Gregory Nazianzen—
Funeral Oration of Caesarius.
Reading at Sight—The Professor’s Epitome of the New
Testament.
Sophocles—Philoctetes or Antigone.
Aristophanes—Frogs and Clouds. Greek Comedy; its
nature; its aim. Political Situation, Party Spirit, and
work of Secret Societies in Athens during the Pelopon-
nesian war. Religious and Philosophical revolutions of
the time. Conservatism of ^Eschylos and Sophocles as
compared with the compliant spirit of Euripides. Aris-
tophanes as opportune in the 20th Century as in his own
days of enlightenment.
Modern Greek—Reading at sight of CF Maupy Apatov/]?,
History of Greek Literature.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
37
COURSES. IN LATIN.
I.
Cicero—Select Letters. Orations.
Latin Composition based on Cicero’s text.
Virgil—PEneid. First and Second books. The expla-
nations cover peculiarities of Syntax, Figures, Mytholo-
gy, Versification. Collateral reading is indicated to the
students.
Prosody—Ordinary Rules of Prosody. Practical Work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Cicero—De Senectute or De Amicitia.
Latin Composition based on Cicero.
Virgil—2Eneid. Fourth Book with complete explana-
tions. Fifth and Sixth Books. Collateral Reading indi-
cated to the student.
Practice in Latin Conversation.
Prosody—Completed.
III.
Livy—Book XXI.
Latin Composition based on Livy.
Horace—Odes and Epodes. The explanations include
the study of the Metrical Systems, Peculiarities of Style,
Plan of the Composition, Comparison with Odes of a
similar nature. Collateral reading indicated to the
student.
Practice in Latin Conversation.
Versification—Weekly exercises. Original Latin Com-
position.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
38
UNIVERSITY OF NOTEE DAME.
IV.
Livy—Book XXII.
Latin Composition based on Livy.
Cicero—De Oratore, First Book.
Horace—Odes and Epodes continued. See Course III.
Practice in Latin Conversation.
Versification—Original exercises. Original Latin Com-
position.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
N.
Livy—Roman History, First Book. In the reading of
the text particular attention is called to the rules of
Syntax—roots and derivation of words—and to Ancient
History, Geography and Mythology.
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases
or original. Short fables and stories.
Horace—Epistola ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
'criticized from a Philological and Literary standpoint.
Three select Satires, First Book.
Ancient Literature—Historians and Lyric Poets: their
lives, their works, their genius.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VI.
Tacitus—Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
Terence—Andria. Sight reading.
Horace—The Literary Epistles and a few of the Moral
Satires.
Weekly practice in written Composition, Latin Con-
versation and Versification.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
Ancient Literature—Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VII.
Quintilian—De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth and
Twelfth. Translation. Explanation embraces a literary
criticism of Grecian and Roman Orators, and practical
remarks on Latin Idioms and the fine arts of Antiquity.
Short Orations or Dissertations, and practical Conver-
sations take place weekly.
Plautus—Captivi. The study of the play gives a full
knowledge of the Characters, the Plot and the Style, the
archaic Forms, and the Constructions peculiar to the
author.
Ancient Literature—Orators, especially Demosthenes
and Cicero.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VIII.
Cicero—De Officiis. Partly sight-reading. Besides the
study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of
Grecian Philosophy, and continual reference is made to
Course III. in Philosophy.
Oratorical and Philosophical Compositions alternate
weekly. Latin Conversation on general topics.
Lucretius—De Natura Rerum. Select passages. Synop-
sis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous
philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the
errors of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature—Philosophers, particularly Socra-
tes, Plato and Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
•	[Five hours a week for one term.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN ENGLISH.

(a)	Rhetoric—Detailed study of good use. Barbarisms,
Improprieties and Solecisms. Clearness, Force and Ease,
as effected by Choice, Number and Arrangement of words.
Detailed study of sentences, paragraphs and whole com-
positions, with critical analysis of selected models. Analy-
tical study of Descriptive Writing (scientific and artistic).
Narrative Writing, with special reference to the Short Story.
Expository Composition, with special reference to the Essay.
Argumentation; burden of proof; presumption ; methods;
forms and arrangement of argument; persuasion. During a
large part of the year the student is required to write a daily
theme. The text-book in use is Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric,
supplemented by lectures and notes by the Professor.
(b)	. Oratorical Composition—Invention: proofs, man-
ners, passions, topics; disposition; parts of the discourse;
oratorical amplification, briefs; analysis of orations. Ele-
ments of Logic with reference to Oratory.
(c)	Reading in Class—Spencer’s Philosophy of Style,
Gates’ Selections from Newman. British and American
Orations.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
[One theme a week in all classes below.]
(a)	English Prosody—Scansion, the old method and the
method by musical notation; rhythmical units—quantity,
accent, the phrase; blank verse, cadences, alliteration, metre,
rime, stanzas, French forms, sonnets, and other lyric forms.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
41
(b)	Dramatic Analysis—The parts of a tragedy; intro-
ductions, scenic passages, rising actions, climaxes, tragic
incidents, falling actions, catastrophes, forces, plots, under-
plots, characterization, nemesis, values, unity, probability,
completeness, etc. Comedy. Application to Shakesperian
plays and to the modern drama.
(c)	Shakespere—Reading with literary and dramatic
analysis of Macbeth, King John, Julius Caesar, King Rich-
ard III., Coriolanus, As You Like It, Twelfth Night, Much
Ado About Nothing. Hudson’s and the “Arden” texts are
used and the entire play is read in each case.
(d)	The History of English Literature up to Shake-
spere. A Handbook of English Literature, by Austin
Dobson, and Ward’s English Poets are used to direct this
course.
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
III.
(a)	The Laws of the Epic, of Prose Fiction, of the Lyric
and the Essay. Critical application of the laws to models.
(b)	Shakespere—Reading, etc., as in Course II. (c) of
A Winter’s Tale, Romeo and Juliet, King Henry IV.,
Part L, King Henry IV., Part IL, King Henry V., A
Midsummer Night’s> Dream, Anthony and Cleopatra.
(c)	History of English Literature from Shakespere to.
the nineteenth century. Models. Dobson and Ward
used as in Course II. (d).
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a)	Shakespere—Reading, etc., as in Course II. (c) of
King Lear, Hamlet, Othello, The Tempest, The Merchant of
Venice, Cy mb eline, King Henry VIII., King Richard IL
42
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
(b)	The Leading Poets and Prose Writers of the Nine-
teenth Century. Lectures.
(c)	Old English—An elementary course in Anglo-
Saxon grammar and reading. (This division of Course
IV. is elective.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Special Course in Theme Writing for Engineering and
Scientific students.
Courses in Elocution and Oratory.
I.
Readings and Declamations—This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Each
student will be required to give two declamations.
[Two hours a week for hr st term.]
II.
Continuation of Course I.—Each student will be re-
quired to give three declamations.
[Two hours a week for second term.]
III.
Practical Elocution—Exercises in breathing, voice-
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation and
emphasis and their application in the reading of selec-
tions. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s Practical Elo-
cution.
[Two hours a week for hr st term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
43
IV.
Continuation of Course III.—Further exercises in
breathing, voice-culture, and action. Quality, Force,
Pitch and Time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lec-
tures on the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and
Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
[Two hours a zveek for second term.}
V.
Oral Discussions—The application of Formal Logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and a
course in Logic are required for admission to this course.
It is limited to 24 students.
[Tzvo hours a zveek for hr st term.}
VI.
. Shakesperian Reading—The critical and artistic reading
of two of Shakespere’s plays accompanied with stage
action. The students present the play by scenes before
the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for admission
to this course. It is limited to 24 students, and alternates
with course VIL below.
[Two hours a week for second term.}
VII.
Oratory—A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Each student is required to write and
deliver a biographical oration on one of the great orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III. and
IV. above and course I. in English are required for ad-
mission to this course. It is limited to 24 students and
alternates with course VI. above.
[Tzvo hours a zveek for second term.}
44
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VIII.
Assembly Work—This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists of
debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptus and drill work in parliamentary law. Wed-
nesday from i to 3. One hour credit.
[Throughout the year.}
COURSES IN HISTORY.
I.
ANCIENT HISTORY.
(a)	Ancient Greece—To the conquest by Rome of the
Hellenic world. Readings, and examinations on required
texts. This course is given in an alternate year with
Course I. (b)„
[Four hours a week for one year.}
(b)	Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions. Read-
ings and examinations on required texts. This course is
given in an alternate year with Course I. (a).
In both courses, the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and to
study the same in De Coulanges’ The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for one year.}
II.
MEDIAEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY.
(a)	The History of the Middle Ages from the invasion
of the barbarians, and the history of the periods of the
Renaissance and the Reformation to 1603. Readings and
examinations on required texts.
[Three hours a week for one year.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
45
(b)	The General History of Europe from the beginning
of the 17th century to the present time. Readings and
examinations on required texts. '
[Three hours a week for one year.}
HI-	.
ENGLISH HISTORY.
The history of the British Isles to the Revolution of 1689
—Readings and examinations on required texts. The stu-
dent is required to obtain by directed reading and exam-
inations a special knowledge of the development of the
political institutions of Great B ritian, using Feilden’s
Constitutional History.
[Four hours a week for one year.}
IV.
AMERICAN HISTORY.
(a)	American History from its beginning to 1763—
Readings and examinations on required texts.
[One hour a zveek for one year.}
(b)	American History from 1763 to the present time—
Readings, lectures and examinations. There is first given
by lectures an outline of the political condition of the
Colonies under the Crown, the causes leading up to the
Revolution of 1776, the Revolution, the political status of
the States after Independence, the Confederation of 1781,
the causes leading to the formation of the Constitution,
and the Constitutional Convention. This is followed by a
thorough treatment of the political history of the United
States since 1789, using as an outline text, Johnson’s
American Politics.
[Three hours a week for one year.}
46
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE.
(a)
ECONOMICS.
I.	The Elements of Economics, viz.:—Land, Human
Exertions and Capital; Value, Money and Credit; Rent,
Interest, Profit and Wages; and Population and Consump-
tion. The text-book used is Walker’s Manual of Political
Economy.
[Four hours a zveek for five months.]
II.	Industrial History and the history of Economic
Thought. Readings, lectures and examinations on re-
quired texts.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
III.	Money, Credit and Banking, with special treat-
ment of the monetary experience of the United States.
Lectures, readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Three hours a week for five months.]
IV.	Distribution—A course covering the Land and
Labor Questions and Socialism. Lectures, readiness and
oz	J	O
examinations on required texts.
[Three hours a week for five months.]
(b)
POLITICS.
V.	The Elements of Politics—Lectures and examina-
tions on required texts.
[Two hours a week for five months.]
VI.	The American Constitution and Political Institu-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
47
tions. Lectures, readings, and examinations on required
texts.
[Two hours a week for five months.]
VII.	Jurisprudence—A course covering (a) The out-
lines of the Science of Law, (b) The elements of Interna-
tional Law, and (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman.
and Canon Law. Lectures, readings and examinations on
required texts.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
(c)
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
VIII.	The Elements of Sociology—Lectures, readings
and examinations on required texts.	•
[Two hours a week for five months.]
COURSE IN ROMANCE LANGUAGE.
&
This Course includes the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
Its principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal
special attention will be paid to Philology.
•	FRENCH COURSES.
I.
Houghton’s French by reading. Un Cas de Conscience.
Super’s Reading from French History.	•
[Five hours a week.]
48	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II.
French Composition. L’Avare. Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon. Le Roi des Montagnes. Picciola. Zola’s Le Reve.
[Two hours a week.]
III.
La Poudre aux Yeux. Athalie. Hernani. Les Confes-
sions d’un Ouvrier. Le Barbier de Seville. Le Malade
Imaginaire. Les Fourberies de Scapin. Pourceaugnac.
Les Facheux. L’Amour Medecin. Le Misanthrope. Cinna.
Polyeucte.
[Two hours a week.]
N. B.—The books used are not necessarily the same every year.
SPANISH COURSE.
A two years’ course. Besides the reading of Modern
Authors the masterpieces of Calderon de la Barca, Lope de
Vega, Cervantes, etc., will be particularly studied. An
optional course of Old Spanish preceded by the philology of
the language, enabling the students to better understand
the masterpieces of Old Spanish is also offered.
ITALIAN COURSE.
A two years’ course. The chief work of this course is a
critical study of Dante’s Divina Commedia. Reading from
Tasso, Petrarca, Ariosto’s Satires, Manzoni, etc.
PORTUGUESE COURSE.
One year course. Os Lusiadas will be specially studied.
OLD FRENCH.
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying the
formation of the French language from the popular Latin.
For this purpose a work like Bracket’s Grammaire
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	‘	49
Historique will be studied. It is under this point of view
that Old French authors will be read, especially La Chanson
de Roland.
PROVENCAL COURSE.
Language and literature, with reading from the works of
the Troubadours.
REMARK.
With the exception of French, no one will be accepted
for these courses unless he can satisfy the Professor of his
ability to read Latin at sight.
COURSES IN GERMAN.
I.
Grammar—Joynes-Meissner. Deutsches Lesebuch, Bone.
Themes—Original and imitation work.
[Five hours a week.}
n.
Special Course for students in the English and Scientific
Courses.
Grammar—J oynes-M eissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Three hours a week.}
III.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Three hours a week.}
50
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
I.
Algebra—This course includes a study of the binomial
theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance, var-
iables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
thorough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation, detached coefficients, surd and imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
equations. Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s theo-
rem ; Horner’s method; roots of complex number and
trigonometric solution of cubic equations.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
II.
Trigonometry, Plane and Spherical—Development of
general formulae; functions of a single angle; functions of
related angles; functions of sums and differences; func-
tions of double angles and half angles; functions of multi-
ple angles; changing the product of functions into the
sum of functions, and the sum of functions into the pro-
duct of functions; circular functions; development of
functions; transformations; solution of triangles; con-
struction and use of tables. The preceding work embraces
the general topics studied in the course of plane trigono-
metry. Additional exercises involving application of
theoretical principles are added by the instructor.
In Spherical Trigonometry are studied:—General prop-
erties of spherical triangles; solution of right and oblique-
spherical triangles; special methods involving application
of Napier’s rules and analogies, and Gauss’s equations
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
51
determination of species; spherical excess; area of spheri-
cal triangles; miscellaneous applications; astronomical
applications. This Course is supplemented by many
practical problems and exercises.
[Plane Trigonometry, five hours a week for twelve weeks.
Spherical Trigonometry, five hours a week for eight weeks.}
III.
Analytic Geometry—This Course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections, their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; higher plane
curves; equations of the third degree; different systems
of coordinates; transformation of coordinates ; spirals; an
elementary course in geometry of three dimensions, em-
bracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces of
revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric sur-
faces and supplementary propositions.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
IV.
Calculus, Differential—This Course, as also Course V.,
is designed to meet the requirements of Engineering stu-
dents. It includes a study of the methods for the dif-
ferentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonomteric functions; suc-
cessive differentiation and differential coefficients; treat-
ment of implicit and compound functions; expansion of
functions; indeterminate forms; partial differential coef-
ficients of the first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature; radius of curvature; envelopes; singular
points of curves; maxima and minima of functions of
one independent variable, and of several independent
variables; tracing curves, differentials of arcs, plane
areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
52
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Calculus, Integral—Integration of elementary forms
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalization
and by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals;
definite integration and the constants of integration; in-
tegration between limits; disposing of the constant of
integration; double integration applied to plane areas;
rectification of plane curves; quadratures of plane areas
and surfaces of revolution; surface and volume of any
solid; intrinsic equation of a curve. This Course is sup-
plemented by numerous exercises and examples. .
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Elective Work—The prescribed Courses in Pure Mathe-
matics are I. to V. inclusive. The following advanced
Courses are offered, based on standard authors. The text-
books are not necessarily the same every year. The num-
ber of students necessary to constitute a class in any one
subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Chrystal,
(b) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock,
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Differential Equa-
tions, Elementary Course, Murray, (f) Advanced Cal-
culus, Byerly, 'Todhunter, Williamson, (g) Advanced
Analtytic Geometry, Salmon, (h) Analytic Geometry of
Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (i) Quaternions,
Hardy, with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
53
COURSES IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
I.
Descriptive Geometry—In this Course are considered
problems on the point,right line, and plane;single curved,
double curved, and warped surfaces; problems relating to.
tangent planes to single curved, double curved, and
warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces by planes; tan-
gencies; development of surfaces; spherical projections;
orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylindrical, and
conic projections; construction of maps, shades and
shadows; linear perspective; isometric projections; theory
and plates. Numerous practical problems and exercises
requiring the application of the principles of Descriptive
Geometry are added by the instructor.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying—This Course comprises the whole theory of
land surveying and levelling; the use and adjustment of
the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods of
measuring; relocation of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions ; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land; divid-
ing up land; Public Lands survey.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Surveying—Field practice and application of theory;
adjustments and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field the theory of which is taught in
54
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
the class-room; practice in keeping field notes; computa-
tions and plots.
[Four hours a week for the spring term.}
IV.
Higher Surveying—This Course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment,use,and care of all kinds of Engi-
neering instruments; problems pertaining to solar attach-
ment ; topographical surveying with the transit and stadia;
mining surveying; mining claims; survey of mines with
shafts and drifts determining positions of ends of tunnels,
and depths below surface; theory of hydrographic and city
surveying; geodetic surveying and levelling; measuring
base lines;adjustments of angles, triangles, and quadrilat-
erals ; latitude and azimuth ; time and longitude; changing
mean time into sidereal time and sidereal time to mean
time.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
Surveying—Exercises in the field in the adjustments
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the field; levelling, practice in hydro-
graphic surveying.
[Four hours a week for the spring term.}
VI.
Railroad Surveying—This Course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary sur-
vey for a railroad; theory of maximum economy in grades
and curves; location of curves by .deflection angles and
offsets; obstacles to location of curves; special problems
in curves; theory of compound curves; turnouts and
crossings; compound transition curves; cubic parabola.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
55
curving the rail on curves and elevation of outer rail;
easing grades on curves; vertical curves; earthwork, and
prismoidal formula; theory of excavation and embankment;
correction in excavation on curves; cross-sectioning.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VII.
Railroad Surveying—Exercises in the field; staking out
and running tangents, simple, compound and transition
curves; execution on the ground of many problems previ-
ously treated theoretically; survey for a short line of rail-
road, levelling, cross-sectioning, and setting slope stakes ;
making profiles and maps; calculating the necessary
excavations and embankments and cost of construction;
culverts.
[Four hours a zveek for one term.}
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics—The aim of this course is to pre-
pare students of Engineering for the study of the courses
of Applied Mechanics. The course comprises a study of
the fundamental princples of Statics, Kinematics, and
Kinetics. The subjects selected are studied with the
object of thoroughly preparing the engineering students
to pursue the technical and practical branches of their
respective courses. Some of the topics considered in this
course are: work, energy, conservation of energy; power,
composition and resolution of forces, centre of gravity,
centre of mass, moment of inertia, acceleration, dynamics
of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
IX.
Mechanics of Materials—This course is intended to
meet the requirements of Engineering students, and to
56
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
prepare them by a study of the action and effect of forces
on beams and structures to design economically and intel-
ligently the parts entering into a complete structure. The
course comprises a study, according to the latest and most
approved methods, of tension and its effect on materials,
compression, theories of flexure and rupture from trans-
verse stress, shearing stress, transverse strength, beams
of uniform resistance, various forms, and loaded in anv
manner, design and strength of beams and columns, effect
of long continued strains, and repeated strains, factor of
safety and working stresses, strength of pipes and cylin-
ders, theory and practice of riveting, torsion, transmis-
sion of power by shafts, continuous girders, equation of
curves of deflection, theorem of three moments, moment
at any support, etc.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
X.
Bridges and Roofs—This Course comprises a study of
the different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses,
and the calculation of the strains produced when loaded in
any manner, the weight of the structure and the effect of
wind included. Both graphical and anaytical methods are
used. Besides the various systems of trussed bridges,
which are studied in detail, the plate girders, suspension
bridges, cantilever bridges, draw bridges, and roofs of
various designs are given equal attention; the purpose
being to familiarize the student with the different forms
and to enable him to design and to estimate the cost of
construction.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
XI.
Graphical Statics—This Course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
57
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centres of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically determ-
ined by the application of the principals of the force and
equilibrium polygons; as also stresses in bridge and roof
trusses; graphical treatment of the arch, symmetrical and
unsymmetrical cases; graphical method for arch-ribs of
hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams; tempera-
ture stresses; braced arches; graphics applied to continu-
ous girders. This Course is supplemented by full expla-
nations, notes, examples, and problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering—This Course is taken by students of Civil
Engineering in the Senior Year, and teaches the principles
of the science of Civil Engineering and the most approved
methods of constructing engineering works, such as piers,
abutments, foundations, coffer dams, reservoir walls; in-
struction as to the types of structures suitable for differ-
ent localities; economy of construction and framing;
properties of building materials, as wood, stone, cement,
brick, iron; methods of testing, methods of preparation,
preservation and cost; construction of masonry arches,
tunnels, sewers, highways, and city streets; discussion of
framed structures of different types; river and harbor im-
provements ; canals; seacoast defences.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering—This Course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of sewage
in populous districts; shape material and calculation of
sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation; separate
and combined systems compared; pollution of rivers;
58
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
chemical precipitation; results and cost of purification;
general muncipal and domestic sanitation; inspection of
neighboring works.
[Two hours a week for one term.}
XIV.
Stereotomy—This Course comprises a study of the ap-
plication of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to the
determination of the forms and sizes of the stones used in
the construction of the different classes of arches and
masonry structures. This Course is given by lectures in
the Drawing Room, explaining the construction of tem-
plets, and use of directing instrument; also explanations
of methods of drawing plans, elevations, and develop-
ments of oblique arches, wing wall and the like. A certain
number of plates and drawings is required, illustrating
the methods of performing practical work.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Hydromechanics—This Course is a thorough study of
the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrodynamics,
to which are added many practical exercises. The sub-
jects considered are the transmissions of pressures, centre
of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of various
shapes; fluid friction; Bernoulli’s theorem with friction;
Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over weirs, and
through tubes; flow in pipes; loss of head in friction and
other losses; flow in conduits, canals, and rivers; veloci-
ties in cross section; methods of gauging the flow; meas-
urement of water power; dynamic pressure of flowing
water; designing of waterworks and standpipes; hydrau-
lic motors and relative merits; dynamics of gaseous fluids,
flow through orifices by water formula; with isothermal
expansion; with adiabatic expansion.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
59
XVI.
Geodesy—This is an elementary Course prescribed for
Civil Engineering students in the Junior Year, and com-
prises a study of the instruments and methods of observa-
tion ; base measurements and field work of the triangula-
tion ; method of least squares, elementary course; calcula-
tion of the triangulation, and theory of probable errors;
geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is
followed by a brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
[Four hours a week for one term.}
60
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSE IN ASTRONOMY.
I.
Astronomy—Descriptive and Practical. This Course
comprises a study of astronomical instruments, their use
and adjustment, and methods of observation; problems of
finding time, latitude^ and longitude; observatory prac-
tice ; methods of finding the form, size, mass, and density
of the earth; earth’s orbital motion; equation of time; pre-
cession, nutation, aberration, and parallax; general de-
scription of the sun; description of eclipses and computa-
tion ; planetary orbits and computation; problem of two.
bodies; problem of three bodies; disturbing forces;
methods of determining the diameters, masses, densities,
times of rotation of the planets, determination of the
sun’s horizontal parallax and distance, various methods;
description of comets, meteors, nebulae, and.fixed stars;,
cosmogony and the nebular hypothesis.
[Three hours a week for two terms.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	61
COURSES IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
1
I.
Thermodynamics—First term is given to a theoretical
study of the steam engine, gas engine, and other heat motors
involving the laws of thermodynamics of gases, saturated
vapors and superheated steam. During the second term the
applications of the studies of the previous term are dwelt
upon and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refrigerat-
ing machinery, boilers, pumps and hydraulic machinery are
studied in detail. Frequent reference is made to trade cata-
logues, of which an adequate supply should be obtained by
the student. The text-book used is Thurston's The Steam
Engine.
o
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
II.
Materials of Engineerings—This Course, supplemented
by shopwork and laboratory work in testing materials of
construction, is designed with the purpose of acquainting
the student with the properties of the materials he will use
in his profession. Tensile and shearing strength, elasticity
and resistance are studied, together with the effects of
strain, intermittent loading and impact. The process of
manufacture of the most important materials is taken up
and estimates of the cost of construction at the market prices
complete the work. Thurston’s Materials of Engineering is
the text-book used.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.
Steam Engine Design—In this Course the forms and sizes
of steam engines, computation of dimensions and advantages
and adaptation of special forms of engines for specific work
are taken up which give the student a thorough knowledge
of constructive detail. The latest researches and contempo-
rary practice may be consulted in the numerous publications
found in the University Library. During the first term of
the Senior Year is required the complete design with work-
ing drawings of a simple non-condensing steam engine for
a specific purpose. The second term is given to designing a
multiple expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine
service. The text-book used is Whiteham’s Steam Engine
Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers—This subject is treated much as that of
the steam engine. The determination of sizes of parts from
consideration of strains, thickness of shells, size of rivets,
braces, furnaces and proper methods of connection of boilers
with efficiency of furnace and life of boiler, are some of the
subjects considered. The method of determining the effic-
iency of fuels, heating surface, heights of chimneys, boiler
mountings, and materials used in construction are also
discussed.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
Kinematics—This Course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining of
the parts to move in these paths. The general theory is
then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative motion of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
63
machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys, speed
cones, link work and other aggregate combinations. Barr’s
Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book used.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Machine Design—This work involves a study of the form
and strength of machine parts as applied in designing with
computation of dimensions for fastenings, bearings, rotating
pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc. The derivation of
rational formulae and the determination of empirical formulae
are included and applied in designing. The text-book used
is Unwin’s Elements of Machine Design.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Valve Gears—This Course includes a complete study of
the Zeuner diagram as applied to slide valves and the princi-
pal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears, such as
Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are treated in the
same way and in conclusion the student is made familiar
with the various types of Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics
and link motions. The text-book is Spangler’s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory—The work taken up includes a
study of the methods of testing the steam engine under vary-
ing running conditions, valve setting, calibration of ther-
mometers, gauges and indicator springs, use of Prony brake,
Weber and Emerson dynamometers, Pelton water wheel,
Wier calibration, etc. Text-book, Carpenter’s Experimental
Engineering.
o	o
[One afternoon each week for one term.]
64
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IX.
Thesis—Each candidate for a degree in this department
must present for graduation a thesis of considerable mag-
nitude which will exhibit his knowledge of the course he
has followed. It may embrace designing, experimental
investigation or original research in a subject selected by
the student and approved by the Professor. The major
part of the second term, Senior Year, is devoted to the
work and graduation is conditional upon the knowledge of
Mechanical Engineering displayed in its preparation.
STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
A briefer course in the study of boilers and steam
engines designed to familarize the student with the dif-
ferent types in use and their respective merits. Only
that theory is taken up which is necessary to the working
out of practical problems. The ultimate object of the
course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves with
an abundant supply of trade catalogues.
[Twelve hours a week for one term.]
X.
SHOPWORK.
(si) Woodwork—Exercises in planing, sawing, splic-
ing, framing, scroll-sawing and turning.
[Five hours a week for second term, Freshman Year.]
(b)	Applications of Carpentry to pattern-making, cores,
etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints, cranks and
bearings.
■	[Four hours a week for one term.]
(c)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
65
(d)	Benchwork in iron, including surface chipping,
key-setting, draw-filing, scraping and polishing.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
(e)	Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shaping and mill-
ing machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers,
taps, twist-drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
COURSES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Applied Electricity—A course of lectures and recita-
'tions, supplemented by laboratory practice, on the
'general theory of electricity and magnetism and its ap-
plication to practical work, as follows: Setting up and
testing primary and secondary batteries, systems of call
bells, electric gas lighting appliances, fire and burglar
.alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switchboards and
accessories.
Experiments with induction coils, magnets, switches,
■voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges, galvano-
meters and other measuring instruments. The study of
•direct current generators and motors, arc and incandes-
■cent lighting systems, street railway machinery and ap-
pliances, electric heating and forging, electrolytic pro-
■cesses, etc.
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
II.
Applied Electricity—Lectures and laboratory work on
the construction and testing of switches, magnets, meas-
uring instruments, induction coils, etc. The calculation
0
66
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of sizes of wire and location of circuits for lighting and
power, the experimental study of alternating current
machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his shopwork he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with the rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency and adaptability to
special purposes. This Course must be preceded by
Course I. Both I. and II. are required in the Short
Course in Electrical Engineering; they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy.
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
III.
Electricity and Magnetism—The relations of currents to
magnetism, magnetic units, permeability, hysteresis and
other magnetic phenomena, solution of problems. Recita-
tions and lectures. Text-book, Ewing’s Magnetic Induction.
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
IV.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery—Recitations on the physi-
ical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions and
reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points, theory
of armature winding, the mathematical theory of alternat-
ing currents, phase relations, modern forms of single
phase and multiphase generators and motors, design of
transformers.
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
V.
Electrical Laboratory—Practical work at wiring build-
ings for lights and power, testing circuits for insulation
and grounds, construction and operation of storage bat-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
67
teries, management and care of dynamos, characteristic
curves of particular machines under different conditions,
efficiency tests of motors by absorption dynamometer
methods, alternating current dynamo and transformer
tests, the testing of storage batteries, and complete plant-
efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken. This course is
supplementary to Course IV. and both must be preceded
by Course III.
[Five credit hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Drawing—The designing and making of working draw-
ings of switches, resistance, and other electrical appar-
atus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits
for lighting buildings. Complete drawings of direct and
alternating current dynamos. Laying out plants for
power and lighting.
[Three credit hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ARCHITECTURE.
I.
History of Architecture—Lectures on Egyptian, Greek,
Roman, Byzantine, Gothic and Renaissance styles.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Architectural Designing—Drawing and rendering in
pen and ink and water colors of the elements employed
in Classical and Renaissance design. The principles of
planning and composition. Monumental structures.
Problems in design involving the use of the classic orders,
the Gothic, and Renaissance style. Interior decorations.
[Ten hours a zveek for two terms.]
>68
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.
Specifications and Contracts—Lectures and practice in
the preparation of specifications and contracts for archi-
tectural structures.
[Two hours a week for one term.}
IV.
Photography—Lectures on lenses, the camera, and the
manipulation of dry plates. Practice in exposing, develop-
ing and printing. Copying, enlarging. Making of lantern
slides.
[Two hours a week for one term. Laboratory fee, $io.\
For references to the drawing and mathematical courses see pages 69, 48, etc.
Courses in Artistic Drawing and Painting.
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough founda-
tion in drawing and painting for those that wish to make
art a profession, but the courses are so arranged as to be
accessible to other students. The system of teaching
which, is that followed in the best art schools, is intended
to develop the individuality of each student, so that with
a good understanding of the principles of art he may
interpret nature according to his own temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, object, and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer
many beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes, and
the classes are taken out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new one,
which was carefully selected at the National School of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
69-
Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded direct-
ly from the originals. The collection is as follows :
Full Figure—The Diadumenos (British Museum) ; the
Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically: The
Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michelange-
lo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre), and
Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads—Asiaticus (Paris) ; Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol) ; Cato (Rome, the Vatican) ; Cicero (Rome,
the Capitol) ; Dante (Florence, Uffizi) ; Agrippa (Lou-
vre) ; Venus (Vatican); A Centurion (Naples) ; Ariadne
(the Capitol) ; Psyche of Naples (Naples) ; a Vestal
(Vatican) ; Niobe (Vatican) ; the Two Daughters of
Niobe (Florence).
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides, there is a complete set of decorative and archi-
tectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity,,
the middle ages and the Renaissance, and of elements of
O	7
the human figure (hands, feet, etc.) from the antique, and
some anatomical pieces.
COURSE I.
Elementary Class.
(a)	Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geometri-
cal, such as moldings, ovoloes, dentels, etc. Sketching
from simple objects.
(b)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from natural leaves and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as pedes-
tals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on perspective^
direction of the principal lines in relation to the horizon.
Elementary notions on the five orders of architecture.
70
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure: hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching from
familiar objects.
COURSE II.
Antique Class.
(a)	Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape. Appli-
cations of perspective.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching from
the costumed model. Still life in water colors. History
of art.
COURSE III.
Life Class.
(a)	Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy. Anatomical
studies from the collections of Science Hall. Still life
painting in water colors and oil. Landscape painting.
Drawing for illustration.
(b)	Painting from life. Portraiture. Historical compo-
sition.
Sketch Class—One hour a week. This class is open also
to the students in the Mechanical Drawing classes. The
students have themselves an organization, “The Crayon
Club,” the object of which is to sketch College scenes and
to do illustrative work: these sketches are brought into
class and criticised.
Class of Decorative Design—The object of this depart-
ment is to prepare students for professional work in deco-
rative designings of all kinds. They will take up the study
of historical ornaments and will be taught the general
principles of the arrangement of design, and from personal
sketches of plants and flowers will be shown the art of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
71
making original designs for wall paper, book covers,
stained glass, carpets, interior decorations, metal plates,
etc. No particular programme is given out as the teach-
ing is purely individual.
COURSES IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.
&
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may be
trained in Outline Drawing in pencil and pen. Then fol-
lows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the
use of instruments is taken up. A large drawing hall for
advanced students in the engineering courses is on the
second floor of the Engineering building. Beginning with
the instruments, attention is given to accurate draught-
manship upon plates, illustrating problems in Civil, Elec-
trical and Mechanical Engineering. This work is con-
tinued throughout the Courses.
I.
Freehand—The work consists of sketching with pencil
and pen from flat copies and models of machine parts and
freehand lettering. Later in the term, the use of instru-
ments, section-lining and lettering are taught., Text-book,
Thorne’s Junior Course of Mechanical Drawing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing—The work embraces the principles
of projections, methods of shop-drawing, tinting, tracing,
blue printing,line-shading and the preparation of working
72
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
drawings of complete machines. Text-books, Thorne’s
Intermediate Mechanical Drawing, and Low and Bevis’
Manual of Machine Drawing and Design. This Course
must be preceded by Course I.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry—A series of accurate plates are
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections,shades and shadows, perspective and
isometric projections. Text-book, Hal.
[One hour a week for first term, and two hours a week for
second term.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing—Designing of cams and gear teeth,
complete working drawings of machines involving the ap-
plication of kinematics and the computation of dimesions..
Reference-book, Low and Bevis’ Manual of Machine Draw-
ing and Design.
O	o
.	[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography—Pen and colored topographical drawing,
conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken from
surveys. This Course must be preceded by Course I.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Masonry—Drawing and designing plans, elevations and
sections of masonry constructions, foundations, dams,
piers, abutments, culverts and arches.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
73
VII.
Bridge Designing—Proceeding from simple framed
girders to complete bridge-trusses of various designs.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings.
[Four hours a week for two terms.}
VIII.
Freehand—The principles of freehand drawing in pencil
and pen from objects, and later from biological specimens,
plants, animals and microscopical preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Freehand—Advanced drawing from plants and anatom-
ical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
74
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.
I.
(a)	General Chemistry—A minor Course dealing with
the general principles of the science and embracing a study
of only the commoner elements and their typical com-
pounds. Text-book, Remsen's Elements of Chemistry.
[Four hours a week for one term.}
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the laboratory the
work of the Lecture Course (a) and designed to accom-
pany it.
[Two laboratory periods a week for one term.}
II.
(c) General Descriptive Chemistry—Recitations, expe-
rimental lectures and laboratory work treating of the fun-
damental principles of chemistry, and designed to meet
the requirements of the students of the Engineering
Course. Text-book, Remsen's Briefer Course.
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
III.
(d)	Advanced Inorganic Chemistry—For Biological and
General Science students. Lectures and recitations. A com-
plete study of the elements and their most important com-
pounds, following the classification based on Mendeleeff’s
Law, and including a thorough discussion of the theories
of the science. Careful attention is given to the technical
chemical processes and industries, and to the writing of
chemical reactions. Text-book Newth's Inorganic Chem-
istry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
(e)	Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course (d) the work consisting of the prepara-
tion by the student, of the elements and their more typical
compounds, determination of molecular weights, verification
of the fundamental laws of chemistry, etc. During the
latter part of the Course, special attention is given to the
characteristic reactions of the metals and to the principles
of chemical analysis. Thorp.
[Two laboratory periods a week, with discussion, for two
terms. ]
IV.
Qualitative Analysis—The work of this Course com-
prises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions involved
in the separation and detection of the more common inor-
ganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of salts,
and complex substances such as earths, ores, ashes, etc.
Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by lectures.
[Five laboratory periods a week, with recitation, for one
term. ]
V.
Quantitative Analysis—A laboratory study of the prin-
ciples involved in the quantitative separation and estima-
tion of substances, both gravimetrically and volumetri-
cally. Complete analysis of a number of simple salts like
Barium Chloride, with partial analysis of substances such
as steel, lye, drinking-water, etc. Reference-book,
Fresenius.
[Five laboratory periods a week, with recitation, for one
term. ]
VI.
(f)	Organic Chemistry—Lectures and recitations. A
systematic study of the compounds of Carbon by the student
and the investigation of their properties. This Course may
7G
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
be taken without the accompanying Laboratory work. Text-
book, Remsen.
[Five hours for one term.}
(g)	Experimental Organic Chemistry—A Course fitted
to accompany Course (f), involving the preparation by the
student in the laboratory of the more important and typical
organic compounds and the investigation of their properties.
Ultimate organic analysis. Text-book, Gattermann.
[Five laboratory periods for one term.}
VII.
Urinary Analysis and Toxicology—A Course of labora-
tory exercises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of the urine, and of the
alkaloids and principal organic poisons. Text-book,.
S chimp f.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis—An advanced course,,
intended for students of General Science specializing in
chemistry. Special courses in gas analysis, water analysis,
sugar analysis, commercial organic analysis, etc., at the-
option of the student.
[Five to -fifteen laboratory periods a week for both terms.]
IX.
Organic Chemistry—Chiefly laboratory work. An ad-
vanced course, intended for General Science students,
specializing in chemistry.
[Ten to fifteen laboratory periods a week for both terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	77
COURSES IN PHYSICS.
I.
Physics—A complete Course of recitations and lectures,
including mechanics, heat, -sound, light, electricity, and
magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experiments.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
II.
General Physics—In this course there is a more ex-
tended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to physical
phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy in the
mathematical work and in the statements of the principles
involved. Lectures and recitations.
[Three hours a week for tzuo terms.]
III.
Physical Laboratory—Manipulation of apparatus.
Length, mass and time measurements. Elementary work
in density, elasticity, heat, light, and sound. The student
is taught to depend on his own resources and to use the
reference library. Careful notes are required of all experi-
ments performed.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory—Special advanced work .in heat,
light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism. Ac-
curacy in observations and in the calculation and record-
ing of results is required. Students may specialize here
according to the college course which they are following.
This Course must be preceded by Courses II. and III. For
list of apparatus see page 14.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
78	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN BOTANY,
i.
Botany—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory work. A
study of the morphology of the root, stem, leaf, flower,
fruit, and seed. The development of the embryo and the
processes of pollination and fertilization. Microscopic
study of the vegetable cell, of its products, of cell formation,
and of plant tissues. Simple experiments demonstrating
various physiological phenomena. The structure and repro-
duction of the Algse, Fungi, Mosses and Ferns. The analysis
of Phanerogams occupies the time during the spring months,
and the student is made familiar with the local flora. Text-
books, Bastin’s College Botany and Gray’s Manual.
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
II.
Botanical Laboratory—Supplementary to Course I.
Special work on the Thallophyta and Bryophyta. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the student
that he may become more familiar with their morphology,
structure, etc. This course is to accompany or be preceded
by Course I.
[Two hours a week for one term.}
III.
Botany—Lectures, recitation, and laboratory work. The
work in this course is essentially the same as that laid out
in Vine’s text-book of Botany. Special work is required
in one particular group of plants. Herbarium study is
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
79
encouraged as well as the collecting and preparing of plants
for preservation. During the spring months frequent excur-
sions are made into the neighboring fields and woods and
the local aquatic and land flora are collected and studied.
[Ten hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ZOOLOGY,
I.
Zoology—Lectures and recitations. General ideas on
the animal kingdom. Animals and plants defined. The
homology and analogy between the organs and parts of
animals. The morphology, classification, structure, develop-
ment and relationship of the types of vertebrates and
invertebrates. Text-book, Nicholson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Laboratory—Supplementary to Course I., chiefly inver-
tebrate work, including a study of microscopic forms of
the Protozoa and Coelenterata. Work in Entomology, etc.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Invertebrate Zoology—Lectures, recitations, and labora-
tory work. In this course there is a more extended treat-
ment of Invertebrates. Dissection of the different types of
the higher forms. Careful notes and drawings are made
from these dissections. The use of the Reference Library.
The student begins to do research-work in this course.
80
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Opportunity is given to carry on systematic work on the
different groups contained in the University Museum.
[Six hours a week for one term.}
IV.
Comparative Vertebrate Anatomy—Lectures and labor-
atory work. This course consists of a thorough study and
classification of types of each of the five classes of verte-
brates accompanied by dissections. Special attention is
given to Osteology and comparisons are made between the
bones of skeletons representing each order of the vertebrates.
Opportunities are given for practical work in mounting the
skeletons of different animals.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
V.
Mammalian Anatomy—This course has been provided
for students preparing themselves for a medical course.
The work consists of demonstrations and thorough dissec-
tions on the anatomy of the cat.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VI.
Comparative Embryology—Lectures and laboratory
work. A study of the developmental history of inverte-
brates,- including a comparison of the germ-cell and
sperm-cell in different types of animals. The maturation
and fertilization of the ovum. Mitosis and segmentation.
The development of the Ectoderm, Mesoderm, and Endo-
derm compared- in the types of invertebrates, differentia-
tion of tissues, development of the embryo, etc. Special
work on the embryology of a vertebrate—Fish.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
81
COURSES IN GENERAL BIOLOGY.
I.
Cytology—Lectures and laboratory work. History of
the cell, cell structure, organization, activity, and mitosis.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
II.
General Biology—Lectures and laboratory work. The
forms of animals and plants compared as to structure,
function, and relationship of parts. Animal and plant
dissection. Biogenesis and Abiogenesis, Homogenesis and
Heterogenesis. The alternation of generation in different
forms of animals and plants worked out. The theories of
evolution are discussed in this course. Text-book, Parker.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN PHARMACY.
I.
Elements of Pharmacy—Lectures, recitations and dem-
onstrations, on the “Art and Science of Pharmacy,”
embracing its history, review of the important Pharma-
copoeias, Dispensatories, and Formularies; their value
compared and discussed. A course follows for the re-
mainder of the year, on the principles and the various
82
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
processes governing the practice of Pharmacy. Text-
book Coblentz’s Handbook of Pharmacy.
[Five hours a week, for one year.}
II.
Galenical Pharmacy—A Laboratory Course to accom-
pany Course I. This includes the practical application of
Pharmaceutical processes to the manufacture of official
preparations of the U. S. Pharmacopoea. Text-book,
U. S. Pharmacopoea,.
[Five hours a week, the first year.}
III.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry—In this course, the
Chemical bases and their compounds are considered, with
special reference to their importance in Pharmacy and
Materia Medica. Text-book, Sadtlers’ and Trimbles Phar-
maceutical Chemistry.
[Three hours a week, the second year.}
IV.
Laboratory of Inorganic Pharmacy—In the second year
there is a thorough course in the preparation of Pharmaceu-
tical and Technical Chemicals. This course is supplemented
by a series of lectures, on the selected methods. Text-book,
Oldberg’s Manual of Inorganic Preparations.
[Three hours a week, for six months.}
General Pharmacy—A systematic classification of or-
ganic and inorganic drugs, from the pharmaceutical
stand-point, followed by a close study of each of the
classes. Text-book, Coblentz’s Handbook of Pharmacy.
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
83
VI.
Magistral Pharmacy—Includes the manifold methods of
Dispensing Pharmacy, with special consideration of incom-
patibility, posology, and the principles of Elegant Pharmacy.
Text-book, Scovilles’ The Art of Dispensing.
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
VII.
(i)	Materia Medica, Pharmacognosy and Therapeutics
' —A detailed consideration of medicinal substances; their
origin and composition.
(2)	Therapeutics—The action of each drug will be
considered according to it grouping.
(3)	Pharmacognosy—Includes the identification of each
drug according to its physical properties, with special
reference to its quality. Text-books: (1) Sayres’ Materia
Medica. (2) Professor’s Notes on Therapeutics. (3) Rusby
and Jeilifee’s Essentials of Pharmacognosy.
[Two hours a week for two years.}
VIII.
Pharmaceutical Anlysis—Includes Pharmaceutical As-
saying, Pharmacopoeial Limitations, Alkaloidal Analysis,
Bacteriological, Micro-chemical, Polariscopic and Spectro-
scopic Estimations, Technical Analysis of Compounds used
in the arts, Toxicology, Urinalysis, Food Analysis and
Forensic Pharmacy. Text-books, Muler’s Analytical
Chemistry, Stanislaus, Scheme in Uranalysis.
84
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN MICROSCOPY.
I.
Microscopy—Lectures and laboratory work. Refraction
and dispersion of light and illumination. The index of
refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for
advanced work: immersion and adjustable objectives, camera
lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers, etc.
Special work in photo-micrography.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
II.
Micro-Chemistry—Laboratory work. The preparation
of micro-chemical reagents and their application in test-
ing, fixing, hardening, staining, clearing, and mounting
tissues and organs.
[One hour a week for one term.]-

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
85
COURSES IN HUMAN ANATOMY.
i.
Human Histology—Laboratory work and demonstra-
tions. Introductory work on the manipulation of the
microscope. Prepared tissues of the organs of the human
body given to each student, and their structure demonstrated.
[Two hours a week for one term.}
II.
Human Histology—Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work. Methods of hardening, staining, embedding, section
cutting and mounting of animal tissues. Careful work on
the nervous system—brain and spinal cord, termination of
nerve fibres, etc. Drawings made from each preparation.
Text-book, Schafer.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
III.
Human Anatomy—Lectures and recitations. Osteology
and descriptive anatomy of the muscular, digestive, circu-
latory and nervous systems.
[Two hours a zveek for four terms.}
86
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY.
I.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and demonstrations
with the stereopticon. The study of the human skeleton
including the physiology and hygiene of the bones. The
action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles. The
digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demonstrated
by models and charts. The anatomy and structure of the
nervous system and simple experiments on the same.
Text-book, Martin.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
II.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and experimental
work. A more extended treatment of Course I. on alimen-
tation, deglutition, stomach and intestinal digestion,
action of bile and pancreatic juice, absorption, properties
of lymph and chyle, secretion, excretion, animal heat and
its sources. The physiological divisions and structure of
o
the nervous system. Motor and sensory nerves. Physio-
logical anatomy of the spinal cord. General arrangement
and function of the sympathetic system, etc.
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
III.
Hygiene—Lectures on personal, domestic and munici-
pal hygiene.
LOne hour a week for one term.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
COURSES IN BACTERIOLOGY.
&
I.
Lectures and Laboratory Work—Lectures on the form,
classification, structure and reproduction of bacteria. The
relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The principles of ster-
ilization are pointed out. Isolation and identification of
pathogenic germs form a large part of the work. Emphasis
given to the detection of pathogenic germs by the various
staining processes. The early part of the laboratory work
is occupied in the preparation of the various culture-media
and the growth of certain non-pathogenic forms on these
media. Inoculations of animals with pathogenic germs and
effects observed. Text-book, Abbott.
[Three hours a week for one term.\
88
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN GEOLOGY-
I.
Mineralogy—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory and
museum in the determination of minerals, especially the
ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Collins.
[Two hours a week for one term.}
IL
Assaying—Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assaying
of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.}
III.
Geology—Lectures and recitations. The study of the
general features of the earth. The material composing
the accessible parts of the earth. The arrangement of the
material in rocks. The causes of geological changes. The
history of the earth and the various forms of life that
existed in the different periods of successive geological
ages. Text-book, Dana.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
89
COURSES IN MUSIC.
FIRST YEAR.
I.
Violin—Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte — Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reniecke and Mo-
zart. Jugend album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
III.
Voice-Production—Tone-placing. Diaphragmatic breath-
control. Articulation. Text-books: Shakespere’s Art of
Singing. Part L; Kofler’s Art of Breathing, Studies by
Bassini: English Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading—Elementary theory of Music.
Intervals, and Ear-Training. Choir Practice.
IV.
Organ—Rink’s Organ School. Eugene Thayer’s Studies,
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR.
la.
Violin—Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont, Sonatas
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven and Mozart.
Ha.
Pianoforte—Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert, Le-
90
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
couppy, Cramer and Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s Preludes, Fuges and Inventions. Sonatas and
Pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann and Schubert.
Illa.
Voice-Production — Advanced Breathing Exercises.
Study of the Chest and Falsetto registers. Stroke of the
Glottis. Text-Books: Shakespeare’s Art of Singing Parts
11. and 111.; Studies from Italian Operas; French and
English Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading—Phrasing, punctuation and ad-
vanced study. Practice in Operatic Chorus-work.
IVa.
Organ—Schneider-Warren’s Pedal Studies. Easy sonatas
by Mendelssohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes and
Fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.
Harmony—Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
ization of melodies. Harmonizing from figured bass. Text-
books : Gcetschius’ Tone Relations, Logier’s Harmony.
THIRD YEAR.
Ib.
Violin—Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-Alard,
Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr, Vieuxtemps,
Mendelssohn, Dvorak.
lib.
Pianoforte—Gradus ad Parnassum, Clementi-Tausig.
Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and French
Suites by Bach. Etudes by Haberbier and Henselt.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
91
Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven, Weber, Men-
delssohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
Illb.
Voice-Production—Study of the Trill, Mordent, Grup-
petto, etc. Messa di Voce.
IVb.
Organ—Sonatas, Preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by Bach.
Concert Pieces by Hasndel, Merkel, Salome, Whiting, Best,
Rheinberger.
Va.
Harmony—(Counterpoint.) Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon.
Fugue.
FOURTH YEAR.
Ic.
Violin—Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces by
Beethoven, Brahms, Bruch, Joachim and others.
lie.
Pianoforte—Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos, and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
IIIc.
Organ—The greater Preludes, Fantasies and Fugues of
Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor, Dubois,
Guilment and Saint-Saens.
IVb.
Harmony—(Composition). Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the Sonata, Rondo, etc. Practical application
in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
92
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Instruction is also given on the Viola, Flute, Piccolo,
Cornet, Trombone, Guitar and Mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of playing
in the University Orchestra and Band.
THE SINGING CLASS.
There is an organization of musical students open to those
only taking lessons in vocal music; the choir is selected from
the members of this class.
REQUIREMENTS FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF MUSIC.
£
I.	The candidate must have studied music in the
University during the last year of his course.
2.	He must have a thorough theoretic knowledge of
four instruments mentioned in the courses described above,
and a practical mastery of one of them.
3.	He must pass a written examination in Harmony,
Counterpoint and Composition.
4.	He must submit to the examiner two original compo-
sitions: (a) a fugu'e for full orchestra, or for four voices
with independent orchestral accompaniment; (b) a composi-
tion in the free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a
trio (pianoforte, violin and violincello.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY.
All Catholic Students are obliged to attend the Courses
in Evidences of Christianity.
The text-book used in the Senior year is Spalding’s Church
History—Lectures on Apologetics.	'
In the Junior year Hand-Book of the Christian Religion}
by Wilmers, is used.
A two-years’ course in Exposition of Christian Doctrine
(Moral) precedes the Junior course.	,
In the Preparatory School Bible History and Advanced
Catechism (O’Brien), are used.
s
94
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGIATE COURSES.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admission
to the University are held at Notre Dame in September, at
the beginning of the Fall term.
Certificates of work done in public or private schools will
not be accepted instead of examinations, unless the appli-
cant has passed the final examination after a full course in
his school, and the University Faculty are satisfied with the
standing of the school.
Graduate students of High Schools that are fully accred-
ited to the State Universities, will be admitted without exam-
ination to the Freshman year of any course to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Applicants for advanced standing that present certificates
from other colleges or universities may be received at the
discretion of the Faculty with or without examination as
regards particular cases.
No student will be received as a candidate for the degree
of Bachelor after the beginning' of the Senior year unless he
passes an examination in the Metaphysics and Ethics already
studied by the Senior class of the University.
No student will be admitted to any course of the Senior
year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic Students that are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences
of Religion.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
95
CONDITIONAL ADMISSION TO FRESHMAN
CLASSES.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations in
one or more of the subjects required for admission to any
Collegiate Course may, at the discretion of the Faculty, be
admitted to his class conditionally, to make up his deficiency
by extra study within one school year. Only when the con-
ditions are removed will the student be admitted to full
standing in his class..
ADMISSION TO ADVANCED STANDING.
Candidates for admission to advanced classes in any
course are required to pass, in addition to the usual entrance
examinations, an examination in the work already done by
the classes they desire to enter. The additional subjects
may be found in the programme of courses.
I. School of Arts and Letters*
IL School of Science*
III* School of Engineering*
IV. School of Law.
r
98	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF ARTS AND LETTERS.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books marked Group A below,
the remainder for writing three short essays (about 250
words each) upon subjects taken from the books marked
Group B. The books prescribed until further notice are:
Group A—Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II.;
Tennyson’s Princess; Scott’s Lady of the Lake; Longfellow’s
Evangeline.	,
Group B—Longfellow’s Tales of a Way side Inn; Milton’s
U Allegro, Il Penseroso, and Lycidas.
Equivalent authors will be received at the discretion of the
Examiners.
Latin—Grammar, complete; Caesar: four books of the
Gallic War; Cicero: four orations against Catiline; Virgil:
Bucolics, Georgies; or Ovid: about 1,200 verses; translation
at sight of passages from Cicero and Caesar; translation of
English into Latin based on the text of the author.
Greek—(For Classical Students only.) Grammar, Ety-
mology, and general rules of Syntax; Xenophon: Anabasis,
four books; prose composition based on text.
History—(a) United States—as set out in Johnson’s
History of the United States, or an equiv-
alent.	•
(b) A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medi-
aeval and Modern History, as set out in
the texts used in the high schools and
academies of the country.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
99
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book in
Algebra, or an equivalent in the larger treaties of other
authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and'numerical examples as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chawuenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Physiology—Martin’s Human Body, or an equivalent.
Chemistry—Elements of inorganic chemistry, as given in
high schools of good standing.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated* by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chibte's or Gage's. Laboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.
French and German—A year’s study of either German or
French is required for entrance to the course in English
and the course in History and Economics. Students that
present French will continue French during the Freshman,
year and begin German: in this case German will be con-
tinued during the Sophomore year. A like regulation holds
for those that present German at the entrance examination
—French will be continued during the Sophomore year.
The entrance examination requires sight translation of
ordinary German or French prose: an ability to translate,
rather than accurate grammatical knowledge, is expected.
100
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed in the Classical Course.
(DEGREE: A. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See For Description <	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin; . . .	5	37	I.	Latin, . . .	5	37	II.
Gr eek, ...	5	33	I.	Greek, . . .	5	33	II.
English,	4	4o	I.	English, . .	4	40	L
History, . .	3	44	I.	History, . .	3	44	I.
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.	Elocution,	2	44	VIII.
Elective, . .	5			Elective, . .	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin, . . .	5	37	III.	Latin, . . .	'5	38	IV.
Greek, . . .	5	33	III.	Greek, . . .	5	34	IV.
English, . .	4	40	II.	English, . .	4	40	II.
History, . .	3	44	II.	History, . .	3	44	II.
Elocution, .	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
Philosophy. .	5	29	I. i	Philosophy, .	5	29	I.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Latin, . . .	5	38	V.	Latin, . . .	5	38	VI.
Greek, . . .	5	34	V.	Greek, . . .	5	34	VI.
English, . .	4	4i	III.	English, . .	4	41	III.
Philosophy, .	5	29	II.	Philosophy, .	5	29	II.
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
Economics,	4	46	I.	Elective, . .	5		=
SENIOR YEAR.
Latin, . . .	5	39	VII.	Latin, . . .	5	39	VIII.
Greek, . . .	5	35	VII.	Greek, . . .	5	36	VIII.
English, . .	4	41	IV.	English, . .	4	4i	IV.
Philosophy, .	7	30	III.	Philosophy, .	7	30	IV.
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIIT.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
101
Studies Prescribed in the English Course.
(DEGREE: Litt. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for DESCRIPTION;	
		Page	Course			Pag-e	Course
English, . .	4	40	I.	English, . .	4	40	I.
Latin, . . .	5	37	I.	Latin, . . .	5	37	II.
French or . .	5	47	I.	French or . .	5	47	I.
German, . .		49	I.	German, . .		49	I.
History, . .	3	44	I.	History, . .	3	44	I.
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
Elective, . .	5			Elective, . .	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English, . .	4	40	II.	English, . .	4	40	II.
Latin, . . .	5	37	III.	Latin, . . .	5	38	IV.
French, . . .	2	48	II.	French, . .	2	48	II.
German, . . History, . .	3	49	II.	German, . .	3	49	II.
	3	44	II.	History, . . Elocution, . .	3	44	IT.
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.		2	44	VIII.
Philosophy. .	5	29	I.	Philosophy, .	5	29	I.
JUNIOR YEAR.
English, . .	4	4i	III.	English, . .	4	41	III.
Latin, . . .	5	38	V.	Latin, . . .	5	38	VI.
Philosophy, .	5	29	II.	Philosophy, .	5	29	II.
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
History, . .	4	45	III.	History, . .	4	45	III.
Elective, . .	5			Elective, . .	5		
SENIOR YEAR.
English, . .	4	41	IV.	English, . .	4	4i	IV.
Lgtin, . . .	5	39	VII.	Latin, . . .	5’	39.	VIII.
Philosophy, .	7	30	III.	Philosophy, .	7	30	IV.
Economics, .	4	46	I.	History, . .	5	45	IV.
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
102
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Course in History and Economics.
(DEGREE PH. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History, . .	4	44	I.	History, . .	4	44	I.
English, . .	4	4o	I.	English, . .	4	40	I.
French or . .	5	47	I.	French or . .	5	47	I.
German, . .	5	49	I.	German, . .	5	49	I.
Spanish, . .	3	48		Spanish, . .	3	48	
Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
History, .	4	44	II. a IV.a	History. .	4	44	11. a IV. a
Political Sci’ce,	4	46	I.	Political Sci’ce,	3	46	II.
Philosophy,	5	29	I.	Philosophy, .	5	29	1.
English, .	4	40	IL	English, .	4	40	IL
German, .	3	49	IL	German, .	3	49	II.
French,	2	48	11.	French,	2	48	II.
Elocution,	2	44	VIII.	Elocution,	2	44	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.
History, . .	7	45	II.b III.	History, . .	7	45	II. b III.
Political Sci’ce,	3	46	II.	Political Sci’ce,	3	46	III.
Philosophy, .	5	29	II.	Philosophy,	5	29	II.
English, . .	4	4i	III.	English, . .	4	41	III.
Elective, . .	2			Elective, . .	2		
Elocution,. .	2	44	VIII	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
SENIOR YEAR.
History, . .	3	45	IV. b	History, . .	3	45	IV. b
Political Sci’ce,	7	46	IV. V.	Political Sci’ce,	6	46	VI. VII.
Philosophy,	5	30	VII. III.	Philosophy,	5	30	VIII. IV.
English, . .	4	4i	IV	English, . .	4	4i	IV.
Elocution, . ®.	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, . .	2	44	VIII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
103
COURSE IN JOURNALISM.
(DEGREE: Master of Letters in Journalism.)
-A*
This is strictly a post-graduate course and is open only to
those who have completed the Course in History and Econo-
mics described on page 98. The purely academic training
afforded by that Course is here supplemented by a year’s
practical experience in newspaper work under the immediate
supervision of an experienced journalist. Abundant oppor-
tunity for practice is offered by the newspapers of Chicago
(all of which have regular correspondents at the University)
and of other large cities. In addition to the routine work of
this Course, each student is expected to contribute to special
departments in newspapers and magazines, and diplomas
will not be issued to those who have failed to find a market
for at least some of their work. The classes in this Course
are:
Journalism—Lectures and recitations on the history of
journalism. Critical comparative study of home and foreign
newspapers. The law of newspaper libel. Copyright and
postal regulations. Daily exercises in reporting, and frequent
exercises in editorial writing; department work; musical and
dramatic criticism and book reviews. Editing copy, proof-
reading and “making-up” a newspaper. Lectures on topics
of current interest, and exercises in the treatment of them.
Required readings in Dana’s Art of Newspaper Making,
Shuman’s Steps into J ournalism, Hudson’s History of Jour-
nalism, Luse’s Writing for the Press, any good treatise on
the law of libel and slander, and the biographies of famous
journalists. Discussion of the business side of newspaper
work, advertising, circulation, etc.
Theology—Wilhelm and Scannell’s Manual of Dogmatic
Theology.
Phonography and Typewriting—Ordinary Course.
Political History of the 19th Century.
104
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF SCIENCE.
Two courses are given, one a qourse in General Science,
the other a course in Biology.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION.
Candidates for the Freshman class of either of these
courses must be prepared to pass an examination in Arith-
metic, English and Geography, unless satisfactory assurance
of their proficiency in these branches is given. In addition,
they must pass an examination in the following subjects:
History—(a) United States.
(b) General outlines. See page 98.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as given
in Wentworth’s College Algebra, Tones’ Drill Book in Alge-
bra, or an equivalent in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Nezvcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Chemistry—A course of at least fifty experiments in ele-
mentary chemistry actually performed by the pupil.
French or German—Ability to translate at sight easy
French or German into English, and easy English sentences
into French or German. In the courses in Biology and
General Science French and German are required.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books marked Group A, the re-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
105
mainder for writing three short essays (about 250 words
each) upon subjects taken from the books marked Group B.
The books prescribed until further notice are:
Group A—Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II.; Ten-
nyson’s Princess; Scott’s Lady of the Lake; Longfellow’s
Evangeline.
Group B—Longfellow’s Tales of a Way side Inn; Milton’s
L} Allegro, Il Penseroso, and Lycidas.
Equivalent authors will be received at the discretion of the
Examiners.
Latin—Grammar, complete; Cassar: four books of the
Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based on the
text of this author.
CHEMICAL LABORATORY FEES.
Chemistry I, VII., each.........................$ 5.00
Chemistry II, III., (e) IV., V.,VL, (9) VIIL, IX.,
each .......................................... 10.00
106
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in General Science*
The Course in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of modern
science as will best enable the student to fit himself, either
for further study of a technical or professional kind, or for
the activities of business life. The Natural and Physical
Sciences constitute the primary studies of this Course.
Grouped about these are those studies in English, Mathe-
matics, and the Modern Languages, which experience has
shown to be necessary for the intelligent pursuit of science
and for the attainment of the object of the Course.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student during the Sophomore Year and two during the
Junior Year.
The scientific work of the Senior Year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in Physics, Chemistry,
Biology, or Mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Course of General
Science is required to submit, at least six weeks before the
final examinations, a written thesis upon some subject con-
nected with the elective work of the Senior Year. The sub-
ject chosen must have the approval of the professor in the
course elected. The thesis shall contain not less than six
thousand words, and must be satisfactory in matter and
treatment.
Students that complete the required courses, pass the final
examinations, and present a satisfactory thesis will receive
the degree of Bachelor of Science.
(The facilities for instruction in this Course are described on page
16.) For Laboratory Fees, see page 114.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
107
Studies Prescribed in the Course in General Science,
(DEGREE: B. S.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description-		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See For Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Physiology, .	5	86	I.	Zoology, . .	6	79	I. II.
Physics, . .	5	77	I.	Chemistry, .	4	74	HI.
Chemistry,. .	4	74	III.	Trigonometry,	5	50	II.
Anatomy, . .	2	85	I.	English, . .	5	40	I.
Algebra, . .	5	50	I.	French or Ger.,	2	47-49	I.
English, . .	5	40	I.	Drawing, . .	2	71	II.
French or Ger.,	2	47-49	I.				
Drawing, . .	2	7i	I.				
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany, . . .	5	78	I.	Botany, . . .	6	78	I. II.
Cnemistry, .	5	74	IV.	Physics, . .	4	77	ii.ni.
French or Ger.,	2	47 49	II.	Anal. Geometry,	5	5i	in.
Physics, . .	3	76	II.	French or Ger.,	2	47-49	n.
English, . .	1	42	V.	Drawing, . .	2	7i	11.
Elective, . .	3			English, . .	1	42	V.
Drawing, . .	2	7i	II.	Elective, . .	3		
JUNIOR YEAR.
Geology, . . Calculus, . .	2	88	I.	Geology, . .	7	88	II.III.
	5	51	IV.	Calculus, . .	5	52	V.
Astronomy, .	3	60	I.	Astronomy, .	3	60	I.
English, . .	1	42	V.	Philosophy, .	5	29	I.
One Elective	3			English, . .	1	42	V.
Philosophy	5	29	I.	One Elective,	3		
SENIOR YEAR.
Three Electives in Science, . Philosophy, . French or Ger., Scientific Readings, .	9-I5 5- I	29	II.	Three Electives in Science, . Philosophy, . French or Ger., Scientific Readings, .	9-15 5 1	29	II.
108
■UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Biology*
The Course in Biology has been designed for students that
wish to devote their time largely to biological pursuits, either
as an immediate preparation for the study of medicine or
veterinary science, or with a view to teaching or otherwise
engaging in biological research. The students in this course
are required to prepare an essay during the first term of the
Junior Year on some subject pertaining to biology. Every
candidate for a degree must submit a written thesis accom-
panied with original drawings. This thesis must be pre-
sented two weeks before the final examinations. Students
not preparing themselves for a medical course may substi-
tute for the advanced Courses in Anatomy and Physiology
equivalents from either Mathematics, Physics, or English
Literature.
LABORATORY FEES.
Biological Laboratory—Biology II.............$5.00.
Biological Laboratory—Zoology II............. 2.50
Botanical Laboratory—for Botany I. and II... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I. and II............ 2.50
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology......10.00
Use of Apparatus in Mineralogical Laboratory. 5.00
Use of Apparatus in Biological Laboratory for Courses
in Zoology and Botany in Preparatory Department
each ...................................... 2.50
(The facilities for instructionin this course are described on page 16.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
109
Studies Prescribed in the Course in Biology.
(DEGREE: B. S.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR ■description:		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE for description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Biology, -	-	3	81	I.	Biology, -	-	3	81	II.
Physics, -	-	5	77	I.	Chemistry, -	4	74	III.
Chemistry, -	4	74	III.	English, -	-	5	40	I.
Anatomy, -	2	85	I.	French or Ger.,	2	47-49	I.
English, -	-	5	40	I.	Drawing, -	-	2	73	VIII.
French or Ger.,	2	47-49	I.				
Drawing, -	-	2	73	VIII.				
SOPHOMORE YEAR*
Botany, -	-	5	78	I.	Botany, -	-	6	78	I. II.
Microscopy, -	3'	84	I.	Microscopy, -	1	84	II.
Chemistry, -	5	74	IV.	Chemistry, -	7	75	V.
French or Ger.,	2	48-49	II.	French or Ger.,	2	48-49	II.
Drawing, -	-	2	73	IX.	Drawing, -	-	2	72	IX.
English, -	-	1	42	V.	English, -	-	1	42	V.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anatomy, -	2	85	III.	Anatomy, -	2	85	III.
Zoology, -	-	6	79	III.	Zoology, -	-	10	80	IV- V.
Bacteriology, -	3	87	I.	Geology, -	-	5	88	III.
Geology, -	-	2	88	I.	Philosophy, -	5	29	I.
English, -	-	1	42	V.	English, -	-	1	42	V.
Chemistry, -	5	75	VI.				
Philosophy, -	5	29	I.				
SENIOR YEAR*
Human Anatomy, - Human	5	85	II. III.	Human Anatomy, - Human	2	85	III.
Physiology,	4	86	II. III.	Physiology,	3	86	II.
Botany, -	-	10	78	III.	Botany, -	-	10	78	III.
Philosophy, -	5	29	II.	Zoology, -	-	3	80	VI.
				Philosophy, -	5	29	H.
110
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
There are two courses in Pharmacy: one of two years,
leading to the degree, Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph. G.) ; and
another of three years, leading to the degree, Pharmaceutical
Chemist (Phar. C.) The courses’ in the first two years of
the three-year courses are the same as those required for
the degree Ph. G.
ADMISSION.
Candidates for admission to these courses must be at least
17 years of age.
The requirements for admission are the same as those
prescribed on pages 104 and 105, with the exception that
French and German are excluded.
Experience in a drug-store will not be accepted instead of
the entrance examinations, but it will be of great advantage
to the students in the work of this Course.
METHODS AND EQUIPMENT.
The subjects studied in this department are intended to
impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical knowl-
edge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the simplest
and gradually leading up to the most difficult and compli-
cated processes.
Special attention is given to the little details, often neg-
lected in schools, which are so essential to success in any
professional work and particularly in Pharmacy. The student
is carefully drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescrip-
tion work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of prepara-
tions are required throughout the Course.
On entering the laboratory the student is assigned to a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ill
desk fully equipped with all the necessary apparatus. He
has at hand balances, percolators, mortars, graduated glasses,
hydrometers, theremometers, pill machines, Liebig condens-
ers, stills, a large assortment of porcelain, platinum and
glass utensils, sand and steam baths and other minor articles
that are included in a complete laboratory outfit.
THESIS.
During the last year the student is required to spend at
least two hours a week in original research on a subject
within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of this work
are carefully recorded and must be typewritten and presented
to the faculty as a requirement for graduation.
LABORATORY FEES.
In addition to the regular tuition fee covering cost of
board, room, etc., the student is required to pay:
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II...............$20.00.
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II. and IV........ 20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VII. and VIII...... 40.00
112
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN PHARMACY.
(DEGREES: Ph. G., Ph. C.)
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Materia Medica,	2	S3	VIL I	Materia Medica,	2	83	VII. I
Pharmacy, . .	4	8l	I.	Pharmacy, . .	4	81	I. II.
Chemistry, .	2	74	I.	Chemistry,. .	3	82	III.'
Botany, . .	5	78	I.	Botany, . .	5	78	I.
English, . .	5	40	I.	English,	. . Physics,	. .	5 5	40 77	I. I.
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy, . .	6	82	II. III. V.	Pharmacy, .	6	82	II. IV. VI.
Chemistry, .	5	74	IV.	Chemistry, .	5	75	V.
Materia Medica,	5	83	VII.	Materia Medica,	5	83	VII. 2
Pharmacognosy	2	83	VII. 3	Physiology, .	5	86	I.
THIRD YEAR.
Pharmacy, .	5	82	VI.	Pharmacy,. .	5	82	VIII.
Chemistry, .	7	75	VI.	Therapeutics,	2	83-	VII. 2
Bacteriology, .	3	87	I.	Toxicology, .	5	75	V.
Geology, ;	.	2	88	. I.	Geology, .	4	88	II.
Thesis, " . .						 .. 							
Apply for a detailed catalogue of the Pharmacy College.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
113
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING.
Three regular courses are offered: one leading to the
degree of Civil Engineer, one to the degree of Mechanical
Engineer, and another to the degree of Mechanical Engineer
in Electrical Engineering.
A special Short Course in Electrical Engineering is
offered to accommodate those that wish to fit themselves
for practical work in the shortest possible time.
A student should not take up any one of these courses
unless he has a natural aptitude for mathematics. A liking
for machinery and tools is of great advantage in Mechanical
or Electrical Engineering.
Special attention is given to the practical work of Engi-
neering in the laboratories and draughting rooms. The
exercises in calculating, designing and constructing are
made to conform as nearly as possible to the best modern
engineering practice.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and consider-
able time is given to technical work in the laboratories.
(For a list of available apparatus, see pages 14-15.)
In the schedule of studies one hour credit is given for
each recitation or lecture which requires from one to two
hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in laboratory
work or drawing are required for each hour on the schedule.
114
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fees for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 26, the regular stu-
dents in the three Engineering Courses are required to pay
laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of materials con-
sumed and the deterioration of the apparatus used, as fol-
lows :
LABORATORY FEES.
Physical Laboratory III............................$ 5.00
Physical Laboratory IV............................ 15.00
Electrical Laboratory L, II....................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory V........................... 20.00
Shopwork, all four-hour courses per term.......... 15.00
Chemistry 1........................................ 5.00
Chemistry IL, IV., V., each....................... 10.00
ADMISSION.
Candidates for admission to the Freshman Year must be
at least 17 years of age. For advanced standing there must
be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
Written examinations in the following subjects required
for admission will be held at the University on the first two
days of the fall term at the beginning of the school year:
Arithmetic—Complete, including the metric system of
weights and measures. Special importance is attached to
accuracy in calculations and the practical application of rules.
Algebra—Fundamental operations, simple equations, in-
volution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, Jones’ Drill Book
in Algebra, or an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
115
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvcnet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
History—(a) United States.
(b) General outlines. See page 98.
Geography—Political and Physical, as much as is con-
tained in the larger school geographies.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments,, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chut's or Gage's. Laboratory work is recommended, but
is not required.
Chemistry—The elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in a good high school.	.
Botany—As given in elementary text-books.
Physiology and Hygiene—As given in elementary text-
books.
French and German—(Only one language is required.)
A knowledge of elementary grammar and an ability to read
ordinary prose at sight. This should be acquired by the
reading of about three hundred pages of annotated text,
including historical narrative and popular science in connec-
tion with the study of grammar.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books marked Group A, the re-
mainder for writing three short essays (about 250 words
each) upon subjects taken from the books marked Group B.
The books prescribed until further notice are:
Group A—Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and II.; Ten-
nyson’s Princess; Scott’s Lady of the Lake; Longfellow’s
Evan reline.
o
116
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Groibp B—Longfellow’s Tales of a Wayside Inn; Milton’s
IP Allegro, Il Penseroso, and Lycidas.
Equivalent authors will be received at the discretion of the
Examiners.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfactorily
he may begin at once the regular Freshman work; but if he
is deficient in one or more subjects he may enter condition-
ally and make up his deficiency as soon as possible in the
Preparatory Department.
Those that are prepared to pass the entrance examination
in German will take both French and German in the Fresh-
man Year and French only in the Sophomore Year, while if
French is presented at the entrance examination both lang-
uages will be studied in the Freshman Year and German
only in the Sophomore Year. The intention in either case
is to give a reading knowledge of technical works.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
117
Introduction to the Course of Civil Engineering,
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare stu-
dents by a thorough and systematic training in the sciences
and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to perform intel-
ligently the duties of their profession either in the office or
in some of the responsibile positions superintending the
construction and operation of public works. To secure these
results the student is given, not only a sound theoretical
training in the studies of the courses, but he is also required
to study the practical applications of the principles upon
which the theory is based. The first two years are devoted
to the study of Mathematics and the theoretical branches.
The last two years are given to the study of the applied
courses, practical work in the laboratory and field, so much
as possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German to
enable the student to read easily and understandingly
professional works in these languages; while the study of
English is pursued until the student is qualified to prepare
acceptable themes on professional subjects. Instruction
based upon standard text-books is given throughout the
course by means of lectures, recitations, practice in labora-
tory, drawing room, and field. This work is largely supple-
mented by assigning to the student, for solution, practical
problems bearing directly upon the subject matter discussed
in the class room and requiring original investigation, thus
training the student to habits of independence and awaken-
ing his interest in the work of his course.
The Department is provided with all the instruments nec-
essary for effective work in the different branches of field
118
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Engineering. After the student is taught the use and
adjustments of the instruments, surveys, elementary in
character, are commenced and continued progressively until
the more difficult principles and methods are understood.
In a similar manner is instruction given in the courses
in Sanitary Engineering, Hydromechanics, Resistance of
Materials, Bridges and Roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the
student with practical Engineering subjects, and the most
approved methods of execution and designing.
A thesis on some approved subject connected with the
course of study, is required of each student as a condition of
graduation. The thesis must embody the results of original
research.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
119
Studies Prescribed for Civil Engineering*
(DEGREE: C. E.)
FRESHMAN YEAR*
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See For Description :	
		Page	Course			Page	Corn se
Algebra, . .	5	5°	I.	Analytic Geom.	5	51	III.
Trigonometry,	5	50	II.	Surveying, .	5	53	IL III*
English, . .	5	40	I.	English, . .	5	40	I.
French or Ger.,	2	47'49	I.	French or Ger.,	2	47-49	II.
Chemistry, . .	3	74	II. C	Chemistry, .	3	74	11. c
Drawing, . .	3	71	I- 1	Drawing, . .	3	71	I.
SOPHOMORE YEAR*
Calculus, . .	5	51	IV.	Calculus, . .	5	52	V.
Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.
R.R. Surveying	4	54	VI.VII.	Adv. Surveying,	4	54	IV. V.
English, . .	i	42	V.	English, . .	1	42	V.
Physics, . .	3	77	II.	Physics, . .	3	77	II.
Drawing, . .	4	71	II. III.	Drawing, . .	4	72	III.V.
French or Ger.,	2	48-4 9	III.	French or Ger.,	2	48-49	III.
JUNIOR YEAR*
Analytic Mechanics,	5	55	VIII.	Mechanics of Materials, .	5	55	IX.
Astronomy,	3	60	I.	Astronomy, .	3	60	I.
Geodesy, . .	4	59	XVI	English, . .	1	42	V.
English, . .	1	42	V.	Geology, . .	4	88	Ill,
Geology, . .	4	86	I.	Stereo tomy, .	2	58	XIV.
Drawing, . .	4	72	V.	Drawing, . .	2	72	VI.
SENIOR YEAR*
Engineering,	5-	57	XII .	Engineering,	5	57	XII.
Drawin g, . .	4	72	VI.	Hydromechan.,	3	58	XV.
Bridges, Roofs,	3	56	X.	Graph. Stat.,	5	56	XI.
Sanitary Eng.,	2	57	XIII.	Steam Boilers,	3	62	IV.
Hydromechan. ,	3	58	XV.	Thesis Work,				 .
120
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Mechanical
Engineering.
The course in Mechanical Engineering, leading to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, is given to those young
men that wish to prepare themselves for the designing of
machinery, with its appurtenances, and for the successful
management of power-plants. As the course requires a
thorough knowledge of Pure and Applied Mathematics, as
well as of Physics, only those capable of adapting themselves
to these requirements should take it up. The course is
modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough fundamental
training is essential to success in engineering, and that this
training is best secured by a study of the practical applica-
tion of the principles involved, as well as of the theoretical
principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of the
study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used in
Mechanical Engineering, accompanied by the science of
pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions of
connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions or to the work done or energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct develop-
ment of kinematics, and the course continues throughout
the Junior and Senior Years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The first
year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop, in
which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When students have become sufficiently
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
121
skilled in woodwork, they take up the work of the foundry,
blacksmith shop, and machine shop. During the ensuing
year the advanced students will undertake the construction,
from an original design, of a rotary steam engine. A sys-
tematic course of training is provided, which advances the
student by easy steps until he has mastered all the details
of the art.
The latter part of the Senior Year is largely taken up in
the preparation of a Graduating Thesis. Here especially
the student is taught to depend as much as possible upon
his own resources and abilities in exercising his ingenuity.
This is the culminating effort of the course, embodying the
chief results, and is expected to show considerable origin-
ality.
(For the equipment of the shops in which the courses are given, see
Page 18.)
122
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Mechanical Engineering,
(DEGREE! M. EJ
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	SEE FOR Description.		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for DESCRIPTION:	
		Faye	Course			Fa^e	Course
Algebra . .	5	50	I.	Analyt. Geoin.,	5	51	III.
T rigon ometry,	5	50	IL	English, . .	5	40	I.
English, . .	5	40	I.	French . . .	2	47	I.
French . . .	2	47	I.	German, . .	3	49	II.
German, . .	3	49	II.	Drawing, . .	3	71	II.
Drawing, .	3	7i	I.	Chemistry,	3	74	II. C
Chemistry,	3	74	IL c	Shop work, . .	5	64	X. a
SOPHOMORE YEAR-
Calculus, . .	5	5i	IV.	Calculus, .• .	5	52	V.
Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.
Drawing . .	2	7i	II.	Drawing, . .	3	7i	II.
English, . .	1	42	V.	English, . .	1	42	V.
French, . . .	2	48	II.	French, . „	2	48	II.
Chemistry,	5	75	IV.	Chemistry,	5	75	V.
Physics,	3	77	II.	Physics, . . Shop work,. .	4	77	II.III.
Shop work,	4	64	X. b.		4	64	X. c.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytical Mechanics,	5	55	VIII.	Meeh’s of Eng. Machine design	5 3	55 63	IX. VI.
Kinematics, .	5	62	V.	Valve Gears,	2	63	VIL
English, . .	1	42	V.	Electrical Eng.	2	66	III.
Drawing, . .	3	72	IV.	English,	1	42	V.
Physics, . . Shopwork,	3	77	IV.	Drawing, . .	3	72	IV.
	5	64	X. d	Shopwork, .	5	64	X. e.
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of Engineering,	5	61	II.	Thermodynam, Steam Engine	5	61	I.
Thermodynam,	5	61	I.	Design, . .	5	62	III.
Steam Engine				Steam Boilers,	3	62	IV.
Design, . .	5	62	III.	Thesis, . . .	12	64	IX.
Mechani’l Lab.	3	63	VIII.				
Shopwork,	5	64	X. e				
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Electrical
Engineering.
The remarkable development of electrical industries dur-
ing the past few years has created a demand for men skilled
in the theory and practice of Electrical and Mechanical
work. The study of the subjects arranged on the following
page is intended to give a general education as well as
special training in the technical branches involved in the
various practical applications of electricity in industrial
pursuits.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations from
standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops the
operations explained in the class room are performed by
the student, and thus he acquires some skill in handling
tools and instruments, and obtains a working knowledge of
the principles involved. Careful records of the work done
in the laboratories are kept by the student and are handed
in for suggestions and corrections at the end of every week.
(For requirements of admission, degree, etc., see pages 102-103.)
THESIS.
Each candidate for a degree is required to prepare during
the Senior Year an acceptable thesis embodying the results
of an extended original research on an Engineering subject,
chosen at the beginning of the year, with the approval of
the head of the department. The descriptive part must be
typewritten and the drawings carefully made on white
cardboard.
124
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Electrical Enginering.
(DEGREE: B. S. in E. E.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for DESCRIPTION;		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	■Course			Page	Course
Algebra . .	5	50	I.	Analyt. Geom.,	5	5i	III.
Trigonometry,	5	5o	II.	English, . .	5	40	L
English, . .	5	40	I.	French .	2	47	I.
French . . .	2	47	I.	German, . . Drawing, . .	3	49	II.
German, . .	3	49	II.		3	7i	II.
Drawing, .	3	7i	I.	Chemistry,	3	74	II. c
Chemistry,	3	74	II. C	Shop work, .	5	64	X. a
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, . .	5	51	IV.	Calculus, . .	5	52	V.
Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.’
Drawing . .	2	7i	II.	Drawing, . .	3	71	II.
English, . .	1	42	V.	English, . .	1	42	V.
French, or Ger.,	2	48-49		French, or Ger.,	2	48-49	
Chemistry,	5	74	IV.	Electricity and			
Physics, . .	3	77	II.	Magnetism,	2	66	III.
‘■'hopwork,	4	64	X. b.	Physics, . .	4	77	II. III.
				Shopwork, .	4	64	X. c.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytical Mechanics,	5	55	VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat. Machine design	5 3	55 63	IX. vi. vn.
Kinematics, .	5	62	V.	English, . .	1	42	V.
English, . .	1	42	V.	Drawing, . .	3	72	IV.
Drawing, . .	3	72	IV.	Physics, . .	3	77	IV.
Physics, . .	3	77	IV.	Shopwork, .	5	64	X. e.
Shopwork,	5	64	X. d	—	- 								
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo Machinery,	5	66	IV.	Dynamo Machinery,	5	66	IV.
Thermodynam.	5	61	I.	Thermodynam,	5	61	I.
Electrical Dab.,	5	66	V.	Electrical Dab.,	5	66	V.
Drawing, . . Thesis, . . .	3	67	VI.	Drawung, Thesis, . . .	3	67	VI.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
125
Short Course in Applied Electricity*
-A?
Students that do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year course
should enter this shorter course, which may be completed in
two years. It is arranged to give an accurate knowledge of
the fundamental theories of electricity and magnetism, as
well as a certain amount of skill in handling electrical
machinery and appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonome-
try, and elementary physics and chemistry are included, for
they are necessary in order to carry on successfully the
practical work of designing, manufacturing, and testing or
operating electrical apparatus. Training in this practical
work is given in the draughting room, the mahcine shops,
and in the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application of
electricity to the distribution of light and power are learned
by testing, repairing, and making additions to the Univer-
sity plant and by visiting the numerous electric plants in
the vicinity, accompanied by an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is taken
up early in the course and sufficient practice is given to
enable the student to make working drawings and to follow
them in the construction of apparatus in the shops and
laboratories.
Applicants for admission to this course should be at least
17 years of age. They should have a fair knowledge of the
subjects - taught in the common schools, especially arith-
metic.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily com-
pleted, a certificate, stating that fact is issued.
126
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Short Course in
Applied Electricity*
FIRST YEAR,
SUBSECTS:	Hrs. a	SEE FOR description:
First Term.	Week	Page ; Course
Algebra, -	-	5	162 | *
Geometry, -	5	162 [ |1
Drawing, -	-	3	71 I.
Shop work, -	3	64 j X. a.
Phvsics, -	- Applied	5	77 j I. i
Electricity,	5	65 : i.
SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR description:	
		Page	Course
Algebra, -	- Geometry, -	5	163	t
	5	163	t
Drawing, -	-	3	71	II.
Shopwork, - Chemistry, -	3	64	X. b.
	5	74	I.
Applied			
Electricity,	a	65	I.
SECOND YEAR,
Trigonometry, Drawing, -	- Shopwork, - Dynamo Machinery, Applied Electricity,	5 3 3 5 5	50 72 64 66 65	II. | VI. X. c. IV. II.	Engines and Boilers,	- Drawing, -	- Shopwork, - Dynamo Machinery, Applied Electricity,	5 3 3 5 5	64 72 Gl- ee 65	i. VI. X. d. IV. II.
* First term, third year.
f Second term, third year.
J Second term, third year.
[[Second term, third year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
127
COURSE IN ARCHITECTURE.

ADMISSION.
Candidates for admission to the Freshman Year must be
at least 17 years of age. For advanced standing there must
be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
DESCRIPTION OF THE COURSE.
Those subjects that are not taught in the architect’s office
but which are necessary for an architect are especialN
insisted upon in this course.
The work in technical and freehand drawing is thorough,
and the student is prepared for the expression of his archi-
tectural plans.
In construction and practice the courses prescribed for the
students in the civil and mechanical engineering schools are
followed with special application to architectural require-
ments. The eesthetic part of the work thus has a practical
and exact basis.
The history of architecture is taught by lecture and illus-
trations.
The material equipment consists of plaster models,
engravings and photographs of noted buildings, books on
architecture, and the apparatus of the engineering and art
schools.
128
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Course in Architecture*
(DEGREE: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description:		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	See For Description:	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, . .	5	50	I.	Analytic Geom.	5	51	III.
Trigonometry,	5	50	II.	English, . .	5	40	I.
English, . .	5	40	I.	French or Ger.,	2	47-49	
French or Ger.,	2	47-49		Meeh. Drawing,	2	7i	II.
Meeh. Drawing,	2	71	I.	Artistic Draw’g,	5	69	I.c Ld
Artistic Draw’g,	5	69	La Lb	Chemistry, .	3	74	II. c
Chemistry, .	3	74	II. c	Shopwork,.	5	64	X. a
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, . .	5	5i	IV.	Calculus, . .	5	52	V.
Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	53	I.
Meeh. Drawing,	3	7i	II. III.	Meeh. Drawing,	4	7i	II. III.
Artistic Draw’g,	5	70	II. a	Artistic Draw’g,	5	70	II. a
English, . .	1	42	V.	English, . .	1	42	V.
French or Ger.,	2	47-49		French or Ger.,	2	47-49	
Physics, Shopwork,	3	77	II.	Physics, . .	4	77	II.III.
	4	64	X. b	Shopwork,	4	64	X. c
Ap. Electricity,	3	65	I.				
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Meeh.	5	55	VIII.	Meeh, of Mat’ls	5	55	IX.
English, . .	1	42	V.	English, . .	1	42	V.
Geology, . .	4	88	I.	Geology, ’. .	5	88	III.
Meeh. Draw’g,*	4	72	VI.	Meeh. Draw’g,*	4	73	VIL
Artistic Draw’g,	5	70	II. b	Artistic Draw’g,	5	70	II. b
Roof Trusses,	3	56	X.	Roof Trusses,	3	56	X.
SENIOR YEAR.
Arch’t Design,!	IO	67	II.	Arch’l Design f	10	67	II.
Contracts, . .	1	144	I.	Photogr aphy,	2	68	IV.
Specifications,	1	67	III.	Stereotomy, .	2	58	XIV.
Hist, of Archie,	3	67	I.	Hist, of Arch’e,.	3	67	I.
Surveying,	5	53	II.III.	Vent. & Heat’g	1	57	XIII.
Foundations, Thesis Work,	1	57	XII.	Graph. Statics, Thesis Work,	3	56	XL
* Pen-and-ink and Water-color rendering are applied in this work,
t In this course is included work done in Course III., page 70.
5
School of Law*
130
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
FACULTY.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D, Dean,
International Law, Equity Jurisprudence and Pleadings,
Common Law Pleadings, Real and Personal Property,
Evidence, Domestic Relations, Criminal Law,
Corporations, Constitutional Law,
Contracts, Torts, etc.
Hon. LUCIUS HUBBARD, LL. D.,
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Hon. TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Appellate Jurisdiction of Courts of Last Resort.
ARTHUR L. HUBBARD, A. B, LL. B,
Damages and Study of Cases.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, A. B., LL. B.,
Elementary Law, Quiz Work, etc.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
131
SCHOOL OF LAW.
£
For several years a systematic movement has been in
progress under the auspices of the bench and bar of the
country to elevate the standing and promote the efficiency
of the legal profession, and make it as learned in fact as
it is in name. The most essential preliminary step to this
end, as lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe requirements
and examinations more comprehensive and rigorous as a
1	o
test of qualifications for
ADMISSION TO THE BAR.
Upon the law departments of universities, or law schools,
as they may collectively be called, the profession must
mainly depend for co-operation and success in this laudable
• undertaking. In fact, due acknowledgment of the import-
ance of their services is made as follows in a former report
of the Committee on Legal Education of the American Bar
Association:
“The benefits which law schools offer are easily suggested, and
are of the most superior kind. They afford the student an acquaint-
ance with general principles, difficult if not impossible to be otherwise
obtained; they serve to remove difficulties which are inherent in
scientific and technical phraseology, and as a necessary consequence
they furnish the student with the means for clear conception and
accurate and precise expression. They familiarize him with leading
cases, and the application of them to discussion. They give him the
Valuable habit of attention, teach him familiar maxims and offer him
the priceless opportunities which result from contact and generous
emulation. They lead him readily to survey the law as a science,
and imbue him with the principles of ethics as its true foundation.
Disputing, reasoning, reading, and discoursing, become his constant
exercises! he improves remarkably as he becomes acquainted with
them, and obtains progress otherwise beyond his reach.”
132
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
According to the late Chief Justice Waite, of the United
States Supreme Court, “Law schools are now a necessity.”
And, in his work entitled “The American Commonwealth,”
Professor Bryce attributes the progress in learning and
professional attainments of American lawyers “to the extra-
ordinary excellence of many of the law schools.”
It is probably well that the Professor qualifies his state-
ment by using the word “’many,” instead of “all,” in referring
to the work of the law schools of the country; for some of
them, regrettable to state, appear to be deficient in whole-
some zeal to co-operate in elevating the standing of
professional learning and ethics. They seem not to discrim-
inate. At any rate, they permit persons wanting even in
the rudiments of a liberal education to become candidates for
diplomas. Their attitude in this respect would seem to
indicate that a large attendance and substantial revenue are
placed paramount in the scale of importance to substantial
results in the equipment and training of students. Such of
these young men as manage without further preparation to
secure admission to the bar almost necessarily commit gross
mistakes in the technical work of the profession, and, in
consequence, clients are wronged, judges embarrassed and
courts delayed. While it is true that many of them abandon
the practice after a precarious experience and turn to pur-
suits for which they are better qualified, yet the step is
attended in some measure with disappointment and
humiliation, not to mention the comparative loss of time
and means incident to preparing for examination and wait-
ing' vainly for success.
The movement in progress to protect and promote the
interests of the legal profession has spread sufficiently of
late to become an obstacle to the continuance of these abuses,
exceptional though they be. Hereafter such law schools as
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
133
receive students indiscriminately, without particular regard
to their educational standing, maintaining a loose system of
instruction and permitting loose methods of study, with
possibly a promise of graduation in one or two years, must
in most States, at any rate, suffer the humiliation incident
to the rejection as incompetent of their graduates by the
examining boards designated to pass upon the qualifications
of applicants for admission to the bar. This movement is
salutary in all respects, and law schools that fail to conform
to it in the duration and thoroughness of their courses of
instruction have no valid claim upon the approval of the
profession, the patronage of students or the confidence of
the public.
It is becoming more difficult year by year successfully to
meet the requirements and pass the examinations prescribed
for admission to the bar, and law schools are bound to take
cognizance of the fact and correspondingly broaden and
strengthen their courses of instruction. A few years ago it
was far less difficult than it is at present to enter the ranks
of the profession, and the decided tendency is to make even
more exacting the test of qualifications for membership.
With this tendency uninterrupted, the profession gives
promise of attaining to its coveted ideal in learning, ethics
and efficiency.
And here it may be in order to refer more particularly to
THE SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
in the Law Department of the University of Notre Dame,
although, of course, it is included in general terms in what
has been stated regarding the duty of law schools to aid in
promoting the laudable aims and general welfare of the
legal profession.
Referring briefly to the prevailing methods of instruction
in the different law schools, it may be stated that in some of
J 34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
them the text-book system is exclusively followed, and the
students read and recite daily an assigned lesson of a given
number of pages; in others the lecture system obtains, as in
European universities, and students familiar with phonog-
raphy may take notes and sufficiently study the same to be
able in subsequent examinations to answer questions bear-
ing upon the subjects studied; in a few others the study of
cases, or case reading, is the favored system, and students
read books of selected cases treating of different branches
of the law, with a view to reciting them in outline or writ-
ing a brief digest of the points involved; in certain other
schools an effort has been made to combine some of the
distinctive features of case reading, text-book work and
lecturing, and a mixed or eclectic system, as it may be
called, exists in them. At Notre Dame, however, none of
these systems is exclusively followed, although there is a
nearer approach to the last than to any of the others. With
careful discrimination, the best features of all are comprised
in the curriculum here preferred. It is believed, in short,
that nowhere in the country is the law course more com-
prehensive, thorough and practical than at this University.
The study of cases is usually taken up early in September,
year by year, and continued long enough to enable students
to understand, analyze and criticise the decisions assigned
to them for study and recitation. The difficulties usually
encountered by beginners in the work are readily sur-
mounted by the aid of lectures and explanations. In a
comparatively short time students become familiar with a
number of the leading cases and learn to recognize features
of strength or weakness in the opinions of the courts. They
learn also to distinguish dicta from the logical sequence of
thought in dealing with the proper subjects of judicial
determination, and recognize promptly the qualifying or
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
135
weakening effect of a dissenting opinion, where such is filed
by a minority of the judges. Moreover, after thus familiar-
izing themselves with cases, they are advised and expected
to read the authorities cited daily in class, whether in the
text-books, lectures, or quizzes. In the preparation also of
written theses from mouth to mouth, comprising on an
average ten or twelve pages of legal cap, they must nec-
essarily consult and cite them. In moot-court work likewise
they are prompted and emulously incited in their foretaste of
forensic contests to make a careful study not only of the
cases in the reports, but also of the pertinent portions of
text-books, digests, etc., and thus they are enabled intelli-
gently to marshal the authorities upon which they depend
for success in the maintenance of their respective contentions.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts of
some States require applicants to furnish lists of the text-
books they studied, and such of these applicants as have
merely attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligible to
stand as candidates for examination, even though they
might creditably acquit themselves in it. If they undertake
to explain how the law may be learned without studying a
certain number of text-books, they find the examiners
inclined to listen incredulously, if not openly and positively
to express doubt. And if they ask credit for the work
done, it is likely to be given so sparingly as to cause dis-
appointment and discouragement. As some of the law
students at Notre Dame come from States in which this
test is applied in examinations, the use of text-books is
deemed advisable, if not necessary. But there are other
reasons for using them. It has been found, for example,
that so many mistakes are made by the average student in
committing lectures to writing that his notes are sometimes
136	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
unintelligible or misleading, and consequently practically
worthless for future reference. While it is true that this
objection might be overcome by resorting to the slow, if
not tedious, process of dictation, yet this method .of instruc-
tion would manifestly be impracticable under present con-
ditions in a domain so extensive as the law. Moreover, the
books used by students become peculiarly available in their
subsequent practice. Remembering more or less clearly the
contents, they can turn more readily than they could with
books they had not studied to the pages that elucidate the
questions with which they may afterwards have to deal at
the instance of courts, clients and opposing counsel. In
some law schools lectures have been taken in full by certain
students skilled in pronography, and then typewritten and
sold at so much a page to other members of the class, but
this practice has fallen into disfavor and disuse, having
proved to be very unsatisfactory and more costly than the
purchase of text-books.
The lecture or dictation system alone may be pronounced
antiquated and impracticable for the reasons already stated,
but in combination with text-book work, case reading and
daily examinations, its great value and practical utility can-
not be overestimated. At Notre Dame it .forms an important
factor in the law curriculum. Each subject is fully covered
by lectures, text-book work, daily and bi-monthly examina-
tions, monthly theses, the reading of pertinent cases and
formal trials in the moot and other courts of the University.
This course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough,
and practical. It cannot be excelled. It may be stated
without qualification or reserve that the earnest and indus-
trious student can accomplish twice as much in a given
time at Notre Dame as he can in an office or at home.
With comparative immunity from the distractions and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
137
temptations of city life, he can give his entire time to study
and necessary recreation. In short, he can here study a
greater number of hours and do more class-work day by day
than probably anywhere else in the entire country.
The authorities of the University, it may be repeated, are
sincerely in sympathy with the efforts now making in
educational and legal circles to raise to the highest plane
practicable
THE STANDARD OF PROFICIENCY
for graduation in law and admission to the bar. However,
they aim to be guided in the matter by the dictates of com-
mon sense. They know that a great number of worthy and
capable young men who desire to qualify themselves for the
legal profession are prevented by circumstances from com-
pleting the studies of a collegiate course before an age that
seems to make imperative the obligation of beginning with-
out delay the study of law. Such young men, many of whom
may be actively engaged in business, in teaching, in jour-
nalistic work, and the like, are almost necessarily driven to
the chaotic and discouraging study of the law in offices, if
denied indulgent consideration by the institutions of higher
learning.	.
It is conceived to be the duty of a university to do all the
good it can to as many as possible, consistently with its cur-
riculum and standing; and to that end it ought to aid and
encourage, to the full limit of its opportunities, worthy and
upright, honest and capable young men who manifest an
earnest desire to qualify themselves for a useful and credit-
able career in the higher walks of professional life. With a
view to doing its full share in this regard, the University
of Notre Dame will welcome to its halls and its classes every
deserving young man who desires to pursue and become
proficient in the study of the law. However, if his standing
138
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
in collegiate work or general education be not sufficiently
.advanced to enable him to undertake with profit the studies
of the Junior year in law, he may enter the Elementary class,
the members of which are given instruction in the funda-
mental principles of the law for an hour each day. The
remainder of his time is devoted to study and recitation in
such of the collegiate courses as, in the opinion of the
authorities, may prove most useful and helpful in qualifying
him to enter as speedily as practicable upon the studies of
the Junior and Senior law classes.
A faithful discharge of the duties devolving upon the
students of these classes demands their entire time. Every
hour of the day can be devoted profitably to the work
assigned to them. Even the Postgraduate students, whose
time is devoted exclusively to law work, find it suf-
ficient to keep them very busy. And yet it seems that, in
an nidulgent spirit, an exception ought to be made in the
interest of such students as by previous study in other law
schools, or law offices, or actual practice as attorneys, have
acquired the right to be credited with work acceptably done,
or advanced standing in the course. It is deemed only fair
and proper to allow such as these to take electively any
additional studies they may choose in the regular or special
courses of the University. But this option may not be
exercised without permission and reasonable assurance that
it will not interfere with the work prescribed for students
of the Law Department.
The rule requiring regularity in class attendance is-
imperative. Once students enter a class they are expected
to remain in it for the session at least, faithfully performing
the duties it imposes upon them. They may thus, by coming
to Notre Dame to complete their legal studies, materially
add to their attainments in any other branches of knowledge
likely to be helpful to them in their practice as lawyers.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
139 '
This fact tends pertinently to illustrate the special advan-
tages to be derived from studying law at a university. There
the educational atmosphere is elevating, broadening, invig-
orating. It awakens a wholesome spirit of emulation. It
encourages the exercise of all the faculties and intellectual
powers. It serves as a potent and salutary force in the
development of mind and body. The impressive lesson it
inculcates relative to the past, the present and the future—
the manifold duties of life—necessarily directs the thoughtful
to paths of knowledge and usefulness. It awakens life-
directing forces that else would perhaps ever lie dormant.
It tends to turn thought and action toward high' ideals, the
acquisition of useful knowledge, sturdy self-reliance and a
strong sense of moral obligation in the consciousness of in-
creasing power and influence at the bar.
Students who do not intend to become candidates for the
degree of LL. B., but wish simply to add to their educational
acquirements a knowledge of the
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE LAW
may at any time during the year have their names enrolled
on the list of students in the Elementary class. No extra
expense is thereby incurred. However, such students must
be sufficiently advanced in age and education to justify the
belief that they can understand and appreciate instruction
in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily,
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that an edu-
cation is not complete without a knowledge of at least the
elementary principles of the law. Many a man in trade has
had to face financial ruin on account of want of acquaintance
with the fundamental legal principles. Although in theory,
at least, every person is presumed to know the law, yet many
a man has, by an inconsiderate act, due to his ignorance of
140
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
it, forfeited claim to the protection of the courts and the
vindication of his rights. Many a person has been forced to
do exactly the contrary of what he intended through his
failure to understand the essential elements of a contract.
Many a one has been compelled to pay heavy damages for
personal injuries caused by negligence, or failure to perform
a duty, or improper performance of it, where no liability
would exist if the law of torts had been known and
observed. As the law is over and around every creature
from the first moment of his being until the grave closes
upon him and his estate is settled, it would be impossible to
overestimate its vital interest and importance. Indeed, there
is no study that can at all compare with it in practical utility,
in training the mind to accuracy of observation, in strength-
ening the judgment and in imparting to the faculties the
power of discernment implied in what may be called common
sense.
A period of three years is prescribed for under-graduates
in the
COURSE OF STUDY
in the Law Department of this University. It leads when
satisfactorily completed to the degree of LL. B. The Post-
graduate course comprises an additional or fourth year, and
leads to the degree of LL. M. By its charter this University
is empowered to confer these and all other degrees apper-
taining to the courses of study in educational institutions of
the highest rank. There is no university that has greater
power under the law in this respect.
The under-graduate law students are divided into three
classes, corresponding to each year of the course leading to
the degree of LL. B. They are known respectively as the
Elementary, Junior and Senior classes. The Postgraduate
course is for students who have received that degree and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
141
aim at attaining by further study and practical work to a
higher order of proficiency. A full year of study in each
class is obligatory. Moreover, the student must pass a satis-
factory general examination at the close of each scholastic
year. This test is indispensable as a condition of promotion
in the Elementary and Junior classes and as evidence of
qualifications for graduation in the Senior class.
The subjects of study and the work to be done in each
class are here briefly outlined:
ELEMENTARY CLASS—FIRST YEAR.
An hour daily is given to instruction, recitation and work
in the class-room during the first year. The class-room,
commodious and well appointed, is in the main building.
The regular course of instruction consists in text-book work,
lectures, quizzes, written exercises and attendance at moot-
court trials and society meetings. The books primarily used
are Blackstone's and Kent's Commentaries. Other works of
elementary law are also used, as occasion may require. Such
are chosen as seem best adapted and most available for pur-
poses of instruction. Of these mention may be made of
Walker's American Law, Smith's Elementary Law,Munson's
Elementary Practice, Keener's Selections on Jurisprudence,
Holland's Elements of Jurisprudence, Robinson's Elements
of American Jurisprudence, Fishback's Manual of Ele-
mentary Law, and the like. The recently published edition
of Blackstone's Commentaries by Dr. William Draper Lewis,
is justly regarded as the best and most complete known to
the profession, although the chart feature of Blickenderfer's
Abridgment of Blackstone is much appreciated by students.
Browne's Blackstone, too, is a carefully prepared summary
in one volume of the essential elements of the original work.
Browne's Edition of Kent's Commentaries is also a useful
summary in one volume of the original treatise. However,
142
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
it is usually safer for students to purchase their books after
joining the class. Uniformity is thus assured, as well as
lowest current prices. This suggestion applies not only to
the Elementary students, but also to the Juniors and Seniors.
Persons who desire to become members of the Elementary
class must be at least eighteen years of age and entittled to
collegiate standing in their general education. However,
ample opportunity is afforded them to pursue such additional
studies as may seem useful in preparing for a successful
career in the law. For example, a knowledge of Latin,
Logic, History, Political Economy, and the like, would be
helpful to them. Other subjects also, in which they ma)z
either regard themselves as deficient or wish to excel, may
likewise be entered on their lists of studies. Should it be
deemed necessary or advisable for them to perfect themselves
in these studies, whether one year or several years be requi-
site, it would be entirely practicable meanwhile to attend the
exercises of the Elementary class. Work thus done would
necessarily serve to broaden and deepen the foundation of
subsequent work in the Junior and Senior years, making it
peculiarly effective and promising. The work done in this
class is exceptionally interesting and instructive for begin-
ners, and there is sufficient change in it annually to sustain
interest and make attendance profitable, though continued
for two or more years.
JUNIOR CLASS—SECOND YEAR.
When a student enters this class his close attention, and
earnest thought, and best efforts must be directed exclusively
to the study of law. Fie must attend class exercises at least
three hours daily. This he must do for the entire scholastic
year. Otherwise he cannot be regarded as entitled to promo-
tion to the Senior class. He must do the full work of the
year if he would advance with his class and share its honors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
143
If the student be a collegiate Postgraduate in the Classics,
Sciences, Letters, or the like, or has attained to equivalent
acquirements and standing by work and experience in pro-
fessional pursuits, or lines of thought and study kindred to
the law, he may be eligible primarily to membership in this
class. In such case it would be necessary for him to under-
take and perform the most essential work of the Elementary
class in addition to his other duties. The practicability of
the undertaking may be inferred from the fact that it is
sought to do in this class fully the work of a year and a half,
as gauged by the courses of other educational institutions.
That this has been done in many instances cannot be doubted,
although there has never been special reference to any other
institution, with a view to comparison, or as an incentive to
exceptional effort. Presumably the result is due to a pro-
gressive system of instruction, more recitations daily, a
greater number of hours for study and the purpose of each
member of the Faculty to do his best in the performance of
duty. But, notwithstanding these facts, it is necessary for
many of the students, no matter how well advanced or
finished their education, to take the full course of three years,
^he fact that they might accomplish in two years all that is
ordinarily done in three, makes no difference. This is due to
the action of courts and legislatures in many of the States.
A rule has been established requiring three years of actual
study of the law as a prerequisite to applying for admission
to the bar. Persons from these States must take the full
three years’ course, including the Elementary class. How-
ever, if thenr general education be finished, and it seem
superfluous to do further collegiate work, they may select in
preference the Junior, Senior and Postgraduate years as
covering the time required for study in the States in which
they intend to practice. Of course, this question will not
144
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
arise in States that require only two years of study, and
students from such States who are entitled to postgraduate
standing ought to be able to do in two years the ordinary
work of three, and thus qualify themselves in that time to
undergo without difficulty the most rigorous examination
for admission to the bar.
In arranging the course of study it is sought to take
subjects in their logical sequence. The less difficult, though
by no means the less important, come in the Junior year,
while the more technical are dealt with in the Senior year,
except in the case of Pleadings and Evidence. A knowl-
edge of these renders moot court work intelligible and
profitable to an exceptional degree, and hence they enter
into the plan of instruction in the Junior year. The moot
court practice is an important factor in the course of instruc-
tion for all the classes, and there can be no question regard-
ing the advisability of learning and applying the rules of
pleading and evidence at as early a date as practicable.
Following are the chief subjects of study in the Junior year
and the names of some of the authors of text-books dealing
writh them:
The Common and Statutory Laws, with Exercises in Case
Reading and Statutory Construction.
Black on Interpretation of Laws, Bishop's Written Lazo,
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Curtis' Federal
Statutes.
Persons and Domestic Relations.
Tiffany, Dwight, Schouler, Reeves, Rodgers.
The Law of Contracts.
Clark, Lawson, Bishop, Beach, Anson, Parsons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
143
The Law of Torts.
Hale, laggard, Cooley, Hilliard, Addison, Bishop's Non-
Contract Lazo.
Criminal Law and Procedure.
Clark, Bishop, Heard, May, Hazvley & McCregor, Wash-
burn, Wharton, Stephen.
Medical Jurisprudence.
Reese, Dean, Beck, Taylor.
Common Law Pleadings.
Shipman, Gould, Stephen, Shinn, Heard, Chitty, Perry.
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Bliss, Maxwell, Boone, Phillips, Thompson on Trials,
Elliott's General Practice, Elliott's Appellate Procedure,
Foster's First Book of Practice, Estee's Pleadings.
Evidence.
Iones, Underhill, Greenleaf, Wharton, Reynolds, Roscoe,
Starkie, Stephen, Best, Lawson on Expert and Opinion
Evidence.
Sales.
Tiffany, Tiedeman, Benjamin.
Insurance.
May, Elliott, Wood, Bliss, Joyce.
Agency.
Mechem, Evans, Story, Wharton.
Partnership.
Bates, George, Lindley, Parsons, Pollock.
It would be supererogatory to enumerate the subdivisions
or branches of the subjects mentioned. All of them, how-
146
UNIVERSITY C.F NOTRE DAME.
ever, receive due attention and are fully explained. And it
may be stated that, with a view to enabling students to
obviate the expense of purchasing many books, subjects of
brief compass are taught, as may seem practicable, by means
of lectures, case reading, quizzes, theses and moot court
trials. But should text-books be preferred at any time,
resort may be had to their use.
SENIOR CLASS—THIRD YEAR.
So much of what has been stated with reference to the
preceding classes is applicable also to students of the Senior
year that it will be unnecessary to enlarge on the nature of
their work. A detailed description of it might involve
repetition to some extent, and thus become tedious. Those
eligible to membership are such as have satisfactorily
finished the studies of the first and second years and earned
the right to promotion. However, in compliance with a
custom generally recognized by the leading universities,
lawyers in good standing who desire to join the class, in
order to broaden and systematize their knowledge of the
law, are also admitted to it. On passing a satisfactory
examination at the end of the year they become, like other
students, entitled to the degree of LL. B. And the same
courtesy is extended to students of good moral character
who have acceptably finished the work of two years in law
schools or law departments of other universities. The
leading subjects of study, together with the names of the
authors of some of the text-books treating of them, are
here presented:
Equity Jurisprudence.
Fetter, Tiedeman, Eaton, Snell, Story, Adams, Merwin.
Equity Pleadings and Practice.
Shipman, Shinn, Story, Lube, Shipp & Daish.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
147
International Law.
Glenn, Hall, Story, Vattel, Woolsey, Wheaton, Halleck.
Constitutional Law.
Black, Cooley, Von Flolst, Desty, Story, Hamilton, Madi-
son and Jay in the Federalist.
Private and Municipal Corporations.
Clark, Elliott, Beach, Field, Angell & Ames, Dillon,
Tiedeman, Wild.
Personal Property.
Tiedemen, Darlington, Schouler, Smith, Williams.
Real Property.
Hopkins, Tiedemen, Williams, Washburn, Willard,
Boone.
Wills, Executors and Administrators.
Croswell, Redfield, Jarman, O'Hara, Wigram.
Bailments and Common Carriers.
Hale, Hutchinson, Edwards, Schouler, Story.
Negotiable Instruments or Commercial Paper.
Norton, Tiedemen, Daniel, Chalmers, Randolph.
Suretyship and Guaranty.
Brandt, Baylies, De Colyar, Pitman, Pingrey.
The subdivisions of the principal subjects indicated in the
preceding list are, of course, included in the general terms
designating those subjects, and it is unnecessary specially to
enumerate them. For example it would be superflous to
refer specifically to Arbitration, Demand, Estoppel, Injunc-
tion, Insolvency, Protest, Assessment, Taxation, Manda-
mus, Quo Warranto, Ultra Vires, Recoupment, Set-off,
14S	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Counterclaim, Debtor and Creditor, and the like, for they
are carefully considered and fully explained in connection
with the broader subjects to which they relate.
The subjects of study are not necessarily taken, one by
one, in consecutive order, as given in the list. Three or four
of them may engage the attention apd demand the work of
the class at the same time. To illustrate: The class meets
for recitation three or four times daily:—say once or twice
in the forenoon and twice in the afternoon. International
Law may be chosen for the morning hour, special work in
office business or court practice afterward, Constitutional
Law the first hour in the afternoon and Municipal or Pri-
vate Corporations later. Once a subject is chosen for a
particular class, whether first, second, third or fourth in the
daily routine, it is continued exclusively in the same class,
without break or interruption, until finished.
The special work indicated consists in conveyancing,
preparation of pleadings, the manner of taking appeals and
office business generally. It is intended more particularly
for the Seniors and Postgraduates. The Senior students are
expected to devote approximately twenty hours a week to
recitations or class work.
By the system outlined in the foregoing paragraph it is
sought to keep each subject before the mind of the student
until he firmly grasps and understands it. Thus it becomes
distinctively and permanently fixed in the mind. The prac-
tice of teaching to the same class one subject one day,
another the next, and still another the day following, as
where non-resident professors, each with a different sub-
ject, follow daily one the other, finds no encouragement at
Notre Dame. Such blending of subjects and intermingling
of principles manifestly tend to confusion of thought and
chaos of subject-matter. It is admittedly very difficult in
UNIVERSITY 01? NOTRE DAME.
149
such case to comprehend and understand the law as a
symmetrical whole—a system majestic and beautiful in its
harmonious entirety.
POSTGRADUATE COURSE—FOURTH YEAR.
Only graduates in law are admitted to this course. But
these may be from any other university in good standing,
as well as from our own Law Department. A year can
very profitably be given to the work prescribed for gradua-
tion in it. The degree conferred is that of Master of Laws.
The work of this course is eminently practical and of the
greatest possible utility to those who intend to engage in
the practice of the profession on their own account at an
early date, and not to give two or three years of probation
to the drudgery of a clerkship at small salary in some office.
Every year of study greatly increases the interest of the
student ‘ in the law and his power to understand it. If
bright and industrious, he ought to do as much effective
work while a Senior as he did during the two preceding
years, and his capacity to learn ought to increase in corre-
sponding ratio in the Postgraduate course. By working
earnestly and devotedly during the year he can review the
studies of the preceding three years and confidently reach
out in other directions to acquire additional knowledge.
The nature of his work and the subjects of his study may be
briefly indicated:
Stibdy of the Statutes and System of Pleadings of his State.
Practice in taking Depositions.
Frequent Participation in Moot Court Trials..
Arguments on Motions for New Trials.
Preparation of Bills of Exceptions, Briefs, Records and
Abstracts of Records in Appeals.
The Framing of Arguments for a Rehearing.
150
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Duties of Masters in Chancery, Referees and Arbitrators.
Duties of Assignees and Receivers ; also, of Public Officers.
Examination of Abstracts of Title and the Making of
Deeds, Mortgages, Leases, etc., in Conveyancing.
A Critical Study of Pleadings, vith Reference to Forms
and Substance.
Jurisdiction of the Federal Courts.
The Roman Law and Comparative Jurisprudence.
The exercises of the class in office work are attended not
only by the students of the Postgraduate course, but also by
the Seniors. From a practical point of view, these exercises
are highly important, and the change in them annually is
sufficient to suggest novelty and make them highly interest-
ing and instructive to the students of succeeding years, as
where Seniors finish the Postgraduate course. This work
includes the examination of abstracts of title, practical
examples in conveyancing, a critical study of the different
forms of pleadings and the general business of a successfully
conducted law office. While even one year of study in this
class is admittedly very helpful, if not actually necessary,
yet the benefits and advantages that accrue from attending
a second year cannot well be overestimated.
THE COMMON LAW.
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the law gener-
ally prevailing throughout the Union—the law that obtains
in the States. It addresses itself to almost all the relations
of life. In fact, about nineteen out of every twenty cases
tried in our courts are decided in accordance with its princi-
ples. It is generally uniform in its operation. However,
the statutory enactments of State legislatures overcome and
displace it, so far as they conflict with its provisions. These
enactments'differ materially in the different States, owing
to unlike conditions and local differences. Thus it is that
o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	151
the laws of certain States are so radically unlike the laws of
other States. Of course, there are instances in which
statutes are passed to cover acts and conditions not provided
for by the common law; but in most instances the existing
statutes simply declare, qualify or render inoperative some
of its rules.
In view of these facts, thorough instruction is here given
in the common law. Neither lawyers nor judges pretend to
know the statutes of any other State than of that in' which
they practice or preside. In fact, a knowledge of the statutes
of different States would be more confusing and bewildering
than profitable to judges, lawyers and students. Moreover,
they are liable to be radically changed from time to time
by legislative bodies representing diverse political interests
and opinions. In an examination for admission to the bar
of this or any other State, no question is put and nothing is
said relative to the statutes of sister States. In fact, the
States are treated as foreign to one another in law. There
are, however, certain fundamental statutory enactments that
exist without material diversity in their scope and purpose
in almost all the States. Again, other statutes somewhat
less important and fundamental in character exist in groups
of States. Such statutes as these may be profitably studied
in class, in connection with the common law; but it would
be worse than useless for a student to attempt to investigate
and study the mazes of statutory differences in the several
States. Hence, it is suggested as advisable for each of the
Senior and Postgraduate students to procure and have with
him for independent study when he comes in September a
copy of the revised statutes of his State or of the State in
which he intends to practice.
GRADUATES
of the Law Department have met with exceptional success,
it has been noted, in passing examinations for admission to
152
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the bar. Nevertheless, it may be in point to state that it
ought hereafter to be comparatively easy for them to meet
the requirements of the severest tests in that line, in view
of the increase in the number of daily recitations and the
lengthening of the period of instruction. By way of show-
ing the full accord and co-operation of the Faculty in that
regard with the bar and the bench of the country, attention
may be drawn to the following authoritative expression on
the subject, which is embodied in a resolution passed by the
American Bar Association in 1897:
“Resolved, That the American Bar Association approves the
lengthening of the course of instruction in law schools to a period of
three years, and that it expresses the hope that as soon as practicable
a rule may be adopted in each State, which will require candidates
for admission to the bar to study law for three years before applying
for admission.”
It would certainly be disappointing now to meet a gradu-
ate timid at the prospect of an examination. With the
right spirit and proper training, he ought to face it cheer-
fully and unhesitatingly. However, the Supreme Court of
Indiana has adopted a rule providing for the admission of
graduates of this Department on motion, or without exami-
nation. Under this rule they may, being voters, present
themselves before the Judges of the Court, exhibit their
diplomas, and, on motion of some attorney, followed by the
administration to them of the oath of office, be admitted by
proper order to the bar, receiving the certificates of licensed
attorneys, and having their name inscribed on the “roll of
honor” of the Court. This contains the names of those
who furnish evidence of having satisfactorily finished the
study of law before applying for admission to the bar.
Recently, too, the Board of Examiners of Wisconsin ac-
credited our Law Department as on an equality in the
matter of thoroughness with that of their State University,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
153
and the law graduates of Notre Dame may now be admitted
to the bar of that State on presentation of their diplomas
to the Board for indorsement.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings on Saturday evenings. All students of
the Department are members of it. They are required,
each in his turn, to participate in its debates and other
exercises. The debates commonly deal with questions
germane to the law. However, subjects of history, political
economy, and the like, are also in favor. An excellent
opportunity is afforded at the meetings of the society to
develop skill, power and fluency in public speaking. The
graces of the elocutionist and the persuasive powers of the
orator may here be cultivated and strengthened. All can
increase in force and fluency of thought and expression by
attending regularly and participating' in the exercises of this
society. Officers are elected twice yearly by the students
themselves. They select also a competent critic to note the
mistakes made in pronunciation or otherwise by the speakers
at each meeting, and to read a carefully prepared paper
correcting the same at the meeting following. A Professor
presides, aids the members by his counsel and suggestions,
and decides the questions under discussion on the merits of
the arguments.
THE LAW LIBRARY
adjoins and communicates directly with the Lecture Room,
in Sorin Hall. Students have uninterrupted access to it at
all reasonable hours. They may frequent it as often as they
choose for the purpose of studying cases, preparing for
moot court trials, finding authorities for their monthly
theses, referring to the cases cited in the text-books and
lectures, or reading the standard treatises. Every decision
154
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
rendered for many years by the State, Territorial and
Federal courts may here be found. Consequently, not to
repeat other reasons already stated, students are not
required to purchase as many law books as they are obliged
to have in other places. The books in the Library may be
used by the law students in common as freely as can reason-
ably be wished, and without charge. The same is true in
respect to the vast collection of miscellaneous books in the
Lemonnier Library. Law books may be taken from the
Library to the Lecture Room for use in moot court trials,
but must afterward be returned. All students have an
equal right to use them, being as it were tenants in com-
mon in that regard; but any disposition to invade the
common right, whether through selfishness or thoughtless-
ness, by attempting to make exclusive use of them, as in
placing them under cover in desks or taking them to private
rooms, must be vigilantly guarded against and impartially
discountenanced. Students have an undoubted right to
expect that when they need any particular book they can
find it in the Library, andhiot be compelled to lose valuable
time in making inquiry or searching for it elsewhere.
No discrimination is made between law students and
students of the regular collegiate courses in the matter of
EXPENSES.
The fee for tuition, board, lodging, washing, mending,
etc., is fixed at $300 for the scholastic year. This covers
all real necessaries, and, considering the excellent accommo-
dations at Notre Dame, is believed to be very reasonable. It
is said that students elsewhere must pay from $400 to $500
a year for like services and accommodations. The cost of
books may be estimated approximately at $7 for the first
year and $20 each for the second and third years. Students
have but little occasion or opportunity to spend money or to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
155
cultivate expensive habits; for they study, board and lodge
at the University, in an atmosphere favorable to earnest
work, and quite apart from the associations and temptations
incident to city life. Terms of payment and other pertinent
information may be found elsewhere in this catalogue, under
the general caption “Expenses.n It may, perhaps,be well
to anticipate possible inquiries by stating that no additional
charge is made for attending or becoming students of classes
in the collegiate courses.
DISCIPLINE.
The Law students, as well as all others, are expected to
be earnest and industrious in the performance of the duties
devolving upon them, and to secure this end and the fullest
possible utilization of time the same rules of discipline
apply to all the students. These rules require promptitude
and regularity in class attendance, uprightness in conduct
and manliness in deportment. Obedience to them tends to
strengthen character, establish wholesome habits and nourish
in heart and mind the qualities that mark the true gentleman
and persevering scholar, the honored citizen and successful
lawyer, the independent thinker and firm believer in the
illimitable possibilities of industry, perseverance and self-
reliance to win the crown of illustrious achievements in the
domain of life.
156
UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
This Course can be completed in two years. It includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United
States history, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-
keeping, Commercial Law—in other words, all the branches
of a complete business education.
When the character and needs of the country are consid-
ered, this course will appear the most practical, and one of
the most important that an educational institution can afford.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to take
a complete college course in the Classics or Sciences, would
do well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No
plan of study is more injudicious than a haphazard selection
of such studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy.
The training resulting from a fixed course of studies is of
the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always
received the most careful attention from the officers
and the Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims
to give the graduates of this course a more complete busi-
ness training than can be obtained in any purely commercial
college. Believing that a business education includes some-
thing more that a mere knowledge of book-keeping, and
that a good education cannot be obtained in a few weeks,
the authorities have extended this course over two years—
the shortest time in which studies necessarily used in busi-
ness life can be mastered. Should a pupil desire during
this period to pursue any other studies in which he may be
interested, and for which he has time, he will have liberty
to do so.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
157
General History and Linear Drawing are especially
recommended to students of this department. They also
have an opportunity of attending an elementary course of
the Physical and Natural Sciences. Many students find
it also to their advantage to keep up the study of German or
French, for which there are the amplest facilities. A talented
and studious young man may thus in the course of two years
find himself in the possession of a most valuable practical
education, which will fit him to take his place in the front
rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
i.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—To Decimal
Fractions (exclusive). Normal Union Arithmetic, Brooks.
2.	Grammar—To Irregular Verbs (inclusive). Re-
vised English Grammar.
3.	Letter Writing.
4.	Reading and Orthography.
5.	Geography—General Geography of the World;
Special Geography of the United States.
6.	United States History—Through the French and
Indian War.
7.	Penmanship.
SECOND TERM.
1.	Arithmetic—Decimal Fractions; Denominate Num-
bers; Practical Measurements. Normal Union Arithme-
tic, Brooks.
158
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
2.	Grammar—From Irregular Verbs to Syntax. Re-
vised English Grammar.
3.	Letter Writing.
4.	Reading and Orthography.
5.	Geography—Special Geography of South America,
Europe, Asia, and Africa.
6.	United States History—From the French and
Indian War to the present time.
7.	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
1.	Arithmetic—Percentage; Ratio and Proportion; as
far as Involution and Evolution. Normal Union Arithme
tic, Brooks.
2.	Bookkeeping—Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions ; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry; Retailing by Double
Entry; special practice in writing Business Paper and Busi-
ness Forms. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and
Rogers.
3.	Grammar—Syntax. Revised English Grammar.
4.	Letter Writing.
5.	Reading and Orthography.
6.	Penmanship.
SECOND TERM.
1.	Arithmetic—Percentage, Ratio and Proportion (re-
viewed) ; Involution and Evolution; Arithmetical and
Geometrical Series; Higher Percentage; Mensuration;
Arithmetical Analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks. ‘
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
159
2.	Bookkeeping—Single Entry, changing Single to
Double Entry; Retailing; Wholesaling; Shipping and Com-
mission; Jobbing; Manufacturing; Installment and State
Agencies; Joint Stock Companies; Banking; Railroading;
Steamboating; Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting,
Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of Exchange.
New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and Rogers.
3.	Composition—Study of the Theory of English Com-
position ; frequent exercise in Essay and Letter Writing,
etc. The Foundations of Rhetoric.
4.	Orthography.
5.	Commercial Law—General principles of Contracts;
Agency; Partnership; Corporations; Guaranty; Sale of
Goods; Negotiable Paper. Richardson.
6.	Penmanship.
160
UNIVERSITY OB’ NOTRE DAME.
. PREPARATORY COURSE.
-A?
First Year.
FIRST TERM.
Latin—Latin Grammar, Etymology, Bennett. Rudiments
of Latin, Reynolds. Viri Romae.
English—Grammar; Etymology; Themes.
History—United States History to the end of the Revo-
lutionary War.
Geography—General Geography of the World. Special
Geography of the United States.
Mathematics—Arithmetic, Fractions.
SECOND TERM.
Latin—Continuation of First Term work.
English—(a) Grammar: Etymology continued. (&)
Reading in Class: Longfellow’s Tales of a Way side Inn;
Stevenson’s Treasure Island; Defoe’s Robinson Crusoe.
(c)Themes: Subject matter taken from Longfellow’s Tales
of a Wayside Inn; Original Composition. The dictionary
required throughout the Preparatory Courses is the Stan-
dard, English Dictionary (Student’s Edition.)
History—United States Flistory, from the Revolution-
ary War to the present time.
Geography—Special Political Geography of Europe,
Asia and Africa, with outlines of the Physical Geography.
Mathematics—Arithmetic, from Fractions to Com-
pound Numbers.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,	161
SECOND YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
Latin—Grammar; Etymology reviewed and general
rules of Syntax. Bennett. Caesar; Gallic War, Books I. and
IL ; Composition—based on the text of Cassar.
Greek—Grammar: Etymology. Goodwin's. Exercises,
First Greek Book, White. (For Classical Students only.)
English—(a) Grammar: Syntax, Revised English Gram-
mar. (&) Readings in class: Scott’s The Lady of the Lake;
Longfellow’s Evangeline; Irving’s Sketch Book; Newman’s
Callista. Themes : subject matter taken from the books read
in class; Original Composition.
Mathematics—Arithmetic, from Compound Numbers
to Percentage.
French and German begun by candidates for Engineer-
ing and Scientific Courses. (See entrance requirements of
these Courses.)
SECOND TERM.
Latin—Caesar, Gallic War, Books III. and IV.; Com-
position, based on Caesar’s text; Grammar, Syntax finished,
Bennett.	■
Greek—Grammar: Etymology Completed. Exercises,
First Greek Book, White; Gospel of St. Luke; Selections,
Gate to the Anabasis, Gleason.
English—-Work of the First term continued.
Mathematics—Arithmetic, from Percentage and Invo-
lution.
Algebra—This Course is designed for beginners in
Algebra, and comprises a complete study of the primary
operations and fundamental principles of the science;
162
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
thorough drill work in Composition and Factoring; Highest
Common Factor and Lowest Common Multiple. When
competency is assured in these subjects, the principles of
Fractions are considered; also exercises in reduction of
Complex Fractions.
£
FIRST TERM.
Latin—Sallust: Catiline; Composition based on text of
Sallust; Grammar, review, Bennett; Ovid: Metamorphoses.
Greek—Grammar, Goodwin’s Etymology reviewed; Syn-
tax. Xenophon’s Anabasis. Prose composition, based on
the text of the Anabasis.
English—Rhetoric, Hill’s F oundations of Rhetoric; His-
tory of American Literature, Painter’s Introduction to
American Literature; Themes, application to Rhetoric;
Readings in Class: Tennyson’s Princess, Professor Cook’s
text; Milton’s Paradise Lost, Books I. and IL, U Allegro,
Il Penseroso, Lycidas.
Algebra—This Course begins with a study of the Equa-
tion and Methods of Transformation and solution of Simple
Equations; solution of problems of one and two unknown
qualities; Fractional Equations; Simultaneous Equations
of the first degree, and solution of problems of two or more
unknown quantities. Then are considered elementary cases
of Indeterminate Problems, discussion of problems and
Inequalities; principles of Involution and Evolution, and
theory of Exponents; Radical and Imaginary Expressions;
Quadratic Surds; Radical Equations and Solution of
Problems.
Geometry, Plane—The whole subject of Plane Geome-
try as given in Wentworth’s New Plane and Solid Geometry.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
163
The solution of original problems and theorems constitute
the greater part of the Course. The student’s proficiency
is determined by examinations in which he is required to
devise proofs of original and independent propositions.
(a)	Elementary Chemistry—An Introductory Course
of experimental lectures on familiar subjects such as water,
the air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up to
discussions of the more important elements and their proper-
ties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena of Chemistry.
Reference-book, Remsen.
(b)	Experienced Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course a. A series of exercises to be performed
by each student, and having as their main object the culti-
vation of the student’s powers of observation and faculty of
inductive reasoning. These exercises comprise a study of
the principal metallic elements, including their preparation,
properties, and more familiar compounds. The directions
for each experiment are made as brief as possible, the obser-
vation of facts and the drawing of correct conclusions there-
from being left, so far as the nature of the experiment will
permit, to the pupil.
Physics, Elementary—A Course of recitations and
lectures, including Mechanics, Heat, Sound, Light,
Electricity and Magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by
experiments.
Physiology—Elementary.
Botany—Elementary.
History—(a) United States.
(b) General outlines. See page 94.
SECOND TERM.
Latin—Cicero,	Catilinaria; Composition based on
164
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Cicero’s text; Virgil, Eclogites or Georgies; Prosody; Scan-
sion of Hexameter Verse.
Greek—Grammar: General Rules of Syntax. Xenophon,
Anabasis entire; Composition based on the text of the
Anabasis.
English—Continuation of the First Term work.
Algebra—This Course begins with a review of Radicals.
Then follow a study of Pure and Affected Quadratic Equa-
tions and Simultaneous Quadratics; solution of problems
involving Quadratics; Arithmetical and Geometrical Pro-
gressions; discussion of Simple Indeterminate Equations
and exercises. Solution of problems is rigidly enforced and
numerous original exercises are added to supplement the
work.
Geometry, Solid—Theorems pertaining to Planes and
Polyhedral Angles, Polyhedrons, the Cylinder, Cone and
Sphere. The study of Spherical Angles, Spherical Surfaces,
the Measure of Spherical Surfaces, receive all the attention
necessary to familiarize the student with this important and
practical part of Geometry. Solution of original exercises,
proofs of independent propositions and examinations.
History—See First Term.
Zoology—Elementary.
Minim Department.
166
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
For the care and training of boys under the age of thir-
teen years, there has been established a department to which
the most scrupulous attention has always been paid by the
college authorities: it is known as the Minim Department.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the ele-
mentary branches of an English education is here imparted,
together with a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French
and German. Vocal Music and Drawing involve no extra
charge. The pupils of this department are taught by Sisters
of the Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day: Rising at 6 40 a. m.,
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short
time given for exercise on the campus; half-past seven,
study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, study; a quarter to
twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-
past one, study; half-past three, recreation and luncheon;
half-past six, supper and recreation; half-past eight, retiring.
From this it may be seen that while the Minims devote less
than six hours a day to study, there are never more than
two hours in succession in the class-room. The recreation
and exercise in the fresh air between each two hours of
study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to
their classes refreshed and ready for work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTES DAME.
167
The Minims are always under supervision, during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and study-
hall. The presence, however, of the prefect is far from
being- a restraint on the amusement of the boys; for while it
is the duty of the prefects to insist that their young charges
shall always keep within the limits of the strictest propriety,
they, at the same time, take part in all sports, organize
games, and do everything in their power to foster the love
of exercise. The play-ground is a broad, level, five-
acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings, ladders, .
rings, parallel-bars, and all other necessary gymnastic appar-
atus. That the boys make good use of them can be seen
from their healthy, happy appearance, which invariably
attracts the notice of visitors. Connected with the play-
ground is a brick play-hall, 160 feet long and heated by
steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the
clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and con-
venience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few days.
Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care is taken
that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the clothing be
. suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES.
There are two societies in the Minim department; that of
the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its
object to supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin
Association, which has been established with a view to give
the pupils a start, as early as possible, in elocution. The
siciety is presided over by one of the professors, who finds it
a pleasant duty to draw out the talent of these interesting
young orators. Meetings are held once a week, after school
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well as
168
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only the
best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to
membership. To encourage this young Literary Society, a
Gold Medal for Elocution is annually awarded at Commence-
ment to the most deserving; member.
GENERAL REMARKS.
The discipline to which the minims are subjected is much
milder than that which is suited to students more advanced
in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punishment.
Those in charge endeavor to govern by kindness and
gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense of honor.
The names of all whose conduct and application to studies
are satisfactory appear under the heads of Roll of Honor and
Class Honors. To find his name mentioned in these rolls, is
found to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil, as its
non-appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, too, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to those whose deportment has been unex-
ceptionable during that period. As this fact is made known
to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he generally
endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to receiving an
“Honor.” The greatest care is taken to form their young
hearts to habits of virtue, and to inculcate the practice of
refined manners. Every effort is made to foster respect and
affection for parents, to whom they are expected to write at
least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims,
is their complete separation from the larger students.
A commodious building known as St. Edward’s Hall,
affording ample accommodations for over one hundred
pupils,, is devoted to their use. It is four stories in height,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	169
one hundred and fifty feet long, and forty-five feet wide;
heated by steam, supplied throughout with the Edison incan-
descent electric light, and provided with hot and cold water.
The ceilings in the Study-Hall, Class-Rooms and sleeping
apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large and
numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The
Study-Hall commands a charming view from each of its
eleven large windows. It is tastefullly decorated with
statuary, pictures, plants, etc. Beside the pleasure the
Minims derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall,
their tastes are cultured by coming in contact with objects so
refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park, which,
with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not a little to
the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall as well as to the happiness
of its inmates.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents
and others who frequently write for more detailed informa-
tion, will show that, while the Minims have every advantage
to aid them in acquiring a foundation for future study,
they have ahome, where they enjoy the same ease and free-
dom that they would enjoy under the care of their mothers.
170
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
&
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance). .. .$ 10.00
Board, Tuition, etc., per session of ten months. .. . 250.00
The above rates are payable in advance as follows;
On entrance in September -	$150.00
January 15th -	-	-	100.00
Extras Optional.
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons,
and the use of instrument in this department is $35.00; for
Violin, Guitar or Mandolin, $25.00.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40.00.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if
not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Each pupil, on entering this department should have six
shirts, four pairs of drawers, three night shirts, twelve
pocket handkerchiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two
hats or caps, two pairs of shoes, two suits of clothes for
winter, two suits for summer, one overcoat, toilet articles,
etc. This direction concerning clothing is a suggestion, not
a regulation.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
171
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
From September, 1901, to June I, 1902.
In this list are not included the names of those students
who are dismissed or withdrawn at the request of the
College authorities during the scholastic year.
Alt, John F..........................
Aguirre, Enrique.....................
Avila, Jose .........................
Arana, Victor M......................
Acosta, Rafael.......................
Askanas, Jacob S.....................
Abadia, Augustin J...................
Antoine, Laurence M..................
Illinois.
Mexico.
Mexico.
Peru, So. America.
Yucatan, Mexico.
Missouri.
Cuba.
Illinois.
Bassett, Royl
Indiana.
Bau.de, Francis H.... .......................Illinois.
Indiana.
Ohio.
Pennsylvania.
Pennsylvania.
Kentucky.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Indiana.
Bertling, John Francis.............
Beers, Herbert A...................
Brennan, Joseph....................
Brennan, Francis...................
Boyce, McKeen......................
Bonns, Rexford..................:. .
Browne, Walker S...................
Butler, James A....................
Burke, Chares E........................Illinois.
Boyle, Joseph J........................Iowa.
Burke, Joseph	H....................Wisconsin.
Burke, Eugene	P....................Illinois.
Brown, Henry	E....................Indiana.
Barry, Francis	J....................Illinois.
Burkitt, George W......................Texas.
Burke, Francis P. .. ..................Wisconsin.
Baca, Eustacio C.......................New Mexico.
Bosworth, Alvah C......................Illinois.
172
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Brand, Harry P........
Benson, Richard R...
Brown, Charles E....
Berggren, Henry R.. .
Burger, Anthony J...
Brown, Maurice J....
Berkley, Charles M...
Berkley, Alfred J.....
Baker, Clarence F....
Boyle, Kyran J........
Baldwin, Henry B....
Beacom, Patrick A...
Borja, Camilo.........
Breen, Edward L.......
Brauchler, Wm. F.. ..
Bailey, Francis P.. ..
Bailey, John J........
Bergan, Francis J.....
Beechinor, Herbert M.
Barrett, Ordo S.......
Butler, Philip B......
Bolger, William A.. .
Brown, Edward P....
Baker, Leonard D. ...
. Bauman, E. Walter...
Best, Arthur C.........
Best, Louis E..........
Brent, Francis C.......
Bescher, Robert H...
Boscowitz, Hostilio N
Barry, Arthur J........
Browne, Paul...........
Barker, Fred C.........
Baer, Fred L...........
Curry, John P.........
Crowley, Timothy J..
Collins, Harry........
Corbett, James J......
Corcoran, Joseph B.. .
Corcoran, Wendell P.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Nebraska.
New York.
.Indiana.
Missouri.
Missouri.
Michigan.
Pennsylvania.
Iowa.
Ecuador, So. America.
.New York.
.Ohio.
Indiana.
.Indiana.
Indiana.
.New York.
.Indiana.
.Canada.
Michigan.
Minnesota.
Kentucky.
.Ohio.
Montana.
.Montana.
Florida.
Ohio.
Cuba.
Illinois.
.Indiana.
Minnesota.
Pennsylvania.
Connecticut.
Indiana.
Illinois.
.Illinois.
.Illinois.
Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
173
Cunningham, William F.............Illinois.
Curran, John......................Kentucky.
Cannon, Dominic J.................Pennsylvania.
Church, Charles M......'..........Iowa.
Micnigan.
Massachusetts.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Mexico.
Mexico.
Carey, Louis J.......................
Collins, Daniel E....................
Crimmins, Timothy....................
Crumley, Harry V.....................
Celis, F. Javier.....................
Cano, Florencio......................
Indiana.
West Virginia.
Missouri.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Pennsylvania.
Galmoy, Ireland.
Illinois.
Illinois.
.Mexico.
Carton, James A.......................
Campbell, Matthew A...................
Corley, John L........................
Carroll, Charles......................
Conboy, Francis J.....................
Cullinan, Charles J...................
Cullinan, Joseph J....................
Corbridge, Albert.....................
Chandler, Henry J.....................
Castillo, Manuel......................
Clarke,	Robert R.......................Illinois.
Cuesta,	Bona Ventura...................Cuba.
Cuesta,	Ramon..........................Cuba.
Callico,	James..........................Cuba.
Cahill, Thomas H........................Illinois.
Campbell, John C.......................Missouri.
Carr, Carlyle R........................Michigan.
Cary, Clarence C.......................Illinois.
Cogan, John x>.........................Illinois.
Corbridge, Walter J....................Illinois.
Casparis, Kenneth E....................Ohio.
Calcott, Alfred L......................New York-
Castillo, Fernando.....................Mexico.
Cameron, William H.....................Michigan.
Casey, Daniel W........................Indiana.
Casey, Charles W.......................Missouri.
Callicrate, Dominic L..................Indiana.
Crotty, Robert E.......................Illinois.
Corrigan, Charles H....................Indiana.
Canty, Thomas A........................Minnesota.
174
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Curtis, Thomas J.....................Indiana.
Corbett, Stephan A...................Wisconsin.
Carrigan, Joseph F...................California.
Canedo, Enrique 0... .•..............Mexico.
Canedo, Ignacio......................Mexico.
Coleman, Charles D...................Indiana.
Corbett, Vincent.....................Michigan.
Coddington, Robert B.................Illinois.
Cartier, Antoine.....................Michigan.
Casey, Grover F......................Illinois.
Castillo, Enrique....................Mexico.
Castillo, Roque......................Mexico.
Coleman, Edward W....................Illinois.
Cornelius, George B..................Kentucky.
Connolly, Cassius H..................Illinois.
Conover, Huntington St. Clair........Illinois.
Creveling, Hayden....................Missouri.
Cotter, William......................Illinois.
Connolly, Edward.....................Illinois.
Connolly, Raymond A..................Illinois.
Davitt, Harold H.....................Michigan.
Dwyer, Thamos F......................Massachusetts.
Dillon, Daniel C.....................Pennsylvania.
Dinnen, William F....................Indiana.
Dinnen, J. Francis...................Indiana.
Daly, Walter M.......................South Dakota.
Dubbs, John W........................Illinois.
Donnelly, Tuomas L. K................Michigan.
Davis, Ernest A......................Indiana.
Devereux, Arthur J. A................Illinois.
De Wulf, Emiel P.....................Indiana.
Durcan, Patrick......................Illinois.
Dukette, Francis F...................Michigan.
Dwan, Leo G..........................North Dakota.
Davey, Frank P.......................Michigan.
Dumanois, ArthurE....................Michigan.
Duttle, George V.....................Iowa.
Daly, Bernard M......................Ohio.
Deasey, James J......................Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
175
Dunnington, Rex W....................Missouri.
Diebold, Howard J....................Pennsylvania,
Draper, William A....................Illinois.
Devine, J ames.......................Michigan.
"	o
Dubbs, James A.......................Illinois.
Dolan, Patrick T.....................Iowa.
Doar, James L........................Wisconsin.
DeLone, Louis S......................Pennsylvania.
Dempsey, Neal E......................Michigan.
Dunne, James L.......................Montana.
Delgado, Salvador P..................Mexico.
Dierssen, Arthur A...................Illinois.
Dohan, Joseph F......................Ohio.
Duffy, William M.....................Kentucky.
Dougherty, Lawrence V................Colorado.
Dierssen, Paul W.....................Illinois.
Dierssen, Walter H...................Illinois.
Dwan, Aloysius J.....................North Dakota.
Doerhoefer, George A.................Kentucky.
Doerhoefer, Frank E..................Kentucky.
Doerhoefer, Marcus M.................Kentucky.
Desmond, Edward W....................Wisconsin.
DeLone, Joseph M.....................Pennsylvania.
Dunham, Charles E....................Michigan.
Dee, William T.......................Illinois.
Dean, John A.........................Illinois.
Donahoe, Henry D.....................Illinois.
Downer, Henry 0......................Georgia.
Dunham, Donald H.....................Illinois.
Edelen, Richard M....................Kentucky.
Erdelen, G. Joseph...................Missouri.
Emerson, Ritchie J...................Texas.
Enriquez, Benjamin R.................Mexico.
Ewart, uurant A......................Illinois.
Eimer, John 0........................Illinois.
Eaton, William L.....................Washington.
Ehrke, Frederick R...................Michigan.
Farley, John F.......................New Jersey.
Finnegan, Edward P...................Illinois.
176
UNIVEESITY OF NOTEE DAME.
Finner, Charles R....................Canada.
Foik, Paul J......................Canada.
Forrestal, Peter.......................Wisconsin.
Fortin, Albert C......................Illinois.
Farabaugh, Gallitzen A................Pennsylvania.
Fahy, Joseph A........................Georgia.
Fink, Henry S.........................Maryland.
Falomir, Jose M.................*.....Mexico.
Furlong, Nicholas R...................Wisconsin.
Flaherty, Edward M....................Indiana.
Feeley, William P.....................Illinois.
Fleming, Shirley J....................Ohio.
Farrell, Francis T....................Illinois.
Fitzgibbon, John J....................Illinois.
Fleischer, Oscar F....................Illinois.
Foley, Frank T........................Minnesota.
Fox, Oscar A..........................Indiana.
Ohio.
Minnesota.
Illinois.
Washington, D. C.
Cuba.
Iowa.
Indiana.
Faragher, John......................
Feeney, Joseph D....................
Fitzgerald, James M.................
Flynn, Bernard R. P.................
Fernandez, Bernardo I...............
Fetherston, Louis M.................
Fansler, Michael L..................
Funk, Arthur S.....................Wisconsin.
Fack, Fred R.......................Montana.
Faragher, James F..................Ohio.
Fernandez, Jose A...................Mexico.
Fischer, Robert W
Farrell, Raymond.
Farrell, Howard..
Flook, Francis J..
Frossard, Emil. . .
Fox, Mark H.......
Indiana.
Nebraska.
Nebraska.
Illinois.
Indian Territory.
Wisconsin.
Floyd-Jones, Shorb C................Missouri.
Freese, George W.......................Ohio.
Gomez, Manuel M.....................Mexico.
Gaston, Francisco...................Cuba.
Garza, Rodolfa M....................Mexico.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
177
Gorman, Charles A.....................New York.
Guerra, Enrique L.....................Mexico.
Gilbert, Edward. J....................New York.
Gali, Rafael..........................Cuba.
Gaffney, Joseph M.....................Wisconsin.
Green, Omer D.........................Indiana.
Gardiner, William K...................New Jersey.
Gaukler, Erancis 0....................Michigan.
Geringer, John........................Illinois.
Guerra, Samuel J......................Mexico.
Garcia, Maximo M......................Mexico.
Graffis, Joseph T.....................Indiana.
Gearin, Walter J......................Oregon.
Gonzales, Ricardo.....................Mexico.
Gonzales, Moises T....................Mexico.
Goodall, Harvey.......................Illinois.
Gormley, John H.......................Wisconsin.
Gainor, Leo C.........................Indiana.
Garland, Harry 0......................Michigan.
Goff, John A..........................Wisconsin.
Gallagan, James C.....................New York.
Garrity, William H....................Illinois.
Gorka, Stanislaus J...................Indiana.
Gorski, Marcellinus K.................Illinois.
Graham, James J.......................Illinois.
Griffin, John.........................Colorado.
Gruza, Stanislaus A...................Indiana.
Gasman, William E.....................Illinois.
Gelder, Joseph D......................Illinois.
Graham, Robert J......................Ohio.
Green, Chester A......................Indiana.
Green, Thomas H.......................Illinois.
Guirl, Harry W........................Indiana.
Gardner, Robert B.....................Illinois.
Gavigan, Edward V.....................Colorado.
George, Oscar P.......................Indiana.
Gormley, George E.....................Wisconsin.
Gerraughty, Thomas P..................Montana.
Gerraughty, William J.................Montana.
Gallastequi, Erederico L..............Mexico.
178
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Garcia, Felix.........................Cuba.
Gillen, Charles I.....................Ohio.
Glenn, Edward A.	W................Illinois.
Groogan, Dominic	J................Pennsylvania.
Gage, Roy.............................Michigan.
Gillam, Ephriam R.....................Ohio.
Gilmuray, Francis A...................Indiana.
Greene, Edward T......................Illinois.
Greene, Francis T.....................Illinois.
Guirl, Charles J......................Indiana.
Gore, Thaddeus F.. •..................Michigan.
Graham, Thomas W......................Ohio.
Gray, Richard D.......................Michigan.
Gatens, Raymond S.....................Tennessee.
Gallart, Jose -.......................Cuba.
Gertsbauer, James L...................Indiana.
Harte, John...........................Connecticut.
Hamel, William..................Canada.
Halloran, William H...............Illinois.
Hagerty, Francis M...............Indiana.
Hannagan, James T..................Illinois.
Howarth, Francis...................Indiana.
Hebert, Peter......................Michigan.
Hanley, Robert E...................Idaho.
Herbert, Martin B..................Illinois.
Illinois.
Massachusetts.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Iowa.
Wisconsin.
Ohio.
Missouri.
Indiana.
Nebraska.
Indiana.
Missouri.
Hoover, Henry H....................
Higgins, Wm. P.....................
Hentges, Frank C...................
Huffman, Wm. J.....................
Hogan, Harry G.....................
Huffman, Charles J.................
Hurley, Harry H....................
Hannon, John E.....................
Hauser, Fred A.....................
Hemp, Charles L....................
Hoban, Martin C....................
Hughes, Francis B..................
Hilding, Victor....................
Hunt, Theodore.....................
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
179
Hogan, Joseph. H.....................New York.
Hunter, Albert B.....................Missouri.
Hatfield, W. Everett.................Indiana.
Hexter, Edward E.....................Illinois.
Hubbard, Charles H...................Kentucky.
Hurst, Noble.........................Illinois.
Hernandez Rafael.....................Mexico.
Herbert, George L....................Illinois.
Hernandez, Rafael....................Puerto Rico.
Hurtado, Angel.......................Mexico.
Harrington, Jolin D..................Utah.
Holladay, Walter L...................Missouri.
Hart, Laurence A.....................Indiana.
Hall, William P......................Illinois.
Haney, Charles E.....................Indiana.
Hanford, George H....................Illinois.
Hoff, Arthur S.......................Wisconsin.
Houze, Ormond L......................Pennsylvania.
Hackman, August J....................Indiana.
Harrison, William....................Michigan.
Hall, J. Robert......................Ohio.
Healy, Walter C......................Illinois.
Houze, Roger J.......................Pennsylvania.
Houser, Benjamin H...................Indiana.
Hoffman, Louis E...................-.. Illinois.
Hennessy, William J..................Colorado.
Hoffman, Clarence....................Indiana.
Hagerty, Cornelius J.................Indiana.
Hanyz, Martin S......................Michigan.
Heiser, Leo J........................Indiana.
Hennessy, John J.....................Indiana.
Hennessy, David J....................Illinois.
Hock, Ered X.........................Ohio.
Horwarth, George F...................Indiana.
Isaacs, William T....................Iowa.
Irvine, William......................Illinois.
Irving, Thomas P.....................Wisconsin.
Ill, Alphonse P......................Ohio.
Jelsch, Theodore.....................Michigan.
180
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Jennings, Simon......................Wisconsin.
Jennings, Raymond....................Wisconsin.
Jennings, Asher M....................Indiana.
Jones, Vitus G.......................Michigan.
Jackson, Thomas C....................Illinois.
Johnston, Edward E...................Minnesota.
Jones, Walter B.............?.......Wisconsin.
Jenkins, Joseph M...................Kentucky.
Joerger, Erancis X..................Indiana.
Jones, Thomas J.....................Indiana.
Jones, Harry E....................Michigan.
Johnson B. Erancis..........................Illinois.
Kasper, Robert A......................Illinois.
King, Charles E.......................Ohio.
Kinsella, Dalton L... .,..............Missouri.
Kinsella, Wm. J.......................Missouri.
• Kemper, Henry M.......................Illinois.
Kelley, Alfred D......................Ohio.
Kasper, George W......................Illinois.
'"Kasper, Wm. H.........................Illinois.
Kelley, Charles J.....................Minnesota.
Kelly, Edward A.......................Georgia.
Knight, Edgar L.......................Michigan.
Knisely, Richard W....................Illinois.
Keiler, Leo F.........................Kentucky.
Keegan, William E.....................Arizona.
Kavanaugh, George.....................Illinois.
Kenefick, Matthew J...................Michigan.
Kasper, Francis P.....................Illinois.
Kotte, Albert A.......................Ohio.
Kelly, Daniel T.......................New Mexico.
Kennedy, Edward M.....................Pennsylvania.
Krost, Robert A.......................Indiana.
Kahler, Charles P.....................Maryland.
Kasper, Fred .........................Illinois.
Kelly, George H.......................Wisconsin.
Kelly, John R.........................Indiana.
Kinney, Joseph C......................Wyoming.
Kanaley, Byron V......................New York.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
181
Krug, Albert L........................Ohio.
Kehl, Frank J.........................Wisconsin.
Kirby, Harley E..............'........Indiana.
Kennedy, Clarence J...................Illinois.
Kellner, Francis A....................Kentucky.
Krieger, John T.......................Indiana.
Kelly, John R....................... .New York.
Kolupa, Ladislaus A...................Indiana.
Kenney, Edward J......................Pennsylvania.
Kurowski, Francis A...................Maryland.
Kane, Michael F.......................Michigan.
Kelleher, Joseph P. S.................Massachusetts.
Kelly, Louis M........................Indiana.
Kennedy, Leo I........................Pennsylvania.
Lynch, Robert E.......................Illinois.
Lins, George J........................Illinois.
Langan, John J........................Illinois.
Lasher, Len...........................Illinois.
Lantry, Joseph T......................Illinois.
Lawton, Jasper H......................Texas.
Lyman, Paul I.........................Illinois.
Lynch, John J.........................Illinois.
Lowther, George C.....................California.
Lowther, Alex. N......................California.
Lavan, Henry M........................Ohio.
Lavan, Thomas J.......................Ohio.
Lavin, Walter H.......................Rhode Island.
Luken, Laurence H.....................Indiana.
Losoya, Juan L........................Mexico.
Losoya, Miguel........................Mexico.
Leppert, Charles L....................Indiana.
Lavelle, John J.......................Indiana.
Lyons, Thomas D.......................South Lakota.
Litzelmann, Joseph	J..............Illinois.
Langknecht, Walter	N..............Illinois.
Lujon, Edward L.......................New Mexico.
Lonergan, Frank T.	J..............Illinois.
Lippman, Oscar........................Indiana.
Lomelin, Ignacio F....................Mexico.
Lennartz, Wm. P.......................Ohio.
182
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Mulligan, Edward J...................Colorado.
Marker, Ernest.......................Indiana.
Mohan, Joseph E......................Illinois.
Munsell, Albert A....................Pennsylvania.
Moran, Harry C.......................Indiana.
Merson, William......................Michigan.
Merson, Edward.......................Michigan.
Mitchell, Clement C..................Michigan.
Medley, Benjamin E...................Kentucky.
Molumphy, David J....................Connecticut.
Maloney, William E...................Iowa.
Murphy, James N......................New York.
Moon, Charles J......................Kansas.
Murphy, Daniel L.....................'.Illinois.
Murphy, M. Leo.......................Illinois.
Montes de Oca, Juan P................Cuba.
Miller, Eugene L.....................Ohio.
Medrano, Joaquin H...................Cuba.
Mills, John J........................Indiana.
Mathews, Eauntleroy..................Missouri.
Markey, James L......................Illinois.
Malia, Edward........................Utah.
Mooney, Charles P....................Illinois.
Mambourg, Nestor.....................Indiana.
Murphy, Kobert D.....................Wyoming.
Menagh, Harry S......................Illinois.
Morrison, Joseph B., Jr..............Iowa.
Morrison, Denis A, Jr................Iowa.
Martin, Paul R.......................Indiana.
Moran, Charles E.....................Illinois.
Mattix, Charles E....................Minnesota.
Muriel, Jose.........................Mexico.
Muriel, Florencio....................Mexico.
Muriel, Ignacio......................Mexico.
Meyers, Joseph J.....................Iowa.
Moxley, George T.....................Illinois.
Mulcrone, Charles J..................Michigan.
Miles, Charles E.....................Illinois.
Mooney, Edward L.....................Minnesota.
Mulligan, Bernard J..................Colorado.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
183
Munson, Porter W....................Missouri.
Maginn, Francis J...................Illinois.
Maginn, John A......................Illinois.
Maschke, Joseph.....................Pennsylvania.
Mathis, Michael.....................Indiana.
Mannion, Thomas T...................Canada.
Medcalf, Herbert J..................Kentucky.
Miller, Desire D....................Kentucky.
Moloney, William P..................Indiana.
Mahar, Trank T......................Indiana.
Mulcare, Michael J..................Illinois.
Murphy, John F......................Illinois.
Morrissey, John 0...................Utah.
Madden, Thomas E....................Indiana.
Mueller, John C.....................Illinois.
Murphy, William V...................Illinois.
Meyer, Fred W.......................Illinois.
Mulvey, Leo I.......................Wisconsin.
Manier, Wm. I.......................Ohio.
Madero, Benj aniin..................Mexico.
Madero, Daniel H....................Mexico.
Murphy, J. Francis..................Illinois.
McCullough, Gilbert F...............Iowa.
McKeever, Francis H.................Iowa.
MacDonough, Patrick.................New York.
McGlew, Henry J.....................Massachusetts.
McElligot, Peter P..................New York.
McDermott, Edward W.................Illinois.
McNamara, Peter J...................Massachusetts.
McCormick, Washington J.............Montana.
McNamara, Wm. T.....................Michigan.
McGarrell, John J...................West Virginia.
McGowan, John T.....................Wisconsin.
McAuley, John A.....................Ohio.
McAuley, Milo J.....................Ohio.
McConnachie, John A.................Pennsylvania.
McAuley, J. Robert..................Ohio.
McBride, John L.....................New York.
McBride, Wm. A......................New York.
4
184
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
McDowd, Edwin J....................Illinois.
McDermont, Chapman H...............Ohio.
McDermont, Charles T...............Ohio.
McFadden, Thomas J.................Illinois.
McGinley, Hugh S...................Minnesota.
McFarland, Clarence J..............Ohio.
McGill, Fobert J...................Illinois.
McAuley, Hugh B....................Rhode Island.
McCarthy, William A................Illinois.
McGinn, John C.....................Rhode Island.
McKeon, Fred T.....................Connecticut.
McNamara, George J.................Kentucky.
McNeil, Wm. R......................Wisconsin.
McDonald, Cassius M................Illinois.
McCarthy, J. Gerald................Illinois.
McLean, Wm. A......................New York.
McMahon, John T....................Illinois.
McBride, Paul H....................New York.
McFarland, Alex. W.................Ohio.
McAuley, Marion J..................Ohio.
McKay, Paul........................Illinois.
Neeson, John H.......................Pennsylvania.
Nolan, Wm. E.........................Illinois.
Norman, Henry........................Rhode Island.
Nowogrodzki, Alfred..................Maryland.
Norris, Luke L.......................Iowa.
Nieto, Francisco G...................Mexico.
Narcelle, Edward P...................South Dakota.
Nyere, George L......................Iowa.
O’Malley, Dominic K..................Wisconsin.
O’Hara, John P.......................Minnesota.
O’Brien, Francis B...................Indiana.
O’Grady, Patrick W...................New York.
O’Neill, Philip B....................Indiana.
O’Hanlon, Henry......................Montana.
O’Connor, Daniel J...................Illinois.
O’Neill, James J.....................Missouri.
O’Phelan, John I.....................Minnesota.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
185
O’Shea, John P........................Indiana.
O’Keefe, Don Panl.....................Michigan.
O’Brien, William..................  .	.Ohio.
O’Connor, George......................Oklahoma.
O’Donnell, Charles L..................Indiana.
. O’Donnell, Walter J...................Michigan.
O’Neill, Thomas.......................Illinois.
O’Sullivan, Timothy P.................Illinois.
O’Donnell, James......................Indiana.
O’Leary, James........................Illinois.
O’Neill, John W.......................Wisconsin.
Opfergelt, Edward A...................Illinois.
O’Reilly, Joseph P....................Ohio.
Oliver, James, Jr.....................Indiana.
O’Bryan, Edward.......................Illinois.
Pino, Arturo....................   .Peru,	So. America.
Perez, Juan............................Cuba.
Parker, Marion J....................Indiana.
Portillo, Manuel L........................Mexico.
Illinois.
Colorado.
Wyoming.
Colorado.
Illinois.
Padden, Dominic J....................
Peyton, William J....................
Price, Robert J......................
Pryor, Erancis.......................
Pollitz, Wm. M.......................
Peery, Erancis C.......................Indian	Territory.
Portugal, Manuel G..................Mexico,
o J
Portugal, Luis B. G.................Mexico.
Pietrowick, Joseph L................Maryland.
Peil, Edward J......................Wisconsin.
Pick, John B. F.....................Wisconsin.
Illinois.
Mexico.
Kansas.
Mexico.
Chili, So. America.
Maryland.
Petritz, Erancis J..................
Prada, Jose V.......................
Purdy, Warren G..........'..........
Portugal, George C..................
Polanco, Benigno....................
Pula, .Joseph.......................
Quinlan, Joseph A.......................Illinois.
Quinlan, James..........................Illinois.
Quinn, William..........................New Jersey.
186
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Quinlevin, “Venins..................New Mexico.
Quertinmont, George A...............Pennsylvania.
Quertinmont, Edgar J................Pennsylvania.
Quinn, Samuel J.....................Indiana.
Quinn, Clement K....................Michigan.
Quinn, John D.......................Pennsylvania.
Quinlan, John M.....................Illinois.
Quigley, Edward F...................Indiana.
Rosado, Alonzo F....................Mexico.
Bichon, Alfred J....................Illinois.
Boss, Arthur B......................Michigan.
*	•	O
Beichardt, Herman C.................Illinois.
Buiz, Enrique C.....................Cuba.
Bush, Charles E.....................Indiana.
Boura, Antonio......................Cuba.
Bindskopf, Herbert..................Indiana.
Buhlmann, Albert H..................Ohio.
Bangel, Jesus.......................Mexico.
Beilly, William E...................Indiana.
Bamirez, Louis N....................Cuba.
Biley, L. Clayton...................Michigan.
Robinson, Samuel W..................Indiana.
Rosado, Jose E......................Mexico.
Roberts, Harry N....................Illinois.
Ryan, James A.......................Ohio.
Rhodes, John A......................Indiana.
Rapier, J. Hugh.....................Kentucky.
Rumbaugh, Leo C.....................Indiana.
Record, James R.....................Texas.
Rothwell, Henry P...................Wyoming.
Riley, Maurice J....................West Virginia.
Riley, John B..........-............Kentucky.
Roche, Richard A....................Illinois.
Reitz, Clarence A...................Indiana.
Rubio, Marcelino G..................Cuba.
Rubio, Manuel G.....................Cuba.
Rennolds, William H................. ..Illinois.
Rocheford, Ector R..............    Nebraska.
Ryan, John M........................Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
18*7
Rafter, Gerald J.....................Missouri.
Randle, Drummond E...................Illinois.
Ravencroft, George J.................Ohio.
Rempe, George........................Illinois.
Rempe, Harold R......................Illinois.
Rempe, Wm. Lester....................Illinois.
Rielly, Charles J....................West Virginia.
Rousseau, Edward L...................Nebraska.
Robinson, JLeo C.....................South Dakota.
Rudolph, Marshall K..................Michigan.
Rudolph, Wm. H.......................Michigan.
Robert, Hubert R.....................Indiana.
Robinson, Wm. E......................Mississippi.
Ryan, E. Alphonse....................Iowa.
Robert, Wilfreu J....................Indiana.
Riordan, Stephan E...................Illinois.
Rincon, Erancisco....................Mexico.
Rebillot, Raul E.....................Ohio.
Rayneri, Virgilio N..................Cuba.
Rayneri, Eugenio P. A................Cuba.
Reed, Gail...........................Wyoming.
Reulbach, Edward M...................Missouri.
Siewertsen, Wm. T....................Indiana.
Sullivan, Joseph J...................Illinois.
Sweeney, Robert J....................Washington.
Shirk, John H........................Indiana.
Shea, Wm. A..........................Wisconsin.
Shea, John E.........................Massachusetts.
Shea, Michael J......................Massachusetts.
Steiner, Arthur E....................Michigan.
Stephan, Anton C.....................Illinois.
Stephan, Raymond V...................Illinois.
Stanford, Gratton T..................'Kansas.
Sibila, Clement J....................Ohio.
Smith, Robert E......................Ohio.
Strassheim, Arthur G.................Illinois.
Simms, Thomas W... ’.................Kentucky.
Sheekey, Charles E...................Indiana.
Shaughnessey, Erancis J........’...Illinois.
188
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Illinois.
South Dakota.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Schmidt, Henry C....................
Scott, Marc W.......................
Smoger, Francis A...................
Stevens, Walter A...................
Stone, Stephan E....................Missouri.
Salmon, Louis J.....................New York.
Snider, William A...................Ohio.
Shetterly, John L. M...................Indiana.
Sullivan, David L....................Illinois.
Indian Territory.
Illinois.
New York.
Montana.
Steele, Franklin A.................
Sheehan, John W....................
Sherry, James J....................
Swantz, Thomas J...................
Sabin, Franklin E.....................Illinois.
Sawyer, Harold P......................Illinois.
Schonlau, Claire J]...................Illinois.
Shannon, Gerald A.....................Washington.
Smith, Howard F.......................Illinois.
Smith, Thomas Barrett.................Illinois.
Small, Emmett R.......................Illinois.
Sullivan, John H., Jr.................Indiana.
Stoner, John Byron....................Massachusetts.
Stout, Erwin Corey....................Indiana.
Stout, Milburn Alex...................Indiana.
Spengler, Herbert A...................Illinois.
Spengler, Francis E...................Illinois.
Smithwick, Thomas J...................Indiana.
Sherlock, Charles V...................New York.
Schaab, Alfred A.................•.... Ohio.
Staples, E. Douglas...................Mexico.
Stopper, Anthony J....................Pennsylvania.
Santa Marina, Alphonso................Mexico.
Sauer, George H.......................Colorado.
Sturla, Francis J.....................Tennessee.
Schwab, Edward H......................Pennsylvania.
Steinle, Arthur W.....................Ohio.
Sullivan, George C....................Wisconsin.
Staples, Merrill W....................Meyien,
Spengler, Walter J....................Illinois.
Schaus, Herbert G.....................Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
189
Sweeny, Francis R....................Washington.
Swann, Edwin V.......................West Virginia.
Strauss, Fred H. A...................Illinois.
Swan, Albert L.......................Illinois.
Simon, Arturo........................Cuba.
Schmidt, Harry H.....................Indiana.
Sheble, Ernest K.....................Missouri.
Scott, Robert E......................Montana.
Schwab, Francis C....................Pennsylvania.
Sheedy, Josepn A.....................Canada.
Sullivan, Arthur W...................Michigan.
Stanton, John V......................Illinois.
Sypniewski, Stanislaus A.............Indiana.
Sztuczko, Joseph B...................Illinois.
Szybowicz, Leo P.....................Indiana'.
Stefanski, Michael L.................Maryland.
Tansey, Louis J......................Indiana.
Thompson, Raymond....................Ohio.
Talcott, Rodney D....................Indiana.
Taylor, Bryan M......................Missouri.
Toba, Francisco......................Mexico.
Taprell, Percival E..................Illinois.
Toner, Thomas A......................Minnesota.
Trester, Anthony M...................Wisconsin.
Thompson, Urban T....................West Virginia.
Thorp, Burt W........................Iowa.
Talcott, Harrison W..................Indiana.
Tillett, Grover C....................Indiana.
Taprell, George D....................Illinois.
Taprell, Sydney W.	Illinois.
Thompson, Waltei’ J..................Michigan.
Trentman, Stephen A..................Indiana.
Trevino, Richard A...................Mexico.
Toohey, Joseph	L...................Ohio.
Upman, Walter	F...................Illinois.
Uffendell, Wm.	G...................'Illinois.
Usera, Julio J.......................Puerto Rico.
Villanueva, Jose Antonio.............Mexico.
Vaughn, William 0....................Kentucky. .
190
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Van Valkenburg, Joseph B..............Alabama.
Von der Heide, Frank F................Illinois.
Van Sant, Leport, R...................Illinois.
Vega, Alfonso de la...................Mexico.
Vega, Octovio de la...................Mexico.
Villanueva, Jose C....................Mexico.
Villanueva, Luis S....................Mexico.
Villanueva,	Santiago F...............Mexico.
Van Zandt,	Everett C................Illinois.
Villanueva,	Augustin P...............Mexico.
Von Phul, Carol.......................Missouri.
Villanueva,	Jose Ramon...............Mexico.
Van Rie, Leo P........................Indiana.
Voigt, John R.........................Indiana.
Welch, James A........................Washington.
Winter, Aloysius L....................Pennsylvania.
Wertin, John J. E.....................Michigan.
Welty, Louis A........................West Virginia.
Webster, Joseph S.....................Ohio.
Winter, Francis M.....................Pennsylvania.
Weiss, Philip J., Jr..................Pennsylvania.
Weidman, Fritz M......................Ohio.
Woodruff, Frank E.....................Indiana.
Wagner, Frederick.....................Indiana.
Wagner, Lucius M......................Indiana.
Willard, John A.......................Indiana.
Williams, Maurice F...................North Dakota.
Wagner, Louis E.......................Illinois.
Williams, Griffith J..................Illinois.
Weston, Walter G......................North Dakota.
Waters, Leo H.............-...........Michigan.
Walsh, Francis M......................Illinois.
Weston, Arthur G......................Indiana.
Worden, John..........................New York.
Wenter, Henry H.......................Illinois.
Wetzel, Earl V........................Minnesota.
White, Mark B.........................Illinois.
Winter, William J.....................Pennsylvania.
Winter, August A......................Pennsylvania.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
191
Winter, Charles A......................... Pennsylvania.
Weisse, Paul A........................Illinois.
Weber, Walter D.......................Wisconsin.
White, Benjamin H.....................Illinois.
Winkler, Edward L.....................Indiana.
Williams, Robert W....................Illinois.
Weber, Peter A........................Illinois.
Wiest, J. Lambert.....................Utah.
Wilson, Koy L.........................Illinois.
Wilson, Earl W........................Colorado.
Woods, James Allen....................Colorado.
Wilson, Charles L.....................Colorado.
Wilson, Ralph M.......................Pennsylvania.
Whaley, Earl E........................Ohio.
White, Orrin A........................Illinois.
Wolfe, Edward C.......................Ohio.
Wolfe, Harry M........................Ohio.
Wurzer, Edward C......................Michigan.
Wood, Willis P........................Indiana.
Walsh, Leo J..........................Illinois.
Wimberg, William AI...................Ohio.
Walsh, Mathew J.......................Illinois.
Weiskopf, Leo A.......................Illinois.
New York.
Young, John......................
Yeargin, Cecil P.................Kentucky.
Zeiger, Henry J.........................Ohio.
Zaehnle, Louis J........................Indiana.
Zerhusen, Francis X.....................Kentucky.
Zolper, Harry W.........................Illinois.
Ziegler, George F.......................Wisconsin.
Zeibold, George C.......................Illinois.
Zeibold, Gottlieb.......................Illinois.

Fifty-Eighth
Annual Commencement*
»
<*
194
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
Hon. William P. Breen, A. B. ’77, A. M. ’80, Fort
Wayne, Indiana.
Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
George W. Burkitt, Jr., Houston, Texas.
Timothy J. Crowley, Kilmallock, County Limerick,
Ireland.
Francis Flanders Dukette, Mendon, Michigan.
Marcellinus Charles Gorski, Chicago.
Leo J. Heiser, South Bend, Indiana.
John J. Hennessy, Kilmallock, County Limerick,
Ireland.
Joseph P. S. Kelleher, Newburyport, Massachusetts.
Thomas Frederick McKeon, New Flaven, Conn.
Francis Charles Schwab, Altoona, Pennsylvania.
Joseph Lawrence Toohey, St. Martins, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Henry Ewing Brown, Lancaster, Ohio.
Vitus George Jones, Dowagiac, Michigan.
Albert Louis Krug, Dayton, Ohio.
William Albert Shea, Ashland, Wisconsin.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on
Edward Dubs Gilbert, Chicago.
Francis B. O’Brien, South Bend, Indiana.
John Patrick O’Hara, Lanesboro, Minnesota.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
Jose Maria Falomir, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Francisco J. Gaston, Havana, Cuba.
Ralph Maher Wilson, Blairsville, Pennsylvania.

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
195
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on
Enrique Luis Guerra, Sauces Jalisco, Mexico.
Thomas Francis Dwyer, Worcester, Massachusetts.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engi-
neering was conferred on
Rodolfo Maria Garza, Saltillo, Mexico.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Orrin Augustine White, Hanover, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
ferred on
Robert A. Krost, Crown Point, Indiana.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on
John Robert Kelly, Muncie, Indiana.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
John P. Curry, Hartford, Connecticut.
Albert C. Fortin, Chicago.
Phillip Bernard O’Neil, Anderson, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
William H. Cameron, Benton Harbor, Michigan.
Timothy Crimmins, Aurora, Illinois.
John Louis Corley, St. Paul, Missouri.
William Fleming Dinnen, Fort Wayne, Indiana. 1
Francis Earle Hering, South Bend, Indiana.
Charles Victor Hilding, South Bend, Indiana.
Joseph C. Kinney, Rock Springs, Wyoming.
George Henry Kelly, Menasha, Wisconsin.
Oscar Lippman, South Bend, Indiana.
Frederick William Meyer, Petersburg, Illinois.
Clement C. Mitchell, Lapeer, Michigan.
Peter Patrick McElligott, New York City.
John B. F. Pick, West Bend, Wisconsin.
Joseph John Sullivan, Chicago, Illinois.
196
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on
George Justus Lins, Wilmington, Illinois.
Harry H. Hoover, Pontiac, Illinois.
Rafael Urbano Gali, Sancto Espiritu, Cuba.
Certificates in Short Course of Electrical Engineering
were awarded to
Ritchie J. Emerson, Dallas, Texas.
James L. Doar, Cumberland, Wisconsin. .
Certificate for Telegraphy was awarded to
Frederico L. Gallastequie, Nombre de D’ios,
Durango, Mexico.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
&
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Edward L. Breen, Glens Falls, New York.
Francis T. Greene, Wapella, Illinois.
Harry H. Hurley, Newell, Iowa.
Francis J. Kehl, Sheboygan Falls, Wisconsin.
William E. Maloney, Lenox, Iowa.
Matthew J. Kenefick, Michigan City, Indiana.
George T. Moxley, Chicago.
Robert D. Murphy, Rock Springs, Wyoming.
Marion J. Parker, Frankfort, Indiana.
Arthur G. Strassheim, Chicago.
B. Theodore, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Burt W. Thorp, Greene, Iowa.
PRIZE MEDALS.
&
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan,
of Chicago, for the student having the best
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
197
record in the Classical Course, senior year, was
awarded to
Francis Flanders Dukette, Mendon, Michigan.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall hav-
ing the best record for the scholastic year, was
awarded to
James R. Record, Paris, Texas.
The Meehan Gold Medal, for English Essays, presented
by Mrs. James Meehan, Covington, Kentucky,
was awarded to
Francis C. Schwab, Altoona, Pennsylvania.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated by the Hon.
William P. Breen, LL. D., of Fort Wayne, was
awarded to
John L. Corley, St. Paul, Missouri.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal for Chris-
tian Doctrine in Sorin Hall, was awarded to
- Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
A. S. Hughes, Denver, Colorado, for the best
record in Mathematics (Civil Engineering
Course) was awarded to
Jose Maria Falomir, Chihuahua, Mexico.
The O’Malley Gold Medal for Gaelic, presented by Prof.
Austin O’Malley, was awarded to
John Joseph ^Hennessy, Kilmallock, County Lim-
erick, Ireland.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
A, was awarded to
Edward H. Schwab, Loretto, Pennsylvania.
198
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 1st Division, was awarded to
William J. Manier, Versailles, Ohio.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine
in Moral Course B, 2d Division, presented by the
Very Reverend M. J. Fitzsimmons, Vicar-Gen-
eral of the Archdiocese of Chicago, was awarded
to
Arthur S .Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 3d Division, was awarded to
Joseph P. O’Reilly, Toledo, Ohio.
The Mooney Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, First Course, presented by Rev. Nathan J.
Mooney, ’77, Rector of St. Columbkille’s Church,
Chicago, was awarded to
Albert A. Kotte, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 1st Division, was awarded to
John W. O’Neill, Mineral Point, Wisconsin.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in Senior
Class, Commercial Course, was awarded to
Francis J. Kehl, Sheboygan Falls, Wisconsin.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, Second Course, presented by the Rev. F.
J. Barry, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Chi-
cago, was awarded to
Harry N. Roberts, Wilmington, Illinois.
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold, presented by the Hon.
Clem Studebaker, South Bend, Indiana, for de-
bating work, was awarded as follows:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
199
Forty Dollars to Byron V. Kanaley, Weedsport, N. Y.
Twenty Dollars to John L. Corley, St. Paul, Missouri.
Fifteen Dollars to John P. O’Hara, Lanesboro, Minn.
The Barry Elocution Medal in the Collegiate Depart-
ment, donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry, of
Chicago, was awarded to
William M. Wimberg, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in Preparatory Course was
awarded to
Anthony J. Burger, Brooklyn, New York.
The Gold Medal for Politeness, presented by Major J. J.
Abercrombie, Chicago, awarded to
Edward O’Bryan.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
Francis J. Baude. .
The Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
Charles Thurston McDermont.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Bernard J. Mulligan.
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Edward L. Rousseau.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded
to	’
Herbert A. Spengler.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Composition was
awarded to
Charles H. Kelley.
200
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Thomas J. Smithwick.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing awarded to
Edward EI. Johnson.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby and
Brownson Halls who have attained an average of at least 90 per
cent for scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year.
The first honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a
diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a
gold medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Henry E. Brown, Lancaster, Ohio.
George W. Burkitt, Houston, Texas.
Francis F. Dukette, Mendon, Michigan.
Walter M. Daly, Madison, South Dakota.
Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Penn.
John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
John P. O’Hara, Lanesboro, Minnesota.
Albert L. Krug, Dayton, Ohio, (renewal).
Philip B. O’Neill, Anderson, Indiana, (renewal).
Francis J. Petritz, Rockford, Ill., (renewal).
Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan.
Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois,
(renewal).
Orrin A. White, Hanover, Illinois, (renewal).
Edward C. Wolfe, Germantown, Ohio.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
201
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Louis A. De Lone, Harrisburg, Penn.
Lawrence H. Luken, Richmond, Indiana.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Lawrence M. Antoine, Somonauk, Ill., (renewal).
John D. Quinn, Scranton, Pennsylvania.
Clarence J. Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois.
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Francis P. Burke, Richwood, Wisconsin.
Thomas R. Donnelly, Bay City, Michigan.
Benjamin R. Enriques, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Joseph A. Fahy, Rome, Georgia.
Jose M. Falomir, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Omer D. Green, Lagro, Indiana.
Enrique L. Guerra, Sauces Jalisco, Mexico.
Vitus G. Jones, Dowagiac, Michigan.
Frederick J. Kasper, Evanston, Illinois.
Byron V. Kanaiey, Weedsport, New York.
Charles P. Kahler, Baltimore, Maryland.
Joseph C. Kinney, Rock Springs, Wyoming.
Patrick W. O’Grady, Glens Falls, New York.
Michael J .Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
Edward C. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan.
Ralph M. Wilson, Blairsville, Pennsylvania.
Harry W. Zolper, Mendota, Illinois.
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Diploma was awarded to	■ .
Miguel Losoya, Durango, Mexico.
202
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Clement C. Mitchell, Lapeer, Michigan.
Daniel L. Murphy, Odell, Illinois.
Peter P. McElligott, New York City.
Peter J. McNamara, Worcester, Mass.
Washington J. McCormick, Missoula, Montana.
Clement J. Sibila, Columbus, Ohio.
Francis J. Shaughnessy, Amboy, Illinois.
Robert E. Scott, Havre, Montana. •
DEPORTMENT PRIZE MEDALS.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Thomas
W. Graham, August J. Hackman, Robert D. Murphy,
Jose Antonio Villanueva, Aloysius J. Dwan, Jose E.
Rosado, Joaquin H. Medrano, Deport R. Van Sant,
Joseph T. Lantry (renewal), Bryan M. Taylor (renewal).
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
John W. Young, John F. Berteling, William F. Gas-
man, Leo C. Robinson, Grover F. Casey, Huntington St.
Clair Conover, William H. Kasper, Clarence J. McFar-
land.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medal for Deportment was awarded to
Albert A. Kotte.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
203
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Carol Von Phul, Franklin E. Sabin, Leon E. Knight,
Everett C. Van Zandt, William A. McBride, Louis E.
Hoffman, James A. Woods, George A. Rempe, Claire, E.
Schonlau.
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no need
of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without endow-
ment, and its work is seriously hampered because it has
- no resources except the fees of the students. There is one
scholarship,and the interest from this foundation is used in
educating and boarding a student.
There were in 1901 1,452 Catholic students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and very
many of these will lose their faith, and all will be weak-
ened in that faith,because our people look upon Collegiate
Institutions as the property of private corporations which
are to be left to take .care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarishps for boys that can not
pay the expense of education, and who therefore are obliged
to go to non-Catholic Colleges to the detriment of their
faith. A foundation of $5,000 will educate and board a
student as long as the University exists. As one bursar is
graduated another can take his place. The founder of the
scholarship, of course, always has the privilege of appoint-
ing the student.
We lack money for a library building, and for two more
dwelling-halls like Sorin Hall.
Two or three thousand dollars are required for finishing
and equipping the new gymnasium.
204
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Foundations for scholarships are also a pressing need.
There is no Library fund for the purchase of new books.
The names of benefactors will be given to all foundations.
Bequests should be made after this form:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I give, devise and bequeath to the University of
Notre Dame du Lac, an institution incorporated
under the laws of the State of Indiana, and located
at Notre Dame, Indiana, ................
UNIVERSITY ' OF NOTRE DAME.
205
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Is the title of a neat 28-page paper, devoted to the inter-
ests of the students, and published by them at the Uni-
versity every week during Term time. This journal opens
a field for young writers who might otherwise, for want of
a proper medium, allow their talents to remain inactive. It
affords students an opportunity for practical experience in
journalism. During seasons of special interest at the Uni-
versity, The Scholastic is published daily.
The Scholastic contains articles of an instructive literary
character, interesting Biographical Sketches, Essays, Poetry,
Notes on Art, Music, Science and Literature, Notes of New
Publications, etc., etc.
In addition to its literary features, The Scholastic has
a special importance for students, their parents, and all who
have had classes at the University in times past, an’ occount
of the weekly summary of events happening at Notre Dame,
personal Notices of former students, Rolls of Honor, Class
Honors, List of Excellence, etc., which appear in its columns
every week. Reports relative to the arrangement of classes,
the promotion of the more talented and energetic students,
etc., also find a place in this paper and keep the parents and
others informed about matters that concern their children
and friends.	-
It will be the endeavor of the Editors during the coming
year to merit the encouragement given the paper in the past,
and the encomiums bestowed upon it by the press in general.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50
per annum.
Address all communications to THE NOTRE DAME
SCHOLASTIC, Notre Dame, Indiana.
206
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
INDEX.
Admission to:
Collegiate Courses, the................................ 94
Conditional Admission.................................. 95
Departments of Arts and Letters........................ 98
Department of	Science................................ 104
Department of	Architecture........................... 127
Department of	Civil Engineering...................... 117
Department of	Electric Engineering................... 123
Department of Law..................................... 129
Department of	Mechanical Engineering................. 120
Department of	Pharmacy............................... 110
Advanced Standing, admission	to.......................... 95
Anatomy,. Courses in....................................... 85
Architecture, Courses in..................................  67
Scheme of Courses..................................... 128
Astronomy, Course in....................................... 60
ATHLETICS, ............./.................................. 22
Faculty Board in Athletics............................. 23
Bacteriology, Course in.................................... 87
Biology, Courses in........................................ 81
Scheme of Courses..................................... 109
Laboratory Fees........................68,	111, 114, 105, 108
Board of Trustees........................................... 4
Board and Tuition.......................................26,	170
Botany, Courses in......................................... 17
Buildings, Description of.................................. 12
Calendar, Unversity......................................... 3
Chemistry, Courses in...................................... 74
Civil Engineering, Courses in (See Mathematics, Pure and
Applied)
Admission to.......................................... 114
Scheme of Courses....................................  119
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
207
College, The
Admission to............................................ 94
Commencement Honors.................................193,	202
Commercial Course..................................... 156
Degrees:
Bach,	of	Arts........................................ 100
Bach,	of	Laws........................................ 140
Bach,	of	Letters..................................... 101
Bach,	of	Philosophy.................................. 102
Master of Letters in Journalism....................... 103
Bach, of Science.....................................  107
Bach, of Science in Biology........................... 109
Bach, of Science in Architecture...................... 128
Civil Engineer........................................ 119
Bach, of Science in Electrical	Engineering............ 124
Mechanical Engineer................................... 122
Pharmaceutical Chemist................................ 112
Graduate in Pharmacy.................................. 112
Directory .................................................. 2
Discipline ................................................ 21
Drawing :
Artistic Drawing, Courses in........................... 68
Mechanical Drawing, Courses in......................... 71
Economics, Courses in...................................... 46
Electrical Engineering, Courses in......................... 65
Admission to.......................................... 114
Scheme of Courses..................................... 124
Laboratory Fees....................................... 114
Electricity, Short Course in Applied
Admission to........................................... 125
Scheme of Courses..................................... 126
Laboratory Pees....................................... 114
Elocution, Courses in...................................... 42
English, Courses in........................................ 40
Entrance Requirements, (See Admission).
Ethics, Course in.......................................... 30
Evidences of Christianity.................................. 93
Expenses .................................................. 26
Executive Officers.........................................  5
Fees ...................................................... 26
208
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
French, Courses in........................................ 47
Old French............................................ 48
General Sciences
Admission to.......................................... 104
Scheme of Courses...................................... 107
Geology, Courses in....................................... 88
German, Courses in..................................... .. .	19
Graduation Fees........................................... 27
Greek, Courses in......................................... 33
Historical Sketch of the University....................... 11
History, Courses in....................................... 44
History and Economics, Courses in......................... 46
Admission to.......................................... 98
Scheme of Courses.................................... 102
Italian .................................................. 48
Journalism, Courses in................................... 103
Admission to......................................... 103
Scheme of Courses.................................... 103
Laboratory Fees...........................68,	105, 108, 111, 114
Latin, Courses in......................................... 37
Law ....................................................... 129
Lodging, Board and........................................ 26
Logic, Course in.......................................... 29
Mathematics, Pure, Courses in............................. 50
Mathematics, Applied, Courses in.......................... 53
Mechanical Engineering, Courses in........................ 61
Admission to......................................... '	114
Scheme of Courses.................................... 122
Laboratory Fees........................................ 114
Medals and Honors’........................................ 24
Metaphysics, Course in.................................... 29
Microscopy, Courses in.................................",	84
Minim Department......................................... 166
Fees ...........v.................................... 170
Museum ................................................... 17
Music, Course in.......................................... 89
Fees ................................................. 26
Painting :
Fee ................................................... 26
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
209
Pharmacy, Courses in........................................   81
Admission to............................................. 110
Scheme of Courses........................................ 112
Fees .................................................... Ill
Philosophy, Course in......................................... 29
Physics, Courses in........................................... 17
Physiology, Courses in........................................ 86
Political Science, Course in.................................. 46
Portuguese, Course in......................................... 48
Preparatory School........................................... 160
Professors and Instructors, Roster of.......................7,	130
Provincal, Course in........................................... 49
Psychology, Courses in......................................... 29
Romance Languages, Courses in................................   47
Science, Courses in General, (See General Science).
Shop Work...................................................... 64
Spanish, Courses in............................................ 48
Students, Summary of.......................................... 171
Thesis .................................106,	108, 111, 118, 121, 123
Title, Legal, of the University................................ 11
Trustees, Board of............................................... 4
Tuition, (See Expenses)......................................... 26
Zoology, Courses of............................................. 79
ST. MARY'S ACADEMY.
(One mile west of the University of Notre Dame.)
&
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY for young ladies, now entering upon
its forty-eighth, year of active educational work, has earned
the reputation of being one of the most thoroughly equipped
and successful institutions in the United States. The location
is on the dividing ridge of the St. Lawrence and Mississippi river
systems, in the highest and most healthful part of the State. The
Academy buildings—large, well ventilated and commodious, sup-
plied with fire escapes of the latest and best kind—are beautifully
situated on an eminence over-looking the picturesque banks of the
St. Joseph river.
All the branches of
A Thorough English and Classical Education,
including Greek, Latin, Spanish, Trench and German are taught by a
Faculty of competent teachers. ,0n completing the required course
students receive
Regular Collegiate Degrees-
The Conservatory of Music is conducted on the plan of the best
Classical Conservatories of Europe. Three instrumental lessons, and
one in theory weekly, are included in the regular catalogue prices;
extra practice pro rata.
The Art Department is modelled after the best Art Schools in
Europe.
Preparatory and Minim Departments.—Pupils who need primary
training, and those of tender age, are here carefully prepared for
the Academic and Advanced Courses.
Gymnasium under direction of Graduate of Dr. Sargent’s Normal
School of Physical Training, Cambridge, Massachusetts.
Book-keeping, Phonography and Typewriting extra. Every variety
of Fancy Needlework taught.
For catalogue containing full information, address,
DIRECTRESS OF THE ACADEMY,
St Mary's Academy,
NOTRE DAME, P. O., INDIANA.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY.
It is desired that every Graduate receive a copy of the
Annual Catalogue. The Faculty will therefore consider
it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus changes his
address.
On application to the President catalogues will be
sent to all who are interested in the work of the
University.
PRESS OF
TRIBUNE PRINTING COMPANY,
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA.