CATALOGUE
1902-1903.
Notre. Dame, Indiana
datalngue
nf tip
UnturrBity nf Noir? Same.
19112-19113
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY—Address:
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the Student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, and an Express Office
are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk,
the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the St. Joseph,
South Bend & Southern, and the Michigan Central railways
run directly into South Bend.
CALENDAR FOR 19034904.
&
SEPTEMBER 8.
9-10.
11.
20.
OCTOBER 13.
27-28.
29.
NOVEMBER I.
26.
30.
DECEMBER 8.
9.
17-18.
19.
JANUARY 5.
FEBRUARY 5.
22.
23-24.
MARCH	17.
19.
APRIL 3.
4.
26-27.
MAY	1.
18.
30.
JUNE 6-11.
12.
13-15.
15.
16.
Examination of Conditioned Students.
Entrance Examinations.
Schools begin.
Reading of University Regulations in all the
Halls.
Rounder’s Day. Holiday.
Bi-Monthly Examinations.
Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
Eeast of All Saints. Holiday.
Thanksgiving Day. Holiday.
President’s Day. Holiday.
Eeast of Immaculate Conception. Holiday.
Contest in Oratory.
Winter Examinations.
Christmas Vacation begins.
Schools begin.
State Oratorical Qontest.
Washington’s Birthday. Holiday.
Bi-Monthly Examinations.
St. Patrick’s Day. Holiday.
St. Joseph’s Day. Holiday.
Easter. No Easter Vacation.
Easter Monday. Holiday.
Bi-Monthly Examinations.
Latest Date for handing in Prize and Gradu-
ation Essays in all Collegiate Courses.
Contest in Elocution.
Decoration Day. Holiday.
Examination of Graduates.
Baccalaureate Sermon.
General Examinations.
Commencement. Preliminary Exercises
7:30 P. M.
Graduation Exercises, 8:00 A. m.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Very Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
VICE - PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,	.
SECRETARY.
©
DIRECTORS OF HALLS.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Bev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
Rev. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. 0.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. JAMES READY, 0. S. C.
Beo. WILLIAM, C. S. C.	Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL.
Rev. THOS. H. CORBETT, C. S. C. Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. 0.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.	Bro. ANGELUS, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL.
Beo. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. AIDEN, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. 0.	.	Bro. MALACHY, C. S. 0.
CARROLL HALL.
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.	Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. FINAN, C. S. C.	Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.
Rev. JOHN THILLMAN, C. S. C. Bro. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.	Bro. AMEDEUS, 0. S. C.
PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, 0. S. 0.,
Evidences of Religion.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. 0.,
Latin and English.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. 0.,
Biology.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy and French.
Rev. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
English Literature.
Rev. JOHN THILMAN, C. S. C.,
German.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Psychology.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.,
Latin.
8
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Rev. JAMES READY, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. WILLIAM McNAMEE, C. S. C.,
French and English.
Rev. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. THOMAS HENNESSY, C. S. C.,
Rhetoric.
Rev. MICHAEL M. OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
Rev. PATRICK T. O’REILLY, C. S. C.,
Spanish.	.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. 8.,
History and Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Physics and Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
Anatomy and Physiology. (House Physician.)
FRANCIS J. POWERS, M. S.,
Biology.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Drawing.
HENRY DICKSON,
Elocution and Oratory.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
WILLIAM C. KE GLEB , C. E.,
Mathematics.
ROBERT L. GREEN, G. Ph.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. 0.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, 0. S. C.,
German.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. 0.,
Bookkeeping and Commercial Law.
Bro. FINAN, C. S. C.,
Gaelic. *
CHARLES PERCY MacHUGH, A. B.,
Latin and English.
ALPHAEUS B. REYNOLDS, A. B.,
Latin.
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B.,
English.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, A. B. LL. M.,
Law. .
WILLIAM J. MAHONEY, A. B.,
English and Mathematics.
VICTOR M. ARANA, E. E.
Spanish.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German, and Director of Band and Orchestra.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director of the Department of Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.

10
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, A. B.,
Greek and Music.
FRANCIS B. CORNELL, Litt. B.,
Music.
HENRY E. BROWN, Litt. B.,
Phonography and Typewriting.
OMER D. GREEN,
Telegraphy.
LOUIS J. CAREY,
Music.
WILLIAM B. KELLY,
Shopwork.
Bro. GAJETAN, C. S. C.	Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBINUS, C. S. C.	Bro. BENJAMIN, C. S. C.
Bro. MALACHY, C. S. C.	
PHILIP J. WEISS,
Director of Gymnasium.
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
^8
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the year
1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the late Superior
General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross. In an act
approved January 15, 1844, the Legislature of Indiana gave
the University power to grant degrees. The beginning of
this act is:	■
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That Edward Frederick Sorin, Frances Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse,
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate and
politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of Notre
Dame du Lac/ and by that name they shall have perpetual
succession, with full power and authority to confer and
grant, or cause to be conferred and granted, such degrees
and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences, and in law and
medicine, as are usually conferred and granted in other
Universities in the United States, provided, however, that
no degree shall be conferred or diplomas granted, except to
students who have acquired the same proficiency in the
liberal arts and sciences, and in law and medicine, as is
customary in other Universities in the United States/’
13
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE MAIN BUILDING.
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it is
five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls, some
dormitories and class-rooms and the refectories are in this
building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial Hall are
also here temporarily. This building, like all others in the
University, is lighted by electricty and gas, and heated by
steam. The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 feet in height from the floor to
the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori, and
the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt and many
chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells and the great
six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8 :oo a. m. to 9 :oo p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and about
100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the Musical
department, the reading rooms for Brownson and Carroll
Halls, and the University Theatre. The Theatre is equipped
with stage settings, and it will seat 1,200 persons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the build-
ing, is occupied by the Museum containing mineral, fossil,
and biological specimens.
THE CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first and second floors
of Science Hall.
On the second floor, and adjoining the General Museum,
is a large and well lighted room reserved for a library and
chemical museum. Here are a library of chemical journals
and books, and a steadily increasing collection of minerals,
chemicals, and chemical-technical products of all kinds,
designed to serve as illustrations of substances and processes
discussed in the various lecture courses. Adjoining this
room are, successively, an apparatus-room, filled with the
most modern apparatus for lecture and experimental work;
a chemical store room, where laboratory supplies may be
procured by the students; a lecture room, and a laboratory
for Qualitative and Quantitative Analysis. The laboratory
is furnished with four hoods, of good draught; the desks
are provided with water, gas, and the necessary reagents,
and fully equipped with apparatus for work in gas analysis,
organic analysis, and with apparatus for “Boiling Point
and Freezing Point Determinations.” The Balance Room,
adjoining, contains assay and analytical balances sensitive
to the one ten-thousandth of a gramme. The lecture room is
provided, among other things, with apparatus for stereopti-
con illustration, with electric batteries, and with a complete
set of charts illustrative of the process employed in modern
chemical industries.
The assay and furnace-room, on the first floor is equipped
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
with a set of gas furnaces of the most modern type, for the
operations of roasting, fusing, scorifying and cupelling
employed in the dry assay of ores.
The Department of
PHYSICS AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture room,
with a seating capacity for sixty-five students, adjoining the
rooms in which the apparatus is stored in dust-proof cases.
Several smaller rooms in the basement contain heavy piers
of masonry, for work with sensitive galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Laboratories:
IN MECHANICS, ETC.:
Large physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard metre,
Geneva cathetometer, capable of
measuring to one twenty-five
thousandth, of an inch.
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit recording chro-
nograph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Botary air pump and receivers,
A large clock with electrical
contact pieces,
Self winding clocks,
Several mercury barometers,
Two aneroid barometers.
in acoustics:
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
Set of electrically-operated tuning
forks by Koenig,
A Scott-Koenig Phonautograph,
Koenig’s movable tuning forks,
to draw compound curves on
smoked glass,
Three sets of organ pipes,
Pour sets of fine tuning forks,
Edison phonograph of earliest
type,
Apparatus for manometric obser-
vation of sound phenomena,
Sets of vibrating rods, tubes and
bells,
Large double siren,
A large tuning fork producing
the lowest audible sound,
A set of very small tuning forks
producing the highest audible
sounds,
Apparatus for producing longi-
tudinal vibrations in rods,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
A set of resonators mounted to-
gether with capsules for sen-
sitive flames, arranged for
the analysis of complex
sounds,
Mounted tuning forks carrying
small mirrors arranged to
perform Lissajou’s experi-
ment, producing complex
curves.
An electrical metronome,
in light:
Complete set of apparatus, made Set of large Nicol’s prisms mount-
by Soleil, Paris, for the meas- ed,
urement of the wave lengths Large compound prism to form
of light by the various inter- widely dispersed spectrum,
ference methods,	Two Rowland gratings, 14,000
Sets of polarization apparatus, lines to the inch,
Sets of lenses and spherical mir- Sets of photographs of solar spec-
rors,	trum by Rowland,
Two heliostats,	Several cameras with lenses and
Four spectroscopes,	attachments,
A polarizing saccharimeter, A well equipped dark-room for
Three projecting lanterns for gas photographic work,
or electric light, and 3,000 Photometric room and equipment,
slides,
in heat:
Melloni’s apparatus for measuring Steam engine indicator,
radiation, absorption and re- Calorimeters,
flection of heat, complete with Apparatus for determining the
a set of prepared sub- coefficient of linear expan-
stances,	sion, using the optical lever
Standard thermometers,	method.
Air thermometer,
IN ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM :
Ah absolute electrometer,
Standard resistance coils,
Holtz machine and apparatus for Historical seo of motors showing
illustrating static phenomena,
Ten galvanometers of various
types,
Ammeters and voltmeters,
One 2,000 lb. electro magnet,
Four induction coils,
Six bridges of different typeSj
evolution of the modern ma-
chine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type,
Several sets of storage cells,
Complete X<ray outfit,
Sets of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy.
16
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
In addition to the electrical apparatus in the Depart-
ment of Physics, the equipment for the practical work in
Electrical Engineering consists of engines, dynamos, instru-
ments. etc., of commercial size, as follows:
A three phase A. C. induction
motor, arranged to operate
on single phase circuits,
with a condensei’ compen-
sator,
A high frequency 1000 V., 33 K.
W., composite wound, Wood
alternator of the latest type,
with exciter- and a full set of
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of different
“ capacity,
A high tension transformer for
testing insulation,
An Edison bipolar 15 K. W. 125
V., generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and
fifteen lamps,
A Wood arc machine, capacity
25 lights.
An Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125 V.,
dynamo, with special wind-
ing,
A Van Depoele compound wound
dynamo,
A series wTound dynamo with
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors,
A forty horse power high speeed
automatic engine,
A power or foot lathe with wood
turning tools, drills and hand
tools for metals,
A set of wood working tools,
A set of tools for metal working,
Telegraph relays, sounders,
switchboards, etc.,
Telephone apparatus, including
subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop
manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops,
jacks, switches, lightning
arresters, etc.,
Automatic exchange switches of
different types,
A collection of historical sets,
including Reis’ transmitter
and receiver,
Standard portable bridge,
Common portable bridge,
Kohlrausch bridge for measuring
battery resistance, etc.,
Testing battery,
D’Arsonval and common galvano-
meters,
Resistance boxes, standard meg-
ohms, etc.,
Ballistic galvanometer, standard
condenser, etc., for capacity
work,
High resistance Thompson gal-
vanometer,
Standard cells,
Valtameter arranged for the com-
parison of incandescent lamps,
A plug switchboard controlling
all circuits,
A calibrating lamp rack,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
17
A small engine belted to shafting A
to drive a plating dynamo and
a buffer for cleaning and pol-
ishing work to be plated; A
solutions, tank, etc.,—in all
a complete outfit for elec-
trotype work,
A hot wire ammeter,
Twelve ammeters and volt-me- A
ters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current meas-
urements,
A set of inclined coil alternating
current portable instruments;
voltmeter, ammeter and watt-
meter,
A dynamometer type wattmeter,
set of parts of incandescent
lamps showing the various
stages in their manufacture,
large collection of porcelain
insulators, etc., used in elec-
trical work, including a lot
of insulators for high tension
transmission lines,
lot of armature core disks,
transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders,
pole pieces, samples of insu-
lation, commutator segments,
etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading
manufacturers of electrical
machinery,
Recording wattmeters of various A case of marked samples of wire
types,	insulators, lamps, and other
A lot of arc lamps series and construction materials,
constant potential, open and Library of practical technical
enclosed arcs of various types,
A collection of motor starting
rheostats,
books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and
trade publications.
EQUIPMENT IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF BIOLOGY, GEOLOGY,
AND MINERALOGY.
The Department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-
graduate students. All the class rooms are furnished with
charts and models necessary in teaching the different
courses. The arrangement of windows is such that the
rooms can be easily darkened so that a stereopticon and
lantern slides on the subjects of Botany, Zoology, and
Physiology may be used.
The Laboratories are well equipped with compound and
18
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a library
of books pertaining to Biological subjects. The Botanical
laboratory contains twenty-four compound microscopes and
all the requisite accessories for work in Vegetable Histology
and Cryptogamic Botany. The general laboratory of
Microscopy, Histology and Embryology is also supplied
with compound miscroscopes and their necessary accessory
apparatus and other equipments indispensable in the three
courses mentioned above.
The Bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound miscroscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and all
the improved apparatus employed in thorough and careful
work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a laboratory
of Photo-Micrography which contains a perfect photo-
micrographic instrument with a complete set of accessory
apparatus for experimentation, photographing microscopic
objects, making lantern-slides, etc. A large and fully
equipped dark-room adjoins this laboratory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-rooms,
and laboratories for the courses in Geology and Mineralogy.
The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms are well equipped
for work in blow-pipe analysis and assaying.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The Zoological collec-
tion on the second floor at present fills sixteen large cases
and represents typical forms of all the orders and genera of
vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large collection of
representative vertebrate skeletons has recently been added
to this part of the Museum.
The Botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the other
of Canada. There is also a second collection of the woods
and fruits of the United States, almost complete.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a care-
fully classified collection of minerals and ores. The opposite
series of cases contains a large Geological collection; some
of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil remains of
animal and plant life.
ENGINEERING HALL.
This building is situated directly south of Science Hall,
and is a large three-story brick building, well lighted and
heated. The two upper floors are given up to Chemistry
and Pharmacy. The General Inorganic, Organic and Ele-
mentary Chemical laboratories are on the third floor, while
the second floor is mostly taken up with Pharmaceutical lab-
oratories, a well equipped drug store, a lecture room and a
general stock room. Each laboratory is provided with ample
hood accommodations, and each desk is furnished with water,
gas and suction.
The southern portion of the second story of this Hall
is used for the
CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The equipment of this department is sufficient for all the
practice and exercises in the field necessary to illustrate and
teach the practical methods of engineering. The instru-
mental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit, two engineer’s
transits, with levels and vertical circles attached to telescopes,
one engineer’s wye level, and a plane table with all the attach-
ments, clinometers, chains, tapes, etc.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The wood shop, machine shop and blacksmith shop are on
the first floor. The wood shop is supplied with modern
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,.
work-benches fully equipped with the smaller tools neces-
sary for carpentry, twelve lathes for turning, a jig saw, a
revolving planer and a circular saw, the whole forming an
adequate equipment for a thorough mastery of joinery,
scroll work and pattern making.
The machine shop contains two horizontal slide valve
steam engines which are used for experimental purposes.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived from
the electric station of the University, two ten-horse power
motors being used for this purpose, from which power is
transmitted to the various machines by a line of shafting
running the entire length of the building. The latest im-
proved lathes have been provided, nine in number, varying
from a five inch swing- in the smallest to a large engine lathe
with sixteen foot bed having a capacity for work twenty-
eight inches in diameter. Two drill presses, a large planer,
a shaping machine and a Brown and Sharp milling machine
complete the outfit, thus making the machine shop a model
of its kind. The blacksmith shop has the usual complement
for teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the proper
disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of sand, setting
up and drawing simple and complicated patterns and core
making. This is supplemented with lectures on the proper
mixing and heating of cast iron for the various purposes
for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
engineering students have'access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently remod-
eled and made to compare favorably with the best contem-
porary practice. The main steam plant contains two bat-
teries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregating about
1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers is in-
stalled the necessary testing apparatus as follows:—a Worth-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
ington hot water meter for measuring the amount of feed
water, a feed water thermometer for getting temperature of
same, a high range thermometer for the temperature of gen-
erated steam, a throttling calorimeter for ascertaining the
quality of steam and an automatic recording pressure guage
giving a continuous record of the boiler pressure. Provision
is made for finding the temperature and pressure of the
flue gases by means of a pyrometer and draught gauge and
for obtaining samples of flue gas for analysis. These, with
a Carpenter coal calorimeter for determining the heating
value of the fuel, comprise a full and complete equipment for
giving the student an intimate knowledge of the practical
part of boiler management and testing. A Webster feed
water heater and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two large
Worthington fire pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with a capacity of
1500 gals, per minute, with numerous separators, steam
traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete the apparatus
in the main steam plant. A McEwen high speed automatic
engine, an Armington and Simms engine of similar type
and several low speed horizontal engines with planimeters,
indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules and other necessary
instruments are used in studying the operation of the steam
engine, distribution and economy of steam, regulation, valve
setting and heat wastes.
SORIN HALL.
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings 112
feet in depth. It has a basement and three high stories.
The building contains 101 private rooms for advanced stu-
dents. These rooms are furnished, and students of Senior,
Junior or Sophomore standing in any of the Collegiate
Courses are not required to pay rent. On the first floor
there is a chapel, a law lecture-room and a law library. The
22
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
building is lighted with electricity and heated with steam.
In the basement are a recreation room and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL.
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has three
stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width. There
are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation rooms
and a chapel. The building is lighted with electricity and
gas and heated with steam. For room-rent and care of the
room a fee is charged.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This buiding is located near the Engineering Hall and is
designed for an equatorial telescope and for a transit or
meridian circle. The equatorial telescope now in the build-
ing is intended for students of Astronomy, and is in use
whenever favorable weather permits.
THE INFIRMARY.
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measurement
and three stories in height, contains rooms for the use of
students during illness. The sick are nursed by Sisters of
the Holy Cross, and the University physician visits them
daily.
THE GYMNASIUM.
The gymnasium, which was burnt down in November,
1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 100 feet in dimen-
sions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on the ground:
it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball-practice, basket-
ball and military drill. The gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet
and is furnished with a full set of new apparatus; below
that are the offices, dressing-rooms and showerbaths. Friends
o'f the University and the alumni contributed more than
$3,000 to the fund for re-building.	’
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
23
The Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball dia-
mond and the cinder track, and a portable stand near the
football rectangle. The field contains ten acres of ground,
and is a gift to the University from Mr. Warren A.
Cartier, C. E., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS.
There are numerous other large buildings connected with
the the University; of these the principal are: Saint Joseph’s
Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House, the Presby-
tery, and Saint Edward’s Hall.	-
24
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
DISCIPLINE,
4
Official bi-monthly reports of each student’s class standing
will be sent to parents and guardians.
The Faculty maintains that an education which gives little
attention to the development of the moral part of a youth’s
character is pernicious, and that it is impossible to bring
about this development where students are granted absolute
relaxation from all Faculty government while outside the
class-room. A young man must learn obedience to law by
the actual practice of obedience, not by mere appeals to
honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtained except where
discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown to be salutary
by experience, are enforced at the University:
I.	No student shall leave the University grounds with-
out permission from the President or the person delegated to
represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University im-
mediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is binding
not only at the beginning of the scholastic year, but at all
other times when leave of absence has been granted. Un-
necessary delay in South Bend is looked upon as a serious
violation of rule.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in exam-
inations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the use
of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized ab-
sence from the college limits are among the causes for
expulsion. In a case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees will be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discontinued
without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson Hall;
those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll Hall;
and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to those
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls that have
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or Corby
Hall leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious demoninations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
service in the College Church at stated times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is strictly prohibited.
11.	To guard against clandestine and improper cor-
respondence, the President reserves the right to supervise
letters to and from students.
12.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of study
will not be permitted, but students are expected to take
part in outdoor sports and other games.
13.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
14.	All athletic associations of the students are strictly
26
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
forbidden to countenance anything that savors of profes-
sionalism.
15.	All athletics will be governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the regula-
tions adopted by the Conference Colleges. The President of
the University -and members of the Faculty will compose this
Board, and reserve the right of a final decision on all ques-
tions concerning athletics. The Faculty Board will deter-
mine the amateur standing of the members of the athletic
teams, and apportion the finances. By this means indiscreet
and unconsidered action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Each winter eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Concerts are also given monthly by organiza-
tions from without.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
MEDALS AND HONORS.
The Quan Gold Medal is awarded yearly to the student
in the Senior Class of the Classical Course that has the
highest average over 80 per centum.
The Meehan Gold Medal, founded by Mrs. J. Meehan,
of Covington, is awarded to a Senior student in the
English, History and Economics or Classical Course for an
English Essay. This medal is awarded only when the best
essay has attained a fixed standard.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal, presented by Mr. A.
Hughes, of Denver, is awarded for the best record in
Mathematics in the Civil Engineering Course.
The Breen Gold Medal, founded by Mr. William P.
Breen, of Fort Wayne, is awarded for Oratory.
The Barry Medal, founded by Mr. P. T. Barry, of
Chicago, is awarded to the winner of the Senior contest in
Elocution.
The Mason Medal, presented by Mr. George .Mason, of
Chicago, is awarded to the student of Carroll Hall having
the best record for the Scholastic year.
The Studebaker Debating Prize, Seventy-five Dollars,
presented by the Hon. Clement Studebaker, of South
Bend, is divided among the three members of the University
Debating Team.	•
First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby and
Brownson Halls that have maintained throughout the
year an average of at least 90 per centum for class-work
and observance of regulations. A first-honor man for the
first year receives a diploma, the second year a gold
medal. The medabmay be received also during the suc-
ceeding year of the course.
28
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance), $ io.oo
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern
Languages included) Lodging, Washing, and
Mending of Linens, per Session of nearly ten
Months,..............................400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (first year only), ...	$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition, .	.	250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery account, .	10.00
Lecture Course,............................3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra
expenses the student may wish to incur, such as charges
for Private Room, Special Courses (listed below),
Spending money.
On January 15th:
Balance on Board and Tuition, ....	$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have
incurred.
The charge of $400 covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100
per Scholastic Year. This latter sum is accepted as an entirety for
tuition during the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in
whole or in part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of
the fundamental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby
brought to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving
and absenting himself from the University at any time or for any
cause without proper notice and permission. However, an exception
is made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home because
of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any
student whose account with the University has not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE—
For whole Session of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS:
Sorin Hall: Seniors, Juniors and
Sophomores, Free; Freshmen, .	. $50.00
Corby Hall, .	....	$80.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves to the
regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the following
may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year. The charges
will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons on or Mandolin.................$30.00
Piano and use of Instru- Use of each Instrument... $ 5.00
ment ................$60.00	Vocal Culture............$40.00
Use of Piano for advanced	Elocution—Special Course, $10.00
Students ............$30.00	Use of Library...........$ 5.00
Telegraphy ..............$25.00	‘Scholastic/'College paper, $ 1.50
Typewriting—Pull Course,	Artistic Drawing.........$25.00
(20 lessons).........$ 5.00	Applied Electricity......$40.00
Phonography .............$25.00	Special Lecture and Con-
Practical Mechanics......$30.00 cert Course................$	3.00
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,	Gymnastics—Full Course
Flute, Cornet,Clarinet,	(20 lessons).........$	5.00
Laboratory Fees Listed under Regular Courses.
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a degree, $io; Commercial
Course, $5.
REMARKS.
The Entrance fee, cost of Books, Music and Laboratorv
fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, postoffice money
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange
will be charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Browns on, Sorin, Corby and Carroll Halls are closed
during the months of July and August.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the
University, a limited number of students aspiring to the
ecclesiastical state can be received at special rates. Fuller
information can be obtained by addressing the President.
The year 1903-1904 will open on Tuesday, September 8.
Courses of Instruction.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31
COURSES IN PHILOSOPHY.

I.
(a)	Physiological Psychology—This course is a fairly
comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of con-
sciousness.
(b)	Experimental Psychology—Psycho-physical meth-
ods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology—The problems of the mind.
Nature, origin, and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consectitive. Lectures three hours
a week for two terms.'}
(d)	Laboratory Exercises—Experiments will be con-
ducted with special reference to their value as aids to
introspection. Sanford: Course in Experimental Psy-
chology.	'
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
II.
(a)	Elements of Epistemology. A study of the Scho-
lastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teachings of
Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley, Plume, Kant and
Spencer.
[This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and
General Metaphysics and will be given at the
beginning of the year during the time prescribed
for these studies.]
(b)	Logic—Hyslop: Elements of Logic.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
32
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
(c)	General Metaphysics—Transcendental concepts:
their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a zveek for one term.}
(d)	Cosmology—The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.}
(e)	Theodicy—The existence of God. His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.}
(f)	Student Discussions—From time to time through-
out the year students will be required to read and discuss
papers on various subjects in the field of philosophic
inquiry.
III.
Principles of Ethics—(Q. I.) Man’s last End and Happi-
ness ; the Purpose of Man in this life, fQ. 2.) Human
Acts; Responsibility; Merit; Obstacles to Human Acts.
(Q. 3-) Origin of Morality; Hedonism; Altruism; Sympa-
thy; Essential Difference between Good and Evil; the
Constituents of Morality; the Eternal Law. (Q. 4.) The
Natural Moral Law; its Existence and Characters; Evolu-
tion. (Q. 3.) The Positive Law. (Q. 6.) On Conscience;
Good Faith; Doubtful Conscience and Reflex Principles.
(Q. 7.) Passions in Practical Life; their Classification; their
Imputability. (.Q. 8.) The Moral Virtues; Stoicism; Epi-
cureanism ; Christianity.
(a)	Individual Duties—Notions of Right and Duty.
(Q. 1.) The Duty of Man to God; Necessity of External
2nd Public Worship; Obligation of Prayer; the fact of Sac-
rifice. (Q. 2.) The Duty of Man to Himself; Culture of
the Intelligence, the Will, the Imagination, the Memory;
Care of the body; Suicide essentially Unlawful, fQ. 3.)
The Duty of Man to his Fellowmen; on Truthfulness and
38
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
*
Lying, Homicide and Self-Defence; on Duelling; on Private
Ownership, Socialism, Communism, Single Tax; on the
Right to Honor and Reputation; on Contracts and Usury.
(b)	Social Duties—fQ. i.) The Domestic Society and
Marriage; Monogamy; Polygamy and Divorce; Relations
between Parents and Children. (Q. 2.) Education: the
Part of the Parents, the Church and the State. (Q. 3.) On
Slavery in Ancient and Modern Times; Duties of Masters
and Servants. (Q. 4.) On Capital and Labor.
[Five hours a week for one Term.}
IV.
(a)	Sociology—Necessity of a Public Society; the City
(Q. 1.) Origin of the Civil and Political Organization; The-
ories of Hobbes and J. J. Rousseau; source of authority in
Human Society. (Q. 2.) On the Divine Right of Kings;
the Absolute Sovereignty of the People; the Reasonable
System. (Q. 3.) The different Forms of Government; the
Primitive Polity; the best Form of Government; Opinions
of O. A. Brownson. (Q. 4.) On Modern Democracy; the
Position of the Church; the Usurpation and Transfer of the
Supreme Power; on the Government de Facto. (Q. 5.) On
Despotism; is it Lawful to Resist a Tyrant ? Theory of St.
Thomas and Machiavelli on Government. (Q. 6.) The Dis-
tinction of the three Social Powers; Parliamentary and
Representative Government. (Q. 7.) Qualities of a good
Ruler; the Question of the Poor. (Q. 8.) Public Liberties;
Freedom of the Press and of Conscience; the Right of the
Sword; on War and Treaties. (Q. 9.) The International
Law. (Q. 10.) Civilization. (Q. 11.) Church and State.
(b)	Government of the United States*—History of the
Constitution; the Legislative Department of the U. S.;
— * This course is sketched according to the principles laid down
in “ The American Republic/1 by 0. A. Brownson, and w The Ameri-
can Commonwealth,” by Mr. Bryce.
34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the Executive Department of the U. S.; the President and
the Cabinet; the Judicial Department of the U. S.; the
Supreme Court; the Rights of the States and the United
States; Jury, Suffrage and Elections; Ballot Systems;
Parties and Party Machinery; Patriotism and Religion.
This Course is for Classical Students.
(c)	History of Philosophy*—Schools and Systertis.—
Ancient Philosophy: Pythagoras—Anaxagoras—The Soph-
istsand Socrates.—Plato and Aristotle.—Epicurus.—Zeno.—
Pyrrho.—Eclecticism and Neo - Platonism.—Cicero and
Seneca. Philosophy of the Middle Ages—Christian Platon-
ism; St. Augustine.—Scholasticism: St. Thomas of Aquin.
—Renaissance and modern Philosophy: Neo-Platonism.—
Francis Bacon—Thomas Flobbes—Descartes—Spinoza—
Leibnitz—John Locke. Materialism.—David Hume.—Kant
and his disciples.—Darwin and Monism.—A. Comte and
Positivism.—Herbert Spencer.—T. Huxley—Agnosticsm
and Evolution.
* The text-book used is Weber’s ft History of Philosophy.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
35
COURSES IN GREEK.
I.
Lysias—Orations selected. Short history of the Attic
orators.
Homer—Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Epitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., V. Stoffel.
[Four hours- a week for one term.]
II.
Lysias—Orations selected.
Homer—Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St. John Chrysostom—Eutropius.	.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
°	III.
Herodotus—Selections. Study of Herodotus’s dialect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
“ Herodotus—Selections.
Selections from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Gregory—Machabees.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
r
Demostheness—De Corona. Review of political situa-
tion and events in reference to the oration. Aeschines’
speech against Ctesiphon compared with the speech on
the Crown.
[Three hours a zveek for one term.]
Thucydides—Book I. State and condition of Greece
before the Peloponnesian war. Importance of this war
in Greek history. The speeches in the congress of the
allies held at Sparta in respect to the complaints made
against the Athenians will be carefully analysed and the
choicest specimens of the condensed and vigorous style
of Thucydides will form the subjects for special class
interpretations. Stylistic differences between pure Attic
and archaic Attic will be pointed out.
[Tzuo hours a zveek for one term.]
N. B. During this course special attention will be given
to Attic syntax. Short introduction to textual and ex-
egetical criticism practically shown by passages selected
for that purpose. This is done in the belief that it is the
best way to make students appreciate the notes in the
editions of the classical authors.
Practical Exercises—Embodying idiomatic expressions
and constructions of the authors read.
[Twice a month for one term.]
VI.
Thucydides—One book selected for each year. Thucy-
dides, the philosopher of history.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Aeschylus—One play, to vary each year. In connection
with this will be discussed the origin of the drama.
Aeschylus the real founder of tragedy. The important
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
37
part which the chorus holds in the early tragedy. Relig-
ious and moral ideas of Aeschylus, to which Necessity
(fatum) gives the key-note. The structure of a Greek
tragedy, the iambic trimeter and the lyric measures will
be sufficiently explained so as to be properly appreciated
by the students.
Incidentally also the Greek festivals, at which the plays
were represented, and the Dionysiac theatre will be
spoken of.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Sophocles—Oedipus Tyrannus and Antigone. Digest
of the Theban legends. Religious views of Sophocles
compared with those of Aeschylus.
[Tzvo hours a week for one term.]
Practical Exercises in Greek Composition.
[Twice a month for one term.
Elements of Greek Literature—Students shall use
Jebb’s Primer of Greek Literature.
[Twice a month for one term,
VII.
Plato—Apology and Crito. Study of the character of
Socrates,—a philosopher or a sophist? His friends and
enemies. Athenian court-proceedings and jurisprudence.
[Two hours a week for one term.
N. B. Students are required to read the symposium of
Plato outside of class.
Euripides—One play, to vary each year. Religious
tendencies of Euripides. His dramatic art. The frequent
resolutions in the lambic Trimeter of Euripides, com-
pared with those of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Pictur-
esqueness—the chief element in his plays, as heroic
grandeur and artistic perfection were the characteristic
38
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
traits in Aeschylus and Sophocles respectively. Euri-
pides’ right to the title of Scenic Philosopher. .
[Two hours a week for one term.
Short Introduction to Modern Greek—Reading of
Modern Greek stories and anecdotes. Stoffel.
Lectures in Greek Literature—Based on Christ’s Grie-
chische Litteratur-Geschichte in Iwan v. Muller’s Hand-
buch der Klassischen Altertums Wissenschaft.
[Twice a month for one term.]
VIII.
Aristophanes—Two plays, to vary from year to year.
The Acliarnians and Knights; the Frogs and Clouds; or
the Birds and Wasps. In connection with the reading of
these plays will be treated the Greek comedy,—its origin,
nature and aim. Aristophanes—the great burlesque
critic of Athenian life and manners, political, intellectual,
moral and social. The plays are selected especially in
view of this point. The structure of comedy compared
with the structure of tragedy.
[Two hours cl week for one term.]
Euripides—Electra. With this will be compared and
partially read in class the Electra of Sophocles and the
Choephori of Aeschylus, on the same subject.
[One hour a week for one term.]	’
Pindar—Selected odes, in connection with which the
.public games of Greece will be considered.
[Elective, one hour a week for one term.]
Cursory Reading of the Greek Fathers—St. Basil—The
Martyr Gordius. St. John Chrysostom—The Return of
Bishop Flavian. St. Gregory Nazianzen—Funeral Ora-
tion of Caesarius. ,
[Elective, one hour a week for one term.]
Lectures in the history of Greek literature.
[Twice a month for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
COURSES IN LATIN.
I.
Livy—Book XXI. Study of Livy’s Grammar and Style.
Cicero—Epistles selected.
Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
II.
Livy—Book XXII.
Cicero—De Senectute and De Amicitia.
Pliny—Epistles selected.
Prose Composition. Writing of continuous prose.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
III.
Cicero—De Oratore. Book I.
Horace—Odes and Epodes. Study of Metrical Sys-
tems; Peculiarities of Style; Plan of Composition; Com-
parison with Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
IV.
Tacitus—Dialogus De Oratoribus.
Horace—Odes and Epodes; or, Satires selected. See
Course III.	.
Terence—Phormio. Short history of Greek and Roman
comedy.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
40
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
V.
Livy—Roman History, First Book. In the reading of
the text particular attention is called to the rules of
Syntax—roots and derivation of words—and to Ancient
History, Geography and Mythology.
Latin Composition tw'ice a week, either paraphrases
or original. Short fables and stories.
Horace—Epistula ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
criticized from a Philological and Literary standpoint.
Ancient Literature—Historians and Lyric Poets: their
lives, their works, their genius.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VI.
Tacitus—Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
Terence—Andria. Sight reading.
Horace—The Literary Epistles.
Weekly practice in written Composition, Latin Con-
versation and Versification.
Ancient Literature—Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Quintilian—De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth and
* Twelfth. Translation. Explanation embraces a literary
criticism of Grecian and Roman Orators, and practical
remarks on Latin Idioms and the fine arts of Antiquity.
Short Orations or Dissertations, and practical Conver-
sations take place weekly.
Plautus—Captivi. The study of the play gives a full
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
41
knowledge of the Characters, the plot and the Style, the
archaic Forms, and the Constructions peculiar to the
author.
Ancient Literature—Orators, especially Demosthenes
and Cicero.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
VIII.
Cicero—De Officiis. Partly sight-reading. Besides the
study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of
Grecian Philosophy, and continual reference is made to
Course III. in Philosophy.
Oratorical and Philosophical Compositions alternate
weekly. Latin Conversation on general topics.
Lucretius—De Rerum Natura. Select passages. Synop-
sis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous
philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the
errors of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature—Philosophers, particularly Socra-
tes, Plato and Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Five hours a week for one term. ]
42
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAilE.
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
I.
(a)	Prose Forms, with special treatment of the Essay
and the Oration. Genung’s Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part ii, and Heydrick’s How to Study Literature.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
(b)	Literature.—Pancoast’s Introduction to American
Literature.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
(c)	Lyric Poetry.
[One hour a week for two terms. ]
II.
[One theme a week in all classes below.}
(a)	English Prosody—Scansion; rhythmical units—
quantity, accent, the phrase; blank verse, cadences, allit-
eration, metre, rime, stanzas, French forms, sonnets, and
other lyric forms.
(b)	Dramatic Analysis—The parts of a tragedy; intro-
ductions, scenic passages, rising actions, climaxes, tragic
incidents, falling actions, catastrophes, forces, plots, un-
derplots, characterization, nemesis, values, unity, prob-
ability, completeness, etc. Comedy. Application to
Shakespearian plays and to the modern drama.
(c)	Shakespeare—Reading with literary and dramatic
analysis of Macbeth, King John, Julius Caesar, King Rich-
ard III., Coriolanus, As You Like It, Twelfth Night, Much
Ado About Nothing. Hudson’s and the “Arden” texts are
used and the entire play is read in each case.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA ALE.
43
(d)	The History of English Literature up to Shake-
speare. A Handbook of English Literature, by Austin
Dobson, and Ward’s English Poets are used to direct this
course.	-
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
(a)	The Laws of the Epic, of Prose Fiction, of the Lyric
and the Essay. Critical application of the laws to models.
(b)	Shakespeare—Reading, etc., as in Course II. (c) of
A Winter's Tale, Romeo and Juliet, King Henry IV., Part
I., King Henry IV., Part IL, KingTIenry V., A Midsummer
Night's Dream, Anthony and Cleopatra.
(c)	History of English Literature from Shakespeare to
the nineteenth century. Models. Dobson and Ward
used as in Course II. (d).
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
IV.
(a)	Shakespeare—Reading, etc., as in Course II. (c) of
King Lear, Hamlet, Othello, The Tempest, The Merchant of
Venice, Cy mb eUne, King Henry VIIL, King Richard II.
(b)	The Leading Poets and Prose Writers of the Nine-
teenth Century. Lectures.
(c)	Old English—An elementary course in Anglo-
Saxon grammar and reading. (This division of Course
IV. is elective.)
[Five hours a week for tzvo terms.]
44
UNIVERSITY OF NOT1® DAME.
Courses in Elocution and Oratory.
I.
Readings and Declamations.—This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Each
student will be required to give two declamations.
[Two hours a week for first term.}
o II.
Continuation of Course I.—Each student will be re-
quired to give three declamations.
[Two hours a week for second term.}
III.
Practical Elocution—Exercises in breathing, voice-
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation and
emphasis and their application in the reading of selections.
Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
[Two hours a week for first term.}
IV.
Continuation of Course III.—Further exercises in
breathing, voice-culture, and action. Quality, Force, Pitch
and Time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on
the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s
Practical Elocution.
[Two hours a week for second term.}
V.
Oral Discussions—The application of Formal Logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
4»
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and a
course in Logic are required for admission to.this course.
It is limited to 24 students.
[Two hours a week for hr st term.]
VI.
Shakespearian Reading—The critical and artistic read-
ing of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with
stage action. The students present the play by scenes
before the class. Courses III. and IV”. are required for
admission to this course. It is limited to 24 students, and
alternates with course VII. below.
[Two hours a week for second term.]
VII.
Oratory—A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Each student is required to write and
deliver a biographical oration on one of the great orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III. and
IV. above and course I. in English are required for ad-
mission to this course. It is limited to 24 students and
alternates with course VI. above.
[Two hours a week for second term.]
VIII.
Assembly Work—This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists of
debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptus and drill work in parliamentary law. Wed-
nesday from 1 to 3. One hour credit.
[Throughout the year.]
46
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN HISTORY.
I.
ANCIENT HISTORY.
(a)	Ancient Greece—To the conquest by Rome of the
Hellenic world. Readings, and examinations on required
texts. * This course is given in an alternate year with
Course I. (b).
[Four hours a week for one year.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the Barbarian invasions. Read-
ings and examinations on required texts. This course is
given in an alternate year with Course I. (a).
In both courses, the student is required to become familiar
with the institutions of the ancient world, and to study the
same in De Coulanges’ The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
II.
MEDIAEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY.
(a)	The History of the Middle Ages from the invasion
of the barbarians, and the history of the periods of the
Renaissance and the Reformation to 1603. Readings and
examinations on required texts.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
(b)	The General History of Europe from the beginning
of the 17th century to the present time. Readings and
examinations on required tex Is.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
47
III.
The history of the British Isles to the Revolution of 1689
—Readings and examinations on required texts. The stu-
dent is required to obtain by direct reading and examina-
tions a special knowledge of the development of the political
institutions of Great Britain, using Feilden’s Constitutional
History.
[Five hours a week for one year]
IV.
AMERICAN HISTORY.
(a)	American History from its beginning to 1763—
Readings and examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for five months.]
(b)	American History from 1763 to the present time—
Readings, lectures and examinations. There is first given
by lectures an outline of the political condition of the Col-
onies under the Crown, the causes leading up to the Revolu-
tion of 1776, the Revolution, the political status of the States
after Independence, the Confederation of 1781, the causes
leading to the formation of the Constitution, and the Con-
stitutional Convention. This is followed by a thorough
treatment of the political history of the United States since
1789, using as- an outline text, Johnson's American Politics.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
48
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE.
(a)
ECONOMICS.
I.	The Elements of Economics, viz.:—Land, Human
Exertions and Capital; Value, Money and Credit; Rent,
Interest, Profit and Wages; and Population and Consump-
tion. The text-book used is Walker’s Manual of Political
Economy.
[Four hours a week for five months.}
II.	Industrial History and the history of Economic
Thought. Readings, lectures and examinations on re-
quired texts.
[Three hours a week for one year.}
III.	Money, Credit and Banking, with special treat-
ment of the monetary experience of the United States.
Lectures, readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for five months.}
IV.	Distribution—A course covering the Land and
Labor Questions and Socialism. Lectures, readings and
examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for five months.}
POLITICS.
t
V.	The Elements of Politics—Lectures and examina-
tions on required texts.
[Two hours a week for five months.}
VI.	The American Constitution and Political Institu-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
49
tions. Lectures, readings, and examinations on required
texts.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
VII.	Jurisprudence—A course covering (a) The out-
lines of the Science of Law, (b) The elements of Interna-
tional Law, and (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman
and Canon Law. Lectures, readings and examinations on
required texts.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
(c)
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
VIII.	The Elements of Sociology—Lectures, readings
and examinations on required texts.
[Two hours a week for five months.]
50
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
s
COURSES IN ROMANCE LANGUAGE.
This Course includes the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
Its principal aim is to impart an accurate reading knowl-
edge of literary works written in these languages. In the
study, however, of Old French and Provencal special at-
tention will be paid to Philology.
I.
COURSES IN FRENCH.
Houghton’s French by Reading. Un Cas de Conscience.
Super’s Reading from French History.
[Five hours a week.]
II.
French Composition. L’Avare. Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon. Le Roi des Montagnes. Picciola. Zola’s Le Reve.
[Three hours a week.]
III.
La Poudre aux Yeux. Athalie. Hernani. Les Confes-
sions d’un Ouvrier. Le Barbier de Seville. Le Malade
Imaginaire. Les Fourberies de Scapin. Pourceaugnac.
Les Facheux, L’Amour Medecin. Le Misanthrope. Cinna.
Polyeucte. ‘
[Two hours a week.]
N. B.—The books used are not necessarily the same
every year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
51
COURSES IN SPANISH.
I.
Introductory Course—General outlines of grammar
with composition. Translation of easy tales from Trueba,
Fernan Caballero, Perez Escritch, etc., with select Fables
of Samaniego, and Iriarte.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
II.
Advanced Course—Spanish Prose and Poetry of the
18th and 19th centuries, with composition and the history
of the literature of the period.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
III.
Literature of the 16th and 17th centuries: Cervantes,
Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the literature of
the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
Early Spanish—El Poema del Cid. History of the lit-
erature of the 15th century.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN ITALIAN.
A two years’ course. The chief work of this course is a
critical study of Dante’s Divina Commedia. Reading from
Tasso, Petrarca, Ariosto’s Satires, Manzoni, etc.
COURSES IN PORTUGUESE.
I.
/
Wall’s Portuguese Conversation Grammar—Texts:
Camillo Castello Branco, “Perfil do marquez de Pombal;”
Pinheiro Chagas, “Novellas HistoricasHerculano,
“Lendas e narrativasJoao de Deus, “Campo de flores.”
52
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II.
Sermoes do Padre Antonio Vieira; Camoes, “Os Lusia-
das.” History of Portuguese literature.
COURSES IN OLD FRENCH.
9
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying the
formation of the French language from the popular Latin.
For this purpose a work like Bracket’s Grammaire
Historique will be studied. It is under this point of view
that Old French authors will be read, especially La Chanson
de Roland.
COURSES IN PROVENCAL.
Language and literature, with reading from the works of
the Troubadours.
COURSES IN GERMAN.
^8
I.
Grammar—Joynes-Meissner. Marchen und Erzahlungen,
Guerber. Vol. I and II.
Themes—Original and imitation work.
[Five hours a week.]
II.
Special Course for students in the English and Scien-
tific Courses.
Grammar—Joynes-Meissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Three hours a week.]
III.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Two hours a week.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	M
COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
I.
Algebra—This course includes a study of the binomial
. theorem, the theory of logarithms, -choice, chance, var-
iables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
thorough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation; detached coefficients, surd and imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
equations. Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s theo-
rem ; Horner’s method; roots of complex number and
trigonometric solution of cubic equations.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
Il-
Analytic Geometry—This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections, their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; higher * plane
curves, equations of the third degree; different systems
of coordinates; transformation of coordinates; spirals;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces of
revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric sur-
faces and supplementary propositions.
III.
Calculus, Differential— This course, as also Courses IV.
and V., is designed to meet the requirements of Engineering
students. It includes a study of the methods for the dif-
54
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ferentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions; suc-
cessive differentiation and differential coefficients; treat-
ment of implicit and compound functions; expansion of
functions; indeterminate forms; partial differential coef-
ficients of the first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature; radius of curvature; envelopes; singular
points of curves, maxima and minima of functions of
one independent variable, and of several independent
variables; tracing curves, differentials of arcs, plane
areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus, Integral—Integration of elementary forms
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalization
and by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals;
definite integrals, limits of integration; double integration
applied to plane areas; rectification of plane curves; quadra-
tures of plane areas and surfaces of revolution; surface and
volume of any solid; intrinsic equation of a curve. This
course is supplemented by numerous exercises and examples.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
V.
Differential Equations—An elementary course for en-
gineering students, supplementary to the Course of In-
tegral Calculus. It embraces: equations of the first order
and first degree; equations of the first order, but not of
the first degree; singular solutions; linear equations with
constant coefficients; special forms of equations of higher
orders. Numerous applications to Mechanics and Phys-
ics are introduced during the course.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAYE.
55
VI.
Elective Work—-The prescribed Courses in Pure
Mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students necessary to constitute a class in
any one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Chrystal,
(b) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock,
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Differential Equa-
tions, Elementary Course, Murray, (f) Advanced Cal-
culus, Byerly, Todhibnter, Williamson, (g) Advanced
Analytic Geometry, Salmon, (h) Analytic Geometry of
Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (i) Quaternions,
Flardy, with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.']
COURSES IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
&
I.
Descriptive Geometry—In this course are considered-
problems on the point, right line, and plane; single
curved, double curved, and warped surfaces; problems
relating to tangent planes to single curved, double curved,
and warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces by planes;
tangencies, development of surfaces; spherical projec-
tions ; orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylindrical,
and conic projections; construction of maps, shades and
shadows; linear perspective; isometric projections;
theory and plates. Numerous practical problems and
56
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA1IE.
exercises requiring the application of the principles of
Descriptive Geometry are added by the instructor.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying—This course comprises the whole theory of
land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment of
the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods of
measuring; relocation of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land; divid-
ing up land; Public Lands survey.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Surveying—Field practice and application of theory;
adjustments and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field the theory of which is taught in
the class-room; practice in keeping field notes; computa-
tions and plots.
[Four hours a week for the spring term.]
IV.
Higher Surveying—This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
Engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit
and stadia; mining surveying; mining claims; survey of
mines with shafts and drifts; determining positions of
ends of tunnels, and depths below surface; theory of hy-
drographic and city surveying; geodetic surveying and
levelling; measuring base lines; adjustments of angles,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	57
triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude and azimuth; time
and longitude; changing mean time into sidereal time and
sidereal time to mean time.
[Five hours a week for one term,}
V.
Surveying—Exercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the field, levelling; practice in hydro-
graphic surveying.
[Four hours a week for the spring term.}
VI.
Railroad Surveying—This course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary sur-
vey for a railroad; theory of maximum economy in grades
and curves; location of curves by deflection angles and
offsets; obstacles to location of curves; special problems
in curves; theory of compound curves; turnouts and
crossings; compound transition curves; cubic parabola;
curving the rail on curves and elevation of outer rail;
easing grades on curves; vertical curves; earthwork and
prismoidal formula; theory of excavation and embankment;
correction in excavation on curves; cross-section leveling.
[Five hours a zveek for one term.} •
VIL
Railroad Surveying—Exercises in the field; staking out
and- running tangents, simple, compound and transition
curves; execution on the ground of many problems previ-
ously treated theoretically; survey for a short line of rail-
road, leveling, cross-section work, and setting slope stakes;
making profiles and maps; calculating the necessary ex-
cavations and embankments and cost of construction;
culverts.
[Four hours a week for one term.}
58
UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics—The aim of this course is to pre-
pare students of Engineering for the study of the courses
of Applied Mechanics. The course comprises a study of
the fundamental principles of Statics, Kinematics, and
Kinetics. The subjects selected are studied with the
object of thoroughly preparing the engineering students
to pursue the technical and practical branches of their
respective courses. Some of the topics considered in this
course are: work, energy, conservation of energy; power,
composition and resolution of forces, centre of gravity,
centre of mass, moment of inertia, acceleration, dynamics
of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
IX.
Mechanics of Materials—This course is intended to
meet the requirements of Engineering students, and to
prepare them by a study of the action and effect of forces
on beams and structures to design economically and intel-
ligently the parts entering into a complete structure. The
course comprises a study, according to the latest and
most approved methods, of tension and its effect on ma-
terials, compression, theories of flexure and rupture from
transverse stress, shearing stress, transverse strength,
beams of uniform resistance, various forms, and loaded
in any manner,design and strength of beamsand columns,
effect of long continued stresses, and repeated stresses,
factor of safety and working stresses, strength of pipes
and cylinders, theory and practice of riveting, torsion,
transmission of power by shafts, continuous girders,
equation of curves of deflection, theorem of three mo-
ments, moment at any support, the resilience of materials,
apparent stresses and true stresses, etc., etc.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
59
X.
Bridges and Roofs—-This course comprises a study of
the different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses,
and the calculation of the strains produced when loaded in
any manner, the weight of the structure and the effect of
wind included. Both graphical and anaytical methods are
used. Besides the various systems of trussed bridges,
which are studied in detail, the plate girders, suspension
bridges, cantilever bridges, draw bridges, and roofs of
various designs are given equal attention; the purpose
being to familiarize the student with the different forms
and to enable him to design and to estimate the cost of
construction.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Graphical Statics—This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centres of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically determ-
ined by the application of the principles of the force and
equilibrium polygons; also the determination of stresses in
bridge trusses with parallel chords and with broken chords
caused by uniform loads and locomotive-wheel loads;
graphical determination of stresses in roof trusses, graphical
treatment of the arch, symmetrical and unsymmetrical cases;
graphical method for arch-ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed
ends; stress diagrams; temperature stresses; braced arches;
graphics applied to continuous girders. This course is sup-
plemented by full explanations, notes, examples, and prob-
lems.
{Five hours a week for one term.]
60
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRH DAME.
XII.
Engineering—This course is taken by students of Civil
Engineering in the Senior Year, and teaches the principles
of the science of Civil Engineering and the most approved
methods of constructing engineering works, such as piers,
abutments, foundations, coffer dams, reservoir walls; in-
struction as to the types of structures suitable for differ-
ent localities; economy of construction and framing;
properties of building materials, as wood, stone, cement,
brick, iron; methods of testing, methods of preparation,
preservation and cost; construction of masonry arches,
tunnels, sewers, highways, and city streets; discussion of
framed structures of different types; river and harbor im-
provements ; canals; seacost defences.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineerings—This course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts; shape, material and calcula-
tion of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation;
separate and combined systems compared; pollution of
rivers; chemical precipitation; results and cost of purifi-
cation ; general municipal and domestic sanitation; in-
spection of neighboring works.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Stereotomy—This course comprises a study of the ap-
plication of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to the
determination of the forms and sizes of the stones used in
the construction of the different classes of arches and
masonry structures. This course is given by lectures in
the Drawing Room, explaining the construction of tem-
plates, and use of directing instrument; also explanations
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
61
of methods of drawing plans, elevations, and develop-
ments of oblique arches, wing walls and the like. A certain
number of plates and drawings is required, illustrating
the methods of performing practical work.
[Tzvo hours a week for one term.}
XV.
Hydromechanics—This course is a thorough study of
the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrodynam-
ics, to which are added many practical exercises. The
subjects considered are the transmission of pressures,
centre of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction; Bernoulli’s theorem with
friction; Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over
weirs, and through tubes; flow' in pipes; loss of head in
friction and other losses; flow in conduits, canals, and
rivers; velocities in cross section; methods of gauging the
flow, measurement of water power, dynamic pressure of
flowing water; designing of waterworks and standpipes;
hydraulic motors and relative merits; discussion of water
wheels of different types, and a study of the conditions de-
termining high efficiencies; classification of turbines, and a
complete study and discussion of the different forms.
[Three hours a week for two terms.}
XVI.
Geodesy—This is an elementary course prescribed for
Civil Engineering students in the Junior Year, and com-
prises a study of the instruments and methods of observa-
tion. base measurements and field work of the triangula-
tion ; method of least squares, elementary course; calcula-
tion of the triangulation, and theory of probable errors;
geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is fol-
lowed by a brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
[Four hours a zveek for one term.}
62
UNIVERSITY OF NOTEE DAME.
COURSE IN ASTRONOMY.
Astronomy—Practical. This course is designed to meet
the requirements of Civil Engineering students and to
give them the training and information necessary for
intelligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their pro-
fessional career. The course comprises a study of astro-
nomical instruments as well as instruments of more pre-
cision than those used in ordinary surveying. The ad-
justments and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computation; problems in finding right ascension and
declination; different methods for finding latitude, longi-
tude, and time are studied in detail, and the methods of
making the observations and their adjustments, and dis-
cussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into sidereal,
and sidereal time into solar. In connection with this sub-
ject is given a more complete study of many of the topics
considered in elementary astronomy, as here they are
treated mathematically; as for example, methods for
finning parallax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and
correction for refraction. The subjects of precession,—
nutation—annual aberration—proper motion of stars,
etc., are studied.
[Three hours a zueek for one term J}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTES DAME.
63
COURSES IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Thermodynamics—The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The ap-
plications of this preliminary work are then dwelt upon
and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refrigerating
machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in detail. Fre-
quent reference is made to trade catalogues, of which an
abundant supply should be obtained by the student.
[Five hours a week for one term.']
IL
Materials of Engineering—This course, supplemented
by shopwork and laboratory work in testing materials of
construction, is designed with the purpose of acquainting
the student with the properties of the materials he will
use in his profession. Tensile and shearing strength,
elasticity and resistance are studied, together with the
effects of strain, intermittent loading and impact. The
process of manufacture of the most important materials
is taken up and estimates of the cost of construction at
the market prices complete the work. Thurston's Ma-
terials of Engineering is the text-book used.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Steam Engine Design—In this course the forms and
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
64
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines for
specific work are taken up which give the student a thor-
ough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest re-
searches and contemporary practice may be consulted in
the numerous publications found in the University Li-
brary. During the first term of the Senior Year is re-
quired the complete design with working drawings of a
simple non-condensing steam engine for a specific pur-
pose. The second term is given to designing a multiple
expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine
service. The text-book used is Whitham’s Steam Engine
Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers—This subject is treated much as that of
the steam engine. The determination of sizes of parts
from consideration of strains, thickness of shells, size of
rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of connection
of boilers with efficiency of furnace and life of boiler, are
some of the subjects considered. The method of determ-
ining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface, heights of
chimneys, boiler settings and materials used in construc-
tion are also discussed.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
Kinematics—This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining of
the parts to move in these paths. The general theory is
then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative motion of
machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys, speed
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
65
cones, link work and other aggregate combinations. Barr’s
Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book used.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Machine Design—-This work involves a study of theform
and strength of machine parts as applied in designing with
computation of dimensions for fastenings, bearings, rotating
pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc. The derivation of
rational formulae and the determination of empirical formulae
are included and applied in designing. The text-books used
are Unwin’s Elements of Machine Design, Low’s Hand
Book for Mechanical Engineers, and Reed’s Machine De-
sign and Drawing.
[Three hours a zveek for one term.]
VII.
Valve Gears—This course includes a complete study of
the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the princi-
pal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears, such as
Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are treated in the
same way and in conclusion the student is made familiar
with the various types of Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics
and link motions. The text-book is Halsey’s Falve Gears.
[Two hours a zveek for one term.]
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory—The work taken up includes a
study of the methods of testing the steam engine under vary-
ing running conditions, valve setting, calibration of ther-
mometers, gauges and indicator springs, use of Pony brake,
Weber and Emerson dynamometers, Pelton water wheel,
Wier calibration, etc. Text-book, Carpenter’s Experimental
Engineering.	-
[One afternoon each zveek for one term.]

66
UNIVERSITY GIT NOTSE DAME.
IX.
Thesis—Each candidate for a degree in this department
must present for graduation a thesis of considerable mag-
nitude which will exhibit his knowledge of the course he
has followed. It may embrace designing, experimental
investigation or original research in a subject selected by
the student and approved by the Professor. The major
part of the second term, Senior Year, is devoted to this
work and graduation is conditional upon the knowledge
of Mechanical Engineering displayed in its preparation.
[Twelve hours a week for one term.]
X.
STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
A briefer course in the study of boilers and steam
engines designed to familiarize the student with the dif-
ferent types in use and their respective merits. Only
that theory is taken up which is necessary to the working
out of practical problems, the ultimate object of the
course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
SHOPWORK.
(a)	Woodwork—Exercises in planing, sawing, splic-
ing, framing, scroll-sawing and turning.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
(b)	Applications of Carpentry to pattern-making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	67
(c)	Foundry Practice—Setting up and drawing simple
and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating and pour-
ing metals for different purposes. Core making.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(d)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(e)	Benchwork in iron, including surface-chipping,
key-setting, draw-filing, scraping and polishing. .
[Three hours a week for one year.]
(f)	Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shaping and mill-
ing machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers,
taps, twist-drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Applied Electricity—A course of lectures and recita-
tions, supplemented by laboratory practice, on the gen-
eral theory of electricity and magnetism and its applica-
tion to practical work, as follows: Setting up and testing
primary and secondary batteries, systems of call bells,
electric gas lighting appliances, fire and burglar alarms,
telegraph and telephone lines, switchboards and acces-
sories.
Experiments with induction coils, magnets, switches,
voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges, galvano-
meters and other measuring instruments. The study of
direct current generators and motors, arc and incandes-
68
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
cent lighting systems, street railway machinery and ap-
pliances, electric heating and forging, electrolytic pro-
cesses, etc.
[Five hours a zveek for tzvo terms.]
II.
Applied Electricity—Lectures and laboratory work on
the construction and testing of switches, magnets, meas-
uring instruments, induction coils, etc. The calculation
of sizes of wire and location of circuits for lighting and
power, the experimental study of alternating current
machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his shopwork he may design and build a snjall
dynamo, starting with the rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency and adaptability to
special purposes. This course must be preceded by
Course I. Both I. and II. are required in the Short
Course in Electrical Engineering; they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy.
[Five hours a zveek for tzvo terms.]
III.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery—-Recitations on the physi-
ical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions and
reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points, theory
of armature winding, the mathematical theory of alternat-
ing currents, phase relations, modern forms of single
phase and multiphase generators and motors, design of
transformers.
[Five hours a zveek for tzvo terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
69
IV.
Electrical Laboratory—Practical work at wiring build-
ings for lights and power, testing circuits for insulation
and grounds, construction and operation of storage bat-
teries, management and care of dynamos, characteristic
curves of particular machines under different conditions,
efficiency tests of motors by absorption dynamometer
methods, alternating current dynamo and transformer
tests, the testing of storage batteries, and complete plant-
efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Drawing—The designing and making of working draw-
ings of switches, resistance, and other electrical appar-
atus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits
for lighting buildings. Complete drawings of direct and
alternating current dynamos. Laying out plants for
power and lighting.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ARCHITECTURE.
I.
History of Architecture—This course comprises a
study of the early beginnings, growth and development
of Architecture. It includes a brief study of what is
known of Primitive and Prehistoric Architecture. Then
is considered more fully the Egyptian, Chaldaean
70
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
and Assyrian, Persian and Jewish, Greek and Roman
styles, their relations and influences compared. Early
Christian Architecture, Byzantine Architecture, their
origin, development, and differences specially noted. A
general account of the Mohammedan styles and charac-
teristics is given.
Gothic Architecture and the early Mediaeval Archi-
tectural styles are considered at some length. Special
attention is given to the early Renaissance, the styles
characterizing the advanced Renaissance and modern
Architecture. The distinguishing and useful features of
the different styles will be noted throughout the study
with special reference and applications to modern re-
quirements. The structural features, ornamentations,
use and. purpose of the more noted structures, material
used in the different styles, all are studied in detail, in-
structing the student in everything worthy of considera-
tion in connection with architecture and its practical
applications. The course is given by lectures and reci-
tations.
[Three hours a week for two terms.}
IL
The Orders of Architecture—This course is a study of
the Five Orders of Architecture and is given by lectures,
recitations and drawing. The study embraces a thorough
analysis of each Order in which the principal and distin-
guishing features of each are clearly shown and compar-
isons made by directing the attention to the more useful
and important parts. Also a study in detail of the forms
and proportions characterizing each is made in the class
room. Problems pertaining to the Orders are given in
the Drawing Room, and detail drawings and coloring
made.
[Two hours recitation a week for two terms; two hours
drawing a week for two terms.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
71
III.
Architectural Designing—Drawing and rendering in
pen and ink and water colors of the elements employed
in Classical and Renaissance design. The principles of
planning and composition. Monumental structures.
Problems in design involving the use of the classic orders,
the Gothic, and Renaissance style. Interior decorations.
[Ten hours a week for two terms.'}
IV.
Ventilation and Heating—This course is a study of the
theory and practice • of heating and ventilating public
buildings and dwelling houses. The different systems of
heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam, etc,—are
carefully examined and studied. The radiation of heat
from surfaces, the different systems of piping, condition
of air as to moisture, amount of air required, causes and
sources of impure air, and best means adopted to secure
pure air; the necessity for good ventilation and the latest
approved methods for securing this all important feature
are some of the topics considered in this study.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
Masonry and Iron Construction—This course is a study
of the properties of the building stones, iron and steel,
that are used in structures, including the cements, paints,
and preservatives, in use. The methods of quarrying and
testing building stones, manufacturing and testing brick
and cement, the different methods of manufacturing and
testing iron and steel, are briefly considered. Then the
subject of foundations is given a careful study, wherein
are taught methods for ascertaining the character and
bearing power of strata below the surface; methods and
72	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
materials used in building foundations; piles and their
use in foundations; enlarging or spreading the base of
the foundation; suitableness of foundations for structures
of different classes. These are some of the subjects
studied in this course given both by lecture and text-book.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Theory of the Arch—This course comprises a complete
study of the theory of the linear arch, wherein are con-
sidered the nature of the loading and resulting stresses,
and the application of the results to the loaded arch; then
is studied the design of the arch, finding the line of pres-
sures, etc. This course is given by recitation and draw-
ing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
*	VII.
Specifications—This course is for the purpose of in-
structing the student to prepare according to the best
approved methods, written specifications for structures,
and the necessary contracts in connection with the same.
It includes a study of the forms, general features, and
leading clauses, of specifications, classification of build-
ing materials, labor, duties of superintendents, the best
methods of making estimates ,and the common relations
of owners, contractors, architects and superintendents.
This course is given by lectures and recitations and prac-
tical exercises in writing contracts and specifications.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVEBSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
73
COURSES IN ARTISTIC DRAWING.
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough founda-
tion in drawing for those that wish to make Art a profession,
but the courses are so arranged as to be accessible to other
students. The system of teaching, which is that followed in
the best art schools, is intended to develop the individuality
of each student, so that with a good understanding of the
principles of art he may interpret nature according to his
own temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, object, and nature.
The immediate surroundings of the University buildings, the
lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer many beautiful sub-
jects for the study of landscapes, and the classes are taken
out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new one,
which was carefully selected at the National School of Fine
Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded directly from
the originals. The collection is as follows:
Full Figure—The Diadumenos (British Museum) ; the
Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically: The
Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michelange-
lo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre), and
Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads—Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol) ; Cato (Rome, the Vatican) ; Cicero (Rome,
the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa (Lou-
vre) ; Venus (Vatican) ; A Centurion (Naples). Ariadne
(the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples); a Vestal
(Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters of
Niobe (Florence).
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides, there is a complete set of decorative and archi-
tectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity,
the middle ages and the Renaissance, and of elements of
the human figure (hands, feet, etc.) from the antique, and
some anatomical pieces.
COURSE I.
Elementary Class.
(a)	Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geometri-
cal, such as moldings, ovoloes, dentels, etc. Sketching
from simple objects.
(b)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from natural leaves and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as pedes-
tals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on perspective,
direction of the principal lines in relation to the horizon.
Elementary notions on the five orders of architecture.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure: hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching from
familiar objects.
COURSE IL
Antique Class.
(a)	Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape. Appli-
cations of perspective.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching from
the costumed model. Still life in water colors. History
of art.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	7&
COURSE III.
Life Class.
Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy. Anatomical
studies from the collections of Science Hall. Still life
painting in water colors and oil. Landscape painting.
Drawing for illustration. .
Sketch Class—One hour a week. This class is open also
to the students in the Mechanical Drawing classes. The
students have themselves an organization, “The Crayon
Club/' the object of which is to sketch College scenes and
to do illustrative work: these sketches are brought into
class and criticised.
Class of Decorative Design—The object of this depart-
ment is to prepare students for professional work in deco-
rative designings of all kinds. They will take up the study
of historical ornaments and will be taught the general
principles of the arrangement of design, and from per-
sonal sketches of plants and flowers will be shown the art
of making original designs for wall paper, book covers,
stained glass, carpets, interior decorations, metal plates,
etc. No particular programme is given out as the teach-
ing is purely individual.
COURSES IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may be
trained in Outline Drawing in pencil and pen. Then fol-
lows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough knowl-
edge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the use of
76
UNIVERSITY Off NOTRE DAME.
instruments is taken up. A large drawing hall for advanced
students in the engineering courses is on the second floor
of the Engineering building. Beginning with the instru-
ments, attention is given to accurate draughtmanship upon
plates, illustrating problems in Civil, Electrical and Me-
chanical Engineering. This work is continued throughout
the Courses.
I.
Freehand—The work consists of sketching with pencil
and pen from flat copies and models of machine parts and
freehand lettering. Later in the term, the use of instru-
ments, section-lining and lettering are taught. Text-book,
Thorne’s Junior Course of Mechanical Drawing.
[Two hours a week for one term.}
II.
Projection Drawing—The work embraces the principles
of projections, methods of shop-drawing, tinting, tracing,
blue printing, line-shading and the preparation of working
drawings of complete machines. Text-books, Thome’s
Intermediate Mechanical Drawing, and Low and Bevis’
Manual of Machine Drawing and Design. This Course
must be preceded by Course I.
. [Two hours a week for two terms.}
III.
Descriptive Geometry—A series of accurate plates are
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective and
isometric projections. Text-book, Hal.
[One hour a week for hr st term, and two hours a week for
second term.}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV.
Kinematic Drawing—Designing of cams and gear teeth,
complete working drawings of machines involving the ap-
plication of kinematics and the computation of dimensions.
Reference-book, Low and Bevis’ Manual of Machine Draw-
ing and Design.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography—Pen and colored topographical drawing,
conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken from
surveys. This Course must be preceded by Course I.
[Four hourse a week for one term.]
VI.
Masonry—Drawing and designing plans, elevations and
sections of masonry constructions, foundations, dams,
piers, abutments, culverts and arches.
[Four hourse a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing—Proceeding from simple framed
girders to complete bridge-trusses of various designs.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Freehand—The principles of freehand drawing in pencil
and pen from objects, and later from biological specimens,
.plants, animals and microscopical preparations.
[Two hours a zveek for two terms.]
IX.
Freehand—Advanced drawing from plants and anatom-
ical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publications.
[Two hours a zveek for two terms.]
78
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.

(In the description of these courses, an “hour” means
two sixty-minute periods in the laboratory or one in the
lecture room.)
(a)	General Chemistry—A minor Course dealing with
the general principles of the science and embracing a study
of only the commoner elements and their typical com-
pounds. Text-book, Remsen’s Elements of Chemistry.
[Four hours a week for one term.}
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the laboratory the
work of the Lecture Course (la) and designed to accom-
pany it.
[One hour a week for one term.}
IL
(a)	General Descriptive Chemistry—Recitations and
experimental lectures treating of the fundamental principles
of chemistry, and designed to meet the requirements of
the students of the Engineering Course. Text-book,
Remsen’s Brief er Course.
[Three hours a week for two terms.}
(b)	A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the needs of
Engineering students.
[Two hours a week for tzvo terms.}
III.
(a)	Advanced Inorganic Chemistry—For Biological and
General Science students. Lectures and recitations. A com-
plete study of the elements and their most important com-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
79
pounds, following the classification based on MendeleefPs
Law, and including a thorough discussion of the theories
of the science. Careful attention is given to the technical
chemical processes and industries, and to the writing of
chemical reactions. Text-book, Newth}s Inorganic Chem-
istry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.}
(b)	Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course (Illa) the work consisting of the pre-
paration by the student, of the elements and their more
typical compounds, determination of molecular weights,
verification of the fundamental laws of chemistry, etc.
During the latter part of the Course, special attention is
given to the characteristic reactions of the metals and to
the principles of chemical analysis. Text-book, Thorp.
[Two hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.}
IV.
Qualitative Analysis—The work of this Course com-
prises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions involved
in the separation and detection of the mort common inor-
ganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of salts,
and complex substances such as earths, ores, ashes, etc.
Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by lectures.
[Five hours a week, with recitation, for one term.}
V.
Quantitative Analysis—A laboratory study of the prin-
ciples involved in the quantitative separation and estima-
tion of substances, both gravimetrically and volumetrically.
Complete analysis of a number of simple salts like Barium
Chloride, with partial analysis of substances such as steel,
lye, driking-water, etc. Reference-book, Fresenius.
[Five hours a week, with recitation, for one term.}
80	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VI.
(a)	Organic Chemistry—Lectures and recitations. A
systematic study of the compounds of Carbon by the student
and the investigation of their properties. This Course may
be taken without the accompanying Laboratory work. Text-
book, Remsen.
[Five hours for one term.]
(b)	Experimental Organic Chemistry—A Course fitted
to accompany Course (Via), involving the preparation by
the student in the laboratory of the more important and
typical organic compounds and the investigation of their
properties. Ultimate organic anyalsis. Text-book, Gatter-
mann.
[Five hours for one term.]
VII.
Urinary Anaylsisand Toxicology—A Course of Labora-
tory exercises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of the urine, and of the alka-
loids and principal organic poisons. Text-book, Schimpf.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis—An advanced course,
intended for students of General Science, specializing in
chemistry. Special courses in gas analysis, water analysis,
sugar analysis, commercial organic analysis, etc., at the
option of the student.
[Five to -fifteen hours a week for both terms.]
IX.
Organic Chemistry—Chiefly laboratory work. An ad-
vanced course, intended for General Science students
specializing in chemistry.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for both terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
81
X.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry—In this course, the
chemical bases and their compounds are considered, with
special reference to their importance in Pharmacy and
Materia Medica. Text-book, Sadtlers’ and Trimbles Phar-
maceutical Chemistry.
[Five hours a week for hr st term.]
COURSES IN PHYSICS.
I.
Physics—A complete course of recitations and lectures,
including mechanics, heat, sound, light, electricity, and
magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experiments.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
General Physics—In this course there is a more ex-
tended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to physical
phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy in the
mathematical work and in the statements of the principles
involved. Lectures and recitations.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physical Problems—The application of mathematics in
physical work. Measurements of length, mass and time.
Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and
magnetism. The work is done in the laboratory and the
student is taught to depend on his own resources and to
check his results.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
82
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV.
Physical Laboratory—Special advanced work in heat,
light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism. Ac-
curacy in observations and in the calculation and record-
ing of results is required. Students may specialize here
according to the college course which they are following.
This course must be preceded by Courses II. and III. For
list of apparatus see page 14.
[Three hours a week for two terms.}
COURSES IN BOTANY.
I.
Botany—Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed. The develop-
ment of the embryo and the processes of pollination and
fertilization. The study of the vegetable cell, of its pro-
ducts, of cell formation, of plant tissues, and the various
physiological phenomena. The structure and reproduction
of the Algae, Fungi, Mosses and Ferns. The analysis of
Phanerogams occupies the time during the spring months,
and the student is made familiar with the local flora. Text-
books, Bastin’s College Botany and Gray’s Manual.
[Five hours a week for two terms.}
II.
Botanical Laboratory—Supplementary to Course L
Special work on the Thallophyta and Bryophyta. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the stu-
dent that he may become more'familiar with their mor-
phology, structure, etc. This course is to accompany or
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
83
be preceeded by Course I. Provision is also made in this
course for Pharmacy students to take a special laboratory
course in Pharmaceutical Botany.
[One hour a week for one term.]
III.
Botany—Lectures, recitations and laboratory work.
The work in this course is essentially the same as that
laid out in Strasburger’s text-book of Botany. Special
work is required in one particular group of plants. Her-
barium study is encouraged as well as the collecting and
preparing of plants for preservation. During the spring
months frequent excursions are made into the neighbor-
ing fields and woods and the local aquatic and land flora
are collected and studied.
[Four recitation and two laboratory hours a week for two
terms.]
COURSES IN ZOOLOGY.
I.
Zoology—Lectures and recitations. General ideas on
the animal kingdom. Animals and plants defined. The
homology and analogy between the organs and parts of
animals. The morphology, classification, structure, develop-
ment and relationship of the types of vertebrates and
invertebrates. Text-book, Nicholson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
'Invertebrate Zoology—Lectures,recitations,and labora-
tory work. In this course there is an extended treatment
84
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of Invertebrates. Dissection of the different types of higher
forms. Careful notes and drawings are made from these
dissections. Opportunity is given to carry on systematic
work on the different groups contained in the University
Museum. Text-book, Thompson.
[Three recitation and two laboratory hours a week for one
term.]
III.
Vertebrate Zoology—Lectures, recitations and labor-
atory work. This course consists of a thorough study of
the morphology, structure and classification of the verte-
brated animals. A type from each group of the vertebrates
is selected for dissection and comparative study. In the
latter part of this course the student is required to make a
special study of Mammalian Osteology from prepared skele-
tons in the University Museum. Text-books, Thompson,
and Parker & Haswell.
[Three recitation and two laboratory hours a week for one
term. ]
IV.
Mammalian Anatomy—This course has been specially
provided for students preparing themselves for a medical
course. The work consists of demonstrations and thor-
ough dissections on the anatomy of the cat or some se-
lected Mammal.
[Two laboratory hours a week for six weeks.]
V.
Comparative Embryology—Lectures and laboratory
work. A study of the developmental history of inverte-
brates, including a comparison of the germ-cell and
sperm-cell in different types of animals. The maturation
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
85
and fertilization of the ovum. Mitosis and segmentation.
The development of the Ectoderm, Mesoderm, and En-
doderm compared in the types of invertebrates, differen-
tiation of tissues, development of the embryo, etc. Special
work on the embryology of a vertebrate—Fish, Bird or
Mammal.
[Three hours a week for one term.}
COURSES IN GENERAL BIOLOGY.
I.
Cytology—Lectures and laboratory work. History of
the cell, cell structure, organization, activity, and mitosis.
II.
General Biology—Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work. The forms of animals and plants compared as to
structure, function, and relationship of parts. Animal and
plant dissection. Biogenesis and Abiogenesis, Homogenesis
and Heterogenesis. The alternation of generation in dif-
ferent forms of animals and plants worked out. The theories
of evolution are discussed in this course. Text-book, Parker.
[Courses I and II together, three laboratory hours a week
. for two terms.]
86
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN MICROSCOPY,
I.
Microscopy—Lectures and laboratory work. Refraction
and dispersion of light and illumination. The index of
refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for
advanced work; immersion and adjustable objectives,
camera lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers,
etc. Special work in photo-micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Three hours a zueek for one term.]
II.
Micro-Chemistry—Laboratory work. The preparation
of micro-chemical reagents and their application in test-
ing, fixing, hardening, staining, clearing, and mounting
tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
COURSES IN HUMAN ANATOMY,
&
i.
Human Histology—Laboratory work and demonstra-
tions. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I under courses in Human Physiology.
II.
Human Histology—Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work. The work covers a thorough course in Normal
Histology with the methods of hardening, staining, em-
bedding, section cutting and mounting of tissues. Careful
work on the nervous system—brain and spinal cord, termi-
nation of nerve fibres, etc. Drawings made from each
preparation. Text-book, Piersol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
III.
Human Anatomy—Lectures and recitations. Osteology
and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular, vascular and
nervous system and of the organs of special sense. The
anatomy of the viscera. Text-book, Gray.
[Three hours a week for four terms.]
88
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY.
I.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and laboratory work.
The study of the human skeleton including the physiology
and hygiene of the bones. The action, relation, structure
and hygiene of the muscular, digestive, circulatory and ex-
cretory systems. The anatomy and structure of the nervous
system. All the work is supplemented by experiments and
miscroscopic examinations made by the student. The dem-
onstrations are facilitated by the use of models, charts and
manakins. Material for dissection is introduced into the
work in order to give a more correct and fixed understand-
ing of the study. This course is to be accompanied by Course
I under courses in Human Anatomy. Text-book, Thornton’s
Physiology.
[Three laboratory hours a zveek for one term.]
n.
Hygiene—Lectures on personal, domestic and munici-
pal hygiene.
[One hour a zveek for one term.]
III.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and experimental
work. A more advanced course than Course I. on alimen-
tation, deglutition, stomach and intestinal digestion,
action of bile and pancreatic juice, absorption, properties
of lymph and chyle, secretion, excretion, animal heat and
its sources. The physiological divisions and structure of
the nervous system. Motor and sensory nerves. Physio-
logical anatomy of the spinal cord. General arrangement
and function of the sympathetic system, etc.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
S9
£5
COURSE IN BACTERIOLOGY.
Lectures and Laboratory Work—Lectures on the form,
structure, reproduction and classification of Bacteria. The
relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The principles of steril-
ization, thermal and chemical are pointed out. The early
part of the laboratory work is occupied in the preparation
of the various culture-media and in studying pure cultures of
certain non-pathogenic bacteria in these media. Observations
on the microscopic characteristics of bacteria and special at-
tention to the microscopic technique required in Bacteriolog-
ical work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic bacteria.
Emphasis is given to the detection of pathogenic germs by
the various staining processes. Inoculation of animals.
Bacteriogical investigation of water, air and soil. Text-book,
Abbott’s Principles of Bacteriology.
[Three laboratory hours a week for one term.]
90
UNIVEBSITY OF NOTRE MME.
COURSES IN GEOLOGY.
i.
Mineralogy—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification of
minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory and
museum in the determination of minerals, especially the
ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Moses & Parsons.
[Two hours a week for one term.}
II.
Assaying—Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assaying
of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
III.
Geology—Lectures and recitations. The study of the
general features of the earth. The material composing the
accessible parts of the earth. The arrangement of the ma-
terial in rocks. The causes of geological changes. The
history of the earth and the various forms of life that
existed in the different periods of successive geological
ages. Text-book, Dana.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA SIE.
91
COURSES IN PHARMACY,
I.
Elements of Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations on the
art and science of Pharmacy, and demonstrations of the
various Pharmaceutical processes. Text-book, Remington’s
Practice of Pharmacy.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
fc
Galenical Pharmacy—A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the manu-
facture of official preparations of the United States Phar-
macopoeia, and of unofficial and N. F. preparations.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy—Laboratory, demonstrations and
recitations. A thorough course in the preparation and
testing of Pharmaceutical and Technical Chemicals.
[Sir hours a week for one term.]
IV.
General Pharmacy—A systematic classification of or-
ganic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a phar--
maceutical standpoint followed by a close study of each
of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAVIE.
62
V.
Magistral Pharmacy—Includes the manifold methods
of extemporaneous Pharmacy with consideration of in-
compatibility, posology, and the principles of Elegant
Pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a- week for one term.']
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry—Chiefly assaying, testing
and manufacturing. Some attention is given, however,
to toilet and commercial preparations with a view to the
invention and development of original formulas.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
General Pharmacy—Pharmaceutical analysis and as-
saying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectroscopic
estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of manu-
facture.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Materia Medica, Pharmacognosy, and Therapeutics—
i. Materia Medica—A detailed consideration of medi-
cinal substances, their constituents and use.
II.	Pharmacognosy—The identification of drugs by
their physical properties with special reference to quality.
III.	Therapeutics—With reference to Therapeutic
action, dose, and antidote, drugs will be studied in groups
as well as individually.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
COURSES IN MUSIC.
FIRST YEAR
I.
Violin—Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte—Koehler’s and Damm’c Piano School. Studies
by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas and easy
sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke and Mozart. Jugend
album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
III.
Voice - Production — Tone - placing. Diaphragmatic
breath-control. Articulation. Text-books: Shakespeare's
Art of Singing. Part A.; Kofler’s Art of Breathing, Studies
by Bassini; English Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading—Elementary theory of Music.
Intervals, and Ear-Training. ' Choir Practice.
IV.
Organ—Rink’s Organ School. Eugene Thayer’s Studies,
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR.
la.
Violin—Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont, Sonatas
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven and Mozart.
94	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ila.
Pianoforte—Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert, Le-
couppy, Cramer and Krause, Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s Preludes, Fuges and Inventions. Sonatas and
Pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann and Schubert.
Illa.
Voice-Production—Advanced Breathing Exercises.
Study of the Chest and Falsetto registers. Stroke of the
Glottis. Text-Books: Shakespeare’s Art of Singing Parts
IL and III.; Studies from Italian Operas; French and
English Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading—Phrasing, punctuation and ad-
vanced study. Practice in Operatic Chorus-work.
IVa.
Organ—Schneider-Warren’s Pedal Studies. Easy sonatas
by Mendelssohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes and
Fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.
Harmony—Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
ization of melodies. Harmonizing from figured bass. Text-
books, Goetschius’ Tone Relations, Logier’s Harmony.
THIRD YEAR.
*»
lb.
Violin—Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-Alard,
Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr, Vieux-
temps, Mendelssohn, Dvorak.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	95
lib.
Pianoforte—Gradus ad Parnassum, Clementi-Tausig.
Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and French
Suites by Bach. Etudes by Haberbier and Henselt.
Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven, Weber, Men-
delssohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
nib.
Voice-Production—Study of the Trill, Mordent, Grup-
petto, etc. Messa di Voce.
IVb.
Organ—Sonatas, Preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by Bach.
Concert Pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome, Whiting, Best,
Rheinberger.
Va.
Harmony—(Counterpoint,) Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon.
Fugue.
FOURTH YEAR.
Ic.
Violin—Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces by
Beethoven, Brahms, Bruch, Joachim and others.
He.
Pianoforte—Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos, and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
Ilic.
Organ—The greater Preludes, Fantasies and Fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Guilment and Saint-Saens.
96
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IVb.
Harmony—(Composition.) Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the Sonata, Rondo, etc. Practical application
in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
Instruction is also given on the Viola, Flute, Piccolo,
Cornet, Trombone, Guitar and Mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of playing
in the University Orchestra and Band.
THE SINGING CLASS.
There is an organization of musical students open to those
only taking lessons in vocal music; the choir is selected from
the members of this class.
Requirements for the Degree of Bachelor of Music*
i.	The candidate must have studied music in the Uni-
versity during the last year of his course.
2.	He must have a thorough theoretic knowledge of four
instruments mentioned in the courses described above, and
a practical mastery of one of them.
3.	He must pass a written examination in Harmony,
Counterpoint and Composition.
4.	He must submit to the examiner two original compo-
sitions: (a) a fugue for full orchestra, or for four voices
with independent orchestral accompaniment; (b) a composi-
tion in the free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a
trio (pianoforte, violin and violincello).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
97
EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY.
All Catholic Students are obliged to attend the Courses
in Evidences of Christianity.
The text-book used in the Senior year is Spalding’s
Church History—Lectures on Apologetics.
In the Junior year Hand-Book of the Christian Religion,
by Wilmers, is used.
A two-years’ course in Exposition of Christian Doctrine
(Moral) precedes the Junior course.
In the Preparatory School Bible History and Advanced-
Catechism ((FBrien), are used.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGIATE COURSES.
.x
Examinations in all the subjects, required for admission
to the University are held at Notre Dame in September, at
the beginning of the Fall term.
Certificates of work done in public or private schools will
not be accepted instead of examinations, unless the appli-
cant has passed the final examination after a full course in
his school, and the University Faculty are satisfied with the
standing of the school.
Graduate students of High Schools that are fully accred-
ited to the State Universities, will be admitted without exam-
ination to the Freshman year of any course to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
98
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Applicants for advanced standing that present certificates
from other colleges or universities may be received at the
discretion of the Faculty with or without examination as
regards particular cases.
No student will be received as a candidate for the degree
of Bachelor after the beginning of the Senior year unless he
passes an examination in the Metaphysics and Ethics already
studied by the Senior class of the University.
No student will be admitted to any course of the Senior
year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic Students that are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences
of Religion.
CONDITIONAL ADMISSION TO FRESHMAN
CLASSES.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations in
one or more of the subjects required for admission to any
Collegiate Course may, at the discretion of the Faculty, be
admitted to his class conditionally, to make up his deficiency
by extra study within one school year. Only when the con-
ditions are removed will the student be admitted to full
standing in his class.
ADMISSION TO ADVANCED STANDING.
Candidates for admission to advanced classes in any
courses are required to pass, in addition to the usual entrance
examinations, an examination in the work already done by
the classes they desire to enter. The additional subjects
may be found in the programme of courses.
I. School of Arts and Letters*
IL School of Science*
III* School of Engineering*
IV* School of Law*
100
tJNIVERSlTT OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF ARTS AND LETTERS.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
English—Part of the examination time is given for an-
swering questions upon books required to be read in the pre-
paratory course in English (See page 166); the re-
* mainder for writing an essay.
Latin—Grammar, complete; Caesar: four books of the
Gallic War; Cicero: four orations against Catiline;
Vergil: Aeneid six books; translation at sight of passages
from Cicero and Caesar; translation of English into Latin
based on the text of the author.
Greek—(For Classical Students only) Grammar, Ety-
mology, and general rules of Syntax: Xenophon: Anaba-
sis, four books; Homer, at least three books; prose com-
position based on text.
History—A general knowledge of the outlines of Greek
and Roman History and of Mediaeval and Modern His-
tory, as set out in the texts used in the high schools and
academies of the country.
Astronomy—Descriptive.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
101
Zoology—Elementary.
Physiology— Martin’s Human Body, or an equivalent.
Botany—Elementary.
Chemistry—Elements of inorganic chemistry, as given
in high schools of good standing.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Car-
hart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is recom-
mended, but is not required.
French and German—A three years’ study of either
German or French and one year of French or German is
required for entrance to the course in English and the
course in History and Economics. Students that begin
French in the second preparatory year will take up German
in the fourth preparatory year and continue it for two years
in the college course. A like regulation holds for those that
start German in the second preparatory. Classical students
present a year of French or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation of
ordinary German or French prose: an ability to translate,
rather than accurate grammatical knowledge is expected.
102
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed in the Classical Course.
(degree: a. b.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: ' Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin, -	-	5	39	I.	Latin, - - -	5	39	II.
Greek, - - ■	4	35	I.	Greek, - - -	4	35	II.
English, - -	4	42	I.	English, - -	4	42	I.
History, - -	4	46	I.	History, - -	4	46	I.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	39	III.	Lcbtiiij -	-	_ Greek, - - -	5	39	IV.
Greek, - - -	4	35	III.		4	35	IV.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
History, - -	3	46	II.	History, - -	3	46	II.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	vin.
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Philosophy, -	5	31	I.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	40	V.	Latin, - - -	5	40	VI.
Greek, - - -	5	36	V.	Greek, - - -	5	36	VI.
English, - -	4	43	III.	English, - -	4	43	III.
Philosophy, -	5	31	II.	Philosophy, -	5	31	II.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
Economics, -	4	48	I.	Elective, - -	5		
SENIOR YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	40	VII.	Latin, - - -	5	41	VIII.
Greek, - - -	5	37	VII.	Greek, - - -	5	88	VIII.
English, - -	4	43	IV.	English. - -	4	43	IV.
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
103
Studies Prescribed in the English Course*
(degree: LITT. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	’Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English, - -	6	42	I.	English, - -	6	42	I.
Latin, - - -	5	39	I.	Latin, - - -	5	39	II.
French or - -	3	50	II.	French or - -	3	50	II.
German - -	3	52	II.	German, - -	3	52	II.
History, - -	4	46	I.	History, - -	4	46	I.
Elocution, - -	2	45	vin.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
Latin, - - -	5	39	III.	Latin, - - -	5	39	iv.-
French or - -	2	50	HI.	French or - -	2	50	in.
German, - -	2	52	HI.	German, - -	2	52	HI.
History, - -	3	46	II.	History, - -	3	46	II.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Philosophy, -	5	29	I.
JUNIOR YEAR.
English, - -	4	43	III.	English, - -	4	43	HI.
Latin. - - -	5	40	V.	Latin, - - -	5	40	VI.
Philosophy, -	5	31	II.	Philosophy, -	5	31	II.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
History, - -	5	47	III.	History, - -	5	47	III.
Elective, - -	3			Elective, - -	3		
SENIOR YEAR.
English, - -	4	43	IV.	English, - -	4	43	IV.
Latin, - - -	5	40	VII.	Latin, - - -	5	41	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
Economics, -	4	48	I.	History, - -	5	47	IV. b.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
104
UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
Course in History and Economics.
(degree: ph. b.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History, - -	6	46	I.	History, - -	6	46	I.
English, - -	4	42	I.	English, - -	4	42	I.
French or - -	3	50	II.	French or - -	3	50	II.
German, - -	3	52	II.	German, - -	3	52	II.
Spanish, - -	4	51	I.	Spanish, - -	4	51	I.
Polit’l Science,	4	48	I.	History, - -	4	47	IV. a
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
History, - -	5	46	II. a	History, - -	5	46	II. a
Polit’l Science,	3	48	II.	Polit’l Science,	3	48	II.
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Philosophy, -	5	31	I.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
German or - -	2	52	III.	German or - -	2	52	III.
French, - -	2	50	III.	French, - - -	2	50	II.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.
History, - -	9	46	Il.blll.	History, - -	9	46	Il.blll.
Polit’l Science,	4	48	III.	Polit’l Science,	4	48	IV.
Philosophy, -	5	31	II.	Philosophy, -	5	31	II.
English, - • -	4	43	III.	English, - -	4	43	III.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
SENIOR YEAR.
History, - -	3	47	IV. b	History, - -	3	47	IV. b
Polit’l Science,	6	48	V. VI. vn.	Polit’l Science,	6	49	VI. VII. VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
English, - -	4	43	IV.	English, - -	4	43	IV.
Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	45	VIII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
105
COURSE IN JOURNALISM.
This is strictly a post-graduate course and is open only
to those who have completed the Course in History and
Economics described on page 104. The purely academic
training afforded by that Course is here supplemented by
a year’s practical experience in newspaper work under the
immediate supervision of an experienced journalist.
Abundant opportunity for practice is offered by the news-
papers of Chicago (all of which have regular correspon-
dents at the University) and of other large cities. In ad-
dition to the routine work of this Course, each student is
expected to contribute to special departments in newspa-
pers and magazines, and diplomas will not be issued to
those who have failed to find a market for at least some
of their work. The classes in this Course are:
Journalism—Lectures and recitations on the history of
journalism. Critical comparative study of home and foreign
newspapers. The law of newspaper libel. Copyright and
postal regulations. Daily exercises in reporting, and frequent
exercises in editorial writing; department work; musical and
dramatic criticism and book reviews. Editing copy, proof-
reading and “making-up” a newspaper. Lectures on topics
of current interest, and exercises in the treatment of them.
Required readings in Dana’s Art of Nezus pap er Making,
Shuman’s Steps into J ournalism, Hudson’s History of Jour-
nalism, Luse’s Writing for the Press, any good treatise on
the law, libel and slander, and the biographies of famous
journalists. Discussion of the business side of newspaper
work, advertising, circulation, etc.
Theology—Wilhelm and Scannell’s Manual of Dogmatic
Theology.
Phonography and Typewriting—Ordinary Course.
Political History of the 19th Century.
106
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF SCIENCE.
Two courses are given, one a course in General Science,
the other a, course in Biology.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION.
$
Candidates for the Freshman class of either of these
courses must be prepared to pass an examination in the
branches below, unless satisfactory assurance of their
proficiency is given.
Physical Geography, Elementary Zoology, Botany,
and Civics.
History—General outlines of Ancient, Mediaeval and
Modern History.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy—Descriptive.
Chemistry—A course of at least fifty experiments in
elementary chemistry actually performed by the pupil.
German—A two years course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English,
and easy English sentences into German.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	107
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to’ be read in
the preparatory courses in English (See page 166); the
remainder for writing an essay.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.
Latin—Grammar, complete; Caesar: four books of the
Gallic War; Translation of English into Latin based on
the text of this author.
CHEMICAL LABORATORY FEES.
Chemistry, I., VIL, each......................$	5.00
Chemistry II, III, (e) IV., V., VI., (9) VIII.,
IX., each.................................... 10.00
108
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in General Science.
The Course in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit him-
self, either for further study of a technical or professional
kind, or for the activities of business life. The Natural
and Physical Sciences constitute the primary studies of
this Course. Grouped about these are those studies in
English, Mathematics, and the Modern Languages, which
experience has shown to be necessary for the intelligent
pursuit of science and for the attainment of the object of
the Course.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student during the Sophomore Year and two during the
Junior Year.
The scientific work of the Senior Year is elective.
Advanced, courses may be chosen in Physics, Chemistry,
Biology, or Mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Course of General
Science is required to submit, at least six weeks before
the final examinations, a written thesis upon some subject
connected with the elective work of the Senior Year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the professor
in the course elected. The thesis shall contain not less
than six thousand words, and must be satisfactory in
matter and treatment.
Students that complete the required courses, pass the
final examinations, and present .a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an “hour” means two sixty minute periods
of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
(The facilities for instruction in this Course are described on pages
13 and 17. For Laboratory Fees, see pages 107-110-116.)
&
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAVE.
109
Studies Prescribed in the Course in General Science
(degree: b. s.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology, - -	5	83	I.	Chemistry, -	4	78	in.
Chemistry, -	4	78	III.	Anal. Geom. -	5	53	n.
Algebra, - -	5	53	I.	French, - -	5	50	i.
French, - -	5	50	I.	Drawing, - -	4	76	n.
Drawing, - -	2	76	I.	Physiology, -	5	88	i.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany, - - -	5	82	1.	Botany, - - -	6	82	I., II.
Chemistry, -	5	79	IV.	Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.
Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.	Calculus. - -	5	54	IV.
Calculus, - -	5	53	III.	Drawing, - -	2	76	IL
Drawing, - -	2	76	II.	Elective, - -	5		
JUNIOR YEAR.
Geology, - -	2	90	I.	Geology, - -	5	90	III.
Astronomy, -	3	62	I.	Astronomy, -	3	62	I.
English, - -	5	42	I.	English, - -	5	42	I.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Philosophy, -	5	31	I.
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy, - Three Electives in Science, - French or Ger. Scientific Readings, -	5 9-15 1	31	II.	Philosophy, - Three Elective in Science, - French or Ger. Scientific Readings, -	5 9-15 1	31	n.
110
UNIVEBSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Biology*
&
The Course in Biology has been designed for students that
wish to devote their time largely to biological pursuits, either
as an immediate preparation for the study of medicine or
veterinary science, or with a view to teaching or otherwise
engaging in biological research. The students in this course
are required to prepare an essay during the first term of the
Junior Year on some subject pertaining to biology. Every
candidate for a degree must submit a written thesis accom-
panied with original drawings. This thesis must be pre-
sented two weeks before the final examinations. Students
not preparing themselves for a medical course may substi-
tute for the advanced Courses in Anatomy and Physiology
equivalents from either Mathematics, Physics, or English
Literature.
LABORATORY FEES.
Biological Laboratory—Biology II................$	5.00
Biological Laboratory—Zoology III., IV., V...... 5.00
Botanical Laboratory—for Botany I. and II....... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I. and II................ 2.50
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology............ 10.00
Use of Apparatus in Mineralogical Laboratory.... 5.00
Use of Apparatus in Biological Laboratory for Courses
in Zoology and Botany in Preparatory Department
each ......................................... 2.50
(The facilities for instruction in this course are described on
page 17.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ill
Studies Prescribed in the Course in Biology*
(degree: b. s.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology, - -	5	83	I.	Physiology, -	6	88	I.
Chemistry - -	4	78	III.	Chemistry, -	4	78	III.
Microscopy, -	3	86	I.	English, - -	5	42	I.
English, - -	5	42	I.	French, - -	5	50	I.
French, - -	5	50	I.	Microscopy, -	2	86	n.
Drawing, - -	2	77	VIII.	Drawing, - -	2	77	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR,
Botany, - - -	5	82	I.	Botany, - - -	6	82	I., IL
Gen. Biology,	6	85	i.,n.	Gen. Biology,	6	85	I., IL
Chemistry, -	5	79	IV.	Chemistry, -	5	75	V.
Drawing, - -	2	77	IX.	Drawing, - -	2	77	IX.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anatomy, - -	3	87	III.	Anatomy - -	3	87	III.
Bacteriology, -	6	89	I.	Botany, - - -	8	83	in.
Geology, - -	2	90	I.	Geology, - -	5	90	in.
Botany, - - -	8	83	III.	Philosophy, -	5	31	i.
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Chemistry, -	5	80	VI.
SENIOR YEAR.
Anatomy. - -	7	87	II. III.	Anatomy, - -	3	87	III.
Physiology, -	3	88	II. III.	Physiology, -	2	88	III.
Zoology, - -	7	83	II.	Zoology, - -	10	84	III.,
							IV.,V
Thesis, - - -				Thesis, - - -			
112
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
There are two courses in Pharmacy; one of two years,
leading to the degree, Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph. G.) ; and
another of three years, leading to the degree, Pharmaceutical
Chemist (Ph. C.)
ADMISSION.
Applicants for admission to the Short Course must be
18 years of age; and must pass an examination in the
Common English branches. A certificate of admission to
a high school will be accepted instead of an examination.
The requirements for the long course are the same
except that an examination in Latin and Algebra as far
as logarithms must be passed. Satisfactory evidence of
having spent two years in a high school of the best grade
will be accepted instead of an examination.
METHODS.
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated processes.
Special attention is given to the little details, which are
essential to success in any professional work and par-
ticularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully drilled
in store etiquette, business hints, prescription work, and
dispensing. Neatness and order in all the operations and
extreme care in the manufacture of preparations are re-
quired throughout the course.
Attention is given to Animal Extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkoloidal Medi-
cation,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
113
EQUIPMENT.
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same ex-
perience that he would get in actual business.
A second year student is placed in sole charge. He
is required to furnish supplies for the department, order
material, write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then
at the end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store constitute a very
important part of the equipment. Under supervision of
the instructor each student is required to read them and
to compound those requiring special manipulation. The
reading room is supplied with all the leading pharma-
ceutical journals and books of reference. The Pharma-
cognosy Room contains specimens of all the official and
a great many unofficial drugs for study and identification.
THESIS. .
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a sub-
ject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of this
work are carefully recorded and must be typewritten and
presented to the faculty as a requirement for graduation.
LABORATORY FEES.
In addition to the regular tuition fee covering cost of
board, room, etc., the student is required to pay:
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II.........-......$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II. and IV.........20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI. and VII........40.00
114
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN PHARMACY.
(DEGREES: Ph. G., Ph. C.)
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	. SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy, -	3	91	I.	Pharmacy, -	6	91	I., IL
Physics, - -	5	167	F	Chemistry, -	4	81	X.
Botany, - - -	5	82	I.	Botany. - - -	5	82	I.
Microscopy, -	3	86	I.	Materia Medica	2	92	VIII (I)
Chemistry,	5	78	I.	Pharmacognosy	2	92	VIII (2)
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy, -	8	91	III; IV	Pharmacy, -	10	92	IV.. V.,
Chemistry, -	5	79	IV.				VI.
Materia Medica	3	92	VIII.	Chemistry, -	5	79	V.
			(i, 3-)	Materia Medica	2	92	VIII.,
Bacteriology, -	3	89	I.	Physiology, -	5	88	(2, 3-) I.
THIRD YEAR.
Pharmacy, -	5	92	VI.	Pharmacy, -	5	92	VII,
Chemistry, -	6	80	VI.	Chemistry, -	5	80	VI*
Geology, - - Thesis, - - - Elective, - -	2 2 5	90	I.	Toxicology and Urinary Analy’s Thesis, - - - Elective, - -	5 2 5	80	VII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
115
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING.
Three regular courses are offered: one leading to the
degree of Civil Engineer, one to the degree of Mechanical
Engineer, and another to the degree of Mechanical En-
gineer in Electrical Engineering.
A special Short Course in Electrical Engineering is
offered to accommodate those that wish to fit themselves
for practical work in the shortest possible time.
A student should not take up any one of these .courses
unless he has a natural aptitude for mathematics. A liking
for machinery and tools is of great advantage in Mechan-
ical or Electrical Engineering.
Special attention is given to the practical work of En-
gineering in the laboratories and draughting rooms. The
exercises in calculating, designing and constructing are
made to conform as nearly as possible to the best modern
engineering practice.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work.
(For a list of available apparatus, see pages 13-19.)
In the schedule of studies one hour credit is given for
each recitation or lecture which requires from one to two
hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in laboratory
work or drawing are required for each hour on the sched-
ule.
116
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
’	EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fees for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 28, the regular stu-
dents in the three Engineering Courses are required to
pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of materials
consumed and the deterioration of the apparatus used, as
follows:
LABORATORY FEES.
Physical Laboratory III........................$	5.00
Physical Laboratory IV....................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory I., II................. 15.00
Electrical Laboratory V...................... 20.00
Shopwork, all four-hour courses per term...... 15.00
Chemistry 1................................... 5.00
Chemistry II, IV., V., each.................. 10.00
ADMISSION.
Candidates for admission to the Freshman Year must
be at least 17 years of age. For advanced standing there
must be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATION.
Written examinations in the following subjects re-
quired for admission will be held at the University on
the first two days of the Fall Term at the beginning of
the school year:
Arithmetic—Complete, including the metric system of
weights and measures. Special importance is attached to
accuracy in calculations and the practical application of
rules.
Algebra—Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises by other authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
117
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy—Descriptive.
Civics—Elementary.
History—General outlines of Ancient, Mediaeval and
Modern History.
Geography—Physical, as much as is contained in the
ordinary text books.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar to
Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is recom-
mended, but is not required.
Chemistry—The elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in a high school.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology—As given in elemen-
tary text-books.
Modern Language—Engineering students must present
a two years course in German.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English (See page 166) ; the
remainder for writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfac-
• torily he may begin at once the regular Freshman work;
but if he is deficient in one or more subjects he may
enter conditionally and make up his deficiency as soon
as possible in the Preparatory Department.
118	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course of Civil Engineering*
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare stu-
dents by a thorough and systematic training in the scien-
ces and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to perform
intelligently the duties of their profession either in the
office or in some of the responsible positions superintend-
ing the construction and operation of public works. To
secure these results the student is given, not only a sound
theoretical training in the studies of the courses, but he is
also required to study the practical applications of the
principles upon which the theory is based. The first two
years are devoted to the study of Mathematics and the
theoretical branches. The last two years are given to the
study of the applied courses—practical work in the labor*
atory and field, as much as possible, being required through-
out the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German to
enable the student to read easily and understandingly
professional works in these languages; while the study of
English is pursued until the student is qualified to prepare
acceptable themes on professional subjects. Instruction
based upon standard text-books is given throughout the
course by means of lectures, recitations, practice in lab-
oratory, drawing room, and field. This work is largely
supplemented by assigning to the student, for solution,
practical problems bearing directly upon the subject mat-
ter discussed in the class room and requiring original
investigation, thus training the student to habits of inde-
pendence and awakening his interest in the work of his
course.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
119
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
field Engineering. After the student is taught the use
and adjustments of the instruments, surveys, elementary
in character, are commenced and continued progressively
until the more difficult principles and methods are under-
stood. In a similar manner is instruction given in the
courses in Sanitary Engineering, Hydromechanics, Re-
sistance of Materials, Bridges and Roofs, etc., thus famil-
iarizing the student with practical Engineering subjects,
and the most approved methods of execution and design-
ing.
A thesis on some approved subject connected with the
course of study, is required of each student as a condi-
tion of graduation. The thesis must embody the results
of original research.
120
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Civil Engineering,
(degree: c. e.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	53	I.	Analytic Geom.	5	53	II.
English, - -	5	42	I.	Surveying, -	5	56	II. III.
French, - -	5	50	I.	English, - -	5	42	I.
Chemistry, -	3	78	II.	French, - -	5	50	I.
Drawing, - -	3	76	I.	Chemistry, -	3	78	II.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	53	III.	Calculus, - -	5	54	IV.
Des. Geometry.	3	55	I.	Dif. Equations,	5	54	V.
R. R. Surveying	5	57	VI. VII.	Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.
Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.	Adv. Surveying,	5	56	IV. V.
Drawing, - -	4	76	II. III.	Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.
				Drawing, - -	4	76 77	III. V.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics, -	5	58	VIII.	Mechanics of Materials, -	5	58	IX.
Geodesy, - -	4	61	XVI.	Astronomy, -	3	62	I.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English,	-	4	42	II.
Geology, - -	4	90	I.	Geology, - -	4	90	III.
Drawing, - -	4	77	V.	Stereotomy, -	2	60	XIV.
				Drawing, - -	2	77	VI.
SENIOR YEAR.
Engineering, -	5	60	XII.	Engineering, - Hydromechan.,	5 3	60 61	XII. XV.
Drawing, - -	4	77	VI.	Graph. Stat., -	5	59	XI.
Bridges, Roofs,	5	59	X.	Sanitary Eng.,	2	60	XIII.
Sanitary Eng.,	2	60	XIII.	Steam Boilers,	3	64	IV.
Hydromechan.,	3	61	XV.	Thesis Work, -			
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
121
Introduction to the Course in Mechanical
Engineering.
The course in Mechanical Engineering, leading to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, is given to those young
men that wish to prepare themselves for the designing of
machinery, with its appurtenances, and for the successful
management of power-plants. As the course requires a
thorough knowledge of Pure and Applied Mathematics,
as well as of Physics, only those capable of adapting
themselves to these requirements should take it up. The
course is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough
fundamental training is best secured by a study of the
practical application of the principles involved, as well as
of the theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used
in Mechanical Engineering, accompanied by the science
of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions
of connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions or to the work done or energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct devel-
opment of kinematics, and the course continues through-
out the Junior and Senior Years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The first
year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop, in
which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When students have become suf-
ficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the work of
122
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
the student by easy steps until he has mastered all the
details of the art.
The latter part of the Senior Year is largely taken up in
the preparation of a Graduating Thesis. Here especially
the student is taught to depend as much as possible upon
his own resources and abilities in exercising his ingenui-
ty. This is the culminating effort of the course, embody-
ing its chief results, and is expected to show considerable
originality.
(Fer the equipment of the shops in which the courses are given, see
page 19.)
W
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
123
Studies Prescribed for Mechanical Engineering.
(degree: m. e.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	53	I.	Analyt. Geom.,	5	53	II.
French, - - - Drawing, - -	5	50	I.	French, - - -	5	50	I,
	3	76	I.	Drawing, - -	3	77	II.
Chemistry, -	3	78	II.	Chemistry, -	3	78	JI.
Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. a	Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. b.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	53	III.	Calculus, - -	5	54	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.
Drawing, - -	2	76	II.	Drawing, - -	3	76	II.
Chemistry, -	5	79	IV.	Chemistry, -	5	79	V.
Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.	Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.
Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. c	Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. d
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytical Mechanics,	5	58	VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat. Machine design	5 3	58 65	IX. VI.
Kinematics, -	5	64	V.	Valve Gears,	2	65	VII.
English, - -	5	42	I.	English, - -	5	42	I.
Drawing, -	3	77	IV.	Drawing, - -	3	77	IV.
Physics, - -	3	82	IV.	Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. f.
Bhopwork, - -	3	67	X. e			—. , ■■■ —■■ — — - .			
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of - Engineering,	2	63	IL	Steam Engine Design, - -	5	63	III.
Thermodynam,	5	63	I.	Steam Boilers,	3	64	IV.
Steam Engine				Thesis, - - -	12	66	IX.
Design, - -	5	63	III.	Hydraulics, -	3	63	I.
Mechani’l Lab.	3	65	VIII.				
Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. f.				
122
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
the student by easy steps until he has mastered all the
details of the art.
The latter part of the Senior Year is largely taken up in
the preparation of a Graduating Thesis. Here especially
the student is taught to depend as much as possible upon
his own resources and abilities in exercising his ingenui-
ty. This is the culminating effort of the course, embody-
ing its chief results, and is expected to show considerable
originality.
(Fer the equipment of the shops in which the courses are given, see
page 19.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
123
Studies Prescribed for Mechanical Engineering*
(degree: m. b.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	53	I.	Analyt. Geom.,	5	53	II.
French, - - -	5	50	I.	French, - - -	5	50	I.
Drawing, - -	3	76	I.	Drawing, - -	3	77	II.
Chemistry, -	3	78	II.	Chemistry, -	3	78	.11.
Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. a	Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. b.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	53	III.	Calculus, - -	5	54	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.
Drawing, - -	2	76	II.	Drawing, - -	3	76	II.
Chemistry, -	5	79	IV.	Chemistry, -	5	79	V.
Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.	Physics, - -	5	81	II. III.
Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. c	Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. d
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytical Mechanics,	5	58	VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat. Machine design	5 3	58 65	IX. VI.
Kinematics, -	5	64	V.	Valve Gears,	2	65	VII.
English, - -	5	42	I.	English, - -	5	42	I.
Drawing, -	3	77	IV.	Drawing, - -	3	77	IV.
Physics, - -	3	82	IV.	Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. f.
Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. e				
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of - Engineering,	2	63	II.	Steam Engine Design, - -	5	63	III.
Thermodynam,	5	63	I.	Steam Boilers,	3	64	IV.
Steam Engine				Thesis, - - -	12	66	IX.
Design, - -	5	63	III.	Hydraulics, -	3	63	I.
Mechani’l Lab.	3	65	VIII.				
Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. f.				
124'	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course of Electrical Engineering*
^8
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory, and practice of Electrical and Me-
chanical work. The study of the subjects arranged on the
following page is intended to give a general education as
well as special training in the technical branches involved
in the various practical applications of electricity in in-
dustrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires some skill in
handling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records of
the work done in the laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
center in the growth of which electricity is taking a very
prominent part. Electric power generated by steam is
now being distributed and utilized in several large plants,
some using the three phase alternating system while
others are using the direct current. One of the largest
water power developments in the middle west is situated
within a few miles of the University. From this estab-
lishment we receive three phase alternating currents
which furnish light for our buildings and grounds and
power for driving motors in our shops and printing
offices, etc., alk of which are operated by electricity.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
125
There are numerous other transmission lines and elec-
trical power stations operated by water power within a
short distance. Our students visit all of these plants accom-
panied by an instructor who points out the applications of
the text-book theory in the design of electrical apparatus
and its operation under actual working conditions.
(For requirements for admission, degree, etc., see pages 115-117.)
THESIS.
Each candidate for graduation must present at the end of
the Senior Year an acceptable Thesis embodying the results
of an extended original research on an Engineering subject,
chosen at the beginning of the year, with the approval of the
head of the department. The descriptive part must be
typewritten on ledger paper, and bound in book form
together with the drawings.
126
UNIVERSITY OF NOTEE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Electrical Engineering*
(degree: m. e. ins. e.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	53	I.	Analyt. Geom.,	5	53	II.
French, - -	5	50	I.	French, - -	5	50	I.
Drawing, - -	4	76	I.	Drawing, - -	4	76	II.
Chemistry,	3	78	II.	Chemistry,	3	78	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. a.	Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. b.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	53	III.	Calculus, - -	5	54	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.	Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.
Chemistry,	3	79	IV.	Physical Prob.,	2	81	III.
Physics, - -	3	81	II.	Physics, - - Shop work, - -	3	81	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. c.		3	67	X. d.
Physical Prob.,	2	81	III.	Drawing, - -	2	71	II.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytical Mechanics,	5	58	VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat., Machine design	5 5	58 65	IX. VI. VII.
Kinematics, -	5	64	V.	English, - -	5	42	I.
English, - -	5	42	I.	Physics, - -	3	82	IV.
Physics, - -	3	82	IV.	Shop work, - -	3	67	XL f.
Shop work, - -	3	67	XI. e.				
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo Machinery,	5	68	in.	Dynamo Machinery,	5	68	III.
Thermodynam,	5	63	I.	Electrical Lab.,	5	69	IV.
Electrical Lab.,	5	69	IV.	Designing, - -	3	69	V.
Designing, - -	3	69	V.	Thesis, - - -			
Thesis, - - -				Hydraulics, -	3	63	I.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
127
Short Course in Applied Electricity.
Students that do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
course should enter this shorter course, which may be
completed in two years. It is arranged to give an accu-
rate knowledge of the fundamental theories of electricity
and magnetism, as well as a certain amount of skill in
handling electrical machinery and appliances. Algebra,
geometry, trigonometry, and elementary physics are in-
cluded, for they are necessary in order to carry on suc-
cessfully the practical work of designing, manufacturing
and testing or operating electrical apparatus. Training
in this practical work is given in the draughting room,
the machine shops, and in the electrical and physical lab-
oratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application of
electricity to the distribution of light and power are
learned by testing, repairing, and making additions to
the University plant and by visiting the numerous electric
plants in the vicinity, accompanied by an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the course and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in the
shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to this course should be at
least 17 years of age. They should have a fair knowledge
of the subjects taught in the common schools, especially
arithmetic and algebra as far as quadratics.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate stating that fact is issued.
128
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Short Course in
Applied Electricity.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	170	C	Geometry, - -	5	171	D
Drawing, - -	3	76	I.	Drawing, - -	3	76	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. a.	Shopwork, - -	3	66	X. b.
Physics, - -	5	81	I.	Physics, - -	5	81	I.
Applied Electricity,	5	67	I.	Applied Electricity,	5	67	I.
SECOND YEAR.
Trigonometry, Drawing, - -	5 3	172 69	H. V.	Engines and Boilers, - -	3	66	X
Shopwork, -	3	67	X. c.	Drawing, - -	3	69	V.
Dynamo				Shopwork, - -	3	67	X. d.
Machinery,	5	68	III.	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery,	5	68	III.
Electricity,	5	68	II.	Applied			
				Electricity,	5	68	II.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
129
COURSE IN ARCHITECTURE.
ADMISSION.
Candidates for .admission to the Freshman Year must
be at least 17 years of age. For advanced standing there
must be a corresponding increase in the age limit;
DESCRIPTION OF THE COURSE.
Those subjects that are not taught in the architect’s
office but which are necessary for an architect are espec-
ially insisted upon in this course.
The work in technical and freehand drawing is thor-
ough, and the student is prepared for the expression of
his architectural plans.
In construction and practice the courses prescribed for
the students in the civil and mechanical engineering
schools are followed with special application to architec-
tural requirements. The aesthetic part of the work thus
has a practical and exact basis.
The history of architecture is taught by lecture and
illustrations.
The material equipment consists .of plaster models,
engravings and photographs of noted buildings, books on
architecture, and the apparatus of the engineering and
art schools.
130
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Course in Architecture.
(DEGREE: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	53	I.	Analytic Geom.	5	53	II.
English, - -	5	42	I.	English, - -	5	42	I.
French, - -	5	50	I.	French, - -	5	50	I.
Meeh. Drawing	2	76	I.	Meeh. Drawing	2	76	II.
Artistic Draw.,	5	74	I.a, I.b	Artistic Draw.,	5	74	I.c, I.d.
Chemistry, -	3	78	II.	Chemistry, -	3	78	II.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	53	III.	Calculus, - -	5	54	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	55	I.	Des. Geometry.	3	55	I.
Meeh. Drawing	4	76	II. III.	Meeh. Drawing,	4	76	II. III.
Artistic Draw.,	5	74	II a	Artistic Draw.,	5	74	II. a.
Physics, - - Archit. Orders,	5	81	II. III.	Physics, - -	5	81	II III.
	4	70	II.	Archit. Orders,	4	70	II.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Meeh.	R u	58	VIII.	Meeh, of Mar’ls	5	58	IX.
Geology, - - Meeh. Draw.,*	4	90	I.	Geology, - -	4	90	III.
	4	77	VI.	Meeh. Draw.,*	4	77	VII.
Artistic Draw.,	5	75	II. b.	Artistic Draw.,	5	75	II. b.
History of Arch	3	69	I.	Hist, of Arch.,	3	69	I.
				Stereotomy, -	2	60	XIV.
SENIOR YEAR.
Arch’l Design,!	10	71	III.	Arch’l Design,!	10	71	III.
Roof Trusses,	5	59	X.	Graph. Statics,	5	59	XL
Masonry and				Theory Arches,	2	72	VI.
Iron Constr’n,	3	71	V.	Sanitary Eng.,	2	60	XIII.
Sanitary Eng.	2	60	XIII.	Vent & Heat.,	3	71	IV.
Specifications,	2	72	VII.	Thesis Work, -	e		
* Pen-and-ink and Water-color rendering are applied in this work,
f In this course is included work done in Course III, page ^o.
School of Law.
132
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
FACULTY.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C„
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D., Dean,
International Law, Equity Jurisprudence and Pleadings,
Common Law Pleadings, Real and Personal Property,
Evidence, Domestic Relations, Criminal Law,
Corporations, Constitutional Law,
Contracts, Torts, etc.
Hon. LUCIUS HUBBARD, LL. D.,
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Hon. TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Appellate Jurisdiction of Courts of Last Resort.
ARTHUR L. HUBBARD, A. B., LL. B.,
Damages and Study of Cases.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, A. B., LL. B.,
Elementary Law, Quiz Work, etc.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
133
SCHOOL OF LAW.
For several years a systematic movement has been in
progress under the auspices of the bench and bar of the
country to elevate the standing and promote the efficien-
cy of the legal profession, and make it as learned in fact
as it is in name. The most essential preliminary step to
this end, as lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe re-
quirements and examinations more comprehensive and
rigorous as a test of qualifications for
ADMISSION TO THE BAR.
Upon the law departments of universities, or law
schools, as they may collectively be called, the profession
must mainly depend for co-operation and success in this
laudable undertaking. In fact, due acknowledgment of
the importance of their services is made as follows in a
former report of the Committee on Legal Education of
the American Bar Association:
“The benefits which law schools offer are easily suggested, and
are of the most superior kind. They afford the student an acquaint-
ance with general principles, difficult if not impossible to be other-
wise obtained; they serve to remove difficulties which are inherent in
scientific and technical phraseology, and as a necessary consequence
they furnish the student with the means for clear conception and
accurate and precise expression. They familiarize him with leading
cases, and the application of them to discussion. They give him the
valuable habit of attention, teach him familiar maxims and offer him
the priceless opportunities which result from contact and generous
emulation. They lead him readily to survey the law as a science,
and imbue him with the principles of ethics as its true foundation.
Disputing, reasoning, reading, and discoursing, become his constant
exercise; he improves remarkably as he becomes acquainted with
them, and obtains progress otherwise beyond his reach.”
134	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
According to the late Chief Justice Waite, of the United
States Supreme Court, “Law schools are now a necessity;”
and, in his work entitled “The American Commonwealth,”
Professor Bryce attributes the progress in learning and
professional attainments of American lawyers “to the extra-
ordinary excellence of many of the law schools.”
It is probably well that the Professor qualifies his state-
ment by using the word “many,” instead of “all,” in referring
to the work of the law schools of the country; for some of
them, regrettable to state, appear to be deficient in whole-
some zeal to co-operate in elevating the standing of
professional learning and ethics. They seem not to discrim-
inate. At any rate, they permit persons wanting even in
the rudiments of a liberal education to become candidates for
diplomas. Their attitude in this respect would seem to
indicate that a large attendance and substantial revenue are
placed paramount in the scale of importance to substantial
results in the equipment and training of students. Such of
these young men as manage without further preparation to
secure admission to the bar almost necessarily commit gross
mistakes in the technical work of the profession; and, in
consequence, clients are misled, judges embarrassed and
courts delayed. While it is true that many of them abandon -
the practice after a precarious experience and turn to pur-
suits for which they are better qualified, yet the step is
attended in some measure with disappointment and humilia-
tion, not to mention the comparative loss of time and means
incident to preparing for examination and waiting vainly for
success.
The movement in progress to protect and promote the
interests of the legal profession has spread sufficiently of
late to become an obstacle to the continuance of these abuses,
exceptional though they be. Hereafter such law schools as
receive students indiscriminately, without particular regard
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
135
to their educational standing, maintaining a loose system of
instruction and permitting loose methods of study, with
possibly a promise of graduation in one or two years, must
in most States, at any rate, suffer the humiliation incident
to the rejection as incompetent of their graduates by the
examining boards designated to pass upon the qualifications
of applicants for admission to the bar. This movement is
salutary in all respects, and law schools that fail to conform
to it in the duration and thoroughness of their courses of
instruction have no valid claim upon the approval of the
profession, the patronage of students or the confidence of
the public.
It is becoming more difficult year by year successfully to
meet the requirements and pass the examinations prescribed
for admission to the bar, and law schools are bound to take
cognizance of the fact and correspondingly broaden and
strengthen their courses of instruction. A few years ago it
was far less difficult than it is at present to enter the ranks
of the profession, and the decided tendency is to make even
more exacting the test of qualifications for membership.
With this tendency uninterrupted, the profession gives
promise of attaining to its coveted ideal in learning, ethics
and' efficiency.	-
And here it may be in order to refer more particularly to
THE SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
in the Law Department of the University of Notre Dame,
although, of course, it is included in general terms in what
has been stated regarding the duty of law schools to aid in
promoting the laudable aims and general welfare of the
legal profession.
Referring briefly to the prevailing methods of instruction
in the different law schools, it may be stated that in some of
them the text-book system is exclusively followed, and the
136
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
students read and recite daily an assigned lesson of a given
number of pages; in others the lecture system obtains, as in
European universities, and students familiar with phonog-
raphy may take notes and sufficiently study the same to be
able in subsequent examinations to answer questions bear-
ing upon the subjects studied; in a few others the study of
cases, or case reading, is the favored system, and students
read books of selected cases treating of different branches
of the law, with a view to reciting them in outline or writ-
ing a brief digest of the points involved; in certain other
schools an effort has been made to combine some of the
distinctive features of case reading, text-book work and
lecturing, and a mixed or eclectic system, as it may be
called, exists in them. At Notre Dame, however, none of
these systems is exclusively followed, although there is a
nearer approach to the last than to any of the others. With
careful discrimination, the best features of all are comprised
in the curriculum here preferred. It is„ believed, in short,
that nowhere in the country is the law course more com-
prehensive, thorough and practical than at this University.
The study of cases is usually taken up early in September,
year by year, and continued long enough to enable students
to understand, analyze and criticise the decisions assigned
to them for study and recitation. The difficulties usually
encountered by beginners in the work are readily surmounted
by the aid of lectures and explanations. In a comparatively
short time students become familiar with a number of the
leading cases and learn to recognize features of strength or
weakness in-the opinions of the courts. They learn also to
distinguish dicta from the logical sequence of thought in
dealing with the proper subjects of judicial determination,
and recognize promptly the qualifying or weakening effect
of a dissenting opinion, where such is filed by a minority of
the judges. Moreover, after thus familiarizing themselves
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
137
with cases, they are advised and expected to read the author-
ities cited daily in class, whether in the text-books, lectures,
or quizzes. In the preparation also of written theses from
month to month, comprising on an average ten or twelve
pages of legal cap, they must necessarily consult and cite
them. In moot-court work likewise they are prompted and
emulously incited in their foretaste of forensic contests to
make a careful study not only of the cases in the reports, but
also of the pertinent portions of text-books, digests, etc., and
thus they are enabled intelligently to marshal the authorities
upon which they depend for success in the maintenance of
their respective contentions.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts of
some States require applicants to furnish lists of the text-
books they studied, and such of these applicants as have
merely attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligible to
stand as candidates for examination, even though they might
creditably acquit themselves in it. If they undertake to ex-
plain how the law may be learned without studying a certain
number of text-books, they find the examiners inclined to
listen increduously, if not openly and positively to express
doubt. And if they ask credit for the work done, it is likely
to be given so sparingly as to cause disappointment and dis-
couragement. As some of the law students at Notre Dame
come from States in which this test is applied in examina-
tions, the use of text-books is deemed advisable, if not
necessary. But there are other reasons for using them. It
has been found, for example, that so many mistakes are made
by the average student in committing lectures to writing
that his notes are frequently unintelligible or misleading,
and consequently practically worthless for future reference.
While it is true that this objection might be overcome by
resorting to the slow, if not tedious, process of dictation, yet
138
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
this method of instruction would manifestly be impracticable
under present conditions in a domain so extensive as the
law. Moreover, the books used by students become pecu-
liarly serviceable in their subsequent practice. Remembering
more or less clearly the contents, they can turn more readily
than they could with books they had not studied to the pages
that elucidate the questions with which they may afterwards
have to deal at the instance of courts, clients and opposing
counsel. In some law schools lectures have been taken in
full by certain students skilled in pronography, and then
typewritten and sold at so much a page to other members of
the class, but this practice has fallen into disfavor and disuse,
having proved to be very unsatisfactory and more costly than
the purchase of text-books.
The lecture or dictation system alone may be pronounced
antiquated and impracticable for the reasons already stated,
but in combination with text-book work, case reading and
daily examinations, its great value and practical utility can-
not be overestimated. At Notre Dame it forms an important
factor in the law curriculum. Each subject is fully covered
by lectures, text-book work, daily and bi-monthly examina-
tions, monthly theses, the reading of pertinent cases and
formal trials in the moot and other courts of the University.-
This course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough,
and practical. It cannot be excelled. It may be stated
without qualification or reserve that the earnest and indus-
trious student can accomplish twice as much in a given
time at Notre Dame as he can in an office or at home. With
comparative immunity from the distractions and tempta-
tions of city life, he can give his entire time to study and
necessary recreation. In short, he can here study a greater
number of hours and do more class work day by day than
probably anywhere else in the entire country.
The authorities of the University, it may be repeated, are
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	139
✓
sincerely in sympathy with the efforts now making in
educational and legal circles to raise to the highest plane
practicable
THE STANDARD OF PROFICIENCY
for graduation in law and admission to the bar. And yet
they aim to be guided in the matter by the dictates of com-
mon sense. They know that a great number of worthy and
capable young men who desire to qualify themselves for the
legal profession are prevented by circumstances from com-
pleting the studies of a collegiate course before an age that
seems to make imperative the obligation of beginning with-
out delay the study of law. Such young men, many of whom
may be actively engaged in business, in teaching, in jour-
nalistic work, and the like, are almost necessarily driven to
the chaotic and discouraging study of the law in offices, if
denied indulgent consideration by the institutions of higher
learning and the leading law schools.
It is conceived to be the duty of a university to do all the
good it can to as many as possible, consistently with its cur-
riculum and standing; and to that end it ought to aid and
encourage, to the full limit of its opportunities, worthy and
upright, honest and capable young men who manifest an
earnest desire to qualify themselves for a useful and credit-
able career in the higher walks of professional life. With a
view to doing its full share in this regard, the University
of Notre Dame will welcome to its halls and its classes every
deserving young man who desires to pursue and become
proficient in the study of the law. But, if his standing
in collegiate work or general education be not sufficiently
advanced to enable him to undertake with profit the studies
of the Junior year in law, he may enter the Elementary class,
the members of which are given instruction in the funda-
mental principles of the law for an hour each day. The
140
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
remainder of his time is devoted to study and recitation in
such of the collegiate courses as, in the opinion of the
authorities, may prove most useful and helpful in qualifying
him to enter as speedily as practicable upon the studies of
the Junior and Senior law classes.
A faithful discharge of the duties devolving upon the
students of these classes demands their entire time. Every
hour of the day can be devoted profitably to the work as-
signed to them. Even the Postgraduate students, whose
time is devoted exclusively to law work, find it sufficient to
keep them very busy. And yet it seems that, in an indulgent
spirit, an exception ought to be made in the interest of such
students as by previous study in other law schools, or law
offices, or actual practice as attorneys, have acquired the
right to be credited with work acceptably done, or advanced
standing in the course. It is deemed only fair and proper
to allow such as these to take electively any additional
studies they may choose in the regular or special courses
of the University. But this option may not be exercised
without permission and reasonable assurance that it will
not interfere with the work prescribed for students of the
Law Department.
The rule requiring regularity in class attendance is im-
perative. Once students enter a class they are expected to
remain in it for the session at least, faithfully performing
the duties it imposes upon them. They may thus, by coming
to Notre Dame to complete their legal studies, materially
add to their attainments in any other branches of knowledge
likely to be helpful to them in their practice as lawyers.
This fact tends pertinently to illustrate the special advan-
tages to be derived from studying law at a university. There
the educational atmosphere is elevating, broadening, invig-
orating. It awakens a wholesome spirit of emulation. It
encourages the exercise of all the faculties and intellectual
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
141
powers. It serves as a potent and salutary force in the
development of mind and body. The impressive lesson it
inculcates relative to the past, the present and the future—
the manifold duties of life—necessarily directs the thoughtful
to paths of knowledge and usefulness. It awakens life-
directing forces that else would perhaps ever lie dormant.
It tends to turn thought and action toward high ideals, the
acquisition of useful knowledge, sturdy self-reliance and a
strong sense of moral obligation in the consciousness of in-
creasing power and influence at the bar.
Students who do not intend to become candidates for the
degree of LL. B.} but wish simply to add to their educational
acquirements a knowledge of the
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE LAW
may at any time during the year have their names enrolled
on the list of students in the Elementary class. No extra
expense is thereby incurred. However, such students must
be sufficiently advanced in age and education to justify the
belief that they can understand and appreciate instruction
in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily,
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that an edu-
cation is not complete without a knowledge of at least the
elementary principles of the law. Many a man in trade has
had to face financial ruin on account of want of acquaintance
with the fundamental legal principles. Although in theory,
at least, every person is presumed to know the law, yet many
a man has, by an inconsiderate act, due to his ignorance of
it, forfeited claim to the protection of the courts and the
vindication of his rights. Many a person has been forced to
do exactly the contrary of what he intended through his
failure to understand the essential elements of a contract.
Many a one has been compelled to pay heavy damages for
142
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
personal injuries caused by negligence, or failure to perform
a duty, or improper performance of it, where no liability
would exist if the law of torts had been known and ob-
served. As the law is over and around every creature from
the first moment of his being until the grave closes upon him
and his estate is settled, it would be impossible to overesti-
mate its vital interest and importance. Indeed, there is no
study that can at all compare with it in practical utility, in
training the mind to accuracy of observation, in strengthen-
ing the judgment and in imparting to the faculties the pow’er
of discernment implied in what may be called common sense.
A period of three years is prescribed for undergraduates
in the
COURSE OF STUDY
in the Law Department of this University. It leads when
satisfactorily completed to the degree of LL. B. The Post-
graduate course comprises an additional or fourth year, and
leads to the degree of LL. M. By its charter this University
is empowered to confer these and all other degrees appertain-
ing to the courses of study in educational institutions of the
highest rank. There is no university that has greater power
under the law in this respect. ,
The undergraduate law students are divided into three
classes, corresponding to each year of the course leading to
the degree of LL. B. They are known respectively as the
Elementary, Junior and Senior classes. The Postgraduate
course is for students who have received that degree and
aim at attaining by further study and practical work to a
higher grade of proficiency. A full year of study in each
class is obligatory. Moreover, the student must pass a satis-
factory general examination at the close of each scholastic
year. This test is indispensable as a condition of promotion
in the Elementary and Junior classes and as evidence of
qualifications for graduation in the Senior class. .
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
143
The subjects of study and the work to be done in each
class are here briefly outlined:
ELEMENTARY CLASS—FIRST YEAR.
An hour daily is given to instruction, recitation and work
in the class-room during the first year. The class-room,
commodious and well appointed, is in the main building.
The regular course of instruction consists in text-book work,
lectures, quizzes, written exercises and attendance at moot-
court trials and society meetings. The books primarily used
are Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries, Other works of
elementary law are also used, as occasion may require. Such
are chosen as seem best adapted and most useful for pur-
poses of instruction. Of these mention may be made of
Walker’s American Law, Smith’s Elementary Law, Mun-
son’s Elementary Practice, Keener’s Selections on Jurispru-
dence, Holland’s Elements of Jurisprudence, Robinson’s
Elements of American Jurisprudence, Fishback’s Manual of
Elementary Law, and the like. The recently published edition
of Blackstone’s Commentaries by Dr. William Draper Lewis,
is justly regarded as the best and most complete known to
the profession, although the chart feature of Blickenderfer’s
Elements of Blackstone is much appreciated by students.
Browne’s Blackstone, too, is a carefully prepared summary
in one volume of the essential elements of the original work.
Browne’s Edition of Kent’s Commentaries is also a useful
summary in one volume of the original treatise. However,
it is usually safer for students to purchase their books after
joining the class. Uniformity is thus assured, as well as
lowest current prices. This suggestion applies not only to
the Elementary students, but also to the Juniors and Seniors.
Persons who desire to become members of the Elementary
class must be at least eighteen years of age and entitled to
collegiate standing in their general education. -However,
144
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ample opportunity is afforded them to pursue such additional
studies as may seem useful in preparing for a successful
career in the law. For example, a knowledge of Latin,
Logic, History, Political Economy, and the like, would be
helpful to them. Other subjects, also, in which they may
either regard themselves as deficient or wish to excel, may
likewise be entered on their lists of studies. Should it be
deemed necessary or advisable for them to perfect themselves
in these studies, whether one year or several years be requi-
site, it would be entirely practicable meanwhile to attend the
exercises of the Elementary class. Work thus done would
necessarily serve to broaden and deepen the foundation of
subsequent work in the Junior and Senior years, making it
peculiarly effective and promising. The work done in this
class is exceptionally interesting and instructive for begin-
ners, and there is sufficient change in it annually to sustain
interest and make attendance profitable, though continued
for two or more years.
JUNIOR CLASS—SECOND YEAR.
When a student enters this class his close attention, and
earnest thought, and best efforts must be directed exclusively
to the study of law. He must attend class exercises at least
three hours daily. This he must do for the entire scholastic
year. Otherwise he cannot be regarded as entitled to promo-
tion to the Senior class. He must do the full work of the
year if he would advance with his class and share its honors.
Tf the student be a collegiate Postgraduate in the Classics,
Sciences, Letters, or the like, or has attained to equivalent
acquirements and standing by work and experience in pro-
fessional pursuits, or lines of thought and study kindred to
the law, he may be eligible primarily to membership in this
class. In such case it would be necessary for him to under-
take and perform the most essential work of the Elementary
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
145
class in addition to his other duties. The practicability of
the undertaking may be inferred from the fact that it is
sought to do in this class fully the work of a year and a half,
as gauged by the courses of other educational institutions.
That this has been done in many instances cannot be doubted,
although there has never been special reference to any other
institution, with a view to comparison, or as an incentive to
exceptional effort. Presumably the result is due to a pro-
gressive system of instruction, more recitations daily, a
greater number of hours for study, and the purpose of each
member of the Faculty to do his best in the performance of
duty. But, notwithstanding these facts, it is necessary for
many of the students, no matter how well advanced or
finished their education, to take the full course of three years.
The fact that they might accomplish in two years all that is
ordinarily done in three, makes no difference. This is due to
the action of courts and legislatures in many of the States.
A rule has been established requiring three years of actual
study of the law as a prerequisite to applying for admission
to the bar. Persons from these States must take the full
three years' course, including the Elementary class. How-
ever, if their general education be finished, and it seem
superfluous to do further collegiate work, they may select in
. preference the Junior, Senior and Postgraduate years as
covering the time required for study in the States in which
they intend to . practice. Of course, this question will not
arise in States that require only two years of study, and
students from such States who are entitled to postgraduate
standing ought to be able to do in two years the ordinary
work of three, and thus qualify themselves in that time to
undergo without difficulty the most rigorous examination
for admission to the bar.
In arranging the course of study it is Sought to take
subjects in their logical sequence. The less difficult, though
146
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
by no means the less important, come in the Junior year,
while the more technical are dealt with in the Senior year,
except in the case of Pleadings and Evidence. A knowl-
edge of these renders moot court work intelligible and
profitable to an exceptional degree, and hence they enter
into the plan of instruction in the Junior year. The moot
court practice is an important factor in the course of instruc-
tion for all the classes, and there can be no question regard-
ing the advisability of learning and applying the rules of
pleading and evidence at as early a date as practicable.
Following are the chief subjects of study in the Junior year
and the names of some of the authors of text-books dealing
with them:
The Common and Statutory Laws, with Exercises in
Case Reading and Statutory Construction.
Black on Interpretation of Laws, Bishop's Written Law,
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Curtis' Federal
Statutes.
Law Dictionaries.
Anderson, Black, Bouvier, Shumaker & Longsdorf.
Persons and Domestic Relations.
Tiffany, Dwight, Schouler, Reeves, Rodgers.
The Law of Contracts.	'
Hammon, Clark, Lawson, Bishop, Beach, Anson, Parsons.
The Law of Torts.
Hale, Jaggard, Cooley, Hilliard, Addison, Bishop's Non-
Contract Law.	*
.	Criminal Law and Procedure.
Clark, Bishop, Heard, May, Hawley & McCregor, Wash-
burn, Wharton, Stephen, Clark & Marshall.	■ ■
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
147
Medical Jurisprudence.
Reese, Dean, Beck, Taylor.
Common Law Pleadings.
Shipman, Gould, Stephen, Shinn, Heard, Chitty, Perry,
Bryant.
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Bliss, Maxwell, Boone, Phillips, Thompson on Trials,
Elliott’s General Practice, Elliott’s Appellate Procedure,
Foster’s First Book of Practice, Estee’s Pleadings, Blash-
Held’s Instructions to Juries.
Evidence.
Jones, Underhill, Greenleaf, Wharton, Reynolds, Roscoe,
Starkie, Stephen, Best, Lawson on Expert and Opinion
Evidence.
Sales.	*
Tiffany, Tiedeman, Benjamin, Burdick.
Insurance.
Mayf Elliott, Wood, Bliss, Joyce, Kerr.
Agency.
Reinhard, Mechem, Evans, Story, Wharton.
Partnership.
Bates, Shumaker, George, Lindley, Parsons, Pollock.
It would be supererogatory to enumerate the subdivisions
or branches of the subjects mentioned. All of them, how-
ever, receive due attention and are fully explained. And it
may be stated that, with a view to enabling students to
obviate the expense of purchasing many books, subjects of
brief compass are taught, as may seem practicable, by means
of lectures, case reading, quizzes, theses and moot court
trials. But should text-books be preferred at any time,
resort may be had to their use.
148
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SENIOR CLASS—THIRD YEAR.
So much of what has been stated with reference to the
preceding classes is applicable also to students of the Senior
year that it will be unnecessary to enlarge on the nature of
their work. A detailed description of it might involve
repetition to some extent, and thus become tedious. Those
eligible to membership are such as have satisfactorily
finished the studies of the first and second years and earned
the right to promotion. And yet, in compliance with a
custom generally recognized by the leading universities,
lawyers in good standing who desire to join the class, in
order to broaden and systematize their knowledge of the
law, are also admitted to it. On passing a satisfactory
examination at the end of the year they become, like other
students, entitled to the degree of LL. B. And the same
courtesy is extended to students of good moral character
who have acceptably finished the work of two years in law
schools or law departments of other universities. The *
leading subjects of study, together with the names of the
authors of some of the text-books treating of them, are
here presented:
Equity Jurisprudence.
Fetter, Tiedeman, Eaton, Snell, Story, Adams, Merwin.
Equity Pleadings and Practice.
Fletcher, Shipman, Shinn, Lube, Shipp & Daish.
International Law.
Glenn, Hall, Story, Vattel, Woolsey, Wheaton, Halleck,
Davis.
Constitutional Law.
Black, Cooley, Von Holst, Desty, Story, Hamilton, Madi-
son and Jay in the Federalist.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
149
Private and Municipal Corporations.
Marshall, Clark, Elliott, Beach, Field, Angell & Ames,
Dillon, Tiedeman, Wild.
Personal Property.
Tiedeman, Darlington, Schouler, Smith, Williams.
Real Property.
Hopkins, Tiedemen, Williams, Washburn, Willard,
Boone.
Wills, Executors and Administrators.
Croszvell, Redfield, Jarman, O'Hara, Wigram.
Bailments and Common Carriers.
Flale, Hutchinson, Edwards, Schouler, Story.
Negotiable Instruments or Commercial Paper.
Norton, Tiedemen, Daniel, Chalmers, Randolph.
Suretyship and Guaranty.
Brandt, Baylies, De Colyar, Pitman, Pingrey.
The subdivisions of the principal subjects indicated in the
preceding list are, of course, included in the general terms
designating those subjects, and it is unnecessary specially to
enumerate them. For example, it would be superflous to
refer specifically to Arbitration, Demand, Estoppel, Injunc-
tion, Insolvency, Protest, Assessment, Taxation, Manda-
mus, Quo Warranto, Ultra Vires, Recoupment, Set-off,
Counterclaim, Debtor and Creditor, and the like, for they
are carefully considered and fully explained in connection
with the broader subjects to which they relate.
The subjects of study are not necessarily taken, one by
one, in consecutive order, as given in the list. Three or four
of them may engage the attention and demand the work of
150
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the class at the same time. To illustrate: The class meets
for recitation three or four times daily—say, once or twice
in the forenoon and twice in the afternoon. International
Law may be chosen for the morning hour, special work in
office business or court practice afterward, Constitutional
Law the first hour in the afternoon and Municipal or Pri-
vate Corporations later. Once a subject is chosen for a
particular class, whether first, second, third or fourth in the
daily routine, it is continued exclusively in the same class,
without break or interruption, until finished.
The special work indicated consists in conveyancing,
preparation of pleadings, the manner of taking appeals and
office business generally. It is intended more particularly
for the Seniors and Postgraduates. The Senior students are
expected to devote approximately twenty hours a week to
recitations or class work.
By the system outlined in the foregoing paragraph it is
sought to keep each subject before the mind of the student
until he firmly grasps and understands it. Thus it becomes
distinctively and permanently fixed in the mind. The prac-
tice of teaching to the same class one subject one day,
another the next, and still another the day following, as
where non-resident professors, each with a different sub-
ject, follow daily one the other, finds no encouragement at
Notre Dame. Such blending of subjects and intermingling
of principles manifestly tend to confusion of thought and
chaos of subject-matter. It is admittedly very difficult in
such case to comprehend and understand the law as a
symmetrical whole—a system majestic and beautiful in its
harmonious entirety.
POSTGRADUATE COURSE—FOURTH YEAR.
Only graduates in law are admitted to this course. But
these may be from any other university in good standing,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
151
as well as from our own Law Department. A year can
very profitably be given to the work prescribed for gradua-
tion in it. The degree conferred is that of Master of Laws.
The work of this course is eminently practical and of the
greatest possible utility to those who intend to engage in
the practice of the profession on their own account at an
early date, and not to give two or three years of probation
to the drudgery of a clerkship at small salary in some office.
Every year of study greatly increases the interest of the
student in the law and his power to understand it. If
bright and industrious, he ought to do as much effective
work while a Senior as he did during the two preceding
years, and his capacity to learn ought to increase in corre-
sponding ratio in the Postgraduate course. By working
earnestly and devotedly during the year he can review the
studies of the preceding three years and confidently reach
out in other directions to acquire additional knowledge.
The nature of his work and the subjects of his study may
here be briefly indicated:
Study of the Statutes and System of Pleadings of his State.
Practice in taking Depositions.
Frequent Participation in Moot Court Trials.
Arguments on Motions for New Trials.
Preparation of Bills of Exceptions, Briefs, Records and
Abstracts of Records in Appeals.
The Framing of Arguments for a Rehearing.
Duties of Masters in Chancery, Referees and Arbitrators.
Duties of Assignees and Receivers; also, of Public Officers.
Examination of Abstracts of Title and the Making of
Deeds, Mortgages, Leases, etc., in C onvey anting.
A Critical Study of Pleadings, with Reference to Forms
and Substance.
Jurisdiction of the Federal Courts.
The Roman Law and Comparative Jurisprudence.
152
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The exercises of the class in office work are attended not
only by the students of the Postgraduate course, but also by
the Seniors. From a practical point of view, these exercises
are highly important, and the change in them annually is
sufficient to suggest novelty and make them very interest-
ing and instructive to the students of succeeding years, as
where Seniors finish the Postgraduate course. This work
includes the examination of abstracts of title, practical
examples in conveyancing, a critical study of the different
forms of pleadings and the general business of a successfully
conducted law office. While even one year of study in this
class is admittedly very helpful, if not actually necessary,
a second year cannot fail to be singularly beneficial.
THE COMMON LAW
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the law gener-
ally prevailing throughout the Union—the law that obtains
in the States. It addresses itself to almost all the relations
of life. In fact, about nineteen out of every twenty cases
tried in our courts are decided in accordance with its princi-
ples. It is generally uniform in its operation. However,
the statutory enactments of State legislators overcome and
displace it, so far as they conflict with its provisions. These
enactments differ materially in the different States, owing
to unlike conditions and local differences. Thus it is that
the laws of certain States are so radically unlike the laws of
other States. Of course, there are instances in which
statutes are passed to cover acts and conditions not provided
for by the common law; but in most instances the existing
statutes simply declare, qualify or render inoperative some
of its rules.
In view of these facts, thorough instruction is here given
in the common law. Neither lawyers nor judges pretend to
know the statutes of any other State than of that in which
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	153
they practice or preside. In fact, a knowledge of the statutes
of different States would be more confusing and bewildering
than profitable to judges, lawyers and students. Moreover,
they are liable to be radically changed from time to time by
legislative bodies representing diverse political interests and
opinions. In an examination for admission to the bar of
this or any other State, no question is put and nothing is
said relative to the statutes of sister States. In fact, the
States are treated as foreign to one another in law. There
are, however, certain fundamental statutory enactments that
exist without material diversity in their scope and purpose
in almost all the States. Again, other statutes somewhat
less important and fundamental in character exist in groups
of States. Such statutes as these may be profitably studied
in class, in connection with the common law; but it would
be worse than useless for a student to attempt to investigate
and study the mazes of statutory differences in the several
States. Hence, it is suggested as advisable for each of the
Senior and Postgraduate students to procure and have with
him for independent study when he comes in September a
copy of the revised statutes of his State or of the State in
which he intends to practice.
GRADUATES
of the Law Department have met with exceptional success,
it has been noted, in passing examinations for admission to
the bar. Nevertheless, it may be in point to state that it
ought hereafter to be comparatively easy for them to meet
the requirements of the severest tests in that line, in view
of the increase in the number of daily recitations and the
lengthening of the period of instruction. By way of show-
ing the full accord and co-operation of the Faculty in that
regard with the bar and the bench of the country, attention
may be drawn to the following authoritative expression on
154	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the subject, which is embodied in a resolution passed by the
American Bar Association in 1897:
“Resolved, That the American Bar Association approves the
lengthening of the course of instruction in law schools to a period of
three years, and that it expresses the hope that as soon as practicable
a rule may be adopted in each State, which will require candidates
for admission to the bar to study law for three years before applying
for admission.”
It would certainly be disappointing now to meet a gradu-
ate timid at the prospect of an examination. With the
right spirit and proper training, he ought to face it cheer-
fully and unhesitatingly. Those who perform faithfully the
work assigned to them need have no fear of failure.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds it meetings on Saturday evenings. All students of
the Department are members of it. They are required, each
in his turn, to participate in its debates and other exercises.
The debates commonly deal with questions germane to the
law. But subjects of history, political economy, and
the like, are also in favor. An excellent opportunity is
afforded at the meetings of the society to develop skill, power
and fluency in public speaking. The graces of the elocu-
tionist and the persuasive powers of the orator may here be
cultivated and improved. All can increase in force and
fluency of thought and expression by attending regularly
and participating in the exercises of this society. Officers
are elected twice yearly by the students themselves. They
select also a competent critic to note the mistakes made in
pronunciation or otherwise by the speakers at each meeting,
and to read a carefully prepared paper correcting the same
at the meeting following. A Professor presides, aids the
members with his counsel and suggestions, and decides the ■
questions under discussion on the merits of the arguments.
A parliamentary law meeting, with exercises in elocution
and debating, takes place each Wednesday afternoon.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
155
THE LAW LIBRARY
adjoins and communicates directly with the Lecture Room,
in Sorin Hall. Students have uninterrupted access to it at
all reasonable hours. They may frequent it as often as they
choose for the purpose of studying cases, preparing for moot
court trials, finding authorities for their monthly theses,
referring to the cases cited in the text-books and lectures,
or reading the standard treatises. Every decision rendered
for many years by the State, Territorial and Federal courts
may here be found. Consequently, not to repeat other
reasons already stated, students are not required to pur-
chase as many law books as they are obliged to have in other
places. The books in the Library may be used by the law
students in common as freely as can reasonably be wished,
and without charge. The same is true in respect to the vast
collection of miscellaneous books in the Lemonnier Library.
Law books may be taken from the Library to the Lecture
Room for use in moot court trials, but must afterward be
returned. All’ students have an equal right to use them,
being as it were tenants in common in that regard; but any
disposition to invade the common right, whether through
selfishness or thoughtlessness, by attempting to make exclu-
sive use of them, as in placing them under cover in desks or
taking them to private rooms, must be vigilantly guarded
against and impartially discountenanced. Students have
an undoubted right to expect that when they need any par-
ticular book they can find it in the Library, and not be com-
pelled to lose valuable time in making inquiry or searching
for it elsewhere.
No discrimination is .made between law students and
students of the regular collegiate courses in the matter of
156
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
• EXPENSES.
The fee for tuition, board, lodging, washing, mending,
etc., is fixed at $400 for the scholastic year. This covers
all necessaries, and, considering the excellent accommo-
dations at Notre Dame, is believed to be very reasonable. It
is said that students elsewhere must pay from $450 tq^ $500
a year for like services and accommodations. The cost of
books may be estimated approximately at $7 for the first
year and $30 each for the second and third years. Students
have but little occasion or opportunity to spend money or to
cultivate expensive habits; for they study, board and lodge
at the University—in an atmosphere favorable to earnest
work, and quite apart from the associations and temptations
incident to city life. Terms of payment and other pertinent
information may be found elsewhere in this catalogue, under
the general caption “Expenses.” It may, perhaps, be well
to anticipate possible inquiries by stating that no additional
charge is made for attending or becoming students of classes
in the collegiate courses.
DISCIPLINE.
The Law students, as well as all others, are expected to
be earnest and industrious in the performance of the duties
devolving upon them, and to secure this end and the fullest
possible utilization of time the same rules of discipline apply
to all the students. These rules require promptitude and
regularity in class attendance, uprightness in conduct and
manliness in deportment. Obedience to them tends to
strengthen character, establish wholesome habits and nourish
in heart and mind the qualities that mark the true gentleman
and persevering scholar, the honored citizen and successful
lawyer, the independent thinker and firm believer in the
illimitable possibilities of industry, perseverance and self-
reliance to win the crown of illustrious achievements in the
domain of life.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
157
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
This course can be completed in two years. It includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United
States history, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-
keeping, Commercial Law—in other words, all the branches
of a complete business education.
When the character and needs of the country are consid-
ered, this course will appear the most practical, and one of
the most important that an educational institution can offer.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to take
a complete college course in the Classics or Sciences, would
do well to enroll themselves in the Commercial Course. No
plan of study is more injudicious than a haphazard selection
of such studies as an inexperienced young man may fancy.
The training resulting from a fixed course of studies is of
the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always re-
ceived the most careful attention from the officers and the
Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims to give the grad-
uates of this course a more complete business training than
can be obtained in any purely commercial college. Believ-
ing that a business education includes something more than
a mere knowledge of book-keeping, and that a good educa-
tion cannot be obtained in a few weeks, the authorities have
extended this course over two years—the shortest time in
158
UNIVEBSITY OF NOTEE DAME.
which studies necessarily used in business life can be
mastered. Should a pupil desire during this period to pur-
sue any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so.
General History and Linear Drawing are especially
recommended to students of this department. They also
have an opportunity of attending an elementary course of
the Physical and Natural Sciences. Many students find
it also to their advantage to keep up the study of German or
French, for which there are the amplest facilities. A tal-
ented and studious young man may thus in the course of
two years find himself in the possession of a most valuable
practical education, which will fit him to take his place in
the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
i.	Arithmetic—Written and Mental—To Decimal
Fractions (exclusive). Normal Union Arithmetic, Brooks.
2.	Grammar—To Irregular Verbs (inclusive). Re-
vised English Grammar.
3.	Letter Writing.
4.	Reading and Orthography.
5.	Geography—General Geography of the World;
Special Geography of the United States.
6.	United States History—Through the French and
Indian War, Anderson.
7.	Penmanship.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	159
SECOND TERM.
i.	Arithmetic—Decimal Fractions; Denominate Num-
bers ; Practical Measurements. Normal Union Arithme-
tic, Brooks.
2.	Grammar—From Irregular Verbs to Syntax. Re-
vised English Grammar.
3.	Letter Writing.
4.	Reading and Orthography.
5.	Geography—Special Geography of South America,
Europe, Asia, and Africa.
6.	United States History—From the French and
Indian War to the present time, Anderson.
7.	Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
1.	Arithmetic—Percentage; Ratio and Proportion; as
far as Involution and Evolution. Normal Union Arithme-
tic, Brooks.
2.	Bookkeeping—Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions ; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry; Retailing by Double
Entry; special practice in writing Business Paper and Busi-
ness Forms. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and
Rogers.
3.	Grammar—Syntax. Revised English Grammar.
4.	Letter Writing.
5.	Reading and Orthography.
6.	Penmanship.
160
UNIVEBSITY OF XOTEE DAME.
SECOND TERM.
i.	Arithmetic—Percentage, Ratio and Proportion (re-
viewed) ; Involution and Evolution; Arithmetical and
Geometrical Series; Higher Percentage; Mensuration;
Arithmetical Analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks.
2.	Bookkeeping—Single Entry, changing Single to
Double Entry; Retailing; Wholesaling; Shipping and Com-
mission; Jobbing; Manufacturing; Installment and State
Agencies; Joint Stock Companies; Banking; Railroading;
Steamboating; Buying and Selling, Remitting, Collecting,
Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of Exchange.
New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and Rogers.
3.	Composition—Study of the Theory of English
Composition; frequent exercise in Essay and Letter Writ-
ing, etc. The Foundations of Rhetoric.
4.	Orthography.
5.	Commercial Lav/—General principles of Contracts;
Agency; Partnership; Corporations; Guaranty; Sale of
Goods : Negotiable Paper. Richardson.
6.	Penmanship.
Preparatory Department*
9
162
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
For the Classical, English and Economic Courses.
- [For description of courses see pages 165-176. ]
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Tebm.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
Latin, - - -	5	A	Latin, - - -	5	A
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
History, - -	3	A	History, - .	3	A
Mathematics,	5	A	Mathematics,	5	B
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	3	D
SECOND YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	B	Latin, - - -	5	B
Greek, - - -	4	A	Greek, - - -	4	A
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
History, - -	3	B	History, - -	3	B
Mathematics,	5	0	Mathematics,	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	C	Latin, - - -	5	C
Greek, - - -	4	B	Greek, - - -	4	B
English, - -	5	0	English, - -	5	C
History, - -	3	0	History, - -	3	0
Mathematics,	5	E	Science, - -	3	c
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	D	Latin, - - -	5	D
Greek, - - -	4	C	Greek, -	-	4	C
English, - -	4	D	English, - -	4	D
Ger. or French,	5		Ger. or French,	5	
Science, - -	5	F	Science, ' - -	5	E
Students in the English and Economic Courses will begin German or French
in the second year instead of Greek and continue it during the two remaining years.
Students that begin French in the second year will take up German in the
fourth year. Students that begin German in the second year will take up French
in the fourth year. Classical Students will begin French or German in the
fourth year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
163
For the Biological and General Science Courses*
[For description of courses see pages 165-176.] -
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
Mathematics,	5	A	Mathematics,	5	B
Latin, - - -	5	A	Latin, - - -	5	A
Drawing, - -	3	A	Drawing, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	A	Science, - -	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
Mathematics,	5	0	Mathematics,	5	D
History, - -	3	A	History, - -	3	A
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	5	C
Latin, - - -	5	B	Latin, - - -	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	C
Mathematics,	5	E	Mathematics,	5	F
German, - -	5	A	German, - -	5	A
Science, - -	5	E	Science, - -	5	E
History, - -	3	B	History, - -	3	B
FOURTH YEAR.
English, - -	5	D	English, - -	5	D
German, - -	3	B	German, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	F	Science, - -	5	F
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
History, - -	3	C	History, - -	3	0
Civil Goverm’t	2	A	Civil Goverm’t	2	A
General Science Students will take Trigonometry in the fourth year instead of
Civil Government.
Biological Students will take four hours of Drawing in the second term of the
third year instead of Mathematics F.
164
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
For the Engineering; Courses*
[For description of courses see pages 165-176.]
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
Mathematics,	5	A	Mathematics,	5	B
History, - -	3	A	History, - -	3	A
Science, - -	5	A	Science, - -	5	D
Drawing, - -	3	A	Drawing, - -	3	B
SECOND YEAR.
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
Mathematics,	5	C	Mathemaiics,	5	D
History, - -	3	B	History, - -	8	B
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	5	C
Civil Goverm’t	2	A	Civil Goverm’t	2	A
THIRD YEAR.
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	C
Mathematics,	5	E	Mathematics,	5	F
German, - -	5	A	German, - -	5	A
Science, - -	5	E	Science, - -	5	E
History, - -	3	C	History, - -	3	C
FOURTH YEAR.
English, - -	5	' D	English, - -	5	D
Mathematics,	5	G	Mathematics,	5	H
German, - -	3	B	German, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	F	Science, - -	5	F
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
TJNIVEBSITY OF XOTRE DAME.
165
PREPARATORY COURSE.
COURSES IN LATIN.
A.
Grammar—Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises—Rudiments of Latin, Reynolds.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
B.
Grammar—Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar—Books I.—IV.; or, Junior Latin Book.
Prose Composition—Based on Caesar.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
C.
Grammar—Syntax, Bennett.
Nepos—Selected Lives.
Sallust—Catiline.
Cicero—Orations I—III, Against Catiline.
Prose Composition—Based on Authors read.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
D.
Grammar—Complete Review.
Cicero— Three Orations, including Pro Lege Manilia.
Vergil—Aeneid, Six Books. The explanations cover
peculiarities of Syntax, Figures, Mythology.
Prosody—Study of Hexameter Verse.
Prose Composition—Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
166	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN GREEK.
A.
Grammar—Etymology, Goodwin.
Exercises—First Greek Book, White.
Epitome of the New Testament—Part I., Stoffel.
[Four hours a zveek for one year.}
B.
Grammar—Etymology Reviewed, Syntax, Goodwin/
Xenophon—Anabasis, Four Books.
Prose Composition—Based on Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament—Part II., Stoffel.
[Four hours a zveek for one year.}
C.
Grammar—Syntax, Goodwin.
Xenophon—Memorabilia, or Hellenica.
Prose Composition.
Homer—Iliad, Six Books. Homeric language and
verse. Grammatical explanations.
Epitome of the New Testament—Part III., Stoffel.
[Four hours a week for one year.}
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
A.
(a)	Meiklejohn’s Art of Writing English, with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The elements of versification. Scansion, one
hour a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Mem-
ory work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
167
(c)	Required reading: Poe’s Poems, Evangeline, Fior-
etti, Snow-Bound, The Vision of Sir Launfal, Ancient Ma-
riner, The Sketch Book, Robinson Crusoe, Poe’s Tales,
Treasure Island, The Merchant of Venice, Julius Caesar.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one year.}
B.
(a)	Hill’s Principles- of Rhetoric. Part L, with daily &
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The simpler verse-forms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: The Lady of the Lake, Silas
Marner, The Princess, The Flight of the Tartar Tribes, The
Courtship of Miles Standish, Ivanhoe, As You Like It, Mac-
beth.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one year.}
C.
(a)	Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with daily
exercises in class. Fortnightly theme.
(b)	Verse-forms continued. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.	'
(c)	Required reading: The Golden Treasury of English
Lyrics, Milton’s Minor Poems, Macaulay’s Essay on Milton,
Sir Roger de Coverley, Macaulay’s Essay on Addison,
Burke’s Speech on the Conciliation of America, Webster’s
Bunker Hill Oration, Lincoln’s Gettysburg Oration, A Mid-
summer Night's Dream, King Lear.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
the teacher.)	„
[Five hours a week for one year.} •
168
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
D.
(a)	Genung’s The Working Principles of Rhetoric, Part
I., with daily exercises in class. Monthly essay.
(b)	Verse-forms concluded. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c)	Required reading: Selections from Paradise Lost,
Cary’s Dante and Pope’s Homer, The Idylls of the King,
The Dream of Gerontius, Aubrey de Vere’s Poems, The
Tempest, Hamlet, Gates’ Selections' from Newman, The
House of the Seven Gables.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Four hours a week for one year.}
COURSES IN’HISTORY.
A.
Ancient History—Fisher’s Outlines of Universal His-
tory. The Oriental Nations. The History of Greece and of
the Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The Es-
tablishment of the Empire, and the rise of Christianity.
[Three hours a week for one year.}
-	B.
Mediaeval History—Fisher’s Outlines. The Barbarians
and their Kingdoms. Mahommedanism and the Saracen
Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire. The Invasion of the
Northmen and the Magyars. The Empire and the Papacy.
The Crusades. The Great Schism and the rise of the nations
of Modem Europe.
[ Three hours a week for one year. ]
0
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	169
c.
Modern History—Fisher’s Outlines. The Renaissance.
The Age of Discovery. The Protestant Reformation. The
Power of Spain. The Strifes of France with Spain and
Germany. The age of Louis XVI., and the rise of Russia. The
Spanish and Austrian Successions. The Empire of England.
The American Revolution. The French Revolution and the
Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the Spirit of
Nationality. The Formation of Germany and Italy.
[Three hours a week for one year.}
COURSE IN CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
A.
. This is a study of the science of government in connec-
tion with American institutions, and is intended to give
the student some knowledge of the general principles of
government and of the American Constitution. The sub-
ject begins by defining government; then is considered
the object and necessity of government; origin of civil
society; the principle of suffrage; different forms of gov-
ernment defined and compared; theories of representa-
tion. These topics necessarily are treated briefly, as the
principal part of the course consists of a study of the
Colonial governments, the Articles of Confederation and
their defects, the formation of the Constitution and its
adoption. Now the study comprises a critical analysis of
each article and section of the American Constitution,
thus enabling the student to acquire a clear conception
of the division of powers of the National Government and
the duties and responsibilities of each department.
[Two hours a zveek for one year.]
170
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN MATHEMATICS.
A.
Algebra—This course for beginners in Algebra in-
cludes a study of the primary fundamental principles nec-
essary to the courses which follow. The subjects dwelt
upon in particular are Factoring, Highest Common Fac-
tor and Least Common Multiple, which are afterward
applied in their relation to Fractions and the reduction
of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible, concrete
examples of their applications to kindred scientific sub-
jects are supplied by the teacher.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Algebra—In this course the study of Equations is be-
gun and continued through equations of the first degree.
Fractional Equations, Systems of Simultaneous Equa-
tions, Involution, Evolution, Radicals and Exponents
complete the course which is supplemented wherever
possible with problems of practical application.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Algebra—This course begins with Quadratic Equa-
tions, Pure and Affected, followed by Systems of Simul-
taneous Quadratic Equations and those forms of Radical
Equations of Higher Degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and Proportion, Indetermin-
ate Equations, Surds, Imaginaries, Inequalities, the Pro-
gressions and the Binomial Theorem finish the work in
this course. As in the preceding courses, special stress
is placed upon the application of the theory to such ex-
amples as will show its application to elementary scien-
tific subjects.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTEE DAME.	171
D.
Geometry—This subject is completed as far as the end
of Plane Geometry and includes a study of the theorems
with proofs of exercises and original propositions. The
habit of independent thinking is cultivated to some extent
by the solution of special problems of a concrete nature
intended to exhibit the relation of the processes studied
to practical examples.
[Five hours a zveek for one term.}
Geometry—The study of Solid Geometry is taken up in
this term, the course being an extension of that of the
preceding term. Planes, Solid Angles, Polyhedrons, the
Cylinder, Cone and Sphere are all studied in detail and
the solution of original exercises and propositions of ap-
plication is made a feature of the course.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Algebra and Geometry—This course which continues
through one scholastic year is designed especially for
those students who wish to take up the study of Engi-
neering. As this necessitates a thorough groundwork in
mathematics the first half of the year is given to a review
of Algebra and Geometry, three hours and two hours per
week respectively. The most important theorems and
subjects are again studied and a more comprehensive
view of the subject is attained in the generalizing of
many theorems and extending the range of others.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Algebra and Geometry—The work of this term is en-
tirely given up to an elementary exposition of the appli-
172
UNWEBSITY OF NOTBE DAME.
cation of mathematics to scientific problems and to analy-
sis. In lectures and class work actual problems repre-
senting existing and practical conditions will be taken
up, and the derivation of approximate formulae and an
elementary study of curves derived from experiment are
included.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
H.
Trigonometry—A half year is given to this subject
which includes both Plane and Spherical Trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
elementary text books. Special attention is given to
Goniometry on account of its application to Calculus, and
examples of a concrete nature are abundantly supplied.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
COURSES IN SCIENCE.
A.
Physical Geography—An introductory and elementary
study of the earth and its environments. The student
will be led into a closer sympathy with the world about
him. The various types of plant and animal life together
with topographical and climatic conditions will be con-
sidered.
[Five hours a week for one term.}
B.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and demonstrations
with the stereopticon. The study of the human skeleton
including the physiology and hygiene of the bones. The
action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles. The
digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demonstrat-
0
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	173
ed by models and charts. The anatomy and structure of
the nervous system and simple experiments on the same.
Text-book, Martin.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Elementary Botany—A course for beginners in this
subject; it includes a study of the higher plants with ref-
erence to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and seed.
An introduction to the lower forms of plant life and their
classification is also given. Text-book, Bastin’s Elements
of Botany.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
D.
Elementary Zoology—Includes an introduction to the
subject with studies of representative forms and their
classification in the different groups of the animal king-
dom. The subject is taught by recitations ancl laboratory
work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
* [Three hours a week for one term.]
(a)	Elementary Chemistry—An Introductory Course
of experimental lectures on familiar subjects such as
water, the air and its constituents, common salt, etc., lead-
ing up to discussions of the more important elements and
their properties, and the fundamental laws and phenom-
ena of Chemistry. Reference-book, Remsen.
(b)	Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course (a). A series of exercises to be per-
formed by each student, and having as their main object
the cultivation of the student’s powers of observation and
faculty of inductive reasoning. These exercises comprise
174
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
a study of the principal metallic elements, including their
preparation, properties and more familiar compounds.
The directions for each experiment are made as brief as
possible, the observation of facts and the drawing of cor-
rect conclusions therefrom being left, so far as the nature
of the experiment will permit, to the pupil.
F. *
A
Elementary Physics—A course of recitations and lec-
tures, including Mechanics, Heat, Sound, Light, Electricity
and Magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experi- ■
ments.
* For the Preparatory School of Arts and Letters this course is
five hours a week for one term. In the other preparatory schools this
course is five hours a week for one year.
G.
Astronomy-Descriptive—This course is intended to
give students as much knowledge of astronomical facts
as can be obtained with only an elementary training in
mathematics. The study consists of a description of the
earth; its form, size, density and motion; a study of the
moon and her motions; the sun and* its relation to the
earth; an account of eclipses, refraction and aberration of
light. A description of the planets, their distances, di-
mensions and physical conditions; a study of parallax,
diurnal and annual; an account of meteors and comets.
A study of the stars and constellations; instruction is
given to enable students to name and locate the more
prominent. The subject of Cosmogony is considered
briefly as well as an explanation of the different systems
of Astronomy. The subject is given both by lectures
and text-book.43
[Two hours a week for one year.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
175
COURSES IN FRENCH.
A.
Houghton’s French by reading. Un Cas de Conscience.
Super’s Reading from French History.
[Five hours a week for one year.}
B.
*
French Composition. L’Avare. Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon. Le Roi des Montagnes. Zola3s Le Reve. Picciola.
[Three hours a week for one year.}
C.
La Poud,re aux Yeux. Athaiie. Hemani. Les Confes-
sions d3un Ouvrier. Le Barbier de Seville. Le Malade
Imaginaire. Les Fourberies de Scapin. Pourceaugnac. Les
Facheux. L3Amour Medecin. Le Misanthrope. Cinna.
Polyeucte.
[Two hours a week for one year.}
COURSES IN GERMAN.
A.
Grammar—Joynes-Meissner. Deutsches Lesebuch, Bone.
Themes—Original and imitative work.
[Five hours a week for one year.}
B.
Special Course for students in the English and Scien-
tific Courses.
Grammar—Joynes-M eissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Three hours a week for one year.}
176
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
c.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Tw hours a zveek for one year.}
£
COURSES IN DRAWING.
A.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of various
forms.
[Three hours a zveek for one Term.]
B.
Advanced work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster casts of flowers and suitable ornaments which
afford the study of light and shade.
[Three hours a week for one Term.]
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK.
The studies of the Preparatory Department here out-
lined are equivalent to those of a High School. There is
also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are
taught all the branches of a Grammar School, and
students have every opportunity of preparing themselves
as rapidly as possible for High School and collegiate
work.-
I
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	177
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
For the care and training of boys under the age of thir-
teen years, there has been established a department to which
the most scrupulous attention has always been paid by the
college authorities: it is known as the Minim Department.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the ele-
mentary branches of an English education is here imparted,
together with a rudimentary knowledge of Latin, French
and German. Vocal Music and Drawing involve no extra
charge. The pupils of this department are taught by Sisters
of the Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day: Rising at 6140 a. m.,
toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a short
time given for exercise on the campus; half-past seven,
study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, study; a quarter to
twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by recreation; half-
past one, study; half-past three, recreation and luncheon;
half-past six, supper and recreation; half-past eight, retiring.
From this it may be seen that while the Minims devote less
than six hours a day to study, they are never more than
two hours in succession in the class-room. The recreation
and exercise in the fresh air after each two' hours of
study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to
their classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the hours
of recreation as well as in the class-room and the study-
hall. The presence, however, of the prefect is far from
being a restraint on the amusement of the boys; for while it
178
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
is the duty of the prefects to insist that their young charges
shall always keep within the limits, of the strictest propriety,
they, at the same time,.take part in all sports, organize
games, and do everything in their power to foster the love
of exercise. The play-ground is a broad, level, five-acre
field, well supplied with turning poles, swings, ladders, rings,
parallel-bars, and all other necessary gymnastic apparatus.
That the boys make good use of them can be seen from their
healthy, happy appearance, which invariably attracts the
notice of visitors. Connected with the play-ground is a
brick play-hall, 160 feet long and heated by steam. In this
hall the boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend the
clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and con-
venience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few days.
Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care is taken
that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the clothing be
suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES.
There are two societies in the Minim department; that of
the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its
object to supply servers for the Church offices; and the Sorin
Association, which has been established with a view to give
the pupils a start, as early as possible, in elocution. The
society is presided over by one of the professors, who finds it
a pleasant duty to draw out the talent of these interesting
young orators. Meetings are held once a week, after school
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well as
of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only the
best behaved and more advanced in studies are admitted to
membership. To encourage this young Literary Society, a
Gold Medal for Elocution is annually awarded at Commence-
ment to the most deserving member.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	179
GENERAL REMARKS.
The discipline to which the minims are subjected is much
milder than that which is suited to students more advanced
in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punishment. Those
in charge endeavor to govern by kindness and gentleness,
and by appealing to the boys’ sense of honor. The names
of all whose conduct and application to studies are satis-
factory appear under the heads of Roll of Honor and Class
Honors. To find his name mentioned in these rolls, is found
to be as great a reward for the deserving pupil, as its non-
’ appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, too, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to those whose deportment has been unex-
ceptionable during that period. As this fact is made known
to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he generally
endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to receiving an
“Honor.” The greatest care is taken to form their young
hearts to habits of virtue, and to inculcate the practice of
refined manners. Every effort is made to foster respect and
affection for parents, to whom they are expected to write at
least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims, is
their complete separation from the larger students. A com-
modious building known as St. Edward’s Hall, affording
ample accommodations for over one hundred pupils, is
devoted to their use. It is four stories in height, one hun-
dred and fifty feet long, and forty-five feet wide; heated by
steam, supplied throughout with the Edison incandescent
electric light, and provided with hot and cold water. The
ceilings in the Study-Hall, Class-Rooms and sleeping apart-
ments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large and
numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The
Study-Hall commands a charming view from each of its
180
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated with
statuary, pictures, plants, etc. Beside the pleasure the
Minims derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall,
their tastes are cultured by coming in contact with objects so
refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park, which,
with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not a little to
the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall as well as to the happiness
of its inmates.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents
and others who frequently write for more detailed informa-
tion, will show that, while the Minims have every advantage
to aid them in acquiring a foundation for future study, they
have a home, where they enjoy the same ease and freedom
that they would enjoy under the care of their mothers.
UNWEBSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
181
EXPENSES MINIM DEPARTMENT.
Matriculation Fee (First year only).......$	10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and
Bedding, etc., per session of nearly ten months, 250.00
Payable in Advance, as follows:
First Payment : On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee.................................$ 10.00
Board and Tuition................................. 150.00v
Deposit on Book and Stationery	Account............ 5.00
Gymnasium ......................................... 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course......................... 1.00
Music (optional). For rates see below.
Second Payment: On January 15th:
Balance on Board and Tuition..................$100.00
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons,
and the use of instrument in this department is $35.00;
for Violin, Guitar or Mandolin, $25.00.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40.00.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if
not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of
underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handkerchiefs,
six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or caps, two pairs
of shoes, a pair of rubbers, three suits of clothes, an over-
coat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap, and a hand mirror. This
direction concerning clothing is a suggestion, not a regula-
tion. Any of the above supplies can be procured through
the Students’ Office at the University.
182
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
From September, 1902, to June 1, 1903.
& £
In this list are not included the names of those students
who were dismissed or withdrawn at the request of the
College authorities during the scholastic year.
Illinois.
Peru, South America.
Mexico.
Santo Domingo, W. I.
Ohio.
Antoine, Laurence M....................
Arana, Victor M........................
Allende, Francisco.....................
Alberti, Jose A........................
Anderson, Robert E.....................
Barry, Francis J.......................  Illinois.
Battle, Evaristo R........................Spain.
Battle, Jose J............................Spain.
Best, Louis E.............................Wisconsin.
Burke, Francis P
Baer, Frederick L
Bailey, Francis P
Bailey, John J...
Barker, Fred C..
.Wisconsin.
.Pennsylvania
. Indiana.
.Indiana.
.Minnesota.
Barry, Arthur J...........................Illinois.
Becker, Alphonse M........................Minnesota.
Boscowitz, Hostilio N.....................Cuba.
Brent, Francis C........................Florida.
Briscoe, Robert W.......................Illinois.
Browne, Paul M..........................Indiana.
Burns, Raymond J........................Pennsylvania.
Butler, Philip V........................Nova Scotia.
Bach, James H...........................Missouri.
Baker, Clarence F.......................Michigan.
Barrett, James A........................Michigan.
Beacom, Patrick A.......................Iowa.
Beechinor, Herbert M....................New York.
Beeehinor, Howard F.....................New York.
Bergan, James M.........................Hlinois.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
183
Bilsland, Henry K
Borja, Camilo....
Bradley, Wm. R..
Indiana.
Ecuador, South America,
Illinois.
Burgett, Asero...........................Illinois.
Byers, Clifford W........................Indiana.
Baillargeon, Gebert J....................Washington.
Baillargeon, John A......................Washington.
Baker, Howard S..........................Michigan.
Bastar, S. Clifford......................Michigan.
Bastar, Wm. S.............................Michigan.
Beers, Herbert A.........................Ohio.
Benson, Richard R.......................Illinois,
Berggren, Henry R.......................Nebraska.
Berteling, John F.......................Indiana.
Bosler, Wm. N...........................Kentucky.
Bosworth, Alvah C.......................Illinois.
Branen, Charles J.....................B.	C., Canada.
Brooks, Butler L..........................Missouri.
Brooks, Harold A..........................Michigan.
Brown, Arthur A...........................Indiana.
Bassett, Royal O..........................Indiana.
Baude, Francis H.........................Illinois.
Boyd, Linn..............................Kentucky.
Branen, James H.........................Illinois.
Branen, Charles E.......................Illinois.
Brennan, Francis........................Pennsylvania.
Brennan, Joseph.........................Pennsylvania.
Brinkmann, Clemens U. F.................Illinois.
Bromberg, Louis.......................Illinois.
Bromberg, George......................Illinois.
Brown, Edward P.......................Minnesota.
Brown, Maurice J......................Minnesota.
Brown, Vincent J......................Minnesota.
Boyle, Joseph J..........................Iowa.
Burke, Joseph H..........................Wisconsin.
Burke, Eugene P..........................Illinois.
Burke, Thomas E..........................Illinois.
Baczkowski, Frank S.....................Indiana.
Bolger, Wm. A............................Michigan.
Buenger, George A........................Ohio.
Barry, Wm. J.............................Iowa.
Beriault, Arthur J.......................Indiana.
184
UNIVERSITY 01? NOTRE DAME.
Brooder, John M.......
Burns, Edward C. M..
Carey, Louis J........
Clarke, Robert R.. ..
Collins, Edward D. . . .
Conbov, Charles P. . .
Conboy, Erancis J....
Crumley, Harry V.. ..
Cullinan, Joseph J. . .
Campbell, John C. . . .
Canedo, Ignacio........
Canedo, Enrique 0. . .
Cano, Florencio........
Cano, Ignacio..........
Carrigan, Joseph F. . .
Christie, Gordon J. . .
Cleary, James T........
Corbett, Vincent.......
Cahill, Thomas H.......
Cain, Clement P........
Campbell, Matthew A.
Carroll, Charles.......
Cary, Howard C.........
Cary, Clarence C.......
’Casey, James M........
Celis, Jose M..........
Chassaing, Edward J.
Cogan, Bernard J. . . .
Connell, Stanley B. . .
Conrow, Grover R. . . .
Coughlin, John A....
Craig, Leo F..........
Cullinan, Charles J...
Carraher, Mortimer B
Callico, James.........
Casey, Groves F........
Clapp, William M. . ..
Clarke, Matthew G...
Cole, Charles E........
Cressy, Thornton A. .
.. .Pennsylvania.
.. Connecticut.
.. .Michigan.
.. .Illinois.
. .Massachusetts.
. ..Indiana.
. . Indiana.
.. Ohio.
. . .Indiana.
.. .Missouri.
.. .Mexico.
. . .Mexico.
.. .Yucatan, Mexico.
.. .Yucatan, Mexico.
. . California.
.. .Minnesota.
. .Nebraska.
.. .Michigan.
.. Illinois.
. .Illinois.
. .West Virginia.
. . .Michigan.
. .Illinois.
. . .Illinois.
. .Indiana.
. . .Mexico.
.. .Missouri.
.. .Illinois.
. . Ohio.
. .Illinois.
. . .Illinois.
.. .South Dakota.
. .Pennsylvania.
. ..Washington.
. . Cuba.
. ..Illinois.
. ..Indiana.
.. .Indiana.
. . .Tennessee.
. ..Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
185
Cullinan, Daniel A.......................Pennsylvania.
Carette, Arnold E........................Illinois.
Cartier, Antoine.........................Michigan.
Coleman, Edward W........................Illinois.
Conklin, Roscoe..........................Illinois.
Commack, J. Ward.........................Indiana.
Connolly, Edward J.......................Illinois.
Connolly, Cassius H......................Illinois.
Connolly, Raymond C......................Illinois.
Conover, Huntington St. Clair............Illinois.
Cornelius, George B......................Kentucky.
Cotter, William..........................Illinois.
Creveling, Hayden' T. J..................Missouri.
Crounse, Lorenzo.........................Nebraska.
Carrico, J. Leonard......................Kentucky.
Collier, Wm. E...........................Canada.
Corbett, Janies J........................Illinois.
Corcoran, Joseph B.......................Illinois.
Corcoran, Wendell P......................Illinois.
Cunningham, Wm. F........................Illinois.
Curran, John W...........................Kentucky.
Cannon, Dominic J........................Pennsylvania.
Callicrate, Dominic L....................Indiana.
Casey, Charles W.........................Missouri.
Cody, Charles N..........................Wisconsin.
Corbett, Stephen A.......................Wisconsin.
Crotty, Robert E.........................Illinois.
Cunningham, Janies V.....................Illinois.
Daly, Bernard M..........................Ohio.
Dukette, Francis F.............•.........Michigan.
J	o
Daly, Walter M...........................South Dakota.
Davitt. Harold H.........................Michigan.
f	o
Delgado, Salvador P......................Mexico.
Dillon, Daniel C.........................Pennsylvania.
Dinnen, J. Francis.......................Indiana.
Doar, James L............................Wisconsin.
Donnelly, Thomas L. K....................Michigan.
Dubbs, John W............................Illinois.
Dubbs, James A...........................Illinois.
Dwan, Leo J..............................North Dakota.
186
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Dannemiller, Robert J..................Ohio.
Darragh, Albert M......................Louisiana.
Darragh, C. Leonard....................Louisiana.
Darragh, Fred E........................Louisiana.
Davis, Grover C........................Indiana.
DeLone, Louis S.......................... Pennsylvania.
DeLone, Joseph M.......................Pennsylvania.
Dempsey, Neal E........................Michigan.
Diebold, Howard J......................Pennsylvania.
Dougherty, J. Emmett...................North Dakota.
Dailey, George R.......................New York.
Davey, Frank P.........................Michigan.
Dechant, Wm. E.........................Ohio.
Desmond, Wm. W.........................Illinois.
Diskin, Michael A......................Pennsylvania.
Dolan, James E.........................Pennsylvania.
Donovan, Wm. J.........................South Dakota.
Doran, Christopher J...................New Jersey.
Doyle, Earl P..........................Wisconsin.
Draper, Wm. A..........................Illinois.
Dunn, Clarence H.......................Indiana.
Dunnington, Rex W......................Missouri.
Duttle, George V.......................Iowa.
Dunlevy, James.........................South Dakota.
Dwan, Aloysius J.......................North Dakota.
Daschbach, Raymond J.... I.............Pennsylvania.
Daschbach, Herbert L...................Pennsylvania.
Dolan, Francis J.......................Massachusetts.
Donahoe, Henry D.......................Illinois.
Dosenbach, Benjamin H..................Missouri.
Dougherty, Lawrence V..................Colorado.
Dunnebecke, Hugo G.....................Illinois.
Dunnebeeke, Joseph.....................Illinois.
DuBrul, Clarence J.....................Ohio.
Dean, John F...........................Illinois.
Dinan, Robert L........................Indiana.
Dunfee, Calvin L.......................Illinois.
Dunham, Donald H.......................Illinois.
Davis, Ernest A........................Indiana.
D« Wulf, Emiel P.......................Indiana.
Durcan, Patrick.........................Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF N0TEE DA JIE.
187
Devine, James.............................Michigan.
Donahue, Wesley J......................Illinois.
Donahoe, Leo A............................Michigan.
Donnelly, Thomas V........................Texas.
Dvoracek, Rudolf........................Bohemia,	Europe.
Enriquez, Benjamin R..................Mexico.
Emmel, John G......................  Minnesota.
Emerson, William J....................Alaska.
Erdelen, G. Joseph....................Missouri.
Edelen, Richard M.....................Kentucky.
Ehrenfeld, Charles A..................Pennsylvania.
Ehrmann, Frank P......................Ohio.
Erdman, John 0........................Kentucky.
Esquino, Enrique......................Mexico.
Esquino, Manuel.......................Mexico.
Esquino, Salvador.....................Mexico.
Eustace, Arthur B.....................Illinois.
Ehrke, Frederick R....................Michigan.
Eyke, Clinton W.......................Michigan.
Emery, Robert T.......................Michigan.
Pack, Fred R. .. .......................Montana.
Fahey, Bernard S.......................Georgia.
Fahey, Joseph A........................Georgia.
Farabaugh, Gallitzen A.................Pennsylvania.
Fetherston, Louis M....................Iowa.
Furlong, Nicholas R....................Wisconsin.
Farragher, John........................Ohio.
Fansler, Michael L.....................Indiana.
Farrell, Francis T.....................Illinois.
Feeney, Joseph D.......................Minnesota.
Fernandez, Bernardo I..................Cuba.
Fisher, Robert W.......................Indiana.
Flaherty, James J......................Illinois.
Fox, Oscar A...........................Indiana.
Franchere, John........................Iowa.
Funk, Arthur S.........................Wisconsin.
Falvey, Mark D.........................Indiana.
Fehan, James P.........................New York.
Fitzgibbon, John J.....................Illinois.
Fleming, Shirley J.....................Ohio.
188
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA1IE.
Foster, James M........................Pennsylvania.
Freeman, Noel D........................Indiana.
Frost, Wm. B...........................Kentucky.
Fink, Albert H.......,.................Illinois.
Fisher, Harold P. . . .................Kentucky.
Floyd-Jones, Shorb C...................Missouri.
Fox, John McD..........................Wisconsin.
Fox, Mark H..........................-...Wisconsin.
Freudenstein, Benjamin...................Mexico.
Farrell, Howard F........................Nebraska.
Nebraska.
Nebraska.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Missouri.
Ohio.
Indian Territory.
New Jersey.
New York.
Illinois.
Canada.
Canada.
Wisconsin.
Farrell, Baymond A.......................
Farrell, Daniel G........................
Farwell, Arthur F........................
Felix, Glen H............................
Fowler, Francis E........................
Freese, George W.........................
Frossard, Emil...........................
Farley, John F...........................
Finnegan, George J.......................
Finnegan, Edward P.......................
Finner, Charles R........................
Foik, Paul J.............................
Forrestal, Peter P.......................
Feeley, Wm. P....................................Illinois.
Flaherty, Edward M......................Indiana.
Gaffney, Joseph M.......................Wisconsin.
Gali, Rafael U..........................Cuba.
Gardiner, William K.....................New York.
Gavigan, Edward J.......................Colorado.
Gearin, Walter J........................Oregon,
o
Gomez, Manuel M.........................Mexico.
Gorman, Charles A.......................New York.
Gormley, George E.......................Wisconsin.
Green, Omer D...........................Indiana.
Gallastegui, Frederico L................Mexico.
Gillen, Charles I.......................Ohio.
Golden, Clayton C.......................Michigan.
Golley, Ralph D.........................Ohio.
Graeber, Clarence M.....................Pennsylvania.
Graeber, George H.......................Pennsylvania.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
189
Guerra, Samuel J.......................Mexico.
Guerra, Gustavo I......................Mexico.
Gage, Boy................................Michigan.
Garcia, Juan A....................^... .New Mexico.
Garcia, Felix............................Spain.
Gartland, James P........................Indiana.
Gaston, Edward P.........................Cuba.
Gatens, Raymond S........................Tennessee.
Gehlert, Thomas J........................Michigan.
Geoghegan, Harry J.......................New York.
Gerrard, Condon..........................Indiana.
Gerraughty, Wm. J........................Montana.
Gerraughty, Thomas P.....................Montana.
Gray, Richard D..........6...............Illinois.
Gruber, Earl F...........................Indiana.
Goeke, Robert H..........................Ohio.
Goerg, Oscar P...........................Indiana.
Gallart, Jose P......................... Cuba.
Gallart, Juan B..........................Cuba.
Gelder, Joseph D.........................Illinois.
Graham, Thomas W.........................Ohio.
Graham, Robert J'........................Ohio.
Grindall, John T.........................Maryland.
Gasman, Wm. F............................Illinois.
Gately, Peter J..........................Illinois.
Green, Clarence W........................Illinois.
Gallagan, James C.........................New York.
Gorka, Stanislaus J.......................Indiana.
Gavin, Stephen A..........................Pennsylvania.
Gorman, John J............................Illinois.
Graham, James J...........................Illinois.
Griffin, John M...........................Colorado.
Gruza, Stanislaus A.......................Indiana.
Garland, Harry C..........................Michigan.
Gebhart, Carl.............................Illinois.
Glasheen, James D.........................Illinois.
Gormley, John H...........................Wisconsin.
Griffin, Maurice..........................Ohio.
Guyette, Edward M.........................Iowa.
Hammer, Edward T. F..............New	York.
190
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Hammer, Ernest E. L....................New York.
Hammer, Thomas A.......................New York.
Hanley, Robert E.......................Idaho.
Higgins, Win. P........................Massachusetts.
Hogan, Harry G.........................Indiana.
Hoover, Harry H........................Illinois.
Hoover, Francis B......................Illinois.
Hughes, Francis B......................Nebraska.
Hamilton, Clifford S...................Iowa.
Harris, Thomas M.......................Illinois.
Healy, Thomas F..."....................Illinois.
Herrmann, Wallie.......................Illinois.
Herrmann, George A.....................Illinois.
Hernandez, Rafael N...........*........Mexico.
Hunt, Theodore F.......................Missouri.
Hurst, Noble J.........................Illinois.
Hurst, Roscoe P........................Illinois.
Haney, Charles E.......................Indiana.
Hanlon, Thomas J.......................Kansas.
Hanner, John C.........................Ohio.
Hanzel, Francis J......................Minnesota.
Harmon, Joseph R.......................Michigan.
Hatch, Albert J........................Michigan.
Hatfield, Everett W....................Indiana.
Hayes, John R..........................Wisconsin.
Henry, John W..........................Ohio.
Hillis, Francis M......................Iowa.
Hoban, Martin C........................Indiana.
Hogan, Joseph H........................New York.
Horn, John C...........................Indiana.
Howe, Delavan D........................Texas.
Hussey, Jeremiah E.....................Illinois.
Hackman, August J......................Indiana.
Hamer, Raymond J.......................Indiana.
Hartzer, Francis W.....................Indiana.
Harrington, John D.....................Utah.
Hart, Laurence A.......................Indiana.
Hearn, Victor J........................New Jersey.
Hemenway, Dane E.......................Michigan.
Hodge, Howard M........................Illinois.
Houser, Benjamin J.....................Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
191
Hurtado, Angel............................Mexico.
Hall, John R..............................Ohio.
Heeb, Louis B...........................Illinois.
Hennessey, William J....................Colorado.
Hagerty, Cornelius J....................Indiana.
Hanyz, Martin S.........................Indiana.
Hennessy, David J.......................Dlinois.
Hagerty, Charles D......................Indiana.
Hagerty, Timothy P......................Indiana.
Hayes, Frank D........„.................Illinois.
3
Hebert, Alfred.......................Michigan.
Hebert, Peter........................Michigan.
Horwarth, George F...................Indiana.
Hosinski, Sylvester A,...............Indiana.
Haight, Charles E....................Michigan.
Hannigan, James T....................Illinois.
Ill, Alphonse P........................Ohio.
Irvine, Wm. B..........................Illinois.
Irving, Thomas P.......................Wisconsin.
Jenkins, Joseph M......................Kentucky.
Jones, Vitus G.........................Michigan.
Jamieson, Wm. D........................Illinois.
Jelsch, Theodore J.....................Michigan.
Jennings, Raymond	S................Wisconsin.
Johnson, Raymond	F................Wisconsin.
Jurgens, Fred T...........................Illinois.
Jepson, Archie 0..........................Iowa.
Johnston, Edward E........................Mexico.
Jones, Walter B.............................Illinois.
Joerger, Francis X...........................Indiana.
Jones, Harry F....................‘...Michigan.
Jones, Thomas J........................Indiana.
Kahler, Chas. P........................Maryland.
Kanaley, Byron V.......................New York.
Kelly, John R................................Indiana.
Keeley, Dennis T.............................Wisconsin.
Kasper, Fred J...............................Illinois.
Kasper, George W.............................Hlinois.
Kasper, Francis P............................Illinois.
Kasper, Robert A.............................Illinois.
9

192
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kasper, Wm, H...................................Illinois.
Kasper, Simeon M................................Illinois.
Kemper, Henry M.................................Illinois.
Kerr, Michael J.........................Pennsylvania.
King, Charles E.........................Ohio.
Kotte, Albert A.........................Ohio.
Krotz, Karl L...........................Ohio.
Keeffe, James T..........................Iowa.
Keliher, Austin B........................Michigan.
Kellner, Francis A.......................Kentucky.
Kennedy, Clarence J......................Illinois.
Kenny, Thomas J..........................Pennsylvania.
Krieger, John T..........................Indiana.
Katterjohn, Wm. R........................Kentucky.
Keenan, Thomas J.........................Kentucky.
Keefe, Walter E..........................Illinois.
Keiler, Leo F............................Kentucky.
Kelly, Daniel T..........................New Mexico.
Kenefick, Matthew J......................Indiana.
Kennedy, Edward	M..................Pennsylvania.
Kerr, Glenn B............................Ohio.
Krost, Gerard N..........................Indiana.
Kingston, Neville........................Michigan.
Katz, Leroy..............................Illinois.
Kelly, Clarence..........................Illinois.
Kelley, Charles H........................Minnesota.
Kiely, Francis...........................Missouri.
Knight, E. Leon..........................Michigan.
Kroth, Francis J.........................Illinois.
Kelly, Louis M...........................Indiana.
Kolupa, Ladislaus A......................Indiana.
Lamprey, John L......................Minnesota.
Loughran, Francis J..................Illinois.
Lomelin, Ignacio F...................Mexico.
Luken, Laurence H....................Indiana.
.Illinois.
South Dakota.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Iowa.
Lynch, Robert E.......................
Lyons, Thomas D.......................
Lonergan,-Francis J...................
Lynch, H. Meyer.......................
Lally, Addis E........................
■UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
193
Lantry, Joseph T.......
Larkin, Cyrus M........
Lawless, Wm. P.........
Litzelmann, Joseph J..
Litzenberger, Walter D
Lomba, Angel...........
Lugo, David............
Lyman, Paul I..........
Langan, John J.........
Lawton, Jasper H.......
Lilly, Mark J..........
Lynch, John J..........
Langendorf Samuel . .
Lavan, Thomas J........
Lewes, Randolph A....
Lewes, Robert A........
Loewenthal, Irving....
Luhr, Henry 0..........
Lyon, Daniel F.........
Lennartz, Win. P.......
Lacey, Maurice A.......
Latimer, Prank D.......
Lavoy, Michael J.......
Lenhard, Carl J........
... ..Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Indiana.
.....Cuba.
.....Mexico.
.*... .Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Texas.
.....Wisconsin.
.....Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Ohio.
.... Missouri.
.....Missouri.
.....Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Illinois.
.....Ohio.
.....Wisconsin.
..... Illinois.
.....P. Q., Canada.
.....Indiana.
Maher, Robert C..........................Pennsylvania.
Manier, Wm. I............................Ohio.
Meyers, Joseph J.........................Iowa.
Mulvey, Leo I............................Wisconsin.
Marti, Ramon.............................Mexico.
Matthews, Guy W..........................Indiana.
Maypole, Henry A.........................Illinois.
Maypole, George M........................Illinois.
Moran, Charles E.........................Illinois.
Mulcrone, Charles J......................Michigan.
Muriel, Jose.............................Mexico.
Muriel, Florencio........................Mexico.
Madden, Ralph C..........................Illinois.
Maginnis, Martin C.......................Minnesota.
Maher, Carl J............................Iowa.
Maher, Francis S.........................Iowa.
194
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Manzanares, Manuel P...
Markey, Jam.es L.........
Medley, Ben F............
Medley, Wm...............
Medrano, Joachim H.......
Mercado, Salvador D......
Milliken, James L........
Mills, John L............
Montes de Oca, Juan Perez
Mooney, John B..........
Moran, Joseph A..........
Mulcrone, Win. R.........
Munsch, Albert A.........
Munsch, Brancis X........
Murphy, Clifton R. B.....
Murphy, D. Carl..........
Murphy, Daniel L.........
Murphy, James F..........
Murphy, John J...........
Myers, Cyrus A...........
Mambourg, Nestor.........
Mathews, Edward A........
Midkiff, Harry D.........
Miller, Hugh E...........
Miller, Ralph D..........
Morrison, Joseph B.......
Morrison, Denis A. ...... .
Moya, Angel..............
Mulligan, Bernard J......
Murphy, Michael C........
Maginn, Francis J........
Maginn, John A...........
Marr, Charles B..........
Mason, Edwin.............
Meenach, Harry W.........
Mishkowsky, Louis........
Mooney, Edward L.........
Morrison, Patton.........
Munson, Porter W.........
Maguire, Bernard J.......
Maguire, Frank C.........
.New Mexico.
Illinois.
.Kentucky.
.Kentucky.
Cuba.
Mexico.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Cuba.
North Dakota.
Indiana.
Michigan.
Pennsylvania.
.Pennsylvania.
Arkansas.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Indiana.
Ohio.
Illinois.
.Illinois.
Ohio.
.Minnesota.
Iowa.
Iowa.
Cuba.
Colorado.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Washington.
Illinois.
.Minnesota.
Ohio.
.Missouri.
.New York.
.New York.

«
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
195
Mathis, Michael J.....................Indiana.
Mannion, Thomas T. ,..................Canada.
Molony, Wm. 1?........................Indiana.
Misch, Edgar J........................Ohio.
Maher, Frank T........................Indiana.
Madden, Daniel L......................Illinois.
Malloy, Patrick M.....................Iowa.
Miller, Paul..........................Michigan.
Morrissey, John C.....................Indiana.
Murphy, Wm. B.........................Illinois.
Murphy, John F........................Illinois.
MacDonough, Patrick J.................New York.
McCullough, Gilbert F.................Iowa.
McKeever, Francis H...................Iowa.
McGlew, Henry J.......................Indiana.
McCaffrey, John A.....................Pennsylvania.
McDonald, Cassius M...................Illinois.
McFarland, Alex. W...................Ohio.
McFarland, Clarence J.................Ohio.
McKeon, Francis M.....................South Dakota.
McCaffrey, Anthony F..................Indiana.
McDermott, Robert	F.................Illinois.
McDermott, George	J.................Illinois.
McDermott, Edward W...................Illinois.
McDonald, John C......................Illinois.
McGarrell, John J......................West Virginia.
McMahon, John T.......................Illinois.
McMahon, Wm. J........................Illinois.
McNamara, Peter J.....................Massachusetts.
McNichol, Daniel......................Ohio.
McQuown, Norman L.....................Ohio.
McCaffrey, John M.....................Indiana.
McCaffrey, James A....................Indiana.
McCullough, John A. .................Pennsylvania.
McDermont, Charles T..................Ohio.
McDermont, Chapman H..................Ohio.
McGowan, Francis P. A.................New York.
McKearney, Wm. A......................Ohio.
McKenna, Wm. P......................... .Massachusetts.
McLain, Wm. A.........................New Jersey.
McDowd, Edwin J.......................Illinois.
106
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
McFadden, Thomas J.................
Illinois.
Michigan.
Rhode Island.
Rhode Island.
Kentucky.
Ontario, Canada.
McGill, Robert J.. .................
MacCauley, Hugh B...................
McGinn, John C......................
McNamara, George J..................
Mcllhargey, Patrick J...............
Pennsylvania.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Iowa-
South Dakota.
Illinois.
Mexico.
Indiana.
Rhode Island.
Neeson, John H.........................
Nyere, George D........................
Nolan, Wm. E...........................
Nabers, Theodore H.....................
Narcelle, Edward P...................	...
Nelson, John W.........................
Nieto, Francisco G.....................
Niezer, George B.......................
Norman, Henry A........................
O'Connor, John J........................Indiana.
O’Grady, Patrick W......................New York.
O'Mallev, Dominic K.....................Wisconsin.
O’Brien, Karl A.........................Pennsylvania.
O’Connor, Edward F......................Ohio.
Opfergelt, Edward A.................-.	. .Illinois.
O’Connor, Janies A......................Michigan.
O’Connor, Daniel J......................Illinois.
O’Connor, Eugene J......................Indiana.
O’Neill, John IV........................Wisconsin.
0 Reilly, Joseph P......................Ohio.
O'Sullivan, Timothy.....................Illinois.
O’Connor, James T.......................Illinois.
O’Connor, Charles B.   ................New York.
O’Donnell, Aloysius J..................Pennsylvania.
O’Deary, James............................Illinois.
O'Brien, Win. C...........................Ohio.
O'Connor, George J........................Oklahoma.
O’Donnell, Charles L......................Indiana.
O'Donnell, Walter J. .....................Michigan.
O’Neill, Thomas R.........................Illinois.
O’Shea, Denis A...........................Illinois.
O'Shea, Win...........,...................Indiana.
O'Donnell, Paul M.........................Illinois.
O’Keefe, Don Paul.........................Michigan.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
197
O’Phelan, John I......................Minnesota.
O’Shea, John P.........................Indiana.
Patterson, Harry D.
Petritz, Francis J. ..
Piper, Herman C. R
Portillo, Manuel L..
Padden, Dominic J.
Padden, Louis A....
Pino, Arturo.........
Page, Austin W. ...
Pardo, Pedro.........
Pfeiffer, Albert.....
Popp, Thomas J. ...
Poulin, Joseph E.. ..
Pryor, Francis........
Purdy, Warren G...
Plunkett, Charles E
Powell, William P..
Prada, Jose V.........
Perce, Wm. E..........
Proctor, Robert E. ..

.. .Pennsylvania.
.. .Illinois.
.. .Minnesota.
.. .Mexico.
.. . Illinois.
.. .Washington.
.. .Peru, South America.
.. Pennsylvania.
.. Mexico.
... Illinois.
.. .Pennsylvania.
... Indiana.
. ..Colorado.
,. .Kansas.
.. Michigan.
.. Illinois.
.. .Mexico.
.. .Illinois.
.. .Indiana.
Quigley, Edward F.........................Indiana.
Quinn, John D.............................Pennsylvania.
Quinliven, Matthew S......................Texas..
Quinn, Clement K........................ ..Michigan.
Quertinmont, George A.....................Pennsylvania.
Quertinmont, Edgar J......................Pennsylvania.
Quinlan, John M...........................Illinois.
Quinlan, Joseph A.........................Illinois.
Quinlan, Paul C...........................Illinois.
Quinlan, James J... ......................Illinois.
Rayneri, Virgilio	N..................Cuba.
Rayneri, Eugenio P......................Cuba.
Rebillot, Paul F........................Ohio.
Rincon, Francisco.......................Mexico.
Record, James R.........................Texas.
Reulbach, Edward M.....................Missouri.
Riordan, Stephen F
Rosado, Felix A...
.. Illinois.
.. .Yucatan, Mexico.
198
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Rosado, Jose E......
Ruiz, Enrique C....
Rapier, J. Hugh. .. .
Rennolds, W. Harold
Yucatan, Mexico.
.Cuba.
.Kentucky.
^Manila, P. I.
Rhodes, John A..........................Indiana.
Illinois.
Kentucky.
Wyoming.
Indiana.
Illinois.
West Virginia.
Indiana.
Roberts, Harry N.....................
Robertson, George D..................
Rothwell, Harry P....................
Rush, Charles E............*.........
Randle, Drummond, F..................
Riley, Maurice J.....................
Reitz, Clarence A....................
West Virginia.
Nebraska.
Nebraska.
Nebraska.
Cuba.
Reilly, Charles J.......................
Riley, Cornelius A......................
Rocheford, Ector R......................
Rousseau, Edward L......................
Rubio, Marcelino G......................
Rubio, Manuel	G......................Cuba.
Rempe, George	A......................Illinois.
Rempe, Harold	R......................Illinois.
Rempe, Lester	W......................Illinois.
Roe, Benjamin..............................Illinois.
Robinson, Everett S........................Nebraska.
Robinson, Leo C.......................Illinois.
Rudolph, Wm. H.............................Michigan.
Rudolph, Marshall	K...................Michigan.
Roque, Warren E............................Rhode Island.
Ryan, John M...............................Illinois.
Raj cany, Francis..........................Indiana.
Robinson, Wm. F............................Mississippi.
Rogers, Wm. J.. _..........................Illinois.
Ryan, E. Alfonso...........................Iowa.
Salmon, Louis J........................New York.
Shaughnessey, Francis J................Illinois.
Shea, John F...........................Massachusetts.
Shea, Michael J........................Massachusetts.
Smoger, Francis A......................Indiana.
Stanford, John W.......................Kansas.
Stanford, Grattan T....................Kansas.
Steiner, Arthur E......................Michigan.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
199
Stephan, Anton C.........................Illinois.
Stephan, Raymond V.......................Illinois.
Sweeney, Robert J........................Washington.
Schaefer, Thomas.........................Minnesota.
Schutz, Carl T...........................Minnesota.
Schwab, Edward H
Pennsylvania.
Iowa.
West Virginia.
Indiana.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Washington.
Illinois.
Indiana.
Sheuerman, Henry S......................
Simon, L. Hugh..........................
Stevens, Walter A.......................
Stopper, Anthony J......................
Striegel, Oscar.........................
Schaus, Henry G.........................
Scott, Robert E.........................
Scott, O. Francis.......................
Seidel, Frederick W.....................
Sheble, Ernest K...........................Missouri.
Sheehan, Clarence J........................Illinois.
Sheekey, Charles F..........................Indiana.
Shields, Fred P.........................Pennsylvania.
Siewertsen, Wm. T.......................Indiana.
Silver, Nathan.........................Illinois.
Simms, Michael	L....................Kentucky.
Simms, Thomas	W....................Kentucky.
Simon, Arturo..........................Cuba.
Smith, Robert E........................Ohio.
Sonnhalter, Aaron L....................Ohio.
Stack, John K...........................Michigan.
Staley, Harry L.........................Indiana.
Steinkohl, Louis J......................Indiana.
Stenger, Albert W
Sullivan, David L.
Sweeny, Francis R.
Sawyer, Harold P.
Shannon, Gerald A
Shea, John M.....
Smith, Wm. J.....
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
. .Washington.
. .Illinois.
,. .Washington.
. .Michigan.
.. Ohio.
Smithwick, Thomas J.............”........Indiana.
Sorg, Claude A...........................Ohio.
Spengler, Walter J.......................Illinois.
Spengler, Herbert A......................Illinois.
^pengler, Francis E......................Illinois..,
200
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Strauss, Fred H. A.......
Swann, Edwin V...........
Sabin, Franklin E........
Sayre, Edgar.............
Schonlau, Claire E.......
Shannon, Clarence W...
Schick, Francis..........
Small, Emmett R..........
Smith, Walter L..........
Smith, F. Dickason.......
Sonderegger, Pedro....
Strassburger, Ernest H..
Strong, Lyman.........
Sturgeon, James A.....
Sullivan, Robert B....
Symonds, Edward L.....
Symonds, Henry R......
Sheedy, Joseph A......
Stanton, John V.......
Steiner, Wm. A........,,..
Szamecki, Stanislaus P..
Sypniewski, Stanislaus A
Szybowicz, Leo P......
Scott, Albert F.......
Sheehan, John W.......
Sherry, James J.......
Sullivan, Charles F...
Swantz, Thomas J......
Sweeney, Stanton A....
Illinois.
West Virginia.
Illinois.
Ohio.
Wisconsin.
Washington.
Indiana.
Illinois.
West Virginia.
Illinois.
.Colombia, S. A.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Iowa.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Canada.
Illinois.
New York.
■Indiana.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
New York.
..Indiana.
Montana.
Illinois.
Toohey,	Joseph L.......................Ohio.
Trevino,	Richard A......................Mexico.
Talcott,	Harrison W....................Indiana.
Talcott,	Rodney D......................Indiana.
Teruel, Alberto G........................Mexico.
Teruel, Charles G........................Mexico.
Toba, Francisco..........................Mexico.
Tong, Charles B..........................Indiana.
Treadwell, Ira M.........................Indiana.
Trentman, Stephen A......................Indiana.
Tillett, Grover C........................Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
201
Toner, Thomas A...........................Minnesota.
Trester, Anthony M.......................Wisconsin.
Uhrich, Maurus J.........................Washington.
Usera, Julio J........................  ..Puerto	Rico.
Upman, Walter F..........................Illinois.
Voigt, John R...........................Indiana.
Villanueva, Augustin P..................Mexico.
Villanueva, Jose 0......................Mexico.
Villanueva, Jose Antonio................Mexico.
Villanueva, Santiago F..................Mexico.
Villanueva, Luis G......................Mexico.
Vogel, Francis H........................Ohio.
Valentine, John H.......................Iowa.
Vanderhoof, Edward S....................Indiana.
Van Zandt, Everett C....................Illinois.
Von Phul, Carol A.......................Missouri.
Van Rie, Leo P..........................Indiana.
Michigan.
Pennsylvania.
Illinois.
Wisconsin.
Indiana.’
Washington.
West Virginia.
Michigan.
Indiana.
Wisconsin.
Indiana.
Indiana.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Illinois.
Wurzer, Edward C.....................
Weiss, Philip J., Jr.................
Wagner, Louis E......................
Weiss, Francis C......................
Weise, Edward E .....................
Welch, James A.......................
Welty, Louis A.......................
Wohlgemuth, John F.. ..;.............
Woodruff, Francis E..................
Wachter, John L......................
Wagner, Frederick....................
Wagner, Lucius M.....................
Walsh, Mark A........................
Wenter, Henry W......................
White, Mark B........................
Oregon.
Indiana.
Illinois.
North Dakota.
Iowa.
New York.
Pennsylvania.
Wiley, Joseph E.......................
Willard, John A.......................
Williams, Griffith J..................
Williams, Maurice F...................
Winkel, John A........................
Worden, John..........................
Wade, Joseph B........................
202
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Weisse, Paul A......................./.. .Illinois.
Winter, Wm. J...........................  Pennsylvania.
Winter, August A.........................Pennsylvania.
Winter, Charles	A......................Pennsylvania.
Walsh, Houston	L......................Illinois.
Warren, Howard............................Illinois.
Weber, Peter A............................Illinois.
Whiteley, Harry W.........................Illinois.
Whiteley, Thomas D........................Illinois.
Whiteley, John E..........................Illinois.
Wiest, J. Lambert..........................Utah.
Wilson, Earl H............................Colorado.
Wilson, Roy L.............................Illinois.
Woods, James A............................Colorado.
Walsh, Matthew J..........................Illinois.
Weisbecker, Aloysius A....................Indiana.
Wimberg, Wm. M............................Ohio.
Walsh, Francis M..........................Illinois.
Welch, Thomas J...........................Illinois.
Young, John..............................England.
Yrissarri, Eduardo	C.................New Mexico.
Yrissarri, Jacobo J......................New Mexico.
Ziegler, George F........................Wisconsin.
Zolper, Harry W...................:......Illinois.
Zang, Adolph J...........................Pennsylvania.
Zeibold, George C........................Illinois.
Zerhusen, Francis	X...................Ohio.
Zink, Frank D............................Ohio.
Fifty-Ninth
Annual Commencement.
204
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
Dr. Martin F. Coomes, A. M., M. D., Louisville,
Kentucky.
Constantius M. Graham, A. M., Memphis, Tennessee.
Very Rev. Thomas F. Hickey, V. G., Rochester, New
York.
John M. Gearin, B. S., M. S., Portland, Oregon.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts’ was conferred on
Francis Barry, Chicago, Illinois.
Robert Emmet Lynch, Chicago, Illinois.
Charles A. Gorman, Brooklyn, New York.
Robert J. V. Sweeny, Spokane, Washington.
Emiel Peter DeWulf, Mishawaka, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Francis Hugh McKeever, Ireton, Iowa.
Dominic Kern O’Malley, Waunakee, Wisconsin.
Matthew James Walsh, Chicago, Illinois.
J. Leonard Carrico, Raywick, Kentucky.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on
Patrick J. MacDonough, New York City, New York.
Robert E. Hanley, Wardner, Idaho.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
Joseph Augustine Fahy, Rome, Georgia.
Francisco Rincon, Mexico City, Mexico.
Patrick Wilbert O’Grady, Glens Falls, New York.
Paul Francis Rebillot, Louisville, Ohio.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
205
Edward C. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan.
John Henry Neeson, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Flurry V. Crumley, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on
Francis A. Smoger, South Bend, Indiana.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engi-
neering was conferred on
Frederick Ludwig Baer, Wilkesbarre, Pennsylvania.
Frank J. M. Petritz, Rockford, Illinois.
Victor M. Arana, Lima, Peru, South America.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on
Rafael Urbano Gali, Sancti Spiritus, Cuba.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Dennis T. Keeley, West Bend, Wisconsin.
Vitus G. Jones, Dowagiac, Michigan.
George Francis Ziegler, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Peter John McNamara, Worcester, Massachusetts.
Edward Francis Quigley, Greenfield, Indiana.
William Patrick Higgins, Boston, Massachusetts.
John William Dubbs, Mendota, Illinois.
Raymond Vitus Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois.
Edward Daniel Collins, Boston, Massachusetts.
Francis P. Burke, Richwood, Wisconsin.
Francis Bertram Hughes, West Point, Nebraska.
Omer David Green, Lagro, Indiana.
Harold H. Davitt, Saginaw, Michigan.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on
Lawrence H. Luken, Richmond, Indiana.
Oscar Pierre Goerg, Michigan City, Indiana.
Francis J. Shaughnessy, Amboy, Illinois.
Edward Vincent Gavigan, La Junta, Colorado.
206
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Certificate in Short Course of Electrical Engineering
was awarded to
Charles J. Mulcrone, St. Ignace, Michigan.
Certificate for Telegraphy was awarded to
John M. Brooder, Kane, Pennsylvania.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Maurice J. Riley, Thayer, West Virginia.
Santiago F. Villanueva, Celaya, Mexico.
B. Augustine, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Richard A. Benson, McLeansboro, Illinois.
Thomas H. Cahill, Chicago, Illinois.
Robert J. Dannemiller, Canton, Ohio.
J. Emmett Dougherty, Park River, North Dakota.
B. Gabriel, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Karl L. Krotz, Defiance, Ohio.
Frederick T. Juergens, Petersburg, Illinois.
Herman C. R. Piper, Stillwater, Minnesota.
Raymond F. Johnson, Grand Rapids, Wisconsin.
Anthony F. McCaffrey, Logansport, Indiana.
B. Daniel, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Matthew S. Quinliven, El Paso, Texas.
Henry W. Wenter, Chicago, Illinois.
Mark A. Walsh, Maple Park, Illinois.
John A. Coughlin, Chicago, Illinois.
B. Aiden, Notre Dame, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
207
PRIZE MEDALS,
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan,
of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Course, senior year, was
awarded to
Emiel Peter De Wulf, Mishawaka, Indiana.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall hav-
ing the best record for the scholastic year, was
awarded to
Harold P. Fisher, Paducah, Kentucky.
The Meehan Gold Medal, for English Essays, presented
by Mrs. James Meehan, Covington, Kentucky,
was awarded to
J. Leonard Carrico, Raywick, Kentucky.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, donated by the Hon.
William P. Breen, LL. D., of Fort Wayne, was
awarded to
Thomas D. Lyons, Carthage, South Dakota.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal for Chris-
tian Doctrine in Sorin Hall, was awarded to
Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
A. S. Hughes, Denver, Colorado, for the best
record in Mathematics (Civil Engineering
Course) was awarded to
Joseph A. Fahy, Rome, Georgia.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
A, was awarded to
James R. Record, Paris, Texas.
208
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, ist Division, was awrded to
Addis E. Lally; Denison, Iowa.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine
in Moral Course B, 2d Division, presented by the
Reverend M. J. Fitzsimmons, Rector of Holy
Name Cathedral, of Chicago, was awarded to
William D. Jamieson, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 3d Division, was awarded to
J. Emmett Dougherty, Park River, North Dakota.
The Mooney Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, First Course, presented by Rev. Nathan J.
Mooney, ’77, Rector of St. Columbkille's Church,
Chicago, was awarded to
William N. Bosler, Louisville, Kentucky.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 4th Division, was awarded to
Robert R. Clarke, Chicago, Illinois.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Flail, Second Course, presented by the Rev. F.
J. Barry, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Chi-
cago, was awarded to
Daniel T. Kelly, East Las Vegas, New Mexico.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in Senior
Class, Commercial Course, was awarded to
Matthew S. Quinliven, El Paso, Texas.
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold, presented by the Hon.
Clement Studebaker, South Bend, Indiana, for de-
bating work, was awarded as follows:	.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
209
Forty Dollars to Byron V. Kanaley, Weedsport, N. Y.
Twenty Dollars to Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, Chambers-
burg, Pennsylvania.
Fifteen Dollars to Maurice Griffin, Toledo, Ohio.
The Barry Elocution Medal in the Collegiate Depart-
ment, donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry, of
Chicago, was awarded to
Louis E. Wagner, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in Preparatory Course was
awarded to
Wesley J. Donahue, Chicago, Illinois.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
The Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
Clarence J. McFarland, Wapakoneta, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Edward L. Mooney, Minneapolis, Minn.
The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to
Leo C. Robinson, Chicago, Ill. •
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
' Franklin E. Sabin, Belvidere, Ill. '
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Charles H. Kelley, Duluth, Minn.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded
to
William H. Kasper, Chicago, Ill.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to
Edwin J. McDowd, Chicago, ill.
210
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Abercrombie Gold Medal for Politeness was awarded
to
William F. Gasman, Chicago, Ill.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Robert J. McGill, Detroit, Mich.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby and
Brownson Halls who have attained an average of at least 90 per
cent, for scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year.
The first honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a
diploma; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a
gold medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First'Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Lawrence M. Antoine, Somonauk, Illinois, (renewal).
Francis P. Burke, Richwood, Wisconsin.
Thomas L. K. Donnelly, Bay City, Michigan.
Benjamin R. Enriquez, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Joseph A. Fahy, Rome, Georgia.
Gallitzen A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Pennsylvania,
(renewal).
Walter M. Daly, Madison, South Dakota.
John H. Neeson, Philadelphia, Penn., (renewal).
Patrick W. O’Grady, Glens Falls, New York.
John D. Quinn, Scranton, Penn., (renewal).
Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan, (renewal).
Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois, (renewal).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
211
Michael J. Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
Raymond V. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois.
Edward C. Wurzer, Detroit, Michigan.
Harry W. Zolper, Mendota, Illinois.
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Gold Medal was awarded to
James R. Record, Paris, Texas.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Gold Medal was awarded to
Clarence J. Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois, (renewal).
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Evaristo R. Batlie, Manila, P. I.
Robert E. Hanley, Wardner, Idaho.
Joseph M. Jenkins, Uniontown, Kentucky.
Joseph J. Meyers, Carroll, Iowa.
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
J. Emmett Dougherty, Park River, North Dakota.
Arthur S. Funk, La Crosse, Wisconsin.
.Karl L. Krotz, Defiance, Ohio.
Henry M. Kemper, Chicago, Illinois.
H. Meyer Lynch, West Bend, Wisconsin.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Louis S. Villanueva, Celaya, Mexico.
John Worden, Ossining, New York.
212
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
DEPORTMENT PRIZE MEDALS.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were a,warded to Grover
F. Casey (renewal), John Francis Berteling (renewal).
Bernard J. Mulligan (renewal), Edward L. Rousseau
(renewal), August J. Hackman (renewal), Leo F. Keil er,
Daniel T. Kelly, Matthew J. Kenefick, Charles T. McDer-
mont, Macelino G. Rubio, Walter J. Spengler, Augustin P.
Villanueva, George C. Ziebold, Gerald Shannon, Henry
Donahue (renewal).
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to
Howard F. Farrell, Raymond A. Farrell, Carol A. Von
Phul, Walter F. Upman, Joseph E. Quinlan, E. Leon
Knight.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awrded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medal for Deportment was awarded to
Richard R. Benson.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to
Francis J.- Kroth, Emil Frossard, Earl H. Wilson,
Francis J. Maginn, George A. Rempe, Porter W. Munson,
Royal O. Bassett.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
213
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no need
of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without endow-
ment, and its work is seriously hampered because it has
no resources except the fees of the students. There are two
scholarships and the interest from these foundations is used
in educating and boarding two students.
There were in 1901 1,452 Catholic students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and very
many of these will lose their faith, and all will be weak-
ened in that faith, because our people look upon collegiate
institutions as the property of private corporations which
are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys that can not
pay the expense of education, and who therefore are obliged
to go to non-Catholic colleges to the detriment of their
faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and board a
student as long as the University exists. As one bursar is
graduated another can take his place. The founder of the
scholarship, of course, always has the privilege of appoint-
ing the student.
We lack money for a library building, and for two more
dwelling-halls like Sorin Hall.
Foundations for scholarships are also a pressing need.
There is no Library fund for the purchase of new books.
The names of benefactors will be given to all foundations.
214
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Bequests should be made after this form:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC.
I give, devise and bequeath to the University of
Notre Dame du Lac, an institution incorporated
under the laws of the State of Indiana, and located
at Notre Dame, Indiana,..........................
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
215
INDEX.
Admission to:
Collegiate Courses, the................................. 97
Conditional Admission................................... 98
Departments of Arts and Letters........................ 100
Department of Science.................................. 106
Department of	Architecture............................ 129
Department of	Civil Engineering....................... 118
Department of	Electrical Engineering.................. 124
Department of	Law..................................... 133
Department of Mechanical Engineering................... 121
Department of Pharmacy................................. 112
Advanced Standing, admission to............................. 98
Anatomy, Courses in......................................... 87
Architecture, Courses in.................................... 69
Scheme of Courses..................................... 130
Astronomy, Course in....................................... 62
Athletics, .................................................... 25
Faculty Board in Athletics................................. 26
Bacteriology, Course in........................................ 89
Biology, Courses in............................................ 85
Scheme of Courses........................................ Ill
Laboratory Fees...........................107,'	110, 113, 116
Board of Trustees............................................. 4
Board and Tuition........................................28,	181
Botany, Courses in........................................... 82
Buildings, Description of.................................... 12
Calendar, University........................................   3
Chemistry, Courses in........................................ 78
Civil Engineering, Courses in (See Mathematics, Pure and
Applied)
Admission to........................................z	•
Scheme of Courses.................................... 130
216
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
College, The
Admission to............................................ 97
Commencement Honors.................................... 204
Commercial Course....................................... 157
Degrees:
Bach, of	Arts........................................   102
Bach, of	Laws.......................................... 142
Bach, of	Letters.....................................   103
Bach, of	Philosophy.................................... 104
Master of Letters in Journalism......................... 105
Bach, of	Science....................................... 109
Bach, of	Science in	Biology......................... Ill
Bach, of	Science in	Architecture....................... 130
Civil Engineer......................................... 120
Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering.......... 126
Mechanical Engineer.................................... 123
Pharmaceutical Chemist................................. 114
Graduate in Pharmacy....'.............................. 114
Directory ................................................... 2
Discipline ................................................  24
Drawing :
Artistic Drawing, Courses in............................ 73
Mechanical Drawing, Courses in.......................... 75
Economics, Courses in....................................... 48
Electrical Engineering, Courses in.......................... 67
Admission to........................................... 124
Scheme of Courses...................................... 126
Laboratory Eees...............7........................ 116
Electricity, Short Course in Applied
Admission to.........................................   127
Scheme of Courses.......,.............................. 128
Laboratory Fees........................................ 116
Elocution, Courses in...................................... .44
English, Courses in......................................... 42
Entrance Requirements, (See Admission).
Ethics, Course in........................................... 32
Evidences of Christianity................................... 97
Expenses ................................................... 28
Executive Officers........................................... 5
Fees .....................................................   28
UNIVERSITY	OF NOTRE DAME.	217
French, Courses in......................................... 50
Old French............................................. 52
General Sciences
Admission to;.......................................   106
Scheme of Courses..................................... 109
Geology, Courses in........................................ 90
German, Courses in......................................... 52
Graduation Fees............................................ 29
Greek, Courses in.’........................................ 35
Historical Sketch of the University........................ 12
History, Courses in........................................ 46
History and Economics, Courses in.......................... 46
Admission to.......................................... 100
Scheme of Courses..................................... 104
Italian ................................................... 51
Journalism, Courses in........:........................... 105
Admission to.......................................... 105
Scheme of Courses..................................... 105
Laboratory Fees.............................107,	110, 113, 116
Latin, Courses in.......................................... 39
Law ...................................................... 131
Lodging, Board and......................................... 28
Logic, Course in........................................... 31
Mathematics, Pure, Courses in.............................. 53
Mathematics, Applied, Courses	in........................... 55
Mechanical Engineering, Courses in......................... 63
_ Admission to.......................................*••• H5
Scheme of Courses..........................'.......... 123
Laboratory Fees........................................ H$
Medals and Honors.......................................... 27
Metaphysics, Course in..................................... 31
Microscopy, Courses in...................................-	86
Minim Department.......................................... 177
Fees ................................................. 181
Museum .................................................... 18
Music, ’ Course in......................................... 93
Fees .................................................. 29
Painting :
Fee .................................................
29
218
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Pharmacy, Courses in........................................... 91
Admission to.............................................. 112
Scheme of Courses......................................... 114
Fees ...................................................... 113
Philosophy, Course in.......................................... 31
Physics, Courses in............................................ 81
Physiology, Courses in......................................... 88
Political Science, Course in................................... 48
Portuguese, Course in.......................................... 51
Preparatory School............................................. 161
Professors and Instructors, Koster of.......................7,	132
Provencal, Courses in.......................................... 52
Psychology, Courses in......................................... 31
Romance Language, Courses in................................... 50
Science, Courses in General, (See General Science).
Shop Work....................................................... 66
Spanish, Courses in............................................. 51
Students, Summary of.......................................... 183
Thesis .................................106,	110, 113, 119, 122, 125
Title, Legal, of the University................................. 11
Trustees, Board of............................................... 4
Tuition, (See Expenses).......................................... 28
Zoology, Courses in.............................................. 83
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
219
The Notre Dame Scholastic*
Is a 28-page paper devoted to the interests of the students
and published by them every week during term time. The
journal is in the hands of a student board of editors and
students do all the writing for it. Work done for The
Scholastic is regarded as supplementary to the theoretical
work of the English courses; hence the character of the
articles,—essays on literary subjects, biographical sketches,
short stories, exercises in verse, book-reviews, etc. As con-
tributors are expected to prepare their own copy for the
press and to do their own proof-reading, they gain no small
amount of practical experience.
Although The Scholastic is published chiefly for the sake
of the students attending the University, their parents and
all former students will see things of interest in its columns.
Reports of the popular lecture course and of events hap-
pening at Notre Dame and other colleges, personal notices,
athletic notes, reviews of the work done in the debating
and other classes, find place in the paper and keep parents
and others informed about matters that concern their chil-
dren and friends.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50 per
annum.
Address all communications to
THE NOTRE DAME SCHOLASTIC
Notre Dame, Indiana.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY.
NOTRE DAMEj INDIANA.
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS.
ONE MILE WEST OF NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
KMEKansBnMoi
Beautifully and healthfully located on an eminence overlooking
the banks of the St. Joseph River. Enjoys a national patronage.
All the branches of a thorough English, Classical, Scientific and
Commercial Course with Modern Languages taught. On comple-
tion of the College Course students are entitled to the Degree of
A. B., Litt. B,, or B. S.
THE PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT. Here pupils are trained
in the Regular, Special and College Preparatory Courses.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT provides for the tender care, and
special instruction of children under the age of twelve years.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC is conducted on the plan of
the best Classical Conservatories.
THE ART DEPARTMENT is modeled after the leading Art
Schools in Europe.
GYMNASIUM with resident director, a graduate of Dr. Sar-
gent’s Normal School of Physical Training, Cambridge, Mass.
Over two hundred acres devoted to walks, and outdoor sports.
The AIM of moral, intellectual and physical training is to prepare
young women for lives of usefulness. The constant growth of
the Academy has necessitated the erection of additional fine
buildings with latest Hygienic equipments. Moderate Cost. New
school year begins September 8th. For catalogue and special
information apply to
THE DIRECTRESS ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY.
Winnipeg
QUEBEC
/ "
T
^DAKOTA
H3F £LC
'FT. WORTH
LAR£dq
u
F
Ml AW
0
a
PROGRESO^g
VERA CRUZ
Ean8, Sfcjjallr & Co.t ChloaRO.-
MEXICO
a N A
^ENA
SALT dicf
PUERTO a
■SAN" “^ANj-jaO*
AjDoje^; Rico
SAN
ANTONIO
IOWA
1 BISMA71C:
7 PIERRE
, S. DA
G
V
__________
ENNSYLVANII‘9^$^^ORK
HARRISBURg	TWHTON
|----RALTMigg	fjiLADEV-PHIA
!'"columbusJ
CINClNb'ATIv/ASHJHa'ioii
charlEst^i
savEfb
_	. CHICA
CES MOINES
__UTH BEND
ILLINOIS
tPSPR
E
X
AUSTIN
pAS
FRANKFOR

SUPERlOji
0/?£o
S°N I

0
s0/sE
° M I N G
0H^,
nebras
MADISON
AJH i c 0 L o R
[SANTA FE
^t2oNA
/ M E
tORReon
omarN
I____LINCOLN 0
DENVER '~
Dol , topeka
I K A N s A
c o
SAN LU/s
AGUAS
calientes


ROCK
GALVESTON
CORPUS CHRIST/
___'RICHMOND
’V I R G I N I A
KEN/UCKY.x v___________.-
T E^"N • A Rr£UN
X t
yCj ° COLUMBIA)
harleston
SAVANNAH
JACKSONVIttE

TAMPA
montere
^SALTILLO
o’
MATAMORAS

Tq,

AMPICO
AMPEACHY

It is desired that every Graduate receive a copy of the
Annual Catalogue. The Faculty will therefore consider
it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus changes his
address.
On application to the President catalogues will be
sent to all who are interested in the work of the
University.