
CATALOGUE
1903 -1904
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notre Danie, Indiana
Catalogue
of the
University of Notre Dame*
1903-1904.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY — Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hatt in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Grand Trunk,
the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the St.
Joseph, South Bend & Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend.
CALENDAR FOR 1904-1905.
SEPTEMBER	12. Examination of Conditioned Students.
	13-14. Entrance Examination. 15. Schools begin. 18, Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls.
OCTOBER	13. Founder’s Day. 28 29. Bi - Monthly Examinations. 29. Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
NOVEMBER	1. Feast of All Saints. 24* Thanksgiving Day. 30. President’s Day.
DECEMBER	7.	Contest in Oratory. 8.	Feast of Immaculate Conception. 19-20. Winter Examinations. 20. Christmas Vacation begins.
JANUARY	5. Schools begin.
FEBRUARY	3. State Oratorical Contest. 22. Washington’s Birthday. 24-25. Bi - Monthly Examinations.
MARCH	17. St. Patrick’s Day. 19. St. Joseph’s Day.
APRIL	23.	Easter. No Easter Vacation. 24.	Easter Monday. 25-26. Bi - Monthly Examinations.
MAY	1* Latest Date for handing in Prize and Gradua- tion Essays in all Collegiate Courses. 17. Contest in Elocution. 30. Decoration Day.
JUNE	5-10. Examination of Graduates.
•	11. Baccalaureate Sermon. 12-14. General Examinations. 14.	Commencement. Preliminary Exercises 7 :30 p. m. 15.	Graduation Exercises, 8 :00 A. M.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Very Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. DANIEE E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WIEEIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.
Bro. AEBEUS-, C. S. C.
a
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JAMES J. TRENCH, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
secretary.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS*
HOLY CROSS HALL.
REV. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
REv. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. JAMES READY, C. S. C.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.	Bro. EUGENE, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL.
REV. THOS. H. CORBETT, C. S. C. Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.
Bro. 'LEANDER, C. S. C.	Bro. AUGUSTINE, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. AIDEN, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.	Bro. MALACHY, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL.
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.	Bro. LAWRENCE, C. S. C.
Bro. EINAN, C. S. C.	Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.
REV. PATRICK T. O’REILLY, C. S. C.
Bro. ELORIAN, C. S. C.	Bro. EXUPERE, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S- C.
Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.	Bro. ANGELUS, C. S. C.
PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS.
Rbv. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Religion.
REV. JAMBS J. FRENCH, C. S. C.,
’ Latin and English.
REV. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy and French.
Rev. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
English Literature.
REV. BERNARD J. ILL, C. S. C.,
. German.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Psychology.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
REV. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. JAMES READY, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
8
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Rev. WILLIAM McNAMEE, C. S. C.,
French, and English.
Rev. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C„
Mathematics.
REV. THOMAS HENNESSY, C. S. C.,
Rhetoric.
REV. MICHAEL M. OSWALD, C. S. C.
Greek Language and Literature.
REV. PATRICK T. O’REILLY, C. S. C.,
Spanish.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
-	Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
History and Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Physics and Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
Anatomy and Physiology. {House Physician.'}
FRANCIS J. POWERS, M. S.,
Biology.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN,
Drawing.
HENRY JOHN SCHLACKS,
Director of Course in Architecture.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
9
EEWOOD AEEEN EMERY, Litt. B., B. S.,
Architecture.
HENRY DICKSON,
Elocution and Oratory.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
ROBERT E. GREEN, G. Ph.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping and Commercial Law.
Bro. FINAN, C. S. C.,
Gaelic.
CHAREES PERCY MacHUGH, A. B.,
Eatin and English.
AEPHAEUS B. REYNOLDS, A. B.,
Eatin.
SHERMAN STEEEE, LiTT. B., EE. B.,
English.
DANIEL P. MURPHY, A. B. EE. M.,
Law.
’ WILLIAM J. MAHONEY, A. B.,
English and Mathematics.
MORRIS MOTT SWEENEY, B. S.,
. Physics and Chemistry.
IO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German, and Director of Band and Orchestra.
Bro. BASIE, C. S. C.,
Director of the Department of Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
FRANCIS F. DUKETTE, A. B.,
Greek and Music.
HENRY E. BROWN, Litt. B.,
Phonography and Typewriting.
CHARLES P. KAHLER,
Mathematics.
FRANCIS J. BARRY, A. B.,
English.
FRANCIS H. McKEEVER, LiTT. B.,
English.
LOUIS J. CAREY,
Music.
WILLIAM B. KELLY,
Shopwork.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBINUS, C. S. C.
Bro. MALACHY, C. S. C.
Bro. AIDEN, C. S. C.
Bro. AUGUSTINE, C. S. C.
Bro. EUGENE, C. S. C.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. BENJAMIN, C. S. C.
Bro. AUGUSTUS, C. S. C.
GEORGE H. CRELLIN,
Director of Gymnasium.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
II
NOTRE DAME UNIVERSITY.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the year
1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the late
Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legislature of
Indiana gave the University power to grant degrees. The
beginning of this act is :
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, That Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse,
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted,
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in latw and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States,
provided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and in
law and medicine, as is customary in other Universities in
the United States, ’ ’
12
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE MAIN BUILDING.
The dimensions of this building are 320 by T55 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class - rooms and the" refectories are
in this building. The library and the Bishops’ Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
others in the University, is lighted by electricity and gas,
and heated by steam. The corridors of the first floor are
decorated with mural paintings by G-regori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 feet in height from the floor to
the roof- edge. The interior is decorated by Gregori, and
the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt and
many chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells and
the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8 :00 a. m. to 9 :00 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in wridth, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Musical department, the reading rooms for Brownson and
Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre. The Theatre is
9
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE ~DAME.	13
equipped with stage settings,2and it will seat 1,200
persons.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by the Museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens.
THE CHEMICAE DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first and second floors
of Science Hall.	■	x
On the second floor, and adjoining the General Museum,
is a large and well lighted room reserved for a library and
chemical museum. Here are a library of chemical
journals and books, and a steadily increasing collection of
minerals, chemicals, and chemical - technical products of
all kinds, designed to serve as illustrations of substances
and processes discussed in the various lecture courses.
Adjoining this room are, successively, an apparatus-room,
filled with the most modern apparatus for lecture and
* experimental work; a chemical store room, where labora-
tory supplies may be procured by the students; a lecture
room, and a laboratory for Qualitative and Quantitative
Analysis. The laboratory is furnished with hoods, of
good draught; the desks are provided with water, gas,
and the necessary reagents, and fully equipped with
apparatus for work in gas analysis, organic analysis, and
with apparatus for “Boiling Point and Freezing Point
Determinations.” The Balance Room, adjoining, contains
assay and analytical balances sensitive to the one ten-
thousandth of a gramme. The lecture room is provided,
among other things, with apparatus for stereopticon
illustration, with electric batteries, and with a complete
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
set of charts illustrative of the process employed in modern
chemical industries.
The assay and furnace-room, on the first floor, is
equipped with a set of gas furnaces of the most-modern
type, for the operations of roasting, fusing, scorifying and
cupelling employed in the dry assay of ores.
The Department of
PHYSICS AND EEECTRICAR ENGINEERING
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture
room, with a seating capacity of sixty-five students,
adjoining the rooms in which the apparatus is stored in
dust-proof cases. Several smaller rooms in the basement
contain heavy piers of masonry, for work with sensitive
galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Taboratories :
IN MECHANICS, ETC. :
barge physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard metre,
Geneva cathetometer, capable
of measuring to one twenty-
five thousandth of an inch.
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit recording chro-
nograph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Rotary air pumps and receivers,
A large clock with electrical
contact pieces,
Self winding clocks,
Several mercury barometers,
Two aneroid barometers,
IN ACOUSTICS :
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
Set of electrically-operated tun-
ing forks by Koenig,
A Scott - Koenig Phonauto-
graph,
Edison phonograph of earliest
type,
Koenig’s movable tuning forks,
to draw compound curves on
smoked glass,
Three sets of organ pipes,
Four sets of fine tuning forks,
Apparatus for manometric
observation of sound pheno-
mena,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
Sets of vibrating rods, tubes
and bells,
Large double siren,
A large tuning fork producing
the lowest audible sound,
A set of very small tuning forks
producing the highest audible
sounds,
Apparatus for producing longi-
tudinal vibrations in rods,
A set of resonators mounted
together with capsules for
sensitive flames, arranged for
the analysis of complex
sounds,
An electrical metronome,
Mounted tuning forks carrying
small mirrors arranged to
perform Lissajou’s experi-
ment, producing complex
curves. .
IN LIGHT:
Complete set of apparatus,
made by Soleil, Paris, for the
measurement of the wave
lengths of light by the vari-
ous interference methods,
Sets of polarization apparatus,
Sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors,
Two heliostats,
Four spectroscopes,
A polarizing saccharimeter,
Three projecting lanterns for
gas or electric light, and
3,000 slides,
Set of large Nicol’s prisms
mounted,
Large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum,
Two Rowland gratings, 14,000
lines to the inch,
Sets of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland, <
Several cameras with lenses
and attachments,
A well equipped dark-room for
photographic work,
Photometric room and equip-
ment.
IN HEAT:
Melloni’s apparatus for measur-
ing radiation, absorption and
reflection of heat, complete
with a set of prepared sub-
stances,
Standard thermometers,
Air thermometer,
Steam engine indicator,
Calorimeters,
Apparatus for determining the
coefficient of linear expan-
sion, using the optical lever
method.
IN ELECTRICITY AND MAGNETISM :
An absolute electrometer,
Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static pheno-
mena,
Ten galvanometers of various
types,
Ammeters and voltmeters,
One 2,000 lb. electro magnet,
i6
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Four induction coils,
Six bridges of different types,
Historical set of motors show-
ing evolution of the modern
machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type,
Standard resistance coils,
Several sets of storage cells,
Complete X-ray outfit,
Sets of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy.
In addition to the electrical apparatus in the Depart-
ment of Physics, the equipment for the practical work in
Electrical Engineering consists of engines, dynamos,
instruments, etc., of commercial size, as follows.:
A three phase A. C. induction
motor, arranged to operate on
single phase circuits, with a
condenser compensator,
A high frequency 1000 V., 33 K.
W., composite wound, Wood
alternator of the latest type,
with exciter and a full set of
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of differ-
ent capacity,
A high tension transformer for
testing insulation,
An Edison bipolar 15 K. W.
125 V., generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and
fifteen lamps,
A Wood arc machine, capacity
25 lights,
An Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125
V., dynamo, with special
winding.
A Van Depoele compound
wound dynamo,
A series wound dynamo with
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors,
A forty horse power high speed
automatic engine,
A power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and
hand tools for metals,
A set of wood working tools,
A set of tools for metal work-
ing,
Telegraph relays, sounders,
switchboards, etc.,
Telephone apparatus, including
subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop
manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops,
jacks, switches, lightning
arresters, etc.,
Automatic exchange switches
of different types,
A collection of historical sets,
including Reis’ transmitter
and receiver,
Standard portable bridge,
Common portable bridge,
Kohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery resistance, etc.,
Testing battery,
D’Arsonval and common gal-
vanometers,
Ballistic galvanometer, stand-
ard condenser, etc., for
capacity work,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Resistance boxes, standard
megohms, etc.,
High resistance Thompson gal-
vanometer,
Standard cells,
Valtameter arranged for the
comparison of incandescent
lamps,
A plug switchboard controlling
all circuits,
A calibrating lamp rack,
A small engine belted to shaft-
ing to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and
polishing work to be plated;
solutions, tank, etc.,—in all,
a complete outfit for electro-
type work,
A hot wire ammeter,.
Twelve ammeters and volt-
meters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current meas-
urements,
A set of inclined coiled
alternating current portable
instruments: voltmeter,
f'
ammeter and wattmeter,
A lot of arc lamps series and
constant potential, open and
enclosed arcs of various types,
17
A dynamometer type wattme-
ter,
Recording wattmeters of vari-
ous types,
A collection of motor starting
rheostats,
A set of parts of incandescent
lamps showing the various
stages in their manufacture,
A large collection of porcelain
insulators, etc., used in elec-
trical work, including a lot
of insulators for high tension
transmission lines,
A lot of armature core disks,
transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders,
pole pieces, samples of insu-
lation, commutator segments,
etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading
manufacturers of electrical
machinery,
A case of marked samples of
wire insulators, lamps, and
other construction materials,
Library of practical technical
books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and
trade publications.
EQUIPMENT IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF BIOLOGY, GEOL-
OGY, AND MINERALOGY.
The Department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-
graduate students. All the class rooms are furnished with
charts and models necessary in teaching the different
courses. The arrangement of windows is such that the
18	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
rooms can be easily darkened so that a stereopticon and
lantern slides on the subjects of Botany, Zoology, and
Physiology may be used.
The laboratories are well equipped with compound and
dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a library
of books pertaining to Biological subjects. The Botanical
laboratory contains twenty-four compound miscroscopes
and all the requisite accessories for work in Vegetable
Histology and Cryptogamic Botany. The general labora-
tory of Microscopy, Histology and Embryology is also
supplied with compound miscroscopes and their necessary
accessory apparatus and other equipments indispensable in
the courses mentioned above.
The Bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a
laboratory of Photo - Micrography which contains a perfect
photo - micrographic instrument with a complete set of
accessory apparatus for experimentation, photographing
microscopic objects, making lantern - slides, etc. A large
and fully equipped dark-room adjoins this laboratory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-
rooms and laboratories for the courses in Geology and
Mineralogy. The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms
are well equipped for work in blow-pipe analysis and
assaying.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The Zoological collec-
tion on the second floor at present fills sixteen large cases
and represents typical forms of all the orders and genera of
vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large collection of
representative vertebrate skeletons has recently been added
to this part of the Museum.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
19
The Botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the other
of Canada. There is also a second collection of the woods
and fruits of the United States, almost complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a care-
fully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large Geological
collection; some of the specimens here are of the rarest
fossil remains of animal and plant life.
ENGINEERING HALL*
This building is situated directly south of Science Hall,
and is a large three - story brick building, well lighted and
heated. The two upper floors are given up to Chemistry
and Pharmacy. The General Inorganic, Organic and
Elementary Chemical laboratories are on the third floor,
while the second floor is mostly taken up with Pharmaceu-
tical laboratories, a well equipped drug store, a lecture
room and a general stock room. Each laboratory is
provided with ample hood accommodations, and each desk
is furnished with water, gas and suction.
The southern portion of the second story of this Hall is
used for the
CIVIE ENGINEERING- DEPARTMENT.
The equipment of this department is sufficient for all the
practice and exercises in the field necessary to illustrate
and teach the practical methods of engineering. The
instrumental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit, two
engineer’s transits, with levels and vertical circles attached
to telescopes, one engineer’s wye level, and a plane table
with all the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, etc.
20
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING- DEPARTMENT.
The wood shop, machine shop and blacksmith shop are
on the first floor. The wood shop is supplied with modern
work - benches fully equipped with the smaller tools
necessary for carpentry, twelve lathes for turning, a jig
saw, a revolving planer and a circular saw, the whole
forming an adequate equipment for a thorough mastery
of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The machine shop contains two horizontal slide valve
steam engines which are used for experimental purposes.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived from
the electric station of the University, two ten-horse power
motors being used for this purpose, from which power is
transmitted to the various machines by a line of shafting
running the entire length of the building. The latest
improved lathes have been provided, nine in number,
varying from a five inch swing in the smallest to a large
engine lathe with sixteen foot bed having a capacity for
work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two drill presses,
a large planer, a shaping machine and a Brown and Sharp
milling machine complete the outfit, thus making the
machine shop a model of its kind. The blacksmith shop
has the usual complement for teaching forging, anneal-
ing, welding and tool making. In the foundry work the
student is instructed in the proper disposition of gates and
sprues, the mixing of sand, setting up and drawing simple
and complicated patterns and core making. This is sup-
plemented with lectures on the proper mixing and heating
of cast iron for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregating
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	21
about 1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers
is installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows:—a
Worthington hot water meter for measuring the amount
of feed water, ‘ a feed water thermometer for getting
temperature of same, a high range thermometer for the
temperature of generated steam, a throttling calorimeter
for ascertaining the quality of steam and an automatic
recording pressure gauge giving a continuous record of
the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding the
temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means -of a
pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining samples of
of flue gas for analysis. These, with a Carpenter coal
calorimeter for determining the heating value of the fuel,
comprise a full and complete equipment for giving the
student an intimate knowledge of the practical part of
boiler management and testing. A Webster feed water
heater and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two large
Worthington fire pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with a capacity of
1500 gals, per minute, with numerous separators, steam
traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete the
apparatus in the main steam plant. A McBwen high
speed automatic engine, an Armington and Simms engine
of similar type and several low speed horizontal engines
with planimeters, indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules
and other necessary instruments, are used in studying the
operation bf the steam engine, distribution and economy of
steam, regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.
SORIN HALL*
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings 112
feet in depth. It has a basement and three high stories.
The building contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior or Sophomore standing in any of the
22
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Collegiate Courses are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture - room and a law
library. The building is lighted with electricity and
heated with steam. In the basement are recreation
rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL.
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has three
stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width. There
are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation rooms
and a chapel. The building is lighted with electricity and
gas and heated with steam. For room - rent and care of
the room a fee is charged.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This building is located near the Bngineering Hall and
is designed for an equatorial telescope and for a transit
or meridan circle. The equatorial telescope now in the
building is intended for students of Astronomy, and is in
use whenever favorable weather permits.
THE INFIRMARY.
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for the
use of students during illness. The sick are nursed by
Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University physician
visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM.
The gymnasium which was burnt down in November,
1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on the
ground: it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball-
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
new apparatus ; below that are the offices, dressing - rooms
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
23
and showerbaths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than $3,000 to the fund for
re - building.
The Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the cinder track, and a portable stand near
the bootball rectangle. The field contains ten acres of
ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr. .Warren
A. Cartier, C. F., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS,
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principal are: Saint
Joseph’s Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Fdward’s Hall.
24
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
DISCIPLINE
Official bi-monthly reports of each student’s class stand-
ing will be sent to parents and guardians
The Faculty maintains that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of a
youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible to
bring about this development where students are granted
absolute relaxation from all Faculty government while
outside the class-room. A young man must learn obedience
to law by the actual practice of obedience, not by mere
appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtained except where
discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown to be salutary
by experience, are enforced at the University :
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds with-
out permission from the President or the person delegated
to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students during
the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity. There is
no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University im-
mediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in exam-
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
25
inations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the use
of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
absence from the college limits are among the causes for
expulsion. In case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees will be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discontinued
without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall; and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to those
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls that have
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or Corby
Hall leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious deiiominations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and dll students are required to attend divine
service in the College Church at stated times
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is strictly
prohibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of study
will not be permitted, but students are expected to take
part in outdoor sports and other games.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are strictly
forbidden to countenance anything that savors of profes-
sionalism.
14.	All athletics will be governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the regu-
lations adopted by the Conference Colleges, The President
26
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of the University and members of the Faculty will compose
this Board, and reserve the right of a final decision on all
questions concerning athletics. The Faculty Board will
determine the amateur standing of the members of the
athletic teams, and apportion the finances. By this means
indiscreet and unconsidered action of students will be
checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Concerts are also given monthly by
organizations from without.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
MEDALS AND HONORS.
The Quan Gold Medal is awarded yearly to the student
in the Senior Class of the Classical Course that has the
highest average over 80 per centum.
The Meehan Gold Medal, founded by Mrs. J. Meehan,
of Covington, is awarded to a Senior student in the
English, History and Economics or Classical Course for an
English Essay. This medal is awarded only when the
best essay has attained a fixed standard.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal, presented by Mr. A.
Hughes, of Denver, is awarded for the best record in
Mathematics in the Civil Engineering Course.
The Breen Gold Medal, founded by Mr. William P.
Breen, of Fort Wayne, is awarded for Oratory.
The Barry Medal, founded by Mr. P T. Barry, of
Chicago, is awarded to the winner of the Senior contest in
Elocution.
The Mason Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason, of
Chicago, is awarded to the student of Carroll Hall having
the best record for the Scholastic year.
The Studebaker Debating Prize, Seventy-five Dollars,
presented by the late Hon. Clement Studebaker, of South
Bend, is divided among the three members of the
University Debating Team.
First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby
and Brownson Halls that have maintained throughout the
year an average of at least 90 per centum for class-work
and observance of regulations. A first-honor man for the
first year receives a diploma, the second year a gold medal.
The medal may be received also during the succeeding
year of the course.
28
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance),.........$	10,00
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern Languages in-
cluded) Lodging, Washing, and Mending of Linens, per
Session of nearly ten months................... 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (first year only),..........................$ 10,00
First Payment on Board and Tuition,........................... 250,00
Deposit on Book and Stationery account,........................ 10.00
Lecture Course,...............................................   3.00
Also, in this First' Payment must be included any extra expenses the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed below), Spending money.
On January 15th:
Balance on Board and Tuition,......................$	150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Sessions, September and January. The charge of $400 covers the
tuition fee, which is fixed at $100 per Scholastic Year. This latter
sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scholastic
Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the student be
dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules and regula-
tions herein stated and hereby brought to his notice ; and so likewise
in the event of his leaving and absenting himself from the University
at any time or for any cause without proper notice and permission.
However, an exception is made if it seems to be expedient for him to go
to his home because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not
be conferred on any student whose account with the University has
not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENCES-PAYABLE IN ADVANCE—
For whole Session of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS:
Sorin Hall: Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores, Free;
Freshmen,..................................  $	50.00
Corby Hall,......................................$ 80.00
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves to the
regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the following
may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year. The
charges will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
29
Instrumental Music — Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment .............$60.00
Use of Piano for advanced
Students...........$30.00
Telegraphy.............$25.00
Typewriting— Pull Course,
(20 lessons).... /.....$ 5.00
Phonography............$25.00
Practical Mechanics.....$30.00
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,
Piute, Cornet, Clari-
net, or Mandolin,... .$30.00
Use of each instrument.. .$ 5.00
Vocal Culture..........$40.00
Elocution-Special Course, $10.00
Use of Library..........$ 5.00
“Scholastic,” College
paper,..................$ 1.50
Artistic Drawing........$25.00
Applied Electricty......$40.00
Special Lecture and Con-
cert Course.............$ 3.00
Gymnastics—Pull Course
(20 lessons)............$ 5.00
Laboratory Pees Listed under Regular Courses.
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a degree, $10; Commercial
Course, $5.
REMARKS.
The Bntrance fee, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory
fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, postoffice money
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange
will be charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Brownson, Sorin, Corby and Carroll Halls are closed dur-
ing the months of July and August. Students wishing to
sjend their Sicmmer Vacation under the care of the College
authorities can be accommodated at San fose Park, Lawton,
Michigan.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the
University, a limited number of students aspiring to the
ecclesiastical state can be received at special rates. Fuller
information can be obtained by addressing the President.
The year 1904- 1905 will open on Monday, September 12.
Courses of Instruction*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31

COURSES IN PHILOSOPHY.
I.
(a)	Physiological Psychology — This course is a fairly
comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of con-
sciousness.
(b)	Experimental Psychology—Psycho-physical meth-
ods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology—The problems of the mind.
Nature, origin, and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive. Lectures three hours
a week for two terms.\
(d)	Laboratory Exercises—Experiments will be con-
ducted with special reference to their value as aids to
introspection. Sanford: Course in Experimental Psy-
chology.
[ Two hours a week for two terms. ]
IL
(a) Elements of Epistemology, A study of the Scho-
lastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teachings of
Descartes, Leibnitz,- Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant and
Spencer.
[This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and
General Metaphysics and will be given at the
beginning of the year during the time prescribed
. for these studies.]
' (b) Logic — Hyslop : Elements of Logic.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
&
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
(c) General Metaphysics—Transcendental concepts:
their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one temf
' (d) Cosmology — The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one termf
(yf Theodicy — The existence of God. His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one termf
(f) Student Discussions — From time to time through-
out the year students will be required to read and discuss
papers on various subjects in the field of philosophic
inquiry.
IIL
Principles of Ethics— [Q. if Man’s last End and Happi-
ness; the Purpose of Man in this life. (Q. 2.) Human
Acts; Responsibility; Merit; Obstacles to Human Acts.
[Q 3-) Origin of Morality ; Hedonism ; Altruism ; Sympa-
thy ; Essential Difference between Good and Evil; the
Constituents of Morality; the Eternal Eaw. [Q. 4. ) The
Natural Moral Eaw; its Existence and Characters ; Evolu-
lution. QQ. sf The Positive Eaw. [Q. 6f On Conscience ;
Good Faith ; Doubtful Conscience and Reflex Principles.
[Q. yf Passions in Practical Eife; their Classification;
their Imputability. [Q. 8f The Moral Virtues; Stoicism ;
Epicureanism; Christianity.
(a)	Individual Duties — Notions of Right and Duty.
[Q. i f The Duty of Man to God; Necessity of External
and Public Worship; Obligation of Prayer; the fact of
Sacrifice. (Q. 2f The Duty of Man to Himself; Culture
of the Intelligence, the Will, the Imagination, the
Memory; Care of the body ; Suicide essentially Unlawful.
(Q. 3 f The Duty of Man to his Fellowmen ; on Truthful-
ness and Eying, Homicide and Self-Defence; on Duelling ;
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
33
on Private Ownership, Socialism, Communism, Single
Tax ; on the Right to Honor and Reputation ; on Contracts
and Usury.
(b)	Social Duties—(Q. z.) The Domestic Society and
Marriage; Monogamy ; Polygamy and Divorce; Relations
'between Parents and Children. {Q. 2.} Education: the
Part of the Parents, the Church and the State. (Q. 3.} On
Slavery in Ancient and Modern Times; Duties of Masters
and Servants. (Q. 4.} On Capital and Tabor.
[Five hozirs a week for one term\
IV.
(a)	Moral Sociology — Neccessity of a Public Society;
the City. (5- z-) Origin of the Civil and Political Organi-
zation ; Theories of Hobbes and J. J. Rousseau; source of
authority in Human Society. [Q. 2.} On the Divine
Right of Kings; the Absolute Sovereignty of the People ;
the Reasonable System. (Q. 3.} The different Forms of
Government; the Primitive Polity; the best Form of
Government; Opinions of O. A. Brownson. (£Z 4.} On
Modern Democracy; the Position of the Church; the
Usuipation and Transfer of the Supreme Power; on the
Government de Facto. {Q. 5.) On Depotism ; is it Law-
ful to Resist a Tyrant? Theory of St. Thomas and
Machiavelli on Government. (Q. 6.} The Distinction of
the three Social Powers; Parliamentary and Representative
Government. (Q. 7.) Qualities of a good Ruler; the
Question of the Poor. (Q. 8 } Public liberties ; Freedom
of the Press and of Conscience; the Right of the Sword;
on War and Treaties. (Q. The International Law.
{Q. 10.} Civilization. {Q. 11.} Church and State.
(b)	Government of the United States* — History of the
* This course is sketched according to the principles laid down
in “The American Republic,” by O. A. Brownson, and “The
American Commonwealth, ’ ’ by Mr. Bryce.
34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Constitution; the legislative Department of the U. S.;
the Executive Department of the U. S. ; the President and
the Cabinet; the Judicial Department of the U. S. ; the
Supreme Court; the Rights of the States and the United
States; Jury, Suffrage and Elections; Ballot Systems;
Parties and Party Machinery; Patriotism and Religion.
This Course is for Classical Students.
(c)	History of Philosophy* — Schools and Systems.—
Ancient Philosophy : Pythagoras. — Anaxagoras — The
Sophists and Socrates.—Plato and Aristotle.—Epicurus.
— Zeno. — Pyrrho. — Eclecticism and Neo - Platonism. —
Cicero and Seneca. Philosophy of the Middle Ages —
Christian Platonism; St. Augustine.—Scholasticism: St.
Thomas of Aquin. —Renaissance and Modern Philosophy—
Neo - Platonism. — Francis Bacon — Thomas Hobbes —
Descartes — Spinoza—Eeibnitz—John Eocke. Material-
ism.— David Hume.—Kant and his disciples.—Darwin
and Monism. — A. Comte and Positivism. — Herbert
Spencer. —T. Huxley — Agnosticism and Evolution.
* The text-book used is Dr. Turner's “ History of Philosophy. ”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	35
COURSES IN GREEK*
I*
Lysias—Orations selected. Short history of the Attic
orators.
Homer—Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Lpitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., V. Stoffel.
\^Four hours a week for one termh\
IL
Lysias—Orations selected.-
Homer—Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St* John Chrysostom—Mutropius.
\_Fotir footers a week for one termh\
III*
Herodotus—Selections. Study of Herodotus’s dialect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St* Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
\_Four hours a week for one termh\
IV*
Herodotus—Selections.
Selections from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Compositton.
St* Gregory—Machabees.
[Aw hours a week for one term.
Demosthenes—De Corona. Review of political situa-

36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
tion and events in reference to the oration. Aeschines’
speech against Ctesiphon compared with the speech on
the Crown.
■ \Three hours a week for one term.^
Thucydides—Book I. State and condition of Greece
before the Peloponnesian war. Importance of this war in
Greek history. The speeches in the congress of the allies
held at Sparta in respect to the complaints made against
the Athenians will be carefully analysed and the choicest
specimens of the condensed and vigorous style of
Thucydides will form the subjects for special class inter-
pretations. Stylistic differences between pure Attic and
archaic Attic will be pointed out.
[ Two hours a week for one termO^
N. B. During this course special attention will be
given to Attic syntax. Short introduction to textual and
exegetical criticism practically shown by passages selected
for that purpose. This is done in the belief that it is the
best way to make students appreciate the notes in the
editions of classical authors.
Practical Exercises—Embodying idiomatic expressions
and constructions of the authors read.
[ Twice a month for one term^\
VL
Thucydides—One book selected for each year. Thucy-
dides, the philosopher of history.
[ One hour a week for one termJ\
Aeschylus—One play, to vary each year. In connection
with this will be discussed the origin of the drama.
Aeschylus the real founder of tragedy. The important
part which the chorus holds in the early tragedy. Relig-
ious and moral ideas of Aeschylus, to which Necessity
(fatum ) gives the key - note. The structure of a Greek
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
37
tragedy, the iambic trimeter and the lyric measures will
be sufficiently explained so as to be properly appreciated
by the students. .
Incidentally also the Greek festivals, at which the plays
were represented, and the Dionysiac theatre will be
spoken of.
[ One hour a -week for one termf\ '
Sophocles—Oedipus Tyrannus and Anti gone. Digest
of the Theban legends. Religious views of Sophocles
compared with those of Aeschylus.
[ Two hours a week for one term.
Practical exercises in Greek Composition.
[ Twice a month for one termf\
Elements of Greek Literature—Students shall use Jebb’s
Primer of Greek Literature.
[ Twice a, month for one term. ]
VIL	-
Plato—Apology and Crito. Study of the character of
Socrates,— a philosopher or a sophist? His friends and
enemies. Athenian court - proceedings and jurisprudence.
[ Two hours a week for one termf\
N. B. Students are required to read the symposium of
Plato outside of class.
Euripides—One play, to vary each year. Religious
tendencies of Euripides. His dramatic art. The frequent
resolutions in the lambic Trimeter of Euripides, compared
with those of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Picturesqueness
—the chief element in his plays, as heroic grandetir and
artistic perfection were the characteristic traits in Aeschy-
lus and Sophocles respectively. Euripides’ right to the
title of Scenic Philosopher.	.
f Two hours a week for one term.
38
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Short Introduction to Modern Greet — Reading of
Modern Greek stories and anecdotes. Stoffel.
Lectures in Greek Literature—Based on Christ’s Grie-
chische Litteratur - Geschichte in Iwan v. Muller’s
Handbuch der Klassischen Altertums Wissenschaft.
[ Twice a month for one termf
VIII.
Aristophanes — Two plays, to vary from year to year.
The Acharnians and Knights; the Frog and Clouds; or
the Birds and Wasps. In connection with the reading of
these plays will be treated the Greek comedy,— its origin,
nature and aim. Aristophanes—the great burlesque
critic of Athenian life and manners, political, intellectual,
moral and social. The plays are selected especially in
v:ew of this point. The structure of comedy compared
with the structure of tragedy.
[ Two hours a week for one termf
Euripides — Blectra. With this will be compared and
partially read in class the Blectra of Sophocles and the
Choephori of Aeschylus, on the same subject.
[ One hour a week for one term.~\
Pindar — Selected odes, in connection with which the
public games of Greece will be considered.
[ Elective, one hour a week for one term.~\
QwtSQry Reading of the Greek Fathers — St. Basil —
The Martyr Gordius. St. John Chrysostom- The Return
of Bishop Flavian. St. Gregory Nazianzen — Funeral
Oration of Caesarius.
\_Elective, one hour a week for one termf
Lectures in the history of Greek literature.
[ Twice a month for one termf ■
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
COURSES IN LATIN.
L
Livy — Book XXI. Study of levy’s Grammar and
Style.
Cicero — Epistles selected.
Prose Composition.	'
[Five hours a week for one termi\
IL
Livy — Book XXII.
Cicero— De Senectute and De Amicitia.
Pliny — Epistles selected.
Prose Composition. Writing of continuous prose.
[Five hours a week for one termh\
TIL
Cicero —De Oratore. Book I.
Horace — Odes and Epodes. Study of Metrical Sys-
tems ; Peculiarities of Style; Plan of Composition;
Comparison with Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one termf
IV*
Tacitus — Dialogus De Oratoribus. .
Horace — Odes and Epodes; or, Satires selected. See
Course III.
Terence — Phormio. Short history of Greek and
Roman comedy.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[ Five hozcrs a week for one term^ .
40
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
V.	•
Livy—Roman History, First Book. In the reading of
the text particular attention is called to the rules of
Syntax—roots and derivation of words — and to Ancient
History, Geography and Mythology.
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases or
original. Short fables and stories.
Horace—Epistula ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
criticized from a Philological and Literary standpoint.
Ancient Literature — Historians and Lyric Poets: their
lives, their works, their genius. .
[Five hours a week, for one termh\
VL
Tacitus — Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
Terence — Andria. Sight reading.
Horace — The Literary Epistles.
Weekly practice in written Composition, Latin Con-
versation and Versification.
Ancient Literature—Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Five hours a week for one ternF\
VIL
Quintilian — De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth and
Twelfth. Translation. Explanation embraces a literary
criticism of Grecian and Roman Orators, and practical
remarks on Latin Idioms and the fine arts of Antiquity.
Short Orations or Dissertations, and practical Conver-
sations take place weekly.	'
Plautus — Captivi. The study of the play gives a full
knowledge of the Characters, the plot and the Style, the
archaic Forms, and the Constructions peculiar to the
author.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
41
Ancient Literature — Orators, especially Demosthenes
and Cicero.
\_Five hours a week for one termk\
VIII	.
Cicero — De Officiis. Partly sight reading. Besides
the study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of
Grecian Philosophy, and continual reference is made to
Course III. in Philosophy.
Oratorical and Philosophical Compositions alternate
weekly. Latin Conversation on general topics.
Lucretius—De Rerum Natura. Select passages. Synop-
sis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous
philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the
errors of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature—Philosophers, particularly Socrates,
Plato and Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
^Five hours a week for one terwf
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
I.
(a)	Prose Forms. Special treatment of Exposition and
Argumentation. Genung’s Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part II , and Heydrich’s How to Study Literature'.
[ Three hours a week for one terml\
(b)	Literature. Higginson and Boynton’s.
[ Three hours a week for one termk\
(c)	Lyric Poetry. .
[ One hour a week for two terms?\
42
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IL
(a)	Prose Forms. Special study of the Novel and the
Short Story.
[ Three hours a week for one term.^
(b)	Literature* The Development of English Litera-
ture.
[ Three hoicrs a week for one term.\	' •
(c)	The Sonnet*
[ One hour a week for two terms.]
Ill*
(a)	Prose Forms* Intensive study of the Essay and
the Oration.	‘
[ Three hours a week for one termf
(b)	Literature. Recent English and American Poetry
[ Three hours a week for one termk\
Didactic Poetry and Satire*
[ One hour a week for two tetmsk\
IV*
(a)	The Laws of the Epic and the Drama*
♦ [ Three hours a week for one term. ]
(b)	Shakespeare* Reading and Analysis of the Plays.
[ Three hours a week for one termk\
{z) The Leading Poets of the Nineteenth Century*
[ One hour a week for two terms.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
43
COURSES IN ELOCUTION AND
ORATORY.
L
Readings and Declamations — This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Bach
student will be required to give two declamations.
[ Two hours a week for first term."\ •
IL
Continuation of Course I.—Bach student will be
required to give three declamations.
[ Two hours a week for second term.
III.
Practical Elocution — Bxercises in breathing, voice-
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation and
emphasis and their application in the reading of selections.
Text-book, Pulton and Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
[ Two hours a week for first termk\
IV.
' Continuation of Course III. — Further exercises in
z breathing, voice culture, action. Quality, Force, Pitch
and Time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures
on the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and
Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
.	[jTwo hours a week for second termk\
*	V.
Oral Discussions—The application of Formal Logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
44
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and a
course in Logic are required for admission to this course.
It is limited to 24 students.
[ Two hours a week for first termk\
VL
Shakespearian Reading — The critical and artistic read-
ing of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with stage
action. The students present the play by scenes before
the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for admission
to this course. It is limited to 24 students, and alternates
with course VII. below.
[ Two hours a week for second term?^
VII	.
$
Oratory — A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Bach student is required to write and
deliver a biographical oration on one of the great orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III. and
IV. above and course I. in Bnglish are required for
admission to this course. It is limited to 24 students and
alternates with course VI. above.
[ Two hours a week for second termk\
VIIL
Assembly Work—This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists of
debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptus and drill work in parliamentary law. Wed-
nesday from 1 to 3. One hour credit.
[ Throughout the year. ]

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	45
COURSES IN HISTORY.
L
ANCIENT HISTORY.
(a)	Ancient Greece—To the conquest by Rome of the
Hellenic world. Readings, and examinations on required
texts. This course is given in an alternate year with
Course I. (b).
\_Four hours a week for one year.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the Barbarian invasions. Read-
ings, and examinations on required texts. This course is
given in an alternate year with Course I. (a).
In both courses, the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and to
study the same in De Conlanges’ The Ancient City.
\^Four hours a week for one year.]
II.
MEDIAEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY.
(a)	The History of the Middle Ages from the
invasion of the barbarians, and the history of the periods
of the Renaissance and the Reformation to 1603. Read-
ings, and examinations on required texts.
\JFive hours a week for one year. ]
(b)	The General History of Europe from the begin-
ning of the 17th century to the present time. Readings,
and examinations on required texts.
\_Fiwe hours a week for one year.]
III.
The history of the British Isles to the Revolution of 1689
—Readings, and examinations on required texts. The
Student is required to obtain by direct reading and
examinations • a special knowledge of the development of
46	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the political institutions of Great Britain, using Eeilden’s
Constihctional History.
\_Five hours a week for one yearf
IV.
AMERICAN HISTORY.
(a)	American History from its beginning to 1763—
Readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Four timers a week for five months
(b)	American History from 1763 to the present time—
Readings, lectures and examinations. There is first given
by lectures an outline of the political condition of the
Colonies under the Crown, the causes leading up to the
Revolution in 1776, the Revolution, the political status of
the States after Independence, the Confederation of 1781,
the causes leading to the formation of the Constitution,
and the Constitutional Convention. This is followed by a
thorough treatment of the political history of the United
States since 1789, using as an outline text, Johnson’s
American Politics.
[ Three hours a week for one yeark\
COURSES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE.
(a)
ECONOMICS.
L The Elements of Economics, viz.:— Land, Human
Bxertions and Capital; Value, Money and Credit; Rent,
Interest, Profit and Wages; and Population and Consump-
tion. The text-book used is Walker’s Manual of Political
Economy.
\_Four hours a week for five months.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	47
IL Industrial History and the history of Economic
Thought. Readings, lectures and examinations on
required texts.
[ Three hours a week for one year f\
III.	Money, Credit and Banking, with special treat-
ment of the monetary experience of the United States,
lectures, readings, and examinations on required texts.
\_Four hours a week for five months. ]
IV.	Distribution — A course covering the Rand and
Tabor Questions and Socialism, Lectures, readings and
examinations on required texts.
fFour hours a week for five months.]
(b)
POLITICS.	'
V.	The Elements of Politics—Lectures and examina-
tions on required texts.
[ Two hou/rs a week for five months7\
VI.	The American Constitution and Political Institu-
tions. Lectures, readings, and examinations on required
texts.
[ Two hours a week for one yeari\
VII.	Jurisprudence — A course covering (a) The out-
lines of the Science of Law, (b) The elements of
International Law, and (c) Lectures on selected topics
of Roman and Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and
examinations on required texts.
[ Two hours a week for one year?\
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
VIII.	The Elements of Sociology — Lectures, readings,
and examinations on required texts.
[ Two hours a week for five months.]
48	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN ROMANCE LANGUAGE.
This Course includes the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
Its principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal
special attention will be paid to Philology.
COURSES IN FRENCH.
L
This Course consists in reading, writing short sentences,
explaining the parts of speech, especially the regular
conjugations as well as the more usual irregular verbs,
then translating two at least of the following works :
Houghton’s French by Reading. La Tache du Petit
Pierre. (Mairet). Un Cas de Conscience. (Gervais). La
Main malheureuse. (Guerbef. Sans Famille. (Malot).
Super’s Reading from French History.
\_Five hours a ,week.~\
IL
The intermediate class continues and perfects all the
work of Course I. Dictations and conversations are added
on practical topics, and careful translation made of two or
three of the following works : Le Voyage de M. Perri-
chon. (Labiche). Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre.
(Feuillet). Fables choisies. (La Fontaine). Le Medecin
Malgre’ Lui. (Moliere). Le Cid. (Corneille). Fsther.
(Racine). Pages oubliees de (Chateaubriand). La
Question d’ Argent. (Dumas). .
[ Three hours a weekf
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	49
IIL
The advanced class is devoted chiefly to the prose and
poetry of the XIX century and includes composition, oral
practice and brief notions of Literature. Besides a
translation and criticism of the best writers such as:
Causeries du Lundi. (Ste. Beuve). On Rend 1’ Argent.
(Coppee). Hernani. (Hugo). Meditations. (Lamartine).
Athalie. (Racine). L’Avare. (Moliere). Mlle, de la
Seigliere. (Sandeau). Les Origines de la France Con-
temporaine. (Taine). Expedition de Bonaparte en
Egypte. ( Thiers). Ste. Elisabeth de Hongrie. (Monta-
lembert.
[ Two hours a weekd\
N. B.—The books used are not necessarily the same
every year.
COURSES IN SPANISH,	'
L
Introductory Course — General outlines of grammar with
composition. Translation of easy tales from Trueba,
Fernan Caballero, Perez Escritch, etc., with select Fables
of Samaniego, and Iriarter
[Four hours a week for one year.]
IL
Advanced Course—Spanish Prose and Poetry of the
18th and 19th centuries, with composition and the history
of the literature of the period.	'
[Four hours a week for one year. ]
IIL
Literature of the 16th and 17th centuries: Cervantes,
Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the literature of the
period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
50	■ UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE^DAME. '
Early Spanish — Bl Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the 15th century.
[ Two hozcrs a week for one yea?. ]
COURSES IN ITALIAN.
A two years’ course. The chief work of this course is a
critical study of Dante’s Divina Com media. Reading
from Tasso, Petrarca, Ariosto’s Satires, Manzoni, etc.
COURSES IN PORTUGUESE.
I.
Wall's Portuguese Conversation Grammar — Texts:
Camillo Castello Branco, “Perfil do marquez de Pombal
Pinheiro Chagas, “Novellas Historicas;” Herculano,
‘ 1 Lendas e narrativas; ’ ’ Joao de Deus, 11 Campo de flores. ’ ’
IL
Sermoes do Padre Antonio Vieira; Camoes, “OsLusia-
das. ’ ’ History of Portuguese literature.
COURSES IN OLD FRENCH.
. . * . * .
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying the
formation of the French language from the popular Latin.
For this purpose a work like Bracket’s Grammaire
Historique will be studied. It is under this point of view
that Old French authors will be read, especially La
Chanson de Roland.
COURSES IN PROVENCAL.
Language and literature, with reading from the works
of the Troubadours.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	*51
COURSES IN GERMAN.
L
Grammar—Joynes - Meissner. Marchen und Mrzahlun-
gen, Guerber. Vol. I. and II.
Themes — Original and imitation work.
^Five hours a weekj '
IL
Special Course for students in the Bnglish and Scientific
Courses.
Grammar —Joynes-Meissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[ Three hours a week^\
IIL
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[ Two hours a weekj
COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
L
Algebra—This course includes a study of the binomial
theorem, the theory, of logarithms, choice, chance, var-
iables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
throrough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation, detached, coefficients, surd and imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
____________ «
equations. Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s theo-
52
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
rem; Horner’s method; roots of complex number and
trigonometric solution of cubic equations.
[Five hours a week for oue termk\
IL ■
Analytic Geometry — This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections, their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; higher plane
curves, equations of the third degree ; different systems of .
coordinates ; transformation of- coordinates ; spirals ; an
elementary course in geometry of three dimensions, em-
bracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces of
revolution ; transformation of coordinates; quadric sur-
faces and supplementary propositions.
IIL
Calculus, Differential—This course, as also Courses IV.
and V., is designed to meet the requirements. of Engineer-
ing students. It includes a study by the methods for the
differentiation of algebraic,. logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions; suc-
cessive differentiation and differential coefficients; treat-
ment of implicit and compound functions; expansion of
functions; indeterminate forms; partial differential coef-
ficients of the first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature; radius of curvature; envelopes; singular
points of curves, maxima and minima of functions of oue
independent variable, and of several independent variables ;
tracing curves, differentials of arcs, plane areas, surfaces
and volumes of revolution.
[Five hours a week for one termf
IV+
Calculus? Integral — Integration of elementary forms and
of rational fractions ; integration by’ rationalization and by
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	53
parts ; successive integration ; multiple integrals ; definite
integrals, limits of integration ; double integration applied
to.plane areas; rectification of plane curves; quadratures
of plane areas and surfaces of revolution; surface and
volume of any solid; intrinsic equation of a curve. This
course is supplemented by numerous exercises and
examples.
[Five hours a week for one term.~\
Differential Equations — An elementary course for en-
gineering students, supplementary to the Course of Integral
Calculus. It embraces : equations of the first order and
first degree ; equations of the first order but not of the first
degree; singular solutions; linear equations with constant
coefficients; special forms of equations with higher orders.
Numerous applications to Mechanics and Physics are
introduced during the course.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.I
VI.
Elective Work — The prescribed Courses in Pure
Mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students necessary to constitute a class in
any one subject must be at least five.	.
(a) -Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Chrystal,
(b) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock.
Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d") Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (<?) Differential Equa-
tions, Elementary Course, 'Murray. (/) Advanced Cal-
culus, Byerly, Todhunter, Williamson, (g) Advanced
Analytic Geometry, Salmon. [h) Analytic Geometry of
Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (i) Quater-
nions, Hardy, with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours' recitation a week for one subject.^
54
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
I.
Descriptive Geometry — In this course are considered
problems on the point, right line, and plane; single
curved, double curved, and warped surfaces; problems
relating to tangent planes to single curved, double curved,
and warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces by planes;
tangencies, development of surfaces; spherical projections ;
orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylindrical, and
conic projections; construction of maps, shades and
shadows ; linear perspective ; isometric projections ; theory
and plates. Numerous practical problems and exercises
requiring the application of the principles of Descriptive
Geometry, are added by the instructor.
\Three hours a week for two terms. ]
IL
Surveying—This course comprises the whole theory of
• land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment of
the transit, compass, level, and plane table ; methods of
measuring ; relocation of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions ; obstacles to measurement; computations; field notes
and plots ; laying out land ; parting off land ; dividing up
land ; Public Lands survey.
\Five hours a week for one termb\
III.
Surveying — Field practice and application of theory ;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in
the class-room; practice in keeping field notes; computa-
tions and plots.
\Four hours a week for the spring term.~\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
55
IV*
Higher Surveying — This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of surveying than Course II. and
can not be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
^Engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit and
stadia ; mining surveying; mining claims; survey of mines
with shafts and drifts; determing positions of ends of
tunnels, and depths below surface ; theory of hydrographic
and city surveying; geodetic surveying and leveling;
measuring base lines; adjustments of angles, triangles, and
quadrilaterals ; latitude and azimuth ; time and longitude ;
changing mean time into sidereal time and sidereal time to
mean time. °
\Five hours a ■week for one termh\
V*
Surveying — Bxercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments ; stadia and plane table
surveying in the field, leveling; practice in hydropraphic
surveying.
\Four hours a week for the spring termh\
VL
Railroad Surveying — This course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary sur-
vey for a railroad; theory of maximum economy in grades
and curves; location of curves by deflection angles and
offsets; obstacles to location of curves ; special problems in
curves; theory>of compound curves; turnouts and cross-
ings ; compound transition curves; cubic parabola ; curving
- the rail on curves and elevation of outer rail; easing
grades on curves; vertical curves; earthwork and
prismoidal formula; theory of excavation and embank-
56
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ment; correction in excavation on curves; cross-section
leveling.
[Five hours a week for one terrify
VIL
Railroad Surveying — Exercises in the field; staking out
and running tangents, simple, compound and transition
curves; execution on the ground of many problems previ-
ously treated theoretically ; survey for a short line of rail-
road, leveling, cross-section work, and setting slope stakes ;
making profiles and maps; calculating the necessary ex-
cavations and embankments and cost of construction;
culverts.
[Fozcr hours a week for one termf
VIIL
Analytic Mechanics—The aim of this course is to pre-
pare students of Engineering for the study of the courses
of Applied Mechanics. The course comprises a study of
the fundamental principles of Statics, Kinematics, and
Kinetics. The subjects selected are studied with the
object of thoroughly preparing the engineering students
to pursue the technical and practical branches of their
respective courses. Some of the topics considered in this
course are . work, energy, conservation of energy; power,
composition and resolution of forces, centre of gravity,
centre of mass, moment of inertia, acceleration, dynamics
of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc.
[Five hours a week for one termj\
IX*
Mechanics of Materials — This course^ is intended to
meet the requirements of Engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of forces
on beams and structures, to design economically and intel-
ligently the parts entering into a complete structure. The
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	57
course comprises a study, according to the latest and most
approved methods, of tension and its effect on materials,
compression, theories of flexure and rupture from trans-
verse stress, shearing stress, transverse strength, beams of
uniform resistance, various forms and loaded in any
manner, design and strength of beams and columns, effect
of long continued stresses, and repeated stresses, factor of
safety and working stresses, strength of pipes and cylinders,
theory and practice of riveting, torsion, transmission of
power by shafts, continuous girders, equation of curves of
deflection, theorem of three moments, moment at any
support, the resilience of materials, apparent stresses and
true stresses, etc.
[Five liours a week for one termi\
X.
Bridges and Roofs — This course comprises a study of
the different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses,
and the calculation of the strains produced when loaded in
any manner, the weight of the structure and the effect of
wind included. Both graphical and anaytical methods are
used. Besides the various systems of trussed bridges,
which are studied in detail, the plate girders, suspension
bridges, cantilever bridges, draw bridges, and roofs of
various designs are given equal attention; the purpose
being to familiarize the student with the different forms
and to enable him to design and to estimate the cost of
construction.
[Five howis a week for one tevm.^
XL
Graphical Statics—This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centres of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically determ-
ined by the application of the principles of the force and
58
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
equilibrium polygons; also the determination of stresses in
bridge trusses with parallel chords and with broken chords,
caused by uniform loads and locomotive-wheel loads;
graphical determination of stresses in roof trusses, graph-
ical treatment of the arch, symmetrical and unsymnietrical
cases; graphical method for arch-ribs of hinged ends, and
of fixed ends; stress diagrams; temperature stresses;
braced'arches; graphics applied to continuous girders. This
course is supplemented by full explanations, notes, ex-
amples, and problems.
[Five hours a week for one tenni\
XIL
Engineering — This course is taken by students of Civil
Engineering in the Senior Year, and teaches the principles
of the science of Civil Engineering and the most approved
methods of constructing engineering works, such as piers,
abutments, foundations, coffer dams, reservoir walls; in-
struction as to the types of structures suitable for differ-
ent localities; economy of construction and framing;
properties of building materials, as wood, stone, cement,
brick, iron; methods of testing, methods of preparation,
preservation and cost; construction of masonry arches,
tunnels, sewers, highways, and city streets; discussion of
framed structures of different types ; river and harbor im-
provements ; canals ; seacoast defences.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIIL
Sanitary Engineering — This course is a study of .the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts; shape, material and calcula-
tion of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation;
separate and combined systems compared; pollution of
rivers; chemical precipitation; results and cost of purifi-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
59
cation; general municipal and domestic sanitation; in-
spection of neighboring works.
[Two hours a week for two terms
XIV.
Stereotomy — This course comprises a study of the ap-
plication of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to the
determination of the forms and sizes of the stones used in
the construction of the different classes of arches and
masonry structures. This course is given by lectures in
the Drawing Room, explaining the construction of tem-
plates, and use of directing instrument; also explanations
of methods of drawing plans, elevations, and developments
of oblique arches, wing walls and the like. A certain
number of plates and drawings is required, illustrating the
methods of performing practical work.
[Two hours a week for one iermf
XV.
Hydromechanics — This course is a thorough study of
the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrodynamics,
to which are added many practical exercises. The sub-
jects considered are the transmissiom of presures, centre
of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of various
shapes; fluid friction; Bernoulli’s theorem with friction;
Chezy’s formula; Rutter’s formula ; flow over weirs, and
through tubes ; flow in pipes; loss of head in friction and
other losses; flow in conduits, canals, and rivers; veloci-
ties in cross section; methods of gauging the flow,
measurement of water power, dynamic pressure of flowing
water; designing of waterworks and standpipes; hydraulic
motors and relative merits; discussion of water wheels
of different types, and a study of the conditions determin-
ing high efficiences; classification of turbines, and a
complete study and discussion of the different forms.
[Three hozirs a week for two terms
60	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
XVL
Geodesy — This is an elementary course prescribed for
Civil Engineering students in the Junior Year, and com-
prises a study of the instruments and methods of observa-
tion, base measurements and field work of the triangulation.;
method of least squares, elementary course ; calculation of
the triangulation, and theory of probable errors; geodetic
latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is followed by a
brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
[Four hours a week for one termk\
COURSES IN ASTRONOMY.
Astronomy — Practical. This course is designed to meet
’ the requirements of Civil Engineering students and to
give them the training and information necessary for
intelligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their pro-
fessional career. The course comprises a study of
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of more
precision than those used in ordinary surveying. The
adjustments and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computation; problems in finding right ascension and
declination; different methods for finding latitude, longi-
tude and time are studied in detail, and the methods of
making the observations and their adjustments, and dis-
cussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into sidereal,
and sidereal time into solar. In connection with this
subject is given a more complete study of many of the
topics considered in elementary astronomy, as here they
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
6l
are treated mathematically ; as for example, methods for
finding parallax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and
correction for refraction. The subjects of precession,—
nutation—annual aberration—proper motion of stars,
etc., are studied.
\Three hours a week for one tenn^\
COURSES IN MECHANICAL ENGINEER-
ING.
I.
Thermodynamics — The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The ap-
plications of this preliminary work are then dwelt upon,
and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refrigerating
machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in detail. Fre-
quent reference is made to trade catalogues, of which an
abundant supply should be obtained by the student.
\_Five hours a week for one ternif
IL
Materials of Engineering — This course, supplemented
by shop work and laboratory work in testing materials of
construction, is designed with the purpose of acquainting
the student with the properties of the materials he will use
in his profession. Tensile and shearing strength, elasticity
and resistance are studied, together with the effects of
strain, intermittent loading and impact. The process of
manufacture of the most important materials is taken up
62	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
and estimates of the cost of construction at the market
prices complete the work. Thurston’s Materials of En-
gineering is the text-book used.
[Two hours a week for one termf
III.
Steam Engine Design—In this course the forms and
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines for
specific work are taken up, which give the student a thor-
ough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest
researches and contemporary practice may be consulted in
the numerous publications found in the University Library.
During the first term of the Senior Year is required the
complete design with working drawings of a simple non-
condensing steam engine for a specific purpose. The
second term is given to designing a multiple expansion,
jacketed, condensing engine for marine service. The text-
book used is Whitham’s Steam Engine Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms
IV.
Steam Boilers — This subject is treated much as that of
the steam engine. The determination of sizes of parts
from consideration of strains, thickness of shells, size of
rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of connection
of boilers with efficiency of furnance and life of boiler, are
some of the subjects considered. The method of determ-
ining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface, heights of
chimneys, boiler settings and materials used in construction
are also discussed.
[Three hows a week for one termS\
Kinematics — This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	63
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining of
✓
the parts to move these paths. The general theory is then
applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative motion of
machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys, speed
cones, link work and other aggregate combinations. Barr’s
Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book used.
\Five hours a week for one termh\
VI.
Machine Design — This work involves a study of the
form and strength of machine parts as applied in designing
with computation of dimensions for fastenings, bearings,
rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc. The deriva-
tion of rational formulae and the determination of empirical
formulae are included and applied in designing. The
text-books used are Unwin’s Elements of Machine Design,
Lows’s Hand Book for Mechanical Engineers, and Reed’s
Machine Design and Drawing.
\Three hours a week for one termb\
VII.
Valve Gears—This course includes a complete study of
the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hack worth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are
treated in the same way and in conclusion the student is
made .familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text-book is
Halsey’s Valve Gears.
\_Two hours a week for one termh\
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory—The work taken up includes a
study of the methods of testing the steam engine under
varying running conditions, valve setting, calibration of
thermometers, gauges and indicator springs, use of Pony
64	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
brake, Weber and Emerson dynamometers, Pelton water
wheel, Wier calibration, etc. Text-book, Carpenter’s
Experimental Engineering.
\_One afternoon each week for one termb\
*	ix. .	■
Thesis — Each candidate for a degree in this department
must present for graduation a thesis of considerable mag-
nitude which will exhibit his knowledge of the course he
has followed. It may embrace designing, experimental
investigation or original research in a subject selected by
the student and approved by the Professor. The major
part of the second term, Senior Year, is devoted to this
work, and graduation is conditional upon the knowledge
of Mechanical Engineering displayed in its preparation.
\Twelve hours a week for one termb\
X	.
STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
A briefer course in the study of boilers and steam
engines designed to familiarize the student with the dif-
ferent types in use and their respective merits. Only that
theory is taken up which is necessary to the working out
of practical problems, the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves with
an abundant supply of trade catalogues.
\Three hours a week for one term.~\
XL
SHOPWORK.
(a)	Woodwork — Exercises in planing, sawing, splic-
ing, framing, scroll-sawing and turning.
\Three hours a week for one year.]
(b)	Applications of Carpentry to pattern-making, cores,
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints, cranks and
bearings.
{Three hours a week for one term?^
(c)	Foundry Practice — Setting up and drawing simple
and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating and pour-
ing metals for different purposes. Core making. .
{Three hours a week for one terwf
(d)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
{Three hours a week for one termk\
{z) Benchwork in iron, including surface-chipping, key-
setting, draw-filing, scraping and polishing.
{Three hours a week for one yearh\
(f) Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shaping and mill-
ing machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers,
taps, twist-drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
{Three hours a week for one year
COURSES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEER-
ING.
I.
Applied Electricity — A course of lectures and recitations,
supplemented by laboratory practice, on the general theory
of electricity and magnetism and its application to practical
work, as follows: Setting up and testing primary and
secondary batteries, systems of call bells, electric gas
lighting appliances, fire and burglar alarms, telegraph and
telephone lines, switchboards and accessories.
Experiments with induction coils, magnets, switches,
voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers
66
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
and other measuring intruments. The study of direct
current generators and motors, arc and incandescent light-
ing systems, street railway machinery and appliances,
electric heating and forging, electrolytic processes, etc.
[Five hours a week for two terms.\
IL
Applied Electricity — Lectures and laboratory work on
the construction and testing of switches, magnets, meas-
uring instruments, induction coils, etc. The calculation of
sizes of wire and location of circuits for lighting and
power, the experimental study of alternating current
machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the fitting
and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally testing
for insulation, efficiency and adaptability to special pur-
poses. This course must be preceded by Course I. Both
I. and II. are required in the Short Course in Electrical
Engineering; they are elective for general students and
those studying telegraphy.
[Five hours a week for two terms
III.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery — Recitations on the phys-
ical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions and
reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points, theory
of armature winding, the mathematical theory of alternat-
ing currents, phase relations, modern forms of single phase
and multiphase generators and motors, design of trans-
formers.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV*
Electrical Laboratory — Practical work at wiring build-
ings for lights and power, testing circuits for insulation
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
67
and grounds, construction and operation of storage
batteries, management and care of dynamos, characteristic
curves of particular machines under different conditions,
efficiency tests of motors by absorption dynamometer
methods, alternating current dynamo and transformer
tests, the testing of storage batteries, and complete
plant-efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken.
[Five hours a week for two terms.\
V.
Drawing — The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance, and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of
circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawings of
direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[ Three honrs a week for two terms. ]
COURSES IN ARCHITECTURE.
I.
History of Architecture — This course comprises a study
of the early beginnings, growth and development of
Architecture. It includes Ethnography as applied to
Architectural Art, Ancient Architecture, Egyptian Archi-
tecture, Assyrian Architecture, Grecian Architecture,
Etruscan, Roman and Sassanian Architecture, Christian
Architecture, France, Belgium and Holland, Germany,
Scandinavia, England, Spain and Portugal, Italy, Saracenic
and Ancient American Architecture, Byzantine Architec-
ture. The structural features, ornamentations, use arid
68
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
purpose of the more noted structures, material used in the
different styles, all are studied in detail, instructing the
student in everything worthy of consideration in connec-
tion with architecture and its practical applications. The
course is given by lectures and recitations.
[ Two hours a week for four terms f
IL
The Orders of Architecture—This course is a study of
the Five Orders of Architecture and is given by lectures,
recitations and drawing. The study embraces a thorough
analysis of each Order, in which the principal and distin-
guishing features of each are clearly shown and comparisons
made. Also a study in detail of the forms and proportions
characterizing each is made in the class room. Problems
pertaining to the Orders are given in the Drawing Room,
and detail drawings and coloring made.
[ Two hours recitation a week for two terms; two hours
drawing a week for two terms.]
IIL
Design—The study of problems in architectural design,
embodying the subjects of composition and form. This
course expands from Blementary Design (second year)
to Advanced Design and Thesis Work (fourth year), and
includes the handling of design in monumental structures,
and its application to modern buildings, such as hospitals,
theatres, municipal buildings, libraries, churches, etc.
[ Two, five and ten hours a zveek, for first, second and third
yearsd\
IV*
Heating and Ventilation — This course is a study of the
theory and practice of heating and ventilating public
buildings and dwelling houses. The different systems of
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
69
heating,— furnace heating, hot water, steam, etc.,—are
carefully examined and studied. The radiation of heat
from surfaces, the different systems of piping, condition
of air as to moisture, amount of air required, causes and
sources of impure air, and best means adopted to secure
pure air; the necessity for good ventilation. and the latest
approved methods for securing this all important feature
are some of the topics considered in this study.
[ Three hcmrs a week for one termh\
N,
Advanced Construction Designing — This course is a
study of the properties of the building stones, iron and
steel, that are used in structures, including the cements,
paints, and preservatives, in use. The methods of
quarrying and testing building stones, manufacturing and
testing brick and cement, the different methods of manu-
facturing and testing iron and steel, are briefly considered.
Then the subject of foundations is given a careful study,
wherein are taught methods of ascertaining the character
and bearing power of strata below the surface; methods
and materials used in building foundations; piles and
their use in foundations; enlarging or spreading the base
of the foundation ; suitableness of foundations for struc-
tures of different classes. These are some of the subjects
studied in this course given both by lecture and text-book.
,	[ Three hours a week for one tennf
~	VL
Theory of the Arch — This course comprises a complete
study of the theory of the linear arch, wherein are
considered the nature of the loading and resulting
stresses, and the application of the results to the loaded
arch; then is studied the design of the arch, finding the
line of pressures, etc. This course is given by recitation
and drawing.
[ Two hours a week for one termh\
a
7° .
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
VIL
Specifications and Working; Drawings—This course is
for the purpose of instructing the student to prepare
according to the best approved methods, written specifica-
tions for structures, and the necessary contracts in
connection with the same. It includes a study of the
forms, general features, and leading clauses, of specifica-
tions, classifications of building materials, labor, duties of
superintendents, the best methods of making estimates,
and the common relations of owners, contractors, architects
and superintendents. This course is given by lectures
and recitations and practical exercises in writing contracts
and specifications.
[ Two hours a week for one terrnf
VIIL
Materials — Lectures on building materials, their use,
manufacture and treatment.
[ Two hours a week for one termh\
IX	.
Structural Design — Lectures and exercises on the
subject of planning various kinds of buildings and the
relation between the construction and the exigencies of a
design,
o
[ One hour a week for one termk\
History of'Ornament — Lectures on the origin and
evolution of ornament and the application of same,
together with exercises in motive.
[ One hozir a zveek for one termf
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
71 ’
COURSES IN ARTISTIC DRAWING.
Ill this department the aim is to lay a thorough founda-
tion in drawing for those who want to make Art a
profession, but the courses are so arranged as to be
accessible to other students. The system of teaching,
which is that followed in the best art schools, is
intended to develop the individuality of each student, so
that with a good understanding of the principles of art he
may interpret nature according to his own temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, object, and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer many
beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes, and the
classes are taken out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new one,
which was carefully selected at the National School of
Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
Full Figure — The Diadumenos (British Museum);
the Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full
size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically : The
Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michel-
angelo; the Achilles ; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre),
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Bustsand Heads—Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol); Cato (Rome, the Vatican); Cicero (Rome,
the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa (Lou-
vre); Venus (Vatican); A Centurion (Naples); Ariadne
(the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples); a Vestal
(Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters of
Niobe (Florence).
^0.	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides, there is a complete set of decorative and archi-
tectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity,
the middle ages and the Renaissance, and of elements of
the human figure (hands, feet, etc.) from the antique,
and some anatomical pieces.
COURSE L
Elementary Class.
(a)	Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geomet-
rical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentels, etc. Sketching
from simple objects.
(b)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from nature leaves ^.nd flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on per-
spective, direction of the principal lines in relation to the
horizon. Elementary notions on the five orders of
architecture.
(	d) Drawing from casts of the human figure : hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
COURSE IL
Antique Class.
(a) Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape. Appli-
cations of perspective.
( b ) Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching
from the costumed model. Still life in water, colors.
History of art.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
73
COURSE EL
Life Class.
Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy. Anatomical
studies from the collections of Science Hall. Still life
painting in water colors and oil. Landscape painting.
Drawing for illustration.
Sketch Class—One hour a week. This class is open
also to the students in the Mechanical Drawing classes.
The students have themselves an organization, “The
Crayon Club,” the object of which is to sketch College
scenes and to do illustrative work: these sketches are
brought into class and criticised.
Class of Decorative Design — The object of this depart-
ment is to prepare students for professional work in
decorative designings of all kinds. They will take up the
study of historical ornaments and will be taught the
general principles of the arrangement of design, and from
personal sketches of plants and flowers will be shown the
art of making original designs for wall paper, book
covers, stained glass, carpets, interior decorations, metal
plates, etc. No particular programme is given out as the
teaching is purely individual.
COURSES IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may be
trained in Outline Drawing in pencil and pen. Then
follows the study of light and shade.	.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the use
74
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
of instruments is take up. Beginning with the instru-
ments, attention is given to accurate draughtmanship upon
plates, illustrating problems in Civil, Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering This work is continued
throughout the Courses.
[ Two hours of actual time in drawing arc required for each
hour on the schedule^
L '
Freehand—The work consists of sketching with pencil
and pen from flat copies and models of machine parts, and
freehand lettering. Later in the term, the use of instru-
ments, section-lining and lettering are taught.
\Three hours a week for one termd\
IL
Projection Drawing — The work embraces the princi-
ples of projections, methods of shop-drawing, tinting,
tracing, blue printing, line-shading and the preparation of
working drawings of complete machines. This Course
must be preceded by Course I.	•	‘
\fThree hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry — A series of accurate plates are
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective and
isometric projections. (Students in Architecture will be
required to do advanced work in shades and shadows and
perspective.)
\f)ne hour a week for first termy and two hours a week for
second termf
.	IV.
Kinematic Drawing—Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involving
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	75
the application of kinematics and the computation of
dimensions.
[ Two hours a week for two termsk\
'	V.
Topography — Pen and colored topographical drawing,
conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken from
surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I.
[Three hours a, week for one termk\
VL
Masonry—Drawing and designing plans, elevations
and sections of masonry constructions, foundations, dams,
piers, abutments, culverts and arches.
[ Three houts a week for one termk\
VIL
Bridge Designing — Proceeding from simple framed
girders to complete bridge - trusses of various designs.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
’	VIIL
Freehand — The principles of freehand drawing in pencil
and pen from objects, and later from biological specimens,
plants, animals and microscopical preparations.
[ Two hours a, week for two terms
IX.
Freehand — Advanced drawing from plants and anatom-
ical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publications.
[ Two hours a week for two terms f\
X.
Water Color — Drawing in water color from still life
and nature.
[Two hours a week for one termf

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
XL
Rendering- in Water Color — The rendering of architect-
ural drawings, including perspectives;—casting of shadows,
color treatments of buildings, and handling of foreground
and background.
[ Two hours a week for one termh\
XII*
Pen and Ink—R.endering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art; fol-
lowed by rendering of original drawings.
\One hour a week for four termsh\
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.
(Jn the description of these courses, an '‘'‘hour" means
two sixty-minute periods in the laboratory or one in the
lecture room.)
L
(a)	General Chemistry — A minor Course dealing with
the general principles of the science and embracing a
study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book, Remsen's Elements of Chemistry.
\_Four hours a week for one term.~\
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the laboratoy
the work of the Lecture Course (la) and designed to
accompany it.
£ One hour a week for one term. ]
IL
(a)	General Descriptive Chemistry—Recitations and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	77
experimental lectures treating of the fundamental princi-
ples of chemistry, and designed to meet the requirements
of the students of the Engineering Course. Text-book,
Remsen's Briefer Course.
\Three hours a week for two terms f
(b)	A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the needs of
Engineering students.
[ Two hours a week for tzvo terms f
III.
(a)	Advanced Inorganic Chemistry — Tor Biological
and General Science students Lectures and recitations.
A complete study of the elements and their most import-
ant compounds, following the classification based on
Mendeleefi’s Law, and including a thorough discussion of
the theories of the science. Careful attention is given to
the technical chemical processes and industries, and to
the writing of chemical reactions. Text-book, New th's
Inorganic Chemistry.
[ Two hours a week for two tez ms ]
(b)	Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course (Illa) the work consisting of the
preparation by the student, of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chemistry ,
etc. During the latter part of the Course, special atten-
tion is given to the characteristic reactions of the metals
and to the principles of chemical analysis. Text-book,
Thorp.
[ Two hours a week, with disczcssion, for two terms.]
IV.
Qualitative Analysis — The wTork of this Course com-
prises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions
£
involved in the separation and detection of the more
78	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
common inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts,
mixtures of salts, and complex substances such as earths,
ores, ashes, etc. Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by
lectures.
[Five hours a week, with recitation^, for one term.~\
V.
Quantitative Analysis — A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and volume-
trically. Complete analysis of a number of simple salts
like Barium Chloride, with partial analysis of substances
such as steel, lye, drinking - water, etc. Reference - book,
Fresenius.
[Five hours a week, with recitation, for one termk\
VI.
(a)	Organic Chemistry — Lectures and recitations. A
systematic study of the compounds of Carbon by the
student and the investigation of their properties. This
Course may be taken without the accompanying Labora-
tory work. Text-book, Remsen.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
(b)	Experimental Organic Chemistry — A Course
fitted to accompany Course (Via), involving the prepara-
tion by the student in the laboratory of the more important
and typical organic compounds and the investigation of
their properties. Ultimate organic analysis. Text-book,
Gattermann.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
VIL
Urinary Analysis and Toxicology — A Course of Labor-
atory exercises in the methods employed in the detection
and estimation of the constituents of the urine, and of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
79
alkaloids and principal organic poisons. Text-book,
Schimpf.
[ Five hours a week for one terml\
VIII*
Technical Chemical Analysis—An advanced course,
intended for students of General Science, specializing in
chemistry. Special courses in gas analysis, water analy-
sis, sugar analysis, commercial organic analysis, etc., at
the option of the student.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for both terms.~\
IX*
Organic Chemistry — Chiefly laboratory work. ' An
advanced course, intended for General Science students
specializing in chemistry.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for both terms. ]
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry — In this course, the
chemical bases and their compounds are considered, with
special reference to their importance in Pharmacy and
Materia Medica. Text-book, Sadtlers’ and Trimble's
Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
[Five hours a week for first termi\
80	' UNIVERSITY' OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN PHYSICS.
L
Physics — A complete course of recitations and lectures,
including mechanics, heat, sound, light, electricity, and
magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experiments.
[Five hozcrs a week for one termk\
IL
General Physics — In this course there is a more ex-
tended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to physical
phenomena. Special' attention is paid to accuracy in the
mathematical work and in the statements of the principles
involved. lectures and recitations.
[77zr^ hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physical Problems — The application of mathematics in
physical work. Measurements of length, mass and time.
Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and
magnetism. The work is done in the laboratory and the
student is taught to depend on his own resources and to
check his results.
[Two hours a week for two terms. ]
IV.
Physical Laboratory — Special advanced work in heat,
light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism. Ac-
curacy in observations and in the calculation and recording
of results is required. Students may specialize here
according to the college course which they are following.
This course must be preceded by Courses II. and III. For
list of apparatus see page 14.	.
[Three hours a week for two terms. ]
9
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	81
COURSES IN BOTANY.
I.
Botany — lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed. The develop-
ment of the embryo and the processes of pollination and
fertilization. The study of the vegetable cell, of its pro-
ducts, of cell formation, of plant tissues, and the various
physiological phenomena. The structure and reproduction
of the Algae, Fungi, Mosses and Ferns. The analysis of
Phanerogams occupies the time during the spring months,
and the student is made familiar with the local flora. Text-
books, Bastin’s College Botany and Gray’s Manual,
\_Fiwe hours a week for two terms.]
IL
• Botanical Laboratory—Supplementary to Course I.
Special work on the Thallophyta and Bryophyta. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become more familiar with their
morphology, structure, etc. This course is to accompany
or be preceded by Course I. Provision is also made in this
course for Pharmacy students to take a special laboratory
course in Pharmaceutical Botany.
[ One hour a week for one termb\
IIL
Botany—Lectures, recitations and laboratory work.
The work in this course is essentially the same as that laid
out in Strasburger’s text-book of Botany. Special work is
required in one particular group of plants. Herbarium
study is encouraged as well as the collecting and preparing
82	UNIVERSITY OB NOTRE DAME.
of plants Tor preservation. During the spring months
frequent excursions are made into the neighboring fields
and woods and the local aquatic and land flora are collected
and studied.
[Four recitation and two laboratory hours a week for two
terms.]
COURSES IN ZOOLOGY.
I.
Zoology — Lectures and recitations. General ideas on
the animal kingdom. Animals and plants defined. The
homology and analogy between the organs and parts of
animals. The morphology, classification, structure, de-
velopment and relationship of the types of vertebrates and
invertebrates. Text-book, Nicholson.
[Five hours a week for one termf
IL
Invertebrate Zoology — Lectures, recitations and labora-
tory work. In this course there is an extended treatment
of Invertebrates. Dissection of the different types of higher
forms Careful notes and drawings are made from these
dissections. Opportunity is given to carry on systematic
work on the different groups contained in the University
Museum. Text-book, Thompson.
[Three recitation and tzvo laboratory hours a week for one
termb\
III.	.
Vertebrate Zoology — Lectures, recitations and labor-
atory work. This course consists of a thorough study of
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	83
the morphology, structure and classification of the verte-
brated animals. A type from each group of the vertebrates
is selected for dissection and comparative study. In the
latter part of this course the student is required to make a
special study of Mammalian Osteology from prepared skele-
tons in the University Museum. Text-books, Thompson,
and Parker & Haswell.
\Three recitation and two laboratory hours a week for one
'	temnb\
IV.
Mammalian Anatomy — This course has been specially
provided for students preparing themselves for a medical
course. The work consists of demonstrations and thor-
ough dissections on the anatomy of the cat or some
selected Mammal.
[Two laboratory hoiirs a week for six weeks.]
V.
Comparative Embryology — Lectures and laboratory
work. A study of the developmental history of inverte-
brafes, including a comparison of the germ-cell and
sperm-cell in different types of animals. The maturation
and fertilization of the ovum. Mitosis and segmentation.
The development of the Ectoderm, Mesoderm, and En-
doderm compared in the types of invertebrates, differen-
tiation of tissues, development of the embryo, etc. Special
wTork on the embryology of a vertebrate—Tish, Bird or
Mammal.
[ Three hours a week for one term. ]
84	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN GENERAL BIOLOGY*
I.
Cytology—Lectures and laboratory work. History of
the cell, cell structure, organization, activity, and mitosis
IL
General Biology — Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work. The forms of animals and plants compared as to
structure, function, and relationship of parts. Animal and
plant dissection. Biogenesis and Abiogenesis, Homogenesis
and Heterogenesis. The alternation of generation in dif-
ferent forms of animals and plants worked out. The
theories of evolution are discussed in this course. Text-
book, Parker. ^Courses I. and II. together, three laboratory
hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN MICROSCOPY*
I*
Microscopy —Lectures and laboratory work. Refraction
and dispersion of light and illumination. The index of
refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for
advanced work; immersion and adjustable objectives,
camera lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers,
etc. Special work in photo-micrography. Text-book,
Gage.
\Three hours a week for one term ]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	85
IL
Micro - Chemistry — Laboratory work. The preparation
of micro-chemical reagents and their application in testing,
fixing, hardening, staining, clearing, and mounting tissues
and organs.
\One laboratory hour a week for one termf\
COURSES IN HUMAN ANATOMY.
I.
Human Histology — Taboratory work and demonstra-
tions. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Courses in Human Physiology.
IL
Human Histology — Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work. The work covers a thorough course in Normal
Histology with the methods of hardening, staining, em-
bedding, section cutting and mounting of tissues. Careful
work on the nervous system—brain and spinal cord,
termination of nerve fibres, etc. Drawings made from
each preparation. Text-book, Pier sol.
\Two laboratory hours a week for one termf\
III.
Human Anatomy — Lectures and recitations. Osteology
and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular, vascular and
nervous systems and of the organs of special sense. The
anatomy of the viscera. Text-book, Gray.
\Three hoicrs a week for four terms.]
86
UNIVERSITY OT NO.TRE DAME.
COURSES IN HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY.
I.
Physiology— lectures, recitations and laboratory work.
The study of the human skeleton including the physiology
and hygiene of the bones. The action, relation, structure
and hygiene of the muscular, digestive, circulatory and ex-
cretory systems. The anatomy and structure of the
nervous system. All the work is supplemented by experi-
ments and microscopic examinations made by the student.
The demonstrations are facilitated by the use of models,
charts and manakins. Material for dissection is introduced
into the work in order to give a more correct and fixed
understanding of the study. This course is to be accom-
panied by Course I. under Courses in Human Anatomy.
Text-book, Thornton’s Physiology.
\_Three laboratory hours a week for one term.\
.	IL
Hygiene — lectures on personal, domestic and munici-
pal hygiene.
\One hour a week for one termf
IIL
Physiology — Lectures, recitations and experimental
work. A more advanced course than Course I. on
alimentation, deglutition, stomach and intestinal digestion,
action of bile and pancreatic juice, absorption, properties
of lymph and chyle, secretion, excretion, animal heat and
its sources. The physiological divisions and structure of
the nervous system. Motor and sensory nerves. .Physio-
logical anatomy of the spinal cord. General arrangement
and function of the sympathetic system, etc.
\Two hours a week for two terms. ]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
87
COURSE IN BACTERIOLOGY.
Lectures and Laboratory Work—Lectures on the form,
structure, reproduction and classification of Bacteria. The
relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The principles of
sterilization, thermal and chemical, are pointed out. The
early part of the laboratory work is occupied in the prepara-
tion of the various culture-media and in studying pure
cultures of certain non-pathogenic bacteria in these media.
Observations on the microscopic characteristics of bacteria
and special attention to the microscopic technique required
in Bacteriological work. Later on in the course some time
is devoted to practice in isolation and identification of
pathogenic bacteria. Lmphasis is given to the detection of
fl
pathogenic germs by the various staining processes. Inocu-
lation of animals. Bacteriogical investigation of water,
air and soil. Text-book, Abbott’s Principles of Bacteriology. •
[ Three laboratory hozirs a -week for one term^
COURSES IN GEOLOGY.
I.
Mineralogy—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory work.
A study of crystallography and the classification of
minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory and
museum in the determination of minerals, especially the
ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Moses & Parsons.
[Two hours a week for one termf
88
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
IL
Assaying- — Chiefly laboratory work.. Furnace assaying
of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Ricketts.
[ Two laboratory hotters a week for one term. ]
IIL
Geology—Lectures and recitations. The study of the
general features of the earth. The material composing the
accessible parts of the earth. The arrangement of the
material in rocks. The causes of geological changes. The
history of the earth and the various forms of life that
existed in the different periods of successive geological
ages. Text-book, Dana.
\Five hoztrs a week for one termk\
COURSES IN PHARMACY.
I	.
Elements of Pharmacy — Lectures and recitations on the
art and science of Pharmacy, and demonstrations of the
various Pharmaceutical processes. Text-book, Remington’s
Practice of Pharmacy.
\Three hours a week for two terms.]
IL
Galenical Pharmacy — A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the manu-
facture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia, and of unofficial and N. F. preparations.
\Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
89
IIL
Inorganic Pharmacy—Laboratory, demonstrations and
recitations. A thorough course in the preparation and
testing of Pharmaceutical and Technical Chemicals.
[ Six hours a week for one temk\
IV	.
General Pharmacy—A systematic classification of or-
ganic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two temst]
V	-
Magistral Pharmacy—Includes the manifold methods
of extemporaneous Pharmacy with consideration of in-
compatibility, posology, and the principles of Blegant
Pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[ Three hours a week for one term. ] .
VL
Pharmaceutical Chemistry — Chiefly assaying, testing
and manufacturing. Some attention is given, however,
to toilet and commercial preparations with a view to the
invention and development of original formulas.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
VIL
General Pharmacy — Pharmaceutical analysis and as-
saying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectroscopic
estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of manufacture.
[Five hoi^rs a week for one termk\
VIIL
Materia Medica, Pharmacognosy, and Therapeutics—
L Materia Medica — A detailed consideration of medi-
cinal substances, their constituents and use.
90
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IL Pharmacognosy— The identification of drugs by
their physical properties with special reference to quality.
IIL Therapeutics — With reference to Therapeutic
action, dose, and antidote, drugs will be studied in groups
as well as individually.
\Two hours a week for one termh\ ,
COURSES IN MUSIC.
FIRST YEAR.
I	.
Violin—Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
IL
Pianoforte—Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School. Studies
by Roeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas and
easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke and Mozart.
Jugend album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
IIL
Voice - Production — Tone - placing. Diaphragmatic
breath-control. Articulation. Text-books: Shakespeare's
Art of Singing. Part L; Kofler’s Art of Breathing ;
Studies by Bassini ; English Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading — Elementary theory of Music.
Intervals, and Ear - Training. Choir Practice.
IV	.
Organ—Rink’s Organ School. Eugene Thayer’s Studies,
Light Preludes and Fugties by Bach.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
91
SECOND YEAR,
la.
Violin — Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont, Sonatas
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven and Mozart.
Ila.
Pianoforte — Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert, Le-
couppy, Cramer and Krause, Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s Preludes, Fugues and Inventions. Sonatas and
Pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann and Schubert.
Illa.
Voice - Production — Advanced Breathing Exercises.
Study of the Chest and Falsetto registers. Stroke of the
Glottis. Text-Books: Shakespeare’s Art of Singing, Parts
II. axAIIL; Studies from Italian Operas; French and
English Songs.	‘
Vocal Sight Reading — Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in Operatic Chorus - work.
•	IVa.
Organ—Schneider-Warren’s Pedal Studies. Easy sona-
tas by Mendelssohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes and
Fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.
V.
Harmony — Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
ization of melodies. Harmonizing from figured bass.
Text-books, Goetschius’ Tone Relations, Logier’s Harmony.
THIRD YEAR.
Ib.
Violin — Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alard, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelssohn, Dvorak.
Q2	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
lib*
Pianoforte—Gradtis ad Parnassum, Clementi-Tausig.
Das Wohl Temperste Klavier by Bach. . English and
French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Haberbier and Henselt.
Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven, Weber, Men-
delssohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
mu
Voice - Production—Study of the Trill, Mordent, Grup-
petto, etc. Messa di Voce.
IVK
Organ — Sonatas, Preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert Pieces by Hsendel, Merkel, Salome,
Whiting, Best, Rheinberger.
Va*
Harmony—(Counterpoint,) Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon.
Fugue.
FOURTH YEAR*
Ic.
Violin — Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces by
Beethoven, Brahms, Bruch, Joachim and others.
lie*
Pianoforte—Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos, and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
IIIc.
Organ — The greater Preludes, Fantasies and Fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Guilment and Saint-Saens.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
93
IVE
Harmony—(Composition.) Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the Sonata, Rondo, etc. Practical application
in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
INSTRUMENTS.
Instruction is also given on the Viola, Flute, Piccolo,
Cornet, Trombone, Guitar and Mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of playing
in the University Orchestra and Band.
' THE SINGING CLASS.
There is an organization of musical students open to
those only taking lessons in vocal music; the choir is
selected from the members of this class.
Requirements for the Degree of Bachelor of Music.
i.	The candidate must have studied music in the
University during the last year of his course.
2.	He must have a thorough theoretic knowledge of
four instruments mentioned in the courses described above,
and a practical mastery of one of them.
3.	He must pass a written examination in Harmony,
Counterpoint and Composition.
4.	He must submit to the examiner two original
compositions: (a) a fugue for full orchestra, or for four
voices with independent orchestral accompaniment; (b) a
composition in the free form ( sonata or rondo ) for piano-
forte, or a trio (pianoforte, violin and violincello).
94	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY.
All Catholic Students are obliged to attend the Courses
in Evidences of Christianity.
The text-book used in the Senior year is Spalding’s
Church History—Lectures on Apologetics.
In the junior year, Hand-book op the Christian Religion,
by Wilmers, is used.
A two-years’ course in Exposition of Christian Doctrine
( Moral'} precedes the Junior course.
In the Preparatory School, Bible History and Advanced
Catechism {O' Brien ), are used.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGIATE COURSES.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admission
to the University are held at Notre Dame in September, at
the beginning of the Fall term.
Certificates of work done in public or private schools
will not be accepted instead of examinations, unless the
applicant has passed the final examination after a full
course in his school, and the University Faculty are
satisfied with the standing of the school.
Graduate students of High Schools that are fully accredited
to the State Univer sities, will be admitted withozd examina-
tion to the Freshman year of any course to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Applicants for advanced standing that present certificates
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
95
from other colleges or universities may be received at the
discretion of the Faculty with or without examination as
regards particular cases.
No student will be received as a candidate for the degree
of Bachelor after the beginning of the Senior year unless
he passes an examination in the Metaphysics and Bthics
already studied by the Senior class of the University.
No student will be admitted to any course of the Senior
year until all conditiovs have been cancelled.	'
Catholic Students that are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences
of Religion*
CONDITIONAL ADMISSION TO FRESHMAN
CLASSES*
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations in
one or more of the subjects required for admission to any
Collegiate Course may, at the discretion of the Faculty,
be admitted to his class conditionally, to make up his
deficiency by extra study within one school yeai. Only
when the conditions are removed will the student be
admitted to full standing in his class.
ADMISSION TO ADVANCED STANDING*
Candidates for admission to advanced classes in any
courses are required to pass, in addition to the usual
entrance examinations, an examination in the work already
done by the classes they desire to enter. The additional
subjects may be found in the programme of courses.
I. School of Arts and Letters.
IL School of Science.
III.	School of Engineering.
IV.	School of Law.
98
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF ARTS AND LETTERS.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
English—Part of the examination time is given for an-
swering questions upon books required to be read in the
preparatory course in English (See page 164); the re-
mainder for writing an essay.
Latin — Grammar, complete; Csesar: four books of the
Gallic War; Cicero: four orations against Catiline ;
Vergil: Aeneid, six books ; translation at sight of passages
from Cicero and Caesar; translation of English into Latin
based on the text of the author.
Greek — ( For Classical Students only ) Grammar, Ety-
mology, and general rules of Syntax; Xenophon:
Anabasis, four books ; Homer, at least three books ; prose
composition based on text.
History— A general knowledge of the outlines of Greek
and Roman History and of Mediaeval and Modern History,
as set out in the texts used in the high schools and
academies of the country.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry — Plane and Solid including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Zoology—Elementary.
Physiology — Martin’s Human Body, or an equivalent.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
99
Botany—Elementary.
Chemistry — Elements .of inorganic chemistry, as given
in high schools of good standing.
Physics — Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s. Eaboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.	‘
French and German—A three years’ study of either
German or French and one year of French or German is
required for entrance to the course in English and the
course in History and Economics. Students that begin
French in the second preparatory year will take up German
in the fourth preparatory year and continue it for two years
in the college course. A like regulation holds for those
that start German in the second preparatory. Classical *
students present a year of French or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation of
ordinary German or French prose : an ability to translate,
rather than accurate grammatical knowledge is expected.
iOO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed in the Classical Course*
(DEGREE: A. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Eage	Course			Page	Course
Latin, _ _ -	5	39	I.	Latin, - - -	5	39	II.
Greek, - - -	4	35	I.	Greek, - - -	4	35	it.
English, - -	4	4i	I.	English, - -	4	41	i.
History, - -	4	45	I.	History, - -	4	45	i.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	39	III.	Latin, - - -	5	39	IV.
Greek, - - -	4	35	III.	Greek, - - -	4	35	IV.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
History, - -	3	45	II.	History, - -	3	45	II.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Isatin, - - -	5	4o	V.	Latin, - - -	5	4o	VI.
Greek, - - -	5	36	V.	Greek, - - -	5	35	VI.
English, - -	4	42	III.	English, - -	4	42	III.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
Economics, -	4	46	I.	Elective, - -	5		
SENIOR YEAR.
I Latin, - - -	5	4o	VII.	Latin, - — -	5	4i	VIII.
Greek, - - -	5	37	VII.	Greek, - - -	5	38	VIII.
English, - -	4	42	IV.	English, - -	4	42	IV.
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
IOI
Studies Prescribed in the English Course.
(DEGREE: LITT. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEB BOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE »FOR DESCRIPTION	
		,‘Page	Course			Page	Course
English, - -	4	41	I.	English, - -	4	41	I.
Latin, - - -	5	39	I.	Latin, - - -	5	39	II.
French or - -	3	48	II.	French or - -	3	48	II.
German, - -	3	51	II.	German, - -	3	51	II.
History, - -	4	45	I.	History, - -	4	45	I.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
Latin, - - -	5	39	III.	Latin, - - -	5	39	IV.
French or -	2	49	III.	French or - -	2	49	III.
German, - -	2	5i	III.	German, - -	2	5i	III.
History, - -	3	45	II.	History, - -	3	45	II.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.
JUNIOR YEAR.
English, - -	4	42	III.	English, - -	4	42	III.
Latin, - - -	5	4o	V.	Latin, - - -	5	40	VI.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIH.
History, - -	5	45	III.	History, - -	5	45	III.
Elective - -	3			Elective, - -	3		
SENIOR YEAR.
English, - -	4	42	IV.	English, - -	4	42	IV.
Isatin j — — —	5	40	VII.	Latin, - - -	5	41	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
Economics, -	4	46	I.	History, - -	5	46	IV. b.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIH.	Elocution, -	2	44 ,	VIII.
102	UNIVERSITY 0E NOTRE DAME.
Course in History and Economics.
(DEGREE: PH. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEB BOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week'	SEE BOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History, - -	6	45	I.	History - -	6	45	I.
English, - -	4	4i	I.	English, - -	4	4i	I.
French or -	3	48	II.	French or - -	3	48	II.
German, - -	3	5i	II.	German, - -	3	5i	II.
Spanish, - -	4	49	I.	Spanish, - -	4	49	I.
Polit’l Science,	4	46	I.	History, - -	4	46	IV. a
Elocution, - -	2	44	VHI.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
History, - -		45	II. a	History - -	5	45	II. a
Polit’l Science,		47	II.	Polit’l Science,	3	47	II.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
German or - -	2	5i	III.	German or - -	2	5i	III.
French, - -	2	49	III.	French, - - -	2	48	II.
Elocution - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution - -	2	44	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.
History, - -	9	45	Il.blll.	History - -	9	45	Il.blll
Polit’l Science,	4	47	III.	Polit’l Science,	4	47	IV.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.
English - -	4	42	III.	English, - -	4	42	III.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution - -	2	44	VIII.
SENIOR YEAR.
History, - -	3	46	IV. b	History, - -	3	46	IV. b
Polit’l Science,	6	47	V. VI. VII.	Polit’l Science,	6	47	VI. VII VIII,
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
English, - -	4	42	IV.	English, - -	4	42	IV.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution,	2	44	VIII.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
103
COURSE IN JOURNALISM.
This is strictly a post-graduate course and is open only
to those who have completed the Course in History and
Bconomics described on page 102. The purely academic
training afforded by that Course is here supplemented by
a year’s practical experience in newspaper work under the
immediate supervision of an experienced journalist/
Abundant opportunity for practice is offered by the news-
papers of Chicago (all of which have regular correspon-
dents at the University) and of other large cities. In
addition to the routine work of this Course, each student is
expected to contribute to special departments in newspapers
and magazines, and diplomas will not be issued to those
who have failed to find a market for a least some of their
work. The classes in this Course are:
Journalism—Lectures and recitations on the history of
journalism. Critical comparative study of home and foreign
newspapers. The law of newspaper libel. Copyright and
postal regulations. Daily exercises in reporting, and fre-
quent exercises in editorial writing; department work;
musical and dramatic criticism and book reviews. Bditing
copy, proofreading and “making up” a newspaper.
Lectures on topics of current interest, and exercises in the
treatment of them. Required readings in Dana’s Art of
Newspaper Making, Shuman’s Steps into Journalism.,
Hudson’s History of Journalism, Luse’s Writing for the
Press, any good treatise on the law, libel and slander, and
the biographies of famous journalists. Discussion of the
business side of newspaper work, advertising, circulation,
etc.
Theology — Wilhelm and Scannell’s Manual of Dog-
matic 'Theology.
Phonography and Typewriting — Ordinary Course.
Political History of the 19th Century.
104
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF SCIENCE.
Two courses are given, one a course in General Science,
the other a course in Biology.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION.
Candidates for the Freshman class of either of these
courses must be prepared to pass an examination in the
branches below, unless satisfactory assurance of their
proficiency is given.
Physical Geography, Elementary Zoology, Botany,
and Civics.
History — General outlines of Ancient, Mediaeval and
Modern History.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry — Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Chemistry—A course of at least fifty experiments in
elementary chemistry actually performed by the pupil.
German—A two years course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English,
and easy English sentences into German.
English — Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	105
preparatory courses in English (See page 164); the
remainder for writing as essay.
Physics — Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.
Latin — Grammar, complete; Caesar: four books of the
Gallic War; Translation of English into Latin based on
text of this author.
CHEMICAL LABORATORY FEES.
Chemistry I., VII., each...........  $	5.00
Chemistry II, III, (e) IV., V., VI., (9) VIII.,
-	IX., each...................... 10.00
io6
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in General Science.
The Course in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit him-
self, either for further study of a technical or professional
kind, or for the activities of business life. The Natural
and Physical Sciences constitute the primary studies of
this Course. Grouped about these are those studies in
English, Mathematics, and Modern Eanguages, which
experience has shown to be necessary for the intelligent
pursuit of science and for the attainment of the object of
the Course
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student during the Sophomore Year and two during the
Junior Year.
The scientific work of the Senior Year' is elective.
Advanced Courses may be chosen in Physics, Chemistry,
Biology, or Mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Course of General
Science is required to submit, at least six weeks before the
final examinations, a written thesis upon some subject
connected with the elective work of the Senior Year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the professor in
the course elected. The thesis shall contain not less than
six thousand words, and must be satisfactory in matter
and treatment.
Students that complete the required courses, pass the
final examinations, and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an “hour” means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
( The facilities for instruction in this Course are described on pages
13 and 17. Eor Eaboratory Pees, see pages 105-108-114.)
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	107
Studies Prescribed in Course in General Science*
(DEGREE: B. S.)
FRESHMAN YEAR*
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology, - -	5	82	I.	Chemistry, - Anal. Geom. -	4	77	III.
Chemistry, -	4	77	III. ■		' 5	52	II.
Algebra, - -	5	5i	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
French, - -	5	48	I.	Drawing, - -	4	74	II.
Drawing, - -	2	74	I.	Physiology, -	5	86	I.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany, - - -	5	81	I.	Botany, - - -	6	81	I., II,
Chemistry, -	5	77	iv.	Physics, - -	5	80	II. III.
Physics, - -	5	80	11.111.	Calculus, - -	5	52	IV.
Calculus, - -	5	52	in.	Drawing, - -	2	74	II.
Drawing, - -	2	74	11.	Elective, - -	5		
JUNIOR YEAR.
Geology, ‘ - -	2	87	I.	Geology, - -	5	88	III.
Astronomy, -	3	60.	I.	Astronomy, -	3	60	I.
English, - -	4	4i	I.	English, - -	4	4i	I.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy, - Three Electives in Science, - French or Ger. Scientific Readings, -	5 9 15 1	3i	II.	Philosophy, - Three Electives in-Science, - French or Ger. Scientific Readings, -	5 9-15 1	3i	II.
io8
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Biology*
The course in Biology has been designed for students
that wish to devote their time largely to biological pursuits,
either as an immediate preparation for the study of
medicine or veterinary science, or with a view to teaching
or otherwise engaging in biological research. The students
in this course are required to prepare an essay during the
first term of the Junior Year on some subject pertaining to
biology. Every candidate for a degree must submit a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings. This
thesis must be presented two weeks before the final
examinations. Students not preparing themselves for a
medical course may substitute for the advanced Courses in
Anatomy and Physiology equivalents from either Mathe-
matics, Physics, or English literature.
LABORATORY FEES,
Biological Eaboratory — Biology II..........$	5.00
Biological Eaboratory—Zoology Ilf IV., V..... 5.00
Botanical Eaboratory—for Botany I. and II.... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I. and II........... 2.50
Bacteriological Eaboratory—Bacteriology...... 10.00'
Use of Apparatus in Mineralogical Eaboratory. 5.00
Use of Apparatus in Biological Eaboratory for Courses
in Zoology and Botany in Preparatory Department
each..................................... 2.50
(The facilities for instruction in this course are described on
page 17.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	109
Studies Prescribed in the Course in Biology*
(DEGREE: B .S.)	'
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology - -	5	82	I.	Physiology, -	6	86	I.
Chemistry - -	4	76	III.	Chemistry, -	4	77	Ilf.
Microscopy -	3	84	I.	English, - -	4	41	I.
English, - -	4	41	I.	French, - - -	5	49	I.
French, - -	5	49	I.	Microscopy, -	2	85	II.
Drawing, - -	2	75	VIII.	Drawing, - -	2	75	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany, - - -	5	81	I.	Botany, - - -	6	81	I. II.
Gen. Biology, -	6	84	I., II.	Gen. Biology, -	6	84	I. II.
Chemistry, - -	5	77	IV.	Chemistry, - -	5	78	V.
Drawing, - -	2	75	IX.	Drawing, - -	2	75	IX.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anatomy, - -	3	85	III.	Anatomy, - -	3	85	III.
Bacteriology, -	6	87	I.	Botany, - - -	8	81	III.
Geology, - -	2	87	I.	Geology, - - Philosophy, -	5	88	III.
Botany, - - -	8	81	III.		5	3J	I.
Philosophy, -	5		I.	Chemistry, -	5	78	VI.
SENIOR YEAR.
Anatomy, - -	7	85	II. III.	Anatomy, - -	3	85	III.
Physiology, -	3	86	II. III.	Physiology, -	2	86	III.
Zoology, - - Thesis, - - -	7	82	II.	Zoology, - - Thesis, - - -	IO	82	III. IV.,V
IIO
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
There are two courses in Pharmacy; one of two years,
leading to the degree, Graduate in Pharmacy, {Ph. G.
and another of three years, leading to the degree,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, {Ph. C)
ADMISSION*
Applicants for admission to the Short Course must be
18 years of age ; and must pass an examination in the
Common English branches. A certificate of admission to
a high school will be accepted instead of an examination.
The requirements for the long course are the same, except
that an examination in Eatin and Algebra as far as
logarithms must be passed. Satisfactory evidence of having
spent two years in a high school of the best grade will be
accepted instead of an examination.
METHODS*
The subjects studied in this department are intended to
impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult and
complicated processes.
Special attention is given to the little details, which are
essential to success in any professional work and par-
ticularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully drilled
in store etiquette, business hints, prescription work, and
dispensing. Neatness and order in all the operations and
extreme care in the manufacture of preparations are
required throughout the course.
Attention is given to Animal Extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal
Medication.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ill
EQUIPMENT.
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store in
which the student obtains practically the same experience
that he would get in actual business.
A second year student is placed in sole charge. He is
required to furnish supplies for the department, order
material, write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then
at the end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store,, constitute a very
important part of the equipment. Under supervision of
the instructor each student is required to read them and to
compound those requiring special manipulation. The
reading room is supplied with all the leading pharmaceuti-
cal journals and books of reference. The Pharmacognosy
Room contains specimens of all the official and a great
many unofficial drugs for study and identification.
THESIS.
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a subject
within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of this work
are carefully recorded and must be typewritten and pre-
sented to the faculty as a requirement for graduation.
LABORATORY FEES.
In addition to the regular tuition fee covering cost of
board, room, etc., the student is required to pay :
Pharmaceutical Laboratory	II..................$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory	II. and IV.......... 20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory	VI. and VIL..........40.00
112
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Courses in Pharmacy♦
(DEGREES: Ph. G., Ph. C.)
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE EOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy, - -	3	88	I.	Pharmacy,	6	88	I., II.
Physics, - -	5	172	F.	Physics, - -	5	172	F.
Botany, - - -	5	81	I.	Chemistry,	4	79	X,.
Microscopy, -	3	84	I.	Botany, - - -	5	81	I.
Chemistry,	5	76	I.	Materia Medica	2	89 90	VIII. (I, 2.)
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy, - - Chemistry, - - Materia Medica Bacteriology, -	8 5 3 3	89 77 89 90 87	III.	IV. IV. VIII. (E 3-) I.	Pharmacy, Chemistry, Materia Medica Physiology, -	10 5 2 5	89 78 89 90 86	IV. V., VI. V. VIII. (2, 3-) I.
THIRD YEAR.
Pharmacy,	5	89	VI .	Pharmacy, - -	5	89	VII.
Chemistry - -	6	78	VI.	Chemistry, - -	5	78	VI.
Geology, - - Thesis, - - - Elective, - -	2 2 5	87	I.	Toxicology and Urinary Analy’s Thesis, - - - Elective, - -	5 2 5	78	VII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
113
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING.
Three regular courses are offered; one leading to the
degree of Cvil Engineer, one to the degree of Mechanical
Engineer, and another to the degree of Mechanical En-
gineer in Electrical Engineering.
A special Short Course in Electrical Engineering is
offered to accommodate those that wish to fit themselves
for practical work in the shortest possible time.
A student should not take up any one of these courses
unless he has a natural aptitude for mathematics. A
liking for machinery and tools is of great advantage in
Mechanical and Electrical Engineering.
Special attention is given to the practical work of En-
gineering in the laboratories and draughting rooms. The
exercises in calculating, designing and constructing are
made to conform as nearly as possible to the best modern
engineering practice.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. '
(For a list of available apparatus, see pages 13-19.)
In the schedule of studies one hour credit is given for
each recitation or lecture which requires from one to two
hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in laboratory
work or drawing are required for each hour on the sched-
ule.
ii4
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fees for marticulation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 28, the regular
students in the three Engineering Courses are required to
pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of materials
consumed and the deterioration of the apparatus used, as
follows:
LABORATORY FEES
Physical Laboratory III......................$ 5.00
Physical Laboratory IV...................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory, L, II................ 15.00
Electrical Laboratory V..................... 20.00
Shopwork, all four-hour courses per term..... 15.00
Chemistry 1.................................. 5.00
Chemistry II, IV., V., each................. 10.00
ADMISSION*
Candidates for admission to the Freshman Year must be
at least 17 years of age. For advanced standing there
must be a corresponding increase in tjie age limit.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS
Written examinations in the following subjects re-
quired for admission will be held at the University on the
first two days of the Fall Term at the beginning of the
school year.
Arithmetic—Complete, including the metric system of
weights and measures. Special importance is attached to
accuracy in calculations and the practical application of
rules.	•
Algebra—Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadric equations, including everything up to logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises by other authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	115
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy—Descriptive.
Civics—Elementary.
History—General outlines of Ancient, Mediaeval and
Modern History.
Geography—Physical, as much as is contained in the
ordinary text books.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s Laboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.
Chemistry—The elements of Inorganic Chemistry, as
given in a high school.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology—As given in elemen-
tary text-books.
Modern Language—Engineering students must present
a two-years course in German.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English (See page 164); the re-
mainder for writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfactorily
he may begin at once the regular Freshman work; but if
he is deficient in one or more subjects he may enter con-
ditionally and make up his deficiency as soon as possible
in the Preparatory Department.
n6
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course of Civil Engineering*
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare stu-
dents by a thorough and systematic training in the sciences
and in the principles of Civil Bngineering, to perform in-
telligently the duties of their profession either in the office
or in some of the responsible positions superintending the
construction und operation of public works. To secure
these results the student is given, not only a sound theo-
retical training in the studies of the courses, but he is also
required to study the practical applications of the princi-
ples upon which the theory is based. The first two years
are devoted to the study of mathematics and the theoreti-
cal branches. The last two years are given to the study
of the applied courses—practical work in the laboratory
and field, as much as possible, being required throughout
the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German to
enable the student to read easily and understandingly pro-
fessional works in these languages; while the study of
Bnglish is pursued until the student is qualified to prepare
acceptable themes on professional subjects. Instruction
based upon standard text-books is given throughout the
course by means of lectures, recitations, practice in lab-
oratory, drawing room and field. This work is largely
supplemented by assigning to the student, for solution,
practical problems bearing directly upon the subject matter
discussed in the class room and requiring original investi-
gation, thus training the student to habits of independence
and awakening his interest in the work of his course.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
117
field Engineering. After the student is taught the use and
adjustments of the instruments, surveys, elementary in
character, are commenced and continued progressively
until the more difficult principles and methods are under-
stood. In a similar manner is instruction given in the
Courses in Sanitary Engineering, Hydromechanics, Re-
sistance of Materials, Bridges and Roofs, etc., thus
familiarizing the student with practical Engineering sub-
jects, and the most approved methods of execution and
designing.
A thesis on some approved subject connected with the
course of study, is required of each student as a condition
of graduation. The thesis must embody the results of
original research.
6
Il8	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Civil Engineering,
(DEGREE: C. E.)
FRESHMAN YEAR,
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	Anal. Geom. -	5	52	II.
English, - -	5	41	I.	Surveying, - -	5	54	II.III.
French, - -	5	48	I.	English, - -	5	41	I.
Chemistry,	3	76	II.	French, - -	5	48	I.
Drawing, . - -	3	74	I.	Chemistry,	3	76	II.
SOPHOMORE YEAR,
Calculus, - -	5	52	in.	Calculus, - -	5	52	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	54 74	1. in.	Dif. Equations,	5	53	V.
R. R. Surveying	5	55 56	VI. VII.	Des. Geometry,	3	54 74	I. III.
Physics, - -	5	80	ii.in.	Adv. Surveying,	5	55	IV., V.
Drawing, - -	3	74	ii.iii.	Physics, - -	5	80	II.III.
				Drawing, - -	3	74 75	III. V.
JUNIOR YEAR,
Analytic Mechanics, -	5	56	VIII.	Mechanics of Materials, -	5	56	IX.
Geodesy, - -	4	60	XVI.	Astronomy,	3	60	I.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
Geology, - -	4	87	I.	Geology, - -	4	88	III.
Drawing, - -	2	75	VI.	Drawing, - -	3	75	VII.
Stereotomy, -	1	59	XIV.				•
SENIOR YEAR,
Engineering, -	5	58	XII.	Engineering, - Hydromechan.,	5 3	58 59	XII. XV.
Drawing, - -	3	75	VII.	Graph. Stat.,	5	57	XII.
Bridges, Roofs,	5	57	21	Sanitary Eng.,	2	58	XII.
Sanitary Eng., Hydromechan,	2 3	58 59	xni. XV.	Steam Boilers, Thesis Work,	3	62	IV.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
119
Introduction to the Course in Mechanical
Engineering*
The Course in Mechanical Engineering, leading to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, is given to those young
men that wish to prepare themselves for the designing of
machinery, with its appurtenances, and for the successful
management of power-plants. As the Course requires a
thorough knowledge of Pure and Applied Mathematics,
as well as of Physics, only those capable of adapting them-
selves to these requirements should takeit up. The Course
is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of the
study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used in
Mechanical Engineering, accompanied by the science of
pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions of
connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions or to the work done by energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct devel-
opment of kinematics, and the Course continues throughout
the Junior and Senior Years.
The Courses in Shopwork are most complete. The first
year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop, in
which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When the students have become
sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the work of
the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
120
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the student by easy steps until he has mastered all the
details of the art.
The latter part of the Senior Year is largely taken up in
the preparation of a Graduating Thesis. Here especially
the student is taught to depend as much as possible upon
his own resources and abilities in exercising his ingenuity.
This is the culminating effort of the course, embodying its
chief results, and is expected to show considerable
originality.
(For the equipment of the shops in which the courses are given, see
page 20.)
3
I
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
121
Studies Prescribed for Mechanical Engineering.
(DEGREE: M. E.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	Analyt. Geom.,	5	52	II.
French, - -	5	48	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
Drawing, - -	3	74	I.	Drawing, - -	3	74	II.
Chemistry, -	3	76	II.	Chemistry, -	3	76	II.
Shopwork, -	3	64	XL a	, Shopwork, -	3	64	Xl.b
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Calculus, - -	5	52	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	54 74	I. III.	Des. Geometry,	3	54 74	I. III.
Drawing, - -	2	74	II.	Drawing, - -	3	74	II.
Chemistry, -	5	77	IV.	Chemistry, -	5	78	V.
Physics, - -	5	80	II.III.	Physics, - -	5	80	II.III.
Shopwork, -	3	65	XI. c	Shopwork, -	3	65	XI. d
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anal. Mechanics	5	56	VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat.,	5	56	IX.
Kinematics, -	5	62	V.	Machine Design	3	63	VI.
English, - -	5	4i	I.	Valve Gears, -	2	63	VII.
Drawing, - -	3	74	IV.	. English, - -	5	4t	I.
Physics, - -	3	8q	IV.	Drawing, - -	3	74	IV.
Shopwork, -	3	65	XI. e	Shopwork, -	3	65	XI. f
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of Engineering,	2	61	II.	Steam Engine Design, - -	5	62	III.
Thermodynam,	5	61	I.	Steam Boilers,	3	62	IV.
Steam Engine				Thesis, - -	12	64	IX.
Design, - -	5	62	III.	Hydraulics, -	3	61	I.
Mechani’l Lab.,	3	63	VIII.				
Shopwork, -	3	65	XI. f.			•	
122
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course of Electrical Engineering.
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of Electrical and Me-
chanical work. The study of the subjects arranged on the
following page is intended to give a general education as
well as special training in the technical branches involved
in the various practical applications of electricity in
industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text - books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires some skill in
handling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records of
the work done in the laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
center in the growth of which electricity is taking a very
prominent part. Electric power generated by steam is
now being distributed and utilized in several large plants,
some using the three phase alternating system while
others are using the direct current. One of the largest
water power developments in the middle west is situated
within a few miles of the University. From this estab-
lishment we receive three phase alternating currents
which furnish light for our buildings and grounds and
power for driving motors in our shops and printing offices,
etc., all of which are operated by electricity,
There are numerous other transmission lines and electrical
power stations operated by water power within a short
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	123
distance. Our students visit all of these plants, accom-
panied by an instructor who points out the applications of
the text-book theory in the design of electrical apparatus
and its operation under actual working conditions.
(Eor requirements for admission, degree, etc., see pages 113-115.)
THESIS*
Each candidate for graduation must present at the end of
the Senior Year an acceptable Thesis embodying the
results of an extended original research on an Engineering
subject, chosen at the beginning of the year, with the
approval of the head of the department. The descriptive
part must be typewritten on ledger paper, and bound in
book form together with the drawings.
124
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Electrical Engineering*
DEGREE: M. E. in. E. E.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	Analyt. Geom.	5	52	II.
French, - - -	5	48	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
Drawing, - -	4	74	I.	Drawing, - -	4	74	II.
Chemistry - -	3	76	II.	Chemistry, - -	3	76	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	64	XL a.	Shopwork, - -	3	64	XI b.
SOPHOMORE YEAR*
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Calculus, -	5	52	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	54 74	I. III.	Des. Geometry,	3	54 74	I. III.
Chemistry, - -	3	77	IV.	Physical Prob.,	2	80	III.
Physics, - -	3	80	II.	Physics, - -	3	80	II.
Shopwork,	3	65	XI. c.	Shopwork, - -	3	65	XI. d.
Physical Prob.,	2	80	III.	Drawing, - -	2	75	II.
JUNIOR YEAR*
Analytical				Meeh’s of Mat.	5	56	IX.
Mechanics,	5	56	VIII.	Machine Design	5	63	VI.VII.
Kinematics, -	5	62	V.	English, - -	5	4i	I.
English, - -	5	4i	I.	Physics,	3	80	IV.
Physics, - -	3	80	IV.	Shopwork, - -	3	65	XI. f.
Shopwork, - -	3	65	XI. e.				
SENIOR YEAR*
Dynamo Machinery,	5	66	III.	Dynamo Machinery,	5	66	HI.
Thermodynam,	5	61	I.	Electrical Lab.,	5	66	IV.
Electrical Lab.,	5	66	IV.	Designing, - -	3	67	V.
Designing, - -	3	67	V.	Thesis, - - -			
Thesis, - - -				Hydraulics,	3	61	I.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I25
Short Course in Applied Electricity.
Students that do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
course should enter this shorter course, which may be
completed in two years. It is arranged to give an accu- >
rate knowledge of the fundamental theories of electricity
and magnetism, as well as a certain amount of skill in
handling electrical machinery and appliances. Algebra,
geometry, trigonometry, and elementary physics are
included, for they are necessary in order to carry on suc-
cessfully the practical work of designing, manufacturing
and testing or operating electrical apparatus. Training in
this practical work is given in the draughting room, the
machine shops, and in the electrical and physical
laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application of
electricity to the distribution of light and power are learned
by testing, repairing, and making additions to the
University plant and by visiting the numerous electric
plants in the vicinity, accompanied by an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the course and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings and
to follow them in the construction of apparatus in the
shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to this course should be at
least 17 years of age. They should have a fair knowledge
of the subjects taught in the common schools, especially
arithmetic and algebra as far as quadratics.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate stating that fact is issued.
126
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Short Course in
Applied Electricity.
FIRST YEAR,
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - - Drawing, - -	5	168	C.	Geometry, - -	5	169	D.
	3	74	I.	Drawing, - -	3	74	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	64	XI. a.	Shopwork, - -	3	64	XI. b.
Physics, - -	5	80	I.	Physics, - -	5	80	I.
Applied				Applied			
Electricity, -	5	65	I.	Electricity, -	5	65	I.
SECOND YEAR,
Trigo nometry, Drawing, - - Shopwork, - - Dynamo Machinery, - Applied Electricity, -	5 3 3 5 5	170 67 65 66 66	H. V. XI. c. III. II.	Engines and Boilers, Drawing, - - Shopwork, - - Dynamo Machinery, Applied Electricity,	3 3 3 5 5	64 67 65 66 66	V.’ XI. d. III. II.
The laboratory fees for students that are taking the regular work
in this course, according to the above schedule, after they have
finished all the work required for entrance, shall be as given on
page 114.
All others are special students and for them the fee is as given on
page 29 for Applied Electricity.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
127
COURSE IN ARCHITECTURE.
This course has been introduced as a natural outgrowth
of the splendid engineering course and is designed to work
in harmony with it.	'
The course in Architecture has thus (in the Freshman
and Sophomore years) all the advantages of complete
education in mathematics combined with the elementary
studies of Architecture, together with the full course of
Architecture in the Junior and Senior years.
The studies are arranged in the college year to corres-
pond with the progress of other large colleges.
The work of the professors in this course is under the
direct supervision of a practising architect.
128
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Course in Architecture*
(DEGREE: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	Analytic Geom.	5	52	II.
English, - -	5	41	I.	English, - -	5	41	I.
French, - -	5	48	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
Meeh. Drawing,	4	74	I.	Meeh. Drawing	4	74	II.
Freehand Draw.	2	72	la. Ib.	Freehand Draw.	2	72	la. Ib.
History of Arch.	2	67	I.	History of Arch.	2	67	I.
Arch. Orders,	2	68	II.	Arch. Orders,	2	68	II.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Calculus, - -	5	52	IV.
Des. Geom., -	3	54 74	1. ni.	Des. Geom., -	3	54 74	I. III.
Physics, - -	5	80	11. in.	Physics, - -	5	80	II. III.
El. Design, -	2			El. Design, -	2	73	III.
History of Arch.	2	67	1.	History of Arch.	2	67	I.
Freehand Draw.	3	72	Ha.	Freehand Draw.	3	72	Ila.
Pen and Ink,	1	76	XII.	Pen and Ink,	1	76	XII.
Water Colors,	2	75	X.	Materials,	2	70	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Meeh.,	3	56	VIII.	Meeh, of Mat’ls	3	56	IX.
Freehand Draw.	4	72	Hb.	Freehand Draw.	4	72	Hb.
Arch. Research.	3	67	I.	Arch. Research,	3	67	I.
Pen and Ink,	1	76	XII.	Pen and Ink,	1	76	XII.
Heat and Vent.	2	68	IV.	Graphic Statics,	5	57	XI.
Specifications,	2	70	VII.	Specifications,	2	70	VII.
Design, - -	5	68	III.	Design, - -	5	68	III.
Struct. Design,	1	7o	IX.				
SENIOR YEAR.
Adv. Design,	10	68	III.	Theory Arches,	2	69	VI.
Adv. Cons. Des.	3	69	V.	Hist, of Orn’m’t	I	70	X.
Adv. Cons. Des.	5	57	X.	Sanitary Eng.	2	58	XIII.
Rendering, -	2	76	XI	Thesis Work,			
Sanitary Eng.	2	58	xiii.				
School of Law*
♦
130
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
FACULTY.
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President of the University.
WIEEIAM HOYNES, EE. D., Dean,
International Eaw, Equity Jurisprudence and Pleadings,
Common Eaw Pleadings, Real and Personal Property,
Domestic Relations, Criminal Eaw,
Contracts, Torts, etc.
Hon. EUCIUS HUBBARD, EE. D.,
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Hon. TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, EE- D.,
Appellate Jurisdiction of Courts of East Resort.
ARTHUR E. HUBBARD, A. B., EE. B.,
Evidence, Damages and Study of Cases.
DANIEE P. MURPHY, A. B., EE. B.,
Elementary Eaw, Commercial Paper, Quiz Work, etc.
*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	13I
SCHOOL OF LAW.
For several years a systematic movement has been in
progress under the auspices of the bench and bar of the
country to elevate the standing and promote the efficiency
of the legal profession, and make it as learned in fact as it
is in name. The most essential preliminary step to this
end, as lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe require-
ments and examinations more comprehensive .and rigorous
as a test of qualifications for
ADMISSION TO THE BAR.
Upon the law departments of universities, or law schools,
as they may collectively be called, the profession must
mainly depend for co-operation and success in this laudable
undertaking. In fact, due acknowledgment of the im-
portance of their services is made as follows in a former
report of the Committee on Legal Education of the Ameri-
can Bar Association :
‘ ‘ The benefits which law schools offer are easily suggested, and
are of the most superior kind. They afford the student au acquaint-
ance with general principles, difficult if not impossible to be other-
wise obtained; they serve to remove difficulties which are inherent in
scientific and technical phraseology, and as a necessary consequence
they furnish the student with the means for clear conception and
accurate and precise expression. They famaliarize him with leading
cases, and the application of them to'discussion. They give him the
valuable habit of attention, teach him familiar maxims and offer him
the priceless opportunities which result from contact and generous
emulation. They lead him readily to survey the law as a science,
and imbue him with the principles of ethics as its true foundation.
Disputing, reasoning, reading, and discoursing become his constant
exercise ; he improves remarkably as he becomes acquainted with
them, and obtains progress otherwise beyond his reach. ’ ’
132
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
According to the late Chief Justice Waite, of the United
States Supreme Court, ‘ ‘ I^aw schools are now a necessity; ’ ’
and, in his work entitled '‘The American Commonwealth,”
Professor Bryce attributes the progress in learning and
professional attainments of American lawyers ‘‘to the ex-
traordinary excellence of many of the'law schools.”
It is probably well that the Professor qualifies his state-
ment by using the word “many,” instead of “all,” in re-
ferring to the work of the law schools of the country; for
some of them, regrettable to state, appear to be deficient in
wholesome zeal to co-operate in elevating the standard of
professional learning and ethics. They seem not to dis-
criminate. At any rate, they permit persons wanting even
in the rudiments of a liberal education to become candi-
dates for diplomas. Their attitude in this respect would
seem to indicate that a large attendance and substantial
revenue are placed paramount in the scale of importance
to substantial results in the equipment and training of
students. .Such of these young men as manage without
further preparation to secure admission to the bar neces-
sarily commit gross mistakes in the technical work of the
profession; and, in consequence, clients are misled,
judges embarrassed and courts delayed. While it is true
that many of them abandon the practice after a precarious
experience and turn to pursuits for which they are better
qualified, yet the step is attended in some measure with
disappointment and humiliation, not to mention the com-
parative loss of time and means incident to preparing for
examination and waiting vainly for success.
The movement in progress to protect and promote the
interests of the legal profession has spread sufficiently of
late to become an obstacle to the continuance of these
ab’uses, exceptional though they be. Hereafter such law
schools as receive students indiscriminately, without par-
ticular regard to their educational standing, maintaining a
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
133
loose system of instruction and permitting loose methods of
study, with possibly a promise of graduation in one or two
years, must, as a general rule, suffer the humiliation
incident to the rejection as incompetent of their gradu-
ates by the examining boards designated to pass upon the
qualifications of applicants for admission to the bar. This
movement is salutary in all respects, and law schools that
fail to conform to it in the duration and thoroughness of
their courses of instruction have no valid claim upon the
approval of the profession, the patronage of students or
the confidence of the public.	•
It is becoming more difficult year by year successfully to
meet the requirements and pass the examinations pre-
scribed for admission to the bar, and law schools are
bound to take cognizance of the fact and correspondingly
broaden and strengthen their courses of instruction. A
few years ago it was far less difficult than it is at present
to enter the ranks of the profession, and the decided ten-
dency is to make even more exacting the test of qualifi-
cations for membership. With this tendency uninter-
rupted, the profession gives promise of attaining to its
coveted ideal in learning, ethics and efficiency.
And here it may be in order to refer more particularly to
THE SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
in the Law Department of the University of Notre Dame,
although, of course, it is included in general terms in what
has been stated regarding the duty of law schools to aid in
promoting the laudable aims and general welfare of the
legal profession.
" Referring briefly to the prevailing methods of instruction
in the different law schools, it may be stated that in some
of them the text-book system is exclusively followed, and
the students read and recite daily an assigned lesson of a
given number of pages; in others the lecture system

i34
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
obtains, as in Buropean universities, and students familiar
with phonography may take notes and sufficiently
study the same to be able in subsequent examinations to
answer questions bearing upon the subjects studied; in a
few others the study of cases, or case reading, is the
favored system, and the students read books of selected
cases treating of different branches of the law, with a view
to reciting them in outline or writing a brief digest of the
points involved; in certain other schools an effort has
been made to combine some of the distinctive features of
case reading, text-book work and lecturing, and a mixed
or eclectic system, as it may be called, exists in them. At
Notre Dame, however, none of these systems is exclusively
followed, although there is a nearer approach to the last
than to any of the others. With careful discrimination
the best features of all are comprised in the curriculum
here preferred. It is believed, in short, that nowhere in
the country is the law course more comprehensive,
thorough and practical than at this University.
The study of cases is usually taken up early in Septem-
ber, year by year, and continued long enough to enable
students to understand, analyze and criticise the decisions
assigned to them for study and recitation. The difficulties
usually encountered by beginners in the work are readily
surmounted by the aid of lectures and explanations. In a
comparatively short time students become familiar with a
number of the leading cases and learn to recognize features
of strength or weakness in the opinions of the courts.
They learn also to distinguish dicta from the logical
sequence of thought in dealing with the proper subjects of
judicial determination, and recognize promptly the
qualifying or weakening effect of a dissenting opinion,
when such is filed by a minority of the judges. More-
over, after thus familiarizing themselves with cases, they
arc advised and expected to read the authorities cited
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
135
daily in class, whether in the text-books, lectures or
quizzes. In the preparation also of written theses from
month to month, comprising on an average twelve or more
pages of legal cap, they must necessarily consult and cite
them. In moot-court work likewise they are prompted
and emulously incited in their foretaste of forensic contests
to make a careful study not only of the cases in the re-
ports, but also of the pertinent portions of text-books,
digests, etc., and thus they are enabled intelligently to
marshal the authorities upon which they depend for
success in the maintenance of their respective contentions.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts of
some States require applicants to furnish a list of the text-
books they studied, and such of these applicants as have
merely attended lectures or studied cases, instead of read-
ing text-books, encounter danger of being declared in-
elgible to stand as candidates for examination, even
though well able creditably to acquit themselves in it. If
they undertake to explain how the law may be learned
without studying a certain number of text-books, they find
the examiners inclined to listen incredulously, if not openly
and positively to express doubt. And if they ask credit
for the work done, it is likely to be given so sparingly as
to cause disappointment and discouragement. As some of
the law students at Notre Dame come from States in
which this test is applied in examinations, the use of text-
books is deemed advisable, if not necessary. But there
are other reasons for using them. It has been found, for
example, that so many mistakes are made by the average
student in committing lectures to writing that his notes are
frequently unintelligible or misleading, and consequently
practically worthless for future reference. While it is true
that this objection might be overcome by resorting to the
slow, if not tedious, process of dictation, yet this method
of instruction would manifestly be impracticable under
136
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
present conditions in a domain so extensive as the law.
Moreover, the books used by students become peculiarly
serviceable in their subsequent practice. Remembering
more or less clearly the contents, they can turn more
readily than they could with books they had not studied to
the pages that elucidate the questions with which they
may afterwards have to deal at the instance of courts,
clients, and opposing counsel. In some law schools
lectures have been taken in full by certain students skilled
in phonography, and then typewritten and sold at so much
a page to other members of the class, but this practice has
fallen into disfavor, if not disuse, having proved to be very
unsatisfactory and more costly than text-books.
The lecture or dictation system alone may be pro-
nounced antiquated and impracticable for the reasons
already stated, but, in combination with text-book work,
case reading and daily examinations, its great value and
utility cannot be overestimated. At Notre Dame it forms
an important factor in the law curriculum. Each subject
is fully covered by lectures, text-book work, daily and bi-
monthly examinations, monthly theses, the reading of
pertinent cases and formal trials in the moot and other
courts of the University.
This course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough,
and practical. It cannot be excelled. It may be stated
without qualification or reserve that the earnest and in-
dustrious student can accomplish twice as much in a given
time at Notre Dame as he can in an office or at home.
With comparative immunity from the distractions and
.temptations of city life, he can give his entire time to
study and necessary recreation. In short, he can study a
greater number of hours and do more class work day by
day than probably anywhere else in the entire country.
The authorities of the University, it may be repeated,
are sincerely in sympathy with the efforts now making in
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	137
educational and legal circles to raise to the highest plane
practicable
THE STANDARD OF PROFICIENCY
for graduation in law and admission to the bar. And yet
they aim to be guided in the matter by the dictates of com-
mon sense. They know that a great number of worthy and
capable young men who desire to qualify themselves for
the legal profession are prevented by circumstances from
completing the studies of a collegiate course before an age
that seems to make imperative the obligation of beginning
without delay the study of law. Such young men, many
of whom may be actively engaged in business, in teaching,
journalistic work, and the like, are almost necessarily
driven to the chaotic and discouraging study of the law in
offices, if denied indulgent consideration by the institutions
of higher learning and the leading law schools.
It is conceived to be the duty of a university to do all the
good it can to as many as possible, consistently with its
curriculum and standing ; and to that end it ought to aid
and encourage to the full limit of its opportunities worthy
and upright, honest and capable young men who manifest
an earnest desire to qualify themselves for a useful and
creditable career in the higher walks of professional life.
With a view to doing its full share in this regard, the
University of Notre Dame will welcome to its halls and its
classes every deserving young man who desires to pursue
and become proficient in the study of the law. But, if his
standing in collegiate work or general education be not
sufficiently advanced to enable him to undertake with
profit the studies of the higher text-books, he may
enter the Elementary class, the members of which are
given instruction in the fundamental principles of the law
for an hour each day. The remainder of his time is devoted
to study and recitation in such of the collegiate courses as.
9
138	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
in the opinion of the authorities, are likely to prove most
useful and helpful in enabling him to enter as speedily as
practicable upon the studies of the Junior and Senior law
classes.
A faithful discharge of the duties devolving upon the
students of these classes demands their entire time. Every
hour of the day can be devoted profitably to the work as-
signed to them. Even the Postgraduate students, whose
time is devoted exclusively to law work, find it sufficient
to keep them very busy. And yet it seems that, in an in-
dulgent spirit, an exception ought to be made in the
interest of such students as by previous study in other law
schools, or law offices, or actual practice as attorneys, have
acquired the right to be credited with work acceptably
done, or advanced standing in the course. It is deemed
only fair and proper to allow such as these to take elec-
tively any additional studies they may choose in the
regular or special courses of the University. But this
option may not be exercised without permission and reason-
able assurance that it will not interfere with the work
prescribed for law students.
The rule requiring regularity in class attendance is im-
perative. Once students enter a class they are expected to
remain in it for the session at least, faithfully performing
the duties it imposes upon them. They may thus, by
coming to Notre Danie to complete their legal studies,
materially add to their attainments in other branches of
knowledge likely to be helpful to them in their practice as
lawyers.
This fact tends pertinently to illustrate the special advan-
tages to be derived from studying law at a university.
There the educational atmosphere is elevating, broadening,
invigorating. It awakens a wholesome spirit of emulation.
It encourages the exercise of all the faculties and intel-
lectual powers. It serves as a potent and salutary force in
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	139
the development of mind and body. The impressive lesson
it inculates relative to the past, the present and the
future —the manifold duties of life — necessarily directs the
thoughtful to the paths of knowledge and usefulness. It
awakens life-directing forces that else would perhaps ever
lie dormant. It tends to turn thought and action toward
high ideals, the acquisition of useful knowledge, sturdy
self-reliance and a strong sense of moral obligation in the
consciousness of increasing power and influence at the bar.
Students who do not intend to become candidates for the
degree of LL. B., but wish simply to add to their educa-
tional acquirements a knowledge of the
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE LAW
may at any time during the year have their names enrolled
on the list of students in the Elementary class. No extra
expense is thereby incurred. However, such students must
be sufficiently advanced in age and education to justify
the belief that they can understand and appreciate
instruction in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase
steadily, for year by year it is becoming more manifest that
an education is not complete without a knowledge of at
least the elementary principles of the law. Many a man in
trade has had to face .financial ruin on account of want of
acquaintance with the fundamental legal principles. Al-
though in theory, at least, every person is presumed to
know the law, yet many a man has, by an inconsiderate
act due to his ignorance of it, forfeited claim to the pro-
tection of the courts and the vindication of his rights.
Many a person has been forced to do exactly the contrary
of what he intended through his failure to understand the
essential elements of a contract Many a one has been
compelled to pay heavy damages for personal injuries
caused by negligence, or failure to perform a duty, or im-
140	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
proper performance of it, where no liability would, exist if
the law of torts had been known and observed. As the law
is over and around every creature from the first moment
of his being until the grave closes upon him and his estate
is settled, it would be impossible to overestimate its vital
interest and importance. Indeed, there is no study that
can at all compare with it in practical utility, in training
the mind to accuracy of observation, in strengthening the
judgment and in imparting to the faculties the power of
discernment implied in what may be called common sense.
A period of three years is prescribed for undergraduates
in the
COURSE OF STUDY
in the Daw Department of this University. It leads when
satisfactorily completed to the degree of DU- B. The Post-
graduate course comprises an additional or fourth year, and
leads to the degree of DL. M. By its charter this Uni-
versity is empowered to confer these and all other degrees
appertaining to the courses of study in educational institu-
tions of the highest rank, There is no university that has
greater power under the law in this respect.
The undergraduate law students are divided into three
classes, corresponding to each year of the course leading to
the degree of IX B. They are known respectively as
the Klementary, Junior and Senior classes. The Post-
graduate course is for students who have received that
degree and aim at attaining by further study and practical
work to a higher grade of proficiency. A full year of study
in each class is obligatory. Moreover, the student must
pass a satisfactory general examination at the close of each
scholastic year. This test is indispensable as a condition
of promotion in the Elementary and Junior classes and as
evidence of qualifications for graduation in the Senior class.
The subjects of study and the work to be done in each
class are here briefly outlined ;
UNIVERSITY OU NOTRE DAME.	141
ELEMENTARY CLASS-FIRST YEAR*
An hour daily is given to instruction and recitation.
The regular course of instruction consists in text-
book work, lectures, quizzes, written exercises and
attendance at moot-court trials and society meetings. The
books primarily used are Blackstone's and Kent's Com-
mentaries. Other works of elementary law are also used, as
occasion may require. Those are chosen which seem best
adapted and most useful for purposes of study. Of
these mention may be made of Walker's American Law,
Smith's Elementary Law, Munson's Elementary Practice,
Keener s Selections on Jurisprudence, Holland's Elements of
Jurisprudence, Robinson's Elements of American Juris-
prudence, Fishback's Manual of Elementary Law, and the
like. The recently published edition of Blackstone's Com-
mentaries by Dr. William Draper Lewis is justly regarded
as the best and most complete known to the profession,
although the chart feature of BlicHnderfer's Elements 0/
Blackstone is much appreciated by students. Browne's
Blackstone, too, is a carefully prepared summary in one
volume of the essential elements of the original work.
Browne's Edition of Kent's Commentaries is also a useful
summary in one volume of the original treatise. However,
it is usually safer for students to purchase their books after
joining the class. Uniformity is thus assured, as well as
lowest current prices. This suggestion applies not only to
the Blementary students, but also to the Juniors and
Seniors.
Persons who desire to become members of the Klementary
class must be at least eighteen years of age and entitled to
collegiate standing in their general education. However,
ample opportunity is afforded them to pursue such addi-
tional studies as may seem useful in preparing for a
successful career in the law. For example, a knowledge of

142
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Isatin, Logic, History, Political Economy, and the like,
would be helpful to them. Other subjects, also, in which
they may either regard themselves as deficient or wish to
excel, may likewise be entered on their lists of studies.
Should it be deemed necessary or advisable for them to
perfect themselves in these studies, whether one year or
several years be requisite, it would be entirely practicable
meanwhile to attend the exercises of the Elementary class.
Work thus done would necessarily serve to broaden and
deepen the foundation of subsequent work in the Junior
and Senior years, making it peculiarly effective and
promising. The work done in this class is exceptionally
interesting and instructive for beginners, and there is
sufficient change in it annually to sustain interest and make
attendance profitable, though continued for two or more
years.
JUNIOR CLASS—SECOND YEAR.
When a student enters this class his close attention, and '
earnest thought, and best efforts must be directed exclu-
sively to the study of law. He must attend class exercises
at least three hours daily. This he must do for the entire
scholastic year. Otherwise he can not be regarded as en-
titled to promotion to the Senior class. He must do the
full work of the year if he would advance with his class
and share its honors.
If the student be a collegiate Postgraduate in the Classics,
Sciences, Letters, or the like, or has attained to equivalent
acquirements and standing by work and experience in pro-
fessional pursuits, or lines of thought and study kindred to
the law, he may be eligible primarily to membership in this
class. In such case it would be necessary for him to
undertake and perform the most essential work of the
Elementary class in addition to his other duties. It
is sought to do in this class fully the work of a
3
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
M3
year and a half, as gauged by the courses of other educa-
tional institutions. That this has been done in many
instances can not be questioned, although there has never
been special reference to any other institution, with a view
to comparison, or as an incentive to exceptional effort.
Presumably the result is due to a progressive system of
instruction, more recitations daily, a greater number of
hours for study, and the purpose of each member of the
Faculty to do his best in performance of duty. But, not-
withstanding these facts, it is necessary for most of the
students, no matter how well advanced or finished their
education, to take the full course of three years. The fact
that they might accomplish in two years all that is ordi-
narily done in three makes no difference. This is due to
the action of courts and legislatures in numerous States.
A rule has been established requiring three years of actual
study of the law as a prerequisite to applying for admission
to the bar. Persons from these States must take the full
9
three years’ course, including the Blementary class.
If their general education be finished, however, and it seem
superfluous to do further collegiate work, they may select
in preference the Junior, Senior and Postgraduate years as
covering the time required for study in the States in which
they intend to practise. Of course, this question will not
arise in States that require only two years of study, and
students from such States who are entitled to postgraduate
standing ought to be able to do in two years the ordinary
work of three, and thus qualify themselves in that time to
undergo without difficulty the most rigorous examination
for admission to the bar.
In arranging the course of study it is sought to take
subjects in their logical sequence. The less difficult, though
by no means the less important, come in the Junior year,
while the more technical are dealt with in the Senior year,
except in the case of Pleadings and Evidence. A knowl-
144
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
edge of these renders moot-court work intelligible and
profitable to an exceptional degree, and hence they enter
into the plan of instruction in the Junior year. The moot
^court practice is an important factor in the course of in-
struction for all the classes, and there can be no question
regarding the advisability of learning and applying the
rules of pleading and evidence at as early a date as
practicable. Following are the chief subjects of study in
the Junior year and the names of some of the authors of
text-books dealing with them :	.
The Common and Statutory Laws, with Exercises in Case
Reading and Statutory Construction.
Black on Interpretation of Laws} Bishop's Written Law,
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Curtis's Federal
Statutes. ’
Law Dictionaries.
Anderson, Black, Bouvier, Shumaker & Longsdorf.
Persons and Domestic Relations.
Tiffany, Dwight, Schouler, Reeves, Rodgers. ‘
The Law of Contracts. .
Hammon, Clark, Lawson, Bishop, Beach, Anson, Parsons.
The Law of Torts.
Hale, Jaggard, Cooley, Hilliard, Addison, Bishop's Non-
Contract Law, Barrows. •
Criminal Law and Procedure.
Clark, Bishop, Heard, May, Hawley & McCregor, Wash-
burn, Wharton, Stephen, Clark & Marshall.
Medical Jurisprudence.
Reese, Dean, Beck, Taylor.
n
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	145
‘l
Common Law Pleadings.
Shipman, Gould, Stephen, Shinn, Heard, Chitty, Perry,
Bryant.	,
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Bliss, Maxwell, Boone, Phillips, Thompson on Trials,
Elliott's General Practice, Elliott's Appellate Procedure,
Foster's First Book of Practice, Estes' s Pleadings, Blash-
field's Instructions to Juries.
Evidence.
Jones, Underhill, GreenleaJ, Wharton, Reynolds, Roscoe,
Starkie, Stephen, Best, Lawson on Expert and Opinion
Evidence.
Sales. '	18
Tiffany, Tiedeman, Benjamin, Burdick.
Insurance.
May, Elliott, Wood, Bliss, Joyce, Kerr.
Agency.
Reinhard, Mechem, Evans, Story, Wharton.
Partnership.
Bates, Shumaker, George, Lindley, Parsons, Pollock.
It would be supererogatory to enumerate the subdivisions
or branches of the subjects mentioned. All of them, how-
ever, receive due attention and are fully explained. And
it may be stated that, with a view to enabling students to
obviate the expense of purchasing many books, subjects of
brief compass are taught, as may seem practicable, by
means of lectures, case reading, quizzes, theses and moot
court trials. But should text-books be preferred at any
time, resort may be had to their use.
146	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SENIOR CLASS—THIRD YEAR,
So much of what has been stated with reference to the
preceding classes is applicable also to students of the Senior
year that it will be unnecessary to enlarge on the nature of
their work. A detailed description of it might involve
repetition to some extent, and thus become tedious. Those
eligible to membership are such as have satisfactorily
finished the studies of the first and second years and earned
the right to promotion. And yet, in compliance with a
custom generally recognized by the leading universities,
lawyers in good standing who desire to join the class, in
order to broaden and symtematize their knowledge of the
law, are also admitted to it. On passing a satisfactory
examination at the end of the year they become, like other
students, entitled to the degree of LL- B. And the same
courtesy is extended to students of good moral character
who have acceptably finished the work of two years in law
schools or law departments of other universities. The
leading subjects of study, together with the names of the
authors of some of the text-books treating of them, are
here presented:
Equity Jurisprudence.
Fetter, Tiedeman, Eaton, Snell, Story, Adams, Merwin.
Equity Pleadings and Practice.
Fletcher, Shipman, Shinn, Lube, Shipp & Daish.
International Law.
Glenn, Hall, Story, Vattel, Woolsey, Wheaton, Halleck,
Davis.
Constitutional Law.
Black, Cooley, Von Holst, Desty, Story, Hamilton, Madi;
son and Jay in the Federalist.
Private and Municipal Corporations.
Marshall, Clark, Elliott, Beach, Field, Angell & Ames,
Dillon, Tiedeman, Wild.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I47
Personal Property,
Tiedeman, Darlington, Schouler, Smith, Williams.
Real Property,
Hopkins, Tiedeman, Williams, Washburn, Willard,
Boone.	.
Wills, Executors and Administrators,
Cro swell, Redfield, Jarman, OH ar a, Wigram.
Bailments and Common Carriers.
Hale, Hutchinson, Edwards, Schouler, Story.
Negotiable Instruments or Commercial Paper,
Norton, Tiedeman, Daniel, Chalmers, Randolph.
Suretyship and Guaranty.
Brandt, Baylies, De Cdlyar, Pitman, Pingrey.
The subdivisions of the principal subjects indicated in
the preceding list are, of course, included in the general
terms designating those subjects, and it is unnecessary
specially to enumerate them. For example, it would be
superfluous to refer specifically to Arbitration, Demand,
Estoppel, Injunction, Insolvency, Protest, Assessment,
Taxation, Mandamus, Quo Warranto, Ul'ra Vires, Re-
coupment, Set-ofi, Counterclaim, Debtor and Creditor, and
the like, for they are carefully considered and fully
explained in connection with the broader subjects to which
they relate.
The subjects of study are not necessarily taken, one by
one, in consecutive order, as given in the list. Three or
four of them may engage the attention and demand the
work of the class at the same time. To illustrate : The
class meets for recitation three or four times daily—say,
once or twice in the forenoon and twice in the afternoon.
International Law may be chosen for the morning hour,
special work in office business or court practice afterward,
148
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Constitutional Law the first hour in the afternoon and
Municipal or Private Corporations later. Once a subject is
chosen for a particular class, whether first, second, third or
fourth in the daily routine, it is continued exclusively in
the same class, without break or interruption,, until finished.
The special work indicated consists in conveyancing,
preparation of pleadings, the manner of taking appeals and
office business generally. It is intended more particularly
for the Seniors and Postgraduates. The Senior students
are expected to devote approximately twenty hours a week
to recitations or class work.
By the system outlined in the foregoing paragraph it is
sought to keep each subject before the mind of the student
until he firmly grasps and understands it. Thus it becomes
distinctively and permanently fixed in the mind. The
practice of teaching to the same class one subject one day,
another the next, and still another the day following, as
where non-resident professors, each with a different sub-
ject, follow daily one the other, finds no encouragement at
Notre Dame. Such blending of subjects and intermingling
of principles manifestly tend to confusion of thought and
chaos of subject-matter. It is admittedly very difficult in
such case to comprehend and understand the law as a
symmetrical whole- a system majestic and beautiful in its
harmonious entirety.
POSTGRADUATE COURSE—FOURTH YEAR*
Only graduates in law are admitted to this course. But
these may be from any other university in good standing,
as well as from our own Law Department. A year can
very profitably be given to the work prescribed for gradu-
ation in it. The degree conferred is that of Master of
Laws. The work of this course is eminently practical and
of the greatest possible utility to those who intend to en-
gage in the practice of the profession on their own account
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
149
at an early date, and not to give two or three years of
probation to the drudgery of a clerkship at small salary in
some office.
Bvery year of study greatly increases the interest of the
student in the law and his power to understand it. If
bright and industrious, he ought to do as much effective
work while a Senior as he did during the two preceding
years, and his capacity to learn ought to increase in corre-
sponding ratio in the Postgraduate course. By working
earnestly and devotedly during the year he can review the
studies of the preceding three years and confidently reach
out in other directions to acquire additional knowledge.
The nature of his work and the subjects of his study may
here be briefly indicated:
Study of the Statutes and System of Pleadings of his State.
Practice in taking Depositions.
Frequent Participation in Moot Court Trials.
Arguments on Motions for New Trials.
Preparation of Bills of Exceptions, Briefs, Records and
Abstracts of Records in Appeals.
The Framing of Arguments for a Rehearing.
Duties of Masters in Chancery, Referees and Arbitrators.
Duties of Assignees and Receivers ; also, of Public Officers.
Examination of Abstracts of Title and the Making of
Deeds, Mortgages, Leases, etc., in Conveyancing.
A Critical Study of Pleadings, with Reference to Forms
and Substance.
furisdiction of the Federal Courts.
The Roman Law and Comparative fvrisprudence.
The exercises of the class in office work are attended not
only by the students of the Postgraduate course, but also
by the Seniors. Prom a practical point of view, these
exercises are highly important, and the change in them
annually is sufficient to suggest novelty and make them
very interesting and instructive to the students of succeed-
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
150
ing years, as where Seniors finish the Postgraduate course.
This work includes the examination of abstracts of title,
practical examples in conveyancing, a critical study of the
different forms of pleadings and the general business of a
successfully conducted law office. While even one year of
study in this class is admittedly very helpful, if not actually
necessary, a second year cannot fail to be singularly
beneficial.
THE COMMON LAW
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the daw gen-
erally prevailing throughout the Union—the law that ob-
tains in the States. It addresses itself to almost all the
relations of life. In fact,* about nineteen out of every
twenty cases tried in our courts are decided in
accordance with its principles. It is generally uni-
form in its operation. However, the statutory enact-
ments of State legislators overcome and displace it, so far
as they conflict with its provisions. These enactments
differ materially in the different States, owing to unlike
conditions and local differences. Thus it is that the laws
of certain States are so radically unlike the laws of other
States. Of course, there are instances in which statutes
are passed to cover acts and conditions not provided for by
the common law; but in most instances the existing
statutes simply declare, qualify or render inoperative some
of its rules.
In view of these facts, thorough instruction is here
given in the common law. Neither lawyers nor judges
pretend to know the statutes of any other State than of
that in which they practice or preside. In fact, a
knowledge of the statutes of different States would be more
confusing and bewildering than profitable to judges, law-
yers and students. Moreover, they are liable to be radi-
cally changed from time to time by legislative bodies
\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	151
representing diverse political interests and opinions. In
an examination for admission to the bar of this or any
other State, no question is put and nothing is said relative
to the statutes of sister States. In fact, the States are
treated as foreign to one another in law. There are, how-
ever, certain fundamental statutory enactments that exist
without material diversity in their scope and purpose in
almost all the & States. Again, other statutes somewhat
less important and fundamental in character exist in
groups of States. Such statutes as these may be profitably
studied in class, in connection with the common law ; but
it would be worse than useless for a student to attempt to
investigate and study the mazes of statutory differences in
the several States. Hence, it is suggested as advisable
for each of the Senior and Postgraduate students to pro-
cure and have with him for independent study when he
comes in September a copy of the revised statutes of his
State or the State in which he intends to practice. -
GRADUATES
of the Law Department have met with exceptional success,
it has been noted, in passing examinations for admission to
the bar. Nevertheless, it may be in point to state that it
ought hereafter to be comparatively easy for them to meet
the requirements of the severest tests in that line, in view
of the increase in the number of daily recitations and the
lengthening of the period of instruction. By way of show-
ing the full accord and co-operation of the Faculty in that
regard with the bar and bench of the country, attention
may be drawn to the following authoritative expression on
the subject, which is embodied in a resolution passed by
the American Bar Association in 1897:
. “Resolved, That the American Bar Association approves the
lengthening of the course of instruction in law schools to a period
of three years, and that it expresses the hope that as soon as prac-
ticable a rule may be[adopted in each State, which will require can-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
152
didates for admission to the bar to study law for three years before
applying for admission.”
It would certainly be disappointing now to meet a grad-
uate timid at the prospect of an examination. With the
right spirit and proper training, he ought to face it cheer-
fully and unhesitatingly. Those who perform faithfully
the work assigned to them need have no fear of failure.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings on Wednesday evenings. All students of
the Department are members of it. They are required,
each in his turn, to participate in its debates and other ex-
ercises. The debates commonly deal with questions
germane to the law. But subjects of history, political
economy, and the like, are also in favor. An excellent
opportunity is afforded at the meetings of the society to
develop skill, power and fluency in public speaking. The
graces of the elocutionist and the persuasive powers of the
orator may here be cultivated and improved. All can in-
crease in force and fluency of thought and expression by
attending regularly and participating in the exercises of this
society. Officers are elected twice yearly by the students
themselves. They select also a competent critic to note
the mistakes made in pronunciation or otherwise by the
speakers at each meeting, and to read a carefully prepared
paper correcting the same at the meeting following. A
Professor presides, aids the members with his counsel and
suggestions, and decides the questions under discussion on
the merits of the arguments. A Parliamentary Law meet-
ing, with exercises in elocution and debating, takes place
each Wednesday afternoon.
THE LAW LIBRARY
adjoins and communicates directly with the Lecture Room,
in Sorin Hall. Students have uninterrupted access to it at
all reasonable hours. They may frequent it as often as
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
153
they choose for the purpose of studying cases, preparing for
moot-court trials, finding authorities for their monthly
theses, referring to the cases cited in the text-books and
lectures, or reading the standard treatises. Bvery decision
rendered for many years by the State, Territorial and
Federal courts may here be found. Consequently, not to
repeat other reasons already stated, students are not re-
quired to purchase as many law books as they are obliged
to have in other places. The books ifi the library may be
used by the law students in common as freely as can reason-
ably be wished, and without charge. The same is true in
respect to the vast collection of miscellaneous books in the
Lemonnier Library. Law books may be taken from the
Library to the Lecture Room for use in moot-court trials,
but must afterward be returned. All students have an
equal right to use them, being as- it were tenants in com-
mon in that regard ; but any disposition to invade the
common right, whether through selfishness or thought-
lessness, by attempting to make exclusive use to them, as
in placing them under cover in desks or taking them to
private rooms, must be vigilantly guarded against and im-
partially prohibited. Students have an undoubted
right to expect that when they need any particular book
they can find it in the Library, and not be compelled to
lose valuable time in making inquiry or searching for it
elsewhere.
No discrimination is made between law students and
students of the regular collegiate courses in the matter of
EXPENSES.
The fee for tuition, board, lodging, washing, mending,
etc., is fixed at $400 for the scholastic year. This covers
all necessaries, and, considering the excellent accommo-
dations at Notre Dame, is believed to be very reasonable.
It is said that students elsewhere must pay from $450 to
154
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
$500 a year for like services and accommodations. The
cost of books may be estimated approximately at $7 for the
first year and $30 each for the second and third years.
Students have but little occasion or opportunity to spend
money or to cultivate expensive habits; for they study,
board and lodge at the University — in an atmosphere
favorable to earnest work, and quite apart from the associa-
tions and temptations incident to city life. Terms of pay-
ment and other pertinent information may be found
elsewhere in this catalogue, under the general caption
“Expenses.” It may, perhaps, be well to anticipate
possible inquiries by stating that no additional charge is
made for attending or becoming students of classes in any
of the collegiate courses.
DISCIPLINE	.
The Law students, as well as all others, are expected to
be earnest and industrious in the performance of the duties
devolving upon them, and to secure this end and the fullest
possible utilization of time the same rules of discipline
apply to all students. These rules require promptitude
and regularity in class attendance, uprightness in conduct
and manliness in deportment. Obedience to them tends to
strengthen character, establish wholesome habits and
nourish in heart and mind the qualities that mark the trud
gentleman and persevering scholar, the honored citizen
and successful lawyer, the independent thinker and firm
believer in the illimitable possibilities of industry, per-
severance and self-reliance to win the crown of illustrious
achievements in the domain of life.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
155
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
This course can be completed in two years. It includes
arithmetic, grammar, letter-writing, geography, United
States history, reading, orthography, penmanship, book-
keeping, Commercial Taw—in other words, all the
branches of a complete business education.
When the character and needs of the country are consid-
ered, this course will appear the most practical, and one of
the most important that an educational institution can
offer.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to
take a complete college course in the Classics or Sciences,
would do well to enroll themselves in the Commercial
Course. No plan of study is more injudicious than a hap-
hazard selection of such studies as an inexperienced young
man may fancy. The training resulting from a fixed course
of studies is of the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always re-
ceived the most careful attention from the officers and the
Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims to give the
graduates of this course a more complete business training
than can be obtained in any purely commercial college.
Believing that a business education includes something
more than a mere knowledge of book-keeping, and that a
good education cannot be obtained in a few weeks, the
authorities have extended this course over two years —the
shortest time in which studies necessarily used in business
life can be mastered. Should a pupil desire during this
period to pursue any other studies in which he may be
interested, and for which he has time, he will have liberty
to do so.
156
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
General History and Linear Drawing are especially
recommended to students of this department. They also
have an opportunity of attending an elementary course of
the Physical and Natural Sciences. Many students find
it also to their advantage to keep up the study of German
or French, for which there are the amplest facilities. A
talented and studious young man may thus in the course
of two years find himself in the possession of a most valuable
practical education, which will fit him to take his place in
the front rank of educated business men.
JUNIOR YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
L Arithmetic — Written and Mental — To Decimal
Fractions (exclusive). Normal Union Arithmetic, Brooks.
2.	Grammar — To Irregular Verbs (inclusive). Re-
vised English Grammar.
3*	Letter Writing.
4.	Reading and Orthography.
5.	Geography — General Geography of the World;
Special Geography of the United States.
6.	United States History — Through the French and
Indian War, Anderson.
7.	Penmanship.
SECOND TERM.
L Arithmetic — Decimal Fractions; Denominate Num-
bers ; Practical Measurements. Normal Union Arithmetic,
Brooks.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	157
2.	Grammar — From Irregular Verbs to Syntax. Re-
vised English Grammar.
3.	Letter Writing*
4* Reading and Orthography*
5* Geography — Special Geography of South America,
Europe, Asia, and Africa.
6* United States History — From the French and
Indian War to the present time, Anderson.
7. Penmanship.
SENIOR YEAR*
FIRST TERM*
L Arithmetic — Percentage; Ratio and Proportion; as
far as Involution and Involution. Normal Union Arithme-
tic, Brooks.
2. Bookkeeping — Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions ; Initiatory Sets by double Entry; Retailing by Double
Entry; special practice in writing Business Paper and
Business forms. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams
and Rogers.
3* Grammar—Syntax. Revised English Grammar.
4.	Letter Writing.
5.	Reading and Orthography.
6.	Penmanship.	'
SECOND TERM.
1.	Arithmetic—Percentage, Ratio and Proportion (re-
viewed ); Involution and Evolution; Arithmetical and
Geometrical Series; Higher Percentage; Mensuration ;
Arithmetical Analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks.
158
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
2.	Bookkeeping — Single Entry, changing Single to
Double Entry; Retailing; Wholesaling; Shipping and
Commission ; Jobbing; Manufacturing ; Installment and
State Agencies ; Joint Stock Companies; Banking; Rail-
roading ; Steamboating; Buying and Selling, Remitting,
Collecting, Discounting, Accepting and Paying Bills of
Exchange. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and
Rogers
3.	Composition— Study of the Theory of English
Composition; frequent exercise in Essay and Tetter Writ-
ing, etc. The foundations of Rhetoric.
4.	Orthography*
5* Commercial Law — General principles of Contracts ;
Agency ; Partnership ; Corporations; Guaranty ; Sale of
Goods; Negotiable Paper. Richardson.
6* Penmanship.
Preparatory Department*

160
UNIVERSITY OU NOTRE DAME.
For the Classical, English and Economic Courses*
[For description of courses see pages 163-174.]
FIRST YEAR,
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
Latin, - - -	5	A	Eatin, - - -	5	A
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
History, - -	3	A	History, - -	3	A
Mathematics, -	5	A	Mathematics, -	5	B
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	3	D
SECOND YEAR.
Eatin, - - -	5	B	Eatin, - - -	5	B
Greek, - - -	4	A	Greek, - - -	4	A
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
History, - -	3	B	History, - -	3	B
Mathematics, -	5	C	Mathematics, -	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Eatin, - - -	5	C	Latin, - - -	5	C
Greek, - - -	4	B	Greek, - - -	4	' B
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	C
History, - -	3	C	History, - -	3	C
Mathematics, -	5	E	Science, - -	3	C
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	D	Latin, - - -	5	D
Greek, - - -	4	C	Greek, - - -	4	C
English, - -	4	D	English, - -	4	D
Ger. or French	5		, Ger. or French	5	
Science, - -	5	E	i Science, - -	5	F
Students in the English and Economic Courses will begin German or French
in the second year instead of Greek and continue it during the two remaining
years.
Students that begin French in the second year will take up German in the
fourth year. Students that begin German in the second year will take up French
in the fourth year. Classical Students will begin French or German in the
fourth year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	l6l
For the Biological and General Science Courses.
[For description of courses see pages 163—174.]
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. Week	COURSE
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
Mathematics, -	5	‘A	Mathematics, -	5	B
Latin, - - -	5	A	Latin, - - -	5	A
Drawing, - -	3	A	Drawing, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	A	Science, - -	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
Mathematics, -	5	C	Mathematics, -	5	D
History, - -	3	A	History - -	3	A
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	5	C
Latin, - - -	5	B	Latin, - - -	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	C
Mathematics, -	5		Mathematics, -	5	F
German, - -	5	A	German, - -	5	A
Science, - - -	5		Science, - -	5	
History, - -	3	B	History - -	3	B
FOURTH YEAR.
English, - -	5	D	English, - -	5	D
German, - -	3	B	German, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	F	Science, - -	5	F
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
History, - -	3	C	History - -	3	C
Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A •	Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A
General Science Students will take Trigonometry in the fourth year instead
of Civil Government.
Biological Students will take four hours Qfpraydng in the second term of the
third year instead of Mathematics F.
162
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
£
For the Engineering and Architectural Courses*
[For description of courses see pages 163-174.]
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
Mathematics, -	5	A	Mathematics, -	5	B
History, - -	- 3	A	History, - -	3	A
Science, - -	5	A	Science, - -	5	D
Drawing, - -	3	A -	Drawing, - -	3	B
SECOND YEAR.
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
Mathematics, -	5	C	Mathematics, -	5	D
History, - -	3	B	History, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	5	C
Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A	Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A
THIRD YEAR.
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	C
Mathematics, -	5	E '	Mathematics, -	5	F
German, - -	5	. A	German, - -	5	A
Science, - -	5	' E	Science, - -	5	E
History, - -	3	C	History, - -	3	C
FOURTH YEAR.
English, - -	5	D	English, - -	5	D
Mathematics, -	5	G	Mathematics, -	5	H
German, - -	3	B	German, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	F	Science, - -	5	F
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
163
PREPARATORY COURSE
COURSES IN LATIN.
Grammar — Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises —: Rudiments of Latin, Reynolds.
[Five hours a week for one year. ]
B.
Grammar — Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar — Books I.—IV.; or, Junior Latin Book.
Prose Composition — Based on Caesar..
[Five hours a week for one year.]
G
Grammar — Syntax, -Bennett.
Nepos — Selected Lives.
Sallust — Catiline.
Cicero — Orations I.—HI., Against Catiline.
Prose Composition — Based on Authors read.
[Five hours a week for one yeard\
D.
Grammar — Complete Review.
*
Cicero — Three Orations, including Pro Lege Manilia.
Vergil—Aeneid, Six Books. The explanations cover
peculiarities of Syntax, Figures, Mythology.
• Prosody — Study of Hexameter Verse.
Prose Composition — Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for one year J
164	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN GREEK*
A*
Grammar—Etymology, Goodwin.
Exercises — First Greek Book, White.
Epitome of the New Testament — Part I., Stoffel.
^Four hours a week for one year. ]	’
B.
Grammar — Etymology Reviewed, Syntax, Goodwin.
Xenophon — Anabasis, Four Books.
Prose Composition — Based on Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament — Part II., Stoffel.
\Four hours a week for one year.]
C.
Grammar — Syntax, Goodwin.
Xenophon—Memorabilia, or Hellenica.
Prose Composition.
Homer — Iliad, Six Books. Homeric language and
verse. Grammatical explanations.
Epitome of the New Testament— Part III., Stoffel.
\_Four hours a week for one year J
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
°	A.
(a)	Meiklejohn’s Art of Writing English, with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The elements of versification. Scansion, one hour
a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Memory
work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	165
(c)	Required reading : - Poe’s Poems, Evangeline, Fior-
etti, Snow-Bound, The Vision of Sir Launfal, Ancient
Mariner, The Sketch Book, Robinson Crusoe, Poe’s Tales,
Treasure Island, The Merchant of Venice, fulius Caesar.
( Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
.	[Five hours a week for one yeari\
B,
(a)	Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric. Part I., with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The simpler verse-for ms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: The Lady of the Lake, Silas
Marner, The Princess, The Flight of the Tartar Tribes, The
Courtship of Miles Standish, Ivanhoe, As You Like It,
Macbeth.	'
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five timers a week for one year.]
(a)	Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with daily
exercises in class. Fortnightly theme.
(b)	Verse-forms continued. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c)	Required reading: The Golden Treasury of English
Lyrics, Milton’s Minor Poems, Macaulay’s Bssay on Mil ton,
Sir Roger de Cover ley, Macaulay’s Bssay on Addison,
Burke’s Speech on the Conciliation of America, Webster’s
Bunker Hill Oration, Lincoln’s Gettysburg Oration, A
Midsummer Night's Dream, King Lear.
(Some of these works to b^thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one year.]
166	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
(a)	Genung’’S The Working Principles of Rhetoric, Part
I., with daily exercises in class. Monthly essay.
(b)	Verse-forms concluded. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c)	Required reading: Selections from Paradise Lost,
Cary’s Dante and Pope’s Homer, The Idylls of the King,
The Dream of Gerontiibs, Aubrey de Vere’s Poems, The
Tempest, Hamlet, Gates’ Selections from Newman, The
House of the Seven Gables.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
\Four hours a week for one yearly
COURSES IN HISTORY*
A.
Ancient History — Fisher’s Outlines of Universal His-
tory. The Oriental Nations. The History of Greece and-
of the Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The
Establishment of the Empire, and the rise of Christianity.
\Three hours a week for one yearly
ci	*
B.
Mediaeval History — Fisher’s Oidlines. The Barbarians
and their Kingdoms. Mahommedanism and the Saracen
Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire. The Invasion of the
Northmen and the Magyars. The Empire and the Papacy.
The Crusades The Great Schism and the rise of the
nations of Modern Europe.
\Three hours a week for one yearly
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
167
G
Modem History — Fisher’s Outlines. The Renaissance.
The Age of Discovery. The Protestant Reformation. The
Power of Spain. The Strifes of France with Spain and
Germany. The age of Louis XVI., and the rise of Russia.
The Spanish and Austrian Successions. The Empire
of England. The American Revolution. The French
Revolution and the Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions
and the Spirit of Nationality. The Formation of Germany
and Italy.	•
\Three hours a week for one year.]
COURSE IN CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
A.
This is a study of the science of government in connec-
tion with American institutions, and is intended to give
the student some knowledge of the general principles of
government and of the American Constitution. The sub-
ject begins by defining government; then is considered the
object and necessity of government; origin of civil society;
the principle of suffrage; different forms of government
defined and compared ; theories of representation. These
topics necessarily are treated briefly, as the principal part
of the course consists of a study of the Colonial govern-
ments, the Articles of Confederation and their defects, the
formation of the Constitution and its adoption. Now the
study comprises a critical analysis of each article and
section of the American Constitution, thus enabling the
student to acquire a clear conception of the division of
powers, of the National Government and the duties and
responsibilities of each department.
[ Two hours a week for one yea?.]
168
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN MATHEMATICS.
Algebra — This course for beginners in Algebra includes
a study of the primary fundamental principles necessary to
the courses which follow. The subjects dwelt upon in
particular are Factoring, Highest Common Factor and
Least Common Multiple, which are afterward applied in
their relation to Fractions and the reduction of Complex
Fractions. In as far as possible, concrete examples of
their applications to kindred scientific subjects are supplied
by the teacher.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
B.
Algebra—In this course the study of Bquations is be-
gun and continued through equations of the first degree.
Fractional Bquations, Systems of Simultaneous Bquations,
Involution, Bvolution, Radicals and Bxponents complete
the course which is supplemented wherever possible with
problems of practical application.
[Five hours a week for one termf
G
Algebra — This course begins with Quadratic Bquations,
Pure and Affected, followed by Systems of Simultaneous
Quadratic Bquations and those forms of Radical Bquations
of Higher Degree which may be solved by quadratic
methods. Ratio and Proportion, Indeterminate Bquations,
Surds, Imaginaries, Inequalities, the Progressions and the
Binomial Theorem finish the work in this course. As in
the preceding courses, special stress is placed upon the
application of the theory to such examples as will show its
application to elementary scientific subjects.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	169
D*
Geometry—This subject is completed as far as the end
of Plane Geometry and includes a study of the theorems
with proofs of exercises and original propositions. The
habit of independent thinking is cultivated to some extent
by the solution of special problems of a concrete nature
intended to exhibit the relation of the processes studied to
practical examples.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
E
Geometry — The study of Solid Geometry is taken up in
this term, the course being an extension of that of the
preceding term. Planes, Solid Angles, Polyhedrons, the
Cylinder, Cone and Sphere are all studied in detail and the
solution of original exercises and propositions of applica-
tion is made a feature of the course.
[Five hours a week for one term.~\	'
E
Algebra and Geometry — This course which continues
through one scholastic year is designed especially for those
students who wish to take up the study of Engineering.
As this necessitates a thorough groundwork in mathe-
matics the first half of the year is given to a review of
Algebra and Geometry, three hours and two hours per week
respectively. The most important theorems and subjects
are again studied and a more comprehensive view of the
subject is attained in the generalizing of many theorems
and extending the range of others.
[Five hours a week for one term. ]
G*
Algebra and Geometry—The work of this term is
entirely given up to an elementary exposition of the appli-
17O	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
cation of mathematics to scientific problems and to analysis.
In lectures and class work actual problems representing
existing and practical conditions will be taken up, and the
derivation of approximate formulae and an elementary
study of curves derived from experiment are included.
[Five hours a week for one terrnf
H.
Trigonometry — A half year is given to this subject
which includes both Plane and Spherical Trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
elementary text-books. Special* attention is given to
Goniometry on account of its application to Calculus, and
examples of a concrete nature are abundantly supplied.
[Five hours a week for one teims^
COURSES IN SCIENCE.
A.
Physical Geography — An introductory and elementary
study of the earth and its environments. The student will
be led into a closer sympathy with the world about him.
The various types of plant and animal life together with
topographical and climatic conditions will be considered.
[Five hours a week for one termf
B.	•
Physiology — Lectures, recitations and demonstrations
with the stereopticon. The study of the human skeleton
including the physiology and hygiene of the bones. The
action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles. The
digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demonstrated
UNIVERSITY OT NOTRE DAME.
I71
by models and charts. The anatomy and structure of the
nervous system and simple experiments on the same.
Text-book, Martin.
[Five hours a week for one tennb\
Elementary Botany — A course for beginners in this
subject; it includes a study of the higher plants with ref-
erence to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and seed.
An introduction to the lower forms of plant life and their
classification is also given. Text-book, Bastin'1 s Elements
of Botany.
[Three hours a week for one termb\
D*
Elementary Zoology — Includes an introduction to the
subject with studies of representative forms and their
classification in the different groups of the animal king-
dom. The subject is taught by recitations and laboratory
work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Three hours a week for one termh\
E.	*
(a)	Elementary Chemistry — An Introductory Course
of experimental lectures on familiar subjects such as water,
the air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena of
Chemistry. Reference-book, Remsen.
(b)	Experimental Chemistry — A Taboratory Course to
accompany Course (a). A series of exercises to be per-
formed by each student, and having as their main object
the cultivation of the student’s powers of observation and
faculty of inductive reasoning. These exercises comprise
a study of the principal metallic elements, including their
172
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
preparation, properties and more familiar compounds. The
directions for each, experiment are made as brief as possible,
the observation of facts and the drawing of correct con-
clusions therefrom being left, so far as the nature of the
experiment will permit, to the pupil.
I
F.	*
Elementary Physics—A course of recitations and lec-
tures, including Mechanics, Heat, Sound, Light, Blectricity
and Magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experi-
ments.
G*
Astronomy - Descriptive — This course is intended to
give students as much knowledge of astronomical facts as
can be obtained with only an elementary training in
mathematics. The study consists of a description of the
earth; its form, size, density and motion; a study of the
moon and her motions; the sun and its relation to the
earth; an account of eclipses, refraction and aberration of
light. A description of the planets, their distances,
dimensions and physical conditions; a study of parallax,
diurnal and annual; an account of meteors and comets.
A study of the stars and constellations; instruction is
given to enable students to name and locate the more
prominent. The subject of Cosmogony is considered briefly
as well as an explanation of the different systems of
Astronomy. The subject is given both by lectures and
text-book.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
* For the Preparatory School of Arts and Tetters this course is
five hours a week for one term. In the other preparatory schools
this course is five hours a week for one year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
173
COURSES IN FRENCH.
A.
Houghton’s French by reading. Un Cas de Conscience.
Super’s Reading from French History.
\_Five hours a week for one year. ]
B.
French Composition. IC Avare} Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon. Le Roi des Montagnes.
\_Three hours a week for one yearly
G
La Poicdre attx Yeicx. Athalie. Hemani. Les Confes-
sions d'un Ouvrier. Le Bat bier de Seville. Le Malade
Imaginaire. Les Fourbevies de Scapin. Pourceaugnac. Les
Facheux. L’ Amour Medecin. Le Misanthrope. Cinna.
Polyeucte.
[ Two hours a week for one yea?.]
COURSES IN GERMAN.
A.
Grammar—foynes-Meissner. Deutches Desebuch, Bone.
Themes — Original and imitative work.
\_Five hours a week for one year. ]
B.
. Special Course for students in the English and Scientific
Courses.	•
Grammar —foynes-Meissner
Readings from scientific and literary works. •
\Three hours a week for one yearf\
174	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
C,
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN DRAWING,
A,
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
•consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of various
forms.
[Three hours a week for one Term.~\
B,
Advanced work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which afford
the study of light and shade.
[ Three hours a week for one Term ]
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK,
The studies of the Preparatory Department here out-
lined are equivalent to those of a High School, There is
also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are taught
all the branches of a Grammar School, and students have
every opportunity of preparing themselves as rapidly as
possible for High School and collegiate work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	175
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
For the care and training of boys under the age of thir-
teen years, there has been established a department to
which the most scrupulous attention has always been paid
by the college authorities: it is known as the Minim
Department.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here im-
parted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of Latin,
French and German. Vocal Music and Drawing involve
no extra charge. The pupils of this department are taught
by Sisters of the Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day : Rising at 6 :40
A. m. , toilet, etc. ; seven, breakfast, after which there is a
short time given for exercise on the campus; half-past
seven, study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, study; a
quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by
recreation ; half-past one, study ; half-past three, recreation
and luncheon; half-past six, supper and recreation ; half-
past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that while
the Minims devote less than six hours a day to study, they
are never more than two hours in succession in the class-
room. The recreation and exercise in the fresh air after
each two hours of study, unbend the mind and prepare the
boys to return to their classes refreshed and ready for
work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and the
Study-hall. The presence, however, of the prefect, is far
176	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
from being a restraint on the amusement of the boys; for
while it is the duty of the prefects to insist that their young
charges shall always keep within the limits of the strictest
propriety, they, at the same time, take part in all sports,
organize games, and do everything in their power to foster
the love for exercise. The play-ground is a broad, level,
five-acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all other necessary gym-
nastic apparatus. That the boys make good use of them
can be seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which
invariably attracts the notice of visitors. Connected with
the play-ground is a brick play-hall, 160 feet long and
heated by steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or
cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend
the clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and
convience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few days.
Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care is taken
that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the clothing be
suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES*
There are two societies in the Minim Department; that
of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its
object to supply servers for the Church offices; and the
Sorin Association, which has been established with a view
to give the pupils a start, as early as possible, in elocution.
The society is presided over by one of the professors, who
finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the talent of these
interesting young orators. Meetings are held once a week,
after school hours. These meetings are a source of
pleasure as well as of profit. The members prepare original
compositions, deliver declamations, are trained to debate,
etc. Only the best behaved and more advanced in studies
are admitted to membership. To encourage this young
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	177
Literary Society, a Gold Medal for Elocution is annually
awarded at Commencement to the most deserving member.
GENERAL REMARKS*	<
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to students more
advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punish-
ment. Those in charge endeavor to govern by kindness
and gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense of
honor. The names of all whose conduct and application
to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads of Roll
of Honor and Class Honors. To find his name mentioned
in these rolls, is found to be as great a reward for the de-
serving pupil, as its non-appearance is a punishment for
the undeserving.
Then, too, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to those whose deportment has been unex-
ceptionable during that period. As this fact is made known
to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he generally
endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to receiving an
‘ ‘ Honor. ’ ’ The greatest care is taken to form their young
hearts to habits of virtue,- and to inculcate the practice of
refined manners. Every effort is made to foster respect
and affection for parents, to whom they are expected to
4 write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims,
is their complete separation from the larger students. A
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, afford-
ing ample accommodations for over one hundred pupils, is
devoted to their use. It is four stories in height, one hun-
dred and fifty feet long, and forty-five feet wide ; heated by
steam, supplied throughout with the Edison incandescent
electric light, and provided with hot and cold water. The
ceilings in the study-hall, class-rooms and sleeping
apartments are fifteen feet high. The windows are large
178	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
and numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation,
The Study-Hall commands a charming view from each of
its eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated with
statuary, pictures, plants, etc. Beside the pleasure the
Minims derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall,
their tastes are cultured by coming in contact with objects
so refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park,
which, with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not
a little to the beauty of St. Bd ward’s Hall as well as to the
happiness of its inmates.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents
and others who frequently write for more detailed informa-
tion, will show that, while the Minims have every
advantage to aid them in acquiring a foundation for future
study, they have a home, where they enjoy the same ease
and freedom that they would enjoy under the care of their
mothers. For further information regarding the Minim
Department apply for a special catalogue.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
179
EXPENSES, MINIM DEPARTMENT.
( For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.)
Matriculation Fee (First year only)..........J	10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and
Bedding, etc., per session of nearly ten months, 250.00
Payable in Advance, as follows:
First Payment : On Bntrance in September:
Matriculation Fee..............................$ 10.00
Board and Tuition............................. 150.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account.......... 5.00
Gymnasium....................................... 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course...................... 1.00
Music (optional).. For rates see below.
Second Payment: On January 15th:
Balance on Board and Tuition..................$100.00
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons,
and the use of instrument in this department is $35.00;
for Violin, Guitar or Mandolin, $25.00.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40,00.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Lach pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of
underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handkerchiefs,
six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or caps, two
pairs of shoes, a pair of rubbers, three suits of clothes, an
overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap, and a hand
mirror. This direction concerning clothing is a suggestion,
not a regulation. Any of the above supplies can be pro-
cured through the Students’ Office at the University.
180	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS.
From September, 1903, to June, 1904.
In this list are not included the names of those students
who were dismissed or withdrawn at the request of the
College authorities during the scholastic year.
Antoine, Laurence M..........................Illinois
Andrew, Vaughan L...........................Wisconsin
Alderman, Dallas G-...........................Indiana
Abell, Walter R...............................Maryland	’
Armas, Pedro.....................................Cuba
Anderson, Robert E...............................Ohio
Andert, Joseph L..............................Indiana
Arsuaga, Miguel............................Puerto	Rico
Alvarez, Herminio...............................Spain
Burns, Edward....
Barry, Francis J...
Ba tile, Evaristo R.
Batlie, Jose G...
Bringas, Carlos B..
Beam, CarlR......
Bernard, Joseph D.
Bracken, Robert...
Burns, Raymond J
Beacom, Patrick A
Baird, Ai E......
Byrne, Francis P..
Baker, Howard S..
Bastar, Stuart C...
Branen, George D
Barrett, Wm. P...
Bach,James H....
Bradley, Wm. R..
Bosler, Wm. N....
Burgett, D. Azero. .
Brooks, Butler L-
Brogan, John F...
... .New York
.Illinois
......Spain
......Spain
......Mexico
.Illinois
.... California
.......Illinois
. Pennsylvania
....Iowa
....Indiana
Massachusetts
....Michigan
....Michigan
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
.... Minnesota
.......Illinois
.... Kentucky,
.......Illinois
......Missouri
....... Oregon
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
181
Brown, Arthur A..................................Indiana
Brown, Vincent J..............................Minnesota.
Berteling, John F................................Indiana
Bassett, Royl....................................Indiana
Baude, Francis H................................Illinois
Buxbaum, Joseph H...............................Illinois
Butler, Thomas P............................Pennsylvania
Bromberg, Louis L...............................Illinois
Bromberg, George W..............................Illinois
Branen, Charles J..........................B. C., Canada
Beers, Herbert A....................................Ohio
Baillargeon, Cebert J.........................Washington
Baillargeon, John A...........................Washington
Brennan, Francis............................Pennsylvania
Babbitt, Bertrand H..............................Arizona
Bentley, J. Marvin..........................South	Dakota
Brinkmann, Clemens U. F.........................Illinois
Byrne, Paul V...................................Illinois
Byrne, Thomas A.................................Illinois
Byrnes, Ashton V................................Michigan
Broderick, Lester R............................  Indiana
Bennett, Lowell L.............................  Illinois
Brennan, Joseph.............................Pennsylvania
Barry, Richard..................................Illinois
Bagby, Claude A.................................Colorado
Brown, Edward P................................Minnesota
Brown, Maurice J...............................Minnesota
Beriault, Arthur J...............................Indiana
Brennan, Daniel P................................Indiana
Buenger, George A...................................Ohio
Burke, Joseph H..............................  Wisconsin
Campbell, Matthew A........................  West	Virginia
Carey, Louis J................................  Michigan
Cullinan, Joseph J..........................     Indiana
Canedo, Ignacio...........-.......................Mexico
Conboy, Francis J................................Indiana
Canedo, Enrique O...............................  Mexico
Cahill, James L..............................  .Illinois
Cano, Ignacio............................Yucatan,	Mexico
Cullinan, Charles J.;.. ....................Pennsylvania
Carrigan, Joseph F........................    California
182
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Cushing, John F................................Nebraska
Cullinan, Daniel A.........................Pennsylvania
Conron, Raymond F..............................Illinois
Craig, Leo F...............................South Dakota
Casey, James M..................................Indiana
Cary, Howard C.................................Illinois
Cain, Patrick C..............................  Illinois
Condon, Edward J................................Indiana
Conway, Edward A.................................  Iowa
Coontz, J. Leo.................................Missouri
Colahan, Wm. P.............................Pennsylvania
Crepeau, Joseph.............................    Indiana
Creveling, Thomas F. H.........................Missouri
Conover, Huntington St. Clair..................Illinois
Clarke, Matthew G...............................Indiana
Clarke, John R.................................Illinois
Coleman, Edward W............................  Illinois
Carraher, Mortimer B.........................Washington
Cook, Jay A.....................................Indiana
Condon, John J.................................Illinois
Cruz, Jose L................................     Mexico
Cressy, Thornton A..............................Indiana
Coan, Frank H..............................   Tennessee
Cooley, Willard D..................................Iowa
Cavanaugh, John R... ........................  Illinois
Comstock, Walter.............................  Illinois
Coleman, Bradford N........................West Virginia
Cornell, Thomas H..........................Pennsylvania
Cartier, Antpine.............................  Michigan
Cotter, William..............................  Illinois
Connolly, Raymond A........................    Illinois
Connolly, Edward J...........................  Illinois
Connolly, Cassius H............................Illinois
Collier, Francis T.............................  Canada
Cunningham, James V............................Illinois
Cunningham, John J.........................    Illinois
Callicrate, Dominic L.................. .........Indiana
Carolin, Ralph...............................  Michigan
Carey, William A..............................Wisconsin
Dwan, Leo G................................North Dakota
Dwan, Aloysius J...........................North Dakota
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	183
Daly, Walter M.............•	• • •........South.	Dakota
Dubbs, James A..................................Illinois
Dillon, Daniel C............................Pennsylvania
Donnelly, Thomas L. K...........................Michigan
Dolan, Francis J...........................Massachusetts
DuBrul, Clarence J..................................Ohio
Draper, William A...............................Illinois
Dowling, John H...........'.....................Kentucky
Devine, Clementi/...................................Ohio
Del Rio, Ignacio.................................Mexico
Diebold, Howard J..........................Pennsylvania
Darragh,’ Albert M............................Louisiana
Darragh, C. Leonard.......................... Louisiana
Daly, Byrne M................................      Ohio
Davis, Earl M.............................North Dakota
Donovan, Richard W.............................Illinois
Daschbach, Raymond J.......................Pennsylvania
Daschbach, Herbert L.......................Pennsylvania
Dechant, William E.................................Ohio
Donovan, William J........................South Dakota
Defrees, Victor W.............................. Indiana
Duque, Alberto.......................Peru,	South America
Duckett, Wm, W...................................Michigan
Daly, Clarence J................................ Colorado
Dilday, Ralph W................................  .Indiana
Del Valle, Manuel F................................Mexico
Darst, Thomas B......................................Ohio
Dinah, Robert L...................................Indiana
Donahue, Henry D................................Illinois
Dirks, John F...................................Colorado
Dunfee, Calvin L................................Illinois
Dawson, Joseph P...
Duque, Carlos A....
Dean, John A.......
Donahoe,.Leo A.....
Donnelly, Thomas V
Devers, John A....
Donahue, Joseph A..
*• Davis, Ernest A...
Dukette, Francis F..
......West Virginia
Peru, South America
......Illinois
.Michigan
.Texas
......Pennsylvania
...........Indiana
...........Indiana
..........Michigan
Enriquez, Benjamin R..............................Mexico
184	UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME.
Emerson, William J................................Alaska
East, Carrol.....................................Indiana
Ehrke, Frederick R..............................Michigan
Eaton, Garland R.................................Indiana
Ehrmann, Frank P....................................Ohio
Escher, Edward P............................Pennsylvania
Eden, Clifford D.................................Michigan	■
Edmonds, Wm. M................................New York
Exum, Wm, J................................   .Tennessee
Fitzgibbon, John J..............................Illinois
Fansler, Michael L...............................Indiana
Fahey, Bernard S.................................Georgia
Farabaugh, Gallitzen A........'.............Pennsylvania
Feeley, Wm. P...................................Illinois
Fisher, Harold P................................Kentucky
Fetherston, Ronis M.................................Iowa
Furlong, Nicholas R.............................Illinois
Flaherty, James J...............................Illinois
Funk, Arthur S.................................Wisconsin
Franchere, John E...................................Iowa
Farrell, Francis T..............................Illinois
Fox, Oscar A.....................................Indiana
Fehan, James P................................New York
Fleming, Shirley J..................................Ohio
Farragher, John.....................................Ohio
Fernandez, Alberto C..............................Mexico
Fanger, John C......................................Ohio
Freudenstein, Benjamin M..........................Mexico
Fox, Mark H....................................Wisconsin
Fox, John McD..................................Wisconsin
Farrell, Daniel G.........................'......Illinois
Frossard, Emil...........................Indian	Territory
Felix, Glen H.............•	• • •.............  Illinois
Freudenstein, Alvin R.............................Mexico
Follansbee, Russell C.......................’...Illinois
Fiffe, Arthur A...................................Kansas
Finner, Charles R................................ Canada
Finnegan, George J.......;.......'............New York
Flaherty, Edward M...............................Indiana
Forrestal, Peter P.............................Wisconsin
Griffin, Maurice....................................Ohio
o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I85
♦
Gardiner. Wm. K................................New York
Gormley, George E..............................Wisconsin
Guerra, Samuel J..............................    Mexico
Guerra, Gustavo I.................................Mexico
Geoghegan, Harry J.............................New York
Greene, Edward T..............................  Illinois
Gruber, Earl F...................................Indiana
Garcia, Juan A.................................New	Mexico
Goeke, Robert H.....................................Ohio
Gehlert, Thomas J.............................  Michigan
Gerrard, Condon..................................Indiana
Gerraughty, Thomas P...........................  Montana
Gray, Richard D............................     Michigan
Garcia, Eelix.....................................  Cuba
Green, Wm. G..................................  Illinois
Gallart, Jose P................................     Cuba
Greene, Thomas E............-...................Illinois
Gagen, Harry E.................................  Indiana
Genrich, Muri F..............................   Michigan
Grove, Wm. H..............................      Illinois
Goulden, George P...............................Illinois
Gering, Charles A.. ........................    Illinois
Gallart, Juan B.................................... Cuba
Greene, Clarence W............................  Illinois
Gasman, Wm, F..............................  South	Dakota-
Gebhardt, Charles J............................  Indiana
Gorman, John J..................................Illinois
Griffin, Daniel G..............................  Ireland
Hammer, Thomas A.................................New	York
Hammer, Edward T. F..............................New	York
Hammer, Ernest E. D............................."New	York
Hogan, Harry G...................................Indiana
Harris,. Thomas M...............................Illinois
Herrmann, George^ A.............................Illinois
Healey, Thomas F................................Illinois
Hoff* Albert S.................................Wisconsin
Hurst, Roscoe P.................................Illinois
Haney, Charles E.................................Indiana
Henry, John W.......................................Ohio
Hanzel, Francis J..............................Minnesota
Hartzer, Francis W...............................Indiana
1
i86
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Horn, John C...................................Indiana
Hughes, Henry C..................................Texas
Hatfield, Wm. E........-.......................Indiana
Harbin, Frank W..............................Tennessee
Hoban, Martin C................................Indiana
Hudson, Thomas E..................................Ohio
Hart, Eaurence A.............................  Indiana
Hall, John R......................................Ohio
Hazinski, Alexander S...........................Indiana
Heyl, Wm. J................................Pennsylvania
Houser, Benjamin J.........................    .Indiana
Hearn, Victor J...........................    Minnesota
Hartnett, Wm. A...............................New York
Hilton, Hoyt W...............................  Illinois
Heeb, Eouis B.... •..............................Illinois
Hopkins, Franklin P.........................  Minnesota
Hirtenstein, Joseph..........................  Illinois
Halloran, James P......................South Dakota
Hickman, Harold E. D.........................  Illinois
Hoffman, Stuart S..................................Iowa
Hein, Joseph F.........................      .Wisconsin
Hennessey, Wm. J........................      .Colorado
Hagerty, Timothy P.............................  Indiana
Hagerty, Charles D.............................  Indiana
Haight, Charles E............................   Michigan
Hayes, Francis A................................Illinois
Hebert, Alfred J.........................    Michigan
Hebert, Peter X..............................Michigan
Hosinski, Sylvester A.......................  Indiana
Hinds, Charles E..............................New	York
Haines, Emerson E..............................  Indiana
Hilton, Albertus A.  .......................... Illinois
Ill, Alphonse P..
Irving, Thomas P
....Ohio
Wisconsin
Jamieson, William D..............................Illinois
Johnson, Harold C....................................Ohio
Joyce, Walter E.................................Wisconsin
Jennings, Raymond S...........................  Wisconsin
Jeffries, Arthur M..............................  Indiana
Joyce, Thomas M......................................Iowa
Johnson. Charles H...........................South	Dakota
fe.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	187
Jordan, Janies D...........................Pennsylvania
Jordan, Martin J...........................Pennsylvania
9 Joy, Charles H.. .............................  Illinois
Jones, Walter B................................Illinois
Jordan, Janies T...............................Illinois
Jones, Thomas J.............................   .Indiana
Kasper, Fred J.................................Illinois
Kennedy, Clarence J............................Illinois
Kasper, Robert A...............................Illinois
Kanaley, Byron V...............................New	York
Kahler, Charles P............................  Maryland
Kiely, Robert M...............................Missouri
Keiler, Leo F...........*......................Kentucky
Kotte, Albert A....................................Ohio
Kemper, Henry M..............................  Illinois
Kerr, Michael J............................Pennsylvania
Kasper, Francis P............................  Illinois
Kane, Charles J............................Pennsylvania
Keach, Leroy J..................................Indiana
Kenefick, Matthew J.............................Indiana
Kenny, Thomas J............................Pennsylvania
Keeffe, James T..................................  Iowa
Kolupa, Ladislaus A.............................Indiana
Krembs, Moritz................................Wisconsin
Knox, DeWitt.......................................Utah
Knox, George G.....................................Utah
' Kreidler, Elmer D.............................Indiana
Knauf, Arthur R...............................Wisconsin
Kelly, Daniel T.............................  New	Mexico
Kreer, George W................................Michigan
Kuhn, Ferdinand J..............................Michigan
Krost, Gerard N...................'.............Indiana
Kelley, Charles H.............................Minnesota
Kinney, John E..................................... Ohio
Kinney, James L....................................Ohio
Kasper, Wm. H..................................Illinois
Kroth, Francis J..................................Illinois
Kelly, Clarence J.    ............................Illinois
Knight, Edgar L..............................  Michigan
Kasper, Simon L................................Illinois
Kranz, Herbert E..............................  •	• • Iowa
188	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kauffman, John J....................................  Ohio
Krause, Edmund E..................................Illinois
Kesselhuth, Howard W.............................Wisconsin
Eally, Addis E...................................Iowa
Eomelin, Ignacio F.............................Mexico
Eyman, Paull.........................•...........Ohio
Eynch, H. Meyer.............................Wisconsin
Eamprey, John E- • • ■
Eoughran, Francis J.
Eyons, Thomas D. -..
Eochray, Thomas F.
Eally, Ralph R......
Eantry, Joseph T....
Eonergan, Francis J.
Eitzelmann, Harry E
Eamb, Rex...........
Eeonard, John K....
Easher, Eeonard....
.... Minnesota
......Illinois
• South Dakota
......Montana
.. Pennsylvania
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Michigan
. West Virginia
.....Illinois
Eawless, William P..............................Illinois
Eomba, Angel........................................Cuba
Eucas, Philip....................................Indiana
Eegault, Fred D................................Wisconsin
Eynch, John J...................................Illinois
Eeftwich, Burwell O.............................Missouri
Eangendorf, Samuel............................ Illinois
Eangdon, Malcom E..................................Ohio
Eyon, David F..................................Illinois
Eacey, Maurice A..............................Wisconsin
Eatimer, Francis D............................Illinois
Euzny, Paul P................................Indiana
Eahey, Thomas A.............................Indiana
Eangdon, Wm. M...........................   Nebraska
Eangdon, J. EeRoy..........................Nebraska
Mercado, Salvador D.............................Mexico
Meyers, Joseph J...............................  .Iowa
Murphy, Daniel E..............................Illinois
Muriel, Jose....................................Mexico
Munsch, Albert A..........................Pennsylvania
Munsch, Francis X. ••.....................Pennsylvania
Medrano, Joachim H.. >............................Cuba
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	189
Miller, Bari B...............................Wisconsin
Moran, Joseph A................................Indiana
Meyer, Edward J...................................Ohio
Marquez, Miguel J..........'....................  Cuba
Martinez, Hermilo...............................Mexico
Manzanares, Manuel P.........................New	Mexico
Madden, Ralph C..............................^Illinois
Medley, Ben B...........................     .Kentucky
Murphy, John P.................................Indiana
Moore, EEarry..................................Indiana
Moran, John B.................................Michigan
Maguire, Thomas 0.............................Illinois
Murphy, Henry T..........................Massachusetts
Murphy, Clement J.................................Iowa
Maroney, Joseph..............................  New	York
Midkiff, Harry D..............................Illinois
Mendel, Edward................................Illinois
Miller, Ralph D..............................Minnesota
Mooney, Edward D.............................Minnesota
Morrison, Joseph B................................Iowa
Morrison, Dennis A. ..............................Iowa
Meenach, Harry W............................Washington
Martin, James W............................   Illinois
Munson, Porter W..............................Missouri
Marquez, Rafael......................................Mexico
Miller, Hugh E.. ...................................... • Ohio
Morrison, Patton.......................................Ohio
Marr, Charles B....................................Illinois
Maginn, Bran cis J.................................Illinois
Maginn, John A.....................................Illinois
Masters, John R....................................Illinois
Marquette, E. Oakleigh..............................Indiana
Moebius, Stanley W..................................Indiana
Manning, John...................................Illinois
Madden, Daniel D................................Illinois
Malloy, Patrick M...................................Iowa
Murphy, William B...............................Illinois
Miller, Adolph S................................Colorado
Miltner, Charles C...............   ’...........Michigan
Mannion, Thomas D.................................Canada
Mathis, Michael A....................................Indiana
Miller, Paul J..................................    Indiana
igo
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MacDonough, Patrick J.....................New York
MacNamara, George J..........................  Ohio
McKeever, Francis H............................Iowa
McCullough, Gilbert F..........................Iowa
McCaffrey, John A......................Pennsylvania
McDonald, Cassius M........................Illinois
McCarty, Wm. H....................... Massachusetts
McDermott, Charters M.....................Wisconsin
McFarland, Alex. W.............................Ohio
McGlew, Henry J.......................Massachusetts
McNerney, Laurence.......................  Illinois
McKeown, Thomas L......................Pennsylvania
McCaffrey, John C..........................Illinois
Mclnerny, John W............................Indiana
McKillip, Thomas C............0............Nebraska
McDonald, Edw’in A............................Texas
McCarthy, Frank A..............................Iowa
McDermott, Fdward W........................Illinois
McDermott, Robert J......................  Illinois
McDermott, George J........................Illinois
McNichol, Daniel...............................Ohio
■ McDermont, Charles T...........................Ohio
McDermont, Chapman H...........................Ohio
McGrath, Fdwin F............................Indiana
McCaffrey, John N...........................Indiana
McFarland, Clarence J..........................Ohio
McCabe, Laurence B.....................Pennsylvania
McKenna, William P....................Massachusetts
McKearney, William A..................;........Ohio
McAleenan, Howard W........................Illinois
McClung, James F............................Indiana
McCormick, Rollin D........................Illinois
McDermont, Horace G.......................•....Ohio
McNeill, Wm. W............................ Illinois
McGinnis, Owen M...........................Illinois
McCauley, Clarence.........................Illinois
McGill, Robert J...........................Michigan
McFadden, Thomas J.........................Illinois
McKechnie, Herbert D...........................Ohio
McShane, Patrick A.........................Illinois
McDonald, John C.......................   .Illinois
McGillis, Grover C...................      Michigan
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	191
McDermott, Charles J...........................Iowa
McCullough, John A.........................Illinois
McElhone, Francis J....................Pennsylvania
McCarthy, J. Gerald........................Illinois
Nyere, George L....................................Iowa
Nieto, Francisco G...............................Mexico
Niedbalski, Stanislaus	W........................Indiana
Nelson, John W.................................Illinois
Nabers, Theodore H.................................Iowa
Niezer, George B ...............................Indiana
Newgass, Win. F ...............................Illinois
Nugent, Frederick G............................Illinois
Nightingale, Donald J..........................Illinois
Norman, Henry A..............................Rhode	Island
0 ’ Connor, Eugene J...............................Iowa
O’Neill, John W...............................Wisconsin
O’Neill, John C................................Illinois
O’Connor, John J................................Indiana
• O’Connor, Daniel J............................Illinois
O’Brien, John F...............................’.Indiana
O’Brien, Karl P............................Pennsylvania
Oberle, Martin...................................  Ohio
Opfergelt, Edward A............................Illinois
O’Connell, Robert M..........................  Illinois
O’Reilly, Joseph P.................................Ohio
O ’ Gorman, Samuel........................Massachusetts
O’Connell, Ambrose A...............................Iowa
O’Malley, Carl G...................................Ohio
O’Connor, Charles B............................New	York
O’Donnell, Aloysius J......................Pennsylvania
O’Connor, Augustine I..........................Illinois
O’Mara, J. Thomas..............................Illinois
O’Eeary, James.................................Illinois
Ohmer, Harry B.....................................Ohio
O’Neill, Daniel...............................Wisconsin
O’Connor, Maurice...............................Indiana
O’Flynn, Edward F...............................Montana
O’Shea, John P..................................Indiana
O’Brien, Simon A..............................New York
O’Phelan, John I..............................Minnesota
192
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
O’Shea, Dennis A.......................................Illinois
O’Shea, William J.......................................Indiana
O’Neil, Thomas........................................ Illinois
Pino, Arturo...................................Peru,	S. A.
Proctor, Robert B.................................Indiana
Piper, Herman C. R..............................Minnesota
Patterson, Harry D...........................Pennsylvania
Pohlman, John P...................................Indiana
Page, Austin W...............................Pennsylvania
Paullin, Telford C...............................Illinois
Perez, Juan P.....................................   Cuba
Parker, John J...................................Virginia
Parish, Varnum A.................................Illinois
Pryor, Francis J.................................Colorado
Pardo, Pedro.......................................Mexico
Peterman, Franklin H..........................  Louisiana
Poulin, Joseph B..................................Indiana
Paine, Robert E.....................................Texas
Powell, Daniel T.............,...............*....Illinois
Probst, Rudolph O.................................Indiana-
Powell, William P.................................Illinois
Popp, Thomas J...............................Pennsylvania
Phillips, B. Wayne................................Wyoming
Peil, Bdwafd F................................. Wisconsin
Parker, George H.................................Michigan
Prada, Jose V....................................  Mexico
Pratt, R. BHwood.................................Illinois
Perce, William B.................................Illinois
Power, Raymond A.................................Illinois
Powilajko, Stephen S..............................Indiana
Powell, John.....................................Michigan
Quinlan, John M...............................Illinois
Quinn, John D.............................Pennsylvania
Quinlan, Thomas A.............................Illinois
Quackenbush, Hiram A..........................Kentucky
Quinn, John C.............................Pennsylvania
Quinlan, Paul C...............................Illinois
Quinlan, Joseph A.............................Illinois
Reulbach, Bdward M...........................Missouri
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
3 93
Rayneri, Virgilio N...
Rayneri, Eugenio P...
Roberts, Harry N.....
Riordan, Stephen F..
Rothwell, Harry P....
Rush, Charles E......
Record, James R......
Reed, Penrose........
P.oach, Norman E.....
Roach, Joseph A......
Ryan, Dennis W.......
Rocheford, Ector R...
Ryan, Thomas S.......
Reitz, Clarence A....
Riney, Walter J......
Reisner, Benjamin A..
Rubio, Marcellino G..
Rubio, Manuel G......
Robinson, Everett S..
Roach, John W........
Rothwell, Emil J.....
Rempe, George A......
Rousseau, Edward E..
Rempe, Eester W......
Roe, Benjamin........
Roberts, Thomas B...
Roberts, Godfrey M...
Ryan, Wm. P..........
Robinson, Eeo C......
Robinson, Wm; F....
Rush, Eugene A.......
Raab, Eeo A..........
Roy, Charles J.......
Riordan, Michael J....
Rozewicz, Anthony V
Roque, Warren E • • • • ■
Reinke, Harry........
Stephan, Anton C..
Stanford, Grattan T
Shea, John F........
Shea, Michael J....
..... Cuba
.....Cuba
.Illinois
.Illinois
.. ..Wyoming
.Indiana
..... Texas
.Wyoming
.Ohio
.Ohio
....Utah"
, .... Nebraska
.Illinois
....Indiana
.... Wisconsin
.Texas
.Cuba
.Cuba
.Nebraska
.Iowa
.... Wyoming
.Illinois
.Nebraska
.Illinois
.Illinois
South Dakota
•South Dakota
.Illinois
.South Dakota
,... Mississippi
.Illinois
....Indiana
....^Indiana
....Michigan
.....Indiana
. Rhode Island
.....Michigan
......Illinois
.......Kansas
. Massachusetts
. Massachusetts
194
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME,
Sherry, James J.......
Salmon, Louis J.......
Stevens, Walter A......
Shaughnessy, Francis J
Steiner, Arthur F......
Shanahan, Dennis.......
Sharkey, Philip P......
Schwarz, Henry J.......
Sarinana, Federico.....
Sanz, Patricio.........
Sanz, Manuel.............
Stopper, Anthony J....
Schwab, Edward H....
Silver, Nathan.........
Smith, Arthur C................
Sheuerman, Henry S...
Santacruz, Rafael F....
Small, Delavan A.......
Schutz, Carl T.........
Strauss, Fred H, A.....
Scales, John J.........
Spenglev, Walter J.....
Streckfus, Joseph L - •. •
Scott, Robert E........
Steinkohl, Louis J.....
Sheehan, Clarence J.. •.
Shields, Fred P........
Simon, Arturo..........
Seidel, Frederick W....
Shenk, Rober^R.........
Selden, Herman B.......
Spengler, Herbert A...
Sabin, Franklin E......
Sheilbelhut, Leo.......
Symonds, Edward L •..
Shannon, Gerald A......
Sorg, Claude A.........
Schiff, Irvin M..............
Schneider, Harold C...
Schick/ Francis........
Srnall, Emmett R....-..
Spengler, Francis E...
.....New York
.....New York
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Michigan
.....Kentucky
.. Pennsylvania
. .South Dakota
.Mexico
.Mexico
.....Mexico
.. Pennsylvania
. .Pennsylvania
.Illinois
.Illinois
...... .Iowa
.Mexico
.....Kansas
.....Minnesota
.....Illinois
.....New York
.....Illinois
.Illinois
.. .Washington
.Indiana
.....Illinois
. .Pennsylvania
.....Cuba
.....Indiana
.....Ohio
.Michigan
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
... Washington
.Ohio
........Illinois
........ Illinoi-:
........Indiana
.Illinois
........Illinois
a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
195
Smith, Walter L.............................West	Virginia
Smith, F. Dickason.............................Illinois
Symonds, Henry R...............................Illinois
Shannon, Clarence W.........................Washington
Sullivan, Robert B:............................Illinois
Sullivan, George C.............................Illinois
Scott, Albert F................................Illinois
Swantz, Thomas J................................Montana
Sheehan, John W................................Illinois
Sheedy, Joseph A.................................Canada
Steiner, William A..............................New	York
Szamecki, Stanislaus P..........................Indiana
Sobolewski, Wenceslaus C.......................Illinois
Trevino, Ricardo A...............................Mexico
Torney, Francis J............................California
Tong, Charles B.................................Indiana
Toba, Francisco................................. Mexico
Tobin, Thomas..............................South	Dakota
Talcott, Rodney D.............................  Indiana
Taprell, Percy E...............................Illinois
Tyler, CarlB.....................................  Ohio
Tufts, Irvin S................................ Michigan
Tufts, John R..................................Michigan
Toner, Thomas T................................Minnesota	'
Tracey, J. Raymond............................Wisconsin
Toth, Joseph M..................................Indiana
Tracy, Charles R.... ..........................Michigan
Uhrich, Maurus J.............................Washington
Ulrich, Jacob F. S..............................Indiana
Upman, Walter F................................Illinois
Villanueva, Santiago F...........................Mexico
Voigt, John R...................................Indiana
Villanueva, Enis S...................................Mexico	•
Vanderhoof, Edward F..........................  Indiana
Vermeulen, Frederic W..........................Michigan
Villanueva, Augustin P...........................Mexico
Von Phul, Carol A...........................   Missouri
Veazey, Oscar E.......'.............-......West Virginia	,
Van Rie, Eeo P..................................Indiana
[96
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Wadden, John W
Welch, Thomas J..
Whalen, Walter E
Winter, Wm. J...
Winter, August A.
Winter, Charles A.
Wagner, Louis E..
Wooster, Henry F.
White, G. Roy....
South Dakota
......Illinois
......Utah
Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania
......Illinois
......Indiana
.....Illinois
White, Benjamin H.........................Illinois
Waldorf, Rufus W..............................Illinois
Wagner, Lucius M...............................Indiana
Worden, John..................................New	York
Wilson, Richard B..............................Illinois
Welch, Clarence J..................................Michigan
Wallerstein, Milton H..............................Kentucky
Welsh, Leo J.......................................Illinois
Weisse, Paul A.....................................Illinois
Wunsch, Edmund....................................Minnesota
White, Wm. A...................................Indiana
Whiteley, Harry W...................................Illinois
Whiteley, Thomas D..................................Illinois
Whiteley, John E....................................	..Illinois
Warren, Homer S.....................................Illinois
Woods, James A.......................,...........Colorado
Weist, John L....................................Illinois
Wroble, John W....................................Indiana
Weltzer, Laurence E...........................  .Illinois
Wenninger, Francis J...............................Indiana	•
Wimberg, William M...................................Ohio
Walsh, Francis M.................................Illinois
Yrisarri Eduardo C.....................................Mexico
Yrisarri, Jacobo J......................................  Mexico
Zolper, Harry W...................................Illinois
Zang, Adolph J..............................  Pennsylvania
Ziebold, George C.................................Illinois
Zink, Frank A......................................   Ohio
-3
0
«
Sixtieth
Annual Commencemet*
<3
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
199
CONFERRINGJOF DEGREES.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
William D. Furry, A. B., 1900, Ashland, Ohio.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on
Francis Xavier Ackerman, LaFayette, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Joseph Henry Burke, Richwood, Wisconsin.
Earnest Aloysius Davis, South Bend, Indiana.
Daniel Cornelius Dillon, Kane, Pennsylvania.
Gallitzin Aloysius Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Pa.
William Keegan Gardiner, Brooklyn, New York.
George Bdward Gormley, Fort Atkinson, Wisconsin.
Frnest Bdward Reo Hammer, New York City.
Thomas Patrick Irving, Watertown, Wisconsin.
Byron Vincent Kanaley, Weedsport, New York.
George Joseph MacNamara, Covington, Kentucky.
John Michael Quinlan, Rockford, Illinois.
Stephen Francis Riordan, Chicago, Illinois.
Michael John Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
William Muller Wimberg, Cincinnati, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Louis John Carey, Lapeer, Michigan.
Walter Matthew Daly, Madison, South Dakota.
Maurice Francis Griffin, Toledo, Ohio.
Thomas Daniel Lyons, Carthage, South Dakota.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on
Louis Marius Fetherston, What Cheer, Iowa.
Frederick Joseph Kasper, Mvanston, Illinois.
Grattan Thomas Stanford, Independence, Kansas.
200	UNIVERSITY 0E NOTRE^DAME.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
Thomas Linus Keith Donnelly, Bay City, Michigan.
Benjamin Ruperto Enriquez, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Charles Porterfield Kahler, Baltimore, Maryland.
Ignacio Francis Lomelin, Guadalajara, Mexico.
John Duggan Quinn, Scranton, Pennsylvania. 0
Arthur Edmund Steiner, Monroe, Michigan.
Anton Charles Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois.
Harry William Zolper, Mendota, Illinois.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineer-
ing was conferred on
Lawrence Marshall Antoine, Somonauk, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
Merred on
<9
Leo Garnett Dwan, Chicago, Illinois.	.
Gilbert Francis McCullough,’ Davenport, Iowa.
Thomas Jobson Swantz, South Bend, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engi-
neering was conferred on
Eugenio P. Rayneri y Piedra, Havana, Cuba.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Francis Joseph Conboy, Wanatah, Indiana.
Francis Flanders Duquette, Mendon, Michigan.
Nicholas Raymond Furlong, Fairplay, Wisconsin.
Harry G. Hogan, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Frank John Lonergan, Polo, Illinois.
Joseph John Meyers, Carroll, Iowa.
Francis Hugh McKeever,* Ireton, Iowa. '
George Louis Nyere, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Eugene Joseph O’Connor, Oelwein, Iowa.
John Ireland O’Phelan, Graceville, Minnesota.
Robert Emmet Proctor, Elkhart, Indiana.
Thomas Ambrose Quinlan, Chicago, Illinois.
Thomas Anthony Toner, Barry, Minnesota.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
201
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on ”
James Michael Casey, South Bend, Indiana.
Ladislaus Alexander Kolupa, South Bend, Indiana.
Albert Anthony Munsch, Allegheny City, Pennsylvania.
Francis Xavier Munsch, Allegheny City, Pennsylvania.
Louis Jacob Steinkohl, South Bend, Indiana.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Juan A. Garcia, Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Howard C. Carey, Utica, Illinois. .
John J. Condon, Bloomington, Illinois.
John C Horn, Valparaiso, Indiana.
Thomas J. Jones, Anderson, Indiana.
James T. Jordan, Wapella, Illinois.
Charles J. McDermott, DeWitt, Iowa.
B. Joachim, Notre Dame, Indiana.
B. Wenceslaus, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Robert H. Goeke, Minster, Ohio.
Leroy J. Keach, Indianapolis, Indiana.
John H. Dowling, Lawrenceburg, Kentucky.
George W. Kreer, Chicago, Illinois.
B. Jerome, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Francis J. Pryor, Pueblo, Colorado.
Soj	tMversity or notrR dame.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan,
of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Course, senior year, was
, awarded to
Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall having
the best record for the scholastic year was
awarded to
Franklin H. Peterman, Markville, Louisiana.
The Meehan Gold Medal, for English Essays, presented
by Mrs. James Meehan, Covington, Kentucky,
was awarded to
Thomas P. Irving, Watertown, Wisconsin.
The Breen Gold Medal, for Oratory, donated by the Hon.
William P. Breen, EL. D., ’02 of Fort Wayne,
was awarded to
Maurice F. Griffin, Toledo, Ohio.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal for Chris-
tian Doctrine in Sorin Hall, was awarded to
Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Pennsylvania.
The Ellsworth G Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
A. S. Hughes, Denver, Colorado, for the best
record in Mathematics (Civil Engineering Course)
was awarded to
Benjamin R. Enriquez, Chihuahua, Mexico.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
A, was awarded to
Harold P. Fisher, Paducah, Kentucky.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	2O3
The - Quinn Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral
Course B, 1st Division, presented by Rev. John
J. Quinn, A. B., ’83, Pastor, St. John’s Church,
Peoria, Illinois, was awarded to
Raymond J. Burns, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine
in Moral Course B, 2d Division, presented by the
Reverend M. J. Fitzsimmons, Rector of Holy
Name Cathedral, of Chicago, ‘was awarded to
Bvaristo J. Batlle, Manila, P. I.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 3d Division, was awarded to
Raymond G. Conron, Danville, Illinois.
The Mooney Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll-
Hall, First Course, presented by Rev. Nathan J.
Mooney, ’77, Rector of St. Columbkille’s Church,
Chicago, was awarded to
Daniel T. Kelly, Bast Ras Vegas, New Mexico.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 4th Division,u was awarded to
James D. Jordan, Scranton, Pennsylvania.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, Second Course, presented by the Rev. F. J.
Barry, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Chicago,
was awarded to
John McD. Fox, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in Senior
Class, Commercial Course, was awarded to
George W. Kreer, Chicago, Illinois.
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold, presented in memory of
the late Hon. Clement Studebaker, South Bend,
Indiana, for debating work, was awarded as
follows:
204	UNIVERSITY 0E NOTRE DAME.
Forty Doeears to Maurice F. Griffin, Toledo, Ohio.
Twenty Doeears to Thomas D. Lyons, Madison,
South Dakota.
* Fifteen Doeears to Byron V. Kanaley, Weeds-
port, N. Y.
The Barry Elocution Medal in the Collegiate Department,
donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry of Chicago, was
awarded to
Bernard S. FaHey, Rome, Georgia.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in the Preparatory Course
was awarded to
Charles H. Joy, Chicago, Illinois.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
. The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
Joseph Henry Symonds, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Homer S. Warren, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Penmanship was
awarded to
Clarence J. Kelly, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Bdward J. Connolly, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded to
John L. Weist, Salt Lake City, Utah.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to
Robert J. McGill, Detroit, Mich.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	205
The Abercrombie Gold Medal for General Excellence was
' awarded to
Joseph Henry Symonds, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to
Card) A. Von Phul, St. I/mis, Missouri.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Composition was
awarded to
Joseph V. Prada, Celaya, Mexico.

206
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby and Brown-
son Halls who have attained an average of at least 90 per cent, for
scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year. The first
honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a diploma ; that
awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This
medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Evaristo R. Batlie, Manila, P. I.
Clarence J. Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois (renewal).
Walter M. Daly, Madison, South Dakota (renewal).
Benjamin R. Enriquez, Chihuahua, Mexico (renewal).
Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Pennsylvania
(renewal).
• Joseph J. Meyers, Carroll, Iowa.
John Duggan Quinn, Scranton, Pennsylvania (renewal).
Michael J. Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts (renewal).
Anton C. Stephan, Scales Mound, Illinois (renewal).
Arthur E. Steiner, Monroe, Michigan (renewal).
Harry W. Zolper, Mendota, Illinois (renewal).
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Gold Medal was awarded to
James R. Record, Paris, Texas (renewal).
Henry M. Kemper, Chicago, Illinois.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals—none awarded this year.
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
. Francis J. Conboy, Wanatah, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	207
Thomas D. Lyons, Madison, South Dakota.
Robert B. Proctor, Blkhart, Indiana.
Ricardo A. Trevino, Monterey, Mexico.
John R. Voigt, Jeffersonville, Indiana.
CORBY HALL*
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Francis J. Lonergan, Polo, Illinois:
Telford C. Paullin, Hyland Park, Illinois.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Raymond F. Conron, Danville, Illinois.
Thomas O. Maguire, South Chicago, Illinois.
Bdwin A. McDonald, Houston, Texas.
Varnum A. Parish, Momence, Illinois.
John J. Scales, Westchester, New York.
208
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
DEPORTMENT PRIZE MEDALS
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable. ]
CARROLL HALL
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Cebert J.
Baillargeon, Vincent J. Brown, Augustin P. Villanueva
(renewal), Mortimer B. Carraher, John McD. Box, Daniel
T. Kelly (renewal), Edward L. Mooney, Clarence J.
McParland (renewal), Charles T. McDermont (renewal),
Chas. B. O’Connor, Aloysius J. O’Donnell, William P.
Powell, Everett S. Robinson, Edward L. Rousseau
(renewal), Gerald A. Shannon (renewal), Paul A.
Weisse.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Brands
Schick, Juan Gallart, Emil Erossard, Paul C. Quinlan,
Jacob J. Yrisarri, Walter B. Upman, Rambert J. Weist,
Lester W. Rempe, Edward Yrisarri, E. Leon Knight.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment has given general satisfaction.]
CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment — none awarded this
year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	209
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Joseph
A. Brennan, Janies A. Woods, William E. Cotter, Walter
L. Smith, Cassius H. Connolly, Francis J. Kroth.
210
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY,
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no need
of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without endow-
ment, and its work is seriously hampered because it has
no resources except the fees of students. There are two
scholarships and the interest from these foundations is used
in educating and boarding two students.
There were in 1901 1,452 Catholic students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and very
many of these will lose their faith, and all will be weak-
ened in that faith, because our people look upon collegiate
institutions as the property of private corporations which
are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys that can not
pay the expense of education, and who therefore are
obliged to go to non-Catholic colleges to the detriment of
their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and board
a student as long as the University exists. As one bursar
is graduated another can take his place. The founder of
the scholarship, of course, always has the privilege of
appointing the student.	.
We lack money for a library building, and for two more
dwelling - halls like Sorin Hall.
Foundations for scholarships are also a pressing need.
There is no Library fund for the purchase of new books.
The names of benefactors will be given to all foundations.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
211
BEQUESTS SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS FORM:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC.
I give, devise and bequeath to the UNIVERSITY
OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC, an institution incor-
porated under the laws of the State of Indiana, and’
located at Notre Dame, Indiana.............
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	213
INDEX.
Admission to:
Collegiate Courses, the............................. 94
Conditional Admission.............................   95
Department of Arts and Tetters...................... 98
Department of Science...............................104
Department of Architecture..........................127
Department of Civil Engineering.....................116
Department of Electrical Engineering................122
Department of Taw...................................131
Department of Mechanical Engineering................119
Department of Pharmacy...............................no
Advanced Standing, admission to......................... 95
Anatomy, Courses in..................................... 85
Architecture, Courses in................................ 67
Scheme of Courses...................................128
Astronomy, Course in.................................... 60
ATHLETICS,.............................................. 25
Faculty Board in Athletics.......................... 26
Bacteriology, Course in................................  87
Biology, Courses in..................................... 84
Scheme of Courses...................................109
Taboratory Fees.........................105,	108, in, 114
Board oe Trustees........................................ 4
Board and Tuition.....................................28,	179
Botany, Courses in...................................... 81
Buildings, Description of............................... 12
Calendar, University.................................     3
Chemistry, Courses in................................... 76
Civil Engineering, Courses in (See Mathematics, Pure and
Applied)
Admission to........................................114
Scheme of Courses...................................118
College, The
Admission to.......................................  95
Commencement Honors.................................199
Commercial Course...................................  155
214
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
DEGREES:	5
Bach, of Arts.......................................100
Bach, of Laws.......................................140
Bach, of Letters...................................  101	1
Bach, of Philosophy...............................  102
Master of Letters in Journalism.....................103
Bach, of Science....................................107
Bach, of Science in Biology.........................109
Bach, of Science in Architecture....................128
Civil Engineer....................................  118
Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering.......124
Mechanical Engineer.................................121
Pharmaceutical Chemist..............................112
Graduate in Pharmacy................................112
Directory...............................................  2
Discipline.............................................. 24
Drawing :
Artistic Drawing, Courses in........................ 71
Mechanical Drawing, Courses in...................... 73
Economics, Courses in..................................  46
Electrical Engineering, Courses in...................... 65
Admission to........................................122
Scheme of Courses...................................124
Laboratory Epes...................................  114
Electricity, Short Course in Applied:
Admission to.........................................125
Scheme of Courses...................................126
Laboratory Fees......................................114
Elocution, Courses in................................... 43
English, Courses in.....................................   41
Entrance Requirements, (See Admission.)
Ethics, Courses in...................................... 32
Evidences of Christianity............................... 94
Expenses................................................ 28
Executive Oeeicers....................................... 5
Fees.................................................... 28
French, Courses in....................................... 48	■
Old French.......................................... 50
General Science
Admission to.........................................104
Scheme of Courses...................................107
Geology, Courses in....................................  87
£
UNIVERSITY	OF NOTRE DAME.	215
German, Courses in...................................... 51
Graduation Eees......................................... 29
Greek, Courses in....................................... 35
Historical Sketch of the University..................... 12
History and Economics, Courses in....................... 45
Admission to.......................................  98
Scheme of Courses...................................102
Italian..................................................50
Journalism, Courses in..................................103
Admission to........................................103
Scheme of Courses...................................103
Laboratory Eees..............................105,	108, m, 114
Latin, Courses in........................................39
. Law....................................................129
Lodging, Board and.......................................28
Logic, Course in........................................ 31
Mathematics, Pure, Courses in............................51
’ Mathematics, Applied, Courses in........................ 54
Mechanical Engineering, Courses in. °................... 61
Admission to........................................113
Scheme of Courses...................................121
Laboratory Eees.....................................114
’ Medals and Honors...................................... 27
Metaphysics, Course in.................................. 31
Microscopy, Courses in...................................84
Minim Department........................................175
Eees................................................179
Museum...................................................18
Music, Course in......................................   90
Eees................................................ 29
Painting:
Eee................................................. 29
Pharmacy, Courses in.....................................88
Admission to.........................................no
Scheme of Courses.................................. 112
Fees.................................................in
Philosophy, Course in....................................31
Physics, Courses in..................................... 80
Physiology, Courses in...................................86
Political Science, Course in............................ 46
Portuguese, Course in................................... 50
Preparatory School......................................159
2l6
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Professors and Instructors, Roster of............
Provencal, Courses in............................
Psychology, Courses in...........................
Romance Language, Courses in......................
Science, Courses in General, (See General Science).
Shop Work.........................................
7, 130
...50
...31
Spanish, Courses in..........
Students, Summary of........
Thesis.......................
Title, Legal, of the University
Trustees, Board of..........
Tuition, (See Expenses)......
Zoology, Courses in..........
64
49
180 ”
106, 108, 111, 117, 120, 123
II
4
28
82
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Is a 28-page paper devoted to the interests of the students
and published by them every week during term time. The
journal is in the hands of a student board of editors and
students do all the writing for it. Work done for. The
Scholastic is regarded as supplementary to the theoretical
work of the English courses; hence the character of the
articles,—essays on literary subjects, biographical sketches,
short stories, exercises in verse, book - reviews, etc. As
contributors are expected to prepare their own copy for
the press and to do their own proof - reading, they gain no
small amount of practical experience.
Although The Scholastic is published chiefly for the sake
of the students attending the University, their parents and
all former students will see things of interest in its columns.
Reports of the popular lecture course and of events hap-
pening at Notre Dame and other colleges, personal notices,
athletic notes, reviews of the work done in the debating
and other classes, find place in the paper and keep parents
and others informed about matters that concern their
children and friends.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50 per
annum,
"x
Address all communications to
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana*
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS.
(One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.)
Beautifully and healthfully located on an eminence overlooking
the banks of the St. Joseph River. Enjoys a national patronage.
All the branches of a thorough English, Classical, Scientific and Com-
mercial Course with Modern Languages taught. On completion of
the College Course students are entitled to the Degree of A. B.. Litt.
B., or B. S.
THE PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT. Here pupils are
trained in the Regular, Special and College Preparatory Courses.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT provides for the tender care, and
special instruction of children under the age of twelve years.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC is conducted on the plan
of the best Classical Conservatories.
THE ART DEPARTMENT is modeled after the leading Art
Schools in EJurope.
GYMNASIUM with resident director, a graduate of Dr. Sar-
gent’s Normal School of Physical Training, Cambridge, Mass.
Over two hundred acres devoted to walks, and outdoor sports.
The AIM of moral, intellectual and physical training is to prepare
young women for lives of usefulness. The constant growth of the
Academy has necessitated the errection of additional fine buildings
with latest Hygienic equipments. Moderate Cost. New school year
begins September Sth. For catalogue and special information
apply to
THE DIRECTRESS,
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, NOTRE DAME, IND.
1
Sr. Mary’s Academy

It is desired that every Graduate receive a copy of
the Annual Catalogue. The Faculty will therefore con-
sider it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus
changes his address.
On application to the President catalogues will be
sent to all who are interested in the work of the
University.