
ANNOUNCEMENT
OF THE
LAW DEPARTMENT
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
1904-5
ANNOUNCEMENT
OF THE
LAW DEPARTMENT
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
1904-5
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
UNIVERSITY PRESS
LAW FACULTY.
REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D,
Dean of Law Faculty.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Professor of Law.
LUCIUS HUBBARD, LL. D.,
Professor of Law.	■
ARTHUR L. HUBBARD, A. M., LL. B.,
Professor of Law.
ANDREW ANDERSON,
' Professor of Law.
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B.,
Instructor in Law.
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Lecturer on Ethics and Natural Law.
Law Department
OF THE
University of Notre Dame.
The University of Notre Dame has earned a prom-
inent place among the leading educational institutions
of the country. It was incorporated sixty years ago, un-
der the laws of Indiana. Its charter empowers it to
teach all preparatory, collegiate and university branches,
and confer the degrees and honors appropriate to evi-
dence their satisfactory completion. These degrees rep-
resent as high a standard of educational equipment as'
those of any other American university.
The regular attendance of students numbers between
700 and 800. They are distributed among the several
halls of the university, as St. Edward’s, St. Joseph’s, Car-
roll, Brownson, Corby, Sorin and the Seminary. By this
arrangement it has been found practicable to receive and
instruct students of ages varying from early boyhood to
thirty-five or forty years. The attendance is composed
exclusively of males. Though conducted under Catholic
auspicies, yet there is no prohibition or restriction upon
the matriculation and attendance of non-Catholics.
These comprise at times a fifth or more , of the student
body. But the same general rules of discipline regarding
4	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
respectful attention and. proper deportment at religious
services are applicable alike to all.
THE GROUNDS
Immediately tributary to the university comprise ap-
proximately 900 acres. They adjoin the corporate
limits of South Bend on the north and extend almost to
the Michigan boundary. South Bend is a well known
and flourishing city. Its population is about 50,000. It
is the seat of St. Joseph county, 87 miles from Chicago,
and accessible by rail from all parts of the United States.
The city of Niles, on the north, is only 10 miles distant,
and a trolley line from it passes through the university
grounds. In addition to the extensive area of land be-
longing to the university in its immediate vicinity, it
owns and conducts in the neighboring township to the
East a large farm, embracing in meadow, groves and
cultivated fields, nearly 2,000 acres. From it come quite
largely the milk, vegetables and other food supplies re-
quired for use of the students, thus insuring freshness
and wholesomeness in their meat , and drink.
The grounds at Notre Dame are famous for their
beauty and attractiveness. The lakes, groves and dis-
tant rivers; the meadows and cultivated fields; the or-
chards and flower bedecked parks and gardens, combine
to spread out before the appreciative vision a prospect
singularly picturesque, beautiful and charming.
THE UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
The main and ancillary buildings of the univer-
sity, including the various halls, telephone and express
offices, a store and post-office, are about twenty in num-
ber. They are generally of large size, and conform to
LAW DEPARTMENT.	5
the most approved architectural designs and sanitary re-
quirements. Due measurably to this fact, as may be
presumed, the healthfulness of Notre Dame can justly be
considered exceptional. But comparatively few of its
inmates are compelled even in the most trying seasons
to suspend work and have their names entered on the
sick list. For such, however, there is an Infirmary on
the premises, and medical services can there be secured,
together with the care and nursing of highly qualified
and devoted sisters.
The university is situated about two miles north
of the business center of South Bend, and almost a mile
from its nearest suburb. It is impracticable, conse-
quently, for students to board or have their lodgings in
town. It would be too expensive and involve too great
a loss of time to make trips daily between the university
and South Bend. Moreover, it would be inconsistent
with and subversive of
THE RULES OF DISCIPLINE
in force at Notre Dame—rules deemed essential to best re-
sults in educational work and the formation of sturdy and
manly character. These rules contemplate not only close
attention to school duties during the year, but also im-
munity from the distractions and temptations, amuse-
ments and social claims of city life. The regular period
•of the school year is too valuable to be lost to any mark-
ed extent in such trifles.
• The university has long been noted for thoroughness
in work and effectiveness in discipline, as tending to the
utilization of time and the fixing of habits of diligence
and punctuality. A sense of duty is involved in the
maintenance of this reputation. Students are expected’
to be regular in attendance at class and diligent and
6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
prompt in discharging the duties ‘ devolving upon them.
They are expected to take a practical view of educational
work and to bear in mind that the few years devoted to
it are to direct and influence all the subsequent years of
their lives.
All students matriculated at Notre Dame, no matter
for what course, stand primarily on the same footing.
The halls to which they are assigned indicate in a gen-
eral way their respective ages and educational
standing, although the records of entry in the books of
the university are the sources of original and controlling
evidence in the matter. They reside during the academic
year in comfortable quarters within the precincts of the
university; share together food of the same kind in the
refectories; have the same service at meals and in the use
of light and heat, as well as in washing and mending;
sleep some in dormitories and others in private rooms,
according to their standing in scholarship and prelimin-
ary arrangements; study in common, each at his own
desk, whether in the large study halls or private rooms,
and meet for class-work in their respective recitation
. rooms, as called hourly by the signal bells. In short,
they dwell together, meeting for recitation in class, for
their meals in the refectories and for necessary recrea-
tion and healthful exercise in the great gymnasium or
on the campus. Brought thus daily into close compan-
ionship, they become in time ..virtually the same as mem-
bers of one great family, and a feeling of deep, unsel-
fish and life-abiding friendship is often awakened among
kindred spirits.
Everything needed can be had at the university, and
seldom does occasion arise to visit the neighboring town.
■Visits to it are not favored. This is not alone in the
interest of economy and for the avoidance of habits of
■	LAW DEPARTMENT.	7
extravagance and improvidence, but also to guard
against loss of time and possible exposure to temptations.
It is sought under the rules of discipline at Notre Dame
to prohibit or avoid things manifestly tending to under-
mine or make against the growth of moral worth and
manly character. It is almost superfluous to state con-
sequently that drunkenness or immorality is considered
'ground for expulsion and that the use of intoxicating
liquors is strictly prohibited.
The style of living at Notre Dame is simple and
unostentatious. It is favorable to the formation of hab-
* its of thrift and frugality. Distinctions between the rich
and the poor are discountenanced. No line of demar-
cation between them is ever knowingly permitted to be
drawn. The highest standard of excellence is measured
by scholarship and honorable deportment. Those crown-
ed with the brightest laurels of the university are those
who worthily attain to that laudable standard, irrespec-
tive of whether they be rich or poor.
This preliminary sketch may be deemed pertinent,
if not indespensable, before proceeding to deal specifi-
cally with the	’
LAW DEPARTMENT,
for its students are inmates of the university, authorized
to attend any of the collegiate or other classes, subject
to' the rules of discipline prescribed for collegiate stu-
dents and entitled to equal rights and privileges.
In 1869 the law course was established in a modest
way as a separate curriculum during the presidency of
the late Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C. It was re-
organized in 1884 by the late Rev. Thomas E. Walsh,
C. S. C., who was then President of the university. The
present Dean was called from Chicago, where he was
8	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
actively engaged in the practice of law, and placed in
charge of it. The need of making another start or be-
ginning the work anew soon became manifest. Attention 1
was first given to securing text-books and reports suffi-
cient to form the nucleus of a law library. In the fol-
lowing year began a gradual but steady increase in the
number of students. Substantial improvements were
made from time to time and new books added to the
library, as circumstances seemed to warrant. Neverthe-
less, nothing was done in the way of exploitation,
and for several years the course was not even
advertised, for it was feared that in range of
study and equipment it might seem presumptuous to /
invite comparison with the older and larger institutions.
It is well known that these are advertised mainly through
the expressed good will and personal recommendations
of their students and graduates, but Notre Dame lacked
this advantage on account of the comparative paucity
of such heralds and representatives. As time passed,
however, these went forth in yearly increasing number
and proved to be zealous missionaries in their praise of
the work done in the law course. They found additional
assurance of its thoroughness in the almost uniform suc-
cess that attended them in examinations for admission
to the bar in the various states in which they resided or
to which they went for the purpose of establishing new
domiciles. They observed with even greater confidence,
in their work of preparation that graduates of some of the
most noted law schools failed in the same examinations.
They were not unfrequently complimented by judges
and members of the examining boards upon the accur-
acy and resourcefulness of their legal knowledge. The
publicity of such facts, though slowly spreading, has
served to attract here for the study of law a steadily in-
LAW DEPARTMENT.	9
creasing number of industrious and capable young men.
Under the influence largely of the .American Bar
Association, the period now commonly prescribed for
the study of law is three years. This reform was great-
ly needed, and it is gratfying that the response to the
■call for it has been so prompt and general.. It means the
-elimination from the profession of persons unfitted to
, follow or engage in its practice. It means a higher stand-
ard of professional honor and efficiency. Notre Dame
has sought, to keep steady pace with the progress made
in this direction. It aims to do its full share to elevate
to the highest plane practicable the study and practice
of the law. Considerations of public good and safety
so demand, and it endeavors not to be second to any
other institution in meeting the most exacting test of
this salutary requirement. That its work in this respect
has been followed by fruition is shown not only by the
records of its students in examinations, but also by the
fact that many of them immediately afterward enter
•successfully on the practice of the profession, without
previous probation or experience in the offices of other
lawyers.
QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION.
In some law schools the requirements for matricula-
tion are of an order, so high as to be prohibitory upon the
great mass of young men. Students are not received as
-candidates for diplomas unless previously graduated by
-some college of approved standing.	.
They must have received degrees evidencing the
completion of some of the collegiate courses. Were this
rule in general effect, all but a favored few would be shut
cut of the legal profession. The institutions in which
it obtains may judge for themselves as to its operation.
10	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
It may be assumed, however, that it has proved satisfac-
tory to them, for otherwise it would probably have been
modified or discontinued. In fact, it is hardly open to
question that, generally speaking, a student whose mind
has been trained and disciplined by years of study in a
college is better qualified to undertake the study of law,
perceive its relations to human affairs, fathom its myste-
ries and solve its problems, than one who has not had -
that advantage. And yet a fair education and hard work,
together with a bright mind, or natural endowments
above the average, may enable the latter to do as well
in the battle of life as his more favored brother, if not
actually to outstrip him. The instances that might be
cited in proof are so numerous as to leave the question no
longer debatable. In view of this fact, not to mention a
sense of duty in the matter, Notre Dame favors for its
own guidance a rule more liberal than that which ex-
cludes all but college graduates from the study of law.
It is not disposed to close its doors in the face of honest
worth and promising manhood, even though the gener-
al education of the applicant brings him only to the
threshold of the collegiate, courses. There are many ca-
pable and even gifted young men whose duties have been
so onerous and means so circumscribed on account pos-
sibly of absorbing cares and heavy expenses in provid-
ing for parents or brothers and sisters in periods of sick-
ness and distress that they could not devote the time nor
make the outlay requisite for acquiring a collegiate edu-
cation. Nevertheless, some of these are well educated
along particular lines. They acquired necessarily a fair
education in the line of their work or incidentally to it.
This is true of those working in printing offices, commer-
cial houses, trade establishments and offices of insurance,
real estate and law firms, as well as those who burned
LAW DEPARTMENT.	II
the midnight oil in study. It seems to be only fair and
in consonance with a just sense of duty to allow credit
for learning acquired in this way, and especially so when
it appears to be equal in accuracy and range to that ac-
quired in the corresponding branches of an academic
course. Such persons ought to be able to finish in a com-
paratively short time at Notre Dame studies of the pre-
paratory or high school grade in which they may be de-
ficient. They could then enter upon the study of law
with happiest results, close attention and the requisite
time being given to it.
It becomes pertinent here to indicate more specifical-
ly the standard of qualifications for the matriculation of
law students at Notre Dame. It is graduation from any
reputable high school or completion of the preparatory
course at this place. This gives collegiate standing to
the student. He is a freshman, so to speak, or entitled to
rank as a first year’s student in collegiate work. No per-
sons of lower grade can be received as regular law stu-
dents and candidates for degrees.
. Students from other law schools are received at any
time and allowed due credit for the work previously
done. They must, however, attend class for at least one
year in order to be entitled to the privileges and honors
of graduation.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice of
the profession or have only been admitted to the bar, as
the case may be, are admitted to the Senior class and en-
titled to the degrees appropriate to their work and stand-
ing at graduation in the following June.
Special students are those who wish to receive in-
struction in the science of the law generally or in some
of its branches without becoming candidates for degrees.

12	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
No particular entry requirement is prescribed for
them, aside from securing the consent of the Prefect of
Studies and being of sufficient age and capacity to un-
derstand and profit by instruction in the law. The reg-
ular students who enter the law course as candidates for
degrees, must be at least 18 years of age, but this rule is
not necessarily applicable to those who pursue special
studies. As an education can hardly be called complete
without at least an elementary knowledge of the law,
the number of special students ought steadily to in-
crease. A knowledge of the law is the bulwark of liberty.
All the relations of life are within the sphere of its
power to destroy, modify or protect.. It points out the
safe path to follow in all human affairs. It warns men
of and saves them from possibly great losses in the con-
tracts incident to their business. It admonishes them
of and guards against possibly heavy damages accruing
from torts or negligence in the management of proper-,
ty or their personal conduct toward others. It accom-
panies and protects them in their travels on land and
sea. Night and day it is over and around their homes
and possessions, assuring them of safety in their abso-
lute rights of life, liberty and property. Moreover, no
other branch of study compares with it in disciplining
the mind, directing the currents of thought, intensify-
ing the powers of analysis and discrimination, and keep-
ing the judgment'in all the affairs of life within the
. boundaries of the practical—or what may be called com-
mon sense, which is the foundation of the common law.
THE COURSE OF STUDY
at Notre Dame covers a period of three academic
years. The academic year begins for all the courses, ear-
ly in..September and closes approximately before the 20th
LAW DEPARTMENT.	13
of June. There is no break in the regular order of work
through the school year, except during the Christmas
holidays, when a vacation of two weeks is allowed, in or-
der that all who wish may visit their homes.
'Students are required to be regular and prompt in
class attendance. Absence is not excused unless in case
of sickness or the intervention of imperative and una-
voidable duties. If continued for an unreasonable time
it deprives the student of credit in the year for the time
lost and entails forfeiture of the right to graduation, un-
less the lapse be satisfactorily repaired by subsequent
study.
Lack of regularity or remissness in the discharge pf
duty is an intolerable evil, disturbing to earnest and in-
dustrious classmates and undoubtedly harmful to the de-
linquent himself, in that it prevents him from forming
a clear and accurate conception in unbroken continuity
of his prescribed work. Breaks and intervals in his
knowledge of the law make as evidently against his thor-
oughness and proficiency as broken cogs make against
the appearance and efficacy of wheels in machinery.
Strictness in the matter rests not alone upon a conscien-
tious sense of duty to the young men themselves, their
parents, the legal profession and the public, but also to
the university, so that its reputation of affording except-
ional opportunities and facilities to become thorough,
practical and proficient in the law may not be impaired
or jeoparded.
There are three regular classes in the law course,
which are distinguished respectively by their years of
study, as First or Elementary, Second or Junior and
Third or Senior. For example, after a year’s work
in the First Class its members are promoted to the Sec-
ond; another year of study in this, and they are.advanc-
14	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ed to the Third, thus becoming Seniors. In the follow-
ing June, or at the end of the third academic year, they
are graduated, receiving the degree of LL. B. This
marks the triumphant finish of the regular course in
law. Realizing, however, that it is a. life study, some
of the more fortunate of the young men may find it
practicable to continue the work for another or fourth
year. In such case they enter and become members of
the Postgraduate Class, and receive on graduation a
year later the degree of LL. M.
Young men find it greatly to their advantage, cir-
cumstances permitting, to study law for the full four
years at a university, where they are-in an atmosphere
stimulating and favorable to work; where wholesome
emulation incites them to call into exercise their dormant
energies and hidden powers; where they enter into the
spirit not only of the law, but also of the different academ-
ic courses, acquiring a helpful knowledge of education-
al work on its broadest lines. Moreover, the day for
studying law in an office or in private has passed. It
seems now to be practically out of the question to ac-
quire a connected and systematic knowledge of this great
science in that obsolescent way. It must be remember-
ed that in many states it is threefold more difficult to
pass successfully an examination for admission to the
bar now than it was when the old system prevailed. In-
deed, one ought to acquire a more general, accurate and
systematic knowledge of the law in three or four years
in a properly equipped and well conducted law school
than in twice that time under the old methods.
Three recitations take place daily for each and all,
the classes during their three ’or four years of study. . .
■ Special exercises likewise are announced from time
to time, as in the, actual preparation of pleadings, the
LAW DEPARTMENT.	15
examination of abstracts of title, the writing of deeds and
leases, the making of wills and other instruments and
the dispatch of such business as is customarily trans-
acted in a well regulated law office. The special work
requires from one to two hours a day throughout the
year and is not less imperative than the regular recita-
tions in the obligation of regularity and punctuality. in
attendance.
The subjects of study in the law course are covered
by text-books, lectures and illustrative cases, as well as
by theses and moot-court work. ■ They are likewise
searchingly reviewed in daily quizzes. The regular re-
citations cover all branches of the law, as here indicat-
ed:
FIRST YEAR.
[Each subject 5 hours a week until finished.]
Blackstone’s and Kent’s Commentaries (Abridged), Robin-
son’s Elements of American Jurisprudence, Reed’s
Rules of Order, or Waples’ Parliamentary Law, Na-
tural Law and Legal Ethics-
Persons and Domestic Relations.
This branch of the law refers to natural persons and their
relations with one another and the state, but more specifically
with the rights, duties, property and interests of husband and
wife' parent and child, guardian and ward, master and ser-
vant, .
The Law of Contracts.
A fundamental and most important branch of the law. It
comprises all transactions involving express or implied agree-
ment in the commercial and business relations of mankind. It
is, the basis of air branches of the law not included in torts
and crimes. It is studied with exceptional thoroughness at
Notre Dame. Among its chief subdivisions are offer and ac-
ceptance, agi-eement and obligation, the essential elements of
contract, statute of frauds, quasi contract, illegality and public
policy, moral obligation and reality of consent, misrepresenta-
tion and mistake, dependent and independent promises, impos-
sibility of performance, conflict of laws, construction and
waiver, conditions and warranties, assignment and discharge.
i6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Torts or Private Wrongs.
A subject of exceptional interest and related in funda-
mental importance to contracts, but differing in being outside
the pale of agreement and within the scope of obligation aris-
ing from injury or damages caused to others by negligent or
wrongful acts, independent of the will. The treatment of the
subject includes a full outline of the substantive and adjective
laws governing it, the line to be drawn in distinguishing Torts
from contracts and crimes, persons liable for torts, negli-
gence and nuisance, libel and slander, wrongs affecting the;
family relations, wrongs affecting possession and property,
remedies and damages.
Property, Real and Personal.
This subject of exceptional interest is at the basis of our
social fabric and civilization. It has the sanction of existing
laws, and upon it rests the superstructure of governments and
nations. In treating of it the origin of property is dwelt upon
and made clear by many illustrations; personalty is viewed
with reference to the matter of acquisition, rights of posses-
sion, mobility and rules of transfer, while realty is viewed
in th-? aspects of its estates and feudal tenures, uses and
trusts, statute of limitations, emblements, fixtures, powers,
covenants, easements, deeds, mortgages, releases, statutory
rules and the rights respectively of landlord and tenant.
Criminal Law or Public Wrongs.
. This is usually the first law that men are compelled for
their common protection to formulate and. execute in the or-
ganization of society and formation of the state. The
degenerate or vicious element is opposed to law
and prone to attack the person and seize the
property of him who has .been industrious and provident. This
condition precedes all positive law and is subsequently mani-
fest in open opposition or schemes to evade its enforcement.
The distinction between the common and the statutory law
of crimes is pointed out, as in the case of mala in se and mala
prohibita. The growth of the criminal law for the protection
of the individual and his property and the security and promo-
tion, of the common welfare is shown with due reference to
existing conditions and tendencies. Instruction on this sub-
ject includes the elements of crime, intention and will ma-
liciously directed, murder and manslaughter, arson and bur-
glary, robbery and larceny, treason and offenses against the
government..
Forensic Medicine or Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology.
This is a very interesting and instructive study. It deals
with the phenomena and signs of death, post-mortem exam-
LAW DEPARTMENT.	1/
inations, personal identity, causes producing violent death, ex-
amination of blood stains, death from asphyxia, electricity,
heat, cold, starvation, etc., feigned diseases, infanticide, idiocy,
insanity, dementia, mania, paresis, poisons, mineral acids,
vegetable and animal irritants, Cerebral neurotics, mal-
practice and medical subjects generally in their relation to
crime.
SECOND YEAR.
[Each subject 5 hours a week until finished.]
Criminal Procedure.
This is the adjective branch of the criminal law and con-
cerns itself with the penalties or remedies for its breach and
the procedure for their enforcement, as conducted in court
and carried into effect by the sheriff. It deals with the ar-
rest of accused persons, preliminary examination, commit-
ment or bail, office of grand jury, the indictment and plead-
ings, motions and evidence trial and verdict, proceedings and
habeas corpus.
Corporations—Those of a Private and Public or Municipal!
Character.
The line of distinction between these two great classes
of corporations is well marked, and they are treated separ-
ately. Under the system of study at Notre Dame, however,
it is sought to concentrate the attention upon each branch
of the law until it is finished and has taken deep root in the
mind. It is considered more fruitful of satisfactory and
abiding results to pursue this course than to follow that of
some other institutions and deal with it at widely separated
intervals, allowing other subjects to intervene and lead at
times to confusion and loose habits of thinking. For much
the same reason it is sought here to associate or bring them
together when practicable, so that their mutuality of relation
may be more readily understood and a clearer knowledge of
them acquired. Hence, these two great classes of corpora-
tions are dealt with in consecutive order. As they-are dis-
tinguisned as artificial persons in law it is deemed advisable
to deal with them early in the second year, natural per-
sons thus coming in the first. The subject of private cor-
porations is more extensive than municipal, and it is devel-
oped at greater length. In brief, the subject of corpora-
tions includes their nature and creation, powers and liabili-
ties, acts of promoters and officers, charters and manage-
ment ultra vires acts and dissolution, rights and
remedies^ of creditors; also, nature and powers of public
corporations, leglislative control, municipal securi-
18	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ties, liability on contracts and for torts, city ordinances and
police courts.
Partnership,
Or the association of two or more persons for carrying
on a business and dividing the profits between them. It
is a very close and confidential relation, each member becom-
ing the agent of the other within the usual or apparent scope
of the business. The study of the subject comprises the sev-
eral krnds of partnership, including joint stock companies,
articles of agreement, essential elements of the relation, ex-
press and implied rights and liabilities, actions or suits be-
tween partners as well as between them and third persons,
liabilities and grounds of dissolution.
Agency.
In the widening areas, of commerce and increase of
wealth throughout the world the law of agency has grown
apace. In a broad sense the relation exists where one person
authorizes another to act for him or in his stead. It involves
the general principle, Qui facit per alium facit -per se—He
who acts through another acts himself. In dealing with the
subject it is necessary to study the means of creating the re-
lation of principal and agent, distinction between agent and
servant,- creation of the agency by appointment, ratification,
estoppel or necessity, delegation of authority to sub-agents,
liability of principal for acts of agent, personal lia-
' bility of agent for his acts, powers and liabilities of public
agents, mutual duties and liabilities of principal and agent to
each other and termination of the relation. .
Sales.
■ This important subdivision of the law of contracts is
treated briefly under that head, but on account of the enor-
mous increase of trade and commerce throughout the world
. during the last century it has outgrown the modest ’ compass
of its former .presentation, and several text-books are now de-
voted specially to it. In studying it the elements of con-
tract must be considered primarily, and likewise the statute
of frauds, the distinction between sale and barter or ex-
change is explained, likewise the need of acceptance as well
as delivery in the transfer of things sold, the sale of chattels
specific and not specific, the nature of and distinction be-
tween conditions and warranties, stoppage in transitu, rights
of unpaid sellers against goods sold and transferred, effect
of illegality, payment and performance of contract, and the
like.	.
'	Bailments and Carriers.
This is a very practical branch of the law and necessar-
ily in constant application throughout the country. . Our law
LAW DEPARTMENT.	19
of bailments comes from that great world source of legal
wisdom, the Civil or Roman law. The several kinds of bail-
ments, excluding the mutuum, are as accurately and clearly
class’lied in the Institutes of Justinian as in Coggs vs. Ber-
nard, Ld. Raym. 909, or any of the recently published text-
books. Indeed, we still use the Roman terms in designating
them, as depositum, mandatum, commodatum, pignus and
locatio. Whenever a person commits the care of or loans an
article of property to another, or intrusts its use to him for
hire or with a view to having it carried to some other place,
a bailment is created, such person becoming a bailor and the
recipient a bailee. Carriers. comprise all who make a busi-
ness of carrying goods and passengers for hire, whether they
be railroad or steamboat companies, the owners of ships or
city trucks, draymen or stage coach proprietors. They are
liable as insurers of the goods delivered to them for trans-
portation, and the same is true regarding the responsibility
of innkeepers for the goods and effects of guests intrusted
to their care as bailees. A few of the chief subdivisions are
delivery and acceptance, distinction between bailment and
sale, subjects of bailment, liability of bailee under special
contract, degree of care necessary, denial of bailor’s title es-
topped. a sale if ownership change to bailee, what may be
pledged, interest of pledgee assignable and subject to judicial
sale, payment and redelivery, the hiring of services or chat-
tels, rights and liabilities of warehousemen, forwarding mer-
chants, wharfingers, safe deposit companies, agisters, factors,
innkeepers and carriers.
Insurance—Fire, Life, Accident, Marine.
The origin of insurance is involved in obscurity, al-
though the principle as applied to individual or private
risks was evidently known in ancient times. At any rate it
existed as a definite system as applied to shipping or mari-
time risks during'the Middle Ages. Fire and life insurance
came very slowly into use, and not earlier than the last cen-
tury did it take definite shape undei’ sanction of the law.
Since then insurance companies of many kinds have been
organized, and a person may now insure against loss or in-
jury by accident, dishonesty or negligence on the part of em-
ployes or others, nonpayment of rents or debts, bankruptcy
or insolvency of debtors, failure of title in the purchase of
land or chattels, damage to or death of live stock, destruc-
tion wrought by the elements in extraordinary storms, etc.
It has usually been a lucrative business, and hence the
steady increase in number of companies and subjects of
risk. The. chief subdivisions for study are representations,
warranties, concealment, premium, formation of contract,
policies of various kinds, subject-matter and insurable in-
terest, double and reinsurance, agency, waiver and estoppel,
assignment and change of interest or. title, vacancy and re-
/
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
pairs, notice and proof of loss, right to ■ repair or rebuild,
measure of damages, conditions affecting mortgages and
subrogation.
Common Law Pleading and Practice.
" This subject calls into exercise the student's power of
attention, ability to compare and analyze, accuracy in the re-
lation and sequence of thought, resourcefulness in finding
and taking the correct initiative in the theory to be adopted,
and sk'll. in the logical development and establishment of
the theory, plan and facts in the case. It is impossible to
find a better system of logic and practice in close reasoning
than is afforded by the study of common law pleadings.
Moreover, these pleadings as developed through several hun-
dred years of use and practice may be said to underlie the
code and other forms of pleadings more - recently adopted.
Hence the common law system of pleading and practice is
taken up primarily at Notre Dame. The subdivisions stud-
ied are here indicated in part—Courts and jurisdiction,
capacities and disabilities of parties, threefold divisions of
actions—real, personal and mixed, personal actions ex con-
tractu or on contract, as assumpsit, debt, covenant and ac-
count, personal actions ex delicto or in tort, as case,
tresspass, detinue, replevin and trover; the" summons
or capias to begin . the action, and then the dec-
laration, plea, replication, rejoinder, surrejoinder, rebutter
and surrebutter, also, the demurrer, pleas in abatement or in
bar and the several kinds of motions; likewise, quo war-
ranto, habeas corpus, scire facias, garnishment, attachment
and ejectment in the real, mixed and statutory actions and
forms of procedure, arbitration and award, certiorari, pro-
hibition and mandamus, trial and development of the facts
under the evidence, instructions of the court and verdict of
the jury, grounds of motion for new trial, entry of judgment
on the verdict if motion be refused, and then appeal op claim
of error to the court of review or supreme court.
THIRD YEAR.
[Each subject 5 hours a week until finished.]
Equity Pleading and Practice.
Pleading in courts of equity or chancery is less technical
and complicated than at common law. It is marked by great-
er fullness and clearness of statement. We may divide
equity pleadings into the bill, disclaimer, plea, answer and.
replication; also, the demurrer. The bill, answer and replica-
tion commonly set forth and join issue on the disputed facts
and lead in importance. The bills are classified as original
and not original. Again, they pray, relief or do not pray re-
LAW DEPARTMENT.
21
lief. The original bills praying relief are those claiming
rights of complainant .in opposition to defendant, or the class
of bills customarily in litigation; also, bills of interpleader
and bills of certiorari. The original bills not praying relief
are those to perpetuate testimony, de bene esse and for dis-
covery. The bills not original comprise as a continuation
of those just named the supplemental bill, the bill of re-
vivor and the bill of revivor and supplement. The bills not
original are regularly intended for purposes of cross litiga-
tion, or to controvert, suspend, reverse or carry into execu-
tion a decree of court. They are the cross-bill, the bill of
review, bill to impeach a decree for fraud, bill to suspend or
avoid execution of a decree, 'bill to carry a decree into execu-
tion, bill in nature of bill of review, bill in nature of bill of
revivor, bill in nature of supplemental bill, and supplemental
■ bill in nature of bill of review. The bill is said to contain
nine parts, although seldom having more than five or six. They
are the address, introduction, premises or stating part, con-
federating part, charging part, averment of jurisdiction, in-
terrogating part, prayer for relief and prayer for process. It
is shown in the course of instruction that no complainant can
sue in equity unless the common law fails to afford adequate
relief. If he seek damages he must sue in a common law
court. Nor has equity anything to do with criminal matters.
It has no jury trials. The chief subjects of litigation in
equity are comprised under the general heads accident,
fraud, mistake, specific performance, trusts, injunctions, the
reforming of instruments and infringement of patents and
copyright.
Code Pleading. ’
This system is followed, with statutory modifications, in
about half of the states. And in Great Britain it was adopted
in the main under the Judicature Acts of 1873 and 1875. It
hau its origin in New York, ousting and taking the place of
equity and common law pleadings. The commission to act
in the matter began the work of codification under the Con-
stitution of 1846, But it required several years to complete
the, codes of civil and criminal procedure. It was provided
that there should afterward be no distinction between legal
and equitable remedies and that the common law forms of
. action should be abolished. The new method, was shaped
chiefly in accordance with equity procedure, for which it
was substituted. One form of action was prescribed for all
classes of cases, whether of a legal or equitable nature. The
pleadings were greatly reduced in number and designated
the complaint or petition, answer and reply; also, the de-
murrer. A rule was adopted requiring them to be concise
and framed in language clear, intelligible and easily under-
stood. The new method was regarded as a necessary reform
in the interest of justice and widely adopted, especially in
the newer states. Since then, however, so many statutory
22
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
revisions have been made and so many rulings of the courts
leading to divergences have entered into it that it is now
hardly less free from doubt, uncertainty and technicalities
than the old system. At any rate, it appears to be easier
to determine on the old lines whether one has a good cause
of action. Moreover, the states that retained the common
law pleadings show no disposition now to change to the
code. And the same is true of the Federal courts. It is
comparatively easy for a lawyer familiar with common law
and equity pleadings to accommodate himself to the practice
of a code State, but not so where a lawyer of the latter un-
dertakes to practice under the old system, although the
general principles are the same. At Notre Dame all the or-
dinary systems of pleading are taught, and a diligent stu-
dent ought to be able readily to qualify himself for practice
in any State.
Evidence.
This is an exceedingly important sub ject. It comprises the
body of approved rules under which the relevant facts in issue
on trial may be introduced and submitted for impartial con-
sideration to the court or judge and jury. It is the means
by which proof is established. It is virtually the same under
the code, at common law, in equity and under the criminal
law, as well as before arbitration boards and legislative
bodies. Its fundamental propositions are conclusive, Its
four chief canons are thus stated: 1st, the evidence must
correspond to the allegations and. be confined to the point
in issue; 2d, it is sufficient if the substance.only of the issue
be proved; 3d, the burden of proving a proposition or issue
lies on the party holding the affirmative; 4th, the best evi-
dence of which the case in its nature is susceptible must
always be produced. A thorough knowledge of evidence is
a necessary equipment of a trial lawyer. It is made the
subject of exhaustive study at Notre Dame and applied reg-
ularly in moot-court practice. Mention may be made of a
few of the topics that, with their subdivisions, must be
carefully studied in dealing with it; the grounds of belief,
it is easier and more natural to be truthful than to lie, things
judicially noticed, presumptions of law and of fact, sub-
stance of the" issue and; relevancy, res gestae and burden of
proof, hearsay testimony, matters of public and general in-
terest, dying declarations, declarations against interest, con-
fessions and admissions, evidence excluded on grounds
of public policy, testimony of witneses. their capacity and
impeachment, records and judicial writings, experts and hand-
writing.	:	.
Damages.
As litigation is conducted primarily in common law courts
with a view to the recovery of damages, the subject may
LAW DEPARTMENT.	23
fittingly be taken up after pleadings. The ultimate aim
from the service of the summons to the levy of the writ of ex-
ecution is to secure redress for the wrong alleged. Some
reasonable rule is necessarily sought as a means of estimat-
ing or measuring the damages to be awarded. But little diffi-
culty is encountered where a note, debt or claim for a spe-
cific amount is Involved, for here a case of liquidated dam-
ages, so to speak, is presented, and full compensation is read-
ily decided upon as the proper remedy. Otherwise, how-
ever, where the damages are unliquidated, leaving the meas-
ure or true amount to be ascertained by a careful examin-
ation and analysis of the evidence. Among the chief sub-
divisions for study are the theory and nature of damages,
definition and classification, lawful and unlawful conduct,
nominal and compensatory damages, exemplary or punitive
damages, commercial paper and interest, province of court
and jury, damages for nondelivery, nonacceptance or con-
version of goods, nonpayment and breach of warranty, re-
fusal of carriers to transport goods, injury in -transit, loss
or delay, consequential damages, injuries to passengers, fail-
ure to carry to destination, actions for damages against tel-
egraph companies, ordinary and cipher messages, breach of
marriage promise, damages for death by wrongful act, dam-
ages for wrongs afiecting real property, including waste and
nuisance.
Bills, Notes and Checks, With Suretyship and Guaranty.
The term commercial paper is often used synonymous-
ly with the subject stated. It includes suretyship and guar-
anty in so many of its phases that the order of study indi-
cated has-been found satisfactory. Commercial paper enters
so largely into business transactions throughout the world
that a correct knowledge of it is indispensable. While great
diversity exists in the laws bearing upon it, yet a movement
looking to its codification was inaugurated in 1895, the Amer-
ican Bar Association taking the initiative in suggesting it.
The British Bills of Exchange, Act of 1882, served as
model. Prompt action was taken in the matter and in 1897
as many as 15 States and the District of Columbia had
agreed to the draft submitted to them. Their agreement re-
sulted in the Negotiable Instruments Law. While in no re-
spect radical, yet it reduces to clear terms and pithy para-
graphs the principles of the law merchant. In States that
have not yet adopted it the general law on the subject must
be studied. So at Notre Dame, although The Negotiable
Instruments Law receive due attention. The subdivisions
of Bills, Notes and Checks include in brief, Indorsements—
blank, full, qualified, conditional and restrictive; persons
signing—drawer, maker, surety and guarantor; contractual
liabilities—drawer, drawee, acceptor and indorsers; ac-
ceptor’s estoppels—cannot deny existence or signature of
24	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
drawer, capacity to draw and sufficiency of funds on hand
to pay; indorser’s estoppels—cannot deny genuineness or val-
idity of paper, good title or capacity of prior parties; condi-
tions cf liability of drawer and indorser—due presentment
for acceptance, demand of payment, protest and' notice of
dishonor, but these steps excused by overruling circumstan-
ces, no funds in drawee’s hands, or waiver of protest and no-
tice; to constitute a bona fide holder—good faitn, in hand be
fore maturity, valuable consideration, taken in usual course
of business and without notice of defects; defenses—inca-
pacity cf parties, illegal consideration and want of consent;
certification of check makes bank principal debtor, discharg-
es drawer and gives it the credit of cash. Suretyship signi-
fies the obligation assumed by one who binds himself pri-
marily with the principal for the performance of the under-
taking or payment of the debt into which the principal en-
ters, while a guaranty is an undertaking by a person that if
the one primarily liable to perform a specified obligation
fail to do so he will himself be answerable for the default.
Equity Jurisprudence.
This branch of study is highly important. Moreover, it
is fascinating in the harmony and impressiveness of its prin-
ciples. It comes to us from the Roman law. At an early
day the common law was so harsh and inflexible in its rules
that it often failed in justice or fell short of reaching many
cases. It was anomalous and uncouth in many respects and
adapted only to a rude state of society. The kings were fre-
. quently appealed to for the redress of wrong when the law
failed to afford relief. Some were too young to act in per-
son and others were warlike and comparatively illiterate.
Under such circumstances, they were naturally averse to
take unaided action upon the petitions submitted to them,
and they called to their assistance ecclesiastics held in high
respect and learned in the Roman law, the most advanced
and perfect system of jurisprudence then known to mankind.
The prelates thus chosen by the kings to represent and act
for them on matters anecting conscience, right and justice
were invested successively with the dignity and title of lord
high chancellor. The care of the great seal was intrusted to
them, and they became "keepers of the king’s conscience,”
so that they might act as conscientiously as he should in
the light of their religious training and legal learning. They
were also to act with some measure of royal grace and favor,
as the terms of even present pleadings in equity clearly
show. In this capacity 160 of them served in successive or-
der prior to the reformation in the 16th century. In pass-
ing upon the petitions' referred to the throne and submitted
to them they applied the rules of the Roman law, as refined
by philosophy, together with moral precepts from the Bible,
aiming to redress wrongs and do justice where the common
LAW DEPARTMENT.	25
law failed to afford relief. And little by. little the common
law yielded and accommodated itself on many points to the
principles of equity as thus elucidated and expounded. The
statutes also followed equity in several particulars, super-
seding the common law. Thus equity grew steadily in favor
and became permanently established as a part of our juris-
prudence, Its principles are as distinctive under the code as
where the common law system of pleading obtains. It search-
es the conscience and follows fraud and injustice into all
the ramifications of human affairs. But it cannot be invoked
for aid where the common law is adequate to grant relief.
It is only in cases where a proper remedy cannot be had at
law that equity consents to take jurisdiction. It is now so
well established even/ in Great Britain, notwithstanding
Blackstone’s animadversions, that the Judicature Act
specifically provides that in case of conflict between its pro-
visions and those of the common law the former shall pre-
vail.
Wills, Executors and Administrators.
The word “will” signifies the disposition of property to
take effect after the testator’s death. The word testament
has a like meaning in the Roman law and is accepted as the
proper name in such case in the countries of continental
Europe and South America, whose basic jurisprudence is de-
rived from that source. The word “will” is more commonly
used in the United States, Great Britain and its possessions.
When intended to convey a present estate, though possession
be retained until after death, the instrument of con-
veyance is a deed; but when the interest specified
is not to accrue until after death, the instrument thus dispos-
ing of it is a will. The right to devise and to bequeath prop-
erty is governed wholly by statute. A will is ambulatory and
may be modified or revoked at any time before death, but
once title takes effect under a deed the grantor has no fur-
ther power over it. An executor is a person named in the
• will to represent and follow the intention of the testator in
giving effect to its terms. Not only must the will be pro-
bated in court, but he must qualify there also and receive
letters testamentary before he can lawfully act. An admin-
istrator is one appointed by the court to administer and set-
tle the estate of the deceased. He acts in accordance with the
provisions of the statute and advice of the court. The utili-
ty and practical nature of this extensive branch of .the law-
may be regarded as self-evident, and hence it must be care-
fully and diligently and ought to be exhaustively studied.
Constitutional Law.
_ This is the organic or fundamental law of our country.
The Federal Constitution contains seven articles and 15
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
amendments. It went into effect March 4, 1789, and was the
first of written constitutions. Even to this day the British
constitution is unwritten. The Federal Constitution
is the instrument by virtue of which the Nation-
al Government exists, possesses powers and exercises func-
tions apart from the states. It was adopted by the people,
acting through their states, and sustains comparison to a
charter creating and conferring power upon a corporation.
As it is a grant of power, the government has no more
authority to act beyond its scope than a corporation would
have to act and make contracts in excess of its franchises.
Whatever the corporation might thus do would be ultra vires
and there is no good reason why the same rule should not
apply to the government, with the difference that the act
of the corporation is an" indefensible usurpation and
violation of duty to the state, while the act of the gov-
ernment is a violation of law and duty to the people, not
less than an invasion of their fundamental rights. It is a
dangerous exercise of usurped power in either case and
tends to the subversion of law and the destruction of con-
stitutional government. The courts would have no alterna-
tive but to take substantially this view if only the express
terms of the constitution or charter were in question, but '
the implied powers give rise to doubt and controversy.
These are within the scope of the general provision that all
powers necessary to carry into effect the express powers are
implied 'and may be constitutionally exercised. Within that
broad license, which, without other qualifications, is the
danger point in our organic law, many of the most momen-
tous acts in our history have been accomplished. Possibly
most of the functions of government are exercised within the
sphere of these powers. It must nevertheless be remember-
ed that constitutional government ends at the point where
these powers exceed the purposes and objects of the organic
law; All powers not granted to the Federal Government by
the constitution remain in the people, and the state consti-
tution, which comes nearer to them in their local concerns,
is a limitation upon the exercise of power by the legislature,
and not a grant. Local self-government is an essential feat-
ure of our political system The study of constitutional law
is exceedingly interesting and instructive. Moreover, no
lawyer can fairly be considered great in the profession with-
out having a thorough knowledge of it. A student ought to
learn the constitution by heart. It is sought at Notre Dame
to have young men make exceptionally thorough study of it.
.	International Law.
A knowledge of the law of nations is an indispensable
part of a liberal education. Young men generally, as well as
law students, ought to familiarize themselves with its prin-
ciples. In the diplomatic service and journalism it is partic-
LAW DEPARTMENT.	2/
ularly aidful. It is not a difficult study. In harmony with
the general principles of law and equity, it may be consider-
ed a growth in the same lines. Like the law of the land, it
is conventional and customary, or written and unwritten.
The former consists in treaties, compacts, conferences, the
formal agreements of international congresses, etc. The lat-
ter embodies those usages which the continued habit of na-
tions has sanctioned for their mutual interest and conven-
ience. Customs lawful and innocent are binding on the na-
tions that adopt them, while customs unjust and in violation
of the natural and divine law have no binding force. Inter-
national law has high and unselfish aims in the domain of
conscience and justice. It is .divided into two branches—
public and private. The public branch refers to the law of
nations in the broadest sense, or the rules of conduct govern-
ing their intercourse with one another as sovereign and co-
equal members of one great international family. Those
that widely differ from them in civilizing influences and stand-
ards of morals are not received into the family of nations,
and hence not treated as subjects of international law. The
family of nations includes the countries of Europe and the
colonies established by them throughout the world, now
changed in some instances to sovereign and independent na-
tions more populous and powerful than the mother country.
.The private branch comprises the local, laws of different na-
tions with respect each to its claim of exclusive sovereignty,
control of persons and property within its borders and observ-
ance of good faith in the comity disposing it to apply the
same rules of protection to the people and property of other
countries when traveling or abiding within its jurisdiction
that such countries observe in the treatment of its citizens
and their property under like circumstances. The term con-
flict of laws, instead of private international law, is gener-
ally applied to the class of cases coming under this head.
Of these mention may be made illustratively of marriage and
divorce, birth and legitimacy, contracts and their enforce-
ment, bills and notes, pending suits and judgments, assign-
ments by insolvents, conveyances and intestate estates, etc.
Some of the subdivisions of public international law may also
he mentioned to indicate more clearly the line of demarca-
tion—The several kinds of unions of states, recognition of
belligerency, effect of change of sovereignty upon public and
private tights and obligations, fundamental rights and duties
of states, modes of acquiring territorial property, rivers,
lakes, bays, gulfs, straits and marginal waters, vessels of war
and merchant vessels, public diplomatic agents, right of
asylum and extradition, aliens and their exemption from mili-
tary or naval duty, letters of marque, privateers and pirates,
naturalization and allegiance, mediation, arbitration, and
measures of restraint short of war, causes, pretexts and kinds
of war, effects of war on persons and property, military occu-
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
pation and postliminium, means of carrying on hostilities, en-
emy character and non-hostiie relations, prisoners of war,
peace and neutrality, contraband goods, visit and search,
right of angary, blockade and ship’s papers.
POSTGRADUATE YEAR.
[Each subject 4 hours a week until finished, and 10 hours
weekly for review.]
The State and Federal Courts and Their Respective Func-
tions.
A study of the courts, both of law and equity, is aidful
in the acquisition of a practical knowledge of the more diffi-
cult subject of pleadings. Places lawfully established for the
administration of justice, they are the temples of the law,
and those licensed to serve in them should do so with due
reverence and a solemn sense of responsibility. While thor-
ough instruction is given in respect to the courts and methods
of trial in Great Britain and on the continent of Europe, yet
our own judicial system, both State and Federal, is even
more specifically described and explained, and no doubt or
obscurity regarding it is-permitted to linger in the mind. It
is shown how the courts are divided into many branches,
with distinctive names, when the volume of legal business
is greaL and so demands, as in the larger cities, while a
single court under one name may dispatch as many kinds of
business where the volume is smaller and the jurisdictional
area less populous. The State trial courts and the courts of
review or supreme courts and their functions are fully de-
scribed; while the Federal Supreme Court and subordinate
tribunals, as circuit courts of appeal, circuit courts, district
courts and even commissioners’ courts, receive becoming at-
tention and explanation. The procedure on appeal or writ of
error to the Supreme Court, State and Federal, is likewise
fully elucidated.
The Roman Law.
This great system is the basis of the laws of more than
three-feurths of the civilized nations of the world. Its im-
portance and practical utility can hardly be realized unless it
be studied attentively, earnestly and analytically. Thus
studied, it is discovered to be a rich mine of legal lore. Its
principles seemj to shed light on all the ways to which human
energies are directed in the evolution of affairs. So striking
is-this fact that there need be no hesitation in stating that
it would be almost as helpful to a beginner in the law to
study the Institutes of Justinian as Blackstone’s Commenta-
ries. It may be said indeed that the Commentaries command
LAW DEPARTMENT.	2$
much of their favor through adherence to the plan and use
of the matter of the Institutes and Pandects. Following are
the chief subdivisions comprised in the course of study at No-
tre Dame: Origin and growth of the Roman law, the ancient
jus civile, the XII tables in substance, the Roman family and
gens, populus and plebeians, consular government, laws re-
lating to contracts, succession, property, injuries, etc., juris-
diction of praetor, acquisition of property ex jure gentium,
the imperial system, relation of the senate to the emperor,
the praetor and jurists’ responses, constitutions of the em-
peror, stoic theory of natural law as an element of juris-
: prudence, definitions and maxims, changes wrought in law
and government through the influences of the oriental prov-
inces, authority of the Christian clergy and relation of church
to state, study of the Roman law throughout the civilized
world, common and statutory law, public and private law,
jus personarum—law of persons, jus rerum-—law of things, ob-
ligations—ex contractu and ex delicto, jus actionum—law of
actions or civil remedies and procedure. t
The Law of Admiralty.
■	\ This law originated in the needs of commerce and the
usages of merchants at a time so remote in antiquity as to
be lost in obscurity. The shipping interests and commercial
activities of peoples inhabiting the shores of the Mediterra-
nean sea, such as the Rhodians, Greeks, Egyptians, Phoeni-
cians, Carthaginians and others were developed to a note-
worthy extent at the very dawn of authentic history, and
even when legend and history were so indiscriminately com-
■ mingled that fiction and truth had about equal control of
popular credence. Like other branches of the law, it has
grown and is still growing in the line of its recognized
principles and adapting itself to new or changed conditions
throughout the world. In studying the subject the student
■ deals with the nature and extent of its operation in the .Unit-
ed States, cognizance of cases arising under it in the Feder-
al courts, contracts and wages of seamen, torts and damages,
employment of pilots, seaworthiness and deviation, barratry
and illegal traffic, perils of the sea and proximate cause of
loss, abandonment and valuation, subrogation of insurer,
bottomry and respondentia, supplies and repairs, necessaries
furnished in foreign ports, liens on foreign and domestic
. vessels, towage service and responsibility respectively of
tug and tow in collisions, incidents of service and elements
. of compensation in salvage, contracts of affreightment and
charter parties, bill of lading and its negotiability, har-
bors and docks, piers and bridges, doctrine of imputed and
contributory negligence, rules as to lights and signals -in
fair and foul weather, colors and places of lights and duties
of lookouts for the prevention of collisions, rules to be ob-
served by steamers and sailing vessels in meeting and pass-
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ing each other, wrecks and derelicts, damages for collision,
vessel transferred by bill of sale as personal property, admir-
alty procedure similar to that of Roman law and quite
simple, comprising the libel and process, defence and trial,
evidence, decree and appellate procedure.
Mines, Mining and Water Rights.
This branch of the law demands the diligent and discri-
minating study of those iyho intend to reside in the Rocky
Mountain and Pacific Coast States, although mining for coal,
copper, iron, lead, zinc, etc., not to mention gold and silver,
is carried on here and there in a majority of the States of the
Union. In the far Western States, however, as well as in
Mexico, the British Possessions and Alaska, it is an espec-
ially important, if not a leading branch of industry. In cer-
tain other parts of the world it has been carried on without
material interruption for 20 or 30 centuries. The regalian
ownership ot minerals is generally recognized in monarch-
ical countries, and title resides in the crown, which exacts
a certain percentage of the ores mined or a compensatory tax.
Under the laws of Athens 1-24 was taken by the govern-
ment, while in the countries subject to Rome l-10th had to
be paid. In our own country however, the regalian right
does not exist. The miners of California led in the adoption
of the main principles, of the mining laws of Spain and Mex-
ico, which make the primary right of property depend upon
discovery, location and development. All mineral lands of
the United States are free and open to exploration and oc-
cupation, subject to the local customs and rules of miners.
In other words, the customs of miners constitute a part of the
common law^ as do the customs of merchants, but they yield
to and are supplanted by statutory enactments to the con-
trary. The range of study may best be indicated by the
mention of some of the leading subdivisions: Whence we
derive the mining laws, provisions of the civil and the com-
mon law on the subject, location and necessary annual work
in establishing mining claims, notable differences between
American and foreign mining laws, insufficiency of the act
of 1865 and enactment and provisions of that of 1872, ex-
clusion of Chinese, general outline of State statutes, miners’
rules not judicially noticed and requiring proof, hydraulic
and placer mining, petroleum and natural gas treated as min-
eral and part of the soil, locations on Indian reservations
void, land in forest park reserves not deemed public, known
mines and minerals excepted from agricultural patents, lode
claims not to be over 1,500 feet in length and' 600 feet in
width, individual placer claims not to be over 20
acres and corporation or other such claims not
to exceed. 160 acres, tunnel claims and manner of locating
them, "water rights and kindred easements, mill sites must
be used for mine or mill, percolating and underground waters
LAW DEPARTMENT.	31
distinguished, proceedings to validate claims and secure
patents, legal forms under the mining laws.
Copyright, Patents and Trademarks.
This branch of the law, like the preceding subjects of
mining and admiralty, is somewhat technical and out of the
current of ordinary legal studies. The utility of these sub-
jects depends largely upon the domicile of the learner. Mainly
for that reason they are placed in the postgraduate year, so
that the undergraduate students may be left free to devote
their time to subjects coming more directly wiithin the sphere
of the general laws. Nevertheless, any of these studies may
be taken up, in addition to those of the undergraduate years,
by students who can spare the time to pursue them. While
it is to he hoped that they may be taken in the regular order
by postgraduates, yet they may be chosen optionally and
followed to completion by any students who consider them
necessary in preparing for practice. Postgraduates are, un-
fortunately, never numerous in the law schools of the coun-
try, and hence the subjects indicated are placed in
the year in which they are least likely to be
embarrassing. A copyright secured through the Librarian
of Congress gives authors and publishers the exclusive right
of printing, publishing and selling their literary compositions
or books, or multiplying copies, of what they have written or
printed. A patent protects the inventor of a new and useful
article or improvement in the exclusive right for a certain
period to make and vend the same, A trademark is a word,
mark or device adopted by a manufacturer or vendor to dis-
tinguish his goods from others of the same kind. These mat-
ters are treated briefly, although perhaps fully enough for the
ordinary student, under the head “Personal Property.,>
Trusts and Trustees.
This is an interesting and instructive topic. While dealt
with in brief under the head of “Equity Jurisprudence,” it is
nevertheless too important and practical to be thus summarily
dismissed. A trustee holds a position of great responsibility
and involving confidence in a high degree. His motives and
acts in the discharge of the functions of his trust are im-
partially searched under the rules of equity by the trained
conscience of the chancellor. The course of study com-
prises these subdivisions: Origin and classification of trusts,
trustees and beneficiaries, trust property within and beyond
the jurisdiction, trusts executed and executory, express and
implied trusts, constructive and resulting trusts, na-
ture and characteristics of trust estates, trusts from
powers, trustees ex maleficio, acceptance or disclaimer
and removal of. trustees, perpetuities and accumu-
lations, deposit and conversion of trust funds, investments
' and interest, choses in action- and reduction to possession,
32	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
rights of married women under statutes and separation deeds,
trustees for married women and infants, trustees of freeholds
and dry trusts, life tenant and remainderman, trustees for
payment under will and their powers, assignments for credi-
tors, trusts for charities, cy pres doctrine, trustees to sell,
application of moneys received, rights and remedies of ces-
tui que trust, laches and statute of limitations, compensation
of trustee, pleadings, actions and costs, termination of trust.
Interpretation and Construction of Statutes.
This is a useful and practical branch of the law. It is
almost as aidful to the lawyer in the deeper and more analy-
tic lines of his work as the law of evidence is in jury trials.
It furnishes a key to the interpretation or correct under-
standing of the statutes, gives emphasized significance to the
wording of. contracts and legal instruments, and makes it
easier to construe the reported opinions of the courts, separ-
ating readily the dicta from the necessary substance. The
rules of interpretation came substantially from the Roman
law. They and the maxims were translated into English and
embodied in our jurisprudence. Among the subdivisions
treated under this head may be mentioned: Definition and
object of interpretation, intent to be sought, office of the
judiciary, retrospective operation avoided, mandatory and
directory provisions, popular and technical meaning of words,
casus omissus and equitable construction, strict and liberal
construction, rejection of surplusage, presumption against
unconstitutionality, general terms following special, ex-
press mention and implied exclusion, reddendo singula
singul’s, permissive, mandatory and directory statutes, adopt-
ed and re-enacted statutes, title, preamble and context of
statutes, to be construed as a whole, admissibility of extrin-
sic aids, statutes in pari materia, contemporary con-
struction and usage, construction with reference to the com-
mon law, statutes regulating procedure, construction of
amendments and declaratory acts, the nature . and force of
precedents, construction of statutes of other States, Federal
courts following State laws and decisions in State matters.
Statutes of State of Domicile and Federal Statutes.
It is out of the question to attempt to study the statutes
in general. On some subjects they harmonize in certain
States or groups of States, while on others there is the
widest discordance. No two States can be said to
be exactly alike in . their statutory enactments.
Moreover, the statutes are constantly changing in
accordance with the varying needs or legislative caprices pt
the different States. No lawyer or court takes voluntary
cognizance cf these changes. No court passes the boundaries
of its own State in taking judicial notice of the statutes.
And only its own public statutes and the Federal come with-
LAW DEPARTMENT.	33
in the. rule. The public statute.^ of a neighboring State must
be pleaded and proved as carefully as its own private stat-
utes. The common law presumably exists in other States un-
less the contrary is shown. Neither student nor lawyer is
requircc! to go further than the court in this regard. He is
not bound to know the statutes of any State other than his
own. To attempt to go further would be useless, confusing
and embarrassing. . They are so diverse that it would be
impracticable to undertake to deal with them before a class
compiismg students from different States. Hence the study
of them is left under- advice and supervision very largely to
the students themselves. Each is urged to procure and have
with him for study in the postgraduate year the statutes of
his own State.	,
Powers and Functions of Masters-in-Chancery, Referees, Sher-
iffs, Coroners, Justices of the Peace, United States Com-
missioners, Arbitrators and Receivers.
The course of instruction at Notre Dame comprises a
careful study of the official acts, powers and duties of pub-
lic officers, such as those named. Law students ought to
know the general nature of their duties and how they should
qualify.. It is not a difficult branch of study and ought not
to be neglected.	.
MONTHLY THESES.
In addition to the regular order of exercises indicat-
ed in the preceding pages every student is required to
write month by month a thesis of at least 15 pages of le-
gal cap, or nine such theses in each academic year, These
theses must show not only originality and research, but
also accuracy and creditable scholarship in composition.
When finished from time to time they must be submitted
to the Faculty for examination and approval. Prior to
Commencement in the following June they are returned
to the writers. Thus the time and thought bestowed upon
and the authorities cited in . them can be made available
ln subsequent review, if not as guides in actual practice
to pertinent cases in the reports.
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The theses for the last academic year deal with the
subjects following:
i.	Aliens and Naturalization Laws.
2.	Legal Status of Animals.
3.	Unincorporated or Fraternal Societies. - ■
4.	Judicial and Ministerial Officers.
5.	Taxation and Assessments.
6.	Eminent Domain and Police Powers.
7.	Conflict of Laws.
8.	Extraordinary Legal Remedies.	.
9.	Injunctions, Estoppel and Statute of Limitations.
Following are the topics of theses for the academic
year 1904-05:
1.	Law in Its Origin and Growth, Including Com-
parative Jurisprudence.
2.	The Maxims of Equity and their Application,
ings, Contracts and Conveyancing.
3.	The Study of Forms, with Examples in Plead-
4.	The Law of Notice and Waiver.
5.	Landlord and Tenant.	.
6.	Conditional Sales and Chattel Mortgages. =
7.	Interstate Commerce.
8.	Banks and Banking.
9.	Bankruptcy and Insolvency.
It is sought to have students do as much original
work as practicable, for such work tends not only to devel-
op and energize the natural powers of the mind, but also
to inspire self-confidence, adding alertness to initiative and
forcefulness to action. Hence it is that thesis
work enters so largely into the law curriculum at Notre
Dame.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION*
The .foregoing outline of the subjects of study will
enable prospective students to comprehend readily the
LAW DEPARTMENT.	35
wide range and exceptional thoroughness of the law cur-
riculum.
On account of the unusually favorable location of
the university for diligent and persevering work, it is pos-
sible for industrious students to do at least a fourth more
in the year than is elsewhere. attempted. The order of
topics, however, is not arbitrary. It is directory rather
than mandatory. There is really no definite beginning or
ending of the law. It is a seamless whole, as strikingly
remarked by Bishop, and one. may begin the study of it
at any time and with any subject, and so may he terminate
it. Yet it seems to be more logical and helpful to the
memory to follow the order above indicated. But should
it seem advisable at any time to change a subject from
one year to another, such change may be made at the
pleasure of the Faculty.
Instruction is given, it may be repeated, by means of
text-books, the study of cases, lectures, quizzes in review,
weekly answers in writing to the. more difficult questions,
monthly theses and moot-court work.
The lecture system, however, appears to be obsolete
or obsolescent in most of our American law schools, while
the use of text-books is coming more and more into favor.
Indeed, under the rules for admission to the bar in some
jurisdictions the applicant must have read a certain num-
ber of them before being deemed eligible even for examin-
ation.
Very few students are sufficiently familiar with pho-
nography to follow a lecturer intelligently and commit
legibly to paper what he says. Unless thus taken down
the lecture and the authorities cited in it are soon forgot-
ten. But to have it taken down in full by some one pro-
ficient in shorthand, type-written copies of it being subse-
quently multiplied and sold, would be contrary to the rules
.36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
in force where lectures are given, and far more expensive
than a text-book on the same subject. Owing to the gen-
eral nature of the law, there can be but very little in a
lecture that is not already to be found in some text-book
or report, which is far the more useful and valuable.
The case system, or study of cases, is the favored
method of instruction in several Eastern and some West-
ern law schools. It calls undoubtedly for careful study
and analytic reasoning, although not more so than the ex-
amination and choice of authorities in moot-court work.
While retarding the progress of students to a greater ex-
tent than do text-books, implying thereby greater thor-
oughness, it fails nevertheless .to present so clear, com-
prehensive and systematic a view of the law. Moreover,
it is a costlier system, so far as books are concerned. The
volumes of selected cases requisite for study bear no com-
parison in utility with text-books, as viewed with reference
to subsequent office furnishing and practice. There is.
however, a due appreciation of the real merits of the case
system at Notre Dame, and it is followed as far as prac-
ticable in certain lines.
Law students have three recitations daily throughout
the year based upon the text-books, the books of selected
cases, the questions answered in writing or the subjects
dealt with in the lectures. From one to two hours addi-
tional must be devoted daily .to office and library work,
while four hours weekly are required for moot-court prac-
tice and exercises of the law debating society. While this
society and the moot-court offer exceptional oppor-
tunity and strong incentive to acquire readiness in debate,
fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much
benefit may be derived from attending the regular classes
in elocution and oratory.
• . LAW DEPARTMENT.	37
When a subject is regularly begun in the law course,
it is studied and kept before the class, with recitations day
by day at the same hourj until finished. It is believed that
in this way the mind follows it more closely and that it
is better understood than it would be if frequently inter-
rupted by the intervention of other and dissimilar sub-
jects.
THE MOOT-COURT.
All students are required to attend and participate in
the exercises of the moot-court.. Students of the first year
are expected to serve on juries and as witnesses, while
those of the second year assist the Seniors and post-grad-
uates in the conduct of trials. The court is fully organ-
ized, having a judge, clerk, state's attorney, sheriff, coro-
ner and reporter. Pleadings are filed in the clerk's office,
served and returned by the sheriff, brought to an issue
with due formality by the attorneys, and the trial proceeds
under the rules of evidence before a member of the Facul-
ty, acting as judge.
In addition to the moot-court, which corresponds to
the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully equipped
court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk, master-in-chan-
cery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice's court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its district
judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in their
work. The statements of facts in the cases to be tried
are furnished by the Faculty. Students acquire in this
38	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
way a very fair idea of the customary procedure in the
regular courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY.
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at No-
tre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether any of
them shows more care in the choice of books, or is better
adapted for the use of students. All the latest reports of
State and Federal courts are on its shelves, and no diffi-
culty is experienced at any time, in finding the cases need-
ed for reference, thesis writing and moot-court work. A
great library, with a crowdingly large attendance of stu-
dents—too many to be personally known Dy or have per-
sonal attention from the Faculty—may often be less avail-
able for use or accessible than a comparatively small onej
It happens sometimes in such case that 20 or more stu-
dents are found vainly scrambling at the same time to se-
cure possession of a particular report or text-book. Such
experience fortunately does not fall to the lot of the young
men studying at Notre Dame. Not only all the latest re-
ports, but likewise all the leading text-books, are on the
library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in moot-
court trials, but must not be carried to private rooms, nor
hidden in desks. This rule is rigidly enforced by the li-
brarian. It is intended for the advantage and to facili-
tate the work of the students in common, for all have a
right to feel reasonably certain that when a book is need-
ed it can be found in the library. To search desks or call
at private rooms to inquire for it would involve unwar-
ranted loss of time, not to mention its violation of a funda-
mental principle of the law itself—equality in the sharing
■ of a common right or privilege. ■ The librarian is
LAW. DEPARTMENT.	39
charged with the duty of taking care of the books,
maintaining silence and good order and aiding the
students in their possible quest for needed volumnes
in the library. The number of books on its shelves may
be estimated at about 3,000, but so carefully have they
been selected that they may be said to surpass in practical
utility many libraries twice as large. It adjoins the law
lecture room. It is open practically all day and until a
reasonable hour at night. The light and ventilation are
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and com-
fortable place for study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the university is open likewise at all reasonable hours to
law students. It contains about 35,000 volumes, together
with the leading magazines and other current publica-
tions.
The library privileges are on a generous scale, and
students are not specially charged for making proper use
of the books, although otherwise as to the wrongdoer if
any book be misplaced and lost or injured through negli-
gence.
BOOKS FOR RECITATION AND CLASS
WORK.
The books used as the bases for recitation in class
work are chosen to a considerable extent from the Horn-
book series on account of their comparative cheapness and
availability for reference and review. As a rule, however,
they are narrower than the range of study. This has in
reality a much wider sweep in lectures, quizzes, explan-
ations and moot-court work. Of course, text-books of
merit outside of that series, or from different publishing
houses, are also used. In the study of principles, however,
40	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
it is sought to enable students to grasp the key that un-
locks the mysteries and tests the logic of all law books.
The books specially used by students for the purpos-
es indicated are purchased by and belong to themselves.
They are the exclusive property of the purchasers and
kept in their own rooms. They may form afterward, the
nuclei of libraries when the owners enter upon the prac-
tice of law. They are purchased from the publishers in
job lots at about the same prices that retail dealers pay.
On account of their technical nature, the superintendent
of the students' general office does not buy or sell them.
He leaves the matter largely to the law students them-
selves, and these procure them through the librarian
once they have been chosen for the class by the Faculty.
Under the circumstances, it is quite superfluous and may
be a source of loss for law students to procure books be-
fore coming here, although a good English dictionary
would be useful. The law books needed can be purchas-
ed through the librarian, and at lower prices on an aver-
age than they can be obtained for elsewhere. The cost
of books for each student may be estimated approximate-
ly at $20 a year..	>
TUITION, BOARD, LODGING AND
EXPENSES.
As already stated, students of this university live
within its precincts during the academic year. Some have
private rooms and others lodge in dormitories. Those
who have attained to or passed the second year of academ-
ic studies or their equivalent, whether in the law or some
collegiate course, are entitled afterward to free rooms.
Those, below that grade lodge in the dormitories or pay
$50 a year extra for rooms, as they choose. In other
words, a - preparatory or high school graduate ranks as a
■	LAW DEPARTMENT.	41
freshman. After one year’s study, whether in the law
or any other course, he attains to sophomore standing and
becomes entitled thenceforward to a free room. Should
he insist, however, upon having a room from the first,
there would be an additional expense of $50 for the fresh-
man year.
The academic year is divided into two sessions, and
the cost of tuition for each is $50 in advance. This divis-
ion, however, makes very little difference in fact, and the
regular work of the university passes from one to the
other without special feature or interruption. The cost
of board, lodging, washing, mending, etc, is $150 for each
session. Thus tuition, board, lodging and all the custom-
ary necessaries of student life amount to $200 a session, or
$400 a year.
The matriculation fee is paid but once, no matter how
many years afterward the student remains. It amounts
to $10, and such also is the final or graduation charge.
This is paid prior to Commencement, when the student
receives his diploma. •
In this rural retreat a student seldom finds occasion
to spend money, and his incidental expenses are excep-
tionally light. Considering the wholesome fare, comfort-
able quarters and excellent accommodations that he has,
not less than his attractive surroundings, so inspiring and
favorable for study, it cannot fairly be questioned that his
annual expenses at Notre Dame are quite moderate. For
like accommodations, services and advantages, it is said to
be almost twice as costly in some other places.
Additional copies of this announcement and the gen-
eral catalogue of the university will be forwarded to any
address, free of charge, on application to
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C.
-	President of the University,
.	Notre Dame, Indiana.
42
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE OAME.
NAMES OF STUDENTS
Who Received the Degree of LL. B., June 16, 1904*
Francis Joseph Conboy.......Wanatah, Indiana.
Francis Flanders Duquette. ... .Mendon, Michigan.
Nicholas Raymond Furlong. . .Fairplay, Wisconsin.
Harry G. Hogan............. Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Frank John Lonergan................Polo,	Illinois,.
Joseph John Meyers.. ....■.........Carroll, Iowa.
Francis Hugh McKeever...........Chicago, Illinois.
George Lewis Nyere................... .Cedar Rapids, Iowa.
Eugene Joseph O’Connor.......... .Oelwein, Iowa.
John Ireland O’Phelan...........Graceville, Minnesota.
Robert Emmet Proctor. ..........Elkhart, Indiana.
Thomas Ambrose Quinlan..........Chicago, Illinois.
Thomas Anthony Toner............Barry, Minnesota.
LAW DEPARTMENT.	43
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS
From September, 1903, to June, 1904
Dallas G. Aiderman...................... Indiana.
Francis J. Barry....................... Illinois.
Francis J. Conboy........................Indiana.
Walter M. Daly......................  South	Dakota.
Raymond J. Daschbach. ...............Pennsylvania.
Richard W. Donovan................... Illinois.
.Francis F. Duquette....................Michigan.
Richard R. Eaton.......................  Indiana.
Michael L. Fansler.....................  Indiana.
John Farragher. ........................... Ohio.
James P. Fehan..........................New	York.
Nicholas R. Furlong. ..................Wisconsin.
Clayton C. Golden.....................  Michigan.
Maurice F. Griffin..........................Ohio.
Earl F. Gruber.......................... Indiana.
Francis J. Hanzel......................Minnesota.
Thomas M. Harris.......................  Illinois.	/
Thomas F. Healy......................•......Illinois.
■ Harry G. Hogan. .....................  Indiana.
Roscoe P. Hurst. ..................    .Illinois.
Charles J. Kane.................    Pennsylvania.
■ Frederick J. Kasper.................. Illinois.
Robert A. Kasper...................... .Illinois.
Francis J. Laughran................ ....Illinois.
Frank J. Lonergan....................  .Illinois.
Thomas D. Lyons.......................South	Dakota.
Patrick J. MacDonough...................New	York.
Frank A. McCarthy.........................  Iowa.
Henry J. McGlew...................Massachussetts.
John W. Mclnerny......................  .Indiana.
Frank H. McKeever.......................   .Iowa.
Lawrence McNurney. ..................   Illinois.
Daniel L. Madden. ....................  Illinois.
Ralph C. Madden........................ Illinois.
William J. Mahoney.................Massachusetts.
44 ,	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Joseph J. Meyers................................Iowa.
Daniel L. Murphy............................Illinois.
George L. Nyere.................................Iowa.
Eugene J. O'Connor..............................Iowa.
John J. O'Connor...........................  Indiana.
John I. O’Phelan...........................Minnesota.
William E. Perce............................Illinois.
Robert E. Proctor..........................  Indiana.
Thomas A. Quinlan...........................Illinois.
Edward H. Schwab. .. . .................Pennsylvania.
Philip P. Sharkey.......................Pennsylvania.
Francis J. Shaughnessy. .................  .Illinois.
John W. Sheehan............................ Illinois.
Thomas A. Toner............................Minnesota.
Thomas J. Welch.............................Illinois.
George C. Ziebold.........................  Illinois.
PUBLICATIONS.
A large printing office is attached to the university,
and several publications are issued from its press. Among
these, not to mention catalogues, are The Ave Maria, with
a weekly circulation of 27,000, and The Scholastic, or uni-
versity weekly, with a circulation of 1,500. Law students
are expected to write for and be contributors to its
columns.