NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
UNIVERSITY PRESS
JULY, 1905
Application lias been made for entry at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Indiana,
as second class matter.
Notre Dame, Indiana
Series I.
Number L
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL CATALOGUE
1904-1905
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
UNIVERSITY PRESS	-
JULY, I905
Application has been made for entry at the Post Office, Notre Dame, Indiana,
as second class matter,
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY/
v The FACULTY—Address :
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address :
As for the faculty, except that the name of the
Hale in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
St; Joseph, South Bend & Southern, and the Michigan
Central railways run directly into South Bend.
5
CALENDAR FOR 1905-(906.
§
SEPTEMBER 12. 13-14.	Examination of Conditioned Stndents. Entrance Examination.
'	15.	School begins.
17.	Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls.
OCTOBER	13.	Founder’s Day.
27-28.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
29.	Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
NOVEMBER 1.	Feast of All Saints.
30.	Thanksgiving Day.
30.	President’s Day.
DECEMBER 5.	Contest in Oratory.
8.	Feast of the Immaculate Conception.
18-19.	Winter Examinations.
19.	Christmas Vacation begins.
JANUARY	5.	School begins.
FEBRUARY 2.	State Oratorical Contest.
22.	Washington’s Birthday.
23-24.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
MARCH "	17.	St. Patrick’s Day.
19.	St. Joseph’s Day.
APRIL	15.	Easter. No Easter Vacation.
16.	Easter Monday.
24-25.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
MAY	1.	Latest Date for handing in Prize and Gradua- tion Essay in all Collegiate Courses.
16.	Contest in Elocution.
30.	Decoration Day.	'
TUNE	4-9.	Examination of Graduates.
10.	Baccalaureate Sermon.
11-13.	General Examinations.
13.	Commencement. Preliminary Exercises 7:30 P. M.
14.	Graduation Exercises, 8:00 a. m.
*

BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Very Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.
t
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.
Rev. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY.'
Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C„
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JAMES FRENCH, C. S. C.,
VICE - PRESIDENT AND DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C
prefect of discipline.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.
%
SECRETARY.
a

DIRECTORS OF HALLS.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Rev. JOHN W. CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
Rev. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. ANDREW SAMMON, C. S. C.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.	Bro. CAMILLE, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL,
REV. THOS. H. CORBETT, C. S. C.
Bro. EMMANUEL, C. S. C.	Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Mr. JAMES CORBETT, C. S. C. Mr. WM. O’BRIEN, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.	Bro AIDAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. AUGUSTINE, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL.
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.
Bro. FINAN. C. S. C.	Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL.
Rev. ERANCIS MOLLOY, C. S. C. Bro. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. FLORENT, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.	Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.
Bro. ANGELUS, C. S. C.	' Bro. ERNEST, C. S. C.

PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS.
RBV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
Evidences of Religion.
Rev. JAMBS FRENCH, C. S. C.,
Batin and Bnglish.
REV. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
■ REV. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
REV. STANISLAUS FITTE, C. S. C.,
Philosophy and French.
REV. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin Language and Literature.
Rev THOMAS A. CRUMLBY, C. S. C.,
Psychology and English Literature.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
?	Chemistry.
REV. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. MICHAEL M. OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek Language and Literature.
REV.' MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
German and English.
REV. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
8	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Rev. JAMES TRAHEY, C. S. C.,
Latin and English.
REV. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. FRANCIS MOLLOY, C. S. C.,
Spanish.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B„
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
JOHN G. EWING, A. M., M. S.,
History and Political Economy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Physics and Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
JOHN B. BERTELING, M. D.,
Anatomy and Physiology. {House Physician^
FRANCIS J. POWERS, M. S.,
Biology.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S.,
Drawing.
HENRY JOHN SCHLACKS,
Director of Course in Architecture.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ROBERT L. GREEN, G. Ph.,
. Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
FREDERIC KARR,
Elocution and Oratory.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
German.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping and Commercial Law.
Bro. FINAN, C. S. C.
Gaelic.
ALPHAEUS B. REYNOLDS, A. B.,
Latin.
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B.,
English and Law.
WILLIAM J. MAHONEY, A. B.,
English and Mathematics.
MORRIS ZdOTT SWEENEY, B. S.,
Physics and Chemistry.
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. M.,
French and English.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German, and Director of Band and Orchestra.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,	.
Director of the Department of Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
IO
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
JOHN QUINLAN, A. B.,
English.
*
MICHAEL J. SHEA, A. B.,
Greek.
H. N. SEYMOUR HOME, •
Typewriting and Shorthand.
BENJAMIN R. ENRIQUEZ, C. E.,
Mathematics.
JOHN B. RENO, A. M., LL. B.
English.
WILLIAM B. KELLY,
Shopwork.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBINUS, C. S. C.
Bro. AIDAN, C. S. C.
Bro. AUGUSTINE, C. S. C.
JOHN J. MARONEY.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C
Bro. BENJAMIN, C. S. C.
Bro. RAYMOND, C. S. C.
TERENCE B. COSGROVE, A. B.
HENRY E. MAY,
Director of Gymnasium.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
II
t
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the year
1842, by the Very Reverend Bdward Sorin, the late
Superior General of the Congregation of the Holy Cross.
In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legislature of
Indiana gave the University power to grant degrees. The
beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State oj
Indiana, that Bdward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse,-
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a. body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the 1 University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted,
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States,
provided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other universities
in the United States.”
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE MAIN BUILDING.
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class-rooms and the refectories are
in this building. The library and the Bishops’ Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
others in the University, is lighted by electricity and gas,
and heated by steam. The corridors of the first floor are
decorated with mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 feet in height from the floor to
the roof-edge. The interior is decorated by Gregori, and
the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt and
many chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells and
the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Musical department, the reading rooms for Brownson and
Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre. The Theatre
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	13
is equipped with stage settings, and it will seat 1,200
persons.	'
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by the Museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens.
THE CHEMICAE DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first and second floors
of Science Hall.
On the second floor, and adjoining the General Museum,
is a large and well lighted room reserved for a library
and chemical museum. Here are a library of chemical
journals and books, and a steadily increasing collection
of minerals, chemicals, and chemical-technical products of
all kinds, designed to serve as illustrations of substances
and processes, discussed in the various lecture courses.
Adjoining this room are, successively, an apparatus-room,
filled with the most modern apparatus for lecture and
experimental work; a chemical store-room, where labora-
tory supplies may be procured by the students; a lecture
room, and a laboratory for Qualitative and Quantitative
Analysis. The laboratory is furnished with hoods, of
good draught; the desks are provided with water, gas,
and the necessary reagents, and fully equipped with
apparatus for work in gas analysis, organic analysis, and
with apparatus for ‘‘ Boiling Point and Freezing Point
Determinations.” The Balance Room, adjoining, contains
assay and analytical balances sensitive to the one ten-
thousandth of a gramme. The lecture room is provided,
among other things, with apparatus for stereopticon
illustration, with electric batteries, and with a complete
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
set of charts illustrative of the process employed in modern
chemical industries.
The assay and furnace-room, on the first floor, is
equipped with a set of gas furnaces of the most modern
type, for the operations of roasting, fusing, scorifying and
cupelling employed in the dry assay of ores.
The Department of
PHYSICS AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture
room, with a seating capacity of sixty-five students,
adjoining the rooms in which the apparatus is stored in
dust-proof cases. Several smaller rooms in the basement
contain heavy piers of masonry, for work with sensitive
galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Laboratories :
IN MECHANICS, ETC.:
Large physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard metre,
Geneva cathetometer, capable
of measuring to one twenty-
five thousandth of an inch.
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit recording chrono-
graph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Rotary air pumps and receivers,
A large clock with electrical
contact pieces,
Self-winding clocks,
Several mercury barometers,
Two aneroid barometers.
IN ACOUSTICS :
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
Set of electrically - operated
tunnel forks by Koenig,
A Scott-Koenig Phonautograph,
Edison phonograph of earliest
type,
Koenig’s movable tuning forks,
to draw compound curves on
smoked glass,
Three sets of organ pipes,
Four sets of fine tuning forks,
Apparatus for manometric
observation of sound pheno-
mena,
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Sets of vibrating rods, tubes
and bells,
Large double siren,
A large tuning fork producing
the lowest audible sound,
A set of very small tuning forks
producing the highest audible
sounds,
Apparatus for producing longi-
tudinal vibrations in rods,
15
A set of resonators mounted
together with capsules for
sensitive flames, arranged for
the analysis of complex
sounds,
An electrical metronome,
Mounted tuning forks carrying
small mirrors arranged to
perform Lissajou’s experi-
ment, producing complex
curves.
IN ‘LIGHT :
Complete set of apparatus,
made by Soleil, Paris, for the
measurement of the wave
length of light by the vari-
ous interference methods,
Sets of polarization apparatus,
Sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors,
Two heliostats,
Four spectroscopes,
A polarizing saccharimeter,
Three projecting lanterns for
gas or electric light, and
3,000 slides,
Set of large Nicol’s prisms
mounted,
Large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum,
Two Rowland gratings, 14,000
lines to the inch,
Sets of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland,
Several cameras with lenses
and attachments,
A well equipped dark-room for
photographic work,
Photometric room and equip-
ment.
IN HEAT:
Melloni’s apparatus for measur-
ing radiation, absorption and
reflection of heat, complete
with a set of prepared sub-
stances,
Standard thermometers,
Air thermometers,
IN ELECTRICITY
An absolute electrometer,
Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static pheno-
mena,
Steam engine indicator,
Calorimeters,
Apparatus for determining the
coefficient of linear expan-
sion, using the optical lever
method.
AND MAGNETISM :
Ten galvanometers of various
types,
Ammeters and voltmeters,
Qrie 2,qco lb, electro magnet,
i6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Four induction coils,
Six bridges of different types,
Historical set of motors show-
ing evolution of the modern
machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type,
Standard resistance coils,
Several sets of storage cells,
Complete X-ray outfit,
Sets of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy .4
In addition to the electrical apparatus in the Depart-
ment of Physics, the equipment for the practical work in
Blectrical Bngineering consists of engines, dynamos,
instruments, etc., of commercial size, as follows :
A three phase A. C. induction^ -
motor, arranged to operate on|
single phase circuits, with a ’
condenser compensator,
A high frequency 1000 V., 33 X.
W., composite wound, Wood
alternator of the latest type,
with exciter and a full set of
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of differ-
ent capacity,
A high tension transformer for
testing insulation,
O	7
An Edison bipolar 15 K. W.
125 V., generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and .
o
fifteen lamps,
A Wood arc machine, capacity
25 lights,
An Edison bipolar 3 X. W. 125
V., dynamo, with special
winding,
A Van Depoele compound
wound dynamo,
A special A. C. and D. C. 5 H.P.
dynamo or rotary converter.
A series wound dynamo with .
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors,
A forty horse power high speed
automatic engine,
A power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and
hand tools for metals,
A set of wood working tools,
A set of tools for metal work-
ing,
Telegraph relays, sounders,
switchboards, etc.,
Telephone apparatus, including
subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop
manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops,
jacks, switches, lightning
arresters, etc.,
Automatic telephone switch-
board containing first and
second selector and con-
nector switches, interrupter
heat coils etc. and three sub-
scribers sets. With this
apparatus all the operations
involved in the operation of a
10000 system may be per-
formed.
A complete central energy
switchboard, several lines and
subscribers sets and a selective
signaling four party line out-
fit.
A collection of historical sets,
including Reis’ transmitter
and receiver,
Standard portable bridge,
.Common portable bridge,
Xohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery resistence, etc.,
Testing battery,
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	17
D'Arsonval and common gal-
vanometers,
Ballistic galvanometer, stand-
ard condenser, etc., for
capacity work.
Resistance boxes, standard
megohms, etc.,
High resistance Thompson gal-
vanometer,
Standard cells,
Voltameter arranged for the
comparison of incandescent
lamps,
A plug switchboard controlling
all circuits,
A calibrating lamp rack.
A small engine belted to shaft-
ing to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and
polishing work to be plated;
solution, tank, etc.,—in all,
a complete outfit for electro-
type work,
A hot wire ammeter,
Twelve ammeters and volt-
meters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current meas-
urements,
A set of inclined coil
alternating current, portable
instruments; voltmeter,
ammeter and wattmeter,
A lot of arc lamps, series and
constant potential, open and
enclosed arcs of various types,
A dynamometer type wattme-
ter,
Recording wattmeters of vari-
ous types,
A collection of motor starting
rheostats,
A set of parts of incandescent
lamps showing the various
. stages in their manufacture,
A large collection of porcelain
insulators, etc., used in elec-
trical work, including a lot
of insulators for high tension
transmission lines,
A lot of armature core disks,
transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders,
pole pieces, samples of insu-
lation, commutator segments,
etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading
manufacturers of electrical
machinery,
A case of marked samples of
wire insulators, lamps, and
other construction materials,
Library of practical technical
books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and
trade publications,
EQUIPMENT IN THE DEPARTMENTS OE BIOLOGY,
GEOLOGY, AND MINERALOGY.
The Department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-
graduate students. All the class-rooms are furnished with
charts and models necessary in teaching the different
courses. • The arrangement of windows is such that the
rppm.S can be easily darkened so that a stereopticon and
18	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
lantern slides on the subjects of Botany, Zoology, and
Physiology may be used.
The Laboratories are well equipped with compound and
dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a library
of books pertaining to Biological subjects. The Botanical
laboratory contains twenty-four compound microscopes
and all the requisite accessories for work in Vegetable
Histology and Cryptogamic Botany. The general labora-
tory of Microscopy, Histology and Bmbryology is also
supplied with compound microscopes and their necessary
accessory apparatus and other equipments indispensable in
the courses mentioned above.
The Bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a
laboratory of Photo - Micrography which contains a perfect
photo - micrographic instrument with a complete set of
accessory apparatus for experimentation, photographing
microscopic objects, making lantern-slides, etc. A large
and fully equipped dark-room adjoins this laboratory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-
rooms and laboratories for the courses in Geology and
Mineralogy. The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms
are well equipped for work in blow-pipe analysis and
assaying.
‘ THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The Zoological collec-
tion on the second floor at present fills sixteen large cases
and represents typical forms of all the orders and genera of
vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large collection of
representative vertebrate skeletons has recently been added
to this part of the Museum.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
19
The Botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the other
of Canada. There is also a second collection of the woods
and fruits of the United States, almost complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a care-
fully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large Geological col-
lection ; some of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil
remains of animal and plant life.
ENGINEERING HALL.
This building is situated directly south of Science Hall,
and is a large three - story brick building, well lighted and
heated. The two upper floors are given up to Chemistry
and Pharmacy. The General Inorganic, Organic and
Elementary Chemical laboratories are on the third floor,
while the second floor is mostly taken up with Pharmaceu-
tical laboratories, a well equipped drug store, a lecture
room and a general stock room. Each laboratory is pro-
vided with ample hood accommodations, and each desk is
furnished with water, gas and suction.
The southern portion of the second story of this Hall is
used for the
'	CIVIE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The equipment of this department is sufficient for all the
practice and exercises in the field necessary to illustrate
and teach the practical methods of engineering. The
instrumental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit, two
engineer’s transits with levels and vertical circles attached •
to telescopes, one engineer’s wye level, and a plane table
with all the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, etc.
20	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The wood shop, machine shop and blacksmith shop are
on the first floor. The wood shop is supplied with modern
work*- benches fully equipped with the smaller tools
necessary for carpentry, twelve lathes for turning, a jig
saw, a revolving planer and a circular saw, the whole
forming an adequate equipment for a< thorough mastery
of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The machine shop contains two horizontal slide valve
steam engines which are used for experimental purposes.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived from
the electric station of the University, two ten - horse power
motors being used for this purpose, from which power is
transmitted to the various machines by a line of shafting
running the entire length of the building. The latest
improved lathes have been provided, nine in number,
varying from a five inch swing in the smallest to a large
engine lathe with sixteen foot bed having a capacity for
work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two drill presses,
a large planer, a shaping machine and a Brown and Sharp
milling machine complete the outfit, thus making the
machine shop a model of its kind. The blacksmith shop
has the usual complement for teaching forging, anneal-
ing, welding and tool making. In the foundry work the
student is instructed in the proper disposition of gates and
sprues, the mixing of sand, setting up and drawing simple
and complicated patterns and core -making. This is sup-
plemented with lectures on the proper mixing and heating
of cast iron for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the faculties afforded by the shops, the
engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which- have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregating
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	21
about 1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers
is installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows : — a
Worthington hot water meter for measuring the amount
of feed water, a feed water thermometer, for getting
temperature of same, a high range thermometer for the
temperature of generated steam, a throttling calorimeter
for ascertaining the quality of steam and an automatic
recording pressure gauge giving a continuous record of
the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding the
temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means of a
pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining samples of
flue gas for analysis. These, with a Carpenter coal
calorimeter for determining the heating value of the fuel,
comprise a full and complete equipment for giving the
student an intimate knowledge of the practical part of
boiler management and testing. A Webster feed water
heater and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two large
Worthington fire pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with a capacity of
1500 gals, per minute, with numerous separators, steam
traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete the
apparatus in the main steam plant. A McEwen high
. speed automatic engine, an Armington and Simms engine
of similar type and several low speed horizontal engines
with planimeters, indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules
and other necessary instruments, are used in studying’the
operation of the steam engine, distribution and economy of
steam, regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.
SORIN HALL*
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings 112
feet in depth. It has a basement and three high stories.
The building contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior or Sophomore standing in any of the
22	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Collegiate Courses are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture - room and a law
library. The building is lighted with electricity and
heated with steam. In the basement are recreation rooms
and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL.
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has three
stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width. There
are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation rooms
and a chapel. The building is lighted with electricity and
gas and heated with steam. Tor room-rent and care of
the room a fee is charged.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This building is located near the Bngineering Hall and
is designed for an equatorial telescope and for a transit
or meridan circle. The equatorial telescope now in the
building is intended for students of Astronomy, and is in
use whenever favorable weather permits.
THE INFIRMARY.
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for the.
use of students during illness. The sick are nursed by
Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University physician
visits them daily.
• THE GYMNASIUM.
The gymnasium which was burnt down in November,
1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on the
ground: it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball-
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
new apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	23
and showerbaths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than $3,000 to the fund for
re-building.
The Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the cinder track, and a portable stand near
the football rectangle. The field contains ten acres of
ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr. Warren
A. Cartier, C. B., of the class of’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS.
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principle are. Saint
Joseph’s Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Bdward’s Hall.
24
UNIVERSITY QE NOTRE DAME.
DISCIPLINE.
Official bi-monthly reports of each student’s class stand-
ing will be sent to parents and guardians.
The Faculty maintains that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of a
youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible to
bring about this development where students are granted
absolute relaxation from all Faculty government while
outside the class-room. A young man must learn obedience
to law by the actual practice of obedience, not by mere
appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtained except where
discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown to be salutary
by experience, are enforced at the University :
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds with-
out permission from the President or the person delegated
to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students during
the term timey except in cases of urgent necessity. There is
no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the Univerity im-
mediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in exam-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
inalions, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the use
of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
absence from the college limits are among the causes for
expulsion. In case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees will be returned.
No branch of study shall be taken up or discontinued
without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Bdward’s Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall; and those under thirteen, in St. Bdward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to those
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls that have
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or Corby
Hall leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
service in the College Church at stated times. '
10.	The use of. intoxicating liquors is strictly
prohibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of study
will not be permitted, but students are expected to take
part in outdoor sports and other games.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students is strictly
forbidden to countenance anything that savors of profes-
sionalism.
14.	All athletics will be governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided by its rulings by the regu-
lations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The President
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
of the University and members of the Faculty will compose
this Board, and reserve the right of a final decision on all
questions concerning athletics. The Faculty Board will
determine the amateur standing of the members of the
athletic teams and apportion the finances. By this
means indiscreet and unconsidered action of students will
be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Concerts are also given monthly by
organizations from without.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
MEDALS AND HONORS
The Quan Gold Medal is awarded yearly to the student
in the Senior Class of the Classical Course that has the
highest average over 80 per centum.
The Meehan Gold Medal, founded by Mrs. J. Meehan,
of Covington, is awarded to a Senior student in the
English, History and Economics or Classical Course for an
English Essay. This medal is awarded only when the
best essay has attained a fixed standard.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Medal, presented by Mr. A.
Hughes, of Denver, is awarded for the best record in
Mathematics in the Civil Engineering Course.
The Breen Gold Medal, founded by Mr. William P.
Breen, of Fort Wayne, is awarded for Oratory.
The Barry Medal, founded by Mr. P. T. Barry, of
Chicago, is awarded to the winner of the Senior contest in
Elocution.
The Mason Medal, presented by Mr.. George Mason, of
Chicago, is awarded to the student of Carroll Hall having
the best record for the Scholastic year.
The Studebaker Debating Prize, Seventy-five Dollars,
presented by the late Hon. Clement Studebaker, of South
Bend, is divided among the three members of the
University Debating Team.
First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby
and Brownson Halls that have maintained throughout the
year an average of at least 90 per centum for class-work
and observance of regulations. A first-honor man for the
first year receives a diploma, the second year a gold medal.
The medal may be received also during the succeeding
year of the course.
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (Payable on first entrance),............$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern Languages
included) Lodging, Washing, and Mending of Linens, per
Session of nearly ten months............................. 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (first year only),......................$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition, ..................... 250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery account,................... 10.00
Special Lecture and Concert Course^........................ 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra expense the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed below), Spending Money.
On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition,.‘...................$ 150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Sessions, September and January. The charge of $400 covers the
tuition fee, which is fixed at $100 per Scholastc Year. The latter
sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scholastic
Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the student be
dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules and regula-
tions herein stated and hereby brought to his notice; and so likewise
in the event of his leaving and absenting himself from the University
at any time or for any cause without proper notice and permission.
However, an exception is made if it seems to be expedient for him
to go to his home because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees
will not be conferred on any student whose accozint with the
University has not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE —
For whole Session of nearly Ten Months,
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Sorin Hall: Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores, Free;
Freshmen,...................................$ 50.00
Corby Hall,.....................................$ 80.00
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine-themselves to the
regular studies of the course they have entered any of the following
may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year. The
charges will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	29
Instrumental music — Lessons Use of each instrument....# 5.00
on Piano and use of Instru-	Vocal Culture.........#40.00
ment..............#60.00	Elocution-Special Course, #10.00
Use of Piano for advanced	Use of Library........# 5.00
Students..........#30.00	“ Scholastic, ” college
Telegraphy...........#25.00	paper..............#	1.50
Typewriting—Full Course,	Artistic Drawing.....#25.00
(20 lessons)......# 5.00	Applied Electricity...#40.00
Phonography..........#25.00	Special Lecture and Con-
Practical Mechanics...#30.00	cert Course.......# 3.00
Lesson on Violin, Guitar,	Gymnastics—Full Course
Flute, Cornet, Clari-	(20 lessons).......#	5.00
net, or Mandolin..#30.00 .
Laboratory Fees Listed under Regular Courses.
GRADUATION FEE,
For all Courses leading to a degree, $10 ; Commercial
Course, $5.
REMARKS,
The Entrance fee, cost of Books, Music and laboratory
fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, postoffice money
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange
will be charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Brownson, Sorin, Corby and Carroll Halls are closed dur-
ing the months of paly and August. Students wishing to
spend their Summer Vacation unde? the care of the College
authorities can be accommodated at San fose Park, Lawton,
Michigan.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the
University, a limited number of students aspiring to the
ecclesiastical state can be received at special rates. Fuller
information can be obtained by addressing the President.
The year 1905-1906 will open on Tuesday, September 12,
Courses of Instruction*
9
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	31
COURSES IN PHILOSOPHY*
L
(a)	Physiological Psychology — This course is a fairly
comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of con-
sciousness.
(b)	Experimental Psychology — Psycho-physical meth-
ods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology — The problems of the mind.
Nature, origin, and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive. Lectures three hours
a week for two terms
(d)	Laboratory Exercises — Experiments will be con-
ducted with special reference to their value as aids to
introspection. Sandford: Course in Experimental Psy-
chology.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IL
(a)	Elements of Epistemology* A study of the Scho-
lastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teachings of
Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant and
Spencer.
[This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and
General Metaphysics and will be given at the
beginning of the year during the time prescribed
for these studiesl\
(b)	Logic — Hyslop : Elements of Logic.
[ Two hours a week for two terms.]
32
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
(c)	General Metaphysics—Transcendental concepts:
their value in different systems of philosophy.
[ Two hours a week for one termf
(d)	Cosmology — The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
\One hour a week for one termf
(e)	Theodicy — The existence of God. His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
\One hour a week for one ternif
(f)	Student Discussions — Erom time to time through-
out the year students will be required to read and discuss
papers on various subjects in the field of philosophic
inquiry.
III.
Principles of Ethics*—if Man’s last end and Happi-
ness ; the Purpose of Man in this life. (Q. 2. Human
Acts ; Responsibility; Merit; Obstacles to Human Acts.
{Q. 3 f Origin of Morality ; Hedonism; Altruism; Sympa-
thy ; Essential Differences between Good and Evil; the
Constituents of Morality ; the Eternal Law. (0. /.) The
Natural Moral Law; its Existence and Characters; Evolu-
tion. (g. $f The Positive Law. {Q. 6.) On Conscience;
Good Eaith; Doubtful Conscience and Reflex Principles,
(g. 7.) Passions in Practical Life; their Classification;
their Imputability. {Q. 8f The Moral Virtues; Stoicism;
Epicureanism ; Christianity.
(a)	Individual Duties—Notions of Right and Duty.
if The Duty of Man to God; Necessity of External
and Public Worship; Obligation of Prayer ; the fact of
Sacrifice. (Q. 2.) The Duty of Man to Himself; Culture
of the intelligence, the Will, the Imagination, the
Memory; Care of the body; Suicide essentially Unlawful.
(Q. jf The Duty of Man to his Eellowmen; on Truthful-
ness and Lying, Homicide and Self-Defence ; on Duelling;
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	33
on Private Ownership, Socialism, Communism, Single
Tax; on the Right to Honor and Reputation; on Contracts
and Usury.
(b)	Social Duties—QQ. z.) The Domestic Society and
Marriage ; Monogamy; Polygamy and Divorce; Relations
between Parents and Children. (Q. 28) Education : the
Part of the Parents, the Church and the State. (0. J.) On
Slavery in Ancient and Modern Times ; Duties of Masters
and Servants. (Q. On Capital and Tabor.
[Five hours a week for one termj\
IV-
(a)	Moral Sociology — Necessity of a Public Society;
the City. (g. z.) Origin of the Civil and Political Organi-
zation ; Theories of Hobbes and J. J. Rousseau ; source of
authority in Human Society. (Q. 2 ) On the Divine
Right of Kings ; the Absolute Sovereignty of the People;
the Reasonable System. (^. 5.) The Different Forms of
Government; the Primitive Polity; the best Form of
Government; Opinions of O. A. Brownson. (£Z /.) On
Modern Democracy; the Position of the Church; the
Usurpation and Transfer of the Supreme Power; on the
Government de Facto. 5^ On Despotism; is it law-
ful to Resist a Tyrant? Theory of St. Thomas and
Machiavelli on Government. {Q. 6f The Distinction of
the three Social Powers ; Parliamentary and Representative
Government. QQ. yf Qualities of a good Ruler; the
Question of the Poor. (Q. 8.) Public Liberties ; Freedom
of the Press and of Conscience; the Right of the Sword ;
on War and Treaties. (Q. pf The International Law.
(Q. 108) Civilization. (Q. zz.) Church and State.
(b)	Government of the United States*—History of the'
* This course is sketched according to the principles laid down
in “The American Republic,” by O. A. Brownson, and “The
American Commonwealth,” by Mr. Bryce.
34	UNIVERSITY OE -NOTRE DAME.
Constitution; the Legislative Department of the U. S.;
the Executive Department of the U. S.; the President and
the Cabinet; the Judicial Department of the U. S.; the
Supreme Court; the Rights of the States and the United
States ; Jury, Suffrage and Elections; Ballot Systems ;
Parties and Party Machinery ; Patriotism and Religion.
This Course is for Classical Students.
(c)	History of Philosophy* — Schools and Systems.—
Ancient Philosophy : Pythagpras. — Anaxagoras — The
Sophists and Socrates.— Plato and Aristotle. — Epicurus.
— Zeno. — Pyrrho. — Eclecticism and Neo - Platonism.—
Cicero and Seneca. Philosophy of the Middle Ages —
Christian Platonism; St. Augustine. — Scholasticism : St.
Thomas of Aquin.— Renaissance and Modern Philosophy —
Neo - Platonism. — Erancis Bacon — Thomas Hobbes —
Descartes — Spinoza—Leibnitz — John Locke. Material-
ism.— David Hume.—Kant and his disciples.—Darwin
and Monism. — A. Comte and Positivism.—Herbert
Spencer.—T. Huxley—Agnosticism and Evolution.
•
* The text-book used is Dr. Turner’s “History of Philosophy.”
UNIVERSITY OS' NOTRB DAME.	35
COURSES IN GREEK.
I.
Lysias—Orations selected. Short history of the Attic
orators.
Homer— Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Bpitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., V. Stoffel.
\Four hours a week for one term^\
IL
Lysias—Orations selected.
Homer— Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St. John Chrysostom—Butropius.
\Four hours a week for one term^\
III.
Herodotus—Selections. Study of Herodotus dialect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
\Four hours a week for one term^\
IV.	.
Herodotus— Selections.
Selections from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Gregory—Machabees.
\Four hours a week for one term^\ •
V.
Demosthenes—De Corona. Review of political, situa-
36	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
tion and events in reference to the oration. Aeschines’
speech against Ctesiphon compared with the speech on
the Crown.
\_Three hours a week for one ierm.^
Thucydides—Book I. State and condition of Greece
before the Peloponnesian war. Importance of this war in
Greek history. The speeches in the congress of the allies
held at Sparta in respect to the complaints made against
the Athenians will be carefully analyzed and the choicest
specimens of the condensed arid vigorous style of
Thucydides will form the subjects for special class inter-
pretations. Stylistic differences between pure Attic and
archaic Attic will be pointed out.
\Two hours a week for one termf
N. B. During this course special attention will be
given to Attic syntax. Short introduction to textual and
exegetical criticism practically shown by passages selected
for that purpose. This is done in the belief that it is the
best way to make students appreciate the notes in the
editions of classical authors.
Practical Exercises — Embodying idiomatic expressions
and constructions of the authors read.
\Twice a month for one term.\
. VI
Thucydides—One book selected for each year. Thucy-
dides, the philosopher of history.
\One hour a week for one term^
Aeschylus—One play, to vary each year. In connection
with this will be discussed the origin of the drama.
Aeschylus the real founder of tragedy. The important
part which the chorus holds in the early tragedy. Relig-
ious and moral ideas of Aeschylus, to which Necessity
( fatum ) gives the key - note. The structure of a Greek
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	37
tragedy, the iambic trimeter and the lyric measures will
be sufficiently explained so as to be properly appreciated
by the students.
Incidentally also the Greek festivals, at which the plays
were represented, and the Dionysiac theatre will be
spoken of.
[One hour a week for one term.~\
Sophocles—Oedipus Tyrannus and Antigone.. Digest
of the Theban legends. Religious views of Sophocles
compared with those of Aeschylus.
[Two hours a week for one termf
Practical exercises in Greek Composition.
[Twice a month for one term.^
Elements of Greek Literature—Students shall use Jebb’s
Primer of Greek Literature.
[Twice a month for one termf
VIL.
Plato—Apology and Crito. Study of the character of
Socrates,—a philosopher or a sophist? His friends and
enemies. Athenian court-proceedings and jurisprudence.
[Two hours a week for one termf
N. B. Students are required to read the symposium of
Plato outside of class.
Euripides—One play, to vary each year. Religious
tendencies of Euripides. His dramatic art. The frequent
resolutions in the lambic Trimeter of Euripides, compared
with those of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Picturesqueness
—the chief elements in his plays, as heroic grandeur and
artistic perfection were the characteristic traits in Aeschy-
lus and Sophocles respectively. Euripides’ right to the
title of Scenic Philosopher.
[Two hours a week for one term.~\
38
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Short Introduction to Modern Greek — Reading of
Modern Greek stories and anecdotes. Stoffel.
Lectures in Greek Literature—Based on Christ’s Grie-
chisthe Litteratur - Geschichte in Iwan v. Muller’s Hand-
buch der Klassischen Altertums Wissenschaft.
a month for one termJ\
VIIL
Aristophanes—Two plays, to vary from year to year.
The Acharnians and Knights; the Frog and Clouds; or
the Birds and Wasps. In connection with the reading of
these plays will be treated the Greek comedy,—its origin,
nature and aim. Aristophanes—the great, burlesque
critic of Athenian life and manners, political, intellectual,
moral and social. The plays are selected especially in
view of this point. The structure of comedy compared
with the structure of tragedy.
\_Two hours a week for one terml\	t
Euripides—Blectra. With this will be compared and
partially read in class the Blectra of Sophocles and the
Cheophori of Aeschylus, on the same subject.
\One hour a week for one termJ\
Pindar—Selected odes, in connection with which the
public games of Greece will be considered.
[Elective, one hour a week for one termf
t
QutsQty Reading of the Greek Fathers—St. Basil —
The Martyr Gordius. St. John Chrysostom—The Return
of Bishop Flavian. St. Gregory Nazianzen— Funeral
Oration of Caesarius.
[Elective, one hour a week for one term.^
Lectures in the history of Greek literature.
[Twice a month for one terml\	,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
COURSES IN LATIN.
I.
Livy—Book XXI. Study of Livy’s Grammar and
Style.
Cicero — Bpistles selected.
Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one term^
IL
Livy—Book XXII.
Cicero—De Senectute and De Amicitia.
Pliny—Kpistl es selected.
Prose Composition. Writing of continuous prose.
[Five hours a week for one termi\
IIL
Cicero—De Oratore. Book I.
Horace — Odes and Kpodes. Study of Metrical Sys-
tems ; Peculiarities of Style; Plan of Composition;
Comparison with Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one termi\
IV*
Tacitus—Dialogus De Oratoribus.
Horace—Odes and Kpodes; or, Satires selected. See
Course III.
Terence — Phormio.	Short history of Greek and
Roman comedy.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[Five hours a week for one term^
40	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
V	.
Livy—Roman History, First Book. In the reading of
the text particular attention is called to the rules of
Syntax — roots and derivation of words—and the Ancient
History, Geography and Mythology. •
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases or
original. Short fables and stories.
Horace—Bpistula ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
criticised from a Philological and Literary standpoint.
Ancient Literature — Historians and Lyric Poets : their
lives, their works, their genius.
[Five hottrs a week for one temi\
VL
Tacitus—Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
Terence—Andria. Sight reading.
Horace—The Literary Bpistles.
Weekly practice in written Composition, Latin Con-
versation and Versification.
Ancient Literature—Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Five hours a week for one tem.\
VIL
Quintilian — De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth and
Twelfth. Translation. The explanation embraces a literary
criticism of Grecian and Roman Orators, and practical
remarks on Latin Idioms and the fine arts of Antiquity.
Short Orations or Dissertations, and practical Conver-
sations take place weekly.
Plautus—Captivi. The study of the play gives a full
knowledge of the Characters, the Plot and the Style, the
archaic Forms, and the Constructions peculiar to the
author,
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
41
Ancient Literature—Orators, especially Demosthenes *
and Cicero.
[Five hotirs a week for one termO^
VIII	.
Cicero—De Officiis. Partly sight reading. Besides
the study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of
Grecian Philosophy, and continual reference is made to
Course III. in Philosophy.
Oratorical and Philosophical Compositions alternate
weekly. Latin Conversation on general topics.
Lucretius—De Rerum Natura. Select passages. Synop-
sis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous
philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the
errors of our day. Style of the writer.	.
Ancient Literature—Philosophers, particularly Socrates,
Plato and Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Five hours a week for one term.~\	. 6
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
I.
(a)	Prose Forms. Special treatment of Exposition and
Argumentation. Genung’s Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part II., and Heydrick’s How to Study Literature.
[Three hours a week for one term.\
(b)	Literature. Higginson and Boynton’s.
[ Three hours .a week for one termd\
(c)	Lyric Poetry.
[ One hour a week for two terms. ]
ft
42
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
IL
(a)	Prose Forms. Special study of the Novel and the
Short Story.
[ Three hours a week for one term}
(b)	Literature. The Development of English Litera-
ture.
\Three hours a week for one term}
(c)	The Sonnet.
\_One hour a week for two terms}
III.
(a)	Prose Forms. Intensive study of the Essay and
the Oration.
\Three hours a week for one term}
(b)	Literature. Recent Bnglish and American Poetry.
[ Three hours a, week for one term. ]
(c)	Didactic Poetry and Satire.
\One hour a week for two terms}
IV.
(a)	The Laws of the Epic and the Drama.
\Three hours a week for one term}
(b)	Shakespeare. Reading and Analysis of the Plays.
\Three hours a week for one term}
(c)	The Leading Poets of the Nineteenth Century.
\One hour a week for two terms}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
43
COURSES IN ELOCUTION AND
ORATORY.
Readings and Declamations.—This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Each
student will be required to give two declamations.
\Two hours a week for first terml\
II.
Continuation of Course I.—Bach student will be required
to give three declamations.
\Two hours a week for second term.^
.	III.	*
Practical Elocution.— Exercises in breathing, voice-
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation and
emphasis and their application in the reading of selections.
Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
[ Two hours a week for first terml\
IV.
Continuation of Course III.— Further exercises in
breathing, voice-culture, action. Quality, Force, Pitch
and Time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures
on the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and
Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
[ Two hours a week for second terml\
V.
Oral Discussions—The application of Formal Logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
44
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and a
course in Logic are required for admission to this course.
It is limited to 24 students.
[Two hours a week for first term.\
.	VI.	•
Shakesperian Reading — The critical and artistic read-
ing of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with stage
action. The students present the play by scenes before
the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for admission
to this course. It is limited to 24 students, and alternates
with course VII. below.
[Two hoicrs a week for second term!\
VII.
Oratory — A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Lach student is required to write and
deliver a biographical oration on one of the great orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III. and
IV. above and course I. in English are required for
admission to this course. It is limited to 24 students and
alternates with course VI. above.
[Two hours a week for second term.\
VIII.
Assembly Work — This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists of
debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptus and drill work in parliamentary law. Wed-
nesday from 1 to 3. One hour credit.
[Throughout the year.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	45
COURSES IN HISTORY.
1.
ANCIENT HISTORY.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest of Rome of the
Hellenic world. Readings, and examinations on required
texts. This course is given in an alternate year with
Course I. (b).
[Four hours a week for one year.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the Barbarian invasions. Read-
ings, and examinations on required texts. This course is
given in an alternate year with Course I. (a).
In both courses, the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and to
study the same in De Coulanges’ The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for one year
IL
MEDIAEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY.
(a) The History of the Middle Ages from the invasion
of the barbarians, and the history of the periods of the
Renaissance and the Reformation of 1603. Readings, and
examinations on required texts.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
^b) The General History of Europe from the begin-
ning of the 17th century to the present time. Readings,
and examinations on required texts.
[Five hovers a week for one year.]
III.
The History of the British Isles to the Revolution of
1689— Readings, and examinations on required texts.
The student is required to obtain by direct reading and
1
46
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
examinations a special knowledge of the development of
the political institutions of Great Britain, using Eeilden’s
Constitutional History.
\_Five hours a week for one year
IV.
AMERICAN HISTORY.
*
(a)	American History from its beginning to 1763 —
Readings and examinations on required texts.
\_Four hours a week for five months.]
(b)	American History from 1763 to the present time—*
Readings, lectures and examinations. There is first given
by lectures an outline of the political condition of the
Colonies under the Crown, the causes leading up to the
Revolution of 1776, the Revolution, the political status of
the State after Independence, the Confederation of 1781,
the causes leading to the formation of the Constitution,
and the Constitutional Convention. This is followed by a
thorough treatment of the political history of the United
States since 1789, using as an outline text, Johnson’s
American Politics.
\Three hours a week for o?ie year.]
COURSES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE.
(a.)
ECONOMICS.
I. The Elements of Economics, vi^.:—hand, Human
Exertions and Capital; Value, Money and Credit; Rent,
Interest, Profit and Wages; and Population and Consump-
tion. The text-book used is Walker’s Manual of Political
Economy.
\Four hours a week for five months
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	47
IL Industrial History and the history of Economic
Thought. Readings, lectures and examinations on
required texts.
\Three hours a week for one year
IIL Money, Credit and Banking, with special treat-
ment of the monetary experiences of the United States.
Lectures, readings, and examinations on required texts.
\Four hours a week for five months^
IV* Distribution — A course covering the Land and
Labor Questions and Socialism. Lectures, readings and
examinations on required texts.
\_Four hours a week forfive months.\
(b)
POLITICS.
V	. The Elements of Politics—Lectures and Examina-
tions on required texts.
[ Two hours a week forfive months^
VL	The American Constitution and Political Institu-
tions. Lectures, readings, and examinations on required
texts.
\Two hows a week for five months^
VIL Jurisprudence—A course covering (a) The out-
lines of the Science of Law. (b) , The elements of
International Law> and (c) Lectures on selected topics
of Roman and Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and
examinations on required texts.
\Two hours a week for one year^\
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
VIIL	The Elements of Sociology—Lectures, readings,
and examinations on required texts. •
[ Two hours a week for five months^\
48
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN ROMANCE LANGUAGE.
This Course includes the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
Its principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal
special attention will be paid to Philosophy.
COURSES IN FRENCH.
I.
This Course consists in reading, writing short sentences,
explaining the parts of speech, especially the regular
•conjugations as well as the more usual irregular verbs,
then translating two at least of the following works:
Houghton’s French by Reading. Fa Tache du Petit
Pierre. (Mairet). Un cas de Conscience. (Gervais). Fa
Main malheureuce. (Guerber). Sans Famille. (Malot).
Super’s Reading from French History.
\_Five hours a weeki\
II.
The intermediate class continues and perfects all the
work of Course I. Dictations and conversations are added
on practical topics, and careful translation made of two or
three of the following works: Fe Voyage de M. Perri-
chon; (Labiche). Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre.
(Feuillet). Fables choisies. (La Fontaine). Fe Medecin
Malgre’ Fui. (Moliere). Fe Cid. (Corneille). Bsther.
(Racine'). Pages oubliees de (Chateaubriand). Fa
Question d’ Argent. (Dumas).
\Three hours a weekl\
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	49
III.
The advanced class is devoted chiefly to the prose and
poetry of the 19th century and includes composition, oral
practice and brief notions of literature. Besides a
translation and criticism of the best writers such as«
Causeries du Lundi. {Ste. Beuve}. On Rend 1’ Argent.
{Coppee}. Hernani. {Hugo}. Meditations {Lamartine).
Athalie. {Racine}. L’Avare. {Moliere}. Mlle, de la
Seigliere. {Sandeau}. Les Origines de la France Con-
temporaine. {Taine}. Expedition de Bonaparte en
Egypte. {Thiers}. Ste. Elisabeth de Hongrie. {Monta-
lembert.}
\Two hours a weekl\
N. B.—The books used are not necessarily the same
every year.
COURSES IN SPANISH.
L
Introductory Course—General outlines of grammar with
composition. Translation of easy tales from Trueba,
Fernon Caballero, Perez Escritch, etc., with select Fables
of Samaniego, and Iriarte.
\_Four hours a week for one year.]
II.
Advanced Course—Spanish Prose and Poetry of the
18th and 19th centuries, with composition and the history
of the literature of the period.
\_Four hours a week for one year?)
III.
Literature of the 16th and 17th centuries : Cervantes,
Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the Literature of the
period, with essays in Spanish.
\Four hours a week for one year. ]
50	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Early Spanish — El Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the 15th century.
[Two hours a week for one year. ]
COURSES IN ITALIAN.
A two years’ course. The chief work of this course is
a critical study of Dante’s Divina Commedia. Reading
from Tasso, Petrarca, Ariosto’s Satires, Manzoni, etc.
COURSES IN PORTUGUESE.
L
Wall’s Portuguese Conversation Grammar — Texts:
Camillo Castello Branco, “Perfil do marquez de Pombal;”
Pinheiro Chagas, “ Novellas Historicas;” Herculano,
‘ ‘ Lendas e narrativasJoao de Deus, ‘‘ Campo de flores. ’ ’
IL
Sermoes do Padre Antonio Vieira; Camoes, “OsLusia-
das. ’ ’ History of Portuguese literature.
COURSES IN OLD FRENCH.
Special attention will be paid to the laws uderlying the
formation of the French language from the popular Latin.
For this purpose a work like Bracket’s Grammaire
Historique will be studied. It is under this point of view
that Old French authors will be read, especially La
Chanson de Roland.
COURSES IN PROVENCAL.
Language and Literature, with reading from the works
of the Troubadours.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
51
COURSES IN GERMAN.
--------e.
L
Grammar—Joynes- Meissner. Marchen and Brzahlun-
gen, Guerber. Vol. I. and II.
Themes — Original and imitation work.
\JFive hours a weekj
IL
Special Course for students in the Bnglish and Scientific
Courses.
Grammar— Joynes-Meissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
\Three hours a weekj
Ill-
Readings from scientific and literary works.
0	\_Two hours a week^ ,
COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
I.
/
Algebra—This course includes a study of the binomial
theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance, var-
iables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
thorough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation, detached coefficients, surd and imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s theo-
52	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
rem; Horner’s method; roots of complex number and
trignometric solution of cubic equations.
[Five hours a week for one termi\
* H*
Analytic Geometry—This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections, their equation^
and properties; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; higher plane
curves, equations of the third degree ; different systems of
coordinates; transformation of coordinates ; spirals ; an
elementary course in geometry of three dimensions, em-
bracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces of
revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric sur-
faces and supplementary propositions.
IIL
Calculus Differential — This course, as also Courses IV.
and V., is designed to meet the requirements of Engineer-
ing students. It includes a study by the methods for the
differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions; suc-
cessive differentiation and differential coefficients; treat-
ment of implicit and compound functions; expansion of
functions; indeterminate forms; partial differential coef-
ficients of th§ first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature ; radius of curvature; envelopes; singular
points of curves, maxima and minima of functions of one
independent variable, and of several independent variables;
tracing curves, differentials of arcs, plane areas, surfaces
and volumes of revolution.
[Five hours a week for one term^
IV.
Calculus, Integral—Integration of elementary forms and
of rational fractions; integration by rationalization and by
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
53
parts ; successive integration ; multiple integrals; definite
integrals, limits of integration ; double integration applied
to plane areas ; rectification of plane curves ; quadratures
of ’ plane areas and surfaces of revolution ; surface and
volume of any solid ; intrinsic equation of a curve. This
course is supplemented by numerous exercises and
examples.
[Five hours a week for one term.^
V.
Differential Equations — An elementary course for en-
gineering students, supplementary to the Course of Integral
Calculus. It embraces : equations of the first order and
first degree; equations of the first order but not of the first
degree ; singular solutions; linear equations with constant
coefficients; special forms of equations with higher orders.
Numerous applications to Mechanics and Physics are
introduced during the course.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Elective Work — The prescribed Courses in Pure
Mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. .The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students necessary to constitute a class in
any one subject must be at least five.
[a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal,
(b) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todlrunter, Lock,
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hamts, Muir, (d} Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (y) Differential Equa-
tions, Elementary Course, Murray. (/) Advanced Cal-
culus, Byerly, Todhunter, Williamson. (^*) Advanced
Analytic Geometry, Salmon. (K) Analytic Geometry of
Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (f) Quate
nions, Hardy, with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours' recitation a week for one subject^
54	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
I.
Descriptive Geometry — In this course are considered
problems on the point, right line, and plane; single
curved, double curved, and warped surfaces; problems
relating to tangent planes to single curved, double curved,
and warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces by planes ;
tangencies, development of surfaces ; spherical projections;
orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylindrical, and
conic projections; construction of maps, shades and
shadows; linear perspective; isometric projections ; theory
and plates. Numerous practical problems and exercises
requiring the application of the principles of Descriptive
Geometry, are added by the instructor.
\Three hours a week for two terms. ]
II.
Surveying—This course comprises the whole theory of
land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment of
the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods of
measuring; relocation of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions ; obstacles to measurment; computations; field notes
and plots; laying out land; parting off land; dividing up
land; Public Tands survey.
\Five hours a week for one term?^
III.
Surveying — Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in
the class-room ; practice in keeping field notes ; computa-
tions and plots.
\Four hours a week for the spring termi\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
55
IV.
Higher Surveying — This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of surveying than Course II. and
can not be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
Engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
attachment ; topographical surveying with the transit and
stadia ; mining surveying; mining claims ; survey of mines
with shafts and drifts; determining positions of ends of
tunnels, and depths below surface ; theory of hydrographic
and city surveying; geodetic surveying and leveling;
measuring base lines; adjustments of angles, triangles, and
quadrilaterals ; latitude and azimuth ; time and longitude;
changing mean time into sidereal time and sidereal time to
mean time.
\_Five hours a week for one termi\
'	V.	*
Surveying — Exercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments ; stadia and plane table
surveying in the field, leveling; practice in hydrographic
surveying.
\Four hours a week for the spring term.^
VI.
Railroad Surveying — This course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary sur-
vey for a railroad ; theory of maximum economy in grades
and curves; location of curves by deflection angles and
offsets; obstacles to location of curves ; special problems in
curves; theory of compound curves; turnouts and cross-
ings ; compound transition curves ; cubic parabola ; curving
the rail on curves and elevation of outer rail; easing
grades on curves; vertical curves; earthwork and
prismoidal formula; theory of excavation and embank-
5&
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
ment; correction in excavation on curves; cross-section
leveling.
[Five hours a- week for one terwif
VIL
Railroad Surveying — Exercises in the field; staking out
and running tangents, simple, compound and transition
curves; execution on the ground of many problems previ-
ously treated theoretically ; survey for a short line of rail-
road, leveling, cross-section work, and setting slope stakes;
making profiles and maps; calculating the necessary ex-
cavations and embankments and cost of construction;
culverts.
[Four hours a week for one term.~\
VIIL
Analytic Mechanics — The aim of this course is to pre-
pare students of Engineering for the study of the courses
of Applied Mechanics. The course comprises a study of
the fundamental principles of Statics, Kinematics, and
Kinetics. The subjects selected are studied with the
object of thoroughly preparing the engineering students
to pursue the technical and practical branches of their
respective courses. Some of the topics considered in this
course are: work, energy, conservation of energy ; power,
composition and resolution of forces, centre of gravity,
centre of mass, moment of inertia, acceleration, dynamics
of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc.
[Five hours a, week for one term^
IX.
Mechanics of Materials — This course is intended to
meet the requirements of Engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of forces
on beams and structures, to design economically and intel-
ligently the parts entering into a complete structure. The
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	57
%
course comprises a study, according to the latest and most
approved methods, of tension and its effect on materials,
compression, theories of flexure and rupture from trans-
verse stress, shearing stress, transverse strength, beams of
uniform resistance, various forms and loaded in any
manner, design and strength of beams and columns, effect
of long continued stresses, and repeated stresses, factor of
safety and working stresses, strength of pipes and cylinders,
theory and practice of riveting, torsion, transmission of
power by shafts, continuous girders equation of curves of
deflection, theorem of three moments, moment at any
support, the resilience of materials, apparent stresses and
true stresses, etc.
\Five hours a week for one terwu\
X.
Bridges and Roofs—This course comprises a study of
the different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses,
and the calculation of the strains produced when loaded in
any manner, the weight of the structure and the effect of
wind included. Both graphical and analytical methods are
used. Besides the various systems of trussed bridges,
which are studied in detail, the plate girders, suspension
bridges, cantilever bridges, draw bridges, and roofs of
various designs are given equal attention; the purpose
being to familiarize the student 'with the different forms
and to enable him to design and to estimate the cost of
construction.
\Five hours a week for one term^\
XL
Graphical Statics — This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centres off
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically determ-
ined by the application of the principles of the force and
8	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
equilibrium polygons; also the determination of stresses in
bridge tresses with parallel chords and with broken chords,
caused by uniform loads and locomotive-wheel loads;
graphical determination of stress es in roof trusses, graph-
ical treatment of the arch, symmetrical and unsymmetrical
cases ; graphical method for arch-ribs of hinged ends, and
of fixed ends ; stress diagrams ; tempera ture stresses;
braced arches; graphics applied to continuous girders. This
course is supplemented by full explanations, notes, ex-
amples, and problems.
[Five haters a, week for one termf
XII.
Engineering — This course is taken by students of Civil
Engineering in the Senior Year, and teaches the principles
of the science of Civil Engineering and the most approved
methods of constructing engineering works, such as piers,
abutments, foundations, coffer dams, reservoir walls; in-
struction as to the types of structures suitable for differ-
ent localities; economy of construction and framing;
properties of building materials, as wood, stone, cement,
brick, iron; methods of testing, methods of preparation,
preservation and cost; construction of masonry arches,
tunnels, sewers, highways, and city streets; discussion of
framed structures of different types; river and harbor im-
provements ; canals ; seacoast defences.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering—This course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts ; shape, material and calcula-
tion of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation;
separate and combined systems compared; pollution of
rivers; chemical precipitation; results and cost of purifi-

UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	59
cation; general municipal and domestic sanitation ; in-
spection of neighboring works.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
$
Stereotomy — This course comprises a study of the ap-
plication of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to the
determination of the forms and sizes of the stones used in
the construction of the different classes of arches and
masonry structures. This course is given by lectures in
the Drawing Room, explaining the construction of tem-
plates. and use of directing instrument; also explanations
of methods of drawing plans, elevations and developments
of oblique arches, wing walls and the like. A certain
number of plates and drawings is required, illustrating the
methods of performing practical work.
[ Two hours a week for one termk\
XV.
Hydromechanics — This course is a thorough study of
the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrodynamics,
to which are added many practical exercises. The sub-
jects considered are the transmission of pressures, centre
of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of various
shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem with friction;
Chezy’s formula; Rutter’s formula; flow over weirs, and
through tubes; flow in pipes ; loss of head in friction and
other losses ; flow in conduits, canals, and rivers; veloci-
ties in cross section; methods of gauging the flow,
measurement of water power, dynamic pressure of flowing
water ; designing of waterworks and standpipes ; hydraulic
motors and relative merits; discussion of water wheels
of different types, and a study of the conditions determin-
ing high efficiencies; classification of turbines, and a
complete study and discussion of the different forms.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
6o
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
XVL
Geodesy — This is an elementary course prescribed for
Civil Engineering students in the Junior Year, and com-
prises a study of the instruments and methods of observa-
tion, base measurements and field work of the triangulation;
method of least squares, elementary course ; calculation of
the triangulation, and theory of probable errors; geodetic
latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is followed by a
brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
\_Four hoicks a week for one term.^
COURSES IN ASTRONOMY.
Astronomy — Practical. This course is designed to meet
the requirements of Civil Engineering students and to
give them the training and information necessary for
intelligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their pro-
fessional career. The course comprises a study of
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of more
precision than those used in ordinary surveying. The
adjustments and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computation; problems in finding right ascension and
declination; different methods for finding latitude, longi-
tude and time are studied in detail, and the methods of
making the observations and their adjustments, and dis-
cussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into sidereal,
and sidereal time into solar. In connection with this
subject is given a more complete study of many of the
topics considered in elementary astronomy, as here they
n
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
6l
are treated mathematically; as for example, methods for
finding parallax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and
correction for refraction. The subjects of procession,—
nutation — annual aberration — proper motion of stars,
etc., are studied.
\Three hours a week for one term.\
COURSES IN MECHANICAL ENGINEER-
ING.
I.
Thermodynamics — The subject begins wih a tneo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt upon,
and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refrigerating
machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in detail.
Frequent reference is made to trade catalogues, of which
an abundant supply should be obtained by the student.
\Fiwe hours a week for one ierm?\
IL
Materials of Engineering—This course, supplemented
by shopwork and laboratory ^rk in testing materials of
construction, is designed with the purpose of acquainting
the student with the properties of the materials he will use
in his profession. Tensile and shearing strength, elasticity
and resistance are studied, together with the effects of
strain, intermittent loading and impact. The process of
manufacture of the most important materials is taken up
62
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
and estimates of the cost of construction at the market
prices complete the work. Thurston’s Materials of
Engineering is the text-book used.
\Two hours a week for one termf
IIL
Steam Engine Design — In this course the forms and
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
advantages and adaption of special forms of engines for
specific work are taken up, which give the student a
thorough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest
researches and contemporary practice may be consulted in
the numerous publications found in the University library.
During the first term of the Senior Year is required the
complete design with working drawings of a simple non-
condensing steam engine for a specific purpose. The
second term is given to designing a multiple expansion,
jacketed, condensing engine for marine service. The
text-book used is Whitham’s Steam Engine Design,
\Five hours a week for one termi\
IV.
Steam Boilers—This subject is treated much as that of
the steam engine. The determination of sizes of parts
from considerations of strains, thickness of shells, size of
rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of connection
of boilers with efficiency of furnaces and life of boiler, are
some of the subjects considered. The method of determ-
ining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface, heights of
chimneys, boiler settings and materials used in construc-
tion are also discussed.
[ Three hours a week for one termf
Kinematics—This course treats on the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
63
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining of
the parts to move these paths. The general theory is then
applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative motion of
. machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys, speed
cones, link work and other aggregate combinations.
Barr’s Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book used.
\Five hours a week for one termd\
VL
Machine Design — This work involves a study of the
form and strength of machine parts as applied in designing
-with computation of dimensions for fastenings, bearings,
rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc. The deriva-
tion of rational formulse and the determination of empirical
formulae are included and applied in designing. The
text-books used are Unwin’s Elements of Machine Design,
Low’s Handbook of Mechanical Engineers and Reed's
Machine Design and Drawing.
\Three hou,rs a week for one lermd\
VIL
Valve Gears—This course includes a complete study of
the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are
treated in the same way and in conclusion the student is
made familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text-book is
Halsey’s Valve Gears.
\_Two hoztrs a week for one termd\
VIIL
*
Mechanical Laboratory—The work taken up includes a
study of the methods of testing the steam engine under
varying running conditions, valve setting, calibration of
thermometers, gauges and indicator springs, use of Pony
64	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
brake, Weber and Emerson dynamometers, Pelton water
wheel, Wier calibration, etc. Text-book, Carpenter’s
Experimental Engineering.
\One afternoon each 'week for one term.^
IX	.
Thesis—Each candidate for a degree in this department
must present for graduation a thesis of considerable mag-
nitude which will exhibit his knowledge, of the course he
has followed. It may embrace designing, experimental
investigation or original research in a subject selected by
the student and approved by the Professor. .The major
part of the second term, Senior Year, is devoted to this
work, and graduation is conditional- upon the knowledge
of Mechanical Engineering displayed in its preparation.
\Twelve hours a week for one tem.~\
STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS.
A briefer course in the study of boilers and steam
engines designed to familiarize the student with the
different types in use and their respective merits. Only
that theory is taken up which is necessary to the working
out of practical problems, the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves with
an abundant supply of trade catalogues.
\Three hours a week for one term^\
XI.
Gas Engines—This course, extending over’ two sessions,
is given to a general descriptive study of all the types of
gas engines and explosive motors. The general con-
struction of gas, oil and vapor engines is studied together
with their adaptation to various uses. Results due to
change in ignition, compression and variation of working
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	65
fluid; methods of speed regulating and governing and the
details of auxiliaries as, pumps, carburetters, hot tubes,
batteries, spark coils and dynamos are dwelt upon. The
text-book used is Gas, Oil and Vapor Engines by Hiscox.
\_Five hours a week for one yeari\
XIL
Gas Engine Design—A complete study of the thermo-
dynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-book,
lectures and drawing board The major subjects taken up
are power, efficiency, economy, forces due to gas pressure
and inertia and dimensions of engine parts. Lucke's Gas
Engine Design is the text-book used.
\_Five hours recitation and ten hours drawing per
week for one year. ]
XIII.
Laboratory, (Gas Engine) — Indicator practice, com-
mercial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regulation.
Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction, car-
buretters and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed by
student.
\_Two afternoons each week for one year.]
XIV.
SHOPWORK.
' (a) Woodwork—Exercises in planing, sawing, splicing,
framing, scroll - sawing and turning.
[ Three hours a week for one yeari\
(b)	Applications of Carpentry to pattern-making, cores,
etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints, cranks and
bearings.
\Three hours a week for one termi\
(c)	Foundry Practice — Setting up and drawing simple
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
and complicated patterns. lectures on heating and pour-
ing metals for different purposes. Core making.
{Three hours a week for one terrnf
(d)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
{Three hours a week for one termf
Benchwork in iron, including surface-chipping, key-
setting, draw-filing, scraping and polishing.
{Three hours a week for one year.]
(f)	Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shaping and mill-
ing machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers,
taps, twist-drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
{Three hours a week for one year.]
(g)	Gas Engine Construction—The complete working
up from rough castings and forgings of a small type of gas
engine. This is part of the thesis work and requires the
complete machining and assembling of the engine. Must
be preceded by courses XI. (a) and XI. (b).
{Three hours a week for one year.)
COURSES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEER-
ING.
I.
Applied Electricity — A course of lectures and recitations,
supplemented by laboratory practice, on the general theory
of electricity and magnetism and its application to practical
work, as follows: Setting up and testing primary and
secondary batteries, systems of call bells, electric and gas
lighting appliances, fire and burglar alarms, telegraph and
telephone lines, switchboards and accessories.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
67
Experiments with induction coils, magnets, switches,
voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers
and other measuring instruments. The study of direct
current generators and motors, arc and incandescent light-
ing systems, street railway machinery and appliances,
electric heating and forging, electrolytic processes, etc.
[Five hovrs a week for iwo terms.^
IL
Applied Electricity — Eectures and laboratory work on
the construction and testing of switches, magnets, meas-
uring instruments, induction coils, etc. The calculation of
sizes of wire and location of circuits for lighting and
power, the experimental study of alternating current
machinery and accessories.	*
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he. may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the fitting
and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally testing
for insulation, efficiency and adaptability- to special pur-
poses. This course must be preceded by Course I. Both
I. and II. are required in the Short Course in Electrical
Engineering ; they are elective for general students and
those studying telegraphy.
[Five hours a week for two terms. ]
,111.	>
Dynamo-Electric Machinery — Recitations on the phys-
ical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions and
reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points, theory
of armature winding, the mathematical theory of alternat-
ing currents, phase relations, modern forms of single phase
and multiphase generators and motors, design of trans-
formers.
[Five hours a week for two termsi\
68
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IV,
Electrical Laboratory — Practical work at wiring build-
ings for lights and power, testing circuits for insulation
and grounds, construction and operation of storage
batteries, management and care of dynamos, characteristic
curves of particular machines under different conditions,
efficiency tests of motors by absorption dynamometer
methods, alternating current dynamo and transformer
tests, the testing of storage batteries, and complete plant-
efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken.
[Azw? hours a week for iwo terms. ]
V,
Drawing—The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance, and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of
circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawings of
direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Three hours a week for two terms. ]
COURSES IN ARCHITECTURE.
I.
(a)	History of Architecture — This course comprises a
study of the early beginnings, growth and development of
Architecture. It includes Ethnography as applied to
Architectural Art, Ancient Architecture, Egyptian Archi-
tecture, Assyrian Architecture, Grecian Architecture,
Etruscan, Roman and Sassanian Architecture, Christian
Architecture, France, Belgium and Holland, Germany,
Scandinavia, England, Spain and Portugal, Italy, Saracenic
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	69
and Ancient American Architecture, Byzantine Architec-
ture.
\_Two hou^s a week for four terms.
(b)	Architectural Research—Comprises the study in
detail of the structural features, ornamentations, use and
purpose of the more noted structures, material used in the
different styles, instructing the student in everything
worthy of consideration in connection with architecture
and its practical application. The course is given by
lectures and recitations.
\Three hours a week for two terms.]
IL
( This course is preceded by Drawing; see parts I.
and II., page
The Orders of Architecture — This course is a study of
the Five Orders of Architecture and is given by lectures,
recitations and drawing. The study embraces a thorough
analysis of each Order, in which the principal and distin-
guishing features of each are clearly shown and comparisons
made. Also a study in detail of the forms and prpportions
characterizing each is made in the class room. Problems
pertaining to the Orders are given in the Drawing Room,
and detail drawings and coloring made.
\Four hours recitation a week for two terms; Four hours
drawing a week for two terms.]
III.
Design — The study of problems in architectural design,
embodying the subjects of composition and form. This
course expands from Blementary Design (second year)
to Advanced Design and Thesis Work ( fourth year), and
includes the handling of design in monumental structures,
70
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
and its application to modern buildings, such as hospitals,
theatres, municipal buildings, libraries, churches, etc.
[Four, five and ten hovers a week, for second, third and
fourth years.]
IV*
Heating and Ventilation — This course is a study of the
theory and practice of heating and ventilating public
buildings and dwelling houses. The different systems of
heating, — furnace heating, hot water, steam, etc., — are
carefully examined and studied. The radiation of heat
from surfaces, the different systems of piping, condition
of air as to moisture, amount of air required, causes and
sources of impure air, and best means adopted to secure
pure air; the necessity of good ventilation and the latest
approved methods for securing this all important feature
are some of the topics considered in this study.
[Three hovers a week for one termi\
V.
Advanced Construction Designing—This course is a
study of the properties of the building stones, iron and
steel, that are used in structures, including the cements,
paints, and preservatives in use. The methods of quarry-
ing and testing building stones, manufacturing and testing
brick and cement, the different methods of manufactur-
ing and testing iron and steel, are briefly considered.
Then the subject of foundations is given a careful study,
wherein are taught methods of ascertaining the character
and bearing power of strata below the surface; methods
and materials used in building foundations; piles and
their use in foundations ; enlarging or spreading the base
of the foundation; suitableness of foundations for struc-
tures of different classes. These are some of the subjects
studied in this course given both by lecture and text-book.
[Eight hovers a week for one termT\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	71
VI.
Theory of Arch — This course comprises a complete
study of the theory of the linear arch, wherein are
considered the nature of the loading and resulting
stresses, and the application of the results to the loaded
arch; then is studied the design of the arch, finding the
line of pressures, etc. This course is given by recitation
and dr? wing.
[Two hozcts a week for one termf
VIL
Specifications and Working Drawings — This course is
for the purpose of instructing the student to prepare
according to the best approved methods, written specifica-
tions for structures, and the necessary contracts in con-
nection with the same. It includes a study of the forms,
general features, and leading clauses, of specifications,
classifications of building materials, labor, duties of
superintendents, the best methods of making estimates,
and the common relations of owners, contractors, architects,
and superintendents. This course is given by lectures
and recitations and practical exercises in writing contracts
and specifications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VEIL
Materials—Lectures on building materials, their use,
manufacture and treatment.
[Two hours a week for one termT\
IX	.
Structural Design—Lectures and exercises on the
subject of planning various kinds of buildings and the
relation between the construction and the exigencies of a
design.
[One hour a week one terwf
a
72	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
X	.
History of Ornament — Lectures on the origin and
evolution of ornament and the application of same,
together with exercises in motive.
\_One hour a week fot one termf
XL
Roof Trusses—This course comprises a study of roof
trusses; analyzed and discussed by graphical methods,
under the three conditions of steady load, snow and wind.
\Five hours a, week for one termf
XIL
House Sanitation—This study is taught from text-book
and embraces sanitary engineering pretaining to buildings,
as follows: sewerage, water supply, lighting and ventila-
tion, plumbing work, subsoil drainage, dry foundation,
walls and cellars. Also drawings of plumbing systems
and fixtures.
\Two hour a week for two terms.]
XIIL
Thesis Work — A course of eighteen hours per week
during the second term of the last year is devoted entirely
to the preparation of the graduating thesis. The subject
in each case is selected by the Director of the Course in
Architecture and the thesis comprises all the branches
pretaining to the study of architecture in this institution.
^Eighteen hours cl week for one termf
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
73
COURSES IN ARTISTIC DRAWING*
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough founda-
tion in drawing for those who want to make Art a
profession, but the courses are so arranged as to be
accessible to other students. The system of teaching,
which is that followed in the best art schools, is
intended to develop the individuality of each student, so
that with a good understanding of the principles of art he
may interpret nature according to his own temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, object, and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer many
beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes, and the
classes are taken out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new one,
which was carefully selected at the National School of
Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
Full Figure—The Diadumenos (British Museum);
the Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full
size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically : The
Discobolus ; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michel-
angelo ; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre),
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads — Asiaticus ( Paris ); Brutus ( Rome,
the Capitol); Cato ( Rome, the Vatican ); Cicero ( Rome,
the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa (Lou-
vre); Venus (Vatican); A Centurion (Naples); Ariadne
(the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples); a Vestal
(Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters of
Niobe (Florence).	•
74
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides, there is a complete set of decorative and archi-
tectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity,
the middle ages and the Renaissance, and of elements of
the human figure (hands, feet, etc.,) from the antique,
and some anatomical pieces.'
COURSE I.
Elementary Class.
(a)	Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geomet-
rical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentels, etc. Sketching
from simple objects.
(b)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from nature leaves and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on per-
spective, direction of the principal lines in relation to the
horizon. Hlementary notions on the five orders of
architecture.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure : hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
COURSE IL
Antique Class.
(a)	Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape. Appli-
cations of perspective.	.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching
from the costumed model? Still life in water colors,
History of art,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
COURSE III
Life Class.
Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy. Anatomical
studies from the collections of Science Hall. Still life
painting in water colors and oil. Landscape painting.
Drawing for illustration.
Sketch Class — One hour a week. This class is open
also to the students in the Mechanical Drawing classes.
The students have themselves an organization, “The
Crayon Club,” the object of which is to sketch college
scenes and to do illustrative work: these sketches are
brought into class and criticized.
Class of Decorative Design—The object of this depart-
ment is to prepare students for professional work in
decorative designings of all kinds. They will take up the
study of historical ornaments and will be taught the
general principles of the arrangement of designs, and from
personal sketches }of plants and flowers will be shown the
art of making original designs for wall paper, book covers,
stained glass, carpets, interior decorations, metal plates,
etc. No particular programme is given out as the teach-
ing is purely individual.
*
COURSES IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may be
trained in Outline Drawing in pencil and pen. Then
follows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the use
7$
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
of instruments is taken up. Beginning with the instru-
ments, attention is given to accurate draughtmanship upon
plates, illustrating problems of Civil, Blectrical and
Mechanical Bngineering. This work is continued
throughout the Courses.
[Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for each
hour on the schedule^
L
Freehand—This work consists of sketching with pencil
and pen from flat copies and models of machine parts, and
freehand lettering. Later in the term, the use of instru-
ments, section-lining and lettering are taught.
[Three hours a week for one termf
IL
Projection Drawing—The work embraces the principles
of projections, methods of shop-drawing, tinting, tracing,
blue printing, line-shading and the preparation of working
drawings of complete machines. This Course must be
preceded by Course I.
[Three hours a week foy two terms
III.
Descriptive Geometry—A series of accurate plates are
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective and
isometric projections. (Students in Architecture will be
required to do advanced work in shades and shadows and
perspective.)
[One hour a week for first term, and two hours a week for
second termf
IV.
Kinematic Drawing—Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involving
university of noTre dame.	77
.the application of kinematics and the computation of
dimensions.
\Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography — Pen and colored topographical drawing,
conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken from
surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I.
\Three hours a week for one termh\
VI.	'
Masonry — Drawing and designing plans, elevations
and sections of masonry constructions, foundations, dams,
piers, abutments, culverts and arches.
\Three hours a week for one termJ\
VIL
Bridge Designing — Proceeding from simple framed
girders to complete bridge - trusses of various designs.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings.
[ 7hree hours a week for two terms. ]
VIII.
Freehand—The principles of freehand drawing in pencil
and pen from objects, and later from biological specimens,
plants, animals and microscopical preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms h\
IX.
Freehand — Advanced drawing from plants and anatom-
ical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publications.
[ Two hours a week for two termsh\
X.
Water Color — Drawing in water color from still life
and nature.
[Two hours a week for one term.^
78	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
XL
Rendering in Water Color—The rendering of architect-
ural drawings, including perspectives ;—casting of shadows,
color treatments of buildings, and handling of foreground
and background.
[7^ hours a week for one term?^
XIL
Pen and Ink — Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art; fol-
lowed by rendering of original drawings.
\One hour a week for four terms.]
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.
(Zrc the description of these courses, an “hour" 'means
two sixty-minute periods in the laboratory or one in the
lecture roomP)
L
(a)	General Chemistry — A minor Course dealing with
the general principles of the science and embracing a
study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book, Remseris Elements of Chemistry.
\Four hours a week for one term.\
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the laboratory
the work of the Lecture Course (la) and designed to
accompany it.
\One hou,r a week for one termP\
IL
(a)	General Descriptive Chemistry—Recitations and
experimental lectures treating of the fundamental princi-
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
79
pies of chemistry, and designed to meet the requirements
of the students of the Engineering Course. Text-book,
Remsen’s Briefer Course.
\Two hours a week for two terms.J
(b)	A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the needs of
Engineering students.
\One hour a week for two terms. ]
III.
(a)	Advanced Inorganic Chemistry — For Biological,
General Science and Chemistry students. Lectures and
recitations. A complete study of the elements and their
niost important compounds, following the classification
based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a thorough dis-
cussion of the theories of the science. Careful attention
is given to the technical chemical processes and industries,
and to the writing of chemical reactions. Text-book,
Newth's Inorganic Chemistry.
\Two hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	Experimental Chemistry — A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course Illa., the work consisting of the prepa-
ration by the student, of the elements and their more
typical compounds, determination of molecular weights,
verification of the fundamental laws of chemistry, etc.
During the latter part of the Course, special attention is
given to the characteristic reactions of the metals and to
the principles of chemical analysis. Text-book, Thorp.
\Two hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.]
IV.
Qualitative Analysis — The work of this Course com-
prises, ’in the laboratory, the study of the reactions
involved in the separation and detection of the more
80	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
common inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts,
mixtures of salts, and complex substances such as earths,
ores, ashes, etc. Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by
lectures.
^Five hours a week, with recitation, for one term.\
Quantitative Analysis — A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically, and volume-
trically. Complete analysis of a number of simple salts,
like Barium Chloride, with partial analysis of substances
such as steel, lye, drinking-water, etc. Reference-book,
Fresenius.
\_Five hours a week, with recitation, for one termk\
(a)	Organic Chemistry—Lectures and recitations A
systematic study of the compounds of Carbon by the
student and the investigation of their properties. This
Course may be taken without the accompanying Labora-
tory work. Text-book, Remsen.
fFive hours a week for one termk\
(b)	Experimental Organic Chemistry—A Course
fitted to accompany Course Via., involving the prepara-
tion by the student in the laboratory of the most important
and typical organic compounds and the investigation of
their properties. Ultimate organic analysis. Text-book,
Gattermann.
\Five hours a week for one termi\
VIL
Urinary Analysis and Toxicology—A Course of Labor-
atory exercises in the methods employed in the detection
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	81
and estimation of the constituents of the urine, and of the
alkaloids and principal organic poisons. Text-book,
Schimpf.
■	\_Fvoe hours a week J or one termC\
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis — An advanced course,
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses in gas analysis, water analysis, sugar analysis,
commercial organic analysis, oils and fats, etc., at the
option of the student.
\Five to fifteen hours a week for both terms.]
’ IX.
Organic Chemistry — Chiefly laboratory work. An
advanced course, intended for students specializing in
chemistry.
\Ten to fifteen hours a week for both terms.]
X.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry—In this course, the
chemical bases and their compounds are considered, with
special reference to their importance in Pharmacy and
Materia Medica. Text-book, Sadtler’s and Trimble’s
Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
\_Fiwe hours a week for first termi\
XI.
Electrochemistry — Lectures and recitations supplemented
by laboratory work. Theory of the principles of electro-
chemistry and their application to the quantitative determi-
nation and separation of metals and the preparation of
chemical elements and compounds. ^Text-books, Classen
and Lupke.	*
\Five hours a week for one term^\
82
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
XIL
History of Chemistry — The subject is divided into
topics of special interest in the development of the science.
These are discussed at length, together with the biog-
raphies of the men who aided in their development.
\Three hours a week for one termh\
XIIL
Physical Chemistry—Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work, treating of solutions, chemical dynamics, thermo-
chemistry, etc.
[Five hours a week for one termf\
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry—Lectures, recitations and labora-
tory work. The consideration of chemical manufactures,
fuels etc. and the preparation in the laboratory of
chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
[Five hour a week for two terms. ]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative — Mostly laboratory work in
special methods for gravimetric and volumetric determina-
tions of inorganic substances.
[Five hours a week for one termk\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. ' .	83
COURSES IN PHYSICS
L
Physics — A complete course of recitations and lectures,
including mechanics, heat, sound, light,- electricity, and
magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experiments.
[Five hours a week for one term^\
IL
General Physics — In this course there is a more ex-
tended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to physical
phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy in the
mathematical work and in the statements of the principles
involved. lectures and recitations.
[ Three hours a week for two terms.]
IIL
Physical Problems — The application of mathematics in
physical work. Measurements of length, mass and time.
Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and
magnetism. The work is done in the laboratory and the
student is taught to depend on his own resources and to
check his results.
\Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV	.
Physical Laboratory—Special advanced work in heat,
light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism. Ac-
curacy in observations and in the calculation and recording
of results is required. Students may specialize here
according to the college course which they are following.
*This course must be preceded by Courses II. and III. For
list of apparatus see page 14.
\Three hours a week for two terms. ]
84
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN BOTANY.
I	.
Botany — Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed. The develop-
ment of the embryo and the processes of pollination and
fertilization. The study of the vegetable cell, of its pro-
ducts, of cell formation, of plant tissues, and the various
physiological phenomena. The structure and reproduction
of the Algae, Fungi, Mosses and Ferns. The analysis of
Phanerogams occupies the time during the spring months,
and the student is made familiar with the local flora. Text-
-books, Bastin’s College Botany and Gray’s Manual.
\Five hours a week for two terms.]
IL
Botanical Laboratory — Supplementary to Course I.
Special work on the Thallophyta and Bryophyta. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become more familiar with their
morphology, structure, etc. This course is to accompany
or be preceded by Course I. Provision is also made in this
course for Pharmacy students to take a special laboratory
course in Pharmaceutical Botany.
\_One hour a week for one terml\
IIL
Botany — Lectures, recitations and laboratory work.
The work in this course is essentially the same as that laid
out in Strasburger’s text-book of Botany. Special work is’
required in one particular group of plants. Herbarium
study is encouraged as well as the collecting and preparing
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
*5
of plants for preservation. During the spring months
frequent excursions are made into the neighboring fields
and woods, and the local aquatic and land flora are collected
and studied.
• [Four recitation and two laboratory hours a week
for two terms.]
COURSES IN ZOOLOGY.
.	I.
Zoology — Lectures and recitations. General ideas on
the animal kingdom. Animals and plants defined. The
homology and analogy between the organs and parts of
animals. The morphology, classification, structure, de-
velopment and relationship of the types of vertebrates and
invertebrates. Text-book, Nicholson.
[Five hours a week for one termJ\
IL
Invertebrate Zoology — Lectures, recitations, and labora-
tory work. In this course there is an extended treatment
of Invertebrates. Dissection of the different types of higher
forms. Careful notes and drawings are made from these
dissections. Opportunity is given to carry on systematic
work on the different groups contained in the University
Museum. Text-book, Thompson.
[Three recitation and two laboratory hours a week
for one termf
III.
Vertebrate Zoology — Lectures, recitations and labor-
atory work. This course consists of a thorough study of
86
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
the morphology, structure and classification of the verte-
brated animals. A type from each group of the vertebrates
is selected for dissection and comparative study. In the
latter part of this course the student is required to make a
special study of Mammalian Osteology from prepared skele-
tons in the University Museum. Text-books, Thompson,
and Parker & Haswell.
{Three recitation and two laboratory hours a week
for one termf
•	IV.
Mammalian Anatomy — This course has been specially
provided for students preparing themselves for a medical
course. The work consists of demonstrations and thor-
ough dissections on the anatomy of the cat or some selected
Mammal.
{Two laboratory hours a week for six weeks. ]
V.
Comparative Embryology—Lectures and laboratory
work. A study of the developmental history of inverte-
brates, including a comparison of the germ-cell and sperm-
cell in different types of animals. The maturation and
fertilization of the ovum. Mitosis and segmentation.
The development of the Ectoderm, Mesoderm, and En-
doderm compared in the types of invertebrates, differentia-
tion of tissues, development of the embryo, etc. Spe-cial
work on the embryology of a vertebrate — Eish, Bird or
Mammal.
{Three hours a week for one termf
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
COURSES IN GENERAL BIOLOGY.
L
Cytology — Lectures and laboratory work. History of
the cell, cell structure, organization, activity, and mitosis.
IL
General Biology — Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. The forms of animals and plants compared as to
structure, function, and relationship, of parts. Animal and
plant dissection. Biogenesis and Abiogenesis, Homogenesis
and Heterogenesis. The alternation of generation in dif-
ferent forms of animals and plants worked out. The
theories of evolution are discussed in this course. Text-
book, Parker. [Courses I. and II. together, three laboratory
hours a week for two terms
COURSES IN MICROSCOPY.
I.
Microscopy — Lecturesand laboratory work. Refraction
and dispersion of light and illumination. The index of
refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for
advanced work; immersion and adjustible objectives,
camera lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers,
etc. Special work in photo-micrography. Text-book,
Gage.	•
[Three hours a week for one termly
88
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
IL
Micro - Chemistry — Laboratory work. The preparation
of micro-chemical reagents and their application in testing;
fixing, hardening, staining, clearing, and mounting tissues
and organs.
\One laboratory hour a week for one temi\
COURSES IN HUMAN ANATOMY.
I	.
Human Histology — Laboratory work and demonstra-
tions. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Courses in Human Physiology.
IL
Human Histology—Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work. The work covers a thorough course in Normal
Histology, with the methods of hardening, staining, em-
bedding, section cutting, and mounting of tissues. Careful
work on the nervous system — brain and spinal cord,
termination of nerve fibres, etc. Drawings made from
each preparation. Text-book, Pier sol.
\Two laboratory hours a week for one terrnf
IIL
Human Anatomy—Lectures and recitations. Osteology
and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular, vascular and
nervous systems and of the organs of special sense. The
anatomy of the viscera. • Text-book, Gray.
\_Three hours a week for four terms.

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	89
COURSES IN HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY.
Physiology — Lectures, recitations and laboratory work.
The study of the human skeleton including the physiology
. and hygiene of the bones. The action, relation, structure,
and hygiene of the muscular, digestive, circulatory, and
excretory systems. The anatomy and structure of the
nervous system. All the work is. supplemented by experi-
ments and microscopic examinations made by the student.
The demonstrations are facilitated by the use of models,
charts and manakins. Material for dissection is introduced
into the work in order to give a more correct and fixed
understanding of the study. This course is to be accom-
panied by Course I. under Courses in Human Anatomy.
Text-book, Thornton’s Physiology.
\Three laboratory hours a week for one termJ\
IL
Hygiene—Lectures on personal, domestic and municipal
hygiene.
\One hour a week for one term^
in-	,
Physiology — Lectures, recitations and experimental
work. A more advanced course than Course I. on
alimentation, deglutition, stomach and intestinal digestion,
action of bile and pancreatic juice, absorption, properties
of lymph and chyle, secretion, excretion, animal heat, and
its sources. The physiological divisions and structure of
the nervous system. Motor and sensory nerves. Physio-
logical anatomy of the spinal cord. General arrangement
and function of the sympathetic system, etc.
\Two hours a week for two terms.]
90	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSE IN BACTERIOLOGY.
Lectures and Laboratory Work—Lectures on the form,
structure, reproduction and classification of Bacteria. The
relations of bacteria to diseases, etc. The principles of
sterilization, thermal and chemical, are pointed out. The
early part of the laboratory work is occupied in the prepara-
tion of the various culture-media and in studying pure
cultures of certain non-pathogenic bacteria in these media.
Observations on the microscopic characteristics of bacteria
and special attention to the microscopic technique required
in Bacteriological work. Later on in the course some time
is devoted to practice in isolation and identification of
pathogenic bacteria. Bmphasis is given to the detection of
pathogenic germs by the various staining processes.
Inoculation of animals. Bacteriogical investigation of
water, air and soil. Text-book, Abbot’s Principles of
Bacteriology.
\Three laboratory hours a week for one termk\
COURSES IN GEOLOGY.
I.
Mineralogy—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory work.
A study of crystallography and the classification of
minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory and
museum in the determination of minerals, especially the
ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Moses & Parsons.
\Three hours a week for one termh\
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
9?
Assaying;—Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assaying
of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Ricketts.
\_Two laboratory hours a week for one term[\ .
III.
Geology—Lectures and recitations. The study of the
general features of the earth. The material composing the
accessible parts of the earth. The arrangement of the
material in rocks. The causes of geological changes. The
history of the earth and the various forms of life that
existed in the different periods of successive geological
ages. Text-book, Dana.
\Five hours a week for one terml\
COURSES IN PHARMACY.
Elements of Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations on the
art and science of Pharmacy, and demonstrations of the
various Pharmaceutical processes. Text-book, Remington’s
Practice of Pharmacy.
[Three hotirs a week for two terms. ]
IL
Galenical Pharmacy — A- laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the manu-
facture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia, and of unofficial and N. F. preparations.
[Five hour a week for two terms.]
92
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy—Laboratory, demonstrations and
recitations. A thorough, course in the preparation and
testing of Pharmaceutical and Technical Chemicals.
[Az'-X hours a week for one term.^
IV*
General Pharmacy — A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
{Two hours a week for two terms. ]
V.
Magistral Pharmacy—Includes the manifold methods
of extemporaneous Pharmacy with consideration of incom-
patibility, posology, and the principles of Blegant Phar-
macy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
{Three hours a week for one termi\
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry—Chiefly assaying, testing
and manufacturing. Some attention is given, however,
to toilet and commercial preparations with a view to the
invention and development-of original formulas.
{Five hours a week for one term7\
VIL
General Pharmacy—Pharmaceutical analysis and assay-
ing, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectroscopic estima-
tions. Incompatibilities and methods of manufacture.
{Five hours a week for one termi\
VIII.
Materia Medica, Pharmacognosy? and Therapeutics —
I. Materia Medica—A detailed consideration of medi-
cinal substances, their constituents and use.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
IL Pharmacognosy — The identification of drugs by
their physical properties with special reference to quality.
III. Therapeutics — With reference to Therapeutic
action, dose, and antidote, drugs will be studied in groups
as well as individually.
\Two hours a week for one year.~\
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic — This work embraces a
study of Weights and Measures, Percentage, Relationship
of Systems, Reducing and Enlarging Formulas, Allegation
and Chemical Problems.
\_One hour a week for one termb\
COURSES IN MUSIC.
FIRST YEAR.
I.
Violin — Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer.
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte—Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School. Studies
by Eoeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas and
easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke and Mozart.
fug end albzcm and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
III.
Voice - Production — Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breath-control. Articulation. Text-books: Shakespeare's
Art of Singing. Part I.; Kofler’s Art of Breathing;
Studies by Bassini; English Songs. '
Vocal, Sight Reading — Elementary Theory of Music.
Intervals, and Ear-Training. Choir Practice.
94	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
'	IV*
Organ—Rink’s Organ School. Eugene Thayer’s Studies,
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR.
la*
Violin — Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont, Sonatas
and pieces by Tarfini, Bach, Beethoven, and Mozart.
Ila.
Pianoforte — Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert, Ee-
couppy, Cramer and Krause, Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s Preludes, Fugues and Inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann and Schubert.	.
Illa*
Voice-Production — Advanced Breathing Exercises.
Study of the Chest and Falsetto registers. Stroke of the
Glottis. Text-Books: Shakespeare’s A rt of Singing, Parts
II. and III.; Studies from Italian Operas; French and
English Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading—Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in Operatic Chorus-work.
IVa*
Organ—Schneider-Warren’s Pedal Shtdies. Easy sona-
tas by Mendelssohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes and
Fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.	•
V*
Harmony—Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
ization of melodies. Harmonizing from figured bass.
Text-books, Goetschius’ Tone Relations. Eogier’s Harmony.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
95
THIRD YEAR,
IE
Violin — Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alard, Wieniawski. 'Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Viewxtemps, Mendelssohn, Dvorak.
HE
Pianoforte— Gradus ad Parnassum, Clementi-Tausig.
Das Wohl Temperirte Klawier by Bach. English and
French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Haberbier and Henselt.
Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven, Weber, Men-
delssohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
HIE '
Voice-Production—Study of the Trill, Mordent, Grup-
petto, etc. Messa di Voce.
IVE
Organ — Sonatas, Preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert Pieces by Haendel, Merkel, Salome,
Whiting, Best, Rheinberger.
Va,
Harmony — ( Counterpoint), Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon.
Fugue.
■	FOURTH YEAR,
Ic. *
Violin — Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces by
Beethoven, Brahms, Bruch, Joachim and others.
He,
Pianoforte—Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos, and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Eiszt.
96	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
IIIc.
Organ — The greater Preludes, Fantasies and Fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Guilment and Saint - Saens.
IVc.
Harmony—(Composition.) Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the Sonata, Rondo, etc. Practical application
in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on the Viola, Flute, Piccolo,
Cornet, Trombone, Guitar and Mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of play-
ing in the University Orchestra and Band.
THE SINGING CLASS.
There is an organization of musical students open to
those only taking lessons in vocal music; the choir is
selected from the members of this class.
Requirements for the Degree of Bachelor of Music.
i.	The candidate must have studied music in the
University during the last year of his course.
2.	He must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of
four instruments mentioned in the courses described above,
and a practical mastery of one of them.
3.	He must pass a written examination in Harmony,
Counterpoint and Composition.
4.	He must submit to the examiner two original
compositions: (a) a fugue for full orchestra, or for four
voices with independent orchestral accompaniment; (b) a
composition in the free form (sonata or rondo) for piano-
forte, or a trio (pianoforte, violin and violincello).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	97
EVIDENCES OF CHRISTIANITY.
All Catholic Students are obliged to attend the Courses
in Evidences of Christianity.
The text-book used in the Senior year is Spalding’s
Church History—lectures on Apologetics.
In the Junior year, Hand-book of Christian Religion,
by Wilmers, is used.'
A two-years’ course in Exposition of Christian Doctrine
{Moral} precedes the Junior course.
In the Preparatory School, Bible History and Advanced
Catechism {O'Brien} are used.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGIATE COURSES.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admission
to the University are held at Notre Dame in September,
at the beginning of the Tall term.
Certificates of work done in public or private schools
will not be accepted instead of examinations, unless the
applicant has passed the final examination after a full
course in his school, and the University Faculty are
satisfied with the standing of the School.
Graduate students of High Schools that are fully accreditea
to the State Universities, will by admitted without examina-
tion to the Freshman year of any course to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Applicants for advanced standing that present certificates
from other colleges or universities may be received at the
discretion of the Faculty with or without examination as
regards particular cases.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
No student will be received as a candidate for the degree
of Bachelor after the beginning of the Senior year unless
he passes an examination in the Metaphysics and Bthics
already studied by the Senior class of the University.
No student will be admitted to any course of the Senior
year zintil all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students that are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences
of Religion.
CONDITIONAL ADMISSION TO FRESHMAN
CLASSES.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations in •
one or more of the subjects required for admission to any
Collegiate Course may, at the discretion of the Faculty,
be admitted to his class conditionally, to make up his
deficiency by extra study 'within one school year. Only
when the conditions are removed will the student be
admitted to full standing in his class.
ADMISSION TO ADVANCED STANDING.
Candidates for admission to ' advanced classes in any
courses are' required to pass, in addition to the usual
entrance examinations, an examination in the work already
done by the classes they desire to enter. The additional
subjects may be found in the programme of courses.
I.	School of Arts and Letters*
IL School of Science.’
III.	School of Engineering.
IV.	School of Law.
IOO	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF ARTS AND LETTERS.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
English — Part of the examination time is given for an-
swering questions upon books required to be read in the
preparatory course in English (See page 164); the re-
mainder for writing an essay.
Latin-—Grammar, complete; Caesar; four books of the
Gallic War * Cicero; four orations against Catiline;
Vergil; Aeneid, six books ; translation at sight of passages
from Cicero and Caesar; translation of English into Latin
based on the text of the author.
Greek — ( Tor Classical Students only ) Grammar, Ety-
mology, and general rules of Syntax; Xenophon ;
Anabasis, four books ; Homer, at least three books; prose
composition based on text.
History — A-general knowledge of the outlines of Greek
and Roman History and of Mediaeval and Modern History,
as set out in the text used in the high schools and
academies of the country.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Algebra — The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry — Plane and Solid including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Zoology—Elementary.
Physiology — Martin’s Human Body, or an equivalent.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IOI
Botany — Elementary.
Chemistry — Elements of inorganic chemistry, as given
in high schools of good standing.
*
Physics — Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures illustrated by experi-
ments. and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and'Chute’s or Gage’s. Eaboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.
French and German — A three year’s study of either
German or French and one year of French or German is
required for entrance to the course in English and the
course in History and Economics. Students that begin
French in the second preparatory year will take up German
in the fourth preparatory year and continue it for two years
in the college course. A like regulation holds for those
that start German in1 the second preparatory. Classical
students present a year of French or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation of
ordinary German or French prose : an ability to translate,
rather than accurate grammatical knowledge is expected.
4
102
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed in the Classical Course,
(DEGREE: A. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term. i	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin, - - -	5	39	I.	Latin, - - -	5	39	II.
Greek, - - -	4	35	I.	Greek, - - -	4	35	II.
English, - -	4	4i	I.	English, - -	4	41	I.
History, - -	4	45	I.	History, - -	4	45	I.
Biocution, - > -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	39	III.	Latin, - - -	5	39	IV.
Greek, - - -	4	35	III.	Greek, - - -	4	35	IV.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
History, - -	3	45	II.	History, - -	3	45	II.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.	Philosophy, -	5	31	I.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	40	V.	Latin, ~	“	5	40	VI.
Greek, - - -	5	35	V.	Greek, - - -	5	36	VI.
English, - -	4	42	III.	English, - -	4	42	III.
Philosophy, -	5	31	II.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
Economics, -	4	46	I.	Elective, - -	5		
SENIOR YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	40	VII.	Latin, - - -	5	41	VIII.
Greek, - - -	5	37	VII.	Greek, - - -	5	38	VIII.
English, - -	4	42	IV.	English, - -	4	42	IV.
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
9
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
103
Studies Prescribed in the English Course*
(DEGREE: EITT. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		^Page	Course			Page	Course
English, - -	4	41	I.	English, - -	4	41	I.
Latin, - - -	5	39	I.	Latin, - - -	5	39	IL
French or - -	3	48	II.	French or - -	3	48	II.
German, - -	3	51	II.	German, - -	3	5i	II.
History, - -	4	45	I.	History, - -	4	45	I.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	H.
Latin, - - -	5	39	III.	Latin, - - -	5	39	IV.
French or -	2	49	III.	French or - -	2	49	III.
German, - -	2	5i	III.	German, - -	2	5i	III.
History, - -	3	45	II.	History, - -	3	45	II.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.
' JUNIOR YEAR.
English, - -	4	42	III.	English, - -	4	42	III.
Latin, - - -	5	40	V.	Latin, - - -	5	40	VI.
Philosophy, -	5	31	II.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	H.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.
History, - -	5	45	III.	History, - -	5	45	III.
Elective - -	3			Elective, - -	3		
SENIOR YEAR.
English, - -	4	42	IV.	English, - -	4	42	IV.
Latin, - - -	5	40	VII.	Latin, - - -	5	4i	VIII.
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
Economics, -	4	46	I.	History, - -	5	46	IV. b.
Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	VIII.
I
104
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE SAME.
Course in History and Economics.
(DEGREE: PH. B.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History, - -	6	45	I.	History - -	6	45	I.
English, - -	4 '	41	I.	English, - -	4	41	I.
French or - -	3	48	II.	French or - -	3	48	II.
German, - -	3	51	II.	German, - -	3	51	II.
Spanish, - -	4	49	I.	Spanish, - -	4	49	I.
Polit’l Science,	4	46	I.	History, - -	4	46	IV. a
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
History, - -	5	45	II. a	History - -	5	45	II. a
Polit’l Science,	3	47	II.	Polit’l Science,	3	47	II.
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
German or - -	2	5i	III.	German or - -	2	5i	III.
French, - -	2	49	III.	French, - - -	2	48	IL
Elocution - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution - -	2	44	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.
History, - -	9	45	II.bill.	History - -	9	45	Il.blll
Polit’l Science,	4	47	III.	Polit’l Science,	4	47	IV.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	II.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	11.
English - -	4	42	III.	English, - -	4	42	in.
Elocution, - ■■	2	44	VIII.	Elocution - -	2	44	VIII.
SENIOR YEAR.
History, - - Polit’l Science,	3 6	46 47	IV. b V. VI. VII.	History, - - Polit’l Science,	3 6	46 47	IV. b VI. VII VIII,
Philosophy, -	5	32	III.	Philosophy, -	5	33	IV.
English, - -	4	42	IV.	English, - -	4	42	IV.
Elocution, - -	2	44	VIII.	Elocution, -	2	44	•VIII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSE IN JOURNALISM.
This is strictly a post-graduate course and is open only
to those who have completed the Course in History and
Economics described on page 104. The purely academic
training afforded by that Course is here supplemented by
a year’s practical experence in newspaper work under the
immediate supervision of an experienced journalist.
Abundant opportunity for practice is offered by the news-
papers of Chicago ( all of which have regular correspon-
dents at the University) and of other large cities. In
addition to the routine work of this Course, each student is
expected to contribute to special departments in newspapers
and magazines, and diplomas will not be issued to those
who have failed to find a market for at least some of their
work. The classes in this Course are :
Journalism—Lectures and recitations on the history of
journalism. Critical comparative study of home and foreign
newspapers. The law of newspaper libel. Copyright and
. postal regulations. Daily exercises in reporting, and fre-
quent exercises in editorial writing ; department work ;
musical and dramatic criticism and book reviews. Editing
copy, proofreading and “making up” a newspaper.
Lectures on topics of current interest, and exercises in the
treatment of them. Required reading of Dana’s Art of
Newspaper Making, Shuman’s Steps into Journalism,
Hudson’s History of Journalism, Luse’s Waiting for the
Press, any good treatise on the law, libel and slander, and
the biographies of famous journalists. Discussion of the
business side of newspaper work, advertising, circulation,
etc.
Theology — Wilhelm and Scannell’s Manual of Dog-
matic Theology.	a
Phonography and Typewriting — Ordinary Course.
Political History of the 19th Century*
106	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF SCIENCE.
Three courses are given, one a course in General Science,
one in Chemistry, and one course in Biology.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION.
Candidates for the Freshman class of these courses must
be prepared to pass an examination in the branches named
below, unless satisfactory assurance of their proficiency is
given.
Physical Geography, Elementary Zoology, Botany,
and Civics.
History — General outlines of Ancient, Mediaeval and
Modern History.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution 'of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy—Descriptive.
Chemistry — A course of at least fifty experiments in
elementary chemistry actually performed by the pupil.
German — A two years course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English, and
easy English sentences into German,
a
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	107
preparatory courses in English (See page 164); the
remainder for writing an essay.
Physics—Elementary. The prepararion on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
*
and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.
Latin—Grammar, complete; Caesar: four books of the
Gallic War ; Translation of English into Latin based on
text of this author.
CHEMICAL LABORATORY FEES.
Chemistry I., VII., each...........$	5.00
Chemistry II, III., (e) IV., V., VI., (9) VIII.,
IX., XL, XIII., each............... 10.00
108	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in General Science*
The Course in General “Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit him-
self, either for further study of a technical or professional
kind, or’ for the activities of business life. The Natural
and Physical Sciences constitute the primary studies of
this Course. Grouped about these are those studies in
English, mathematics, and Modern Eanguages, which
experience has shown to be necessary for the intelligent
pursuit of science and for the attainment of the object of
the Course.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student during the Sophomore Year and two during the
Junior Year.
The scientific work of the Senior Year is elective.
Advanced Courses may be chosen in Physics, Chemistry,
Biology, or Mathematics.
Every candidate for a dregree in the Course of General
Science is required to submit, at least six weeks before the
final examination, a written thesis upon some subject
connected with the elective work of the Senior Year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the professor in
the course elected. The thesis shall contain no less than
six thousand words, and must be satisfactory in matter
and treatment.
Students that complete the required courses, pass the
final examination, and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science. -	•
In the schedule an “hour” means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
(The facilities for instruction in this Course are described on pages
13 and 17. For Laboratory Fees, see pages 107-112-118.)
University of noTre dame.
109
Studies Prescribed in Course in General Science
(DEGREE: B. S.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology, - .	5	85	I.	Zoology, - -	5	85	I.
Chemistry, - -	4	79	III.	Chemistry, - -	4	79	III.
Algebra, - -	5	5i	I.	Anal. Geo'm., -	5	52	II.
French,- - -	5	48	I.	French, - - -	5	48	I.
Drawing - -	2	76	I.	Drawing, - -	4	76	II.
Physiology, -	5	89	I.	Physiology, -	5	89	I.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany, - - -	5	84	I.	Botany, - - -	6	84	i.,n
Chemistry, - -	5	79	IV.	Physics, - - -	5	83	II.III.
Physics, - - -	5	83.	II. III.	Calculus,	-	5	52	IV.
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Drawing, - -		76	II.
Drawing, - -	2	76	II.	Elective, - -	5		
JUNIOR TEAR.
Geology, - -	2	’ 90 <	I.	Geology, - -	5	91	III.
Astronomy, -	3	■ ’60	I.	Astronomy, -	3	60	I.
English, - -	4	4i	I.	English, - -	4	4i	I.
Elective, - -	5			Elective, - -	5		
Philosophy, -	5	31	I.	Philosophy, -	5	31	I.
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy, - , Three Electives in Science, - French or Ger. Scientific ‘ Readings, -	t 5 9-15 1	3i	II.	Philosophy, - Three Electives in Science, - French or Ger. Scientific Readings, -	5 9-15 1	3i	n.
IIO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Chemistry.
This course is intended for those students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of Chemistry as may fit them for
professional work either in the laboratory or class room.
Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule of work
admits in the Junior and Senior year of some elective
study.
Bvery candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required to
write an essay in the Junior year on some subject con-
nected with Chemistry and must submit, at least four
weeks before the final examination, a written thesis on
work covered in his Senior Year. This thesis must contain
at least three thousand words. •
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In this schedule, an “hour” means two sixtv minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation. For
laboratory fees see page icy.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ill
I
Studies Prescribed in Course in Chemistry.
(degree: b. s.)	’
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Chemistry, -	5	79	III.	Chemistry, -	5	79	III.
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	'Anal. Geom. -	5	52	II.
French, - -		48	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
Physics, - -	5	83	II.,III.	Physics, - -	5	83	IL,III.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Chemistry, -	5	79	IV.	Chemistry, -	5	80	V.
Calculus, * - -	5	■52	III.	Calculus, - -	5	52	IV.
Mineralogy, -	3	90	I.	Geology, - - Chemistry, -	5	9i	III.
Chemistry, -	5	80	VI.		5	81	IX.
Gas Analysis,	3	81	VIII.				
JUNIOR YEAR.
Chemistry, -	5	82	XIII	Chemistry, -	7	81 82	XI. XIII
Chemistry				Chemistry			
Elective, -	5			Elective, -	5		
Elective, - -	5			Assaying, - -	3	9i	II.
English, - -	5	41	I.	English, - -	5	4i	I.
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy, - History of Chemisty, - Elective, - - Scientific Readings in German and French, - -	5 3 5 2	31 82	II. XII.	Philosophy, - Chemistry Elective, - Scientific Readings in German and French, - - Thesis, - - -	5 5 2	3i	II.
112
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to the Course in Biology.
The course in Biology has been designed for students
that wish to devote their time largely to biological pursuits,
either as an immediate preparation for the study of
medicine or veterinary science, or with a view to teaching
or otherwise engaging in biological research. The students
in this course are required to prepare an' essay during the
first term of the Junior Year on some subject pertaining to
biology. Every candidate for a degree must submit a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings. This
thesis must be presented two weeks before the final
examinations. Students not preparing themselves for a
medical course may substitute for the advanced Courses in
Anatomy and Physiology equivalents from either Mathe-
matics, Physics, or English Literature.
LABORATORY FEES.
Biological Laboratory — Biology II.............................$ 5.00
Biological Laboratory—Zoology III., IV., V.......... 5.00
Botanical Laboratory—for Botany I. and II........... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I. and II.................... 2.50
Bacteriological Laboratory — Bacteriology.......... 10.00
Use of Apparatus in Biological Laboratory for Courses	v
in Zoology and Botany in Preparatory Department
each.............................................  2.50
(The facilities for instruction in this course are described on
page 17.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
113
Studies Prescribed in the Course in Biology
(DEGREE: B .S.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		* SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology, - -	5	85	I.	Zoology - -	5	85	I.
Chemistry,	4	79	III.	Chemistry,	4-	79	III.
Microscopy, -	3	87	I.	English, - •	4	41	I.
English, - -	4	41	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
French, - •	5	48	I.	Microscopy, -	2	88	II.
Drawing, - -	2	77	VIII.	Drawing, - -	2	77	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Physiology,	5	89	I.	Physiology,	5	89	I.
Botany, - -	5	84	I.	Botany, - - -	6	84	I. II.
Gen. Biology, -	6	87	I., II.	Gen. Biology,	6	87	I. II.
Chemistry,	5	79	IV.	Chemistry,	5	80	V.
Drawing - -	2	77.	IX.	Drawing, - -	2	77	IX.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anatomy, - -	3	88	III.	Anatomy, - -	3	88	III.
Bacteriology, -	6	90	I.	Botany, - -	8	84	III.
Geology, - -	2	9°	I.	Geology, - -	5	9i	III.
Botany, - -	8	84	III.	Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.
Philosophy, -	5	3i	I.	Chemistry,	5	80	VI.
SENIOR YEAR.
Anatomy, - -	7	88	II. III.	Anatomy, - -	3	88	III.
Physiology,	5	89	II.III.	Physiology, -	5	89	III.
'Zoology, - - Thesis, - - -	7	85	II.	Zoology, - - Thesis, - - -	IO	85-86	III. IV., V
114
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
SCHOOL OF PHARMACY.
There are two courses in Pharmacy; one of two years,
leading to the degree Graduate in Pharmacy, {Ph. G.);
and another of three years leading to the degree,
Pharmaceutical Chemist, {Ph. Cd)
ADMISSION*
Applicants for admission to the Short Course must be
18 years of age; and must pass an examination in the
Common English branches. A certificate of admission to
a high school will be accepted instead of an examination.
The requirements for the long course are the same,
except that an examination in Latin and Algebra as far as
logarithms must be passed. Satisfactory evidence of hav-
ing spent two years in a high school of the best grade will
be accepted instead of an examination.
METHODS
The subjects studied in this department are intended to
impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult and
complicated processes.
Special attention is given to the little details, which are
essential to success, in any professional work and par-
ticularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully drilled
in store etiquette, business hints, prescription work, and
dispensing-. Neatness and order in all the operations and
extreme care in the manufacture of preparations are
required throughout the course.
Attention is given to Animal Bxtracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal
Medication.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	115
EQUIPMENT.
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store in
which the student obtains practically the same experience
that he would get in actual business.
A second year student is placed in full charge. He is
required to furnish supplies for the department, order
material, write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then
at the end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute a very
important part of the equipment. Under supervision of
the instructor each student is required to read them and to
compound those requiring special manipulation. The
reading room is supplied with all the leading pharmaceuti-
cal journals and books of reference. The Pharmacognosy
Room contains specimens of all the official and a great
many unofficial drugs for study and identification.
THESIS.
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a subject
within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of this work
are carefully recorded and must be typewritten and
presented to the faculty as a requirement for graduation.
LABORATORY FEES.
In addition to the regular tuition fee covering cost of
board, room, etc., the student is required to pay:
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II................$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II. and IV...... 2o’.oo
harmaceutical Laborator}? EI. and VII....,. 40.00
P
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Courses in Pharmacy*
(DEGREES: Ph. G., Ph. C.)
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy, - -	3	91	’ I.	Pharmacy,	6	91	I., II.
Arithmetic, -	5	93	IX.	Physics, - - Chemistry, - -	5	172	F.
Botany, - - -	5	84	I.		4	8l	X.
Microscopy, -	3	87	I.	Botany, - - -	5	84	I.
Chemistry,	5	78	I.	Materia Medica	2	-9293	VIII. (1, 2.)
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy, - - Chemistry, - - Materia Medica Bacteriology, -	8 5 3 3	92 79 92 9o	III.	IV. IV. VIII. 0, 3.) I.	Pharmacy, Chemistry, Materia Medica Physiology, -	10 5 2 5	92 80 , 93 89'	IV. V., VI. V. VIII. (2, 3.) I.
THIRD YEAR.
Pharmacy, Chemistry - - Geology, - - Thesis, - - Elective, - -	5 6 2 2 5	92. 80 90	VI . VI. I.	Pharmacy, - - Chemistry, - - Toxicology and Urinary Analy’s Thesis, - - - Elective, - -	5 5 5 2 5	92 80 80	VII. VI. VII.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
117
SCHOOL OF ENGINEERING.
Three regular courses are offered ; one leading to the
degree of Civil Engineer, one to the degree of Mechanical
Engineer, and another to the degree of Mechanical En-
gineer in Electrical Engineering.
A special Short Course in Electrical Engineering is
offered to accommodate those that wish to fit themselves
for practical work in the shortest possible time.
A student should not take up any one of these courses
unless he has a natural aptitude for mathematics. A
liking for machinery and tools is of great advantage in
Mechanical and Electrical Engineering.
Special attention is given to the practical work of En-
gineering in the laboratories and draughting rooms. The
. exercises in calculating, designing and constructing are
made to conform as nearly as possible to the best modern
engineering practice.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work.
( For list of available apparatus, see pages 13-19 )
In the schedule of studies one hour credit is given for
each recitation or lecture which requires from one to two
hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time'in laboratory
work or drawing are required for each hour on the
schedule.
Il8	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fee for marticulation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 28, the regular
students in the three Engineering Courses are required to
pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of materials
consumed and the deterioration of the apparatus used, as
follows :
LABORATORY FEES.
Physical laboratory III.....................$	5.00
Physical Laboratory IV..................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory, L, II............... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory V..................   20.00
Shopwork, all four-hour courses per term..... 15.00
Chemistry 1.................................. 5.00
Chemistry II., IV., V., each................ 10.00
ADMISSION.
Candidates for admission to the Freshman Year must be
at least 17 years of age. For, advanced standing there
must be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
Written examinations on the following subjects re-
quired for admission will be held at the University on the
first two days of the Fall Term at the beginning of the
school year.
Arithmetic — Complete, including the metric system of
weights and measures. Special importance is attached to
accuracy in calculations and the practical application of
rules.	•
Algebra—Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadric equations, including everything up to logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises by other authors.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	119
Geometry — Plane and Solid, including the solutionaof
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry — Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Civics — Elementary.
History—General outlines of Ancient, Mediaeval and
Modern History.
Geography—Physical, as much as is contained in the
ordinary text-books.
Physics — Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is recommended,
but is not required.
■ Chemistry—The elements of Inorganic Chemistry, as
given in a high school.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology — As given in elemen-
tary text-books.
Modern Language —Engineering students must present
a two years course in German.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English (Seepage 164); the
remainder for writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfactorily
he may begin at once the regular Freshman work ; but if
he is deficient in one or more subjects he may enter con-
ditionally and make up his deficiency as soon as possible
in the Preparatory Department.
*
120
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Introduction to 'the Course of Civil Engineering*
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession either
in the office or in some of the responsible positions super-
intending the construction and operating of public works.
To secure these results the student is given, not only a
sound theoretical training it the studies of the courses,
but he is also required to study the practical applications
of the principles upon which the theory is based. The
first two years are devoted to the study of mathematics
and the theoretical branches. The last two years are
given to the study of applied courses—practical work in
the laboratory and field, as much as possible, being
required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German to
enable the student to read easily and understandingly pro-
fessional works in these languages; while the study of
English is pursued’until the student is qualified to prepare
acceptable themes on professional subjects. Instruction
based upon standard text-books is given throughout the
course by means of lectures, recitations, practice in lab-
oratory, drawing room and field. This work is largely
supplemented by assigning to the student, for solution,
practical problems bearing directly upon the subject matter
discussed in the class room and requiring original investi-
gation, thus training the student to habits of independence
and awakening his interest in the works of his course.
The Department is provided with all the* instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches, of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	121»
field Engineering. After the student is taught the use
and adjustment of the instruments, surveys, elementary
in character, are commenced and continued progressively
until the more difficult princip'es and methods are under-
stood. In a similar manner is instruction given in the
Courses in Sanitary Engineering, Hydromechanics, Re-
sistance of Materials, Bridges and Roofs, etc., thus
familiarizing the student with" practical Engineering sub-
jects, and the most improved method of execution and
designing.
A thesis on some approved subject connected with the
course of study, is required of each student as a condition
of graduation. The thesis must embody the results of
original research.
122
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Prescribed for Civil Engineering.
(DEGREE: C. E.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a. Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		I* age	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	5i	I.	Anal. Geom. -	5	52	II.
English, - -	5	4i	I.	Surveying, - -	5	54	II.III.
French, - -	5	48	I.	English, - -	5	41	I.
Chemistry, -	3	78	II.	French, - • -	5	48	I.
Drawing, - -	3	76	I.	Chemistry, -	3	78	II. l. , . 7,...
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Calculus, - -	5	52	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	54 76	I. III.	Dif. Equations.	5	53	V.
R. R. Surveying	5	55 56	VI. VII.	Des. Geometry	3	54 76	I. III.
Physics, - -	5	83	II.III.	Adv. Surveying,	5	55	IV.,V.
Drawing, - -	3	76	II.III.	Physics, - -	5	83'	II.III.
				Drawing, - -	3	76 77	III. V.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics, -	5	56	VIII.	Mechanics of Materials, -	5	56	IX.
Geodesy, ’ - -	4	60	XVI.	Astronomy, -	3	60	I.
English, - -	4	42	II.	English, - -	4	42	II.
Geology, - -	4	90	I.	Geology, - -	4	91	III.
Drawing, - -	2	77	VI.	Drawing, - -	o	77	VII.
Stereotomy, -	1	59	XIV.				
SENIOR YEAR.
				Engineering, -	5	58	XII.
Engineering, -	5	58	XII.	Hydromechan.,	3	59	XV.
Drawing, - -	3	77	VII.	Graph. Stat.,	5	57	xn.t
Bridges, Roofs,	5	57	X.	Sanitary Eng.,	2	58	XIII.
Sanitary Eng.,	2	58	XIII.	Steam Boilers,	3	62	IV.
Hydrom echan,	3	59	XV.	Thesis Work,					 J
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	123
Introduction to the Course in Mechanical
Engineering*
The Course in Mechanical Engineering, leading to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, is given to those young
men that wish to prepare themselves for the designing of
machinery, with its appurtenances, and for the successful
management of power-plants. As the Course requires'a
thorough knowledge of pure and Applied Mathematics,
as well as of Physics, only those capable of adapting them
selves to these requirements should take it up. The Course
is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of the
study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used in
Mechanical Engineering, accompanied by the science of
pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions of
connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions or to the work done by energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct develop-
ment of kinematics, and the Course continues throughout
the Junior and Senior Years.
The Courses in Shop work are most complete. The first
year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop, in
which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
’ making are taught. When the students have become
sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the work of
the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
1
124	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
the student by each step until he has mastered all the
details of the art.
The latter part of the Senior Year is largely taken up in
the preparation of a Graduating Thesis. Here especially
the student is taught to depend as much as possible upon
his own resources and abilities in exercising his ingenuity.
This is the culminating effort of the course, embodying its
chief results, and is expected to show considerable
originality.
(For the equipment of the shops in which the courses are
given, see page 20.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
125
Studies Prescribed for Mechanical Engineering.
(DEGREE: M. E.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Eage	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	Analyt. Geom.,	5	52	IL
French, - -	5	48	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
Drawing, - -	3	76	I.	Drawing, - -	3	76	II.
Chemistry, -	3	78	II.	Chemistry, -	3	78	IL
Shopwork, -	3	65	XIV.a	Shopwork, -	3	65	XIV.b
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Calculus, - -	5	52	IV.
Des. ^Geometry,	3	5476	I. III.	Des. Geometry,	3	54 76	I. III.
Drawing, - -	3	76	III.	Drawing, - -	3	76	III.
Chemistry, -	5	79	IV.	Chemistry, -	5	80	V.
Physics, - -	5	83	II.HI.	Physics, - -	5	83	II.III.
Shop work,	-	3	65	XIV. c	Shopwork, -	3	66	XIV.d
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anal.Mechanics	5	56	VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat.,	5	56	IX.
Kinematics, -	' 5	62	V.	Machine Design	3	83	VI.
English, - -	5	4i	I.	Valve Gears, -	2	63	VII.
Drawing, - -	3	76	IV.	English, - -	5	4i	I.
Physics, - -	3	83	IV.	Drawing, - -	3	76	IV.
Shop work, -	3	66	XIV.e	Shopwork, -	3	66	XIV. f
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of Engineering,	2	61	II.	Steam Engine Design, - -	5	62	III.
Thermodynam,	5	6r	I.	Steam Boilers,	3	62	IV.
Steam Engine Design, - - Mechani’l Lab., Shop work, -	5 3 3	62 63 66	III. VIII. XIV. f	Thesis, - - -	12	64	IX.
126	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Two Year Course in Mechanical Engineering*
Theory, Design an3 Operation of Gas, Oil
and Vapor Engines.
This course is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors and embraces it in theory, design, con-
struction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design of
gas engines together with their adaptation to the supply-
ing of power for almost every requirement has led to the
establishment of this course for those young men wishing
to make a special study of this branch of engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a general
descriptive study of the different types of engines with
discussions on the general management, operation, care and
special uses to which this type of motor may be applied.
During the second year the general theory of the gas
engine is studied and the design of an engine for a specific
purpose is undertaken by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodynamic
efficiency, speed regulation and economy. Experiments
in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation of
vaporizers and curburetters, construction of spark coils
with management and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room by
the complete building and testing of a gas engine of a ’
design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each student
is required to prepare the patterns and core-boxes,
machine the castings and forgings, assemble the complete
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
127
engine and submit a comprehensive report of a test on the
machine constructed. If the report proves’ satisfactory, a
certificate of proficiency in the field is given to the student
and the gas engine become his own property.
For admission to this course the student must certify by
examination or certificate, his ability to pursue the studies
of the first year.
128
UNIVERSITY OF NQTRE DAME,
Two-Year Course in Mechanical Engineering.
FIRST YEAR,
SUBJECTS:	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS:	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	168	C.	Mathematics, -	5	169	F& G.
Geometry, - -	5	169	E.	Trigonometry,	5	170	H.
Drawing, - -	3	76	I.	Drawing, - -	3	76	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	65	XIV. a	Shopwork, -	3	65	XIV, a
Physics, - -	5	83	I.	Chemistry, - -	5	78	I.
Gas Engines, -	5	64	XI.	Vapor Engines,	5	64	XI.
SECOND YEAR.
M»tor Design,	5	65	XII.	Motor Design,	5	65	XII.
Skopwork, - -	6	65	XIV.g	Shopwork, - -	6	65	XIV.g
Laboratory, - 	r		10	65	XIII.	Laboratory, -	10	65	XIII.
i
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
129
Introduction to the Course of Electrical Engineering*
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of Electrical and Me-
chanical work. The study of the subjects arranged on the
following page is intended to give a general education as
well as special training in the technical branches involved
in the various practical applications of electricity in
industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires some skill in
handling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records of
the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
center in the growth of which electricity is taking a very
prominent part. Electric power generated by steam is
now being distributed and utilized in several large plants,
some using the three phase alternating sytsem while
others are using the direct current. One of the largest
water power developments in the middle west is situated
within a few miles of the University. From this estab-
lishment we receive three phase alternating currents which
furnish light for our buildings and grounds and power for
driving motors in our shops and printing offices, etc., all
of which are operated by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and electri-
cal power stations operated by water power within a short
130
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
distance. Our students visit all of these plants, accom-
panied by an instructor who points out the applications of
the text-book theory in the design of electrical apparatus
and its operation under actual working conditions.
(For requirements for admission, degree, etc., see pages 117-119.)
THESIS.
Each candidate for graduation must present at the end
of the Senior Year an acceptable Thesis embodying the
results of an extended original research on an Engineering
subject, chosen at the beginning of the year, with the
approval of the head of the department. The descriptive
part must be typewritten on ledger paper, and bound in
book form together with the drawings.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE WIE.
*31
Studies Prescribed for Electrical Engineering*
DEGREE: M. E. in E. E.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: "Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	Analyt. Geom.	5	52	II.
French, - - -	5	48	I.	French, - -	5	48	I.
Drawing, - -	4	76	I.	Drawing, - -	4	76	II.
Chemistry - -	3	78	II.	Chemistry, - -	0 0	78	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	65	XIV.a	Shopwork, - -	3	65	XIV.b
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Calculus, -	5	52	IV.
Des. Geometry,	3	5476	I. III.	Des. Geometry,	3	5476	I. III.
Chemistry, - -	n 0	79	IV.	Physical Prob.,	2	83	III.
Physics, - -	3	83	II.	Physics, - -	3	83	II.
Shopwork,	3	65	XIV.c	Shopwork, - -	3	66	XIV. d
Physical Prob.,	2	83	III.	Drawing, - -	2	76	III.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytical Mechanics,	5	56	VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat. Machine Design	5 5	56 63	IX. VI.VII.
Kinematics, -	5	62	V.	English, - -	5	4i	I.
English, - -	5	41	I.	Physics,	3	83	IV.
Physics, - -	3	80	IV.	Shopwork, - -	3	• 66	XIV.f
Shop work, - -	3	66	XIV. e				
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo Machinery,	5	67	III.	Dynamo Machinery,	5	67	III.
Therm odyn am,	5	61	I.	Electrical Dab.,	5	68	IV.
Electrical Dab.,	5	68	IV.	Designing, - -	3	68	V.
Designing, - -	3	68	V.	Thesis, - - -			
Thesis, - - -				Hydraulics,	3	61	I.
132	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Short Course in Applied Electricity*
( Students that do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
course should enter this shorter course, which may be
completed in two years. It is arranged to give an accu-
rate knowledge of the fundamental theories of electricity
and magnetism, as well as a certain amount of skill in
handling .electrical machinery and appliances. Algebra,
geometry, trigonometry, and elementary physics are
included, for they are necessary in order to carry on suc-
cessfully the practical work of designing, manufacturing
and testing or operating electrical apparatus. Training in
this practical work is given in the drafting room, the
machine shops, and in the electrical and physical labora-
tories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application of
electricity to the distribution of light and power are learned
by testing, repairing, and making additions to the Uni-
versity plant and by visiting the numerous electric plants
in the vicinity, acconfpanied by an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the course and sufficient practice is given
to enable the student to make work drawings and to follow
them in the construction of apparatus in the shops and
laboratories.
Applicants for admission to this course should be at
least 17 years of age. They should have a fair knowledge
of the subjects taught in the common schools, especially
arithmetic and algebra as far a quadratics.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate stating that fact is issued.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
*33
Studies Prescribed for Short Course in
Applied Electricity.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	. SEE EOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Eage	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	168	c.	Geometry, - -	5	169	D.
Drawing, - -	3	76	I.	Drawing, - -	3	76	II.
Shopwork, - -	3	65	XIV.a	Shop work, - -	3	65	XIV.b
Physics, - -	5	83	I.	Physics, - -	5	83	I.
Applied Electricity, -	5	66	I.	Applied Electricity, -	5	66	I.
SECOND YEAR.
T rigonometry, Drawing, - - Shopwork, - - Dynamo Machinery, - Applied Electricity, -	5 3 3 5 5	170 68 65 67 67	H. V. XIV.c III. II.	Engines and Boilers, Drawing, - - Shopwork, - - Dynamo Machinery, Applied Electricity,	3 3 3 5 5	64 68 66 67 67 '	V XIV.d III. II.
The laboratory fees for students that are taking the regular work
in this course, according to the above schedule, after they have
finished all the work required for entrance, shall be as given on
page 118.
All others are special students and for them the fee is as given on
page 29 for Applied Electricity.
134
- UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAMB.
COURSE IN ARCHITECTURE.
This course has been introduced as a natural outgrowth
of the splendid engineering course and is designed to work
in harmony with it.
The course in Architecture has thus (in the Freshman
and Sophomore years) all the advantages of complete
education in mathematics combined with the elementary
studies of Architecture, together with the full course of
Architecture in the Junior and Senior years.
The studies are arranged in the college year to corres-
pond with the progress of other large colleges.
The work of the professors in this course is under the
direct supervision of a practising architect.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME. .	135
Course in Architecture*
(DEGREE: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.)
FRESHMAN YEAR*
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE EOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra, - -	5	51	I.	Analytic Geom.,	5	52	II.
English, - - French or	5	41	I.	English, - - French or	5	41	I.
German, -	5	4851	I.	German, -	5	4851	I.
Freehand Draw.	2	74	la. Ib.	Freehand Draw.	2	74	la. Ib.
History of Arch.	2	68	la.	History of Arch.	2	68	la.
Arch. Orders,	4	69	II.	Arch. Orders.	4	69	II.
SOPHOMORE YEAR*
Calculus, - -	5	52	III.	Calculus, - -	5	S2	IV.
Des. Geom., -	3	54 76	I.III.	Des. Geom., -	3	5476	I.III.
Physics, - -	3	83	II.IH.	Physics, - -	3	83	II.IH.
El. Design, -	4	75	III.	El. Design, -	4	75	III.
History of Arch.	2	68	la.	History of Arch.	2	68	la.
Freehand Draw.	3	74	Ha.	Freehand Draw.	3	74	Ila.
Pen and Ink,	1	78	XII.	Pen and Ink,	1	78	XII.
Water Colors,	2	77	X.	Materials, -	2	7i	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Meeh.,	3	56	VIII.	Meeh, of Mat’ls	3	56	IX.
Freehand Draw.	4	74	lib.	Freehand Draw.	4	74	Hb.
Arch. Research,	3	69	Ib.	Arch. Research,	3	69	Ib.
Pen and Ink,	1	78	XII.	Pen and Ink,	1	78	XII.
Heat and Vent.,	3 '	70	IV.	Roof-Trusses,	5	72	XI.
Specifications,	2	7i	VII.	Specifications,	2	7i	VII.
Design, - -	5	69	HI.	Design, - -	5	69	III.
Struct. Design,	1	7i	IX.				
SENIOR YEAR.
Adv. Design,	IO	69	III.	Theory Arches,	2	7i	VI.
Adv. Cons. Des.,	8	70	V.	Hist, of Orn’m’t	1	72	X.
Rendering,	2	78	XI.	House Sanit’n,	2	72	XII.
House Sanit’n,	2	72	XII.	Thesis Work,	18	72	XIII.
School of Law*
138
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
LAW FACULTY.
VBRY RBV. ANDREW MORRISSBY, C. S. C.,
President of the University.
WILLIAM HOYNLS, LL. D.,
Dean of Law Faculty.
LUCIUS HUBBARD, LL- D.,
Professor of Law.
TIMOTHY K. HOWARD, LL. D.,
Professor of Law.
ARTHUR L. HUBBARD, A. M., LL. B.,
Professor of Law.
ANDREW ANDBRSON,
Professor of Law.
SHBRMAN STBBLB, Litt. B., LL- B.,
Professor of Law.
JOHN B. RBNO, A. M., LL. B.,
Lecturer on Parliamentary Law.
RBV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHBR, C. S. C.,
Lecturer on Bthics and Natural Law.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAMB.
139
SCHOOL OF LAW.
For several years a systematic movement has been in
progress under the auspices of the bench and bar of the
country to elevate the standing and promote the efficiency
of the legal profession, and make it as learned in fact as it
is in name. The most essential preliminary step to this
end, as lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe require-
ments and examinations more comprehensive and rigorous
as a test of qualifications for
ADMISSION TO THE BAR.
Upon the law departments of universities, or law schools,
as they may collectively be called, the profession must
mainly depend for co-operation and success in this laudable
undertaking. In fact, due acknowledgment of the im-
portance of their services is made as follows in a former
report of the Committee on Legal Education of the
American Bar Association:
‘ ‘ The benefits which law sqhools offer are easily suggested, and
are of the most superior kind. They afford the student an acquaint-
ance with general principles, difficult if not impossible to be other-
wise obtained; they serve to remove difficulties which are inherent in
scientific and technical phraseology, and as a necessary consequence
they furnish the student with the means for clear conception and
accurate and precise expression. They familiarize him with leading
cases, and the application of them to discussion. They give him the
valuable habit of attention, teach him familiar maxims and offer him
the priceless opportunities which result from contact and generous
emulation. They lead him readily to survey the law as a science,
and imbue him with the principles of ethics as its true foundation.
Disputing, reasoning, reading, and discoursing becomes his con-
stant exercise; he improves remarkably as he becomes acquainted
with them, and obtains progress otherwise beyond his reach.”
According to the late Chief Justice Waite, of the United
States Supreme Court, “Taw schools are now a necessity;”
140
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
and, in his work entitled “The American Commonwealth,”
Professor Bryce attributes the progress in learning and
professional attainments of American lawyers “to the
extraordinary excellence of many of the law schools. ’ ’
It is well that the Professor qualifies his statement by
using the word “many,” instead of “all,” for some of
them unfortunately permit persons wanting even in the
rudiments of a liberal education to become candidates for
diplomas. Such of these persons as manage without further
preparation to secure admission to the bar necessarily
commit gross mistakes in the technical work of the
profession; and, in consequence, clients are misled, judges
embarrassed and courts delayed. While it is true that
many of them abandon the practice after a precarious
experience and turn to pursuits for which they are better
qualified, yet the step is attended in some measure with
disappointment and humiliation, not to mention the com-
parative loss of time and means incident to preparing for
examination and waiting vainly for success.
The movement in progress to protect and promote the
interests of the legal profession has become an obstacle to
the continuance of these abuses, exceptional though they be.
It is becoming more difficult year by year to meet suc-
cessfully the requirements and pass the examinations pre-
scribed for admission to the bar, and law schools are
bound to take cognizance of the fact and correspondingly
broaden and strengthen their courses of instruction.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION.
And here it may be in order to refer more particularly to
the prevailing methods of instruction in the different law
schools. In some of them the text-book system is exclus-
ively followed, and the students read and recite daily an
.assigned lesson of a given number of pages; in others the
lecture system obtains, as in European universities, and stu-
University of notre dame.	14 i
dents familiar with phonography may take notes and suffi-
ciently study the same to be able in subsequent examinations
to answer questions bearing upon the subjects studied ; in a
few others the study of cases,, or case reading, is the
favored system, and the students read books of selected
cases treating of different branches of the law, with a view
to reciting them in outline or writing a brief digest of the
points involved; in certain other schools an effort has
been made to combine some of the distinctive features of
case reading, text-book work and lecturing, and a mixed
or eclectic system is the result. At Notre Dame none of
these systems is exclusively followed, although there is a
near approach to the last. With careful discrimination
the best features of all are comprised in the curriculum
here preferred.
The study of cases is usually begun in September and
continues long enough to enable students to understand,
analyze and criticize the decisions assigned to them for
study and recitation. The difficulties encountered by
beginners in the work are readily surmounted by the aid
of lectures and explanations. In a comparatively short
time they become familiar with a number of the leading
cases and learn to recognize features of strength or
weakness in the opinions of the courts. They learn also
to distinguish dicta from the logical sequence of thought
in dealing with the proper subjects of judicial determina-
tion, and recognize promptly the qualifying or weakening
effect of a dissenting opinion. After thus familiarizing
themselves with cases, they are advised and expected to
read the authorities cited daily in class, whether in the
text-books, lectures or quizzes. In the preparation also of
written theses from month to month, comprising on- an
average of fifteen pages of legal cap, they must necessarily
consult and cite them. In moot-court work likewise they
are incited by the foretaste of forensic contests to make a
142	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
careful study not only of the cases in the reports, but also
of the pertinent portions of text-books, digests, etc., and
thus they are enabled intelligently to marshal the
authorities upon which they depend for success in the
maintenance of their respective contentions.
In examinations for admissions to the bar the courts of
some States require applicants to furnish lists of the text-
books they studied, and such as have merely attended
lectures or studied cases, instead of reading text-books,
encounter danger of being declared ineligible to appear for
examination. If they undertake to explain how the law
may be learned without studying a certain number of
text-books, they find the examiners inclined to listen
incredulously, if not openly to express doubt. And if
they ask credit for the work done, it is likely to be given
so sparingly as to cause disappointment and discourage-
ment. As many law students come from States in which
this test is applied, the use of text-books is deemed advis-
able, if not necessary. • But there are other reasons for
using them. It has been found, for example, that so
many mistakes are made by the average student in com-
mitting lectures to writing that his notes are frequently
unintelligible or misleading, and consequently worthless for
future reference. While it is true that this objection' might
be overcome by resorting to the slow, if not tedious
process of dictation, yet this method of instruction would
manifestly be impracticable under present conditions in a
domain so extensive as the law. Moreover, the books
used by students become peculiarly serviceable in their
subsequent practice. Remembering at least in a general
way the contents, they can turn more readily than they
could with books they had not studied to the pages that
elucidate the questions with which they may afterwards
have to deal at the instance of courts, clients, and oppos-
ing counsel. In some law schools lectures have been
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
143
taken in full by certain students skilled in phonography,
and then typewritten and sold at so much a page to other
members of the class, but this practice has fallen into
disuse, having proved to be very unsatisfactory and more
costly than text-books.
The lecture or dictation system alone may be pronounced
antiquated and impracticable for the reasons already stated, •
but, in combination with text-book work, case reading and
daily examinations, its great value and utility cannot be
overestimated. At Notre Dame it forms an important
factor in the law curriculum. Bach subject is fully
covered by lectures, text-book work, daily and bi-monthly
examinations, monthly theses, the reading of pertinent
cases and formal trials in the moot and other courts of the
University.
This course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrous student can
accomplish twice as much in a given time at Notre Dame
as he can in an office or at home. With comparative
immunity from the distractions and temptations of city
life, he can give his entire time to study and necessary
recreation. In short, he can here study a greater number
of hours and do more class work day by day than probably
anywhere else in the entire country.
The authorities of the University are sincerely in sym-
pathy with the efforts now making in educational and
legal circles to raise to the highest plane practicable ,
THE STANDARD OF PROFICIENCY
for graduation in law and admission to the bar. And yet
they aim to be guided in the matter by the dictates of
common sense. They know that a great number of worthy
and capable young men who desire to qualify themselves
for the legal profession are prevented by circumstances
from completing the studies of a collegiate course. Such
144
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
young men, many of whom may be actively engaged in
business, in teaching, journalistic work, and the like, are
almost necessarily driven to the chaotic and discouraging
study of the law in offices, if denied indulgent consideration
by our law schools.
It is conceived to be the duty of a university to do all
the good it can to as many as possible, consistently with
its curricula and standing; and to that end it ought to aid
and encourage worthy and upright, honest and capable
young men who manifest an earnest desire to qualify
themselves for a useful and creditable career in professional
. life. With a view to doing its full share in this regard,
the University of Notre Dame will welcome to its halls and
its classes every deserving young man who desires to
pursue and become proficient in the study of the law. But
if his standing in collegiate work or general education be
not sufficiently advanced he may qualify himself by attend-
ing for a period the classes of the preparatory course in
which he is found to be deficient.
The earnest student may count upon deriving excep-
tional advantages from studying law at a university.
There the educational atmosphere is elevating, broaden-
ing, invigorating. It awakens a wholesome spirit of
emulation. It encourages the exercise of all the faculties
and, intellectual powers. It serves as a potent and salutary
force in the development of mind and body. The impres-
sive lesson it inculcates relative to the past, the present
and the future—:the manifold duties of life — necessarily
directs the thoughtful to the paths of knowledge and use-
fulness. It awakens life-directing forces that else would
perhaps ever lie dormant. It tends to turn thought and
action toward high ideals, the acquisition of useful knowl-
edge, sturdy self-reliance and a strong sense of moral
obligation in the consciousness of increasing power and
influence at the bar.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
145
Students who do not intend to become candidates for the
degree of LL. B., but wish simply to add to their educa-
tional acquirements a knowledge of the
FUNDAMENTAL PRINCIPLES OF THE LAW
may at any time during the year have their names enrolled
on the list of special students in law. No extra expense
is thereby incurred. Yet they must be sufficiently advanced
in age and education to justify the belief that they can
understand and appreciate instruction in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily,
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that an edu-
cation is not complete without a knowledge of at least the
elementary legal principles. Many a man in trade has had
to face financial ruin on account of want of acquaintance
with these principles. Although in theory, at least, every
person is presumed to know the law, yet many a man has,
by an inconsiderate act due to his ignorance of it, forfeited
claim to the protection of the courts and the vindication of
his rights. Many a person has been forced to do exactly
the contrary of what he intended through his failure to
understand the essential elements of a contract. Many a
one has been compelled to pay heavy damages for personal
injuries caused by negligence, or failure to perform a duty,
or improper performance of it, where no liability would
exist if the law of torts had been known and observed. As
the law is over and around every creature from the first
moment of his being until the grave closes upon him and
his estate is settled, it would be impossible to overestimate
its vital interest and importance. Indeed, there is no study
that can at all compare with it in practical utility, in
training the mind to accuracy of observation, in strength-
ening the judgment and in imparting to the faculties the
power of discernment implied in what may be called
good common sense.
146
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
A period of three years is prescribed for undergraduates
in the
COURSE OF STUDY
in the Taw Department of this University. It leads when
satisfactorily completed to the degree LU. B. The Post-
graduate course comprises an additional or fourth year,
and leads to the degree of LL. M. By its charter this
University is empowered to confer these and all other
degrees appertaining to the courses of study in educational
institutions of the highest rank. There is no university
that has greater power under the law in this respect.
The undergraduate law students are divided into three
classes, corresponding to each year of the course leading
to the degree of LL. B. The Postgraduate course is for
students who have received that degree and aim at attain-
ing by further study and practical work to a higher grade
of proficiency. A full year of study in each class is
obligatory. Moreover, the student must pass a satisfactory
general examination at the close of each academic year.
Candidates for the degree of LL. B. may be from 18 to 30
or more years of age, and their educational equipment
must register at least high school graduation or collegiate
standing. Graduates entitled to vote are admitted tp the
bar on motion by the Supreme Court of Indiana.
In arranging the course of study it is sought to take
subjects in their logical sequence. The less difficult,
though by no means the less important, come in the First
year, while the more technical are dealt with in the
Second and Third, or Junior and Senior years, except
pleadings and evidence. A knowledge of these renders
moot-court work intelligible and profitable, and hence they
enter early into the plan of instruction. The moot court
practice is an important factor in the course of instruction
for all the classes, and there can be no question regarding
the advisability of learning and applying its rules of
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	147
pleading and evidence at as early a date as practicable.
Following are the chief subjects of study and the names of
some of the authors of text-books dealing with them:
The Common and Statutory Laws, with Exercises in Case
Reading and Statutory Construction.
Black on Interpretation of Laws, Bishop's Written Law^
Sutherland on Statutory Construction, Curtis s Federal
Statutes.
Law Dictionaries.
Anderson, Black, Bouvier, Shumaker & Longsdorf
Persons and Domestic Relations.
Tiffany, Dwight, Schouler, Reeves, Rodgers.
The Law of Contracts.
Hammon, Clark, Lawson, Bishop, Beach, Anson, Parsons.
The Law of Torts.
Hale, Jaggard, Cooley, Hilliard, Addison, Bishop's Non-
Contract Law, Barrows.
Criminal Law and Procedure.
Clark, Bishop, Heard, May, Hawley Cf McCregor,
Washburn, Wharton, Stephen, Clark & Marshall.
Medical Jurisprudence.
Reese, Dean, Beck, Taylor.
Common Law Pleadings.
Shipman, Gould, Stephen, Shinn, Heard, Chitty, Perry,
Bryant.
Code Pleadings and Practice.
Bliss, Maxwell, Boone, Phillips, Thompson on Trials,
Elliott's General Practice, Elliott's Appellate Procedure,
Foster's First Book of Practice, Estees' Pleadings, Blash-
field's Instructions to furies.
148	’ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
' Evidence*
Jones, Underhill^ Greenleaf, Wharton, Reynolds, Roscoe,
Starkie, Stephen, Best, Lawson, on Expert and Opinion
Evidence.	•
Sales.
Tiffany, Tiedeman, Benjamin, Burdick.
Insurance.
Vance, May, Elliott, Wood, Bliss, Joyce, Kerr.
Agency.
Reinhard, Mechem, Evans, Story, Wharton.
Partnership.
Bates, Shumaker, George, Lindley, Parsons, Pollock.
Equity Jurisprudence.
Fetter, Tiedeman, Eaton, Snell, Story, Adams, Met win.
Equity Pleadings and Practice.
Fletcher, Shipman, Shinn, Lube, Shipp & Daish.
International Law.
Glenn, Hall, Story, Vattel, Grotius, Woolsey, Wheaton,
Halleck, Davis.
Constitutional Law.
Black, Cooley, McClain, Von Holst, Desty, Story,
Hamilton, Madison, and Jay in the Federalist.
Private and Municipal Corporations.
Marshall, Clark, Elliott, Beach, Field, Angell & Ames,
Dillon, Tiedeman, Wild,t Ingersoll.
Personal Property.
Tiedeman, Darlington, Schouler, Smith, Williams.
Real Property.
Hopkins, Tiedeman, Williams, Washburn, Willard,
Boone.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
149
Wills, Executors and Administrators,
Gardner, Croswell, Redfield, Jarman, O'Hara, Wigram.
Bailments and Common Carriers.
Hale, Hutchinson, Edwards, Schouler, Story.
Negotiable Instruments or Commercial Paper*
Norton, Tiedeman, Daniel, Chalmers, Randolph.
Suretyship and Guaranty.
Pingrey, Brandt, Baylies, De Colyar, Pitman.
The subdivisions of the principal subjects indicated in
the preceding list are, of course, included in the general
terms designating those subjects, and it is unnecessary
specially to enumerate them. For example, it would be
superfluous to refer specifically to Arbitration, Demand,
Bstoppel, Injunction, Insolvency, Assessment, Taxation,
Mandamus, Quo Warranto, Ultra Vires, Recoupment,
Set-off, Counterclaim, Debtor and Creditor, and the like,
for they are carefully considered and fully explained in
connection with the broader subjects to which they relate.
The subjects of study are not necessarily taken, one by
one, in consecutive order, as given in the list. Three or
four of them may engage the attention at the same time.
By the system of study followed at Notre Dame it is
sought to keep each subject before the mind of the student
until he firmly grasps and understands it. The practice
of teaching to the same class one subject one day, another
the next, and still another the day following, as where
non-resident professors, each with a different theme,
follow daily one the other, is not here favored. Such
blending of subjects and intermingling of principles mani-
festly tend to confusion of thought and chaos of subject-
matter. It is admittedly very difficult in such case to com-
prehend and understand the law as a symmetrical whole—
a system majestic and beautiful in its harmonious entirety.
I5o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
POSTGRADUATE COURSE — FOURTH YEAR.
Only graduates in law are admitted to the Postgraduate
course. But these may be from any other university in
good standing, as well as from our own Taw School. A
year can very profitably be given to the work prescribed
for graduation in it. The degree conferred is that of
Master of Taws. The work of this course is eminently
practical and of the greatest possible utility to those who
intend to engage in the practice of the profession on their
own account at an early date, and not to give two or three
years of probation to the drudgery of a clerkship at small
salary in some office.
Every year of study greatly increases the interest of the
student in the law and his power to understand it. If
bright and industrious, he ought to do as much effective
work while a Senior as he did during the two preceding
years, and his capacity to learn ought to increase in corre-
sponding ratio in' the Postgraduate course. By working
earnestly and devotedly during the year he can review the
studies of the preceding three years and confidently reach
out in other directions to acquire additional knowledge.
The nature of his work and the subjects of his study may
here be briefly indicated :
Study of the Statutes and System of Pleadings of his State.
Practice in taking Depositions.
Frequent participation in Moot-Court Trials.
Arguments on Motions for New Trials.
Preparation of Bills of Exceptions, Briefs, Records and
Abstracts of Records in Appeals.
The Framing of Arguments for a Rehearing.
Duties of Masters in Chancery, Referees and Arbitrators.
Duties of Assignees and Receivers; also, of Public Officers.
Examination of Abstracts of Title and the Making of
Deeds, Mortgages, Leases, etc., in Conveyancing.
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	151
A Critical Study of Pleadings with Reference to Forms
and Sub stance.
furisdiction of the Courts, State and Federal.
The Roman Law and Comparative furisprudence.
The exercises of the class in office work are attended not
only by the students of the Postgraduate course, but also
by the Seniors. From a practical point of view, these
exercises are highly important, and the change in them
annually is sufficient to suggest novelty and make them
very interesting and instructive to the students of succeed-
ing years. While even one year of study in this class is
admittedly very helpful, if not actually neccessary, a second
year cannot fail to be singularly beneficial.
THE COMMON LAW
is taught primarily at Notre Dame. This is the law gen-
erally prevailing throughout the Union — the law that ob-
tains in the States. It addresses itself to almost all the
relations of life. In fact, about nineteen out of every
twenty cases tried in our courts are decided in accordance
with its principles. It is generally uniform in its operation.
But the statutory enactments of State legislators overcome
and displace it, so far as in conflict with its provisions.
These enactments differ materially in the different States,
owing to unlike conditions and local differences. Thus it
is that the laws of certain States are so radically unlike the
laws of other States. Of course, there are instances in
which statutes are passed to cover acts and conditions not
provided for by the common law; but in most instances
the existing statutes simply declare, qualify or render
inoperative some of its rules.
In view of these facts, thorough instruction is here. ‘
given in the common law. Neither lawyers nor judges
pretend to know the statutes of States other than those in
which they reside. In fact, a knowledge of the statutes of
9
152
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
different States would be more confusing and bewildering
than profitable to judges, lawyers and students. Moreover,
they are liable to be radically changed from time to time
by legislative bodies representing diverse interests and
opinions. In an examination for admission to the bar of
this or any other State, no question is put and nothing is
said relative to the statutes of sister States. In fact, the
States are treated as foreign to one another in law. There
are, however, certain fundamental statutory enactments
that exist without material diversity in almost all the
States. Again, other statutes somewhat less important
and fundamental in character exist in groups of States.
Such statutes as these may be profitably studied in class,
in connection with the common law; but it would be
worse than useless for a student to attempt to investigate
and study the mazes of statutory differences in the several
States. Hence, it is suggested as advisable for each of the
Senior and Postgraduate students to procure and have with
him for independent study when he comes in September a
copy of the revised statutes of his State or the State in
which he intends to practice.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings on Wednesday evenings. All students
of the Department are members of it. They are required,
each in his turn, to participate in its debates and other ex-
ercises. The debates commonly deal with questions
germane to the law. But subjects of history, political
economy, and the like, are also in favor. An excellent
opportunity is afforded at the meetings of the society to
develop skill, power and fluency in public speaking. The
graces of the elocutionist and the persuasive powers of the
orator may here be cultivated and improved. All can
increase in force and fluency of thought and expression by
attending regularly and participating in the exercises of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	153
this society. Officers are elected twice yearly by the
students themselves. They select also a competent critic
to note the mistakes made in pronunciation or otherwise
by the speakers at each meeting. One of the professors
usually presides and aids the members with his counsel
and suggestions. A Parliamentary Law meeting, with
exercises in elocution and debating, takes place each
Wednesday afternoon.
THE LAW LIBRARY
adjoins and communicates directly with the Lecture Room,
in Sorin Hall. Students have uninterrupted access to it at
all reasonable hours. They may frequent it as often as
they choose for the purpose of studying cases, preparing
for moot-court trials, finding authorities for their monthly
theses, referring to the cases cited in the text-books and
lectures, or reading the standard treatises. Every decision
rendered for many years by the State, Territorial and
Federal courts may here be found. Consequently, students
are not required to purchase as many law books as they
are obliged to have in other places. The books in the
Library may be used by the law students in common as
freely as can reasonably be wished, and without charge.
The same is true in respect to the vast collection of mis-
cellaneous books in the Lemonnier Library. Law books
may be taken from the Library * to the Lectnre Room for
use in moot-court trials, but must afterward be returned.
All students have an equal right to use them, being as it
were tenants in common in that regard ; but any disposi- - ?
tion to invade the common right, whether through selfish-
ness or thoughtlessness, by attempting to make exclusive
use of them, as in placing them under cover in desks or
taking them to private rooms, is vigilantly guarded against
and uniformly discountenanced. Students have an un-
doubted right to expect that when they need any particu-
154
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
lar book they can find it in the library, and not be
compelled to lose valuable time in making inquiry or
searching for it elsewhere. All text - books needed by
students can be purchased at Notre Dame. They are sold
here at the lowest market prices.
No discrimination is made between law students and
students of the regular collegiate courses in the matter of
EXPENSES.
The fee for tuition, board, lodging, washing, mending,
etc., is fixed at $400 for the scholastic year. This covers
all necessaries, and, considering the excellent accommo-
dations, is believed to be • exceptionally reasonable. It
is said that students elsewhere must pay from $450 to
$500 a year for like services and accommodations. The
cost of books may be estimated approximately at $25 a
year. Students have but little occasion or opportunity to
spend money or to cultivate expensive habits; for they
study, board and lodge at the University—in an atmos-
phere favorable for earnest work, and quite apart from the
associations and temptations of city life. Terms of pay-
ment and other pertinent intormation may be found
elsewhere in this catalogue, under the general caption
“Expenses.” No additional charge is made for attending
or becoming students of classes in any of the collegiate
courses. A special law announcement containing additional
information will be mailed free to any address on applica-
tion to the President of the University.
DISCIPLINE.
The Law students, as well as all others, are expected to
-be earnest and industrious in the performance of the duties
devolving upon them, and to secure this end and the
fullest possible utilization of time the same rules of
discipline apply to all students.' These rules require
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
155
promptitude and regularity in class attendance, upright-
ness in conduct and manliness in deportment. Obedience
to them tends to strengthen character, establish wholesome	*
habits and nourish in heart and mind the qualities that
mark the true gentleman and persevering scholar, the
honored citizen and successful lawyer, the independent
thinker and firm believer in the illimitable possibilities of
industry, perseverance and self-reliance to win the crown
of illustrious achievements in the domain of life.
156
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
COMMERCIAL COURSE.
When the character and needs of the country are con-
sidered, this course will appear the most practical, and one
of the most important that-an educational institution can
offer.
Those, therefore, who have not the time or means to
take a complete college course in the Classics or Sciences,
would do well to enroll themselves in the Commercial
Course. No plan of study is more injudicious than a hap-
hazard selection of such studies as an inexperienced young
man may fancy. The training resulting from a fixed
course of studies is of the utmost benefit to the student.
The Commercial Course at Notre Dame has always
received the most careful attention from the officers and
the Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims to give the
graduates of this course a more complete business training
than can be obtained in any purely commercial college.
The authorities require that those entering this course—
which may be completed in one year—should be at least
16 years of age and should have completed two years of
a regular High school course or its equivalent. Special
arrangements, however, will be made for young men who
have had no High School training, but who may have
had practical business or office experience. Should a
pupil desire to pursue any other studies in which he may
be interested, and for which he has time, he will have
liberty to do so. (All classes in this course are taught
daily.)
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
157
SENIOR YEAR.
FIRST TERM.
X. Arithmetic—Percentage; Ratio and Proportion; as
far as Involution and Evolution. Normal Union Arithme-
tic, Brooks.
2.	Bookkeeping — Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions ; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry; ’ Retailing by
Double Entry; special practice in writing Business Paper
and Business forms. New complete Bookkeeping,
Williams and Rogers.
3.	Business Practice and Office Work daily.
4.	English—Study of the Theory of English Com-
position; frequent exercise in Essays. The foundation of
Rhetoric.
5.	Shorthand and Typewriting.*
6.	Penmanship.
SECOND TERM.
J. Arithmetic—Percentage, Ratio and Proportion
(reviewed); Involution and Evolution; Arithmetical and
Geometrical Series; Higher Percentage; Mensuration;
Arithmetical Analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks.
2.	Bookkeeping — Single Entry, changing Single to
Double Entry; Retailing; Wholesaling; Shipping and
f
Commission ; Jobbing; Manufacturing; Installment and
State Agencies; Joint Stock Companies; Banking; Rail-
roading. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and
Rogers.	*
* The shorthand is free to commercial students. A moderate fee
is charged for use of typewriter.
158	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
3.	Business Practice and Office Work daily.
4.	c Special class in Business Correspondence and
Commercial Orthography.
5.	Commercial Law—General principles of Contracts;
Agency; Partnership ; Corporations; Guaranty ; Sale of
Goods; Negotiable Paper. Richardson,
6.	Penmanship.
7.	Shorthand and Typewriting continued.
a
Preparatory Department*
i6o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
For the Classical, English and Economic Courses,
[For description of courses see pages 163-174.]
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs a Week	COURSE
Latin, - - -	5	A	Latin, - - -	5	A
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
History, - -	3	A	History, - -	3	A
Mathematics, -	5	A	Mathematics, -	5	B
Science, - ’ -	5	B	Science, - -	3	D
SECOND YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	B	Latin, - - -	5	B
Greek. - - -	4	A	Greek, - - -	4	A
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
History, - -	3	B	History, - -	3	B
Mathematics, -	5	C	Mathematics, -	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	C	Latin, - - -	5	C
Greek, - - -	4	B	Greek, - - -	4	B
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	C
History, - -	3	C	History, - -	3	C
Mathematics, -	5	E	Science, - -	3	C
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin, - - -	5	D	Latin, - - -	5	- D
Greek, - - -	4	C	Greek, - - -	4	C
English, - -	4	D	English, - -	4	D
Ger. or French	5		Ger. or French	5	
Science, - -	5	E	Science, - -	5	F
Students in the English and Economic Courses will begin German or French
in the second year instead of Greek and continue it during the two remaining
• years.
Students that begin French in the second year will take up German in the
fourth year. Students that begin German in the second year will take up French
in the fourth year. Classical Students will begin French or German in ths
fourth year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
l6l
For the Biological and General Science Courses.
[For description of courses see pages 163-174.]
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
Ma’hematics, -	5	A	Mathematics, -	5	B
Latin, - - -	5	A	Latin, - - -	5	A
Drawing, - -	3	A	Drawing, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	A	Science, - -	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
Mathematics, -	5	C	Mathematics, -	5	D
History, - -	3	A	History - -	3	A
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	5	C
Latin, - - -	5	B	Latin, - - -	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	G
Mathematics, -	5	E	Mathematics, -	5	F
German, - -	5	A	German, - -	5	A
Science, - -	5	E	Science, - -	5	E
History, - -	3	B	History - -	3	B
FOURTH YEAR.
English, - -	5	D	English, - -	5	D
German, - -	3	B	German, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	F	Science, - -	5	F
Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
History, - -	3	C	History - -	3	C
Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A	Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A
General Science Students will take Trigonometry in the fourth year instead
of Civil Government.
Biological Students will take four hour.? ofDrawing in the second term of the
third year instead of Mathematics F,
i6z
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
For the Engineering and Architectural Courses.
[For description of courses see pages 163-174.]
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English, - -	5	A	English, - -	5	A
Mathematics, -	5	A	Mathematics, -	5	B
History, - -	3	A	History, - -	3	A
Sc: ence, - -	5	A	Science, - -	5	D
Drawing, - -	3	A	Drawing, - -	3	B
SECOND YEAR.
English, - -	5	B	English, - -	5	B
Mathematics, -	5	C	Mathematics, -	5	D
History, - -	3	B	History, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	B	Science, - -	5	C ,
Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A	Civil Gov’rnm’t	2	A
THIRD YEAR.
English, - -	5	C	English, - -	5	C
Mathematics, -	5	E	Mathematics, -	5	F
German, - -	5	A	German, - -	5	A
Science, - -	5	E	Science, - -	5	E
History, - -	3	c	History, - -	3	C
FOURTH YEAR.
English, - -	5	D	English, - -	5	D
Mathematics, -	5	G	Mathematics, -	5	H
Germafh, - -	3	B	German, - -	3	B
Science, - -	5	F	Science, - -	5	F
‘ Science, - -	2	G	Science, - -	2	G
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	163.
PREPARATORY COURSE.
COURSES IN LATIN.
Grammar—Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises — Rudiments of Latin, Reynolds.
[Five hours a week for one yearl\
B.
Grammar—Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar — Books I.—IV.; or, Junior Latin Book.
Prose Composition — Based on Caesar.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
C.
Grammar — Syntax, Bennett.
Nepos — Selected Lives.
Sallust—Catiline.
Cicero—Orations I.—III., Against Catiline.
'	Prose Composition — Based on Authors read.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
D.
Grammar — Complete Review.
Cicero—Three Orations, including Pro Lege Manilia.
Vergil — Aeneid, Six Books. The explanations cover
peculiarities of Syntax, Figures, Mythology.
Prosody— Study of Hexameter Verse.
Prose Composition — Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
164	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN GREEK.
Grammar — Ety mology, Goodwin.
Exercises — First Greek Book, White.
Epitome of the New Testament — Part I., Stoffel.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
B.
Grammar—Etymology Reviewed, Syntax, Goodwin.
Xenophon—Anabasis, Four Books.
Prose Composition — Based on Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament—Part II., Stoffel.
[Four hours a week for one yeari\
c.
Grammar—Syntax, Goodwin.
Xenophon — Memorabilia, or Hellenica.
Prose Composition.
Homer—Iliad, Six Books. Homeric language and
verse. Grammatical explanations. -
Epitome of the New Testament — Part III., Stoffel.
[Four hours a week for one year^\
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
(a)	Meiklejohn’s Art of Writing English, with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The elements of versification. Scansion, one hour
a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Memory
work.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
165
. (c) Required reading : Poe’s Poem's, Evangeline, Fior- *
etti, Snow-Bound, The Vision of Sir Launfal, Ancient
Mariner, The Sketch Book, Robinson Crusoe, Poe’s Tales,
Treasure Island, The Merchant of Venice, fulius Caesar.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one yearly
B.
(a)	Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric. Part I., with, daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The simpler verse-forms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: The Lady of the Lake, Silas
Marner, The Princess, The Flight of the Tartar Tribes, The
Courtship of Miles Standish, Ivanhoe, As You Like It,
Macbeth.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one yeari\
G
(a)	Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with daily
exercises in class. Fortnightly theme.
(b)	Verse-forms continued. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c)	Required reading : The Golden Treasury of English
Lyrics, Milton’s Minor Poems, Macaulay’s Kssay on Milton,
Sir Roger de Coverley, Macaulay’s Bssay on Addison,
Burke’s Speech on the Conciliation of America, Webster’s
Bunker Hill Oration, Lincoln’s Gettysburg Oration, A
Midsummer Night's Dream, King Lear.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one year.\
166	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
D.
(a)	Genung’s The Working Principles of Rhetoric, Part
I., with daily exercises in class. Monthly essay.
(b)	Verse-forms concluded. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c)	Required reading : Selections from Paradise Lost, •
Cary’s Dante and Pope’s Homer, The Idyll's of the King,
The Dream of Gerontius, Aubrey de Vere’s Poems, The
Tempest, Hamlet, Gates’ Selections from Newman, The
House of the Seven Gables.
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
\_Four hours a week for one year. ]
COURSES IN HISTORY.
A.
Ancient History—Fisher’s Outlines of Universal His-
tory. The Oriental Nations. The History of Greece and
of the Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The
Establishment of the Empire, and the rise of Christianity.
\Three hours a week for one yearly
B.
Mediaeval History — Fisher’s Outlines. The Barbarians
and their Kingdoms. Mahommedanism and the Saracen
Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire. The Invasion of the
Northmen and the Magyars. The Empire and the Papacy.
The Crusades. The Great Schism and the rise of the
nations of Modern Europe.
* \Three hours a week for one yearly
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	167
G
Modern History—Fisher’s Outlines. The Renaissance.
The Age of Discovery. The Protestant Reformation. The
Power of Spain. The Strifes of France with Spain and
Germany. The age of Tonis XVI., and the rise of Russia.
The Spanish and Austrian Successions. The Empire
of Bngland. The American Revolution. The French
Revolution and the Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions
and the Spirit of Nationality. The Formation of Germany
and Italy.
\Three hours a week for one year. \
COURSE IN CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
This is a study of the science of government in connec-
tion with American institutions, and is intended to give
the student some knowledge of the general principles of
government and of the Am "m Constitution. The sub;
ject begins by defining go’ . ent; then is considered the
object and necessity of gove- :ent; origin of civil society ;
the principle of suffrage ; different forms of government
defined and compared ; theories of representation. These
topics necessarily are treated* briefly, as the principal part
of the course consists of a study of the Colonial govern-
ments, the Articles of Confederation and their defects, the
formation of the Constitution and its adoption. Now the
study comprises a critical analysis of each article and
section of the American Constitution, thus enabling the
student to acquire a clear conception of the division of
powers of the National Government and the duties and
responsibilities of each department.
[ Two hours a week for one yeari\
168	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
COURSES IN MATHEMATICS.
A.
Algebra — This course for beginners in Algebra includes
a study of the primary fundamental principles necessary to
the courses which follow. The subjects dwelt upon in
particular are Factoring, Highest Common Factor and
Least Common Multiple, which are afterward applied in
their relation to Fractions and the reduction of Complex
Fractions. In as far as possible, concrete examples of
their applications to kindred scientific subjects are supplied
by the teacher.
[Five hours a week for one term}
B.
Algebra—In this course the study of Equations is be-
gun and continued through equations of the first degree.
Fractional Equations, Systems of Simultaneous Equations,
Involution, Evolution, Radicals and Exponents complete
the course which is supplemented wherever possible with
problems of practical application.
[Five hours a week for one term}
G
Algebra — This course begins with Quadratic Equations,
Pure and Affected, followed by Systems of Simultaneous
Quadratic Equations and those forms of Radical Equations
of Higher Degree which may be solved by quadratic
methods. Ratio and Proportion, Indeterminate Equations,
Surds, Imaginaries, Inequalities, the Progressions and the
Binomial Theorem finish the work in this course. As in
the preceding courses, special stress is placed upon the
application of the theory to such examples as will show its
application to elementary scientific subjects.
[Five hours a week for one term}
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
169
D*
Geometry — This subject is completed as far as the end
of Plane Geometry and includes a study of the theorems
with proofs of exercises and original propositions. The
habit of independent thinking is cultivated to some extent
by the solution of special proolems to concrete nature
intended to exhibit the relation of the processes studied to
practical examples.
[Five hours a week for one term ]
E.
Geometry — The study of Solid Geometry is taken up in
this term, the course being an extension of that of the
preceding term. Planes, Solid Angles, Polyhedrons, the
Cyclinder, Cone and Sphere are all studied in detail and the
solution of original exercises and propositions of applica-
tion is made a feature of the course.
[Five hours a week for one term^
R
Algebra and Geometry—This course which continues
through one scholastic year is designed especially for those
students who wish to take up the study of Engineering.
As this necessitates a thorough ground work in mathe-
matics, the first half of the year is given to a review of
Algebra and Geometry, three hours and two hours per week
respectively. The most important theorems and subjects
are again studied and a more comprehensive view of the
subject is attained in the generalizing of many theorems
and extending the range of others.
[Five hours a week for one termi\
G,
Algebra and Geometry—The work of this term is
entirely given up to an elementary exposition of the appli-
170	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
cation of mathematics to scientific problems and to analysis.
In lectures and class work actual problems representing
existing and practical conditions will be taken up, and the
derivation of approximate formulae and an elementary
study of curves derived from experiment are included.
[Five hours a week for one terrnf
H.
Trigonometry — A half year is given to this subject
which includes both Plane and Spherical Trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
elementary text-books. Special attention is given to
Goniometry on account of its application to Calculus, and
examples of a concrete nature are abundantly supplied.
[Five hours a week for one terrnf
COURSES IN SCIENCE.
A.
Physical Geography — An introductory and elementary
study of the earth and its environments. The student will
be led into a closer sympathy with the world about him.
The various types of plant and animal life together with
topographical and climatic conditions will be considered.
[Five hours a week for one termh\	,
B.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and demonstrations
with the stereopticon. The study of the human skeleton
including the physiology and hygiene of the bones. The
action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles. The
digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demonstrated
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	171
by models and charts. The anatomy and structure of the
nervous system and simple experiments on the same.
Text-book, Martin.
[Five hours a week for one term^\
C	.
Elementary Botany — A course for beginners in this
subject; it includes a study of the higher plants with
reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and seed.
An introduction to the lower forms of plant life and their
classification is also given. Text-book, Bastin’s Elements
of Botany.	'
[ Three hours a week for one termf
D.
Elementary Zoology—Includes an introduction to the
subjects with studies of representative forms and their
classification in the different groups of the animal king-
dom. The subject is taught by recitations and laboratory
work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Three hours a week fo? one termf
E» *	.
(a)	Elementary Chemistry — An introductory Course
of experimental lectures on familiar subjects such as water,
the air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena of
Chemistry. Reference-book, Remsen.
(b)	Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory Course to
accompany Course (a). A series of exercises to be per-
formed by each student, and having as their main object
the cultivation of the student’s powers of observation and
faculty of inductive reasoning. These exercises comprise
a study of the principal metalic elements, including their
VJ2	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
preparation, properties and more familiar compounds. The
directions for each experiment are made as brief as possible,
the observation of facts and the drawing of correct con-
clusions therefrom being left, so far as the nature of the
experiment will permit, to the pupil.
R*
Elementary Physics—Instruction in the Elementary
Physics is given by lectures and recitations in which the
general laws of Mechanics, Heat, Acoustics, Optics,
Electricity and Magnetism are presented. The course is
intended to meet the needs of those who desire a general
knowledge of the subject, as well as to lay the foundations
for' advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
\Three hours a week for one year.]
The Laboratory Work of this course consists of a series
of experiments which verify and apply practically the
fundamental principles of Physics. The student also
receives instruction in the use and careful handling of
apparatus, accurate observation, and correct deduction of
results. Neat and concise reports of all experiments are
kept by each student and form the basis for the grades
in this work. ’
[ Two hours {four hours of actual work ) each
week for one year^\
G.
Astronomy - Descriptive—This course is intended to
give students as much knowledge of astronomical facts as
* For the Preparatory School of Arts and Tetters this, course con-
sists of four hours of class work and one hour (two hours of actual
work) each week for one-half year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	173
can be obtained with only an elementary training in
mathematics. The study consists of a description of the
earth; its form, size, density and motion; a study of the
moon and her motions; the sun and its relation to the
earth ; an account of eclipses, refraction and aberration of
light. A description of the planets, their distances,
dimensions and physical conditions ; a study of parallax,
diurnal and annual; an account of meteors and comets.
A study of the stars and constellations; instruction is
given to enable students to name and locate the more
prominent. The subject of Cosmogony is considered briefly
as well as an explanation of the different systems of
Astronomy. The subject is given both by lectures and
text-book.
\Two hours a week for one yearly
COURSES IN FRENCH.
A,
Houghton’s French by Reading. Un Cas de Conscience.
Super’s Reading from French History.
\Five hours a week for one year.]
B.
French Composition. UAware, Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon. Le Roi des Montagnes.
\Three hours a week for one year. ]
G
La Poudre aux Yeux. Athalie. Hemani. Les Confes-
sions d'un Ouwier. Le Barbier de Seville. Le Malade
*
174 .
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
Imaginaire. Les Fourberies de Scapin. Pourceaugnac. Les
Facheux. LAmour Mededa. Le Misanthrope. Cinna.
Polyeucte.
> \Two hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN GERMAN.
A.
Grammar— Joynes- Meissner. Deutches Eesebuch, Bone.
Themes — Original and imitative work.
\Five hours a week for one yeari\
B.
Special Course for students in the English and Scientific
Courses.	.	.
Grammar—foynes- Meissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
\Three hours a week for one year.]
c.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
\Two hours a week for one year.] *
COURSES IN DRAWING.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of various
forms.
\Three hours a week for one termJ\
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
175
B.
Advance work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which afford
the study of light and shade.
\Three hours a week for one termk\
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK.
The Studies of the Preparatory Department here out-
lined are equivalent to those of a High School. There is
also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are taught
all the branches of a Grammar School, the students have
every opportunity of. preparing themselves as rapidly as
possible for High School and collegiate work.
176
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
MINIM DEPARTMENT.
For the care and training of boys under the age of
thirteen years, there has been established a department to
which the most scrupulous attention has always been paid
by the college authorities: it it is known as the Minim
Department.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Latin, French and German. Vocal Music and Drawing
involve no extra charge. The pupils of this department
are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day: Rising at 6:40
A. M., toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is a
short time given for exercise on the campus; half-past
seven, study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, study; a
quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by
recreation; half-past one, study; half-past three, recreation
and luncheon; half-past six, supper and recreation; half-
past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen that while
the minims devote less than six hours a day to study, they
are never more than two hours in succession in the class-
room. The recreation and exercise in the fresh air after
each two hours of study, unbend the mind and prepare the
boys to return to their classes refreshed and ready for
work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and the
study-hall. The presence, however, of the prefect, is far
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
177
from being a restraint on the amusement of the boys; for
while it is the duty of the prefects to insist that their young
charges shall always keep within the limits of the strictest
propriety, they, at the same time, take part in all sports,
organize games, and do everything in their power to foster
the love for exercise. The play-ground is a broad, level,
five-acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel-bars, and all other necessary
gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make good use of
them can be seen from their healthy, happy appearance,
which invariably attracts the notice of visitors. Connected
with the play-ground is a brick play-hall, 160 feet long •
and heated by steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy
or cold weather.
The sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend
the clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and
convenience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few
days. Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care is
taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the
clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES.
There are two societies in the Minim Department; that
of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for its
object to supply servers for the Church offices; and the
Sorin Association, which has been established with a view
to give the pupils a start, as early as possible, in elocution.
The society is presided over by one of the professors, who
finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the talent of these
interesting young orators. Meetings are held once a week,
after school hours. These meetings are a source of
pleasure as well as of profit. The members prepare
original compositions, deliver declamations, are trained to
debate, etc. Only the best behaved and more advanced-in
studies are admitted to membership. To encourage this
178	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
young Literary Society, a Gold Medal for Elocution is
annually awarded at Commencement to the most deserving
member.
GENERAL REMARKS.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to students more
advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to punish-
ment. Those in charge endeavor to govern by kindness
and gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense of
honor. The names of all whose conduct and application
to studies are satisfactory appear under the heads of Roll
of Honor and Class Honors. To find his name mentioned
in these rolls, is found to be as great a reward for the de-
serving pupil, as its non-appearance is a punishment for
the undeserving.
Then, too, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end of
two full years to those whose deportment has been unex-
ceptionable during that period. As this fact is made known
to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he generally
endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to receiving an
“ Honor.” The greatest care is taken to form their young
hearts to habits of virtue, and to inculcate the practice of
refined manners. Every effort is made to foster respect
and affection for parents, to whom they are expected to
write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims,
is their complete separation from the larger students. A
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall, afford-
ing ample accommodations for over one hundred pupils, is
devoted to their use. It is four stories in height, one hun-
dred and fifty feet long, and forty-five feet wide ; heated by
steam, supplied throughout with the Edison incandescent
electric light, and provided with hot and cold water. The
ceiling in the study-hall, class-rooms and sleeping
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME,	179
apartments is fifteen feet high. The windows are large
and numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation.
The Study-Hall commands a charming view from each of
its eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated with
statuary, pictures, plants, etc. Beside the pleasure the
■ Minims derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall,
their tastes are cultured by coming in contact with objects
so refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park,
which, with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not
a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall as well as to the
happiness of its inmates.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy parents
and others who frequently write for more detailed informa-
tion, will show that, while the Minims have every
advantage to aid them in acquiring a foundation for future
study, they have a home, where they enjoy the same ease
and freedom that they would enjoy under the care of their
mothers. For further information regarding the Minim
Department apply for a special catalogue.
180	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
EXPENSES, MINIM DEPARTMENT.
(For Students under Thirteen Years of Age*)
Matriculation Fee (First year only)..........$	10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing-, Mending, Bed and
Bedding, etc., per session of nearly ten months, 250.00
Payable in Advance, as follows:
First Payment : On Entrance in September r
Matriculation Fee....:........................$ 10.00
Board and Tuition............................ 150.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account......... 5.00
Gymnasium...................................... 2.50
Eecture and Concert Course..................... 1.00
Music (optional ). For rates see below.
Second Payment : On January 15th :
Balance on Board and Tuition.................$100.00
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons,
and the use of instrument in this department is $35;
for Violin, Guitar or Mandolin, $20.
Pupils who remain during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of
underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handkerchiefs,
six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or caps, two
pairs of shoes, a pair of rubbers, three suits of clothes, an
overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap, and a hand
mirror. This direction concerning clothing is a suggestion,
not a regulation, Any of the above supplies can be pro-
cured through the Students’ Office at the University.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
l&I
CATALOGUE OF STUDENTS
Matriculating during the Scholastic Year from
September, J904, to June, J905.
Ade, Glen C........................................Indiana
Adams, Harry E. • . .................  ............Indiana
Aguero, Wm. P.........................................Cuba
Ahern, John F.....................................Illinois
Ansoategui, Santiago............................Puerto	Rico
Anderson, Robert E....................................Ohio
Althen, Casper A..................................Illinois
Altgelt, Herman E....................................Texas
Abell, Walter R.................................  Maryland
Arnold, Arthur....................................Illinois
Barry, Richard...................................Illinois
Bagby, Claude A..................................Colorado
Brenneck, Charles H..............................Illinois
Byrne, Thomas A................................  Illinois
Beers, Herbert A.....................................Ohio
Butler, Thomas P............................ Pennsylvania
Berteling, John F............................Indiana
Bolin, Henry J...............................Wyoming
Baumgartner, Fred M........................  Indiana
Bradway, Omar F.....................................  Iowa
Barsatti, Victor...............................  .Illinois
Babbitt, Bertram H.
Beckmann, Rafael A
Brennen, Francis....
Brennan, Martin...
Bach, James Hv.......
Batlle, Evaristo R —
Bracken, Robert......
..............Arizona
.....Mexico
.....Pennsylvania
.....Missouri
.....Minnesota
Philippine Islands
.....Illinois
Beacom, Patrick A
Bosler, Wm. N....
Burns, Raymoud J
Borja, Victorino S-
Byrne, Francis P..
Baker, Howard S • ■
Brogan, John F....
Brown, Arthur A..
...........Iowa
.......Kentucky
....Pennsylvania
Philippine Islands
.... Massachusetts
.......Michigan
.........Oregon
..........Indiana
132
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Brooks Wm. H......................................Illinois
Bradway, Mark W.......................................Iowa
Burke, Cornelius J.................................Indiana
Brodman, Howard C.................................Illinois
Brady, James S....................................Illinois
Beilstein, Coyt E.....................................Ohio
Burtt, Fidelis N...................................Illinois
Burtt, Millard M..................................Illinois
Brown, Lyndon M.................................New York
Brennen, Joseph...........................    Pennsylvania
Byrns, Ashton V.......‘...........................Michigan
Byrns, William N..................................Michigan
Blakeslee, Raymond S........-.....................Michigan
Byrne, Paul V.....................................Illinois
Brinkmann, Clemens U. F...........................Illinois
Broderick, Lester R.............................  .Indiana
Baca, Horacio C de................................Colorado
Baca, Alfredo C de..............................  Colorado
Bunn, Edward L....................................Illinois
Broad, Charles Mark...............................Illinois
Bucher, Edmund V...................................Indiana
Beam, Carlos R....................................Illinois
Branen, George D..................................Illinois
Boyle, Joseph A.......................................Iowa
Beriault, Arthur J...............................  Indiana
Bolger, William A.................................Michigan
Brennan, Daniel P..................................Indiana
Buenger, George A.....................................Ohio
Burke, Eugene P...................................Illinois
Burke, Thomas E...................................Illinois
Cleary, Edward P..................................Illinois
Clifford, John E...................................Indiana
Cunningham, James V...............................Illinois
Cunningham, John J............................... Illinois
Collier, Francis T................................. Canada
Clear, C. Eugene..................................Illinois
Clark, J. Raymond.................................Illinois
Corbett, John K....................................Indiana
Cullinan, Edward J............................Pennsylvania
Connolly, Edward J................................Illinois
Creveling, Thomas F. H............................Missouri
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Clarke, Matthew G.................
Conover, Huntington St. Clair
Casparis, William R..........
Cressy, Sidney A.............-
Cortina, Manuel A............
Concha, M. Francisco,........
Corbett, James J.............
Cannon, Dominic J............
Carolin, Ralph J.............
Carey, William A.............
Corcoran, Wendell P..........
Cunningham, William B........
Callicrate, Dominic E........
Clarke, Robert R..........	,
Campbell, Matthew A..........
Church, Durant..*;...........
Coontz, J. Deo...............
Canedo, Ignacio..............
Canedo, Enrique O............
Cushing, John F..............
Cosgrove, Terence B..........
Carrigan, Joseph F...........
Coryell, Perry C..................
Cartier, Antoine..................
Cotter, William E • • •. •...
Connolly, Raymond A..........
Cahill, James R..............
Comerford, John M............
Comerford, George E..........
Carroll, Walter®.............
Carroll, Dewey...............
Comstock, Walter.............
Cullinan, Daniel A...........
Cahill, Kieron...............
Craig, Eeo F.................
Colahan, Wm. P...............
Cruz, Jose E.................
Carroll, Richard J......
Carroll, William.................
Caceres, Federico............
Corcoran, John J.............
Condon, Edward J.............
............Indiana
...Illinois
.......Ohio
.......Indiana
.......Mexico
Peru, South America
.......Illinois
.......Pennsylvania
.......Michigan
.Wisconsin
.......Illinois
.Illinois
.......Indiana
.......Illinois
.West Virginia
. District of Columbia
.......Missouri
.......Mexico
.......  Mexico
.Illinois
.Illinois
.......California
.......Colorado
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Illinois
.......Ohio
.......Ohio
.Illinois
.......Pennsylvania
.Minnesota
......South Dakota
............Mexico
......West Virginia
......Ohio
Peru, South America
......Michigan
......New	York
184
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Cooke, Arthur J............................... New York
Cohen, Samuel A....................................Indiana
Coad, Richard W...................................Nebraska
Curtice, W. H.....................................Kentucky
Caparo, Angel..........................Peru,	South America
Casparis, Kenneth E. • • •........................    Ohio
Cole, Charles E..................................Tennessee
Cahill, James E- • • ............................. - - Illinois
Cain, Patrick C...................................Illinois
Conron, Raymond F...............................  Illinois
Dubbs, Janies A.....
Draper, William A...
Duque, Alberto. ....
Donovan, William J....
Devine, Clement E...
Dwan, Joseph A......
Diebold, Howard J...
Dawson, Joseph P....
Denniston, Francis P...
Duque, Carlos A.....
Dunfee, Calvin E....
Drew, Chas. B. P.......
Donnelly, Ambrose B. C
Duarte, Adolfo M....
Dupen, Francis E....
Derrick, Frank......
Devaney, Andrew J...
Donovan, Harmor V....
Dechant, Wlliiam E. • • •
Dinan, Robert E.....
Daly, Byrne M.......
Drumm, Arthur G.... .
Dierssen, Herbert O.
D uncan, Walter.....
Dirks, John F.......
Duckett, Wm. W......
Del Valle, Manuel F....
Dee, Simon R...........
Dee, Wm. T............
DuBrul, Clarence J.....
DuBrul, Telford A.....
.Illinois
....Illinois
.Peru, South America
.South Dakota
.Ohio
....Illinois
.Pennsylvania
.West Virginia
...........Illinois
.Peru, South America
.-Illinois
.  Illinois
.Michigan
Colombia, South America
.Wisconsin
.Pennsylvania
..Indiana
.Pennsylvania
.a...............; .Ohio
.Indiana
.Ohio
.Pennsylvania
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Colorado
■.Michigan
.......Mexico
.......Pennsylvania
.......Illinois
.......Ohio
..................Ohio

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	185
Dunn, Richard E...............................Arkansas
Dowling, Herbert P.........................  Kentucky
Del Rio, Ignacio.............................  Mexico
Donovan, Richard W...........................Illinois
Daschback, Raymond J...................  Pennsylvania
Dent, Alfred C..............................Minnesota
Downs, Morris A.............................New York
Downs, William R............................New York
Donnelly, Thomas V..............................Texas
Donahue, Wesley J..........................  Illinois
Devers, John A............................. Pennsylvania
Durcan, Patrick J........................».....Illinois
Donahue, Joseph A...........................  Indiana
Donahoe, Leo A...............................Michigan
Dalton, Richard W.........................    Indiana
Dempsey, John F..................................Ohio
Duffey, John F..............................Wisconsin
Duffey, Mark M............................  Wisconsin
Enriquez, Eduardo W............................Mexico
East, Carrol W................................Indiana
Evans., Wm. H...........................Massachusetts
Ehrmann, Frank P.................................Ohio
Esch, August W..............................  Indiana
Emerson, William J.....................    California
Escher, Edward P.......................  Pennsylvania
Eckart, John J...............................Oklahoma
Engledrum, Harry C..........................  Indiana
Eden, Clifford D.............................Michigan
Eberhart, Ralph J............................Illinois
Fiffe, Arthur A................................Kansas
Fitzgibbon, Gerald I.........................Illinois
Frossard, Emil..........................Indian	Territory
Freudenstein, Benjamin M.......................Mexico
Fox, John McD...........................    Wisconsin
Fansler, Michael L............................Indiana
Fahey, Bernard S..............................Georgia
Feeley, William P..........................  Illinois
Fisher, Harold P.............................Kentucky
Fansler, George D.............................Indiana
Funk, Arthur S..........................    Wisconsin
i86
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Follansbee, Russell C
Follett, Judson G....
Fanning, Eloyd A....
Fanning, Francis E- •
Falvey, Mark D.......
Feldbausch, Jacob A.
Feig, Ralph S........
Francisco, Luis......
Fox, Mark H..........
Fransioli, Walter J...
Franchere, John E...
Farrell, Francis T...
..................Illinois
.......................Iowa
.................  Illinois
.................. Illinois
...Indiana
...Michigan
...Indiana
Euzon, Philippine Islands
...   Wisconsin
.................Tennessee
...........................Iowa
...........................Illinois
Fox, Oscar A.....................................Indiana
Fanger, John C......................................Ohio
Flaherty, James J...............................Illinois
Foik, Paul J......................................Canada
Finnegan, Edward P..............................Illinois
Finnegan, George J..............................New York
Forrestal, Peter P.............................Wisconsin
Galligan, William P.................................Arkansas
Gallart, Juan B......................................   Cuba
Garrity, Eeo F....................................  Illinois
Grande, Rafael F..................................... Mexico
Guerra, Arturo E......................................Mexico
Grove, Wm. H......................................  Illinois
Garcia, Manuel........................................Mexico
Gray, Neil......................................Michigan
Gray, Reid B....................................Michigan
Gloeckler, Harold C.............................Illinois
Gotfredson, Robert B........................  .Wisconsin
Gering, Charles...............................  Illinois
Gruber, Earl F...................................Indiana
Gaul, John C....................................Michigan
Golden, Clayton C......... .. <.................Michigan
Geoghegan, Harry J............................New York
Guerra, Samuel J..................................Mexico
Gannon, Thomas J...........................Massachusetts
Gallart, Jose P.....................................Cuba
Griffin, Peter M. ............................New York
Gowrie, William A............................... Cuba
Gavagan, Francis J.........................  Colprado
UNIVERSITY NOTRE DA\IE.
I$7
Genrich, Muri F....
Greene, Thomas E •.
Gottran, John F....
Gerrard, Simon D..
Geary, Arthur M...
Gallagher, Martin..
Greene, Clarence W
Goulden, George B..
Gray, Richard D....
Gagen, Harry E- • • •
Guthrie, David J....
Gehlert, Thomas J..
Guerra, Gustavo I..
Galligan, James J...
Gorka, Stanislaus J.
Gruza, Stanislaus A
Gavin, Stephen A.. <
.... Michigan
.....Illinois
.....Ohio
.....Indiana
Pennsylvania
.... Michigan
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.... Michigan
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
.... Michigan
.....Mexico
.. New York
.....Indiana
.....Indiana
Pennsylvania
Hammer, Thomas A..
Hill, Edwin W.... ...
Harris, Thomas M....
Healy, Thomas F....
Hidalgo, F. Arturo...
Hannigan, John J....
Hutzell, Oscar D......
Haney, Charles E •. • •
Hartzer, Francis W...
Hughes, John J........
Hoban, Martin C.......
Hughes, Wm. M....'
Hogan, Deo J..........
Hart, Laurence A......
Houser, Benjamin J..
Harrison, Edmund H
Harrison, George M..
Hilton, Carl H........
Heeb, Louis B.........
Hirtenstein, Joseph..
Hickman, Harold E • •
Hill, Forest R........
Hilton, Albertus A...
Holliday, Charles J..
.......... .New York
.......  Illinois
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
Peru, South America
.......Michigan
.......Indiana
.......Indiana
.......Indiana
.......Illinois
.......Indiana
.......Nebraska
.......Ohio
.......Pennsylvania
.......Indiana
........New Mexico
........New Mexico
.New Mexico
........Illinois
........Illinois
...........New York
...........Iowa
............Illinois
.............Illinois
i
188	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Hanzel, Francis J..........................Minnesota
Hoff, Albert S.............................Wisconsin
Hermann, George	A........................Illinois
Hurst, Roscoe P.............................Illinois
Hudson, Thomas	E............................Ohio
Harbin, Frank W.............................Tennessee
Harman, Robert W...................... .	.West Virginia
Hunt, Andrew E.................................  Ohio
Higgins, Harry C.-..........................     Illinois
Herr, Stephen H..................................Illinois
Harrington, Raymond R............................Illinois
Hickey, Karl F.......................................Ohio
Hilton, Hoyt W.................................  Illinois
Hartnett, Wm. A...................................New	York
Halloran. James P............................South	Dakota
Heyl, Wm. J............'....................Pennsylvania
Hazinski, Alexander S...........................  Indiana
Harman, John D..............................West	Virginia
Hague, Harry G.................................Illinois
Hennessey, William J...........................Colorado
Hagerty, Timothy P............................  Indiana
Hagerty, Cornelius J............................Indiana
Haggerty, Patrick J........................Pennsylvania
Hauyz, Martin J..................................Indiana
Heiser, Allen J..................................Indiana
Horworth, George J...............................I ndiana
Hebert, Alfred J...............................Michigan
Hebert, Peter X.............................   Michigan
Hosinski, Sylvester A...........................Indiana
Ill, Alphonse P
Ohio
Joyce, Walter L.................'.............Wisconsin
Jaskowiak, Wenceslaus I..............•..........Indiana
Jordan, James D............................Pennsylvania
Jamieson, Will’am D............................Illinois
Jones, Edw’ard H.................................  Iowa
Jones, Harrod M....................................Iowa
Jarquin, Manuel E...............:	.................Cuba
Jennings, James E..........'....................Indiana
Johnson, Charles H.........................South	Dakota
Keach, Eeroy J
Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
King, Charles B.......................... Pennsylvania
Kennedy, Alexander J........................  Illinois
Kasper, Francis P.............................Illinois
Kemper, Henry M...............................Illinois
Knox, DeWitt..................................... Utah
Knox, George G....................................Utah
Kamm, Adolph X.................................Indiana
Kelley, Clarence J............................Illinois
Kyle, Joseph F................................Illinois
Kuhn, Henry T.................................Michigan
Kinney, John E..................................  Ohio
Kenney, James E...................................Ohio
Kelley, Charles H............................Minnesota
Knauf, Arthur R..............................Wisconsin
Krost, Gerard N................................Indiana
Knight, Edgar E...............................Michigan
Kasper, Wm. H.................................Illinois
Keefe, Daniel J...............................Michigan
Kelley, Eouis J................................Indiana
Kenny, Edward J...........................Pennsylvania
Kennedy, Clarence J.........................  Illinois
Keefe, Edward J.............................  Michigan
Kotte, Albert A...................................Ohio
Kasper, Robert A............................  Illinois
Keefe, James T....................................Iowa
King, Thurman P............................. Wisconsin
Kelly, Paul W..................................Indiana
Kuhn, Adelbert J..............................Michigan
Koenig, Norman H..............................Michigan
Kelly, John W..................................Indiana
Kenefick, Matthew J............................Indiana
Kenny, Thomas J...........................Pennsylvania
Krembs, Moritz...............................Wisconsin
Kuhn, Ferdinand J.... ....................... Michigan
Kranz, Chester R..................................Iowa
Kranz, Wilbur C...................................Iowa
Kranz, Donald A.......=...........................Iowa
Kranz, Herbert E................................  Iowa
Krause, Edmund E..............................Illinois
Kobak, Edgar..................................Illinois
Kasper, Simeon M..............................Illinois
Kesselhuth, Howard W.............................Wisconsin	•
190	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Kavanaugh, John R................................Illinois
Eandenberger Carl S.'..........................Illinois
Eawler, Francis J.............................Kentucky
Eawler, William C..............................Kentucky
Eennertz, William A................................Ohio
Eahey, Thomas A.................................Indiana
Eneas, Philip H.................................Indiana
Eewis, Joel C..................................Illinois
Eange, Bernard H...........................Pennsylvania
Eunden de, Charles..............................Belgium
Eynch, John D..................................Illinois
Eantry, Joseph T...............................Illinois
Eally, Addis E.....................................Iowa
Eyons, Thomas D............................South	Dakota
Eoughran, Francis J............................Illinois
Eittle, Josiah.................................Illinois
Eawrence, Roscoe E.............................Illinois
Eouisell, Clifton M.............................Alabama
Eangdon, J. EeRoy..............................Nebraska
Eangendorf, Samuel.............................Illinois
Eynch, John J..................................Illinois
Eamb, Rex E....................................Michigan
Eawl ess, John C...............................Illinois
Eannan, Dennis E...............................Illinois
Eechleitner, George J........................New York
Medrano, Joachim H.................................Cuba
Murphy, Daniel E...............................Illinois
Moran, Joseph A.................................Indiana
Mailman, End wig .............................Wisconsin
Morazzani, Antonio S.........................Puerto Rico
Murphy, John P..................................Indiana
Murphy, Michael C..........................Pennsylvania
Monaghan, Edward J.........................Pennsylvania
Madden, Daniel E.............................  Illinois
Moran, John B...........‘......................Michigan
Maguire, Thomas 0..............................Illinois
Miller, Hugh E.....................................Ohio
Milins, George A.............................  New	York
Mahoney, Henry C.............................New York
Martin, Eester G...............................Missouri
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. *	191
May, Henry F..........
Miltner, Charles C....
Mannion, Thomas D...
Mathis, Michael A....
Miller, Paul J........
Misch, Edgar J........
Marshall, Charles J....
Maher, Thomas F.......
Malony, William J. ...
Moore, John E.........
Malloy, Bernard J.....
Munoz, Manuel D.......
Munoz, Gonzalo.......
Munoz, Ignacio C......
Milner, Jay S.........
Muriel, Manuel........
Murray, Francis J.....
Marquez, Miguel J....
Martinez, Hermilo.....
Miller, Earl F........
Madden. Ralph C.......
Muriel, Jose...........
Malloy, Patrick M....
Murphy, William V. ..
Miller, Adolph S.......
Mangan, Donis A.......
Medrando, Higinio....
Minotti, Charles R.. /..
Martinelli, Gregorio E
Mahoney, Daniel F....
Martin, James J.......
Morrison, Denis A.....
Maroney, Joseph J.....
Mooney. Edward D • • •
Molina,. Alejandro E •.
Milne, Guy W..........
McCullough, John A..
McFarland, Clarence J.
..........Rhode Island
..........Michigan
.....Canada
.....Indiana
.....  Indiana
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Indiana
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
.....Utah
.....       Mexico
.....Illinois
.....Cuba
................Mexico
.....Wisconsin
.....Illinois
.....Mexico
.....  Iowa
.....  Illinois
.....Colorado
........... North Dakota
.....Cuba
.....West Virginia
.....Peru, South America
.....New	York
.....Illinois
• • ..Iowa
.Indiana
.....Minnesota
.Peru, South America
.Illinois
.Illinois
...................Ohio

McMann, George W.............................Illinois
McAleenan, Howard W..........................Illinois
McDermott, Edward L......................Pennsylvania
McMorran, William E..........................Illinois
19?
ft
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
McKindley, Daniel E......................  Indiana
McCaffrey, John M..........................Indiana
McKindley, Hugh A..........................Indiana
McCawley, Francis J.......................Kentucky
McCauley, Hugh B.........................Rhode	Island
McGinn, John C...........................Rhode	Island
McQuaid, William A.........................Indiana
McBlhone, Francis J...................Pennsylvania
McGlew, Henry J............................Indiana
McFadden, George J........................... Iowa
McKearney, William A..........................Ohio
Mclnerny, Joseph W.........................Indiana
McNerny, Lawrence ........................Illinois
McFarland, Alex. W............................Ohio
McNabb, Clyde L...........................Illinois
McNair, John G............................Missouri
McGinnis, Owen M..........................Illinois
McClung, James F.........................  Indiana
McDermont, Horace G........................New	York
McCabe, Laurence B................... Pennsylvania
McDonald, Lawrence........................Illinois
McDonald, David...........................Illinois
McLoughlin, George G......................Illinois
McCann, Charles A.........................Nebraska
McGuinness, Michael J......................New	Mexico -
McGrath, Frank................................Ohio
McBride, Edmund L.....................Pennsylvania
McNamara, Adrain A.........................New	York
McGannon, Thomas P...................  New	York
McIntyre, Palmer............................Illinois
McCarty, Franklin B................... Massachusetts
McDonald, Cassius M.........................Illinois
McDonald, Edwin A..............................Texas
McCarthy, Frank A...............................Iowa
McCarty, William H.....................Massachusetts
McDermont, Charles T........................New	York
McDermont, Chapman H.....................New York
McCaffrey, John A.....................Pennsylvania
McDermott, Charters M....................Wisconsin
McEvoy, Thomas P.........................New York
Nieto, Francisco G.... ......................    Mexico
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
193
Nugent, Fred G....................................Illinois
Nelson, John W....................................Illinois
Niedbalski, Stanislaus W...........................Indiana
Nabers, Theodore H....................................Iowa
Nieto, Alfred^ G....................................Mexico
O’Shea, John P................................. Indiana
O’Neill, John W..............................Wisconsin
O’Neill, John C................................Illinois
O’Connor, Daniel J................... .........Illinois
O’Connor, John J...............................Indiana
0’Gorman, Samuel.........................Massachusetts
Opfergelt, Edward A.............................Illinois
O’Don’nell, T. Raymond...........................Indiana
Olston, Francis M...........................West	Virginia
O’Reilly, Francis W...............................Kansas
O’Deary, James..................................Illinois
O’Brien, William C..................................Ohio
O ’ D on n ell, Walter J........................Michigan
O’Donnell, Charles D.............................Indiana
O'Shea, William J. *.............................Indiana
O’Shea, Denis A.................................Illinois
Oberst, Albert P................................Kentucky
O’Brien, John F..................................Indiana
O’Brien, Karl P.............................Pennsylvania
O’Brien, Simon A......................................New	York
O’Connell, Ambrose A................................Iowa
O’Flynn, Edward F.,..............................Montana
Ortiz, Manuel I....................................Puerto	Rico
O’Mara, John T..................................Illinois
O’Connor, Maurice P..............................Indiana
O’Connor, Charles B............................ New	York
O’Donnell, Aloysius J.......................Pennsylvania
Perce, William E.............................•.....Illinois
Pino, Arturo..........................Peru,	South America
Pohlman, John F..................................Indiana
Pryor, Francis J................................Colorado
Pardo, Pedro....................................  Mexico
Powers, Deo F...................................New	York
Power, Deo E....................................Illinois
Papin, Henry D......................................Ohio
194
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DIMS.
Parish., Vamum A......................................Illinois
Paine, Robert E..........................................Texas
Powell, William P.........,.......................  •	■ - Illinois
Peterman, Franklin H.................................Louisiana
Probst, Rudolph 0......................................Indiana
Perez, Juan P.........................................Cuba
Palomar, Luis.......................................Mexico
Paupa, Joseph.....................................Illinois
Prada, Jose V.......................................Mexico
Price, F. Marion..................................Missouri
Pulver, Herbert R...............................  Illinois
Peil, Edward F...................................Wisconsin
Parker, George H............................. Michigan
Parker, John J................................Virginia
Pagaduan, Wm..........................Philippine	Islands
Popp, Thomas J.........................  .Pennsylvania
Quinn, John C...........................Pennsylvania
Quevedo, Manuel G................................Mexico
Quiros, Franciso A...............................Mexico
Quinlan, Norbert A.............................Illinois
Quinlan, James J..................................Illinois
Quinlan, Joseph A.................................Illinois
Quigley, James F.............................North	Dakota
Ryan, D. Arthur...............................Minnesota
Roach, Norman L....................................Ohio
Roach, Joseph A....................................Ohio
Roach, John W......................................Iowa
Reed, Penrose...................................Wyoming
Reisner, Benjamin A...............................Texas
Rousseau, Edward L.............................Nebraska
Railton, Raymond A.............................Illinois
Rush, Eugene At................................Illinois
Riley, Thomas H.................................Indiana
Riley, William J................................Indiana
Roan, Frank J......................................Ohio
Ryan, Ralph P.................................Minnesota
Roy, Charles J..................................Indiana
Riordan, Michael J.............................Michigan
Rozewicz, Anthony V.............................Indiana
Ryan, Thomas E.................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
195
Ryan, John P......................................Illinois
Rennacker, Roy G..................................Illinois
Riordan, Stephen F................................Illinois
Rnsh, Charles E....................................Indiana
Rayneri, Virgilio N...................................Cuba
Roberts, Harry N..................................Illinois
Rabb, Donald S...............................'.....Illinois
Rothinghouse, Ernest..
Rubio, Ramon G........
Ronin, Fred J.........
Russell, William C....
Rousseau, Benjamin A
Roberts, Thomas B....
Rempe, George A.......
Richmond, DeRoy A. .
Roe, Benjamin.........
Roe, Maurice..........
Rempe, Tester W.......
Ryan, Wm. P...........
Richmond, Wilfred A.
Robertson, John M....
Roberts, Godfrey M...
Reasoner, Cherry......
Rubio, Marcelino G...
Rubio, Manuel G.......
Robinson, Wm. F.......
Rowan, George D.......
Rico, Graciano........
Rice, Wm. H...........
Reiss, Clemens A......
.......Indiana
.......Cuba
.......Illinois
........ Illinois
.......Illinois
.... South Dakota
.Illinois
.Minnesota
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Illinois
.Minnesota
.......Colorado
.... South Dakota
....Tennessee
....Cuba
....  Cuba
....Mississippi
....Iowa
Philippine Islands
....Pennsylvania
....Wisconsin
Smith, Deonard F................................Indiana
Singeon, Edgar J...............................Illinois
Schmitt, William C............................Minnesota
Sullivan, George C r.........................  Illinois
Sheehan, John W..............................  Illinois
Sarinana, Federico.............................  Mexico
Schwab, Edward H...........................Pennsylvania
Saley,.Robert D....................................Iowa
Suarez, Eladio...................................  Cuba
Sullivan, William..................................Ohio
Symonds, Edward D............................  Illinois
196
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Sorg, Claude A......................................Ohio
Sullivan, Francis J.................................Ohio
Schmitt, Alfred H.................................  Ohio
Sawyer, John X..............................Pennsylvania
Schwartz, Frank A...............................Illinois
Sauerhering, Alolph E..........................Wisconsin
Symonds, Henry R................................Illinois
Springer, Albert G..............................Colorado
Smith, Harry C..................................Illinois
Stout, Walter S.... ..............................Canada
Schroeder, Henry J..............................Michigan
Sexton, Thomas G................................Illinois
Schick, Francis..................................Indiana
Sarinana, Enrique..................................Mexico	.
Sarinana, Alfonso...............................  Mexico
Smith, Charles J................................Illinois
Schneider, Harold C.............................Illinois
Smith, F. Dickason..............._..............Illinois
Schmitt, Rudolph J..................................Ohio
Schmitz, Frank A................................Illinois
Sanchez, Carlos...................................Mexico
Sloan, Thomas J.................................Illinois
Stueve, Winfred^H...................................Ohio
Scott, Albert F.................................Illinois
Strauss, Fred H. A..............................Illinois
Scales, John J...................................New	York
Stoakes, E- Mitchell........................Pennsylvania
Scott, Robert E...............................Washington
Seidel, Frederick W..............................Indiana
Stuhlfauth, Jacob..............................Wisconsin
Sheedy, Joseph A..................................Canada
Steiner, William A........................  Pennsylvania
Szamecki, Stanislaus P...........................Indiana
Sypniewski, Stanislaus A.......................  Indiana
Syzbowicz, Eeo J.....................'...........Indiana
Sobolewski, Wenceslaus C........................Illinois
Shaughnessey, Francis J.........................Illinois
Sudheimer, Thomas W............................Minnesota
Silver, Nathan..................................Illinois
Simon, Arturo T...................................  Cuba
Shea, John F...............................Massachusetts
Shea, Michael J............................Massachusetts
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
197
Salmon, Louis J....
Sinnott, Joseph D ..
Stevens, Walter A..
Sheehan, Clarence J
Stopper, Anthony J.
Shenk, Robert R...
... New York
.....Oregon
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
Pennsylvania
......Ohio
Timmins, Charles J...
Tillett, Grover C.....
Thoward, Benjamin F
Tufts, Irving S.......
Tufts, John R.........
Taylor, James A........
Tello, Manuel A.......
Tello, Ricardo A.......
Tyler, Carl B.........
Terry, Clifford H.....
Torrefranca, Cirilo....
Trumbull, Selden. ....
Thompson, Roy S • • • •
Taylor, Clifford V....
Talifero, William A...
Toth, Joseph M........
Tracy, Charles L......
Toba, Francisco.......
Trevino, Ricardo A....
Trevino, Gustavo L • - •
Tobin, Thomas.........
Thompson, Edward A
.....Indiana
.....Indiana
.....Michigan
.........Michigan
.....Illinois
Peru, South America
Peru, South America
.....’......Ohio
.....Illinois
... Philippine Islands
.............Illinois
......Illinois
......Illinois
......Michigan
......Indiana
.......Michigan
......Mexico
......Mexico
......Mexico
......South Dakota
......Michigan
f
Ungson, Rafael G
Uribe, Rafael....
Upman, Walter F
Uhrich, Maurus J.
Philippine Islands
......Mexico
......Illinois
......Washington
Vernaza, Guillermo O..
Veazey, Oscar E........
Vanderhoof, Edward F,
• Vernaza, Carlos N......
Vallejo, Vincente......
Vallejo, Alfonso.......
Vallecilla, Leonardo...
Colombia, South America
..........West Virginia
..........  Indiana
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
198	UNIVERSITY OB NOTRB DAMB.
Voigt, John R....................................Indiana
Vogel, Frank H......................................Ohio
Villanueva, Augustin P............................Mexico
Villanueva, Luis S................................Mexico
Van Rie, Leo P...................................Indiana
Woods, Janies A.................................Colorado
Weber, C. Russell...............................Illinois
Wessell, John H.....................................Ohio
Wilce, Horace D.................................Illinois
Wessell, Herbert J..................................Ohio
Wittenberg, Jack C........................West Virginia
Washburn, George B..............................Illinois
Williams, Lawrence A........................Pennsylvania
Wessel, Charles H.........................*.........Ohio
Warren, Homer S.................................Illinois
Welsh, Leo J....................................Illinois
Wilson, Richard B...............................Illinois
White, Wm. A....................................Illinois
Weist, John L.................................Washington
Weinman, Cletus A................................. — Ohio
Woolverton, Bari B...............................Indiana
Watts, Leo..........................................Ohio
White, Benjamin H.............................  Illinois
Wunsch, Bdmund G...............................Minnesota
Wenninger, Francis J.............................Indiana
Weisbecker, Aloysius J.......................... Indiana
Wroble, John W...................................Indiana
White, G. Roy...................................Illinois
White, Robert L..................-..............Illinois
Whalen, Joseph M................................... Iowa
Watkins, James..................................Michigan
Wrape, Harold J.................................Missouri
Winter, Wm. J...............................Pennsylvania
Winter, August A............................Pennsylvania
Winter, Charles A...........................Pennsylvania
Wagner, Louis B..................................Illinois
Waldorf, Rufus W................................Illinois
Worden, John....................................New	York
Wadden, John W............................South Dakota
Welch, Thomas J.................................Illinois
V
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAMB.
I9S
Young, Blvie K.......
Yrisarri, Jacobo J...
Yrisarri, Eduardo C
....Indiana
....Mexico
New Mexico
Zink, Frank A......................................Ohio
Zerhusen, Francis X...........................Kentucky
Sixty - First
Annual Commencement*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	203
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
- The Honorable Marcus Kavanagh, Chicago., Illinois.
The Degree of Master of Arts in Philosophy was con-
ferred on
Michael J. Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Bernard S. Fahy, Rome, Georgia.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
William Duffen Jamieson, Chicago, Illinois.
Henry M. Kemper, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on
Daniel J. O’Connor, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
Louis J. Salmon, Syracuse, New York.
Virgilio N. Rayneri y Piedra, Havana, Cuba.
Walter A. Stevens, Logansport, Indiana.
John C. O’Neill, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineer-
ing was conferred on
Ricardo A. Trevino y Barrera, Monterey, Mexico.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
ferred on
John Worden, Ossining, New York.
John Read Voigt, Jeffersonville, Indiana.
Clarence J. Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois. .
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
John William O’Neill, Mineral Point, Wisconsin.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
' Durant Church, Washington, District of Columbia.
Bari F. Gruber, Union City, Indiana.
Francis J. Loughran, Joliet, Illinois. -
204	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
William J. Mahoney, Brookfield, Massachusetts.
Henry J. McGlew, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Daniel L. Murphy, Odell, Illinois.
John J. O’Connor, Delphi, Indiana.
Edward H. Schwab, Loretto, Pennsylvania.
Thomas J. Welch, Moline, Illinois.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical
Chemist was conferred on ■
Joseph Alfred Moran, Indianapolis, Indiana. •
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on
Patrick Ambrose Beacom, Sheldon, Iowa.
Charles A. M. Winter, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Leo P. Van Rie, Mishawaka, Indiana. ?
Joaquin H. Medrano y Polanco, Guantanamo, Cuba.
Certificate for Short Course in Electrical Engineering was
conferred on
Raymond J. Burns, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Howard J. Diebold, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
COMMERCIAL DIPLOMAS.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Thomas P. Butler, Allegheny, Pennsylvania.
George E. Washburn, Chicago, Illinois.
Herbert P. Dowling, Lexington Kentucky.
John C. Fanger, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Mark T. Falvey, San Pierre, Indiana.
Lawrence McDonald, Seward, Illinois.
David McDonald, Seward, Illinois.
John W. Nelson, Illiopolis, Illinois.
Manuel G. Rubio, Sancti Spiritus, Cuba.
Edward G. Wunsch, Morris, Minnesota.
Charles P. Holliday, Monmouth, Illinois.
James Allan Dubbs, Mendota, Ill.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
PRIZE MEDALS
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan,
of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Course, senior year, was
not awarded.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall having
the best record for the scholastic year was
awarded to
Lawrence A. Williams, Bast Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
The Meehan Gold Medal, for Bnglish Bssays, presented
by Mrs. James Meehan, Covington, Kentucky,
was not awarded.
The Breen Gold Medal, for Oratory, donated by the Hon.
William-P. Breen, BL- D., ’02 of Bort Wayne,
was awarded to
Stephen A. Gavin, Scranton, Pennsylvania.
The Ellsworth C- Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
A. S. Hughes, Denver, Colorado, for the best
record in Mathematics (Civil Bugineering Course)
was not awarded.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal, for Chris-
tian Doctrine in Sorin Hall, was awarded to
Henry M. Kemper, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
A, 1 st Division, was awarded to
John J. Scales, Brooklyn, New York.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
A, 2d Division, was awarded to
Frank A. McCarthy, Britt, Iowa.
206	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The Quinn Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral
Course B, ist Division, presented by the Rev. John
J. Quinn, A. B., ’83, Pastor, St. John’s Church,
Peoria, Illinois, was awarded to
Franklin B. McCarty, Lynn, Massachusetts.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine
in Moral Course B, 2d Division, presented by the
Reverend M. J. Fitzsimmons, Rector of Holy
Name Cathedral, Chicago, was awarded to
Fdward J. Condon, Dobbs Ferry, New York.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B. 3d Division, was awarded to
John F. Brogan, The Dalles, Oregon.
The Mooney Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, First Course, presented by the Rev. Nathan
J. Mooney, ’77, Rector of St. Columbkille’s
Church, Chicago, was awarded to
Thomas P. Butler, Allegheny, Pennsylvania.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
B, 4th Division, was awarded to
David McDonald, Seward, Illinois.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, Second Course, presented by the Rev. F. J.
Barry, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of Chicago,
was not awarded.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in Senior
Class, Commercial Course, was awarded to
David McDonald, Seward, Illinois.
Gold Medal for the best record in the last two years of the
Preparatory Latin Course was awarded to
Thomas L. Mannion, Arin Prior, Canada.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. '	207
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold, presented in memory of
the late Hon. Clement Studebaker, South Bend,
Indiana, for debating work, was awarded as
follows:	'
Forty Dollars to William A. Bolger,’ Chicago.
Twenty Dollars to Terrence B. Cosgrove, Seneca,
Illinois.
Fifteen Dollars to Patrick A. Malloy, Salix,
Iowa.
The Barry Elocution Medal in the Collegiate Department,
donated by the Hon. P. T. Barry of Chicago, was
awarded to
William Duffen Jamieson, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Elocution in the Preparatory Course
was awarded to
Hoyt W. Hilton, Chicago, Illinois.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
The Abercrombie Gold Medal for General Excellence wa»
awarded to
William P. Ryan, Lake Forest, Illinois.
The Sorin Elocution Gold Medal was awarded to
Joseph Hirtenstein, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to
Francis Schick, Terre Haute, Indiana.
The Gold Medal for Letter -Writing was awarded to
Jose V. Prada, Celaya, Mexico.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Carlos A. Duque, Cuzco, Peru, South America.
208	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
The Gold Medal for Politeness was awarded to
Horace G. McDermont, New York City.
The Gold Medal for Mandolin was awarded to
Bdward F. Peil, Racine, Wisconsin.
The Gold Medal for Violin was awarded to
Herbert B. Kranz, DesMoines, Iowa.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded to
Joseph Brennan, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The Silver Medal for Violin was awarded to
Benjamin Roe, Chicago, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Composition was awarded to
William B. Cotter, Chicago, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Paul V. Byrne, Lake Forest, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Lester W. Rempe, Chicago, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Letter-Writing was
awarded to
Antoine Cartier, Chicago, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Vocal Music was
awarded to
Ashton V. Byrns, Ishpeming, Michigan.
The Silver Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded
to
J. LeRoy Langdon, Gretna, Nebraska.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
2'09
FIRST HONOR AWARDS.
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby, Brownson,
and St. Joseph Halls who have attained an average of at least 90
per cent, for scholarship and deportment during the scholastic year.
The first honor awarded for the first year takes the form of a
diploma ; that awarded for two years of satisfactory work is a gold
medal. This medal may be renewed from year to year.]
SORIN HALL.
First Hono/Gold Medals were awarded to
Harold P. Fisher, Paducah, Kentucky.
Clarence J. Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois (renewal).
John Reed Voigt, Jeffersonville, Indiana.
Ricardo A. Trevino, Monterey, Mexico.
Evaristo R. Batlle, Barcelonia, Spain (renewal).
CORBY HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Edwin A. McDonald, Houston, Texas.
Henry M. Kemper, Chicago, Illinois (renewal).
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals — none awarded this year.
ST. JOSEPH HALL.
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Francis A. Zink, Canton, Ohio.
Varnum A. Parrish, Momence, Illinois.
SORIN HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Eduardo W. Enriquez, Chihuahua, Mexico.
William Duffen Jamieson, Chicago, Illinois.
210
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Anthony J. Stopper, Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
John Francis Cushing, Chicago, Illinois.
Gustavo I/. Trevino, Monterey, Mexico.
CORBY HALL,
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Herman B. Altgelt, New Braunfels, Texas.
Francis J. Hanzel, New Prague, Minnesota.
Thomas Paul McGannon, Corning, New York.
Franklin B. McCarty, Lynn, Massachusetts.
Frank A. McCarthy, Britt, Iowa.
Ambrose A. O’Connell, Ottumwa, Iowa.
William B Perce, Hanover, Illinois.
John W. Sheehan, Springfield, Illinois.
Bdward H. Schwab, Loretto, Pennsylvania.
BROWNSON HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
James S. Brady, Chicago, Illinois.
Frank Derrick, Oil City, Pennsylvania.
Denis B. Lannan, Odell, Illinois.
Antonio S. Morazzani, Guayama, Puerto Rico.
Michael J. McGuinness, Old Alberquerque, New Mwdt^.
Lawrence McDonald, Seward, Illinois.
David McDonald, Seward, Illinois.
ST. JOSEPH HALL.
First Honor Diplomas were awarded to
Richard Barry, Chicago, Illinois.
Bdward P. Cleary, Momence, Illinois.
James V. Cunningham, Chicago, Illinois.
John F. Dempsey, Zanesville, Ohio.
Patrick M. Malloy, Salix, Iowa.
Bdward F. O’Flynn, Butte, Montana.
WNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
211
DEPORTMENT PRIZE MEDALS.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable. ]
CARROLL HALL
•Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to Thomas
P. Butler, William W. Duckett, Juan B. Gallart (renewal),
John T. O’Mara, Robert R. Shenk, Edward L. Symonds
(renewal), Richard B. Wilson, Thomas B. Roberts, Philip
H. Lucas, Bertram H. Babbitt.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to James A.
Woods, John R. Kavanaugh, Louis B. Heeb, Eduardo C.
Yrisarri, Joseph Hirtenstein, Clemens U. F. Brinkmann,
Oscar E. Veazey, Lester W. Rempe (renewal), Charles
Gering.	.
[Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment has given general satisfaction. ]
CARROLL HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment — none awarded this year.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to Lester
R. Broderick, Irving S. Tufts, Raymond A. Connolly, E.
Dickason Smith, Simeon M. Kasper, George H. Parker.
Jr
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll and St.
Edward’s Halls who have followed the courses of the University
at least two terms, and whose deportment during the whole time
has been unexceptionable.	-
212	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
CARROLL HALL.
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to Henry
J. Bolin, .Rafael A. Beckman, C. Bugene Clear, John K.
Corbett, Arthur G. Drumm, Herbert O. Dierssen, Walter
Duncan, Gerald I. Fitzgibbon, Deo F. Garrity, Andrew
L. Hunt, Stephen H. Herr, Karl F. Hickey, William J.
Heyl, Adolph X. Kamm, Bdgar L- Knight, Bernard H.
Lange, Gregorio B. Martinnelli, Bdward L. McDermott,
Alfredo G. Nieto, Thomas H. Riley, William J. Riley,
Frank J. Roan, Brnest Rothinghouse, Ramon G. Rubio,
Carlos N. Vern aza, George B. Washburn, Lawrence A.
Williams, Charles H. Wessel.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to Forest R.
Hill, Carlos A. Duque, Guillermo 0. Vernaza, Manuel A.
Tello, Ricardo A. Tello, Josiah Little, Chester R. Kranz,
Wilbur C. Kranz, William H. Grove, Fidelis N. Burtt,
Millard M. Burtt, J. LeRoy Langdon, Albertus A. Hilton,
George L. Comerford, F. Marion Price, C. Russell Weber,
Bdgar Kobak, Walter Carroll, T. Raymond O’Donnell,
James R. Cahill, Manuel Garcia, Alfonso Sarinana,
Bnrique Sarinana, George M. Harrison, Bdmund H.
Harrison, Lyndon M. Brown, Harold C. Gloeckler, Neil
Gray, Herbert R. Pulver, George A. Milius, Francis M.
Olston, Carl H. Hilton, Charles J. Smith, Henry C.
Mahony, Clifton M. Louisell, John H. Wessel, Herbert J.
Wessel, John G. McNair, Francis W. O’Reilly, Owen M.
McGinnis, Godfrey M. Roberts, Antoine Cartier, Bdward
F. Peil, Horace G. McDermont.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
213
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no need
of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without endow-
ment, and its work is seriously hampered because it has
no resources except the fees of students. There are two
scholarships and the interest from these foundations is used
in educating and boarding two students.
There were in 1901 1,452 Catholic students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and very
many of these will lose their faith, and all will be weak-
ened in that faith, because our people look upon collegiate
institutions as the property of private corporations which
are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys that can not
pay the expense of education, and who therefore are
obliged to go to non-Catholic colleges to the detriment of
their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and board
a student as long as the University exists As one bursar
is graduated another can take his place. The founder of
the scholarship, of course, always has the privilege of
appointing the student. -•
We lack money for a library building, and for two more
dwelling-halls like Sorin Hall.	.
Foundations for scholarships are also a pressing need.
There is no Library fund for the purchase of new books.
The names of benefactors will be given to all foundations.
214
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
BEQUESTS SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS FORM:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC.
I give, devise and bequeath to the UNIVERSITY
OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC, an institution incor-
porated under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
located at Notre Dame, Indiana...........
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	21^
INDEX.
Admission to:
Collegiate Courses, the............................. 97
Conditional Admission............................... 98
Department of Arts and Letters......................100
Department of Science........................  .....106
Department of Architecure...........................134
Department of Civil Engineering...................  I2»
Department of Electrical Engineering................129
Department of Law...................................139
Department of Mechanical Engineering................123
Department of Pharmacy..............................114
Advanced Standing, admission to......................... 98
Anatomy, Courses in......................................   88
Architecture, Courses in................................ 68
Scheme of Courses...................................135
Astronomy, Course in.................................... 60
ATHLETICS............................................... 25
Faculty Board in Athletics.......................... 26
Bacteriology, Course in................................. 90
BIOLOGY, Courses in...................................   87
Scheme of Courses...................................113
Laboratory Fees..........................107,	112, 115, 118
Board of Trustees......................................   4
Board and Tuition.....................................28,	179
Botany, Courses in...................................... 84
Buildings, Description of............................... 12
Calendar, University..................................... 3
Chemistry, Courses in................................... 78
Scheme of Courses.....................................m
Fees................................................107
Civil, Engineering, Courses in (See Mathematics, Pure and
Applied)
Admission to........................................118
Scheme of Courses................................... 1 ait
±l6	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
College, Ths
Admission to.......*...............................   9$
Commencement Honors..................................199
Commercial Course...................................155
DEGREES:
Bach, of Arts.......................................IO2>
Bach, of Taws.......................................146
Bach, of Tetters....................................103
Bach, of Philosophy.................................104
Master of Tetters in Journalism.....................105
Bach, of Science....................................109
Bach, of Science in Biology.........................113
Bach, of Science in Architecture...................
Civil Engineering...................................122
Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering.......131
Mechanical Engineer.................................125
Pharmaceutical Chemist..........................    116
Graduate in Pharmacy................................116
Directory................................................ 2
Discipline.............................................. 24
Drawing :
Artistic Drawing, Courses in........................ 73
Mechanical Drawing, Courses in...................... 75
Economics, Courses in................................... 46
Electrical Engineering, Courses iu...................... 66
Admission to........................................129
Scheme of Courses.................................  131
Taboratory Fees.....................................118
Electricity, Short Courses in Applied:
Admission to.......................................  132
Scheme of Courses...................................133
Taboratory Fees...................................  118
Elocution, Courses in................................... 43
English, Courses in..................................... 41
Entrance Requirements, (See Admission.)
Ethics, Courses in...................................... 32
Evidences of Christianity............................... 97
Expenses..............................................   28
Executive Officers.....................................   5
Fees.................................................... 28
French, Courses in...................................... 48
Old French...................................        $q
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	217
General Science
Admission to......................................  106
Scheme of Courses...................................109
Geology, Courses in....^................................ 90
German, Courses in...................................... 51
Graduation Fees......................................... 29
Greek, Courses in....................................... 35
Historical Sketch of the University..................... 12
History and Economics, Courses in.......................   45
Admission to........................................ 98
Scheme of Courses...................................104
Italian................................................. 50
Journalism, Courses in..................................105
Admission to........................................105
Scheme of Courses.................................  105
Laboratory Fees.............................107,	112, 115, 118
Latin, Courses in....................................... 39
Law....................*................................139
Lodging, Board and...................................    28
Logic, Course in........................................ 31
Mathematics, Pure, Courses in........................... 51
Mathematics, Applied, Courses in........................ 54
Mechanical Engineering, Courses in...................... 61
Admission to........................................117
Scheme of Courses...................................125
Laboratory Fees.....................................  118
Mechanical Engineering, Short Course.in:
Scheme of Course.....................................128
Medals and Honors...................................     27
Metaphysics, Course in................................   31
Microscopy, Courses in.................................. 87
Minim Department........................................176
Fees................................................180
Museum.................................................. 18
Music, Course in........................................ 93
Fees................................................ 29
Painting:
Fee................................................. 29
Pharmacy, Courses in..................................   91
Admission to........................................114
Scheme of Courses...................................  116
Fees ........  •............................  ......	,113
218	university or notre dame.
Philosophy, Course in................................•......... 31
Physics, Courses in............................................ 83
Physiology, Courses in......................................... 89
Political Science, Course in..................................  46
Portuguese, Course in........................................   50
Preparatory School.............................................159
Professors and Instructors, Roster of........................7,	138
Provencal, Courses in....................................... 50
Psychology, Courses in...................................... 31
Romance language, Courses in................................ 48
Science, Courses in General, (See General Science).
Shop work.................................................... 65
Spanish, Courses in.......................................... 49
Students, Summary of.........................................181
Thesis...............  ,...............108,	112, 115, 121, 124, 130
Title, Legal, of the University.............................. 11
: Trustees, Board of.......................................... 4
Tuition, (See Expenses).............:........................ 28
^Zoology, Courses in......................................... 85
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Is a 28-page paper devoted to the interests of the students
and published by them every week during term time. The
journal is in the hands of a student board of editors and
students do all the writing for it. Work done for The
Scholastic is regarded as supplementary to the theoretical
work of the English courses; hence the character of the
articles,—essays on literary subjects, biographical sketches,
’ short stories, exercises in verse, book - reviews, etc. As
contributors are expected to prepare their own copy for
the press and to do their own proof-reading, they gain no
small amount of practical experience.
Although The Scholastic is published chiefly for the sake
of the students attending the University, their parents and
all former students will see things of interest in its col limns.
Reports of the popular lecture course and of events hap-
pening at Notre Dame and other colleges, personal notices,
athletic notes, reviews of the work done in the debating
and other classes, find place in the paper and keep parents
and others informed about matters that concern their
children and friends.	.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50 per
annum.
Address all communications to
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana*
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS.
(One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.)
Beautifully and healthfully located on an eminence overlooking
the banks of the St. Joseph River. Enjoys a national patronage.
All the branches of a thorough English, Classical, Scientific and Com-
mercial Course with Modern Languages taught. On completion of
the College Course students are entitled to the Degree of A. B., Litt.
B., orB. S.
THE PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT. Here pupils are trained
in the regular, Special and College Preparatory Courses.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT provides for the tender care, and
special instruction of children under the age of twelve years.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC is conducted on the plan of
the best Classical Conservatories
THE ART DEPARTMENT is modeled after the leading Art
Schools of Burope.
GYMNASIUM with resident director, a graduate of Dr. Sargent’s
Normal School of Physical Training, Cambridge, Mass. Over two
hundred acres devoted to walks, and outdoor ’sports.
The AIM of moral, intellectual and physical training is to prepare
young women for lives of usefulness. The constant growth of the
Academy has necessitated the erection of additional fine buildings
with latest Hygienic equipments. Moderate Cost. New school year
begins September 12th. For Catalogue and special information
apply to
THE DIRECTRESS,
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, NOTRE DAME, IND.
St. Mary’s Academy.
r
It is desired that every Graduate receive a copy
of the Bulletin. The Faculty will therefore, con-
sider it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus
changes his address.
On application to the President bulletins will be
sent to all who are interested in the work of the
University.