Series L
Number III.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
ARCHITECTURAL NUMBER
1905 - 1906
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
UNIVERSITY PRESS
JANUARY, 1906
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the faculty, except that the name of the
Hade in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffi.ce, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, and
the Michigan Central railways run directly into South
Bend.
CALENDAR FOR 1905-1906.
SEPTEMBER 12. 13-14. 15. 17.	Examination of Conditioned Students. Entrance Examination. School begins. Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls.
OCTOBER	13. 27-28. 29. NOVEMBER 1. '	30. DECEMBER 5. 8. 18-19. 19. JANUARY	5. FEBRUARY	2. 22. 23-24. MARCH	17. 19. APRIL	15. 16. 24-25. MAY	1.	Founder’s Day. Bi-Monthly Examinations. Annual Retreat begins in the evening. Feast of All Saints. Thanksgiving Day. Contest in Oratory. Feast of the Immaculate Conception. Winter Examinations. Christmas Vacation begins. School begins.	, State Oratorical Contest. Washington’s Birthday. Bi-Monthly Examinations. St. Patrick’s Day. St. Joseph’s Day. Easter. No Easter Vacation. Easter Monday. Bi-Monthly Examinations. Latest Date for handing in Prize and Grad uation Essays in all Collegiate Courses.
16. 30. JUNE	4-9. 10. 11-13. 13.	Contest in Elocution. Decoration Day. Examination of Graduates. Baccalaureate Sermon. ’ General Examinations. Commencement. Preliminary Exercises 7:30 P. M.
14.	Graduation Exercises, 8:00 a. m.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Vbry Rkv. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
*
R®v. DANIEL, E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
R®v. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C
Rbv. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.
Rhv. JAMES J. FRENCH, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
Rev. WILLIAM a. MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OR STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Rev. WILLIAM MARR, C. S. C.,
PREFECT of religion.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
secretary.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
REV. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
Rev. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. timothy murphy, c. s. c.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.	Mr. W. O’BRIEN, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL.
REV. THOS. H. CORBETT, C. S. C. Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
Mr. J. McMANUS, C. S. C.	Mr. S. GAVIN, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.	Bro. AIDAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. JOSEPH, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL.
Bro JUST, C. S. C.
Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.	Bro. GEORGE, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL.
Rev. FRANCIS MOLLOY, C. S. C. Bro. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. FLORENT, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.	Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.
Bro. COLEMAN, C. S. C.	Bro. ERNEST, C. S. C.
PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS IN
THE COLLEGE.
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Senior English.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY,. C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
REV. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. STANISLAUS EITTE, C. S. C.,
Latin.
REV. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Geology.
REV. MICHAEL M. OSWALD, C. S. C„
Greek.
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.
English and History.
REV. JAMES TRAHEY, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Botany.
IO
BULLETIN OF THE
Rev. FRANCIS MOLLOY, C. S. C.,
Spanish.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
Director of the Department of Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Instrumental Music.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL D.,
Law.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S.,
Drawing.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Physics and Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
ROBERT L. GREEN, G. Ph.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B., '
Law.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
11
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. M.,
French.
BENJAMIN R. ENRIQUEZ, C. E.,
Mathematics.
FRANK O’HARA, Ph. D.,
History and Political Economy.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B.,
Architecture.
CLARENCE J. KENNEDY, B. S.
Anatomy and Physiology.
EDWARD M. SCHWAB, DE. B.,
Law.
FREDERIC KARR,
Elocution and Oratory.
J. LUDWIG FRANK,
Director of the Band.
MILTON B. GRIFFITH,
Vocal Culture.
WILLIAM B. KELLY,
Shopwork.
HENRY F. MAY,
Director of Gymnasium.
12
BULLETIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL.
REV. WILLIAM MARR, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
REV. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.,
Latin.
REV. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
REV. MICHAEL OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
History.
REV. JAMES TRAHEY, C. S. C.,
Latin.
REV. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping and Commercial Law.
WILLIAM L. BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mathematics.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics and Astronomy.
SHERMAN STEELE, LiTT. B., LL. B.,
English and Civics.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
13
CHAREES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
AEPHAEUS B. REYNOEDS, A. B.,
Eatin and English.
WIEEIAM J. MAHONEY, A. B., EE. B.,
Mathematics.
JOHN QUINE AN, A. B.,
English.
MICHAEE J. SHEA, A. M.,
Eatin and Greek.
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. M.,
Drench and English.
JOHN B. RENO, A. M., EE. B„
History and English.
TERENCE B. COSGROVE, A. B.,
Mathematics.
JOHN J. MARONEY,
English.
GAEEITZEN A. PARABAUGH, A. B.,
History and English.
CEARENCE J. KENNEDY, B. S.,
Ph} siology, Zoology and Botany.
HENRY M. KEMPER, EiW. B.,
'	Eatin and English.
ARTHUR S. PUNK,
Chemistry.
MAURUS J. UHRICH,
Physics.
JOHN WORDEN,
Drawing.
14
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is :
“ Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State oj
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse,
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the 1 University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant or cause to be conferred and granted,
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other uni-
sities in the United States.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	15
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE MAIN BUILDING.
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class-rooms and the refectories are
in this building. The Library and the Bishops5 Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
others in the University, is lighted by electricity and
gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of the first
floor are decorated with mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 feet in height from the floor
to the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL.	’
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre. The
Theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It
will seat 1,200 persons.
16	BULLETIN OF THE
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south, of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens.
THE CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first and second
floors of Science Hall.
On the second floor, and adjoining the general
museum, is a large and well lighted room reserved for a
library and chemical museum. Here are a library of
chemical journals and books, and a steadily increasing
collection of minerals, chemicals, and chemico-technical
products of all kinds, designed to serve as illustrations
of substances and processes, discussed in the various
lecture courses. Adjoining this room are successively,
an apparatus room, filled with the most modern apparatus
for lecture and experimental work; a chemical store-
room, where laboratory supplies may be procured by the
students; a lecture room, and a laboratory for qualita-
tive and quantitative analysis. The laboratory is fur-
nished with hoods, of good draught; the desks are
provided with water, gas, and the necessary reagents,
and fully equipped with apparatus for work in gas
analysis, organic analysis, and with apparatus for 1 ( Boil-
ing Point and Breezing Point Determinations.” The
Balance Room, adjoining, contains assay and analytical
balances sensitive to one ten-thousandth of a gramme.
«	The lecture room is provided, among other things, with
apparatus for stereopticon illustration, with electric bat-
teries, and with a complete set of charts illustrative of
the process employed in modern chemical industries.
The assay and furnace-room, on the first floor, is
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
17
equipped with, a set of gas furnaces of the most modern
type, for the operations of roasting, fusing, scorifying
and cupelling employed in the dry assay of ores.
The Department of
PHYSICS AND EEECTRICAE ENGINEERING
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture
room, with a seating capacity of sixty-five students,
adjoining the rooms in which the apparatus is stored in
dust-proof cases. Several smaller rooms in the basement
contain heavy piers of masonry, for work with sensitive
galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Laboratories :
IN MECHANICS, ETC.:
Earge physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard metre,
Geneva cathetometer, capable
of measuring to one twenty-
five thousandth of an inch,
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit recording chrono-
graph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Rotary air pumps and receivers,
A large clock with electrical
contact pieces,
Self-winding clocks,
Several mercury barometers,
Two aneroid barometers.
IN ACOUSTICS :
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
Set of electrically - operated
tuning forks by Koenig,
A Scott-Koenig Phon autograph,
Edison phonograph of earliest
type,
Sets of vibrating rods, tubes
and bells,
Earge double siren,	'
Koenig’s movable tuning forks,
to draw compound curves on
smoked glass,
Three sets of organ pipes,
Four sets of fine tuning forks,
Apparatus for manometric
observation of sound pheno-
mena,
A large tuning fork producing
the lowest audible sound,
BUTBBTIN OF THE
18
A set of very small tuning forks
producing the highest audible
sounds,
A set of resonators mounted to
gether with capsules for sen-
sitive flames, arranged for the
analysis of complex sounds,
Apparatus for producing longi-
tudinal vibrations in rods,
An electrical metronome,
Mounted tuning forks carry-
ing small mirrors arranged
to perform Bissajou’s experi-
ment, producing complex
curves.
IN BIGHT :
Complete set of apparatus,
made by Soleil, Paris, for the
measurement of the wave
length of light by various
interference methods,
Sets of polarization apparatus,
Sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors,
Two heliostats,
Four spectroscopes,
A polarizing saccharimeter,
Three projecting lanterns for
gas or electric light, and
3,000 slides,
Set of large Nicol’s prisms
mounted,
Barge compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum,
Two Rowland gratings, 14,000
lines to the inch,
Set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland,
Several cameras with lenses
and attachments,
A well equipped dark-room for
photographic work,
Photometric room and equip-
ment.
in :
Melloni’s apparatus for measur-
ing radiation, absorption and
reflection of heat, complete
with a set of prepared sub-
stances,
Standard thermometers,
Air thermometers,
IN bbkctricity
An absolute electrometer,
Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static pheno-
mena,
Four induction coils,
Six bridges of different types,
Steam engine indicator,
Calorimeters,
Apparatus for determing the
coefficient of linear expan-
sion, using the optical lever
method.
AND MAGNETISM :
Historical set of motors show-
ing evolution of the modern
machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type,
Ten galvanometers of various
types,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
Ammeters and voltmeters,
One 2,000 lb. electro magnet,
Standard resistance coils,
Several sets of storage cells,
Complete X-ray outfit,
Sets of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy.
In addition to the electrical apparatus in the Depart-
ment of Physics, the equipment for practical work in
Electrical Engineering consists of engines, dynamos,
instruments, etc., of commercial size, as follows :
A three phase A. C. induction
motor, arranged to operate on
single phase circuits, with a
condenser compensator,
A high frequency 1000 V., 33 K.
W., composite wound, Wood
alternator of the latest type,
with excitater and a full set of
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of differ-
ent capacity,
A high tension transformer for
testing insolation,
An Edison bipolar 15 K. W.
125 V., generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and
fifteen lamps,
A Wood arc machine, capacity
25 lights,
An Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125
V., dynamo, with special
winding,
A Van Depoele compound
wound dynamo,
A special A. C. and D. C. 5 H. P.
dynamo or rotary converter,
A series _wound dynamo with
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors,
A forty horse power high speed
automatic engine,
A power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and
hand tools for metals,
D’Arsonval and common gal-
vanometers,
Ballistic galvanometer, stand-
ard condenser, etc., for
capacity work,
Resistance boxes, standard
megohms, etc.,
High resistance Thompson gal-
vanometer,
Standard cells,
Voltameter arranged for the
comparison of incandescent
lamps,
A plug switchboard controlling
all circuits,
A calibrating lamp rack,
A small engine belted to shaft-
ing to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and
polishing work to be plated;
solution, tank, etc.,—in all,
a complete outfit for electro-
type work,
A hot wire ammeter,
Twelve ammeters and volt-
meters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current meas-
urements,
A set of wood working tools,
20
BULLETIN OE THE
A set of inclined. coil
alternating current portable
instruments; voltmeter,
ammeter and wattmeter,
A set of tools for metal work-
ing.
Telegraphing relays, sounders,
switchboards, etc,,
Telephone apparatus, including
subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop
manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops,
jacks, switches, lightning’
arresters, etc.,
Automatic telephone switch-
board containing first and.
second selector and. con-
nector switches, interrupter
heat coils, etc., and three
subscribers sets. With this
apparatus all the operations
involved in the operation of a
10000 system may be per-
formed.
A complete central energy
switchboad, several lines and
subscribers sets and. a selective
signaling four party line out-
fit,
A collection of historical sets,
including Reis’ transmitter
and receiver,
Standard portable bridge,
Common portable bridge,
Testing battery,
Kohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery resistance, etc.,
A lot of arc lamps, series and
constant potential, open and
enclosed arcs of various types,
A dynqmometer type wattme-
ter,
Recording wattmeters of vari-
ous types,
A collection of motor starting
rheostats,
A set of parts of incandescent
lamps showing the various
stages in their manufacture,
A large collection of porcelain
insulators, etc., used in elec-
trical work, including a lot
of insulators for high tension
transmission lines,
A lot of armature core disks,
transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders,
pole pieces, samples of insu-
lation, commutator segments,
etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading
manufacturers of electrical
mrchinery,
A case of marked samples of
wire insulators, lamps, and
other construction materials,
Library of practical technical
books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and
trade publications.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	21
EQUIPMENT IN THE ' DEPARTMENTS OF BIOLOGY,
’	GEOLOGY, AND MINERALOGY.
The Department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-
graduate students. All the class-rooms are furnished
with charts and models necessary in teaching the dif-
ferent courses. The arrangement of widows is such
that the rooms can be easily darkened so that a stere-
op ticon and lantern slides on the subjects of Botany,
Zoology, and Physiology may be used. ’
The laboratories are well equipped with compound
and dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a
library of books pertaining to biological subjects. The
botanical laboratory contains twenty - four compound
microscopes and all the requisite accessories for work in
Vegetable Histology and Cryptogamic Botany. The gen-
eral laboratory of Microscopy, Histology and Embry-
ology is also supplied with compound microscopes and
the equipments indispensable in the courses mentioned
above.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a
laboratory of Photo-Micrography which contains a per-
fect photo-micrographic instrument with a complete set
of accessory apparatus for experimentation, photograph-
ing microscopic objects, making lantern-slides, etc. A
large and fully equipped dark-room adjoins this
laboratory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-
rooms and laboratories for the courses in Geology and
22
BULLETIN OF THE
Mineralogy. The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms
are well equipped for work in blow-pipe analysis and
assaying.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological col-
lection on the second floor at present fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large
collection of representative vertebrate skeletons has re-
cently been added to this part of the Museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists
of two complete Herbaria, one of the United States,
the other of Canada. There is also a second collection
of the woods and fruits of the United States, almost
complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a series
of cases on each side of the building. In one series
is a carefully classified collection of minerals and ores.
The opposite series of cases contains a large geological
collection ; some of the specimens here are of the rarest
fossil remains of animal and plant life.
ENGINEERING HALL.
This building is situated directly south of Science Hall,
and is a large three-story brick building, well lighted and
heated. The two upper floors are given up to Chemistry
and Pharmacy. The general Inorganic, Organic and
Elementary Chemical laboratories are on the third
floor, while the second floor is mostly taken up with
pharmaceutical laboratories, a well equipped drug store,
a lecture room and a general stock room, Each laboratory
is provided with ample hood accomodations, and each
desk is furnished with water, gas, and suction.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
23
The southern portion of the second story of this Hall
is used for the
CIVIE ENGINEERING- DEPARTMENT.
The equipment for this department is sufficient for
all the practice and exercises in the field necessary to
illustrate and teach the practical methods of engineering.
The instrumental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit,
two engineer’s transits, with levels and vertical circles
attached to telescopes, one engineer’s Y-level, and a
plane table with all the attachments, clinometers, chains,
tapes, etc.
«
MECHANICAE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT.
The wood shop, machine shop and, blacksmith shop
are on the first floor. The wood shop is supplied with
modern work-benches fully equipped with the smaller
tools necessary for carpentry, twelve lathes for turning,
a jig saw, a revolving planer and a circular saw, the
whole forming an adequate equipment for a thorough
mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The machine shop contains two horizontal slide valve
steam engines which are used for experimental purposes.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric station of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by a line
of shafting running the entire length of the building.
The latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed having a
capacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two
drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a
Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit,
thus making the machine shop a model of its kind. The
24
BULLETIN OF THE
blacksmith, shop has the usual complement for teach-
ing, forging, annealing, welding and tool making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregat-
ing 1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers is
installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows :— a
Worthington hot water meter for measuring the amount
of feed water, a feed water thermometer, for getting
temperature of generated steam, a throttling calorimeter
for ascertaining the quality of steam and an automatic
recording pressure gauge giving a continuous record of
the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding the
temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means of a
pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining samples
of flue gas for analysis. These, with a Carpenter coal
calorimeter for determining the heating value of the fuel,
comprise a full and complete equipment for giving the
student an intimate knowledge of the practical part of
boiler management and testing. A Webster feed water
heater and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system two large
Worthington fire pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with a capacity of
1500 gals, per minute, with numerous separators, steam
traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete the
apparatus in the main steam plant. A McBwen high
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
speed automatic engine, an Armington and Simms engine
of similar type and several low speed horizontal engines
with planimeters, indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules
and other necessary instruments, are used in studying
the operation of the steam engine, distribution and econ-
omy of steam, regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.
SORIN HALL.
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
112 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of the
Collegiate Courses are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room, and a law
library. The building is lighted with electricity and
heated with steam. In the basement are recreation
rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL.
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation
rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted with
electricity and gas and heated with steam. For room-
rent and care of the room a fee is charged.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This building is located near the Engineering Hall and
is designed for an equatorial telescope and for a transit
or meridian circle. The equatorial telescope now in the
building is intended for students of Astronomy, and is in
use whenever favorable weather permits.
THE INFIRMARY.
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for
26
BULLETIN OK THE
the use of students during illness. The sick are nursed
by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University physi-
cian visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM.
The gymnasium which was burnt down in November,
1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground : it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
new apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
and showerbaths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than $3,000 to the fund for
re-building.	.
The Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic
games. There is a permanent grand stand near the base-
ball diamond and the cinder track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten acres
of ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, C. B-, of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS.
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University ; of these the principle are : Saint
Joseph’s Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Fdward’s Hall.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
DISCIPLINE,
Official bi-monthly reports of each student’s class
standing will be sent to parents and guardians.
The Faculty maintains that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of a
youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible
to bring about this development where students are
granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty government
while outside the class-room. A young man must learn
obedience to the law by the actual practice of obedience,
not by mere appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtained except where
discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown to be
salutary by experience, are enforced at the University:
1.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students dur-
ing the term time', except in cases of urgent necessity. 'There
is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in exam-
inations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, 'the
use of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
28
BULLETIN OF THE
absence from the college limits are among the causes for
expulsion. In case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees will be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall; and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to those
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls that have
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or
Corby Halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
service in the College Church at stated times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is strictly pro-
hibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of
study will not be permitted, but students are expected to
take part in outdoor sports and other games.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students is strictly
forbidden to countenance anything that savors of profes-
sionalism.
14.	All athletics will be governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
President of the University and members of the Faculty
will compose this Board, and reserve the right of a final
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	29
decision on all questions concerning athletics. The
Faculty Board will determine the amateur standing of
the members of the athletic teams and apportion the
finances. By this means indiscreet and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Among those who have addressed the
University in the past few years may be noted four
Apostolic Delegates : Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli,
and Monsignors Falconio and Agius ; Archbishops Ire-
land, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and
Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, O’Gorman and
Shanley. There were also such noted European church-
men as the Abbe Felix Klein and the foremost of living
Bnglish historians, Dom Gasquet,, besides men of letters
like Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Bgan, Henry
Van Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats,'
James Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie and
Henry James, and such men of affairs as Senator Taft,
ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge, Secretary of Navy
Charles Jerome Bonaparte, William P. Breen and Bourke
Cockran. Concerts are given frequently by organizations
from without.
30
bulletin of the
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).......$ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, (Latin, Greek and Modern Languages
included) Lodging, Washing, and Mending of Linens,
per Session of nearly Ten Months.................. 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)................$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition........................ 250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account..................... 10.00
Special Lecture and Concert Course.......................... 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra Expense the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed below), and Spending Money.
On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition....................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Sessions, September and January. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scho-
lastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the
student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice;
and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself
from the University at any time or for any cause without proper
permission. However, an exception is made if it seems to be
expedient for him to go to his home because of severe or pro-
tracted illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any student
whose account with the University has not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
For whole Session of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS —
Sorin Hall: Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores, Free;
Freshmen....................................$50.00
Corby Hall..................................... 80.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	31
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the
following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year.
The charges will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Ees-	Use of each Instrument. .$ 5.00
sons on Piano and use	Vocal Culture........ 40.00
of Instrument.......$60.00 Elocution — Special
Use of Piano for Ad-	Course............. 10.00
vanced Students.....30.00 Use of Library.......... 5.00
Telegraphy............ 25.00	“Scholastic”—College
Typewriting—Full Course	Paper............... 1.50
(20 Lessons) ........ 5.00	Artistic Drawing..... 25.00
Phonography........... 25.00 Applied Electricity..... 40.00
Practical Mechanics... 30.00 Special Lecture and Con-
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,	cert Course......... 3.00
Flute, Cornet, Clarinet	Gymnastics—Full Course
or Mandolin.......... 3000	•	(20 Lessons)........ 5.00
Laboratory Fees Listed under Regular Courses. ■
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a Degree, $10.00; Commercial
Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed during
the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend theit
Summer Vacation under the care of the College Authorities can
be accomodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the Univer-
sity, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesiastical
state can be received at special rates. Fuller information can be
obtained by addressing the President.
32
BULLETIN OF THE
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that a
deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering science
is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Architect is the heaven-gifted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of form,
color, texture, and ornament, can build them structurally
and economically perfect. It is seldom that any mind
combines all of these attributes. It is more seldom that
to-day’s practice requires them in any one man. To-day,
one man cc designs ’ ’; another ‘c frames.’ ’
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of Architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Course in Architecture from
the School of Engineering and to create the new College
of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offer three under-
graduate courses and two graduate courses to men able
to furnish the entrance requirements. The Beaicx-Avts
Course requires four years for completion and is offered
to students wishing to specialize in design. The degree
of Bachelor of Arts in Architecture is given at completion.
The Engineering Course is of the same length and is
offered to men wishing to specialize in construction.
The degree is Bachelor of Science in Architectural
Engineering. Graduate years are offered in both
courses, and, upon completion, Master’s- degrees are
conferred. A Short Course covering two years is offered
to students finding it impossible or inexpedient to devote
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
33
to school work the time required for completing the
courses leading to degrees. Upon completion of the
Short Course a Certificate of Proficiency is given.
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the draughting-room continuously during the morning
hours from 8 to 12, and for three periods of class-room
work in the afternoon. In the Senior Years and in the
Short Course the class-room requirements are less and
the time to be spent in the draughting-room correspond-
ingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Course or either
of the complete courses must be at least eighteen years
of age and must have completed the work preparatory to
the Courses either in the Preparatory Department of the
University or in another accredited school. Or, entrance
may be by examination, at the University on the first
two days of the Pall Term or in Chicago at the Offices
of the University on days announced in the press of
that city.
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the routine
of the courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in Archi-
tecture (or in Architectural Engineering) from Notre
Dame or another School of Architecture of equal stand-
ing. The University will confer the Master’s degree on
her own graduate students not in residence at the end of
one year if that time is spent in an atelier of the first
order or in travel abroad following an approved pro-
gramme of study and investigation; or at the end of not
less than two years if that time is spent iffipractice and
the University’s requirements are complied with.
34	BULLETIN OF THE
EQUIPMENT.
The Equipment of the College of Architecture, from
a small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of signed drawings—
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts; others from archi-
tects of national reputation ; photographs, engravings,
plaster models, reference books and manufacturers’
catalogues and samples. The collection, however, needs
to be increased faster than the resources of the University .
will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre Dame can
not give money, or its eqivalent, for a better purpose.
The Endowment of a Travelling Eellowship, preferably
for the study of European Ecclesiastical Architecture,
will be a benefaction of the utmost practical value. One
thousand dollars will provide for one man for one year.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fees for matriculation,
tuition, and board and lodging (if in residence), etc.,
as given in the General Bulletin, students in the Courses
in Architecture are required to pay the scheduled
laboratory fees as follows:
Chemistry..............$10.00
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS.
Candidates for the Freshman Year in either complete
course or for the First Year of the Short Course must be
prepared to pass an examination in the branches named
below, unless they have done their preparatory work at
Notre Dame or at an accredited High School.
English — Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory course in English (See pages 61 and 62);
the remainder for writing an essay.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
35
Algebra—Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to loga-
rithms, as given in Wentworth’s “ College Algebra,” or
an equivalent in the larger treatises by other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Cliauvenet, New-
comb, or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
History — A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Mediaeval and Modern
History, as set out in the text used in the high schools
and academies of the country.
Geography — Physical, as much as is contained in
the ordinary text-books.
Physiology — Martin’s	“Human Body,” or an
equivalent.
Botany—Elementary.
Zoology — Elementary.
Chemistry — Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in high schools of good standing.
Physics — Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar to
Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s Laboratory work is
recommended, but is not required.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Civics—Elementary.
German — A two years course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English,
and easy English sentences into German.
French — An equivalent course in French may be
offered for the German. In this case students will be
required to begin German in their Freshman Year.
36	BULLETIN OF THE
Drawing — A knowledge of the use of drawing instru-
ments, of elementary projection drawing and freehand.
The Programme of Studies Preparatory to the Courses in
Architecture is outlined and described in this Bulletin immediately
following the description of the College work.
THE BEAUX - ARTS COURSE.
DEGREES : Bachelor of Arts in Architecture,
Master of Arts in Architecture.	'
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
course to so design it that the student pursuing it will
have upon completion a liberal general education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural Design
and Composition. It may be undertaken by students
whose ‘ artistic intuition and temperament fit them
especially for the aesthetic side of a noble profession.
The course is built up around the work in the
draughting-room and atelier, where half of the student’s
time is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the
Freshman Year with the intelligent study of the Orders
and simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by means
of minor and major problems involving the planning of
all classes of buildings from the simplest to the most
monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by exer-
cises in the various methods and media of rendering and
by a thorough course in freehand and modelling. All
instruction in planning and composing is based on correct
principles of design.
The materials and methods of all trades and profes-
sions engaged in building operations are systematically
studied in the Construction classes throughout the four
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
37
years of the course. The writing of specifications for
each branch of labor is studied synchronously. Practical
work in the various trades is given that the student may
know good work and thus be able to superintend con-
struction intelligently. These practical lessons are sup-
plemented by weekly inspection trips to the important
building operations and industries in the neighborhood
of the University.
The standard Hand-books and Mill-books are used as
supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and numerous
practical problems solved.
Working drawings and details of construction are
made under office conditions.	'
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the Construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that graver
problems requiring a deep knowledge of the higher
mathematics may well be left to the Architectural
Engineer.
In the last year of the course a series of lectures are
given on Estimates, Contracts, Law, Business Relations,
and Professional Ethics and Practice. ’ Architects of
high professional standing will give a number of the
Lectures in this course.
The History of Architecture and of the allied Arts is
studied in a course covering three years. The method is
a combination of Lectures, Recitations and Research.
A course in Literature, Economics and Philosophy
covering four years completes the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism and
research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.
38
BULLETIN OF THE
THE ENGINEERING COURSE.
: Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering,
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of Engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limits of one man’s abilities. To be
thorough, the Engineer must specialize. One of his
specializations is in Architecture. His services are
needed to frame important buildings, to design their
foundations and to protect adjoining property while they
are in erection. The modern idea of education is to
progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs. The
College offers the Course in Architectural Engineering
because there is need of the services of the men who can
complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
should have a bent for Mathematics and for painstaking
exact draughting.
The programme of studies differs from that of the
Beaux - Arts course chiefly in that a course in pure and
applied Mathematics is substituted for the course in
English, Economics and Philosophy; a year in History
of Construction for the one in History of Art; and in
that a relatively greater amount of time, increasing each
year, is spent in Construction Design.
The Graduate Year is spent entirely in the solving of
problems of the first order in Architectural Engineering.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	39
THE SHORT COURSE.
Certificate of Proficiency.
The programme of studies for the Short Course com-
prises most of the work of the complete courses that is
essentially architectural. A glance at the Course Out-
line will show that there is relatively less Class-room
work and correspondingly more in Design each year than
in either of the complete courses.
SUMMER WORK.
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,
projects, measured drawings or work in an Architect’s
office will be required of all students of Architecture.
' EXPLANATION OF “ HOURS
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one (average) hour of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the draughting-
room.
It is the intention to have the student work steadily
for four hours in the draughting-room during the morn-
ing session and to attend three recitation periods during
the afternoon session.
40
BULLETIN 0E THE
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE*
BEAUX-ARTS COURSE*
( Deg-kee : Bachelor of Arts in Architecture.)
FRESHMAN YEAR*
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR | DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course |			Page	Course
English - -	5	43	I-I.	English - -	5	43	I-I.
French* - -	5	46	4-1.	French - -	5	46	4-1.
Des. Geom. - .	3	49	7-ia.	Shades Sh’d’ws 1 Perspective j	3	49	7-ib.
Construction	2	52	9-1.	Construction	2	52	9-1.
Freehand- -	2	56	I2-I.	Freehand - -	2	56	12-1.
EL of Arch. -	8	58	14-1	El. of Arch. -	8	58	14-1.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English - -	5	43	1-11.	English - -	5	43	i-ii.
French - -	3	46	4-11.	French - -	3	46	4-11.
Construction	2	52	9-11.	Construction	2	52	9-11.
El’m’t’y Meeh.	3	50	7-vn.	El’m’t’y Meeh.	*7 0	50	7-vn.
Hist, of Arch.	2	55	11-1.	Hist, of Arch.	2	55	ii-ii.
Freehand	2	56	12-11.	Freehand 1 Modelling J	2	56	12-11.
Pen-and-ink	1	57	13	Water Color	I	57	13
Design - -	7	58	14-11.	Design - -	7	58	14-11.
JUNIOR YEAR*
Economics -	4	43	2-ia.	Graph. Statics	5	5i	7-xi.
Adv. Cons. -	4	52	9-111.	Adv. Cons. -	4	52	9-111.
Sanitation -	3	53	9-v.	Heat. & Vent.	2	53	9-vi.
Hist, of Arch.	2	55	11-111.	Hist. Orn’m’t.	2	55	II-IV.
Theory Design	T	59	14-v	Theory Design Freehand 1	1	59	14-v.
Freehand	2	56	12-111.	I Modelling J	2	56	12-in.
Design - -	8	58	14-111	| Design	8	58	14-111.
SENIOR YEAR*
Ethics - - -	5	44	3-IH-	Sociology- -	5	45	3-iv.
Electricity -	2	54	9-vn.	Business E’l’t’n } Pro fess’l Ethics J	2	54	10
History of Art	2	55	II-V.	History of Art	2	55	IT-V.
Freehand- - Design - -	3	56	12—IV.	Freehand 1 Modelling j	3	56	12—IV.
	12	58	I4-IV.	Design, Thesis	X2	58	I4-IV.
* If French is offered at entrance, substitute German, 5—1., n , page 47.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	41
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE.
ENGINEERING COURSE.
(Degree: Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering )
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs' a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Cou*se			Page	Course
Algebra - -	5	47	6-1.	Anal. Geom.	5	47	6-11.
French. * - -	5	46	4-1.	French - -	5	46	4-1.
Des. Geom. -	3	49	7-ia.	Shades Sh’d’ws 1 Perspective J	3	49	7-ib.
Construction	2	52	9-1.	Construction	2	52	9-1.
Freehand - -	2	56	12-1.	Freehand- -	2	56	12-1.
EL of Arch. -	8	58	14-1.	El. of Arch. -	8	58	14-1.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus - -	5	48	6-111	Calculus - -	5	48	6-iv.
French - -	3	46	4-11	French - -	3	46	4-11.
Construction	2	52	9-11.	Construction	2	52	9-11.
Chemistry	3	5i	8-11.	Chemistry -	3	5i	8-11.
Hist, of Arch.	2	55	ii-i	Hist, of Arch.	2	55	11-11.
Freehand - -	2	56	12-11.	Freehand 1 Modelling J	•2	56	12-11.
Pen-and-ink	1	57	13	Water Color	1	57	13
Design - -	7	58	14-H.	Design - -	_7~	58	14-11.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anal. Meeh. -	3	50	7-VIII.	Meeh’s of Mat.	3	50	7-IX.
Adv. Cons. -	4	52	9-111.	Graph. Statics	5	5i	7-xi.
Sanitation	3	53	9-v.	Adv. Cons. -	4	52	9-111.
Hist, of Arch.	2	55	ii-iii.	Heat. & Vent.	2	53	9-vi.
Theory Design	1	59	14-v.	Theory Design	1	59	14—V.
Freehand	2	56	12-111.	Freehand 1 Modelling J	2	56	12-111.
Design - -	8	58	14-111.	Design - -	8	58	14-111.
SENIOR YEAR.
Arch. Eng'ng	5	53	9-1V.	rch. Eng’ng	5	53	9-iv.
Electricity -	2	54	9-vn.	BusinessRTt'n 1 Profess’lEthics J	2	54	IO
History of				Hist, of Cons.	2	55	11 -VI.
Construction Freehand - -	2 3	55 56	II-VI. 12-IV.	Freehand J Modelling j	3	56	12-IV.
Design - -	12	58	14-IV.	Design-Thesis	12	58	14-IV.
* If French is offered at entrance, substitute German 5—1., 11., page 47.
42
BULLETIN OB THE
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE,
SHORT COURSE.
(Certificate of Proficiency.)
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
							
Descriptive				Shades and )			
Geometry -	3	49	7-ia.	Shadows, >■	3	49	7-ib.
Construction	4	52		Perspective J			
History of				Construction	4	52	9-1,11.
Architecture	2	55	11-1.	History of			
Freehand -	4	56	12-1.	Architecture	2	55	II-U.
				Freehand, 1			
				Modelling j	4	56	12-11.
Elements of				El. of Arch., 5			
Architecture	12	58	14-1.	Design	J	14	5°	1ZJ.-1,11.
SECOND YEAR.
Advanced				Adv. Cons. -		4	52	9-111.
Construction	4	52	9-111.	Heating and				
Sanitation -	3	53	9-v.	Ventilation		2	53	9-VI.
Electricity -	2	54	9-vn.	Graph. Statics		5	5i	7-xi.
History of				Business				
Architecture	2	55	11-in.	Relations		2		
Theory of				Professional			54	IO
Design - -	1	59	14-v.	Ethics				
Freehand -	4	56	12-in.	Theory of				
Pen-and-ink	I	57	13	Design - -		1	59	14-v.
Design - - -	8	58	14-11., in.	Freehand 1 Modelling /		2	56	12-iv.
				Water Color		1	57	13
				Design - -		8	58	14-111.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	43
L—COURSES IN ENGLISH.
I.
(a) Prose Forms. Special treatment of Exposition
and Argumentation. Genung’s “ Working Principles of
Rhetoric,” Part II., and Heydrich’s “How to Study
Literature.”
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(A) Literature. Higginson and Boynton’s.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(>) Lyric Poetry.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(«) Prose Forms. Special study of the Novel and
the Short Story.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(3)	Literature. The Development of English
Literature.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(^) The Sonnet.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
2.—COURSES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE.
ECONOMICS.
I.
The EeEments oe Economics, viz.:—Land,
Human Exertions and Capital; Value, Money and
Credit; Rent, Interest, Profit and Wages; and Popula-
tion and Consumption. The text-book used is Walker’s
“ Manual of Political Economy.”
[Four hours a week for five months.]
44
BULLETIN OH THE
3—COURSES IN PHILOSOPHY.
III.
Principles or Ethics.—(Q. z) Man’s last end and
Happiness ; the Purpose of Man in tiiis life. (Q. 2.}
Human Acts; Responsibility ; Merit; Obstacles to
Human Acts. {Q-3-^) Origin of Morality; Hedonism;
Altruism; Sympathy; Essential Differences between
Good and Evil; the Constituents of Morality; the
Eternal Law. {Q. 4.} The Natural Moral Law; its
Existence and Characters; Evolution. (Q. 3.) The
Positive Lawn (Q. 6.) On Conscience; Good Eaith ;
Doubtful Conscience and Reflex Principles. (Q. 7.)
Passions in Practical Life; their Classification; their
Imputability. (Q. 3.) The Moral Virtues; Stoicism;
Epicureanism; Christianity.
(A) Individual Duties — Notions of Right and
Duty. (Q. z.) The Duty of Man to God; Necessity
of External and Public Worship ; Obligation of Prayer ;
the fact of Sacrifice. (0. 2.) The Duty of Man to
Himself; Culture of the Intelligence, the Will,
the Imagination, the Memory; Care of the body;
Suicide essentially Unlawful. (Q. 3.) The Duty of
Man to his Eellowmen; on Truthfulness and Lying,
Homicide and Self-Defence; on Duelling; on Private
Ownership, Socialism, Communism, Single Tax; on the
Right to Honor and Reputation; on Contracts and
Usury.
Social Duties—	t.) The Domestic Society
and Marriage; Monogamy; Polygamy and Divorce;
Relations between Parents and Children. 2.) Edu-
cation ; the Part of the Parents, the Church and the
State. (Q. 3.) On Slavery in Ancient and Modern
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	45
Times; Duties of Masters and Servants. (Q. 4.) On
Capital and Labor.
[Dive hours a week for one term.]
IV.
(a) Moral Sociology — Necessity of a Public
Society; the City. (Q. 1.} Origin of the Civil and
Political Organization; Theories of Hobbes and J. J.
Rousseau; source of authority in Human Society.
(Q. 2.) On the Divine Right of Kings; The Absolute
Sovereignty of the People; the Reasonable System.
(Q. 5.) The different Dorms of Government; the
Primitive Polity; the best Dorm of Government;
Opinions of O. A. Brownson. (Q. 48) On Modern
Democracy ; the Position of the Church ; the Usurpa-
tion and Transfer of the Supreme Power; on the
Government de Dacto. (g. 5.) On Despotism; is it
Lawful to Resist a Tyrant? Theory of St. Thomas and
Machiavelli on Government. (Q. 6.} The Distinction
of the three Social Powers ; Parliamentary and Repre-
sentative Government. (Q- 78) Qualities of a good
Ruler; the Question of the Poor. QQ. 8.} Public
Liberties ; Dreedom of the Press and of Conscience; the
Right of the Sword; on War and Treaties. QQ. 9.}
The International Law. {Q. 10.} Civilization. {Q. 11.}
Church and State.
(/) Government oe the United States * — His-
tory of the Constitution; the Legislative Department of
the U. S.; the Lxecutive Department of the U. S.; the
President and the Cabinet; the Judicial Department of
the U. S.; the Supreme Court; the Rights of the States
* This course is sketched according to the principles laid down
in “The American Republic,” by O. A. Brownson, and “The
American Commonwealth,’’ by Mr. Bryce.
46
BULLETIN OE THE
and the United States; Jury, Suffrage and Elections ;
Ballot Systems ; Parties and Party Machinery; Patriotism
and Religion.
4.—COURSES IN FRENCH.
। .
This Course consists in reading, writing short sen-
tences, explaining the parts of speech, especially the
regular conjugations as well as the more usual irregular
verbs, then translating two at least of the following
works : ‘c French by Reading5 ’ ( Houghton ), “La
Tache du Petit Pierre ’ ’ ( Mairet), “ Un cas de Con-
science ’’ ( Gervais), “La Main malheureuce’’ ( Guer-
ber ), “ Sans Famille ’ ’ ( Malot ), “ Reading from French
History” (Super).
[Five hours a week.]
II.
The intermediate class continues and perfects all the
work of Course I. Dictations and conversations are
added on practical topics, and careful translation made of
two or three of the following works: “ Le Voyage de
M. Perrichon ’ ’ ( Labiche ), “ Roman d’un Jeune Homme
Pauvre ’ ’ (Feuillet), “ Fables choisies ’5 ( La Fontaine),
‘ ‘ Le Medecin Malgre’ Lui ’ ’ ( Moliere ), “ Le Cid ’ ’
( Corneille ), “ Esther 3 3 ( Racine ), c ‘ Pages onbhees de ’3
( Chateaubriand ), “ La Question d’ Argent ’ ’ ( Dumas).
[Three hours a week.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
47
5.—COURSES IN GERMAN.
I.
Grammar — Joynes - Meissner. Marchen and Erzah-
lungen, Guerber. Vol. I. and II.
Themes — Original and imitative work.
[Five hours a week.J
II.
Speciae Course for students in the English and
Scientific Courses.
Grammar — Joynes - Meissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Three hours a week.]
6—COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
I.
Aegera — This course includes a study of the binomial
theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance, var-
iables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
thorough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation, detached coefficients, surd and imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s
theorem ; Horner’s method; roots of complex number
and trignometric solution of cubic equations.
[Bive hours a week for one term.]
II.
Anaeytic Geometry—This course includes a study
of the point and right line ; conic sections, their equations
48
BULLETIN OE THE
and properties ; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; higher plane
curves, equations of the third degree; different systems
of coordinates; transformation of coordinates; spirals ;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces
of revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric
surfaces and supplementary propositions.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Calculus, Differential — This course as also Course
IV., is designed to meet the requirements of Engineering
students. It includes a study of the methods for the
differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions; suc-
cessive differentiation and differential coefficients; treat-
ment of implicit and compound functions; expansion of
functions ; indeterminate forms; partial differential coef-
ficients of the first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature; radius of curvature; envelopes ; singular
points of curves, maxima and minima of functions of one
independent variable, and of several independent vari-
ables ; tracing curves, differentials of arcs, plane areas/
surfaces and volumes of revolution.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus, Integral—Integration of elementary
forms and of rational fractions ; integration by rationali-
zation and by parts; successive integration; multiple
integrals; definite integrals, limits of integration ; double
integration applied to plane areas ; rectification of plane
curves; quadratures of plane areas and' surfaces of revo-
lution ; surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equa-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
49
tion of a curve. This course is supplemented by numerous
exercises and examples.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
7—COURSES IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS.
I.	•
(a)	Descriptive Geometry — In this course are
considered problems on the point, right line, and plane ;
single curved, and warped surfaces ; problems relating
to tangent planes to single curved, double curved, and
warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces by planes;
tangencies, development of surfaces. Numerous practical
problems and exercises requiring the application of the
principles of Descriptive Geometry, are added by the
instructor.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Shades and Shadows, Perspective—In this
course the student is taught to cast conventional shades
and shadows as they are used in architectural rendering,
and to make perspective drawings by the most effective
and rapid methods. Numerous practical problems are
given in shades and shadows. For practice in perspective
drawing students are required to make perspectives of all
their projects and to sketch in perspective in their third
and fourth years. The use of all the different media
is required for rendering — charcoal, chalk, pencil, India
ink in flat and graded washes, and water-color.
The instruction in perspective is practical rather than
theoretical. All of the standard works are in the
Reference Library. Students, in classes of not less than
five, so electing, may study theory exhaustively.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
50
BULLETIN OK THE
VII.
Blementary Mechanics — In this course the student
studies the strength of materials of construction and the
principles of mechanics and their applications to structural
forms. The work is more elementary than that of the
course in Analytic Mechanics and requires no knowledge
of Calculus.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics — The aim of this course is to
prepare students of Bngineering for the study of the
courses of Applied Mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of Statics, Kine-
matics, and Kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
students to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics considered
in this course are : work, energy, conservation of energy ;
power, composition and resolution of forces, centre of
gravity, centre of mass, moment of inertia, acceleration,'
dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Mechanics of Materials—This course is intended
to meet the requirements of Bngineering students
and to prepare them, by a study of the action
and effect of forces on beams and structures, to design
economically and intelligently the parts entering into a
complete structure. The course comprises a study, ac-
cording to the latest and most approved methods, of
tension and its effect on materials, compression, theories
of flexure and rupture from transverse stress, shearing
stress, transverse strength, beams of uniform resistence,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
51
various forms and loaded in any manner, design and
strength of beams and columns, effect of long continued
stresses, and repeated stresses, factor of safety and
working stresses, strength of pipes and cylinders, theory
and practice of riveting, torsion, transmission of power
by shafts, continuous girders, equation of curves of de-
flection, theorem of three moments, moment at any
support, the resilience of materials, apparent stresses and
true stresses, etc.
[Pive hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Graphic Statics —In this course the student is taught
to determine stresses by graphical methods. Centers
of Gravity, Moments of Inertia, Shear and Bending
Moments of Beams under all conditions of loading are
determined by the application of the principles of the
force and equilibrium polygons. Stresses in trusses and
built up girders, in masonry arches and domed structures
are determined graphically. Methods of determing ap-
propriate sections are taught. Numerous practical
problems are given.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
8.—COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.
II.
(<2) General Descriptive Chemistry—Recita-
tions and experimental lectures treating of the funda-
mental principles of chemistry, and designed to meet the
requirements of the students of the Engineering Course.
Text-book, 11 Remsen’s Briefer Course.”
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
52
BUDDETIN OB THE
(#) A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the needs
of Engineering students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
9*—COURSES IN CONSTRUCTION*
I. and II.
Construction — In’these courses the student obtains
a thorough knowledge of the materials and methods of
the Mason’s, Carpenter’s, Metal Worker’s and Painter’s
trades. Each trade is considered separately, and at con-
clusion an exhaustive study of specification writing and
methods of estimating for it is made. The University
constantly furnishes employment to a large force of
trained mechanics who will give personal lessons to the
student in all branches of these trades. Inspection visits
are made weekly, as a supplementary exercise in super-
intendence, to important building operations in the
neighborhood. Detail drawings of constructive methods
are made exactly as in an Architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on the campus one of his pro-
jects and to furnish all levels required by the builder in
order to acquire thoroughness in the use of the Archi-
tect’s Level and Compass.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Advanced Construction—In this course the student
studies the construction and design of steel framing,
fireproofing of all forms, reinforced concrete, footings
and foundations.
Working drawings for one of the student’s projects are
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
53
made. Especial care and accuracy are demanded in the
preparation of the framing plans and details. This work
is traced and blue-printed by Kreshmen students.
[hour hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering—A course in which
are solved graphically and analytically more complicated
problems in structural design and applied mechanics,
with especial study of reinforced concrete.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Sanitation—This study is taught from text-book
and embraces sanitary engineering pertaining to build-
ings, as follows: sewerage, water supply, lighting and
ventilation, plumbing work, subsoil drainage, dry founda-
tion walls and cellars. Also drawings-of plumbing
systems and fixtures.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Heating and Ventilation—This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating,—furnace heating, hot water,
steam, etc.,— are carefully examined and studied. The
radiation of heat from surfaces, the different systems of
piping, condition of air as to moisture, amount of air
required, causes and best means adopted to secure pure
air; the necessity of good ventilation and the' latest
approved methods for securing this all important feature
are some of the topics considered in this study.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
54
BULLETIN OE THE
VII.
Electricity— A course of lectures and recitations,
on the general theory of electricity and magnetism and
its application to practical work, as follows : Setting up
and testing primary and secondary batteries, systems of
call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire and
burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switch-
boards and accessories, arc and incandescent lighting
systems, etc.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
W.—COURSES IN BUSINESS RELATIONS.
This course consists of lectures in which are given
descriptions of a system of book-keeping suited to the
needs of an Architect’s business, a system of building
accounts, filing systems for catalogues and prints, a card-
index system for prints and general information ; of forms
for Agreements with Clients, for Proposals and Ac-
ceptances, for Contracts and Bonds, and for Certificates ;
the laws affecting Clients, Contractors and Architects ;
and the rules of Professional Ethics in Private Practice,
Competitions and Municipal Affairs.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
55
IL—COURSES IN HISTORY.
I, II. and III.
History or Architecture — This course comprises
a study of the early beginnings, growth and development
of Architectural styles. It includes ethnography as
applied to Architectural Art; Ancient Architecture ;
Egyptian Architecture ; Assyrian Architecture; Grecian
Architecture; Btruscan ; Roman and Sassanian Archi-
tecture ; Christian Architecture in Trance, Belgium and
Holland, Germany, Scandinavia, Bngland, Spain and
Portugal, and Italy; Saracenic and Ancient American
Architecture; Byzantine Architecture.
[Two hours a week for three terms.]
IV.
History oe Ornament — A study of the origin .
and evolution of ornament and the application of same,
together with exercises in motive.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
V.
History oe AeeiEb Arts — A brief study of the
field of Art with especial reference to Sculpture, Metal -
Working, Mural Painting, Stained Glass and Mosaic.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
History or Construction—A critical study of the
types of Construction of the ancient, mediaeval and
modern builders, tracing the relation of the type to the
problem and the development of the style from the type.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
&
56
BULLETIN OF THE
12.—COURSES IN FREEHAND AND MODELLING.
I. and II.
(6?) Elementary Freehand — Drawing from casts
of ornaments purely geometrical, such as mouldings,
ovoloes, dentils, etc. Sketching from simple objects.
(&) Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from nature of leaves and flowers.
(d) Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on per-
spective, direction of the principal lines in relation to the
horizon. Elementary notions on the five orders of
architecture.
(d} Drawing from casts of the human figure : hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
(cd) Antique Class — Drawing from the antique
of heads and busts. Still life drawing. Sketches of
landscapes from nature. Selection of a subject. Com-
position in landscape. Applications of perspective.
(5)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occa-
sional studies of the head from the living model. Sketch-
ing from the costumed model. Still life in water colors.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Life Class — Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science Hall.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	57
Modelling— One solid week in the spring terms of
the Sophomore, Junior and Senior years is devoted to
modelling in clay. The objects modelled are archi-
tectural forms, copied from the cast or made from the
student’s drawings of his own work, as his progress and
ability may warrant.
Sketch Class—One hour a week. This class is
open also to the students in the Mechanical Drawing
classes. The students have themselves an organization,
<fThe Crayon Club,” the object of which is to sketch
college scenes and to do illustrative work: these
sketches are brought into class and criticized.
All students of the Courses in Architecture are required to attend
the sessions of the Sketch Class.
13.—COURSES IN RENDERING.
Pen and Ink — Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art ; fol-
lowed by rendering from photographs and of original
drawings.
Water Color — The rendering of architectural draw-
ings, including perspectives : — casting of shadows, color
treatment of buildings, and handling of foreground and
background.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
While the catalogued time for the Courses in Rendering is one
hour a week for two terms, for better results the work will be
given in two eighteen hour periods (thirty-six actual hours) in
each term.
Practice in rendering is continued throughout the entire length
of the Courses.
58
BULLETIN OF THE
14.-COURSES IN DESIGN.
I.
The Elements of Architecture—This course is a
study of the Five Orders of Architecture and is given by
lectures, recitations and drawing. The study embraces
a thorough analysis of each Order, in which the principal
and distinguishing features of each are clearly shown
and comparisons made. Also a study in detail of the
forms and proportions characterizing each is made in the
class room. Problems pertaining to the Orders are given
in the Drawing Room, and detail drawings and colorings
made.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
II.	III. and IV.
Design—The study of problems in architectural
design, embodying the subjects of composition and form.
This course expands from Elementary Design (second
year) to Advanced Design and Thesis Work (fourth
year), and includes the handling of design in monu-
mental structures, and its application to modern build-
ings, such as hospitals, theatres, municipal buildings,
libraries, churches, etc.
The programme for the second year requires the
execution of nine minor, (one day), and nine major
problems ; that for the third year of nine minor and six
major problems ; that for the fourth year of four minor
and three major problems and the thesis.
Students of the Engineering course will be given
Engineering problems exclusively beginning with the
second term of the third year.
[Seven, eight and twelve hours a week,
respectively, for three years.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
59
Thesis — All of the time for design during the second
term of the last year is devoted to the preparation of the
graduating thesis. The subject in each case is selected
by the Professor of Design or of Construction.
V.
Theory oe Design — A thorough study of the
principles of planning and proportion, supplemented by
study of the perfections and faults of the world’s most
famous buildings.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
6o
BULLETIN OF THE
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE.
Programme of Studies Preparatory to the Course in Architecture.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English - -	5	A	English - -	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History - -	3	A	History - -	3	A
Science - -	5	A	Science - -	5	C
Science - -	3	B	Science - -	3	D
SECOND YEAR.
English - -	5	B	English - -	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History - -	3	B	History - -	3	B
Science - -	5	E	Science - -	5	E
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
THIRD YEAR.
English - -	5	C	English - -	5	C
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
History - -	3	C	History - -	3	C
Science - -	5	F	Science - -	5	F
German - -	5	A	German - -	5	A
FOURTH YEAR
English - -	5	D	English - -	5	D
Mathematics	5	G	Mathematics	5	H
Science - -	2	G	Science - -	2	G
German - -	3	B	German - -	3	B
Drawing - -	6	A&B	Drawing - -	6	C
French may be substituted for German in the 3d and 4th years.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
61
DESCRIPTION OF COURSES.
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
A.
(«) Meiklejohn’s “Art of Writing English./’ with
daily exercises in class. Two themes a week.
{b} The elements of versification. Scansion, one
hour a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse.
Memory work.
(?) Required reading : Poe’s ‘1 Poem’s, ” ‘1 Rvange-
line,” “Fioretti,” “Snow-Bound,” “The Vision of
Sir Launfal,’’ 1 ‘ Ancient Mariner,” “ The Sketch Book,”
‘‘ Robinson Crusoe,’ ’ Poe’s ‘ ‘ Tales,” “ Treasure Island,”
‘ ‘ The Merchant of Venice, ” “ Julius Caesar. ’ ’
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one year.]
B.
*
(a)	Hill’s “Principles of Rhetoric,” Part I., with
daily exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The simpler verse-forms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.	’
(z?) Required reading: “The Lady, of the Rake,”
“Silas Marner,” “The Princess,” “The Flight of the
Tartar Tribes,” “The Courtship of Miles Standish,”
‘1 Ivanhoe, ” “ As You Like It, ” “ Macbeth.’ ’
( Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one year.]
62
bulletin oe the
G
(a) Hill’s “Principles of Rhetoric,” Part II., with
daily exercises in class. Fortnightly theme.
(&) Verse-forms continued. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c) Required reading: “The Golden Treasury of
Fnglisli Lyrics,” Milton’s “Minor Poems,” Macaulay’s
“ Bssay on Milton,” “Sir Roger de Coverley,” Ma-
caulay’s “ Rssay on Addison,” Burke’s “Speech on the
Conciliation of America,” Webster’s “Bunker Hill
Oration,” Lincoln’s “Gettysburg Oration,” “A Mid-
summer Night’s Dream,” ‘c King Lear.”
(Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Five hours a week for one year.]
D.
(a) Genung’s c ‘ The Working Principles of Rhetoric, ’ ’
Part I., with daily exercises in class. Monthly essay.
(£) Verse-forms concluded. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c) Required reading : Selections from 11 Paradise
Lost,” Cary’s “Dante” and Pope’s “Homer,” “The
Idylls of the King,” “The Dream of Gerontius,”
Aubrey de Vere’s “Poems,” “The Tempest,” “Ham-
let,” Gates’ “Selections from Newman,” “The House
of the Seven Gables.”
( Some of these works to be thoroughly studied, at the discretion
of the teacher.)
[Four hours a week for one year.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	63
COURSES IN MATHEMATICS
A.
Aegebra — This course for beginners in Algebra in-
cludes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
dwelt upon in particular are Factoring, Highest Com-
mon Factor and Least Common Multiple, which are
afterward applied in their relation to Fractions and the
reduction of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible,
concrete examples of their applications to kindred
scientific subjects are supplied by the teacher.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Aegebra — In this course the study of Equations is
begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Fractional Equations, Systems of Simultaneous
Equations, Involution, Evolution, Radicals and Ex-
ponents complete the course which is supplemented
wherever possible with problems of practical application.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.	’
AegEbra — This course begins with Quadratic Equa-
tions, Pure and Affected, followed by Systems of Simul-
taneous Quadratic Equations and those forms of Radical
Equations of Higher Degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and Proportion, Indeterminate
Equations, Surds, Imaginaries, Inequalities, the Pro-
gressions and the Binomial Theorem finish the work in
this course. As in the preceding courses, special stress
is placed upon the application of the theory to such
examples as will show its application to elementary
scientific subjects.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
64
BULLETIN OF THE
D.
Geometry — This subject is completed as far as the
end of Plane Geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original proposi-
tions. The habit of independent thinking is cultivated
to some extent by the solution of special problems of
concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation of the
processes studied to practical examples.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
Geometry—The study of Solid Geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that of
the preceding term. Planes, Solid Angles, Polyhedrons,
the Cylinder, Cone and Sphere are all studied in detail
and the solution of original exercises and propositions of
application is made a feature of the course.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
'	F.
Algebra and Geometry—This course which con-
tinues through one scholastic year is designed especially
for those students who wish to take up the study of
Fngineering. As this necessitates a thorough ground
work in mathematics, the first half of the year is given
to a review of Algebra and Geometry, three hours and
two hours per week respectively. The most important
theorems and subjects are again studied and a more
comprehensive view of the subject is attained in the
generalizing of many theorems and extending the range
of others.	'
[Five hours a week for one term.]
’	G.
Algebra and Geometry — The work of this term is
entirely given up to an elementary exposition of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
65
application of mathematics to scientific problems and to
analysis. In lectures and class work actual problems
representing existing and practical conditions will be
taken up, and the derivation of approximate formulae
and an elementary study of curves derived from experi-
ment are included.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
H.
Trigonometry—A half year is given to this subject
which includes both Plane and Spherical Trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
elementary text-books. Special attention is given to
Goniometry on account of its application to Calculus, and
examples of a concrete nature are abundantly supplied.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN HISTORY.
Ancient History—Fisher’s “ Outlines of Universal
History.” The Oriental Nations. The History of Greece
and of the Umpire of Alexander. The Story of Rome.
The Establishment of the Empire, and the rise of
Christianity.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
B.
Mediaeval History — Fisher’s “ Outlines.” The
Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mahommedanism and
the Saracen Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire. The
Invasion of the Northmen and the Magyars. The Em-
66
BULLETIN OF THE
pire and the Papacy. The Great Schism and the rise of
the nations of Modern Bur ope.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
C.
Modern History—Fisher’s “Outlines.” The Re-
naissance. The Age of Discovery. The Protestant
Reformation. The Power of Spain. The Strifes of
France with Spain and Germany. The age of Louis
XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish and
Austrian Successions. The Bmpire of Bngland. The
American Revolution. The French Revolution and the
Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the Spirit of
Nationality. The Formation of Germany and Italy.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN SCIENCE.
A.
Physical Geography — An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the
world about him. The various types of plant and animal
life together with topographical and climatic conditions
will be considered.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physioeogy—Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygience of the
bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
67
muscles. The digestive, circulatory and excretorj^
systems demonstrated by models and charts. The
anatomy and structure of the nervous system and simple
experiements on the same. Text-book, Martin.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Elementary Botany — A course for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and
seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant life
and their classification is also given. Text-book, Bastin’s
‘c Elements of Botany. ’ ’
[Three hours a week for one term.]
D.
Elementary Zoology — Includes an introduction to
the subjects with studies of representative forms and
their classification in the different groups of the animal
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Three hours a week for one term.] ’
E.
(<2) Elementary Chemistry — An introductory
Course of experimental lectures on familiar subjects
such as water, the air and its constituents, common
salt, etc., leading up to discussions of the more im-
portant elements and their properties, and the funda-
mental laws and phenomena of Chemistry. Reference-
book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
Experimental Chemistry — A Laboratory
Course to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises
to be performed by each student, and having as their
68
BULLETIN OF THE
main object the cultivation of the student’s powers of
observation and faculty of inducive reasoning. These
exercises comprise a study of the principal metalic ele-
ments, including their preparation, properties and more
familiar compounds. The directions for each experi-
ment are made as brief as possible, fhe observation of
facts and the drawing of correct conclusions therefrom
being left, so far as the nature of the experiment will
permit, to the pupil.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
Elementary Physics—Instruction in the Elementary
Physics is given by lectures and recitations in which the
general laws of Mechanics, Heat, Acoustics, Optics,
Electricity and Magnetism are presented. The course is
intended to meet the needs of those who desire a general
knowlege of the subject, as well as to lay the foundations
for advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
The Laboratory Work of this course consists of a
series of experiments which verify and apply practically
the fundamental principles of Physics. The student also
receives instruction in the use and careful handling of
apparatus, accurate observation, and correct deduction of
results. Neat and concise reports of all experiments are
kept by each student and form the basis for the grades
in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	69
G.
Astronomy - Descriptive — This course is intended
to give students as much knowledge of astronomical facts
as can be obtained with only an elementary training in
mathematics. The study consists of a description of the
earth ; its form, size, density and motion ; a study of the
moon and her motions; the sun and its relation to the
earth; an account of eclipses, refraction and aberration
of light. A description of the planets, their distances,
dimensions and physical conditions ; a study of parallax,
diurnal and annual; an account of meteors and comets.
A study of the stars and constellations; instruction is
given to enable students to name and locate the more
prominent. The subject of Cosmogony is considered
briefly as well as^an explanation of the different systems
of Astronomy. The subject is given both by lectures
and text-book.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
A.
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended to
give the student some knowledge of the general principles
of government and of the American Constitution. The
subject begins by defining government; then is con-
sidered the object and necessity of government; origin
of civil society ; the principle of suffrage; different forms
of government defined and compared ; theories of repre-
sentation. These topics necessarily are treated briefly,
70
BULLETIN OF THE
as the principal part of the coarse consists of a study of
the Colonial governments, the Articles of Confederation
and their defects, the formation of the Constitution and
its adoption. Now the study comprises a critical analysis
of each article and section of the American Constitution,
thus enabling the student to acquire a clear conception
of the division of powers of the National Government
and the duties and responsibilities of each department.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN GERMAN.
A.
Grammar — Joynes - Meissner.	‘ f Deutches Lese-
buck, ’3 Bone.	%
Themes — Original and imitative work.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
B.
Special Course for students in the English and
Scientific Courses.
Grammar — Joynes - Meissner.
Readings from scientific and literary works.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN FRENCH.
A.
Houghton’s “French by Reading.” “Un Cas de Con-
science. ’ ’ Super’s ‘ ‘ Reading from French History. ’ ’
[Five hours a week for one year.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
71
B.
French Composition. “L’Avare,” “Le Voyage de
M. Perichon. ” “ Le Roi des Montagnes. ’ ’
[Three hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN DRAWING.
A. and B.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
Advance work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which
afford the study of light and shade.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
C.
This work embraces the principles of projections,
methods of shop - drawing, tinting, tracing, blue print-
ing, line-shading and the preparation of working draw-
ings of complete machines.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
72
BULLETIN OF THE
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY,
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no
need of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without
endowment, and its work is seriously hampered because
it has no resources except the fees of students. There
are two scholarships and the interest from these founda-
tions is used in educating and boarding two students.
There were in 1901 1,452 Catholic students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and
very many of these will lose their faith, and all will be
weakened in that faith, because our people look upon
collegiate institutions as the property of private cor-
porations which are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys that can
not pay the expense of education, and who therefore are
obliged to go to non-Catholic colleges to the detriment of
their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and
board a student as long as the University exits. As one
bursar is graduated another can take his place. The
founder of the scholarship, of course, always has the
privilege of appointing the student.
We lack money for a library building, and for two
more dwelling-halls like Sorin Hall.
Foundations for scholarships are also a pressing need.
There is no Library fund for the purchase of new
books.	,
The names of benefactors will be given to all
foundations.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THE UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME— BIRD’S EYE VIEW.
74
BULLETIN OF THE
BEQUESTS SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS FORM :
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAG
I give, devise and bequeath to the UNIVERSITY
OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC, an institution incor-
porated under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
located at Notre Dame, Indiana..............................
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Is a 28-page paper devoted to the interests of the stu-
dents and published by them every week during term
time. The journal is in the hands of a student board of
editors and students do all the writing for it. Work
done for The Scholastic is regarded as supplementary to
the theoretical work of the English courses; hence the
character of the articles,—essays on literary subjects,
biographical sketches, short stories, exercises in verse,
book-reviews, etc. As contributors are expected to pre-
pare their own copy for the press and to do their own
proof-reading, they gain no small amount of practical
experience.
Although The Scholastic is published chiefly for the
sake of the students attending the University, their
parents and all former students will see things of interest
in its columns. Reports of the popular lecture course and
of events happening at Notre Dame and other colleges,
personal notices, athlectic notes, reviews of the work
done in the debating and other classes, find place in the
paper and keep parents and others informed about
matters that concern their children and friends.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50 per
annum.
Address all commuications to
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana*
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS.
( One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.)
Beautifully and healthfully located on an eminence overlooking
the banks of the St. Joseph River. Enjoys a national patronage.
All the branches of a thorough English, Classical, Scientific and Com-
mercial Course with Modem Languages taught. On completion of
the College Course students are entitled to the Degree A. B., Litt.
B., or B. S.	'
THE PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT. Here pupils are trained
in the regular, Special and College Preparatory Courses.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT provides for the tender care, and
special instruction of children under the age of twelve years.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC is conducted on the plan of
the best Classical Conservatories.
THE ART DEPARTMENT is modeled after the leading Art
Schools of Europe.
GYMNASIUM with resident director, a graduate of Dr. Sargent’s
Normal School of Physical Training, Cambridge, Mass. Over two
hundred acres devoted to walks, and outdoor sports.
The AIM of moral, intellectual and physical training is to prepare
young women for lives of usefulness. The constant growth of the
Academy has necessitated the erection of additional fine buildings
with latest Hygienic equipments. Moderate Cost. Eor Catalogue
anl information apply to
THE DIRECTRESS,
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
ST. MARY'S ACADEMY—BIRD’S EYE VIEW.