Series I,
Number IV,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
ENGINEERING NUMBER
::A905r i?Q6} ....
■' ■	■	•	' /ZSh
PUBLISHED QUA^TSSSSY AT MOTIFS DANS
Uraiversity Press
April, 1906
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as Second class matter,
July 17, 1905,

Series I.	Number IV.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
ENGINEERING NUMBER
1905 - 1906
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
UNIVERSITY PRESS
April, 1906
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY*
'The FACULTY—Address:
THA univarsity of notrb DAME, ‘
Notrk Damk, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the faculty, except that the name of the
Hard in which the student lives should be added.
«
A Postofhce, a Telegraph Office, a Rong Distance
Telephone, and an Kxpress Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa; and
dhe Michigan Central railways run directly into South
JBend.
CALENDAR FOR 1905-1906.
SEPTEMBER 12. 13-14. 15.	Examinations of Conditioned Students. Entrance Examinations. Colleges open. Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls.
17.	
	
OCTOBER	13.	Founder’s Day.
27-28.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
29.	Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
NOVEMBER 1.	Feast of All Saints.
30.	Thanksgiving Day.
DECEMBER 5.	Contest in Oratory.
8.	Feast of the Immaculate Conception.
18-19.	Winter Examinations.
19.	Christmas Vacation begins.
JANUARY	5.	Colleges open.
FEBRUARY 2.	State Oratorical Contest.
22.	Washington’s Birthday.
23-24.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
MARCH	17.	St. Patrick’s Day.
19.	St. Joseph’s Day.
APRIL	15.	Easter. No Easter Vacation.
16.	Easter Monday.
24-25.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
MAY	1.	Latest Date for handing in Prize and Grad- uation Essays in all Collegiate Courses.-
16.	Contest in Elocution.
30.	Decoration Day.
JUNE	4-9.	Examination of Graduates.
10.	Baccalaureate Sermon.
11-13.	General Examinations.
13.	Commencement. Preliminary Exercises- 7:30 p. m.
14.	Graduation Exercises, 8:00 A. M.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Very R^v. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rrv. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
Rrv. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
R^v. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
SBCRRTARY.
R^v. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
TREASURER.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
Rev. WILLIAM A. MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OE STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREEECT OR DISCIPLINE.
Rev. WILLIAM MARR, C. S. C.,
prefect of religion.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
secretary.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
REV. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
REV. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. O.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.	Mr. W. O’BRIEN, C. S. C..
CORBY HALL.
REV. THOS. H. CORBETT, C. S. C. Mr. S. GAVIN, C. S. C..
Mr. J. McMANUS, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.	Bro. AIDAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. JOSEPH, C. S. C..
CARROLL HALL.
Bro JUST, C. S. C.	Bro. GEORGE, C. S. C..
Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.	Bro. LOUIS, C. S. C..
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL.
Bro. ELORIAN, C. S. C.	Bro. COLEMAN, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.	Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.
Bro. ERNEST, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
7
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is :
11 Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Mari vault, Francis Gouesse,
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant or cause to be conferred and granted,
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other universities
in the United States.”
8
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE MAIN BUILDING.
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-rooms are
in this building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
others in the University, is lighted by electricity and
gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of the first
floor are decorated with mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 feet in height from the floor
to the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theater. The
Theater is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It
will seat 1,200 persons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south, of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens.
the civil engineering department
occupies a portion of the basement of Science Hall
as a laboratory. The lecture rooms are in the main build-
ing. The equipment of this department is sufficient for all
the practice and exercises in the field necessary to illus-
trate and teach the practical methods of engineering.
The instrumental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit,
three engineer’s transits with levels and vertical circles
attached to telescopes, also solar attachment, two en-
gineer’s wye levels and a plane table with all the attach-
ments, clinometers, chains, tapes, levelling rods, etc.,
and one Olsen’s cement testing machine.
THE CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first floor of
Science Hall. Adjoining the general museum, is
a large and well-lighted room reserved for a library
and chemical museum. Here are a library of chem-
ical journals and books, and a steadily increasing
collection of minerals, chemicals, and chemico-technical
products of all kinds, designed to serve as illustrations
of substances and processes, discussed in the various
lecture courses. Adjoining this room are successively,
an apparatus room, filled with the most modern apparatus
for lecture and experimental work; a chemical store-
room, where laboratory supplies may be procured by the
students; a lecture room, and a laboratory for qualita-
tive and quantitative analysis. The laboratory is fur-
IO
BULLETIN OB THE
nished with, hoods, of good draught; the desks are
provided with water, gas, and the necessary reagents,
and fully equipped with apparatus for work in gas
analysis, organic analysis, and with apparatus for ‘ ‘ Boil-
ing Point and Breezing Point Determinations.” The
Balance Room, adjoining, contains assay and analytical
balances sensitive to one ten-thousandth of a gramme.
The lecture room is provided, among other things, with
apparatus for stereopticon illustration, with .electric bat-
teries, and with a complete set of charts illustrative of
the process employed in modern chemical industries.
The assay and furnace room, in the basement, is
equipped with a set of gas furnaces of the most modern
type, for the operations of roasting, fusing, scorifying
and cupelling employed in the dry assay of ores.
The Department of
PHYSICS AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture
room, with a seating capacity of sixty-five students,
adjoining the rooms in which the apparatus is stored in
dust-proof cases. Several smaller rooms in the basement
contain heavy piers of masonry, for work with sensitive
galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Laboratories :
IN MECHANICS, ETC.:
Large physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard metre,
Geneva cathetometer, capable
of measuring to one twenty-
five thousandth of an inch,
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit recording chrono-
graph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Rotary air pumps and receivers,
A large clock with electrical
contact pieces,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	II
Self-winding clocks,	Two aneroid barometers.
Several mercury barometers,
IN ACOUSTICS :
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
Set of electrically - operated
tuning forks by Koenig,
A Scott-Koenig Phonautograph,
Edison phonograph of earliest
type,
Sets of vibrating rods, tubes
and bells,
Large double siren,
A set of very small tuning forks
producing the highest audible
sounds,
A set of resonators mounted to
gether with capsules for sen-
sitive flames, arranged for the
analysis of complex sounds,
Koenig’s movable tuning forks,
to draw compound curves on
smoked glass,
Three sets of organ pipes,
Four sets of fine tuning forks,
Apparatus for manometric
observation of sound pheno-
mena,
A large tuning fork producing
the lowest audible sound,
Apparatus for producing longi-
tudinal vibrations in rods,
An electrical metronome,
Mounted tuning forks carry-
ing small mirrors arranged
to perform Lissajou’s experi-
ment, producing complex
curves.
IN EIGHT :
Complete set of apparatus,
made by Soleil, Paris, for the
measurement of the wave
length of light by various
interference methods,
Sets of polarization apparatus,
Sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors,
Two heliostats,
Four spectroscopes,
A polarizing saccharimeter,
Three projecting lanterns for
gas or electric light, and
3,000 slides,
Set of large Nicol’s prisms
mounted,
Large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum,
Two Rowland gratings, 14,000
lines to the inch,
Set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland,
Several cameras with lenses
and attachments,
A well equipped dark-room for
photographic work,
Photometric room and equip-
ment.
12
BULLETIN OF THE
IN HEAT:
Melloni’s apparatus for measur-
ing radiation, absorption and
reflection of heat, complete
with a set of prepared sub-
stances,
Standard thermometers,
Air thermometers,
Steam engine indicator,
Calorimeters,
Apparatus for determing the
coefficient of linear expan-
sion, using the optical lever
method.
IN ELECTRICITY AND magnetism :
An absolute electrometer,
Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static pheno-
mena,
Four induction coils,
Six bridges of different types,
Ammeters and voltmeters,
One 2,000 lb. electro magnet,
Standard resistance coils,
Several sets of storage cells,
Historical set of motors show-
ing evolution of the modern
machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type,
Ten galvanometers of various
types,
Complete X-ray outfit,
Sets of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy.
In addition to the electrical apparatus in the Depart-
ment of Physics, the equipment for practical work in
Electrical Engineering consists of engines, dynamos,
instruments, etc., of commercial size, as follows :
A three phase A. C. induction
motor, arranged to operate on
single phase circuits, with a
condenser compensator,
A high frequency 1000 V., 33 X.
W., composite wound, Wood
alternator of the latest type
with excitater and a full set of
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of differ-
ent capacity,
A high tension transformer for
testing insolation,
An Edison bipolar 15 K. W.
I25 V., generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and
fifteen lamps,
A Wood arc machine, capacity
25 lights,
An Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125
V., dynamo, with special
winding,
A Van Depoele compound
wound dynamo,
A special A. C. and D. C. 5 H. P.
dynamo or rotary converter,
A series wound dynamo with
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
A forty horse power high speed
automatic engine,
A set of inclined coil
alternating current portable
instruments; voltmeter,
ammeter and wattmeter,
A set of tools for metal work-
ing,
Telegraphing relays, sounders,
switchboards, etc.,
Telephone apparatus, including
subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop
manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops,
jacks, switches, lightning
arresters, etc.,
Automatic telephone switch-
board containing first and
second selector and con-
nector switches, interrupter
heat coils, etc., and three
subscribers sets. With this
apparatus all the operations
involved in the operation of a
10000 system may be per-
formed,
A complete central energy
switchboad, several lines and
•subscribers sets and a selective
signaling four party line out-
fit,
A collection of historical sets,
including Reis’ transmitter
and receiver,
Standard portable bridge,
Common portable bridge,
Testing battery,
A power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and
hand tools for metals,
A calibrating lamp rack,
D’Arson val and common gal-
vanometers,
Ballistic galvanometer, stand-
ard condenser, etc., for
capacity work,
Resistance boxes, standard
megohms, etc.,
High resistance Thompson gal-
vanometer,
Standard cells,
Voltameter arranged for the
comparison of incandescent
lamps,
A plug switchboard controlling
all circuits,
A small engine belted to shaft-
ing to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and
polishing work to be plated;
solution, tank, etc.,—in all,
a complete outfit for electro-
type work,
A hot wire ammeter,
Twelve ammeters and volt-
meters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current meas-
urements,
A set of wood working tools,
Kohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery resistance, etc.,
A lot of arc lamps, series and
constant potential, open and
enclosed arcs of various types,
A dynamometer type wattme-
ter,
Recording wattmeters of varr
.ous types,
A collection of motor starting
rheostats,
A set of parts of incandescent
lamps showing the various
stages in their manufacture,

BULLETIN OF THE
A large collection of porcelain
insulators, etc., used in elec-
trical work, including a lot
of insulators for high tension
transmission lines,
A lot of armature core disks,
transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders,
pole pieces, samples of insu-
lation, commutator segments,
etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading
manufacturers of electrical
machinery,
A case of marked samples of
wire insulators, lamps, and
other construction materials,
Eibrary of practical technical
books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and
trade publications,
A Cooper Hewitt mercury vapor
lamp,
A high frequency Tesla cod and
condenser,
A working model of the induc-
tion motor showing the action
of the rotating field,
A transmission dynamometer
capacity 14 to io horse power
for determining the efficiency
of small dynamos.
Full size armature winding
models mounted to rotate in
bipolar and multipolar fields,
A storage battery, 25 cells with
with universal switch to con-
nect for various voltages.
EQUIPMENT IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF BIOLOG-Y,
GEOLOGY, AND MINERALOGY.
The department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-
graduate students. All the class-rooms are furnished
with charts and models necessary in teaching the dif-
ferent courses. The arrangement of windows is such
that the rooms can be easily darkened so that a stere-
op ticon and lantern slides on the subjects of Botany,
Zoology", and Physiology may be used.
The laboratories are well equipped with compound
and dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a
library of books pertaining to biological subjects. The
botanical laboratory contains twenty-four compound
microscopes and all the requisite accessories for work in
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAJE.
15
Vegetable Histology and Cryptogamic Botany. The gen-
eral laboratory of Microscopy, Histology and Embry-
ology is also supplied with compound microscopes and
the equipments indispensable in the courses mentioned
above.
' The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
’with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
■careful work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a
laboratory of Photo-Micrography which contains a per-
fect photo-micrographic instrument with a complete set
■of accessory apparatus for experimentation, photograph-
ing microscopic objects, making lantern-slides, etc. A
large and fully equipped dark-room adjoins this labora-
tory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-
rooms and laboratories for the courses in Geology and
Mineralogy. The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms
;are well equipped for work in blow-pipe analysis and
•assaying.
THE MUSEUM.
' -connected with the departments described above, is well
.arranged for convenience of study. The zoological col-
lection on the second floor at present fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
.genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large
collection of representative vertebrate skeletons has re-
cently been added to this part of the Museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists
of two complete Herbaria, one of the United States,
The other of Canada. There is also a second collection
of the woods and fruits of the United States, almost
complete.
The collections' in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
16	BULLETIN OF THE
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series
of cases on each side of the building. In one series is a
carefully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large geological col-
lection; some of the specimens here are of the rarest
fossil remains of animal and plant life.
ENGINEERING HALL.
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick building, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the mechan-
ical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop and
foundry. The second floor is given up to the wood shop
and also contains a well lighted drawing room where
students in designing may consult complete working
drawings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
The wood shop is supplied with modern work-benches
fully equipped with the smaller tools necessary for car-
pentry, lathes for turned work, two jig saws, a pony
planer, a joiner, circular saw and band saw, the whole
forming an adequate equipment for a thorough mastery
of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The machine shop contains two horizontal slide valve
steam engines which are used for experimental purposes.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running „ the entire length of the building.
The latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed having a
capacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two
drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
17
Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit,,
thus making the machine shop a model of its kind. Dur-
ing the past year there have been completed in the
machine shop seven new screw cutting lathes of four-
teen inch swing, one twenty-eight inch Sibley and
Ware drill-press, one horizontal 8 by 12 slide valve steam
engine and a wood milling machine which will be added
to the equipment in the new building. It is the policy
of this department to refrain as much as possible from
exercise work and each student is usually taking part
in the construction of some new machine or engaged on
general repair work for the University which is regarded
superior to a fixed routine of exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up -and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with,
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregat-
ing 1200 horse power. In connection vjjth the boilers is
installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows :—a
Worthington hot water meter for measuring the amount
of feed water, a feed water thermometer for getting
temperature of same, a high range thermometer for
temperature of generated steam, a throttling calometer
for ascertaining the quality of steam and an automatic
recording pressure gauge giving a continuous record of
18
BULLETIN OF THE
the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding the
temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means of a
pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining samples
of flue gas for analysis. These, with a Carpenter coal
calorimeter for determining the heating value of fuel,
■comprise a full and complete equipment for giving the
student an intimate knowledge of the practical part of
boiler management and testing. A Webster feed water
heater and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two large
Worthington fire pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with a capacity of
1500 gals, per minute, with numerous separators, steam
traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete the
apparatus in the main steam plant. A McEwen high
speed automatic engine, an Armington and Simms engine
of similar type and several low speed horizontal engines
with planimeters, indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules
.and other necessary instruments, are used in studying
the operation of the steam engine, distribution and econ-
■omy of steam, regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal ten-horse power four cycle gas engine completely
equipped for experimental runs, a five horse power two
■cycle vertical gas engine of the marine type, one Mot-
.-singer Auto-sparker with induction coil, one Apple
Ignition dynamo with storage battery, a Hendricks
Automatic Igniter together with carburettors, spark
plugs,- spark coils, indicators, and all necessary equip-
ment for a complete study of the gas engine.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
■occupy a large three story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to
advanced work and space is given to two large labora-
tories and lecture rooms. The second floor is occupied
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	19
by the Department of Pharmacy, and contains a large
well-equipped laboratory, a modern drug store, a lecture
room and museum a library for pharmaceutical
publications, and a general stock room. The general
Inorganic, Organic and Elementary Chemical laboratories
are on the third floor. Each laboratory is provided
with ample hood accomodations, and each desk is fur-
nished with water, gas, and suction. •
SORIN HALL.
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
112 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of the
Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room, and a law
library. The building is lighted with electricity and
heated with steam. In the basement are recreation
rooms and bath rooms.
.	CORBY HALL.
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation
rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted with
electricity and gas and heated with steam. For room-
rent and care of the room a fee is charged.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This building is located near the Chemical laboratories,
and is designed for an equatorial telescope and for a transit:
or meridian circle. The equatorial telescope now in the
building is intended for students of Astronomy, and is,
in-use whenever favorable weather permits.
20
BULLETIN OF THE
THE INFIRMARY.
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for
the use of students during illness. The sick are nursed
by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University physi-
cian visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM.
The gymnasium which was burnt down in November,
1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground: it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
new apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
and showerbaths. Triends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than $3,000 to the fund for
rebuilding.
The Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic
games. There isa permanent grand stand near the base- -
ball diamond and the cinder track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten acres
of ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, C. E., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS.
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principal are: Saint
Joseph’s Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Edward’s Hall.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
DISCIPLINE.
Official bi-monthly reports of each student’s class
standing will be sent to parents and guardians.
The Faculty maintain that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of a
youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible
to bring about this development where students are
granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty government
while outside the class-room. A young man must learn
obedience to the law by the actual practice of obedience,
not by mere appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtained except where
•discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown to be
salutary by experience, are enforced at the University :
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
■delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave cf absence will not be granted to students dur-
ing the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity. There
is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
"but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrc nt disob cdiei ce to authority, cheating in exam-
inations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the
use of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
.absence from the University limits are among the causes for
22	BULLETIN OF THE
expulsion. In case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees will be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,.
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age: boys-
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall; and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hail.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to those-
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls who have
received 'from their parents written permission to user
tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or
Corby Hall leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations arer
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic-
instituticn, and all students are required to attend divine'
service in the University Church at stated, times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is strictly pro-
hibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of’
study will not be permitted, but students are expected to*
take part in outdoor sports and other games.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted’,
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are-
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors of?
professionalism.
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board,
of Control which wull be guided in its rulings by the-
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The-
President of the University and members of the Faculty
will compose this Board, and reserve the right of a final)
decision on all questions concerning athletics. The
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
23
Faculty Board will determine tlie amateur standing of
the members of the athletic teams and apportion the
finances. By this means indiscrete and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Among those who have addressed the
University in the past few years may be noted four
Apostolic Delegates: Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli,
and Monsignors Falconio and Agius; Archbishops Ire-
land, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and
Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, O’Gorman and
Shanley. There were also such noted European church-
men as the Abbe Felix Klein and the foremost of living
English historians, Doni Gasquet, besides men of letters
like Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry
Van Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats,
James Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie and
Henry Janies, and such men of affairs as Senator Taft,
ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge, Secretary of Navy
Charles Jerome Bonaparte, William P. Breen and Bourke
Cockran. Concerts are given frequently by organizations
from without.
24
BULLETIN OF THE
EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, (Lat'n, Greek and Modern Languages
included) Lodging, Washing, and Mending of Linens,
per Session of nearly Ten Months.......... 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On Entrance in September:	’
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)................$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition........................ 250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account..................... 10.00
Special Lecture and Concert Course.......................... 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra Expense the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed below), and Spending Money.
On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition..................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Sessions, September and. January. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scho
lastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the
student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice;
and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself
from the University at any time or for any cause without proper
permission. However, an exception is made if it seems to be
expedient for him to go to his home because of severe or pro-
tracted illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any student
whose accouzit with the University has not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
- For whole Session of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS —
Sorin Hall: Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores, Free;
Freshmen.......................................$50.00
Corby Hall..................................... 80.00
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME.	25
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the
following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year.
"The charges will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
-InstrumentalMusic—Les-	Use of each Instrument. .$ 5.00
sons on Piano and use	Vocal Culture......... 40.00
of Instrument........$60.00 Elocution — Special
'Use of Piano for Ad-	Course.............. 10.00
van ced Students.....30.00 Use of Library............ 5.00
'Telegraphy............ 25.00	“Scholastic”—College
- Typewriting—Full Course	Paper................ 1.50
(20 Lessons) ......... 5.00	Artistic Drawing...... 25.00
Phonography............ 25.00	Applied Electricity...... 40.00
Practical Mechanics.... 30.00 Special Lecture and Con-
-Lessons on Violin, Guitar,	cert Course.......... 3.00
Flute, Cornet, Clarinet	Gymnastics—Full Course
or Mandolin.......... 30.00	(20 Lessons)......... 5.00
Laboratory Fees Listed under Regular Courses.
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a Degree, $10.00; Commercial
■Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
"etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, postoffice money order or
•express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
•charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed during
.the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend then
Summer Vacation under the care of the University authorities
.can be accomodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the Univer-
sity, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesiastical
state can be received at special rates. Fuller information can be
obtained by addressing the President.
College of Engineering
Department of Civil Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Electrical Engineering
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING.
In the industrial development of a country the en-
gineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programmes of studies in the three departments
of engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that are
applied in engineering work. Mathematics is foremost
among these requirements. The natural sciences receive
their share of attention and due importance is given to
languages in arranging the programmes of studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to cor-
respond as closely as possible to the real work of the
engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are ac-
quired by applying the results of mathematical calcula-
tions to particular practical cases in laboratory work,
Three regular programmes have been arranged; one
leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, and one to the de-
gree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accomodate those who wish
30
BULLETIN OF THE
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest possi-
ble time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work.
( For list of available apparatus, see pages 9-18.)
In the schedules of studies one hour credit is given for
each recitation or lecture which requires from one to two
hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in laboratory
work or drawing are required for each hour on the
schedule.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 24, the regular
students in the three Engineering Courses are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appa-
ratus used, as follows:
LABORATORY RATES.
Physical Laboratory III.....................$	5.00
Physical Laboratory IV...................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory I., II.............. 15.00
Electrical Laboratory IV.................. 20.00
Shopwork, all four-hour courses, per term.. 15.00
Chemistry 1................................ 5.00
Chemistry II., IV., V., each................ 10.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGE OF
ENGINEERING.
Rev, MARTIN REG-AN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Geology.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. JULIUS NIEUWDAND, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S„
Drawing.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Electrical Engineering and Physics.
WILLIAM DOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. M.,
French.
BENJAMIN R. ENRIQUEZ, C. E.,
Mathematics and Assistant in Civil Engineering.
WILLIAM B. KEELY,
Shopwork.
32
BULLETIN OF THE
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO THE
COLLEGE.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admission
to the University are held at Notre Dame in September,
at the beginning of the Tall term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations
in one or more of the subjects required for admission to
any Collegiate Course may, at the discretion of the
Faculty, be admitted to his class conditionally, to make
up his deficiency by extra study within one school year.
Only when the conditions are removed will the student
be admitted to full standing in his class.
Candidates for admission to advanced classes in any
department are required to pass, in addition to the usual en-
trance examinations, an examination in the work already
done by the classes they desire to enter. The additional
subjects may be found in the programs of studies.
Certificates of work done in public or private High
Schools will not be accepted instead of examinations,
unless the applicant has passed the final examination
after a full course in his school, and the Faculty of the
University are satisfied with the standing of the school.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited
to the State Universities, will be admitted without
examination to the Freshman Year of any department to
which their preparatory studies entitle them.
Applicants for advanced standing who present cer-
tificates from other colleges or universities may be
received at the discretion of the Faculty with or without
examination as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior Year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students who are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences
of Religion.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
33
ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION TO THE
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING.
Geometry — Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry — Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Civics — Elementary.
History—General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Geography—Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr’s text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics — Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar to
Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is
recommended, but is not required.
Chemistry—The elements of Inorganic Chemistry as
given in a High School.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology—As given in
elementary text-books.
Modern Language—Engineering students must pre-
sent a two years’ course in German.
English — Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfactorily
he may begin at once the regular Freshman work ; but
if he is deficient in any one or more subjects he may
enter conditionally and make up his deficiency as soon
as possible in the Preparatory Department.
Credits from High Schools or preparatory schools in
good standing will be accepted in place of examinations.
:34
BULLETIN OF THE
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING.
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession either
in the office or in some of the responsible positions super-
intending the construction and operating of public works.
'To secure these results the student is given, not only a
sound theoretical training in the courses of study but
he is also required to study the practical applications
of the principles upon which the theory is based. The
first two years are devoted to the study of mathematics
and the theoretical branches. The last two years are
given to the study of applied courses—practical work in
the laboratory and field, as much as possible, being
required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional work in these languages; while the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects. In-
struction based upon standard text-books is given
throughout the course by means of lectures, recitations,
practice in laboratory, drawing-room and field. This
work is largely supplemented by assigning to the student,
for solution, practical problems bearing directly upon the
subject matter discussed in the class room and requiring
original investigation, thus training the student to'habits
of independence and awakening his interest in the work
of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
.necessary for effective work in the different branches of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	35.
field engineering. After the student is taught the use
and adjustment of the instruments, surveys, elementary
in character, are commenced and continued progressively
until the more difficult principles and methods are under-
stood. In a similar manner is instruction given in the
Courses in Sanitary Engineering, Hydromechanics, Re-
sistance of Materials, Bridges and Roofs, etc., thus
familiarizing the student with practical engineering sub-
jects, and the most improved method of execution and
designing.
A thesis on some approved subject connected with the
course of study, is required of each student as a con-
dition of graduation. The thesis must .embody the
results of original research.
(For equipment and facilities see pages 9-19.)
(For requirements of admission see pages 32, 33.)
BULLETIN OF TELE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER*
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra - -	5	47	I.	Anal. Geom.	5	47	II.
English. - -	3	75	I.	English - -	3	75	I.
French - -	5	77	I.	French - -	5	77	I.
Chemistry -	3	67	II.	Chemistry -	3	67	II.
Drawing	3	73	I. ,11.	Drawing - -	1	73	II.
				Surveying -	5	50	II.III.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus - -	5	48	III.	Calculus - -	5	48,49	IV. V.
Des. Geometry	3	50	I.	Des. Geometry	3	50	I.
R.R.Survey’g	5	51	VI. VII.	Adv. Survey’g	5	51	IV., V.
Physics - -	5	65	II. III.	Physics - -	5	65	II. III.
Drawing -	1	73	V.	Drawing -	1	73	V.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics -	5	5.	VIII.	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	52	VIII
Geodesy - -	4	53	IX.	Materials -	3	53	X
English - -	3	76	II.	Astronomy -	3	57	I.
Geology - -	2	71	I.	English - -	3	76	II.
Stereotomy -	3	74	VI.	Geology - -	5	72	III.
				Drawing - -	3	74	VII.
SENIOR YEAR.
Engineering -	5	54	XII.	Engineering -	5	54	XII.
Uydromechan	3	56	XVI.	Hydromechan	3	56	XVI.
Bridges, Roofs	5	55	X	Graph. Stat. -	5	56	XII.
Sanitary Eng.	2	55	xni.	Sanitary Eng.	2	55	XIII.
Drawing - -	3	74	VII.	Roads, Pav’mt Thesis - - -	4	54	XI.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
37
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING.
The program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and for
the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only
those capable of adapting themselves to these require-
ments should take it up. The program of the department
is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used
in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the science
of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions
of connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions, to the work done or energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct devel-
opment of kinematics, and the course continues through-
out the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop,
in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When the students have become
sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the work
of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
BULLETIN OF THE
the student by easy steps until he has mastered all the
details of the art.
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up-
in the preparation of a graduating thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of the program,
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show con-
siderable originality.
Bvery possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some one of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the par-
ticular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas engine
design and operation.
A systematic curriculum of study will be outlined in
each individual case leading to a complete and proficient
knowledge of the work undertaken.
Access may be had to all the machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort is
made by the authorities to make the work as compre-
hensive as possible.
(For equipment and facilities see pages'9-19. For requirements
for admission see p?ges 32, 33.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course |			Page	Course
Algebra - -	5	47	I 1	Analyt. Geom	5	47	II
French - -	5	77	I	French - -	5	77	I
Drawing - -	3	73	I	Drawing - -	3	- 73	II
Chemistry -	3	67	II	Chemistry -	3	67	II
Shop work -	3	75	XIV a	ShopwTork -	3	75	XIV b
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus - -	5	48	III	Calculus - -	5	48,49	IV. V
Drawing - -	3	74	VIII	Drawing - -	3	74	VIII
Chemistry -	4	67	IV	Chemistry -	4	68	V
Physics - -	5	65	II III	Physics -	5	65	II, III
Shopwork -	3	75	XIV c	Shop work -	3	75	XIV d
JUNIOR YEAR.
An. Mechanics	5	52	VIII	An. Mechanics	2	52	VIII
Kinematics -	5	60	V	Meeh’s of Mat	3	53	X
English - -	3	75	I	Mach’nDesign	3	60	VI
Physics - -	3	66	IV	Valve Gears	2	60	VII
Shopwork -	3	75	XIV e	English - -	3	75	I
				Drawing -	3	73	IV
		-	j	Shop work -	3	75	XIV f
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of				Steam Engine			
Engineering	2	58	II	Design - -	5	‘59	III
Thermod’nam	5	58	I	Steam Boilers	3	59	IV
Steam Engine				Hydraulics -	5	61	IX
Design -	5	59	III	Thesis - - -			
Mechan’l Lab	3	61	VIII				
Shopwork -	3	75	XIV f				
4°
BULLETIN OF THE
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING,
Theory, Design, and Operation of Gas, Oil,
and Vapor Engines,
This course is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive- motors, and embraces it in theory, design,
construction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost everj’ requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering,
o	o
The essential work of the first year consists of a general
descriptive study of the different types of engines with
discussions on the general management, operation, care
and special uses to which this type of motor may be
applied. During the second year the general theory of
the gas engine is studied and the design of an engine for
a specific purpose is undertaken by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodynamic
efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Experiments
in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation of
vaporizers aud curburetters, construction of spark coils
with management and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room by
the complete building and testing of a gas engine of a
design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each student
is required to prepare the patterns and core-boxes,
machine the castings and forgings, assemble the complete
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
41
-engine and submit a comprehensive report of a test on the
machine constructed. If the report proves satisfactory, a
certificate of proficiency in the field is given to the student
and .the gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this course the student must certify by
examination or certificate, his ability to pursue the studies
of the first year. Candidates shall also write a short
essay, which must be satisfactory in spelling, punct-
uation, sentence and paragraph construction. >
(For equipment and facilities see pages 16-18.J
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra - - - -	5	89	C	Mathematics -	5	90	F & G
Geometry		5	89	E	Trigonometry	5	90	H
Drawing - - -	0 0	73	I	Drawing - - -	3	73	II
Shopwork - -	3	75	XIV a	Shop work - -	o	75	XIV a
Chemistry - -	4	66	I	Physics - - - -	4	65	I
GasEngines -	5	62	XII	| VaporEngines	5	62	XII
SECOND YEAR.
Motor Design .Shopwork - - Daboratory - -	10 6 3	62 75 ‘ 63	XIII XIV g XIII	Motor Design Shopwork - - Laboratory - - Engines and Boilers - - -	IO 6 3 3	62 75 63 61	XIII xivg XIII X
42
BULLETIN OE THE
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
The remarkable development of electrical industries-
during the past few years has created a demand for
men skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work.- The study of the subjects arranged
on the following page is intended to give a general
education as well as a special training in the technical
branches involved in the various practical applications
of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires some skill in
handling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records of
the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
o o
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
center in the growth of which electricity is taking a very
prominent part. Electric powder generated by steam is
now being distributed and utilized in several large plants,
some using the three phase alternating system while
others are using the direct current. One of the largest
water power developments in the middle west is situated
within a few miles of the University. From this
establishment we receive three phase alternating currents
which furnish light for our buildings and grounds, and
power for driving motors in our shops and printing
offices, etc., all of which are operated by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power within
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
43
a short distance. Our students visit all of these plants,
accompanied by an instructor who points out the appli-
cations of the text-book theory in the design of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working
conditions.
(For requirements for admission, degree, etc., see pagess 32-33.)
(For equipment see pages 9-19. )
Bach candidate for graduation must present at the end
of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying the
results of an extended original research on an engineering
subject, chosen at the beginning of the year, with the
approval of the head of the department. The descriptive
part must be typewritten on ledger paper, and bound in
book form together with the drawings.
44
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of Mechanical
Engineer in Electrical Engineering.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra		5	47	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	47	II
French - - - -	5	77	I	French		5	77	I
Drawing - - -	3	73	I	Drawing - - -	3	73	II
Chemistry - -	3	67	II	Chemistry - -	3	67	II
Shopwork - -	3	75	XIV a	Shop work - -	3	75	XIV b
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus		5	48	III	Calculus		5	48	IV
Des. Geom. - -	4	73	III	Des. Geom.- -	4	73	III
Physics		5	65	II, III	Physics			5	65	II, III
Shopwork - -	3	75	XIV c	Shopwork —	3	75	XIV d
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics -	5	52	VIII	An. Mechanics Meeh’s of Mat.	2 3	52 53	VIII IX
Kinematics- -	5	60	V	Machine			
English		3	75	I	Design - - -	5	60	VI VII
Physics		0 o	66	IV	English		3	75	I
Shopwork - -	3	75	XIV e	Physics 			3	66	IV
				Shop work - -	3	75	XIV f
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo Machinery -	5	64	III	Dynamo Machinery -	5	64	III
Thermodyn’m	5	58	I	E' ectri cal Lab	5	64	IV
Electrical Lab	5	64	IV	Designing - -	3	65	V
Designing - - Thesis			3	65	V	Hydraulics - - Thesis		5	61	•I
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
45
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY.
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up this program, which may be com-
pleted in twro years. The short program is arranged to
give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental theories
of electricity and magnetism, as well as a certain
amount of skill in handling electrical machinery and
appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and
elementary physics are included, for they are neces-
sary in order to carry on successfully the practical
work of designing, manufacturing and testing or operat-
ing electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work
is given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and
in the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power are
learned by testing, repairing and making additions to the
University plant and by visiting the numerous electric
establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by an in-
structor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the course and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of' apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as quadratics.
They shall also write a short essay which must be satis-
46
BULLETIN OF THE
factory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and paragraph,
structure.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate stating that fact is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in this course, according to the following
schedule, after they have finished all the work required
for entrance, shall be as given on page 30.
AH' others are special students and for them the fee is
as given on page 25 for Applied Electricity.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT COURSE IN
APPLIED ELECTRICITY,
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Weel	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTIO N	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra- - - -	5	89	c	! Geometry- - -	5	89	D
Drawing — -	3	73	I	: Drawing - - -	3	/3	II
Shopwork - -	3	75	XIV as	Shopwork - -	3	75	XIV b
Physics - — -	4	65	I	Physics 			4	65	I
Applied Electricity -	5	63	I	Applied Electricity -	5	63	I
SECOND YEAR.
Trigonometry Designing - - Shopwork - - Dynamo Machinery - Applied Electricity -	5 3 3 5 5	90 j H 65 i v 75 XIV c 1 64 III 63 i II 1	I Engines and Boilers - - - Designing - - • Shop work - - | Dynamo 1 Machinery - | Applied Electricity - I	3 3 3 5 5	61 75 64 63	X V XIV d III II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
47
COURSES OF STUDY.
{In the description of courses a “term" means nearly
five months!)
COURSES OF PURE MATHEMATICS.
•	I.
Algebra — This course includes a study of the
binomial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice,
chance, variables and limits, series, determinants. Then
follows a thorough study of the general properties and
solution of equations, embracing the subjects of deriva-
tives, transformation, detached coefficients, surd and
imaginary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem; Horner’s method; roots of complex
number.and trigonometric solution of cubic equations.
Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Geometry—This course includes a study
of the point and right line ; conic sections, their equa-
tions and properties ; discussion of the general equation
of the second degree containing two variables; higher
plane curves, equations of the third degree; different
systems of coordinates; transformation of coordinates;
spirals; an elementary course in geometry of three
BULLETIN OF THE
dimensions, embracing the point, straight line, plane,
and surfaces of revolution; transformation of coor-
dinates ; quadric surfaces and supplementary propo-
sitions. Text-books, Bailey, Wood.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Calculus Differential — This course, as also
Courses IV. and V., is designed to meet the require-
ments of engineering students. It includes a study by
the methods for the differentiation of algebraic, loga-
rithmic and exponential, trigonometric, and inverse trig-
onometric functions; successive differentiation and differ-
ential coefficients; treatment of implicit and compound
functions; expansion of functions ; indeterminate forms ;
partial differential coefficients of the first order and of
higher orders; direction of curvature ; radius of curva-
ture ; envelopes; singular points of curves, maxima and
minima of functious of one independent variable, and
of several independent variables; tracing curves, differ-
entials of arcs, plane areas, surfaces and volumes of
revolution. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus Integral—Integration of elementary
forms and of rational fractions ; integration by rational-
ization and by parts; successive integration; multiple
integrals; definite integrals, limits of integration ; double
integration applied to plane areas; rectification of plane
curves ; quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revo-
lution ; surface and volume of any solid ; intrinsic equa-
tion of a curve. This course is supplemented by numer-
ous exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for three months.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
49
Differentiae Equations—An elementary course
for engineering students, supplementary to the Course
of Integral Calculus. It embraces : equation of the first
order and first degree; equations of the first order but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equa-
tions with higher orders. Numerous applications to
Mechanics and Physics are introduced during the course.
Text-book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Eeective Work—The prescribed Courses in Pure
Mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students required to constitute a class in
any one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal.
(£) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock,
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d} Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Advanced Calculus,
Byerly, Todhunter, Williamson. (/) Advanced Analytic
Geometry, Salmon. Analytic Geometry of Three
Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, {h} Quaternions,
Hardy with Kelland and Tart as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
50
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN CIVIL ENGINEERING.
I.
Descriptive Geometry—In this course are consid-
ered problems on the point, right line, and plane; single
curved, double curved, and warped surfaces; problems
relating to tangent planes to single curved, double curved,
and warped surfaces ; intersection of surfaces by planes,
tangencies, development of surfaces; spherical projec-
tions ; orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylindrical,
and conic projections; construction of maps, shades and
shadows; linear perspective; isometric projections;
theory and plates. Numerous practical problems and
exercises requiring the application of the principles of.
Descriptive Geometry, are added by the. instructor.
Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying—This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land;
dividing up land; Public Lands survey. Text-book,
■Gillespie.
[Live hours a week for one term.]
III.
Surveying — Field practice and application of theory ;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field ; solution
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	51
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in
the class room; practice in keeping field notes; compu-
tation and plots.
[Four hours a week for six weeks.]
IV.
Higher Surveying — This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
engineering instruments ; problems pertaining to solar
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit
and stadia; mining surveying; mining claims; survey
of mines with shafts and drifts; determining positions
of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface; theory of
hydrographic and city surveying; geodetic surveying
and leveling; measuring base lines; adjustments of
angles, triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude and azi-
muth ; time and longitude; changing mean time into
sidereal time and sidereal time to mean time. Text-book,
Johnson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Surveying—Fxercises in the field in the adjustment
A
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the field, leveling ; practice in hydro-
graphic surveying.
[Four hours' a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Raieroad Surveying — This course comprises all
the theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets ; obstacles to location of curves ; special
52
BULLETIN OB THE
problems in curves; theory of compound curves; turn-
outs and crossings; curving the rail on curves and eleva-
tion of outer rail; easing grades on curves’; vertical
curves; earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory of
excavation and embankment; correction in excavation
on curves; cross-section leveling. Theory of the tran-
sition curve and practical applications. Text-books,
Searle, Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Railroad Surveying — Bxercises in the field; stak-
ing out and running tangents, simple, compound and
transition curves; execution on the ground of many
problems previously treated theoretically; survey for a
short line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and
setting slope stakes; making profiles and maps; calcu-
lating the necessary excavations and embankments- and
cost of construction; culverts.
[Four hours a week for six weeks.]
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics—The aim ’of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied Mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics, and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
students to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics consid-
ered in this course are: work, energy, conservation of
energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia, ac-
celeration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc.
Text-book, Ziwet.	„
[Five hours a week for first term. Two hours a week
for second term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	53
IX.
Geodesy—This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil Engineering students in the Junior year, and
comprises a study of the instruments and methods of
observation, base measurements and field work of the
triangulation; method of least squares, elementary
course; calculation of the triangulation, and theory of
probable errors; geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and
azimuths. This is followed by a brief discussion of the
figure of the earth. Text-book, Merriman
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Mechanics of Materials—This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of
forces on beams and structures, to design, economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of the
materials of engineering, their properties and methods
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and continu-
ous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns are
examined according to Euler’s, Rankine’s, and other
formulae, and results compared. Some of the other sub-
jects considered in this course, are torsion of shafts, the
transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
. stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and
torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams, reinforced
concrete beams, plate girders and other forms. Then is
studied the subjects, resilience and work, impact and
fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal tension and
54
BULLETIN OF THE
flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,—the course clos-
ing with a study of the mathematical theory of elasticity.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements — This course is intended to
familiarize the student with the practical details of lay-
ing out and constructing highways, the method of drain-
age, grading, and most suitable road covering, the
improvement of streets in cities and materials used for
paving and covering. The manner of preparing the
street before the paving is placed in position is fully
considered and illustrated. The course includes a
thorough discussion of the theory of pavements and a
description of the various materials used such as cobble
and stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood, and broken stone
pavements. The method of preparing plans and speci-
fications for the various conditions arising are considered
and original plans are prepared by students. Attention
is also given to the construction of street-car tracks in
paved streets. Text-book, Baker.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Kngineering — This course is taken by students of
Civil Bngineering in the Senior Year and teaches the
best approved methods of constructing engineering
works and the styles of structures suitable for different
localities. The study is quite comprehensive including
the general theory of the arch and application to the
voussoir arch ; the theory of earth pressure, and the
design of retaining walls; foundations suitable for struc-
tures of various classes in connection with which the
student becomes acquainted, not only with the methods
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
for ascertaining the bearing power of the foundation,
but also the' means for constructing deep foundations.
The methods for tunnel canstruction, sewer construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included in
the course and given by text-book and lectures. The
part pertaining to masonry construction includes a study
of the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the manner of
testing, foundations under water, the crib and open
caisson process, the pneumatic process, the theory of
masonry arches and design, arch centers, selection of
site for bridge piers and arrangement of spans, the de-
tails of construction of bridge piers and manner of loca-
tion, specifications for masonry, etc. Text-books, Howe,
Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering—This course is a study of
the principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts ; shape, material and calcula-
tion of sewers ; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation;
separate and combined systems compared; pollution of
rivers ; chemical precipitation ; results and costs of puri-
fication ; general municipal and domestic sanitation; in-
spection of neighboring works. Text-book, Staley and,
Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roofs—This course comprises a study
of the different systems of trussed bridges and roof
trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced when
loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure and
the effect of wind included. Both graphical and analyt-
ical methods are used. Besides the various systems of
56
BULLETIN OF THE
trussed bridges, which are studied in detail, the plate
girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges, draw
bridges, and roofs of various designs are given equal
attention; the purpose being to familiarize the student
with the different forms and enable him to design and to
estimate the cost of construction. Text-book, Merriman.
,	[Five hours a week for one term.]
Graphical Statics — This course teaches the determ-
ination of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centres of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically determ-
ined by the application of the principles of the force and
equilibrium polygons ; also the determination of stresses
in bridge trusses with parallel chords and with broken
chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive-wheel
loads ; graphical determination of stresses in roof trusses,
graphical treatment of the arch, symmetrical and un-
•symmetrical cases; graphical method of arch-ribs of
hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams; tem-
perature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied to
continuous girders. This course is supplemented by
full explanations, notes, examples, and problems. Text-
book, Merriman.	.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XVI.
Hydromechanics—This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrody-
namics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects submitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes ; fluid friction; Bernaulli's theorem with
friction; Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	57
weirs, and through, tubes ; flow in pipes ; loss of head in
in friction and other losses; flow in conduits, canals,
and rivers ; velocities in cross sections; methods of
gauging the flow, measurement of water power, dynamic
pressure of flowing water ; designing of waterworks and
standpipes; hydraulic motors and relative merits; dis-
cussion of water wheels of different types, and a study
of the conditions determining high efficiencies; classifi-
cation of turbines, and a complete study and discussion
of the different forms. Text-book, Merriman.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSE IN ASTRONOMY.
Astronomy — Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students and
to give them the training and .information necessary for
intelligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their pro-
fessional career. The course comprises a study of as-
tronomical instruments as well as instruments of more
precision than those used in ordinary surveying. The
adjustment and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computations; problems in finding right ascensions and
declination ; different methods for finding latitude, longi-
tude and time are studied in detail, and the methods of
making the observations and their adjustments, and dis-
cussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into sidereal,
and sidereal time into solar. In connection with this
subject is given a more complete study of many of the
topics considered in elementary astronomy, as here they
are treated mathematically ; as for example, methods for
BULLETIN OF THE
finding parallax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and
correction for refraction. The subjects of procession,—
nutation—annual aberration—proper motion of stars,
etc., are studied. Text-book, Young, Greens.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING-
I.
Thermodynamics—The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The*
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refrig-
■ erating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in
detail. Frequent reference is made to trade catalogues,
of which an abundant supply should be obtained by the
student. Text-book, The Steam Engine, by Holmes.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Materials of Engineering— This course, supple-
mented by shopwork and laboratory work in testing
materials of construction, is designed with the purpose
of acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact. The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up and estimates of the cost
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	59
of construction at market prices complete the work.
Thurston’s Materials of Engineering is the text-book
used.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Steam Engine Design—In this course the forms
and sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions
and advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines
for specific work are taken up, which give the student
a thorough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest
researches and contemporary practice may be consulted
in the numerous publications found in the University
Library. During the first term of the Senior Year is
required the complete design with working drawings of
a simple non-condensing steam engine for a specific pur-
pose. The second term is given to designing a multiple
expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine
service. The text-book used is Whitham’s Steam Engine
Design.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.	'
Steam Boieers— This subject is treated much as
that of Steam Engine. The determination of sizes of parts
from considerations of strains, thickness of shells, size
of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of con-
nection of boilers with efficiency of furnaces and life of
boiler, are some of the subjects considered. The method
of determining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface,
heights of chimneys, boiler settings. and materials used
in construction are also discussed. Text-book, Steam
Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
6o
BULLETIN OF THE
Kinematics—This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining
of the parts to move in these paths. The general theory
is then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative
motion of machine parts and kinematic trains, belts,
pulleys, speed cones, link work and other aggregate
combinations. Barr’s Kinematics of Machinery is the
text-book used.
[Three hours recitation and two hours drawing a week
for one term.]
VI.
Machine Design — This work involves a study of
the form and strength of machine parts as applied in
designing with computation of dimensions for fastenings,
bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc.
The derivation of rational formulae and the determination
of empirical formulae are included and applied in design-
ing. The text-books used are Unwin’s Elements of
Machine Design, Low’s Handbook for Mechanical Engi-
neers and Reed’s Machine Design and Drawing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Valve Gears —This course includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are
treated in the same way and in conclusion the student is
made familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text-book is
Halsey’s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	61
. VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory—The work taken up in-
cludes a study of the methods of testing the steam engine
under varying running conditions, valve setting, cali-
bration of thermometers, gauges and indicator springs,
use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dynamometers,
Pelton water wheel, Wier calibration, etc. Text-book,
Carpenter’s Experimental Engineering.
[One afternoon each week for one term.]
IX.
Hydraulics — The object of this courseis to give
■such information in regard to modern turbines and their
installation as is necessary to the hydraulic engineer in
designing a water power plant without going into the
details of turbine wheel designing. Text-book, Thurso’s
Modern Turbine Practice. (Required of Seniors in
Mechanical and Electrical Engineering.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
X.
Steam Engines and Boilers — A briefer course in
the study of boilers and steam engines designed to famil-
iarize the student with the different types in use and
their respective merits. Only that theory is taken up
which is necessary to the working out of practical prob-
lems, the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission, by Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.] •
XI.
Thesis — Each candidate for a degree in this depart-
ment must present for graduation a thesis of considera-
62
BULLETIN OF THE
ble magnitude which will exhibit his knowledge of the
course he has followed. It may embrace designing,
experimental investigation or original research in a
subject selected by the student and approved by the
Professor. The major part of the second term, Senior
Year, is devoted to this work, and graduation is con-
ditional upon the knowledge of Mechanical Engineering
displayed in its preparation.
[Twelve hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Gas Engines—This course, extending over two
terms, is given to a general descriptive study of all the
types of gas engines and explosive motors. The general
construction of gas, oil and vapor engines is studied
together with their adaptation to various, uses. Results
due to change in ignition, compression and variation of
working fluid; methods of speed regulating and govern-
ing and the details of auxiliaries as, pumps, carburetters,
hot tubes, batteries, spark coils and dynamos are dwelt
upon. The text-book used is Gas, Oil and Vapor
Engines, by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Design—A complete study of the ther-
modynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-book,
lectures and drawing board. The major subjects taken
up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due to gas
pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine parts.
Eucke’s Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours recitation and ten hours drawing
per week for two terms.]
XIV.
Gas Engine Construction—The complete working
up from rough castings and forgings of a small type of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
gas engine. This is part of the thesis work and requires
the complete machining and assembling of the engine.
Must be preceded by Courses XII. and XIII.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Gas Engine Laboratory — Indicator practice, com-
mercial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regula-
tion. Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction,
carburetters and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed
by student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Applied Electricity—A course of lectures and
recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on
the general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
application to practical work, as follows : Setting up and
testing primary and secondary batteries, systems of call
bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire and burglar
alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switchboards and
accessories. Experiments with induction coils, magnets,
switches, voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges,
galvanometers and other measuring instruments. The
study of direct current generators and motors, arc and
incandescent lighting systems, street railway machinery
and appliances, electric heating and forging, electrolytic
processes, etc. Text-book, Swoope, Practical Electricity.
v	[Live hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Applied Electricity—Lectures and laboratory work
on the construction and testing of switches, magnets,
64
BULLETIN OK THE
measuring instruments, induction coils, etc. The cal-
dilation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for
lighting and power, the experimental study of alternating
current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the fitting
and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally testing
for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to special pur-
poses. This Course must be preceded by Course I.
(Courses, I. and II., are lequired in the Short Program in
Electrical Engineering ; they are elective for general students
and those studying telegraphy.	.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Dynamo - Electric Machinery—Recitations on the
physical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions
and reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points,
theory of armature winding, the mathematical theory
of alternating currents, phase relations, modern forms
of single phase and multiphase generators and motors,
design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon, Dynamo
Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason, Alternating
Currents.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.	.
Electrical Laboratory —Practical work at wiring
buildings for lights and power, testing circuits for
insulation and grounds, construction and operation of
storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
characteristic curves of particular machines under dif-
ferent conditions, efficiency tests of motors by absorption
dynamometer methods, alternating current dynamo and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
65
transformer tests, the testing of storage batteries, and.
complete plant-efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Designing-—The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance, and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of
circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawings of
direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN PHYSICS.
I.
Physics — A complete course of recitations and lec-
tures, including mechanics, heat sound, light, electricity,
and magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experi-
ments. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
General Physics—In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to phys-
ical phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy
in the mathematical work and in the statements of the
principles involved. Lectures and recitations. Text-
book, Hastings and Beach.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physical Problems—The application of mathematics
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
66
bulletin of the
time. Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity
and magnetism. The work in done in the laboratory
and the student is taught to depend on his own resources
and to check his results.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory—Special advanced work in
heat, light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnet-
ism. Accuracy in observations and in the calculation
and recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they
are following. This course must be preceded by Courses
II. and III.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(For list of apparatus see pages 10-14.)
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.
(Ax the description of these courses, an “hour” means
two sixty-minute periods in the laboratory or one in the
lecture room.'}
I.
O) General Chemistry—A minor Course dealing
with the general principles of the science and embracing
a study of,only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book, Remsen's Elements of Chemistry.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(£) A Laboratory Course covering in the laboratory
the work of the Lecture Course (I. a) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
67
II.
(a) General Descriptive Chemistry—Recitations
and experimental lectures treating of the fundamental
principles of chemistry, and designed to meet the require-
ments of the students of the Engineering department.
Text-book, Hessler and Smith.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
G) A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the needs
of Engineering students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
III.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry—Eor Bio-
logical, General Science and Chemistry students. Lectures
and recitations. A complete study of the elements and
their most important compounds, following the classifi-
cation based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a dis-
cussion of the theories of the science. Careful attention
is given to the technical chemical processes and indus-
tries, and to the writing of chemical reactions. Text-
book, Newth's Inorganic Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(#) Experimental Chemistry-A Laboratory course
to accompany Course III. (a), the work consisting of the
preparation by the student, of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, special
attention is given to the characteristic reactions of the
metals and to the principles of chemical analysis. Text-
book, Thorp.
[Two hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.]
IV.
Qualitative Analysis — The work of this course
comprises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions
68
BULLETIN OF THE
involved in the separation and detection of the more
common inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts,
mixtures of salts, and complex substances such as earths,
ores, ashes, etc. Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by
lectures.
[Four hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
V.
Quantitative Analysis—A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically, and vol-
umetrically. Complete analysis of a number of simple
salts, like Barium -Chloride, with partial analysis of sub-
stances such as steel, lye, drinking-water, etc. Text-
books, Appleton, Schimpf.
[Four hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
VI.
O) Elementary Organic Chemistry — Lectures
and recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their prop-
erties. Special attention is given to the Alipathic and
Aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
(R) Experimental Organic Chemistry—A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prepa-
ration by the student in the laboratory of the most
important and typical organic compounds and the
investigation of their properties. Text-book, Gaiter -
mann.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Urinary Analysis and Toxicology—A course of
laboratory exercises in the methods employed in the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	69
detection and estimation of the constituents of the urine,
and of the alkaloids and principal organic poisons.
"Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
vin.
Technical Chemical Analysis—Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in Chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student in
I.	Gas Analysis.
II.	Water Analysis.
III.	Sugar Analysis.
IV.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
V.	Oils and Fats.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a) Advanced Organic Chemistry—An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures and recitations and discussion of special sub-
jects of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomer-
ism, and stereochemistry-. Special reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(#) Advanced Organic Laboratory—(i) The
first part of this course is spent principally in the making
of organic preparations by methods demanding special
care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2) The second
term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative. Analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds by
the various methods, also in the determination of mole-
cular weights of organic compounds. Special Notes and
reference works.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
70
BULLETIN OF THE
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry — In this
course, the chemical bases and their compounds are con-
sidered, with special reference to their importance in
Pharmacy and Materia Medica. Text-book, Sadtler’s
and Trimble’s Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XI.
(a) Electrochemistry—Lectures, experiments and
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and their
application in the chemical industries and separation of
metals and the preparation of chemical elements and
electrosynthesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen
and Lupke.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
{b} Electrochemical Laboratory—A laboratory-
course accompanying Course XI. (a). Experiments-
demonstrating the laws and principles of electrochemis-
try, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electrometallurgy.
Quantitative determination of metals electrolytically.
Text-books, Li'tpke and Claisen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry—The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book,
Meyer. References to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
71
XIII.
(«) Physical Chemistry—Lectures, recitations and
demonstrations experiments on the subjects of gas densi-
ty, solutions, chemical dynamics, the Phase Rule, ther-
mochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van De-
venter.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(A) Experimental Physical Chemistry—Labora-
tory work to accompany XIII. (a). Vapor density
methods, calorimetric demonstrations, molecular weight
demonstrations by the freezing and boiling point methods,
etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry—Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the labora-
tory of chemically pure substances, organic and inor-
ganic. Special reference books and journals.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative — Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric deter-
minations of inorganic substances. Special reference
work.
[Live hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN GEOLOGY*
I.
Mineralogy — Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
72
BULLETIN OF THE
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. ‘Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
II.
Assaying — Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assay-
ing of the ores .of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.	.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
III.
Geology—Lectures recitations, demonstrations. The
study of the general features of the earth. The material
composing the accessible parts of the earth. The arrange-
ments of the material in rocks. The causes of geological
changes. The history of the earth and the various forms
of life that existed in the different periods of successive
geological ages Text-book, Brigham.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.
‘The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may
be trained in Outline Drawing in pencil and pen. Then
follows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the
use of instruments is taken up. Beginning with the
instruments, attention is given to accurate draughtman-
ship upon plates, illustrating problems of Civil, Elec-
trical and Mechanical Engineering. This work is con-
tinued throughout the Courses.
£ Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for
each hour on the schedule.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
73
I.
Freehand — This course consists of sketching with
pencil and pen from flat copies and models of machine
parts, and freehand lettering. Later in the term, the
use of instruments, section-lining and lettering are
taught. Text-book, Jamison Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing—The course embraces the prin-
ciples of projections, methods of shop-drawing, tinting,
tracing, blue printing, line-shading and the preparation
of working drawings of complete machines. This Course
must be preceded by Course I. Text-book, Jamison
Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry — A series of accurate plates
are made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective
.and isometric projections. (Students in Architecture
are teqidred to do advanced work in shades and shadows
and perspective.)
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing — Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involving
the application of kinematics and the computation of
dimensions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Topography — Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
74
BULLETIN OF THE
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I,
Text-book, Reed.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
* VI.
Stereotomy—This course comprises a study of the
application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to
the determination of the forms and sizes of the stones
used in the construction of the different classes of arches
and masonry structures. This course is given by lec-
tures in the Drawing Room, explaining the construction
of templates, and use of directing instrument; also'
explanations of methods of drawing plans, elevation and
development of oblique arches, wung walls and the like.
A certain number of plates and drawings is required,
illustrating the methods of performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry constructions, foundations, dams, piers, abut-
ments, culverts and arches. Text-book, French,
[Three hours a wreek for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing — Proceeding from simple framed
girders to complete bridge-trusses of various designs,
required of Juniors in'Civil Engineering. Complete
design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings. A short
general course of bridge designing for Seniors.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
• VIII.
Mechanical Drawing—A continuation of Courses-
I. and II. embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical design
with calculation of dimensions and construction of draw-
ings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Row's Machine
Drawing and Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
COURSES IN SHOPWORK.
(fn the description of the following courses an “hour"
means two sixty minute periods in the shopf
(a} Woodwork — Exercises in planing, splicing fram-
ing, scroll-sawing and turning.	•
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Applications op Carpentry to pattern-making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks alid bearings.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Foundry Practice—Setting up and drawing-
simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(d) Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping,
tool making, tempering and case hardening.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(f) Benchwork in iron, including surface-chipping,
key-setting, draw-filing, scraping and polishing.
[Three hours a week for one term.)
(y) Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shafting and
milling machines. Construction of machine tools,
reamers, taps, twist-drills, gear wheels and complete
machines,
•w
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
I.
(a) Prose Forms—Special treatment of Exposition
and Argumentation. GenungT Working Principles of
76	BULLETIN OF THE
Rhetoric, Part II., and Heydrick’s How to Study Liter-
ature.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b} Literature American—Higginson and Boyn-
ton'' s.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
J} Lyric Poetry.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) Prose Forms—Special study of the Novel and
the Short Story.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
Literature— The Development of English Liter-
ature.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(J) The Sonnet.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN GERMAN.
I.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part I. Translation from
German into English of simple prose; translation of
English exercises into German. Reading of short stories
and selections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part II. Translation into
German of narrative prose and selections from history.
Rapid reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorethea ( Goethe} ; Lichtenstein (Hauff}.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	77
III.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part III. Rapid read-
ing of plays, poems and prose writings. Translations
of selections from history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm {Lessing} ; Best known poems,
{Heine} ; Correspondence {Schiller-Goethe}.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN FRENCH*
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises ; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs ; the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.1
Reading three of the following works: Houghton’s
French by Reading. La Tache du Petit Pierre. {Mairet}.
Un Cas de Conscience. {Gervais}. La Main Mal-
heureuse. {Guerber}. Sans Famille. {Maloi}. Super’s
Readings from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Dictations and conversations on practical
topics, and careful reading of three or four of the fol-
lowing works : Le Voyage de M. Perrichon; {Labiche}.
Roman d’urn Jeune Homme Pauvre. {Feuillet.} Fables
choisies. {La Fontaine}. Le Medecin Malgre Lui.
{Moliere}. Le Cid. {Corneille}. Fsther. {Racine.} Pages
oubliees de {Chateaubriand}. La Question d’ Argent.
{Du/mas}. Standard French Authors. {Guerlac.}
[Three hours a week for two terms.] -
78
BULLETIN OF THE
HI.
The study in this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes com-
position, conversation, history and general view of
French literature. Besides a translation and criticism
of the best writers such as; Causeries du Lundi. {Ste.
Beuve}. On Rend 1’ Argent (Coppee}. Hernani. {Hugo}.
Meditations {Lamartine}. Athalie. {Racine}. I/Avare.
{Moliere}. Mlle, de la Seigliere. {Sandeau}. Tes
Origines de la France Contemporaine. {Taine}. Bx-
pedition de Bonapart en Bgypte. {Thiers}. Ste. Blisa-
beth de Hongrie. {Montalembert.} Histoire de la
Litterature Fran^aise {Duval}.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.— The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
Preparatory School*

i
*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THE PREPARATORY SCHOOL.
The University maintains a fully equipped Preparatory
School under the same general government as the Col-
leges, but having its own special corps of instructors.
The schedules of studies are arranged to meet the need
of thorough preparation for collegiate work, and embrace
courses which while giving as wide an education as can
be obtained in the very best High Schools prepare
students directly for the group of studies they may elect
when entering the Freshman year. Five different
programs of instruction are offered to students, each con-
taining such special courses as directly meet the needs
of the fifteen college groups, while all embrace common
subjects which are indispensabty necessary in acquiring
a fairly liberal education. The period of instruction
covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Prepara-
tory School are most complete. The laboratories are
extensive and fully equipped with the latest improved
appliances. The classes pursuing any subject are divided
into sections, each containing a limited number of
students. The sections are thus purposely limited in
order that the student may receive close attention from
the instructor in every recitation and laboratory period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening of
the School in September and embrace the subjects com-
pleted in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expenses for tuition, board, laundry, etc., and for
special courses not listed in the programs will be found
on pages 24, 25. The following fees are special to the
Preparatory School;
LABORATORY FEES.
Science C.—Elementary Botany...........$	2.50
Science D.—Elementary	Zoology........ 2.50
Science E.—Elementary	Chemistry...... 5.00
Science F.—Elementary	Physics........ 5.00
82
BULLBTIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL.
Rev. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. WIEEIAM MARR, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
R^v. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Bro. AEEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHIEIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping and Commercial Eaw. .
WIEEIAM E. BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mathematics.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
SHERMAN STEELE, EiTT. B., EE. B.,
English and Civics.
CHAREES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
AEPHAEUS B. REYNOEDS, A. B.,
English.
WIEEIAM J. MAHONEY, A. B., EL. B.,
Mathematics.
JOHN QUINEAN, A. B.,
Mathematics.
UNIVERSITY' OF NOTRE DAME.
83
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. M.,
French.
JOHN B. RENO, A. M., DE. B.,
History and English.
CLARENCE J. KENNEDY, B. S.
Physiology, Zoology, Botany.
- JOHN WORDEN, B. S.
Drawing.
TERENCE B. COSGROVE, A. B.,
Mathematics and Astronomy.
gallitzen A. FARABAUGH, A. B.,
History and English.
ARTHUR S. FUNK,
Chemistry.
MAURUS J- UHRICH,
Physics.
84
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM OF STUDIES PREPARATORY TO
THE ENGINEERING DEPARTMENTS.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English - -	5	A	English - -	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History - -	3	A	History - -	3	A
Science - -	5	A	Science - -	5	D
Civil Gov’m’t	2	’ A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
SECOND YEAR.
English - -	5	B	English - -	5	B
Math ematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History - -	3	B	History - -	3	B
Science - -	5	B	Science - -	5	C .
German - -	5	A	German - -	5	A
THIRD YEAR.
English - -	5	1 c	English - -	5	C
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
Science - -	5	E	Science - -	5	E
History - -	3	C	History - -	3	C
German - -	3	B	German - -	3	B
FOURTH YEAR
English - -	5	D	English - -	5	D
Mathematics	5	G	Mathematics	5	H
Science - -	5	F	Science - -	5	F
Science - -	2	G	Science - -	2	G
Drawing - -	3	A	Drawing - -	3	B
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
85
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
(«) Meiklejohn’s Art of Writing English, with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(Jf The elements of versification. Scansion, one hour
a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Memory
work.
(fi) Required reading: Robinson Crusoe, * Evangeline,
Treasure Island, Snow-Bound, *The Sketch Book, ^The
Vision of Sir Launfal, Poe’s Tales, Poe’s Poems, Fior-
elli, *fulius Caesar, ^The Merchant of Venice,
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied ; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for one year.]
(a) Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric. Part I., with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
Qf The simpler verse-forms. Weekly exercises.
(6?) Required reading: Ivanhoe, *The Lady of the
Lake, The Vicar of Wakefield, ^The Ancient Mariner,
The Courtship of Miles Standish, * Silas Marner, *The
Princess, * Macbeth, *As Lou Like It.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for one year.]
C.
(<2) Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with daily
exercises in class. Weekly theme first term ; fortnightly
essay second term.
Iff) Verse-forms continued. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work-
f'} Required reading: *Sir P.oger de Cover ly, *Mac-
86
BULLETIN OF THE
attlay’s Essay on Addison, *The Golden Treasury of
English Lyrics, ^Macaulay’s Essay on Milton, ^Milton’s
Minor Poems, *A Midsummer's Night's Dream, ^Burke's
Speech on the Conciliation of America, ^Webster’s
Bunker Hill Oration, ^Eincoln’s Gettysburg Oration,
^'Kiny Lear.
<_>
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for one year.
&
D
(h) Genung’s The Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part I., with daily exercises in class. Eortnightly essay
first term; monthly essay second term.
W) Verse-forms concluded. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c} Required reading : The House of the Seven Gables,
*The Idyll's of the King, Selections from Paradise Lost,
Cary’s Dante, ^Gates’ Selections from Newman, ^The
Dream of Gerontius, Pope’s Homer, '^The Tempest,
Aubrey de Vere’s Poems, * Hamlet.
(The -works marked with an asterisk are to be studied ; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN HISTORY*
Ancient History — Fisher’s Outlines of Ancient
History. The Oriental Nations. The History of Greece
and of the Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome.
The Establishment of the Empire, and the Rise of
Christianity.
[Three hours a week for one year]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
B.
Medieval History—Fisher's Outlines of Medieval
History. The Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mahom-
medanisni and the Saracen Caliphs. The Holy Roman
Empire. The Invasion of the Northmen and the Ma-
gyars. The Empire and the Papacy. The Crusades,
The Great Schism and the rise of the nations of Modern
Europe.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
C.
Modern History — Fisher’s Outlines of Modern His-
tory. The Renaissance. The Ages of Discovery. The
Protestant Reformation. The Power of Spain. The
Strifes of France with Spain and Germany. The Ages
of Louis XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish
and Austrian Successions. The Empire of England.
The American Revolution. The French Revolution
and the Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the
Spirit of Nationality. The Formation of Germany and
Italy.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
COURSE IN CIVIL GOVERNMENT.
This is a study of the science of government in connec-
tion with American institutions, and is intended to give
the student some knowledge of the general principles of
government and the American Constitution. The sub-
ject begins by defining government; then is considered
the object and necessity of governments; origin of civil
society; the principle of suffrage; different forms of
government defined and compared; theories of repre-
88
BULLETIN OF THE
sentation. These topics necessarily are treated briefly,
as the principal part of the course consists of a study of
the Colonial governments, the Articles of Confederation
and their defects, the formation of the Constitution and
its adoption. Now the study comprises a critical analy-
sis of each article and section of the American Constitu-
tion, thus enabling the student to acquire a clear con-
ception of the devision of powers of the National
Government and the duties and responsibilities of each
department. Text-book, Government by State and Na-
tion, by James and Sanford.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN MATHEMATICS.
Algebra — This course for beginners in Algebra
includes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
dwelt upon in particular are Factoring, Highest Com-
mon Factor and Feast Common Multiple, which are
afterward applied in their relation to Fractions and the
reduction of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible,
concrete examples of their applications to kindred scien-
tific subjects are supplied by the teacher. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Algebra — In this course the study of Equations is
begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Fractional Equations, Systems of Simultaneous
Equations, Involution, Evolution, Radicals and Expo-
nents complete the course which is supplemented wher-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	89
ever possible with problems of practical application.
Text-book, Wentworth.
‘	[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Aegebra—This course begins with Quadratic Equa-
tions, Pure and Affected, followed by Systems of Simul-
taneous Quadratic Equations and those forms of Radical
Equations of Higher Degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and Proportion, Indeterm-
inate Equations, Surds, Imaginaries, Inequalities, the
Progressions and the Binomial Theorem finish the work
in this course. As in the preceding courses, special
stress is placed upon the application of the theory to
such examples as will show its application to the elemen-
tary scientific subjects. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Geometry-—This subject is completed as far as the
end of Plane Geometry and includes a study of the .
theorems with proofs of exercises and original proposi-
tions. The habit of independent thinking is cultivated
to some extent by the solution of special problems to
concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation of
the process studied to practical examples. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
Geometry—The study of Solid Geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extention of that
of the preceding term. Planes, Solid Angles, Polyhe-
drons, the Cylinder, Cone and Sphere are all studied in
detail and the solution of original exercises and* proposi-
90
BULLETIN OE THE
tions of application is made a feature of the course.
Text-book, I Ventworth.
[Five hours a week for one term]	’
F.
Algebra and Geometry—This course which con-
tinues through one scholastic year is designed especially
for those students who wish to take up the study of
Bngineering. As this necessitates a thorough ground
work in mathematics, the first half of the year is given
to a review of Algebra and Geometry, three hours and
two hours per week respectively. The most important
theorems and subjects are again studied and a more
comprehensive view of the subject is attained in the
generalizing of many theorems and extending the range
of others. Text-book, Benits.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Algebra and Geometry—The work of this term is
entirely given up to an elementary exposition of the
application of mathematics to scientific problems and to
analysis. In lectures and class work actual problems
representing existing and. practical conditions will be
taken up, and the derivation of approximate formulse
and an elementary study of curves derived from experi-
ment are included. Text-book, Benitz.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
H.
Trigonometry —A half a year is given to this sub-
ject which includes both Plane and Spherical Trigonome-
try. The work done is the equivalent of that in most
of the elementary text-books. Special attention is given
to Goniometry on account of its application to Calculus,.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9E
•and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly sup-
plied. Text-book, Wetnworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN SCIENCE.
A.
Physical Geography— An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy wfith the world
about him. The various types of plant and animal life
together with topographical and climatic conditions are
considered. Text-book, Tarr,
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and demonstrations
with the stereopticon. The study of the human skeleton
including the physiology and hygiene of the bones. The
action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles. The
digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demon-
strated by models and charts. The anatomy and struc-
ture of the nervous system and simple experiments on
the same. Text-book, Martin.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.	.
Elementary Botany — A course for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and
seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant life
and their classification is also given. Text-book, Bastin’s
E^ments of Botany.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
92
BULLETIN OF THE
Elementary Zoology—Includes an introduction to*
the subjects with studies of representative forms and
their classification in the different groups of the animal
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and lab-
orator y work. Text-book, Chapin and, Rettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
(«) Elementary Chemistry—An introductory
course of experimental lectures on familiar subjects
such as water, the air and its constituents, common salt,
etc., leading up to discussions of the more important
elements and their properties, and the fundamental laws
and phenomena of Chemistry. Text-book, Newell.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(Jd) Experimental Chemistry— A laboratory course
to accompany Course (a). A series of one hundred
exercises to be performed by each student, and having
as their main object the cultivation of the student’s
powers of observation and faculty of inductive reasoning.
These exercises comprise a study of the principal 'metallic
elements, including their preparation, properties and
more familiar compounds. The directions for each
experiment are made as brief as possible, the observa-
tion of facts and the drawing of correct conclusions
therefrom being left, so far as the nature of the experi-
ment will permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) a week for two
terme.]
F.
(a) Elementary Physics—Instruction in Element-
ary Physics is given by lectures and recitations in which
the general laws of Mechanics, Heat, Acoustics, Optics,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
Electricity and Magnetism are presented. The course is
intended to meet the needs of those who desire a general
knowledge of the subject, as well as to lay the founda-
tions for advanced work. Particular attention is paid to
the correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Car hart a) id Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
{b} The Laboratory Work of this course consists of
a series of experiments which verify and apply practically
the fundamental principles of Physics. The student also
receives instruction in the use and careful handling of
apparatus, accurate observation, and correct deduction of
results. Neat and concise reports of all experiments are
kept by each student and form the basis for the grades
in his work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each week
for two terms]
Astronomy-Descriptive — This course is intended
to give students as much knowledge of astronomical facts
as can be obtained with only an elementary training in
mathematics. The study consists of a description of the
earth ; its form, size, density and motion ; a study of the
moon and her motions; the sun and its relation to the
earth: an account of eclipses, refraction and aberration
of light. A description of the planets, their distances,
dimensions, and physical conditions ; a study of parallax,
diurnal and annual; an account of meteors and comets.
A study of the stars and constellations; instruction is
given to enable students to name and locate the more
prominent’. The subject of Cosmogony is considered
briefly as well as an explanation of the different systems
of Astronomy. The subject is given both by lectures
94
BULLETIN OF THE
and text-book. Text-book, You/ng's Lessons in Astronomy.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN FRENCH.
'	A.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Reading three of the following: Houghton’s French
by Reading. . La Tache du Petit Pierre. {Mairet).
Un Cas de Conscience. {Gervais). La Main Malheureuse.
(Guerber). Sans Famille. {Malot). Super’s Readings
from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Dictations and conversations are added on
practical topics, and careful translation made of two or
three of the following works: Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon : {Labiche). Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre.
(fYuillet). Fables choisies. fa Fontaine .) Le Medecin
Malgre Lui. {Moliere). Le Cid. {Corneille). Esther.
{Racine). Pages oubhees de (Chateaubriand). La Ques-
tion d} Argent. {Dumas). Standard French Authors.*
•( Guerlac.)
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes com-
position, conversation, history and general view of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,	9£
French literature. Besides a reading and criticism of
the best writers, such as: Causeries du Bundi. (Sfe.
Beuve}. On Rend 1’ Argent {Coppee}. Hernani. {Hugo}.
Meditations {Lamartine}. Athalie. {Racine}. L’Avare.
{Moliere}. Mlle, de la Seigliere. {Sandeau}. Res
Origines de la France Contemporaine. ( lain}. Ex-
pedition de Bonaparte en Egypte. ( Thiers}. Ste. Eliza-
beth de Hongrie. {Montalembert}. Histoire de M
Litterature Francaise, {Duval'}.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the same
every year.
COURSES IN GERMAN.
Grammar,. Joynes-Meissner, Part I. Translation from
German into English of simple prose; translation of
English exercises into German. Reading of short stories
and selections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part II. Translation into
German of narrative prose and selections from history.
Rapid reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorethea {Goethe} ; Lichtenstein {Hauff}.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part III. Rapid reading
of plays, poems and prose writings. Translations of
selections from history and literature ; original essays.
96
BUEEETIN OK THE
Minna von Barnhelm (Lessing} ; Best known poems,
{/Leine} ; Correspondence {Schiller-Goethe.}
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
*
COURSES IN DRAWING.
A.
This course is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
B.
Advanced work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which
afford the study of light and shade. "
[Three hours a week for one term.]
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK.
The Courses of the Preparatory Department outlined
above are equivalent to those of a High School. There
is also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are
taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—the
students have every opportunity of preparing themselves
as rapidly as possible for High School work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
97
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no
need of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without
endowment, and its work is seriously hampered because
it has no resources except the fees of students. There
are two scholarships and the interest from these founda-
tions is used in educating and boarding two students.
There were in 1901 1,452 Catholic students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and
very many of these will lose their faith, and all will be
weakened in that faith, because our people look upon
collegiate institutions as the property of private cor-
porations which are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys that can
not pay the expense of education, and who therefore are
obliged to go to non-Catholic colleges to the detriment of
their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and
board a student as long as the University exits. As one
bursar is graduated another can take his place. The
founder of the scholarship, of course, always has the
privilege of appointing the student.
We lack money for a library building, and for two
more dwelling-halls like Sorin Hall.	•
Foundations for scholarships are also a pressing need.
There is no Library fund for the purchase of new
books.
The names of benefactors will be given to all
foundations.
BEQUESTS SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS FORM : ।
।
i
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC* *
I give, devise and bequeath to the UNIVERSITY
•	i
OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC, an institution incor-
porated under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
located at Notre Dame, Indiana...................
THE UNIVERSITY OU NOTRE DAME —BIRD’S EYE VIEW.

.WINNIPEG
QUEBEC
“O/SB
'A
SANTA
harleston
M3N130MEBY
‘“AREDO
L
0
i
PROGRESO/^
SA^'b
iampeachy
VERA CRUZ
Randr AIcNallv & CoM Chicago.
PUERTO a
.SAN' JUAN-joO*
t Rico
N A
^eLENA
X
'Ne
£a^I.p
'’o
* "^\r0
□
iPSfO1
>L'OUISI -
■to® 4NG
Ka k.
3^m
°Uf
0 M I N G I
CHe^n,

°PHcsnix / m E
EE
^DAKOTA
/ PIERRE
S. DA
N E B R A
'T' ' O Nl AH*'
I LINCOLN
UENVEr
a Jh i c o L O R
TOFEKA
N S A^g"'-
(
C O !
el paso ,
TORR£ON
san Lo,s
Uo-
FT. WORTH
X
AUSTIN
ANFO^ij
montere
SALTILLO
MA DI
IOWA
> C
CES
ON
----, TH BEND
/I ILLINOIS W
ARKANSAS
LITtCe BUCK;
s
GALVESTON
/CORPUS CHRISTI
? a
^5lv ORLEAN^S^
X
TAMPA
MATAMORAS
J/
AMPICO
o
- HARPISPURg
savannah
JACKSONVILLE

