Series IL
Number IL
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
1905-1906
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
September, 1906
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
DIRECTORY FOR COMMUNICATION,
Th# Faculty—Address :
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRB DAME,
Notrl Dame, Indiana.
Thk Pupils’ — Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of St.
Edward’s Hall should be added.
There are at the University a Postoffice, a Telegraph
Office, a Long Distance Telephone, and an Express Office.
RAILROAD FACILITIES.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
St. Joseph, South Bend & Southern, and the Michigan
Central railways run directly into South Bend.
St. Ebwarb’s Iball
T. EDWARD’S HARD is the Gram-
mar School maintained by the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame. To this
School, established for the special
care and training of boys under thir-
teen years of age, the most scrupu-
lous attention has always been paid
by the President of the University.
It is also known as the School for Minims.
In building the University of Notre Dame, the founders
sought to make it a home from which the benefits of
Christian education might be spread to the youth of the
land. Realizing, however, that, to enter the Uni versit y
proper, a certain standard of excellence must first be
reached, it was decided that such a degree of excellence
as is required could be obtained better if a prepara-
tory school were maintained in connection with
the University. It was found that, when students
come here after completing their preparatory course
in High Schools or in Academies, they were qualified
thoroughly enough in some studies, whereas in others
they were rather deficient. Thus a student who
entered as a Freshman in some studies, might be two or
three years behind in others, and he would be held
back to make up the deficiency. But if the student
were given fine opportunities for making his elementary
6
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
and preparatory studies in an institution which would
carry his education from grammar school work until he
was graduated from the college, much time and trouble
would be saved, and the student on entering his college
work would have a better foundation. Since the opening
of the University, therefore, ample facilities have been
given to students desiring preparatory education as well
as to those who desire to pursue more advanced studies.
A separate school for preparatory courses has been
maintained from the beginning, and as need demanded.
St. Edward’s Hall was eventually erected as a school in
which young boys could be instructed in grammar school
work. During the first year of its existence the school
was in charge of lay teachers; but in 1863 the Very
Reverend Eather Sorin, the founder of Notre Dame,
who, during his lifetime, took great pride in this
department, decided it would be more advantageous to
have the pupils in charge of Sisters. Accordingly,
Mother Mary Angela, the foundress of the Order of the
Sisters of Holy Cross in America, was entrusted with
the organization of the school as we have it to-day.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Eatin, French, Spanish, and German. Vocal music,
elocution, military drill, physical culture, and drawing
involve no extra charge. The pupils of this School are
taught by the Sisters of Holy Cross, who are noted
for their efficiency as teachers. Some special studies,
such as elocution, physical culture, military drill, gym-
nastics, and debating, are taught by instructors of the
University.
The boys are always under supervision.- From the
day of their entrance they are made to feel that they
are not strangers, but the children of the house.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
7
Four Brothers of Holy Cross preside in the sleeping
apartments, gymnasium, and natatorium, accompany
them on their walks, and, in general, see to them during
the recreation hours. The presence of the Brothers,
however, is far from being a restraint on the amusement
of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Brothers to
insist that the young students shall always keep within
the limits of the strictest propriety, they, at the same
time, take part in all sports of the boys, organize
games, and do everything in their power to foster the
love of healthy exercise.
St. Edward’s Hall is unique in the completeness of its
equipment. It affords the pupils the rare advantages
of the University and the tender care of the Sisters.
The fact that the boys come from' the best families, and
from all over the country, and that among them are the
sons of former Minims, is sufficient evidence of the
advantages afforded by St. Edward’s Hall.
The Scholastic Year begins the first week in September
and closes about the twentieth of June. Students are
received at any time in the year, and the expenses for
board and tuition commence with the date of their
entrance.
8
st. Edward’s hall
DEPARTMENT FOR LITTLE BOYS
T the request of parents who desire their
children to make their initial studies in St.
Bdward’s Hall and to continue them at
Notre Dame until completion, a separate
department has been opened for boys under seven
years of age. They have a special study hall, separate
class rooms and sleeping apartments, and a dining room
in which food specially prepared and suitable for them
is served. The hours for sleep and study are arranged
to suit their tender age. But while their hours for
study are few, it is remarkable how rapidly these little
boys progress. When they have completed their thir-
teenth year they are usually found to be as far advanced
in their studies as the ordinary boy of fifteen.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
IO
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
st. Edward’s hart
ii
THE BUILDINGS AND ACCOMMODATIONS
T. ED WARD’S HALL is located in
the northeast corner of the Uni-
versity group of buildings, a little to
the north of the Academy of Music,
and east of the Administration Build-
ing,
building, one hundred
It is a large, four-story, brick
and fifty feet long and sixty-
five feet wide. In the chapel, the corridors, and the
parlor, are paintings by the celebrated Signor Gregori.
The various rooms in St. Edwmrd’s Hall are large,
well lighted and well ventilated. The ceiling’s are
sixteen feet high. The building is heated through-
out by steam, lighted by electricity, supplied with
hot and cold water. No fire is used in any part
of the building. Bath rooms are connected wfith
the sleeping apartments. The equipment is, in every
respect, as thorough and as up-to-date as carefulness
and a generous expenditure of money can make it.
One of the things that most readily appears to the eye
of an observer, is the order and scrupulous cleanliness
on all sides. Even in the play rooms, where it might be
expected that young boys would leave things in a care-
less condition, everything is as neat and orderly as one
would find in a well-conducted home.
On the east end of the building is an annex, two
hundred and fifty feet long, which does not show in the
picture of the Hall. It is divided into a library, game
rooms, play-hall, gymnasium, athletic club rooms,
clothes rooms, etc. In this annex complete facilities
are offered to the young boys for spending recreation
hours in a manner most suitable to their age and tastes.
12
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
Fronting the buildings is St. Edward’s Park, which,
with its rare trees, plants, and gorgeous flower beds, is
considered the most beautiful portion of the University
grounds, which have attracted attention as the most
elegant college grounds in the country. This picture
shows but a small corner of St. Edward’s Park, as it has
been impossible for us to get a photograph of the whole
grounds. The Hall, with its annex, has a frontage on
this park of four hundred feet.
st. Edward’s hall
14
ST. EDWARD'S HALL
THE MAIN STUDY HALL
The main Study Hall for the more advanced pupils
among the Minims is located on the second floor in the
centei* of the building. It is a large room, well lighted
and well ventilated, commanding a charming view from
each of its many large windows. The Hall presents
quite an artistic appearance, being tastefully decorated
with beautiful statuary, rare pictures, potted plants,
etc. Besides the pleasure the students derive from
studying in this bright, beautiful Hall, their tastes are
cultivated by coming into contact with objects so
refining.
ST. EDWARD’S HALT
15
i6
ST. EDWARD’S HALE
SORIN ASSOCIATION ROOM
Here the Sorin Association holds its meetings. It
contains a beautiful Everett piano, and all the furniture
necessary to make it a convenient and comfortable
place for society meetings. In one end is a platform
which serves the purpose of a btage. Back of this is a
large fresco by Gregory—an historical picture showing
the founding of the University of Notre Dame.
st. Edward’s hall
ST. ward’s hall
THE CHAPEL
The chapel, with its beautiful altars, rare statues,
imported stained glass windows, pipe organ, and rich
paintings from the brush of Signor Gregori, is a gem
of art. No boy can fail to be impressed by the loveliness
of this little shrine. The stories of the beautiful lives of
saintly heroic men and women commemorated in the
windows and paintings do much towards the moral
betterment of the boys. The pupils assemble for a few
minutes, morning and evening, in this chapel for their
prayers.
ST. EDWARD’S HAEL
19
20
ST. EDWARD’S HALE
THE REFECTORY
The greater number of the Minims take their meals
with the Carroll Hall students in the latter’s dining
room. But the younger boys and those whose health
requires a special regimen, have separate dining rooms
in which food suitable to their individual tastes is
served. Special attention is given to variety in the
menu and to providing the best the markets offer. All
of what is placed before the students is the product of
the University gardens and ovens. Pure wholesome
food is thus assured.
ST. EDWARDS HADE
21
THE DORMITORIES
The sleeping apartments are all commodious and well
ventilated. Bach one is presided over by a Brother.
The most noticeable thing in connection with these
dormitories is the immaculate cleanliness that prevails
throughout. The beds have springs with the ordinary
mattresses, and over this is placed the hair mattress.
Bedding is provided in abundance during cold weather.
There is nothing lacking to keep the boys comfortable.
Bath rooms with hot and cold water are connected with
the sleeping apartments.
22
ST. KDWARD’S HALL
THE CLOTHES ROOM
The clothes room is an important apartment in St.
Bdward’s Hall. In this each pupil has his wardrobe.
Sisters are constantly in charge. They attend to the
mending, etc., see to the personal neatness of the boys,
take charge of the trunks on the arrival of the pupils,
mark and take an inventory of the clothing, etc., which
they place in the lockers. The boys have free access to
the clothes room at all hours; and they receive from
the Sisters the clothes they may need from time to time.
Clothing is changed to suit the seasons, and it is the duty
of one of the prefects to see that the boys follow this
rule. Often when the temperature suddenly changes in
one day, they are made to change heavy clothes for light,
or light for heavy. Underwear is changed once a w’eek.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
23
THE LAVATORIES
The lavatories, supplied with hot and cold water, are
located on the lower floor near the clothes room so that
they can be conveniently reached at all times either from
the campus, from the clothes room, or from the athletic
dressing rooms. The Minims are obliged to make their
toilet here before every meal, and Sisters are present to
assist and to see that it is properly done. All are
required to brush their teeth carefully. Baths are taken
once a week or oftener as parents may direct.
24
st. Edward’s hall
THE INFIRMARY
So seldom is it that any of the boys of St. Edward’s
Hall are ill that no special infirmary has been found
necessary for them. When occasionally it happens that
one of them is indisposed he is put in charge of the
Sisters at the University Infirmary and is visited, if
necessary, by the house physician. In case of sickness
the boy’s parents are notified.
Since the health of the student is of primary import-
ance, the sanitary regulations enforced are of the most
practical nature. Special attention is given to the choice
and the preparation of food, to the hours for rising and
retiring, to meals, study, recreation, to the rules affect-
ing personal regimen, etc. The pure air, the regular
life, perfect open plumbing, the extensive grounds,
which afford abundant opportunities for exercise,—all
contribute to the proverbial good health of the Minims.
THE NATATORIUM
The building in which the swimming pool is located
is commodious, ninety feet long, forty-five wide and
two stories in height. The pool itself is fifty-seven
feet in length, twenty-three feet in width, six and a half
feet in depth at one end. The wrater is lowered on days
reserved for the Minims. On the same floor as the
swimming pool are eighteen needle and shower baths,
bath tubs, and closets, all with the latest equipment and
appliances. A student before using the swimming pool
must cleanse himself in one of these baths. In this
way the sanitary condition of the pool is faultless. The
building is heated by steam at 70 degrees Fahrenheit,
and lighted by electricity. A man is always in charge ;
and when the Minims use the plunge they are accompa-
nied by the Brothers.
st. Edward's hall
25
ST. JOSEPH LAKE
In warm weather the Minims are allowed to go
swimming every day in St. Joseph lake. Of all sports
this is one the boys particularly enjoy. However, they
are never permitted to go unless in company with the
Brothers. There is absolutely no danger, and no acci-
dent has ever occurred among the Minims. They cannot
go beyond certain posts, and care is taken that they do
not remain too long in the water. Any one who is
affected by a cold or who is otherwise indisposed is
not permitted to swim in the lake or in the natatorium.
26
st. Edward’s ha el
THE ANNEX
The principal object the authorities had in adding this
annex was to furnish places where the Minims could
spend their recreation hours when the weather is too
inclement to permit them to be outdoors. On this
account much attention was given to the furnishing of
THE GYMNASH'M,
a room sixty-eight feet long and twenty-eight feet wide,
thoroughly equipped with every apparatus which might
be used to advantage by the Minims. In it are to be
found running ladders, rings, punching bags, horizontal
and parallel bars, turning poles, climbing poles and
ladders, Swiss ladders, dumb-bells, clubs, weights,
springboards, mats, horses, pyramid frames, etc. This
apartment is now used merely as a practice room since
the building of the large University gymnasium, as the
boys go there for gymnastic instruction.
st. Edward’s haix
27
28
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
THH PLAY HALL,
is a large room one hundred and ten feet long and thirty
feet wide. Here all such games as basket-ball, indoor
base-ball, handball, etc., are played, and here, in fact,
is where the Minims spend many happy hours when the
weather is too severe for outdoor sports. The hall is
also used as a drill room for the Sorin Cadets.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
29
30
ST. EDWARD’S HALE
THE READING ROOM
is thirty feet long and twenty feet wide. This, like the
game room, is tastefully decorated with potted plants
and pictures. It contains a library of many hundred
volumes, especially suited to the age of the pupils. The
books include the best authors in travel, history, biog-
raphy, poetry, and fiction; as well as bound encyclo-
pedias, magazines, papers received from home, etc. The
Reading Room is accessible at all recreation hours.
ST. EDWARD’S HAIJ<
3
I
THE GAME ROOM,
immediately adjoining tlie play hall, is eighty feet long
and twenty feet wide. The furniture in this room con-
sists of a piano, couches, rocking chairs, tables, and
trophies won by past athletic teams. It is tastefully
decorated and contains everything in the line of games.
As the boys have free access to these four rooms during
recreation they have ample opportunities of satisfying
their individual tastes.
ST. EDWARD’S HALE
THE ARMORY
contains the rifles and equipments of the Sorin Cadets.
In this room each student has two lockers. One holds
such personal effects as baseball suit, bat, ball, ice and
roller skates; the other, eatables, etc. The bicycles are
also Vept in this room.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
33
34
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
35
THE CAMPUS
HE CAMPUS, which is set aside
for the exclusive use of the Minims,
is a level eight-acre field, and is directly
north of their play hall. It is located on
the brow of St. Joseph’s lake, thus com-
man ding one of the best views of the
~ many splendid scenes at Notre Dame
This field is a place of great activity during those
seasons in which outdoor games may be played. There
are several baseball diamonds on which, during the warm
weather in spring and summer, organized teams battle
for championship honors in the national game and con-
test for the medals awarded to the champion nine.
Then there are four gridirons where enthusiastic foot-
ball players develop their muscles in the great college
game. Bncircling the field is a track where the track
athletes and bicycle riders do their work. The campus
is also well supplied with swings, May-poles, turning
poles, a tennis court, a large toboggan slide for the
winter, and many other apparatus with which the
Minims may spend their recreation hours in an enjoy-
able manner. That they take advantage of the oppor-
tunities afforded can readily be seen if one makes a visit
to their campus. Homesickness is almost unknown
among the boys. The new students become readily
acquainted with their class-mates and their surround-
ings, and from the first join in the games and sports.
They realize that they are in a new world where they
have more freedom and enjoyment than they could
possibly have at home- Baseball suits, bats, balls, and
masks are furnished gratis.
o
6
ST. EDWARD’S HARE
ST. EDWARD’S HALD
37
THE COURSES OF INSTRUCTION.
HE courses of instruction in St. Edward’s
Hall were planned with a view to giving
pupils a broad foundation for commercial
studies or for a University education.
They include Christian doctrine and Bible
history (for Catholic students), reading, spell-
ing, geography, arithmetic, grammar, penman-
ship, United States history, composition,
algebra, elocution, drawing, music, phonography, type-
writing, physical culture, military drill, Latin, Greek,
German, French and Spanish. When a pupil is matricu-
lated the parents decide with the Director of Studies the
program of studies the boy is to follow, and the courses
are taken up accordingly.
The students of the first-class complete the following
studies: arithmetic, English, grammar, advanced geog-
raphy, spelling, history of the United States, reading,
and penmanship. They also pursue for two terms Latin
or some modern language and algebra. So thoroughly
do they master these studies that it has been invariably
found in the examinations held at the end of the pre-
paratory studies to determine the eligibility of students
for entrance into the college courses that the students
' who came from St. Edward’s Hall were easily superior
to the young men who had prepared themselves in other
schools. Thoroughly trained for every course which
they are to follow in their college life, these ex-Minims
take the lead at the entrance examinations, hold it all
through their college career, and are frequently the
young men on whom class honors fall.

ST. EDWARD’S HALL
The following program of studies pursued in St.
Edward’s Hall is arranged to conduct pupils through the
essential subjects of grammar grades from the very
beginning of their education:
FIRST YEAR
READING. Primer.
SPELLING. Oral.
.WRITING. Daily practice.
ARITHMETIC. Oral.
OBJECT LESSONS.
VOCAL MUSIC.
SECOND YEAR
READING. First and Second Reader, Baldwin.
Supplementary reading: Simple stories from history,
myth’ and fable. Poems read to pupils and selections
memorized.
SPELLING. Oral and written. Exercises to corre-
spond with words in the Reader. Sentences copied from
dictation.
ARITHMETIC. Simple addition, subtraction and
m ultiplication.
PENMANSHIP. Daily practice.
VOCAL MUSIC.
THIRD YEAR
READING. Second Reader, Third Reader, Baldwin.
Supplementary reading: Stories from history, legend and
fable. Simple poems memorized.
SPELLING. Oral and written. Exercises to corre-
spond with words in the Reader. Dictation. Sentences,
forms of speech.
ARITHMETIC. Multiplication tables. Multiplica-
tion and simple division of simple numbers.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
39
PENMANSHIP. Daily practice.
VOCAL MUSIC.
ELOCUTION. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
FOURTH YEAR
READING. Eourth Reader, Baldwin. Supplemen-
tary reading: Stories of history. Memorizing simple
poems and short prose passages.
SPELLING. Oral and written. Exercises to corre-
spond with words in the Reader. Written definitions of
words. Practical Speller and Definer, to page 63, Benson
and Glenn.
ARITHMETIC. Written and mental. Addition, sub-
traction, multiplication and division of concrete numbers.
Union Arithmetic, B/oo'ks.
GRAMMAR. Elementary. The parts of speech.
General study.
GEOGRAPHY. Elementary. The World. North
and South America, Redway and Hinman.
HISTORY. Elementary. The United States, Mont-
gomery.
PENMANSHIP. Daily practice.
VOCAL MUSIC.
ELOCUTION. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
FIFTH YEAR
READING. Eifth Reader, Baldwin. Supplementary
reading: Stories from the classics. Memorizing simple
poems and prose passages.
SPELLING. Oral and written. Words and defini-
tions. Practical Speller and Definer, page 63 to 124,
Benson and Glenn.
40
ST. EDWARD’S HALT
ARITHMETIC. Written and mental. Common frac-
tions, decimals, bills. Union Arithmetic, Brooks.
GEOGRAPHY. The United States. Special Study,
Redway and Hinman.
HISTORY. The United States. The Indians, the
Explorers, the Colonists, Lawler.
GRAMMAR. A special study of the accidents of the
noun and the adjective, Harvey.
COMPOSITION. Writing short stories and descrip-
tions.
PENMANSHIP. Daily practice.
ELOCUTION. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
VOCAL MUSIC.
SIXTH YEAR
READING. The Sixth Reader, Baldwin. Reading
and memorizing simple poems from Longfellow, Whittier,
Holmes and easy passages in prose from Ruskin and
Irving.
SPELLING. Oral and written. Words and defini-
tions. Practical Speller and Definer, page 124 to 185,
Benson and Glenn. The use of the Dictionary.
GRAMMAR. The accidents of the verb and the
adverb, to syntax, Harvey. Letter writing, composition.
ARITHMETIC. Written and mental. Fractions and
decimals reviewed. Denominate numbers, practical
measurements, percentage. Normal Union Arithmetic,
Brooks.
GEOGRAPHY. Special study of North America,
South America, Europe, Asia, Africa, Redway and
Hinman.
HISTORY. The United States. The entire subject
completed, Lawler.
st. Edward’s ha el
4i
PENMANSHIP. Daily practice.
ELOCUTION. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
VOCAL MUSIC.
SEVENTH YEAR
READING. Seven th Reader, Baldwin. Reading and
memorizing Goldsmith's “Deserted Village”, Grey's
“Elegy”, passages from Shakespeare's “Merchant of
Venice,” “As You Like It,” “Julius Caesar”, Lincoln's
1 ‘ Speech at Gettysburg ’ ’, Webster's speeches, passages
from Newman and Stevenson.
SPELLING. Oral and written. Words -and defini-
tions. Practical Speller and Definer, page 185 to end,
Benson and Glenn.
GRAMMAR. Syntax, Harvey. Letter writing and
composition.
ARITHMETIC. Percentage and its applications,
commercial arithmetic. Normal Union Arithmetic,
Brooks.
HISTORY. United States. The entire subject
reviewed and special epochs carefully studied, Lawler.
PENMANSHIP. Daily practice.
ELOCUTION. Declamations and recitations once a
week.
VOCAL MUSIC.
ALGEBRA. To Quadratic Equations, Wentworth
In the Seventh Year of the above program the student
may choose for study one of the following languages:
Latin, German, French or Spanish, provided he shall
have completed any of the subjects of the seventh year
except Algebra. As soon as any Grammar grade study is
completed satisfactorily, a High School subject is begun.
42
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
st. Edward’s hall
43
THE COURSES IN MUSIC
HE department of Music is in the second
story of the building. It consists of
a large room for vocal classes, and
several other rooms, each Containing
musical instruments for lessons and
daily practice. Instructions on the
piano, violin, mandolin, guitar, flute,
cornet and banjo are given by able
teachers. Bach pupil devotes an hour
daily to music, including a private les-
son of fifteen minutes. To be sure that the pupils do not
waste their time, as they are apt to do when left to them-
selves, a Sister is on duty at all times to see that they
practice faithfully. General vocal lessons are given.
FIRST YEAR
VIOI/IN. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Fiorillo.
Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Silt.
PIANOFORTB. Koehler1 s and Down's Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reniecke, Mozart.
Jugendalbum and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
SECOND YEAR
VIOLIN. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
PIANOFORTE. Studies by Czerny. Heller, Hasert,
Lecouppy, Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach's Preludes, Fugues and Inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn, Schu-
mann, Schubert.
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS
Excellent opportunities are affored to those who desire
to acquire a knowledge of other instruments, Mandolin,
Banjo, Guitar, Viola, Flute, Piccolo and Cornet. The
more advanced students have an opportunity of joining
the University band and University orchestra.
44
ST. RD WARD’S HALT
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
45
EDUCATION*
HE education imparted in St. Edward’s
Hall is practical and thorough. It com-
bines the advantages of old methods,
which long experience has proved to be
beneficial, with the best that modern
notions of education suggest. It is
intended to train the heart as well as the mind, to form
young gentlemen, who who will be an honor to their
parents and to society. Every attention is given to the
moral culture of the students; and their general deport-
ment is equally the subject of unremitting care. Know-
ing' that the charm of refined manners is the aggregate of
habits acquired in youth, the teachers do not fail to
point out errors in conduct, to correct faults committed
against gentlemanly deportment. Instruction in polite-
ness and etiquette are given once a week.
St. Edward’s Hall-welcomes to its advantages boys of
every religious denomination ; anything like an attempt
to force other religious convictions on non-Catholics is
carefully avoided. Bor the sake of uniformity and the
preservation of discipline, all the pupils are required, at
stated times, to attend divine services with the student-
body in the College Church. All the boys are taught to
appreciate moral worth. Surrounded as the students
are by all that tends to ennoble and elevate, it would
seem hardly possible that a boy could spend even a year
at Notre Dame without acquiring a greater love and
respect for all that pertains to a nobler life.
46
ST. EDWARD’S HALE
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES
the close of the scholastic year in June, the
the Minims hold their closing exercises in
St. Bdward’s Hall, on the morning preced-
ing the day of the Commencement of the
University. All parents are invited to the
closing exercises. These exercises are attended by the
officials of the University and many of the visitors who
enjoy the entertainment offered by the young students,
and who wish to be present at the distribution of the
prize medals and deportment certificates. Pupils whose
records in class - work and conduct have been exception-
ally satisfactory, or who have excelled in any of the
branches to be mentioned below, are called individually
upon the stage and decorated with the mark of honor
in the form of a gold or silver medal. The complete
list of these medalists and winners of certificates is
published in the Commencement number of the Scholastic,
the students’ organ. On the following page is a state-
ment of the conditions under which the principal prizes
are awarded.
ST. EDWARD’S HATT
47
PRIZE MEDALS
THE ABERCROMBIE MEDAR
The Abercrombie Gold Medal is awarded to the pupil
of St. Edward’s Hall whose conduct during the year
has been marked in the highest degree by qualities
of studiousness, truthfulness, politeness and manliness.
THE SORIN MEDAT
The Sorin Association Gold Medal is awarded for
excellence in Elocution.
CTASS MEDATS
Gold Medals are awarded for excellence in Elocution,
Tetter Writing, Composition, Penmanship, Christian
Doctrine, Piano and Vocal Music.
A Silver Medal is awarded for the greatest improve-
ment in Tetter Writing.
DEPORTMENT PRIZES
Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils
who have spent two full years in St. Edward’s Hall and
whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable.
Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils
who have spent two full years in St. Edward’s Hall and
whose deportment has given general satisfaction.
Deportment Certificates are awarded to pupils who
have spent one year in St. Edward’s Hall and whose
deportment during the whole time has been unex-
ceptionable.
48
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
49
DISCIPLINE.
ONTINUBD and varied experience in the
care and training of young boys has
brought about the system of discipline
now enforced in St. Edward’s Hall.
Certain restrictions must necessarily be
laid upon pupils of their age, and rules
of conduct formulated which they must
strictly obey. Yet every liberty that is
compatible with careful training, and every privilege con-
formable to their proper development, is granted to the
Minims. Those in charge realize that childhood is the
most impressionable time of life, and that the effects of
early training are lasting. Therefore it is sought to influ-
ence the Minims by such methods only as will develop in
their youthful minds a love for order and rightful conduct,
a proper respect for parents and superiors, and a taste for
such habits as will bring them honor in after life. Every
care is taken to see that they are kept from all that
would in the least taint their morals and that they are
taught to strive after such virtues and manly habits as
will make them estimable young men. Here, as in a well
regulated home, recourse is had to kindness rather than
to severity. The Sisters feel that they fill the place of
the absent mother. The discipline is thus more like the
regulation of an orderly home than like the strict man-
dates of a boarding school. To keep the pupils impressed
with the love and respect they owe their' parents, they
are required to write to them at least once a week.
As an incentive to keeping the rules, an honor system
has been established. In a conspicuous place in the
Hall a Tablet ot Honor is placed, on which are inscribed
50	st. Edward’s hade
the names of those whose conduct has been satisfactory
to all the teachers and prefects. There is great rivalry
among the boys to have their names appear on the Tab-
let. A gold medal is also awarded at the end of two
full years to those whose deportment has been excep-
tionally good. As this fact is made known to the
Minim immediately after his entrance, he generally
endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to receiving
an Honor. It has been found that such incentives as
these are far more effectual towards the development of
character than corporal punishment. This latter method
finds little place in St. Edward’s Hall, for seldom, if
ever, is it employed.
The Minims are kept within the line of duty by a
sense of honor and justice rather than by fear of punish-
ment. Among the many means of promoting emulation
are Weekly Notes, Bi-Monthly Bulletins, Annual Dis-
tribution of Premiums and Gold Medals for excellence in
studies.
The President of the University frequently visits St.
Edward’s Hall; and once every two months the pupils
are examined by him or by one of his officials to ascer-
tain the progress they are making in their studies.
The order of the day in St. Edward’s Hall is as fol-
lows ; Rising at half-past six, toilet; breakfast at seven,
after which a short time is allowed for recreation and
exercise; at half-past seven, studies and classes are
begun and continued without intermission until half
past nine; from half past nine until ten, recreation is
given and a luncheon is served. At ten, classes are
again taken up and followed until eleven forty-five,
when fifteen minutes are given to toilet; twelve, dinner,
followed by recreation. Prom half past one until three,
study and class; three, recreation and luncheon; from
from half past four until half past six, study and classes;
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
51
half past six, supper, followed by recreation; eight
o’clock, retiring.
From this it may be seen that the day has been
arranged as judiciously as possible towards furthering
mental and physical development at the same time. The
pupils are never at work more than two hours at a time.
This gives them ample opportunity to take such recre-
ation as boys of their age require, and perhaps to this is
due the fact that they are so healthy and happy. The
recreation and exercise in the fresh air after each two
hours of study unbend the mind and prepare the boys
to return to work with a freshness and vigor that makes
very much toward their progress.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
ST. ED WARD’S HALE
53
SOCIETIES.
\
/ a	—jHERE are two societies in St. Edward’s
/	Hall, that of the Guardian Angels of the
IzMz / Sanctuary, which has for its object to
\ /If supply servers for the Church services,
’ aud the Sorin Association which has
been established with a view to give the
pupils a start in elocution and debating as early as
possible. The Sorin Association is presided over by
one of the professors, who devotes special attention
to training the young speakers. Meetings are held
once a week after school hours. These meetings are a
source of pleasure as well as of profit to the young
enthusiasts. Not infrequently are they honored at these
meetings by the presence of some of the University
officials, who take pleasure in attending, to encourage
the boys and watch the development they are making.
The members prepare original compositions, deliver
declamations, are trained to debate, etc. As a further
encouragement for the young members a gold medal is
annually awarded at Commencement time to the boy
who has done the best work, and who shows his merit
in open contest. This society has the honor of furnish-
ing the representative who delivers the greetings from
St. Edward’s Hall to the President of the University on
President’s day.
54
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
ST. EDWARD’S HARR
55
SORIN CADETS.
rifle
H B Sorin Cadets are divided into
two companies under the command
of an ex-drill instructor of the
United States Army. The conipa-
nies are armed with a light carbine
weighing less than four pounds.
The drill,
These rifles and the other equipment are
kept in a room fitted up as an armory,
which is of a light nature, is practiced
twice a week in the large play hall; but in favorable
weather it is conducted out doors. Great attention
is paid at all times to the setting-up of the boys. An
upright and manly bearing is the result of the drills,
which are beneficial to both mind and body. Boys most
efficient in drill, who show an aptitude to command,
are selected and promoted to fill the different positions
of non-commissioned officers. At the close of the schol-
astic year a gold medal is awarded to the boy who has
the highest number of points to his credit for proficiency
and deportment in military drill.
ST. EDWARD’S HALT
st. Edward’s halt
57
ATHLETICS.
O U N G boys need a great amount of vig-
orous and wholesome exercise when they are
required to do much mental work. Study
is wearing enough on any person, but for
the youth, who does not directly see the
benefit of it, application to books is doubly
tiresome. He measures greatness more by the standard of
sports than by education and culture. To satisfy his long-
ings for games, his desire to match his skill and strength
with his fellows, he must be given ample opportunity to
engage in contests. Thus will his mind be relieved of
ST. WARD’S HALT
the strain that study would naturally put upon it. It is
evident that a suitable amount of play will sharpen the
intellect and render its possessor much more competent
to work in a beneficial manner. Again play develops a
strong constitution, physical strength, agility of body
and confidence in one’s own ability. This is particularly
true of young boys, who are so susceptible of training.
Bearing these facts in mind, the authorities of St.
Edward’s Hall have made every possible provision to
give the boys sufficient time for athletics. It must not
be inferred, however, that thej” are permitted all play
and no work. Only during recreation times can there
be any attention given to the subject of games and
athletics, and these are never allowed to interfere in any
way with class work. Every game is encouraged at its
proper time, but when the hour for study conies all
games must be stopped.
ST. EDWARD’S HARD
59
Baseball and football are the chief sports among the
Minims. In spring there are as many as eight different
nines competing for the championship of the hall. The
rivalry between these various teams is very great.
Toward the close of the season the two teams with the
best record play a series of five games and to the winners
of this series go the honors. Bach member of the team
is presented with a gold medal. In football the rivalry
is equally as great, except that the strongest team
usually plays most of its games with the boys from
Carroll Hall, and with junior teams from South Bend.
THE UNIVERSITY GYMNASIUM
6o
ST. WARD’S HALT
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (First year only).....................$ 10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bedding, etc.,
per session of nearly ten months........................ 250.00
Payable in Advance, as follows :
First Payment ; On Entrance in September :
Matriculation Fee......................................$	10.00
Board and Tuition..................................... 150.00
Deposit on Book and	Stationery Account.................. 5.00
Gymnasium............................................... 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course.............................. 1.00
Music (optional). For rates see below.
Second Payment; On January 15th :
Balance on Board and Tuition.......................$100.00
Extras Optional. (Payable in Advance.)
The charge per session of ten months for piano lessons and the
use of instrument, in this School is $35; for violin, guitar or
mandolin, $25.
Pupils who remain during the summer vacation (July and
August) are charged $40.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if not paid
within ten days after they have been rendered.
CLOTHING.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of underwear,
three night shirts, twelve pocket handkerchiefs, six pairs of
stockings, six towels, two hats or caps, two pairs of shoes, a pair
of rubbers, three suits of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking
brush, soap, and a hand mirror. This directien concerning clothing
is a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above supplies can
be procured through the Students’ office at the University.
ST. EDWARD’S HALT
6l
THE ADVANTAGES OF ST EDWARD'S HALL
H E advantages of having a sepa-
rate department at the University
for boys under thirteen years of
age are so many and so evident
that it would seem almost un-
necessary to mention them. In
the first place, if parents are
desirous of having their sons sent away to school
when the}^ are of such tender age, they must fully
realize that special care and attention should be
given to these young boys. However, it would be a
difficult matter to make special provisions for them,
unless they be kept alone and be under the supervision
of prefects and instructors who can devote their whole
time to caring particularly for them. It would be prac-
tical^ impossible to make any deviation from the
ordinary curriculum in order to benefit them if they
were permitted to be among the other boys; for dis-
criminations in any department, as among men in the
world, always work unsatisfactorily.
Again, the intimate association of such young boys
with older ones does not always lead to the best results.
Whatever they notice in their elders they will strive to
imitate; and it too often happens that they notice only
the rougher side of the actions of their companions. Boys
under the age of thirteen years, it must be remembered,
cannot be expected to use very great discretion or judg-
ment in shaping their actions, and the evil influence of
one thoughtless person may leave a lasting impression
62
ST. EDWARD’S HAUL
on their youthful minds. Another advantage in having
the Minims by themselves is this: their studies, their
manner of spending recreation, and their tastes in gen-
eral are very different from those of the more advanced
boys. They can do better in class-work if they follow
such lines as are specially planned for them, and they
will enjoy their games much better if they are where
they can play them without interference from older boys.
Life in St. Bd ward’s Hall is thus made more home-like
for them since the rules and regulations are especially
suited to their best interests. There are a hundred and
one little things that go to make up their comfort and
happiness, that could not be taken into account if they
were not in a separate department. They enjoy not
only the special privileges of their own hall but also those
of the older students—public lectures, concerts, games,
etc. The Minims are made to feel that they are
privileged students at Notre Dame. As has been already
stated, the Sisters of Holy Cross are in charge of
St. Edward’s Hall. They give the most scrupulous
attention to the needs and comforts of the pupils in all
that pertains to studies, health and personal neatness.
None better than they know how to take the place of
the mother in the training, the progress and the happi-
ness of those under their care.
When placing their sons at Notre Dame, parents find
great satisfaction in seeing that, if they have made a
sacrifice in depriving themselves of the company of their
children, they are leaving them in a beautiful home sur-
rounded by every care and comfort, and, at the same
time, affording them an opportunity of laying a deep and
solid foundation for an education that will make towards
usefulness and happiness through life.