SERIES II.
NUMBER I
- Published Quarterly by
The University
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
General Catalogue
Entered as Second-Class Matter in the Postoffice at
Notre Dame, Indiana, July 17,1905
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notre Dante, Indiana
Series IL
Number I.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL CATALOGUE.
,	J905-J906
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
UNIVERSITY PRESS
JVLY, 1906
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notrk Dam$, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty,, except that the name of the
Halt, in which the student lives should be added.
There are at the University a Postoffice, a Telegraph
Office, a Long Distance Telephone, and an Express
Office.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, and
the Michigan Central railways run directly into South
Bend.
CALENDAR FOR 1906-1907.
1906
SEPTEMBER 11,' 12-13.,	> Entrance Examinations.
14. 23. OCTOBER	1.	Colleges open. Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls. Examinations of Conditioned Students.
13. 26-27. 29. NOVEMBER 1.	Founder’s Day. No classes. Bi-Monthly Examinations. Annual Retreat begins in the evening. Feast of All Saints. No classes.
29. DECEMBER 4.	Thanksgiving Day. No classes. President’s Day. No classes.
5. 8. 18-19. 1907	20.	The William P. Breen Medal Orations. Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No classes. Bi-Monthly Examinations. Christmas Vacation begins.
JANUARY	4:	Colleges open.
FEBRUARY 1.	State Oratorical Contest.
22. 23-25. MARCH	17.	Washington’s Birthday. No classes. Bi-Monthly Examinations. St. Patrick’s Day.
19. 31. APRIL	1.	St. Joseph’s Day. No classes. Easter. No Easter Vacation. Easter Monday. No classes.
26-27. MAY	20.	Bi-Monthly Examinations. Latest Date for handing in Prize Essays
30. JUNE	1.	and Graduation Theses in all the Col- leges. Decoration Day. No. classes. The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations.
3-8 9. 10-12. 12. 13.	The Patrick T. Barry Medal Recitations. Examination of Candidates for Graduation. Baccalaureate Sermon. General Examinations. Commencement. Bachelors Orations. Com- mencement Address, 7:30 p. m. Graduation Exercises, 8:00 a. m.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
'Very Rev. JOHN A. ZAHM, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCEEEOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
•
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
TREASURER.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE- PRESIDENT.
Rev. WILLIAM A. MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
prefect of discipline.
Rev. WILLIAM J. MARR, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF RELIGION.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
secretary.
I
DIRECTORS OF HALLS.
HOLY CROSS HALL.
Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
REV. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL.
Rev. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.	Mr. W. O’BRIEN, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL.
REV. THOS. H. CORBETT, C. S. C.
Mr. J. MCMANUS, C. S. C.	Mr. S. GAVIN, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL.
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.	Bro. HUGH; C. S. C.
Bro. AIDAN, C. S. C.	Bro. JOSEPH, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL.
Bro JUST, C. S. C.	Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
Bro. GEORGE, C. S. C.	Bro. LOUIS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL.
REV. ERANCIS MOLLOY, C. S. C.
Bro. ELORIAN, C. S. C.	Bro. COLEMAN, C. S. Q
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.	Bro. ERNEST, C. S. C.
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES*
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.}
Senior English,
REV. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. MARTIN J. REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
REV. ALEXANDER M. KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology.
Rev. STANISLAUS BITTB, C. S. C.,
Latin.
REV. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Geology.
REV. MICHAEL M. OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
REV. MATTHEW A. SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
English and History.
Rev. JAMES J. TRAHEY, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.
Chemistry and Botany.
8
BULLETIN OK THE
*REV. FRANCIS MOLLOY, C. S. C.,
Spanish.
Bro. BASIE, C. S. C.,
Director of the Department of Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.s
Instrumental Music.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M., EE. B.,
History and Librarian.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M„ EL D.,
Law.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S , C. E.,
Astronomy and Civil Engineering.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, EL. D.,
Law.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S.
Drawing.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E-, E, E.,
Electrical Engineering and Physics.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
ANDREW ANDERSON,
Law.
* Died March 14, ico6.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9
ARTHUR L- HUBBARD, A. M., DU. B.
Daw.
ROBERT D. GREEN, G. Ph ,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
SHERMAN STEELE? Litt. B., LL. B.,
Law.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
JOHN B. RENO, A. M., LL. B.
Parliamentary Law and Debating.
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. M.»
French.
BENJAMIN R. ENRIQUEZ, C. E.,
Assistant in Civil Engineering.
FRANK O’HARA, Ph. D.,
History and Political Economy.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B.,
Architecture.
CLARENCE J. KENNEDY, B. S.
Anatomy and Physiology.
EDWARD H. SCHWAB, LL. B.,
Law.
MARCUS KAVANAGH, LL. D.,
Lecturer in Law.
EDWARD C. HIGGINS, LL. M.,
Lecturer in Law.
IO
BULLETIN OF THE
P. J. O’KEEFE, EL. B„
Lecturer in Law.
HUGH O’NEIL, A. M., LL. B.
Lecturer in Law.
FREDERIC KARR,
Elocution and Oratory.
I. LUDWIG FRANK,
Director of the Band.
WILLIAM B. KELLY,
Shopwork.
HENRY F. MAY,
Director of Gymnasium.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant'’
degrees. The beginning of this act is :
Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Mari vault, Francis Gouesse,
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the 1 University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant or cause to be conferred and granted,
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other universities
in the United States. ’ ’
12
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS*
THE MAIN BUILDING*
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted bjr a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-rooms are
in this building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
others in the University, is lighted by electricity and
gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of the first
floor are decorated with mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 feet in height from the floor
to the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes. Students have
access to it from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theater. The
Theater is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It
will seat 1,200 persons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 104 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens.
THE CIVIL ENGINEERING DEPARTMENT
occupies a portion of the basement of Science Hall
as a laboratory. The lecture rooms are in the main build-
ing. The equipment of this department is sufficient for all
the practice and exercises in the field necessary to illus-
trate and teach the practical methods of engineering.
The instrumental outfit consists of one surveyor’s transit,
three engineer’s transits with levels and vertical circles
attached to telescopes, also solar attachment, two en-
gineer’ s wye levels and a plane table with all the attach-
ments, clinometers, chains, tapes, levelling rods, etc.,
and one Olsen’s cement testing machine.
THE CHEMICAL DEPARTMENT
occupies the entire north side of the first floor of
Science Hall. Adjoining the general museum, is
a large and well-lighted room reserved for a library
and chemical museum. Here are a library of chem-
ical journals and books, and a steadily increasing
collection of minerals, chemicals, and chemico-technical
products of all kinds, designed to serve as illustrations
of substances and processes, discussed in the various
lecture courses. Adjoining this room are successively,
an apparatus room, filled with the most modern apparatus
for lecture and experimental work; a chemical store-
room, where laboratory supplies may be procured by the
students; a lecture room, and a laboratory for qualita-
tive and quantitative analysis. The laboratory is fur-
14
BULLETIN OF THE
nished with, hoods, of good draught; the desks are
provided with water, gas, and the necessary reagents,
and fully equipped with apparatus for work in gas
analysis, organic analysis, and with apparatus for ‘ ‘ Boil-
ing Point and Breezing Point Determinations.” The
Balance Room, adjoining, contains assay and analytical
balances sensitive to one ten-thousand th of a gramme.
The lecture room is provided, among other things, with
apparatus for stereopticon illustration, with electric bat-
teries, and with a complete set of charts illustrative of
the process employed in modern chemical industries.
The assay and furnace room, in the basement, is
equipped with a set of gas furnaces of the most modern
type, for the operations of roasting, fusing, scorifying
and cupelling employed in the dry assay of ores.
The Department of
PHYSICS AND ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING -
is located in the south wing. There is a large lecture
room, with a seating capacity of sixty-five students,
adjoining the rooms in which the apparatus is stored in
dust-proof cases. Several smaller rooms in the basement
contain heavy piers of masonry, for work with sensitive
galvanometers.
The following is a partial list of the more important
pieces of apparatus in the Physical Laboratories :
IN MECHANICS, ETC.:
Large physical balance,
Standard kilogram,
Standard metre,
Geneva cathetometer, capable
of measuring to one twenty-
five thousandth of an inch,
Dividing engine,
Atwood’s machine,
Compound pendulum,
Break circuit recording chrono-
graph,
Powerful hydraulic press with
attachments,
Rotary air pumps and receivers,
A large clock with electrical
contact pieces,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
Self-winding clocks,	Two aneroid barometers.
Several mercury barometers,
IN ACOUSTICS:
A Mercadier radiophone,
Set of Koenig resonators,
Set of electrically - operated
tuning forks by Koenig,
A Scott-Koenig Phon autograph,
Edison phonograph of earliest
type,
Sets of vibrating rods, tubes
and bells,
Large double siren,
A set of very small tuning forks
producing the highest audible
sounds,
A set of resonators mounted to
gether with capsules for sen-
sitive flames, arranged for the
analysis of complex sounds,
Koenig’s movable tuning forks,
to draw compound curves on
smoked glass,
Three sets of organ pipes,
Four sets of fine tuning forks,
Apparatus for manometric
observation of sound pheno-
mena,
A large tuning fork producing
the lowest audible sound,
Apparatus for producing longi-
tudinal vibrations in rods,
An electrical metronome,
Mounted tuning forks carry-
ing small mirrors arranged
to perform Lissaj on’s experi-
ment, producing complex
curves.
IN light:
Complete set of apparatus,
made by Soleil, Paris, for the
• measurement of the wave
length of light by various
interference methods,
Sets of polarization apparatus,
Sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors,
Two heliostats,
Four spectroscopes,
A polarizing saccharimeter,
Three projecting lanterns for
gas or electric light, and
3,000 slides,
Set of large Nicol’s prisms
mounted,
Large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum,
Two Rowland gratings, 14,000
lines to the inch,
Set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland,
Several cameras with lenses
and attachments,
A well equipped dark-room for
photographic work,
Photometric room and equip-
ment.
i6
BULLETIN OF THE
IN HEAT:
Melloni’s apparatus for measur-
ing radiation, absorption and
reflection of heat, complete
with a set of prepared sub-
stances,
Standard thermometers,
Air thermometers,
IN ELECTRICITY
An absolute electrometer,
Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static pheno-
mena,
Four induction coils,
Six bridges of different types,
Ammeters and voltmeters,
One 2,000 tb. electro magnet,
Standard resistance coils,
Several sets of storage cells,
Steam engine indicator,
Calorimeters,
Apparatus for determing the
coefficient of linear expan-
sion, using the optical lever
method.
AND MAGNETISM :
Historical set of motors show-
ing evolution of the modern
machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type,
Ten galvanometers of various
types,
Complete X-ray outfit,
Sets of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy.
In addition to the electrical apparatus in the Depart-
ment of Physics, the equipment for practical work in
Electrical Engineering consists of engines, dynamos,
instruments, etc., of commercial size, as follows :
A three phase A. C. induction
motor, arranged to operate on
single phase circuits, with a
condenser compensator,
A high frequency 1000 V., 33 K.
W., composite w’ound, Wood
a Iternator of the latest type
with excitater and a full set ol
switchboard instruments,
Several transformers of differ-
ent capacity,
A high tension transformer for
o
testing insolation,
An Edison bipolar 15 K. W.
125 V., generator,
A Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and
fifteen lamps,
A Wood arc machine, capacity
25 lights,
An Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125
V., dynamo, with special
winding,
A Van Depoele compound
wound dynamo,
A special A. C. and D. C. 5 H. P.
dynamo or rotary converter,
A series wound dynamo with
wrought iron field,
A number of small motors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
*7
A forty horse power high speed
automatic engine,
A set of inclined coil
alternating current portable
instruments; voltmeter,
ammeter and wattmeter,
A set of tools for metal work-
ing,
Telegraphing relays, sounders,
switchboards, etc.,
Telephone apparatus, including
subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop
manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops,
jacks, switches, lightning
arresters, etc.,
Automatic telephone switch-
board containing first and
second selector and con-
nector switches, interrupter
heat coils, etc., and three
subscribers sets. With this
apparatus all the operations
involved in the operation of a
10000 system may be per-
formed,
A complete central energy
switchboad, several lines and
subscribers sets and a selective
signaling four party line out-
fit,
A collection of historical sets,
including Reis’ transmitter
and receiver,
Standard portable bridge,
Common portable bridge,
Testing battery,
A power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and
hand tools for metals,
A calibrating lamp rack,
D’Arsonval and common gal-
vanometers,
Ballistic galvanometer, stand-
ard condenser, etc., for
capacity work,
Resistance boxes, standard
megohms, etc.,
High resistan ce Thompson gal-
vanometer,
Standard cells,
Voltameter arranged for the
comparison of incandescent
lamps,
A plug switchboard controlling
all circuits,
A small engine belted to shaft-
ing to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and
, polishing work to be plated;
solution, tank, etc.,—in all,
a complete outfit for electro-
type work,
A hot wire ammeter,
Twelve ammeters and volt-
meters, mostly of the Weston
type for direct current meas-
urements, '	•
A set of wood working tools,
Kohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery.resistance, etc.,
A lot of arc lamps, series and
constant potential, open and
enclosed arcs of various types,
A dynamometer type wattme-
ter,
Recording wattmeters of vari- •
ous types,
A collection of motor starting
rheostats,
A set of parts of incandescent
lamps showing the various
stages in their manufacture, ,
i8
BULLETIN OF THE
A large collection of porcelain
insulators, etc., used in elec-
trical work, including a lot
of insulators for high tension
transmission lines,
A lot of armature core disks,
transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders,
pole pieces, samples of insu-
lation, commutator segments,
etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading
manufacturers of electrical
machinery,
A case of marked samples of
wire insulators, lamps, and
other construction materials,
Library of practical technical
books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and
trade publications,
A Cooper Hewitt mercury vapor
lamp,
A high frequency Tesla cod and
condenser,
A working model of the induc-
tion motor showing the action
of the rotating- field,
A transmission dynamometer
capacity % to io horse power
for determining the efficiency
of small dynamos
Full size armature winding
models mounted to rotate in
bipolar and multipolar fields,
A storage battery, 25 cells with
with universal switch to con-
nect for various voltages.
EQUIPMENT IN THE DEPARTMENTS OF BIOLOGY,
GEOLOGY, AND MINERALOGY.
The department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three large class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for post-
graduate students. All the class-rooms are furnished
with charts and models necessary in teaching the dif-
ferent courses. The arrangement of windows is such
that the rooms can be easily darkened so that a stere-
opticon and lantern slides on the subjects of Botany,
Zoology, and Physiology may be used.
The laboratories are well equipped with compound
and dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a
library of books pertaining to biological subjects. The
botanical laboratory contains twenty-four compound
microscopes and all the requisite accessories for work in
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	19
Vegetable Histology and Cryptogamic Botany. The gen-
eral laboratory of Microscopy, Histology and Embry-
ology is also supplied with compound microscopes and
the equipments indispensable in the courses mentioned
above.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is a
laboratory of Photo-Micrography which contains a per-
fect photo-micrographic instrument with a complete set
of accessory apparatus for experimentation, photograph-
ing microscopic objects, making lantern-slides, etc. A
large and fully equipped dark-room adjoins this labora-
tory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-
rooms and laboratories for the courses in Geology and
Mineralogy. The laboratories adjoining the class-rooms
are well equipped for work in blow-pipe analysis and
assaying.
THE MUSEUM.
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological col-
lection on the second floor at present fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large
collection of representative vertebrate skeletons has re-
cently been added to this part of the Museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists
of two complete Herbaria, one of the United States,
the other of Canada. There, is also a second collection
of the woods and fruits of the United States, almost
- complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
20
BULLETIN OF THE
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series
of cases on each side of the building. In one series is a
carefully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large geological col-
lection ; some of the specimens here are of the rarest
fossil remains of animal and plant life.
ENGINEERING HALL.
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick building, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the mechan-
ical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop and
foundry. The second floor is given up to the wood shop
and also contains a well lighted drawing room where
students in designing may consult complete working
drawings'of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
The wood shop is supplied with modern work-benches
fully equipped with the smaller tools necessary for car-
pentry, lathes for turned work, two jig saws, a pony
planer, a joiner, circular saw and band saw, the whole
forming an adequate equipment for a thorough mastery
of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The machine shop contains two horizontal slide valve
steam engines which are used for experimental purposes.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running the entire length of the building.
The latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed having a
capacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two
drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit,
thus making the machine shop a model of its kind. Dur-
ing the past year there have been completed in the
machine shop seven new screw cutting lathes of four-
teen inch swing, one twenty-eight inch Sibley and
Ware drill-press, one horizontal 8 by 12 slide valve steam
engine and a wood milling machine which will be added
to the equipment in the new building. It is the policy
of this department to refrain as much as possible from
exercise work and each student is usually taking part
in the construction of some new machine or engaged on
general repair work for the University which is regarded
superior to a fixed routine of exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregat-
ing 1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers is
installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows :—a
Worthington hot water meter for measuring the amount
of feed water, a feed water thermometer for getting
temperature of same, a high range thermometer for
temperature of generated steam, a throttling calometer
for ascertaining the quality of steam and an automatic
recording pressure gauge giving a continuous record of
22
BULLETIN OF THE
the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding the
temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means of a
pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining samples
of flue gas for analysis. These, with a Carpenter coal
calorimeter for determining the heating value of fuel,
comprise a full and complete equipment for giving the
student an intimate knowledge of the practical part of
boiler management and testing. A Webster feed water
heater and purifier, two compound duplex -pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two large
Worthington fire pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with a capacity of
1500 gals, per minute, with numerous separators, steam
traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete the
apparatus in the main steam plant. A McEwen high
speed automatic engine, an Armington and Simms engine
of similar type and several low speed horizontal engines
with planimeters, indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules
and other necessary instruments, are used in studying
the operation of the steam engine, distribution and econ-
omy of steam, regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal ten-horse power four cycle gas engine completely
equipped for experimental runs, a five horse power two
cycle vertical gas engine of the marine type, one Mot-
singer Auto-sparker with induction coil, one Apple
Ignition dynamo with storage battery, a Hendricks
Automatic Igniter together with carburettors, spark
plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary equip-
ment for a complete study of the gas engine.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three story building directly south of
. Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to
advanced work and space is given to two' large labora-
tories and lecture rooms. The second floor is occupied
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	23
by the Department of Pharmacy, and contains a large
well-equipped laboratory, a modern drug store, a lecture
room and museum, a library for pharmaceutical
publications, and a general stock room. The general
Inorganic, Organic and Elementary Chemical laboratories
are on the third floor. Each laboratory is provided
with ample hood accomodations, and each desk is fur-
nished with water, gas, and suction.
SORIN HALL.
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
112 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of the
Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room, and a law
library. The building is lighted with electricity and
heated with steam. In the basement are recreation
rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL.
&
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation
rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted with
electricity and gas and heated with steam. Tor room-
rent and care of the room a fee is charged.
THE OBSERVATORY.
This building is located near the Chemical Laboratories
and is designed for an equatorial telescope and for a transit
or meridian circle. The equatorial telescope now in the
building is intended for students of Astronomy, and is
in use whenever favorable weather permits.
24
BULLETIN OF THE
THE INFIRMARY,
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for
the use of students during illness. The sick are nursed
by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University physi-
cian visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM,
The gymnasium which was burnt down in November,
1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground : it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
new apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
and showerbaths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than $3,000 to the fund for
rebuilding.
The Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic
games. There is a permanent grand stand near the base-
ball diamond and the cinder track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten acres
of ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, C. of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS,
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principal are : Saint
Joseph’s Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Fdward’s Hall.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	25
THE SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION.
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his own
curriculum conformably to his natural liking, the career
in life he may have in view, or the determinate intel-
lectual bent developed during his secondary school years ;
but though he is free to elect his own studies he has not,
however, unlimited freedom in this respect. The prin-
ciple of general election is modified, fi-est the young
Freshman in his inexperience choose unwisely, he is aided
in making his choice of studies by being permitted to select
from among a number of parallel programs leading to-
baccalaureate degrees. Sixteen programs are open for
his choice in the Colleges, each embracing courses which,
in the opinion of the Faculty, contribute best to cultural,
scientific or professional knowledge. These programs
are, in some cases, made elastic by the introduction of
elective courses, especially in the Junior and Senior years.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for attendance at recitations and the time neces-
sary for preparation for recitations. One hour of recita-
tion is regarded as the equivalent of two hours of labora-
tory work. The minimum number of credit hours
which a student must carry is sixteen, the maximum
number which he may carry is twenty. Students who
wish to take more work than is indicated by the maxi-
mum requirements must apply by formal petition to
the Faculty for the requisite permission.
26
BULLETIN OF THE
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO THE
COLLEGES.
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges must
present evidence, either by examination or by a properly
attested certificate, of ability to enter on the courses of
the Freshman year. The specific subjects required for
entrance wTill be found in this catalogue before the
schedules of courses in each College.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admission
to the University are held at Notre Dame in September,
at the beginning of the Fall term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations
in one or more of the subjects required for admission to
any College Program may, at the discretion of the
Faculty, be admitted to his class conditioned, to make
up his deficiency by extra study within one school year.
Only when the conditions are removed will the student
be admitted to full standing in his class.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited
to the State Universities, will be admitted without
examination to the Freshman Year of any Program to
which their preparatory studies entitle them.
Certificates of work done in public or private High
Schools will not be accepted instead of examinations,
unless the applicant has passed the final examination
after a full course in his school, and the Faculty of the
University are satisfied with the standing of the school.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing who
are required to take examinations must pass, in addition
to the usual entrance examinations, an examination in
the work already done by the classes they desire to enter.
The additional subjects may be found in the programs'
of studies.
Applicants for advanced standing who present cer-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	2/
tificates from other colleges or universities may be
received at the discretion of the Faculty with or without
examination as regards particular cases.
No student will be received as a candidate for a degree
in the College of Letters and Arts after the beginning of
the Senior year unless he passes an examination in the
Metaphysics and Ethics required in the Junior year.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students who are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences
of Relisrion.
DEGREES.
BACHELORS.
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through
four scholastic years. In the College of Letters and Arts
one of three degrees is conferred on an undergraduate—
Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of Letters (Litt. B.),
Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.)—dependent on the
special program of studies he selects. The College of
Science offers five degrees for choice to undergraduates—
Bachelor of Science (B. S.), Bachelor of Science in
Biology (B. S. Biol.), Bachelor of Science in Chemistry
(B. S. Chern.), Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph. G.), Phar-
maceutical Chemist (Ph.C.). The College of Engineering
offers three degrees—Civil Engineer (C. E-), Mechanical
Engineer (M.E.), and Mechanical Engineer in Electrical
Engineering (M. E. in E. E.). Two degrees are offered
by the College of Architecture—Bachelor of Science
28
BULLETIN OB THE
in Architecture (B. S. Arch.), and Bachelor of Science
in Architectural Engineering (B. S. Arch. Eng.). In
the College of Music one degree is offered ? Bachelor
of Music (B. Mus.). In order to obtain this degree the
candidate must have studied music in the University
for one complete year. He must have a thorough
theoretical knowledge of four instruments mentioned in
the courses described above, and a practical mastery of
one of them. He shall pass a written examination in
Harmony, Counterpoint and Composition, and he must
submit to the examiner two original compositions: (a) a
fugue or full orchestra, or for four voices with indepen-
dent orchestral accompaniment; (b) a composition in the
free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a trio
(pianoforte, violin and violincello).
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one
complete scholastic year in his Senior Year of study.
MASTERS.
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing and who
make application to the Committee of the Faculty on
Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing advanced
work. All work must be approved by this Committee.
One year of residence, at least, is required of candi-
dates who have received their Bachelor’s degree
at another college. Those who have received their
Bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in some cases
to be determined by the Committee, obtain the Master’s
degree for wrork done in absentia. One major and one
or two minor courses will constitute the curriculum,
forming a consistent, co-ordinated plan of advanced wmrk
pursued with some definite aim. On completion of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
required work the candidate must pass a satisfactory
examination in writing under the professors who give
his subjects of instruction. The candidate for this degree
must also write a dissertation of notable merit on some
topic connected with his major subject, the thesis to con-
tain in the minimum five thousand words. The subject
of the thesis must be announced to the Committee by
December 1, and submitted for examination by May 15.
Dive printed or typewritten copies of the thesis must be
presented to the University to be placed in.the library.
The fee for examination of work done in absentia is fixed
at twenty-five dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Univer-
sity work before the degree of Doctor shall be conferred,—
two of these years must be spent at Notre Dame and one
at some other University on approval of the Committee
of the Faculty on Graduate Study. The candidate must
pass satisfactory examinations in Trench and German
on entrance. The work for the degree shall consist of
one major and two minor courses of instruction approved
by the Committee. Research study shall form the most
important part of the candidate’s work. On completion
of his work the candidate must pass minute examinations
on the three subjects of his curriculum and must defend
his dissertation before the whole Faculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies pre-
sented presented to the University. A copy of the
thesis must be handed to the Committee one month
before the examinations. The degree will not be con-
ferred for merely faithful work, and not for miscellaneous
study, but for original research and for high attainment
in one branch of study. The fee for the degree is fixed
at fifty dollars.
BULLETIN OF THE
DISCIPLINE.
Official reports of each, student’s class standing will
be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintain that an education which, gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of a
youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible
to bring about this development where students are
granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty government
while outside the class-room. A young man must learn
obedience to the law by the actual practice of obedience,
not merely by appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that are
needed for collegiate work are not obtained except where
discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by exper-
ience to be salutary, are enforced at the University :
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
dalegated to represent him. -
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students dur-
ing the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity. There
is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in exam-
inations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the
use of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
absence from the University limits are among the causes for
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	31
expulsion. In case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees will be returned.	<
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall; and those under thirteen, in St. Edward's Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls as have
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or
Corby Hall leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations are
received,, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
service in the University Church at stated times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is strictly pro-
hibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense ©f
study will not be permitted, but students are expected to
take part in outdoor sports and other games.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors of
professionalism.
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-president of the University and six members of the
Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve the right of
a final decision on all questions concerning athletics. The
32
BULLETIN OF THE
Faculty Board will determine the amateur standing of •
the members of the athletic teams and apportion the
finances. By this means indiscreet and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Among those who have addressed the
University in the past few years may be noted four
Apostolic Delegates: Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli,
and Monsignors Falconio and Agius ; Archbishops Ire-
land, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and
Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, O’Gorman and
Shanley. There were also such noted Buropean church-
men as the Abbe Felix Klein and the foremost of living
Bnglish historians, Dom Gasquet, besides men of letters
like Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Bgan, Henry
Van Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats,
James Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie and
Henry James, and such men of affairs as Senator Taft,
ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge, Secretary of Navy
Charles Jerome Bonaparte, William P. Breen and Bourke
Cockran. Concerts are given frequently by organizations
from wnthout.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	33
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).........$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and mending of
Linens, per session of nearly Ten Months.... 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)............$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition.................... 250.00
Deposit on Booh and Stationery Account................. 10.00
Special Lecture and Concert Course...................... 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra Expense the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed below 1.
On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition...............................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have Incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Sessions, September and January. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00.per Scholastic Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scho-
lastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the
student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice;
and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself
from the University at any time or for any cause without proper
permission. However, an exception is made if it seems to be
expedient for him to go to his home because of severe or pro-
tracted illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any student
whose account with the University has not been settled. 0
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
For whole Session of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS —
Seniors, Juniors, and Sopnomores, Free; Fres hmen • • • • $50.00
Preparatory Students................  $80.00
34
BULLETIN OF THE
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular studies of the program they have entered, any of the
following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year.
The charges will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Les-	Vocal Culture.......$40.00
sons on Piano and use	Elocution — Special
of Instrument.....$60.00	Course............ 10.00
Use of Piano for Ad-	Use of Library....... 5.00
vanced Students......30.00 “Scholastic”—College
Typewriting—Full Course 20.00 Paper............... 1.50
Typewriting — Short	Telegraphy.......... 25.00
Course (20 Lessons). 5.00	Artistic Drawing.....25.00
Phonography........... 25.00	Applied	Electricity...40.00
Practical Mechanics... 30.00 Special Lecture and Con-
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,	cert Course Ticket.. 3.00
Flute, Cornet, Clarinet	Gymnastics—Full Course
or Mandolin....... 30.00	(20 Lessons)....... 5.00
Use of each Instrument.. 5.00
Laboratory Fees Listed under Regular Courses.
DIPLOMA FEES.
For degree of Ph. D., $50.00 ; for Master’s Degrees, $10.00; for
all College Courses leading to degrees, $10.00; Commercial Course,
$5.00. Short Courses in Electricity and Mechanical Engineering,
$5.00; Telegraphy, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fee, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
etc., are required with the first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, postoffice money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not accepted unless exchange is
included.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed during
the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend their
Summer Vacation under the care of the University authorities
can be accomodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the Univer-
sity, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesiastical
state can be received at special rates. Fuller information can be
obtained by addressing the President.
College of Arts and Letters*
Department of Classics
Department of Letters
Department of History
and Economics
36
BULLETIN OF THE
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS.
ENTRANCE EXAMINATIONS.
English — Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder, for
•writing an essay.
Latin—Grammar, complete ; Csesar, four books of
the Gallic War ; Cicero, four orations against Catiline ;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translation at sight of pass-
ages from Cicero and Caesar; translation of English into
Latin based on the text of the authors.
Greek—(For Students in the Department of Classics
only) Grammar, etymology, and general rules of syn-
tax ; Xenophon, Anabasis, four books ; Homer, at least
three books ; prose composition based on text.
History—A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
History, as set out in the texts used in high schools and
other secondary schools.
Civil Government—The Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebva} or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Physical Geography—As given in Tarr’s text-book or
an equivalent treatise.
Zoology — Elementary.
Physiology—Martin’s Hitman Body, or an equivalent.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
37
Botany — Elementary.
Chemistry — Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in which
at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation in this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar to
Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is.
recommended, but is not required.
French and German — A three year’s study of either
German or French and one year of French or German is
required for entrance on the program in Letters and the
program in History and Economics. Students who
began French in the second preparatory year must have
taken up German in the fourth preparatory year and
shall continue it for two years in the college course. A
like regulation holds for those who began German in the
second preparatory year. Students in the Department
of Classics present a year of French or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation
of ordinary German or French prose : an ability to trans-
late, rather than accurate grammatical knowledge is


BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of
Bachelor of Arts.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin - - -	4	99	I.	Latin - -	4	99	II.
Greek - -	4	96	I.	Greek - - -	4	96	II.
English - -	3	IOI	I.	English - -	3	IOI	I.
History - -	4	108	I.	History - -	4	108	I.
Elocution - -	i	112	III.	Elocution -	1	112	IV.
Elocution. -	i	113	VIII.	Elocution - -	1	113	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin - - -	4	99	III.	Latin - -	4	99	IV.
Greek - -	4	96	III.	Greek - - -	4	96	IV.
Philosophy -	4	94	I.	Philosophy -	4	94	I.
English - -	3	102	II.	English - -	3	102	II.
Elocution -	1	113	VIII.	Elocution - -	1	113	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Latin - - -	4	99	V.	Latin - - -	4	100	VI.
'Greek - -	4	96	v.	Greek - -	4	97	VI.
Philosophy -	4	94	II.	Philosophy -	4	94	II.
English - -	3	102	III.	English - -	3	T02	III.
Elocution - -	1	113	VIII	Elocution -	1	Ii3	VIII.
SENIOR YEAR.
Latin - - -	4	100	VII.	Latin - - -	4	IOI	VIII.
Greek - -	4	97	VII.	Greek - -	4	98	VIII.
Philosophy - -	4	95	III.	Philosophy -	4	95	III.
English - -	3	103	IV.	English - -	3	103	IV.
Elocution - -	1	112	VI.	Elocution - -	1	113	VII.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
39
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of
Bachelor of Letters.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE EOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Cours
English - -	3	IOI	I.	English - -	3	IOI	I.
Latin or	4	99	I.	Latin or 1	4	99	II.
Elective J ’	5			Elective J	5		
French or 1	3	105	IL	French or)	3	105	II.
German J	3	104	II.	German J *	3	I04	II.
History - -	4	IOS	I.	History - -	4	I08	I.
Elocution - -	i	112	III.	Elocution -	i	112	IV.
Elocution -	i	113	VIII.	Elocution - -	1	113	VIII.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English - -	3	102	II.	English - - •	3	102	II.
Philosophy -	4	94	I.	Philosophy -	4	94	I.
Latin or 1	4	99	HI.	Latin or 1	4	99	IV.
Elective J '	5			Elective J '	5		
French or }	2	105	III.	French or 1	2	105	III.
German J "	2	104	III.	German J '	2	104	III.
History - -	3	108	II a.	History -	-	n O	108	II a.
Elocution - -	1	113	VIII.	Elocution -	I	IB	VIII.
JUNIOR YEAR.	/
English - ■
Latin or I
Elective j '
Philosophy -
History - -
Elocution -
3	102	III.
4	99	V.
5		
4	94	II.
4	ic8	III.
1	”3	VIII.
English - -
Latin or I
Elective j ’
Philosophy - -
History - -
Elocution - -
3	102	III.
4 5	100	VI.
4	94	II.
4	108	III.
1	113	VIII.
SENIOR YEAR.
English - -	3	103	IV.	English - -	3	103	IV.
Latin or. J	4	100	VII.	Latin or J	4	IOI	VHI.
Elective _ ’	5			Elective „ ~	5		
Philosophy -	4	95	III.	Philosophy -	4	95	III.
Elective - -	4			Elective - -	4		
Elocution -	1	112	VI.	Elocution -	1	113	VII.
40
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of Bachelor
of Philosophy.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR description:.		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page.	Course			Page	Course
History - -	4	io8	I	History - -	4	10S	I
English. - -	3	IOI	I	English - -	3	IOI	I
French, or}	3	105	II	French or}	3	105	II
German J	3	104	II	German j	3	104	II
Spanish - -	5	106	I	Spanish - -	5	IO6	I
Elocution - -	i	112	III	Elocution	1	112	IV
Elocution -	i	113	VIII	Elocution - -	1	TI3	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
History - - Political	3	I08	II a	History - - Political	3	108	II a
Science - -	4	IIO	I	Science -	4	IIO	II
Philosophy -	4	94	I	Philosophy -	4	94	I
English - -	0	102	II	English - -	3	102	II
German or }	2	104	III	German or I	2	104	III
French J	2	105	III	French J	2	105	III
Elocution -	I	113	VIII	Elocution -	1	*13	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR.
History - - Political	> 4	108	II b	History - - Political	4	109	IV a
Science - -	4	IIO	III	Science -	4	IIO	IV
Philosophy -	4	94	II	Philosophy - -	4	94	II
History - - -	4	108	III	History - -	4	108	III
Elocution -	1	113	VIII	Elocution - -	1	i*3	VIII
SENIOR YEAR.
History - -	3	109	IV b	History - -	3	109	IV b
Political		IIO	V VI	Political		in	VI
Science - -	6	in	VII	Science -	6	nr	VII. VIII
Philosophy -	4	95	III	Philosophy -	4	95	III
English - - -	3	102	III	English - -	3	102	III
Elocution -	1	112	VI	Elocution - -	1	113	VII
College of Science*
Department of Biology
Department of Chemistry
Department of Pharmacy


42
bulletin: of the
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE.
REQUIREMENTS FDR ADMISSION.
Candidates for the Freshman class of the four year
programs must be prepared to pass an examination in the
branches named below, unless satisfactory assurance of
proficiency is given by approved certificate.
Physical Geography—As given in Tarr’s text-book or
an equivalent treatise.
Physiology— Martin’s Human Body or an equivalent.
Zoology—Elementary.
Botany—Elementary.
Civil Government—The American Constitution. Fed-
eral and State Government.
History — General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Algebra—The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
•given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry—Plain and Spherical.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Chemistry—A course of at least fifty experiments in
elementary chemistry actually performed by the pupil.
German—A two year course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English,
and easy English into German.
English— Part of the examination is given for answer-
ing questions upon books required to be read in the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
43
preparatory courses in English; the remainder for writ-
ing an essay. •
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar to
■Carhart and Chute’s 'or Gage’s. Laboratory work is
recommended, but is not required.'
Latin—Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on text of Caesar.
44
BULLETIN OF THE
THE PROGRAM OF GENERAL SCIENCE.
The Program in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit him-
self, either for further study of a technical or professional
kind, or for the activities of business life. The Natural
and Physical Sciences constitute the primary studies of
this program. Grouped about these are those studies in
English, Mathematics, and Modern Languages, which
experience has shown to be necessary for the intelligent
pursuit of science and for the attainment of the object of
the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every stu-
dent in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior year..
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective..
Advanced courses may be chosen in Physics, Chemistry,
Biology and Mathematics.
Bvery candidate for a degree in the Program of Gen-
eral Science is required to submit, before the final ex-
amination, a written thesis upon some subject connected
with the elective work of the Senior year. The subject
chosen must have the approval of the professor in the
course elected. The thesis shall contain no less than five
thousand words, and must be satisfactory in matter
and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the
final examination, and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an ‘ ‘hour’ ’ means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES.
Chemistry I., VIL, each..............  $	5.00.
Chemistry III., IL, IV., V., VI., VIII , IX.,
xl xnr J
..................................... 10.00
Physics III............................ 5.00
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
45
Studies Prescribed for Program in General Science.
(DEGREE: BACHELOR OE SCIENCE.)
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. _ a . Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Year.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology - -	5	146	I	Zoology - -	6	146	I
Chemistry -	4	139	III	C emistry -	4	139	III
Algebra - -	5	113	I	An. Geometry	5	114	II
Drawing - -	2	153	I	Drawing - -	1	153	II
Physiology -	4	149	I	Physiology -	4	149	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany - -	5	144	1, 11	Botany - -	5	145	1, 11
Chemistry -	4	140	IV	Physics - -	5	138	11, in
Physics - -	5	138	11, hi	Calculus - -	5	H5	IV, V
Calculus - -	5	114	in	Elective - -	5		
JUNIOR YEAR.
Geology - -	2	137	1	Geology - -	4	137	in
Elective - -	5			Astronomy -	3	136	1
English - -	3	IOI	I	English - -	3	IOI	I
French - -	5	105	I	French - -	5	105	I
Philosophy -	4	94	1	Philosophy -	4	94	1
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy -	4	94	11	Philosophy -	4	94	11
Three Elect’vs				Three Elect’vs			
in Science -	9-12			in Science -	9-12		
French or J	3	105	11	French or J	3	105	11
German J "	3	104	11	German J	3	104	11
46
BULLETIN OK THE
THE PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY.
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them for '
professional work either in the laboratory or the class-
room. Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule of
work admits in the Junior and Senior year of some elec-
tive study.
Every candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject con-
nected with Chemistry and must submit, at least four
weeks before the final examination, a written thesis on
work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must con-
tain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is •
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination. .
In the schedule, an ‘ 'hour5 ’ means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES.
Chemistry I., VIL, each..............$	5.00
Chemistry II., III., IV., V., VI., VIII., IX.,
I	XL, XIII., each..............   10.00
Physics III........................ 5.00
UNIVERSITY UE NOTRE DAME.
47
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of Bachelor of
Science in Chemistry.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Chemistry -	4	139	III	Chemistry -	4	139	III
Algebra - -	5	113	I	Anal. Geom. -	5	114	II
French - - -	5	105	I	French - - -	5	lo5	I
Physics - -	5	138	II, III	Physics - -	5	1 co co	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Chemistry -	4	140	IV	Chemistry - -	4	140	V
Calculus - -	5	114	in	Calculus - -	5	115	IV, V
Geology - -	2	i37	1	Geology - -	4	137	III
Chemistry -	5	141	VI	Chemistry -	, 6	142	IX
Gas Analysis -	4	141	VIII				
JUNIOR YEAR.
Chemistry - Chemistry	7	142	IX	Chemistry - Chemistry	7	142 143	XI,XIII
Elective -	5			Elective - -	5		*
Elective - -	5			Assaying - -	2	137	II
English - -	3	101	1	English - -	3	IOI	I
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy - History of Chemistry - Elective - - Scientific Readings in German and French - -	4 3 5 2 2	94 143	11 XII	Philosophy - Chemistry Elective - Scientific Readings in German and French - - Thesis -	-	4 5 2 2	94	11
4$
BULLETIN OF THE
THE PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY.
The Program in Biology has been designed for stu-
dents who wish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
‘to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required to prepare an
■essay during the first term of the Junior Year on some
■subject pertaining to biology, Every candidate for a
■degree must submit before the final examinations a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings.
■Students not preparing themselves for a medical course
may substitute for the advanced courses in Anatomy
•and Physiology equivalents from either Mathematics,
Physics, or English Literature.
LABORATORY FEES,
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I., II........ 5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany II. and III.... 5.00
.Microscopy—for Courses I. and II.......... 2.50
’ Bacteriological Laboratory— Bacteriology. io.co
Bhysics III................................ 5.00
^Chemistry III., IV., V., VI., each........ 10.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	49
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of Bachelor
of Science in Biology.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS ,	FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Weet	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
-Zoology - -	5	146	I	Zoology - -	6	146	I
Chemistry -	4	139	III	Chemistry -	4	139	III
Microscopy -	2	147	I	English - -	3	IOI	I
English - - -	3	TOI	I	French - - -	5	105	I
French - -	5	105	I	Drawing - -	1	155	IX
Drawing - -	1	155	IX				
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Physiology -	4	149	1	j Physiology - ! Botany - - -	4	i49	1
Botany - - -	5	144	i, 11		5	144	i, 11
Chemistry -	4	149	IV	Chemistry -	4	140	V
Physics - -	5	138	II, HI	Physics - -	5	138 11, hi	
Drawing - -	1	155	X	‘ Drawing - -	1	155	X
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anatomy -	3	148	Hi	Anatomy - -	3	148	Hi
Botany - - -	6	145	III, IV	Botany - - -	4	145	III, IV
Geology - -	2	137	1	Geology - -	4	137	hi
Philosophy -	4	94	1	Philosophy -	4	94	1
Bacteriology -	3	150	1	Chemistry -	5	141	VI
SENIOR YEAR.
Anatomy - -	5	148	TI, III	Anatomy -	5	148	11, hi
Physiology -	6	149	JI	Puysiol gy - -	6	149	11
Zoology - - Thesis • - -	6	147	II	Zoology - - Thesis - - -	6	147	11
bulletin: of the
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY.
There are two programs in Pharmacy: one of two years,
leading to the degree Graduate in Pharmacy, (Ph. G.) ;
and another of three years leading to the degree, Phar-
maceutical Chemist, (Ph. C.)
ADMISSION.
Applicants for admission to the Short Program must be
18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
common English branches. A certificate of admission
to a high school will be accepted instead of an examina-
tion.
The requirements for the long program are the same,
except that an examination in Eatin through Caesar and
Algebra as far as logarithms must be passed. Satisfac-
tory evidence of having spent two years in a high school
of the best grade will be accepted instead of an examina-
tion.
METHODS.
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated processes.
Special attention is given to the little details, which •
are essential to success, in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
51
preparations are required throughout the course.
Attention is given to Animal Extracts, Serum-Ther-
apy, Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alka-
loidal Medication.
EQUIPMENT.
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same expe-
rience that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full charge. He is required
to furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute a
very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to read
them and to compound those requiring special manipula-
tion. The reading room is supplied with all the leading
pharmaceutical journals and books of reference. The
Pharmacognosy room contains specimens of all the
official and a great many unofficial drugs for study and
identification.
THESIS.
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a sub-
ject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of
this work are carefully recorded and must be typewrit-
ten and presented to the Faculty as a requirement for
graduation.
52
BULLETIN OF THE
LABORATORY FEES.
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II..................$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory III. and	IV. each .. 20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI. and	VII.40.00
•Chemistry 1................................... 5-°°
•Chemistry IV., V., each...................... 10.00
Microscopy....................................  2-50
Programs in the Department of Pharmacy.
DEGREES: Eh. G., Ph. C.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy -	3	150	I	Pharmacy -	6	150-	I, II F I
Arithmetic - -	3	152	IX	Physics - - -	5	183	
Botany - -	5	144	I, II	Chemistry -	2	142	X
Microscopy -	2	147	I	Botany - - - Mat’ra Medica	5	144	I
Chemistry -	5	139	I		2	152	VIII (1, 2.)
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy - -	8	151	III, IV	Pharmacy - -	8		V, VI
Chemistry -	4	140	IV	Chemistry -	4	140	V
Mat’ra Medica	3	152	VIII (U 3-)	Mat’ra Medica	3	152	VIII (2, 3.)
Bacteriology -	3	150	1	Physiology -	4	149	I
THIRD YEAR.
Pharmacy - - Chemistry - Geology - - Thesis - - - Elective - -	5 5 2 2 5	151 141 137	VI VI 1	Pharmacy - Chemistry - - Toxicology and Urin’yAn Thesis - - - Elective - -	5 5 3 2 5	151 141 141	VII XIV VII
o
&
College of Engineering
Department of Civil Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Electrical Engineering;
54
BULLETIN OF THE
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING.
In the industrial development of a country the en-
gineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the three departments
of engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that are
applied in engineering work. Mathematics is foremost
among these requirements. The natural sciences receive
their share of attention and due importance is given to
languages in arranging the programs of studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to cor-
respond as closely as possible to the real work of the
engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are ac-
quired by applying the results of mathematical calcula-
tions to particular practical cases in laboratory work.
Three regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, and one to the de-
gree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accomodate those who wish
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	55
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest possi-
ble time. .
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work.
( For list of available apparatus, see pages 13-22.)
In the schedules of studies one hour of credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one to
two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in labora-
tory work, shop work or drawing are required for each
hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 33, the regular
students in the three Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appa-
ratus used, as follows:
LABORATORY FEES.
Physical Laboratory III.....................$	5.00
Physical Laboratory IV...................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory I., II................ 15,00
Electrical Laboratory IV.................... 15.00
Shopwork, all four-year programs, per term.. 15.00
Chemistry 1................................. 5.00
Chemistry II., IV., V., each................ 10.00
56
BULLETIN OF THE
ACADEMIC REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION TO THE
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING,
Algebra, The whole subject as far as logarithms as.
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry—Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb >
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry — Plane and Spherical.
Astronomy — Descriptive.
Civics — The Constitution of the United States.
Federal Government and State Government.
History—General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Geography — Physical, as much- as is contained in
Tarr’s text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics—Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar to*
Car hart and Chute’s or Gage’s, laboratory work is.
recommended, but is not required.
Chemistry—The elements of Inorganic Chemistry,
laboratory work required.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology—As given in ele-
mentary text-books.
Modern Language—Engineering students must pre-
sent a two years’ course in German.
English — Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfactorily
0
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME..	57
he may begin at once the regu’ar Freshman work;.. but
if he is deficient in any one or more subjects he may
enter conditionally and make up his deficiency as soon
as possible in the Preparatory Department.
Credits from High Schools or preparatory schools in-
good standing will be accepted in place of examinations,.
58
bulletin of the
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession either
in the office or in some of the responsible positions super-
intending the construction and operation of public works.
To secure these results the student is given, not only a
sound theoretical training in the courses of study, but
he is also required to study the practical applications
of the principles upon wdiich the theory is based. The
first two years are devoted to the study of mathematics
and the theoretical branches. The last two years are
given to the study of applied courses—practical work in
the laboratory and field, as much as possible, being
required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects. In-
struction based upon standard text-books on engineering
is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening
his interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	59
field engineering. After the student is taught the use
and adjustment of the instruments, surveys, elementary
in character, are commenced and continued progressively
until the more difficult principles and methods are under-
stood. In a similar manner is instruction given in the
courses of Sanitary Engineering, Hydromechanics, Re-
sistance of Materials, Bridges and Roofs, etc., thus
familiarizing the student with practical engineering sub-
jects, and the most improved method of execution and
designing.	’
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of the
Department connected with the course of study, is
required of each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original
research.
(For equipment and facilities see pages 13-19.)
6o
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of Civil Engineer.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra - -	5	113	I.	Anal. Geom.	5	114	II.
English - -	3	IOI	I.	French - -	5	105	I.
French - -	5	105	I.	Chemistry -	3	139	II.
Chemistry	3	139	II.	Drawing - -	2	153	II.
Drawing	’ 3	153	I.,II.	Surveying -	5	Il6	II.III.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus - -	5	114	III.	Calculus - -	5	115	IV. V..
Des. Geometry	3	116	I.	Des. Geometry	3	116	I.
R.R. Survey’g	5	117	VI. VII.	Adv. Survey’g	5	117	IV. ,v.
Physics - -	5	138	II. III.	Physics - -	5	138	II, III..
Drawing -	1	153	V.	Drawing -	1	153	V.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics -	5	118	VIII.	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	118	VIII
Geodesy - -	4	119	IX.	Materials -	3	119	X.
English - -	3	102	II.	Astronomy -	3	I36	I.
Geology - -	2	137	I.	English - -	3	102	II.
Stereotom y -	3	154	VI.	Geology - -	4	137	III.
				Drawing - -	3	154	VII.
SENIOR YEAR.
Engineering -	5	120	XII.	Engineei ing -	5	120	XII.
Hydromechan	3	123	XVI.	Hydrome chan	3	123	XVI.
Bridges, Roofs	5	122	XIV.	Graph. Stat. -	5	122	XV.
Sanitary Eng.	2	121	XIII.	Sanitary Eng.	2	121	XIII.
Drawing - -	3	154	VII.	Roads, Pav’mt Thesis - - -	4	120	XI.
"UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
6l
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING*
The program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and for
the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
■applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only
those capable of adapting themselves to these require-
ments should take it up. The program of the department
is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used
in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the science
of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions
of connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions, to the work done or energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct devel-
opment of kinematics, and the course continues through-
out the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop,
in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When the students have become
sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the work
of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
62
BULLETIN OF THE
the student by easy steps until lie has mastered all the
details of the work.
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culmination effort of the program,
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show con-
siderable originality.
Tvery possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some one of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the par-
ticular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas engine
design and operation. A systematic curriculum of study
will be outlined in each individual case leading to a
complete and proficient knowledge of the work under-
taken.
Access may be had to all the machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort is
made by the authorities to make the work as compre-
hensive as possible.
(For equipment and facilities see pages 13-22.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
63
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of Mechanical Engineer
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRT3 TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra - -	5	113	I	Analyt. Geom	5	114	II
French - -	5	105	I	French - -	5	105	I
Drawing - -	3	153	I	Drawing - -	3	153	II
Chemistry -	3	139	II	Chemistry -	3	139	II
Shop work -	3	I£O	XIV a	Shopwork	3	131	XIV b •<
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus - -	5	114	III	Calculus - -	5	115	IV, V
Drawing - -	3	154	VIII	Drawing - -	3	154	VIII
Chemistry -	4	140	IV	Chemistry -	4	140	V
Physics - -	5	138	II, III	Physics - -	5	138	11, in XIV d
Shopwork -	3	131	XIV c	Shopwork -	3	r3i	
JUNIOR YEAR.
An. Mechanics	5	118	VIII	An. Mechanics	2	118	VIII
Kinematics -	5	125	V	Meeh’s of Mat	3	119	X
English - -	3	101	I	Mach’n Design	3	125	VI
Physics - -	3	138	IV	Valve Gears	2	126	VII
Shopwork -	o	131	XIV e	English - -	3	101	I
				Physics	3	138	IV
				Shop work -	3	131	XIV f
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of Engineering	2	124	II	Steam Engine Design - -	5	124	III
Thermod’ nam	5	123	I	Steam Boilers	3	124	IV
Steam Engine Design - Mechan’l Dab Shopwork -	5 3 3	124 126 131	III VIII XLVf	Hydraulics - Thesis - - -	5	126	IX
^4	BULLETIN OF TELE
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING*
"Theory, Design, and Operation of Gas, Oil,
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, and embraces it in theory, design,
.construction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
(engineering.
'The essential work of the first year consists of a general
descriptive study of the different types of engines with
'discussions on the general management, operation, care
.and special uses to which this type of motor may be
-applied. During the second year the general theory of
the gas engine is studied and the design of an engine for
a specific purpose is undertaken by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodynamic
’efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Experiments
in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation of
vaporizers aud curburetters, construction of spark coils
with management and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
•application to the theories advanced in the class room by
the complete building and testing of a gas engine of a
design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each student
is required to prepare the patterns and core-boxes,
machine the castings and forgings, assemble the complete
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
65
engine and submit a comprehensive report of a test on the
machine constructed. If the report proves satisfactory, a
certificate of proficiency is given to the student and the
gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student must certify
by examination or certificate evidence of a knowledge of
Algebra as far as logarithms and his further ability to
pursue the studies of the first year. Candidates shall
also write a short essay, which must be satisfactory
in spelling, punctuation, sentence and paragraph con-
struction.
(For equipment and facilities see pages 16-18.)
Studies Prescribed for Short Program in Mechanical
Engineering.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Year.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Geometry		5	179	E	Trigonometry	5	l8o	H
Drawing		2	153	I	Drawing - - -	2	153	II
Shop work - -	3	130	XIV a	Shopwork - -	3	131	XlVb
Chemistry - -	5	182	EI	Physics - - - -	5	183	FI
Gas Engines -	5	127	XI	V apor Engines	5	127	XI
SECOND YEAR.
Motor Design	15	127	XII	Motor Design	10	127	XII
Gas Engine -	3	128	XIII	Gas Engine -	3	128	XIII
Laboratory - -	3	126	VIII	Laboratory - - Engines and	3	126	VIII
				Boilers - - -	3	126	X
66
BUUUETIN OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING*
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for
men skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
in the program of Electrical Engineering is intended to
give a general education as well as a special training
in the technical branches involved in the various prac-
tical applications of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires some skill in
handling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records of
the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
center in the growth of which electricity is taking a very
prominent part. Electric power generated by steam is
now being distributed and utilized in several large plants,
some using the three phase alternating system, while
others are using the direct current. One of the largest
water power developments in the Middle West is situated
within a few miles of the University. From this
establishment we receive three phase alternating currents
which furnish light for our buildings and grounds, and
power for driving motors in our shops and printing
offices, etc., all of which are operated by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power within
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
67
a short distance. Our students visit all of these plants,
accompanied by an instructor who points out the appli-
cations of the text-book theory in the design of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working
conditions.
Bach candidate for graduation must present at the end
of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying the
results of an extended original research on an engineering
subject, chosen at the beginning of the year, with the
approval of the head of the department. The descriptive
part must be typewritten on legal cap paper, and bound
in book form together with the drawings.
(For equipment see pages 9-19.)
68
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Prescribed for the Degree of Mechanical
Engineer in Electrical Engineering*
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION.		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page.	Course			Page	Course
Algebra		5	US	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	114	II
French - - - -	5	105	I	French - - - -	5	105	I
Drawing		3	153	I	Drawin er		3	153	II
Chemistry - -	3	139	II	Chemistry - -	3	139	II
Shopwork - -	3	i3o	XIV a	Shopwork - -	3	131	XIV b
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus — -	5	114	III	Calculus - - -	5	115	IV, V
Des. Geom. - -	4	153	III	Des. Geom.- -	4	153	III
Physics - - —	5	138	II, III	Physics		5	138	II, III
Shopwork - -	3	13*	XIV c	Shopwork - -	3	131	XIV d
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic ■ Mechanics -	5	118	VIII	An. Mechanics Meeh’s of Mat.	2 3	n8 119	VIII X
Kinematics- -	5	125	V	Machine		125	
English		3	101	I	Design - - -	5	126	VI, VII
Physics		3	138	IV	English		3	101	I
Shopwork - -	3	131	XIV e	Physics		3	138	IV
				Shopwork - -	3	131	XIV f
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo Machinery -	5	129	III	Dynamo Machinery -	5	129	III
Thermodyn’m	5	123	I	Electrical Dab	5	130	IV
Electrical Dab	5	130	IV	Designing - -	3	130	V
Designing - - Thesis		3	130	V	Hydraulics - - Thesis - 7 - -	5	126	IX
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
69
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY.
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take -up the Short program, which may be
completed in two years. The studies are arranged to
give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental theories
of electricity and magnetism, as well as a certain
amount of skill in handling electrical machinery and
appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and
elementary physics are included, for they are neces-
sary in order to carry on successfully the practical
work of designing, manufacturing and testing or operat-
ing electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work
is given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and
in the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power are
learned by testing, repairing and making additions to the
University plant and by visiting the numerous electric
establishments in the vicinity, accompanied, by an in-
structor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as quadratics.
They shall also write a short essay which must be satis-
70	BULLETIN OF THE
factory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and paragraph
structure.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate stating that fact is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, according to the following
schedule, after they have finished all the work required
for entrance, shall be as given on page 55.
All others are special students and for them the fee is
as given on page 34, for Applied Electricity.
Studies Prescribed for the Short Program in Applied
Electricity.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra - - - -	5	179	c	Geometry		5	179	D
Drawing - - -	2	153	I	Drawing - - -	2	153	II
Shopwork - -	3	130	XIV a	Shopwork —	3	131	XIV b
Physics		5	137	I	Physics - — -	5	137	I
Applied Electricity -	5	128	I	Applied Electricity -	5	129	I
SECOND YEAR.
Trigonometry	5	180	H	Engines and Boilers		3	126	X
Designing - -	'J 0	130	V	Designing - -	3	130	V
Shopwork - -	3	131 XIV c		Shopwork - -	3	131	XIV d
Dynamo Machinery -	5	129	III	Dynamo Machinery -	5	129	III
Applied Electricity -	5	129	II	Applied Electricity -	5	129	II
College of Architecture
72
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that can be expressed on so large a scale that a
deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering science
is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Architect is the heaven-gifted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of form,
color, texture, and ornament, can build them structurally
and economically perfect. It is seldom that any mind
combines all of these attributes. It is more seldom that
to-day’s practice requires them in any one man. To-day,
one man (‘ designs ’ ’; another 1 ‘ frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of Architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Programs in Architecture from
the College of Engineering and to create the new Colleg'e
of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offer three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men able
to furnish the entrance requirements. The Beaux-Arts
program requires four years for completion and is offered
to students wishing to specialize in design; the degree
of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is given at comple-
tion. The Engineering program is of the same length and
is offered to men wishing to specialize in construction ;
the degree is Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engi-
neering. Graduate courses are offered after the recep-
tion of either degree, and, upon completion, a Master’s
degree is conferred. A Short program covering two
years is offered to students finding it impossible or inex-
pedient to devote to college work the time required for
completing the programs leading to degrees. Upon com-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
73
pletion of the Short program a certificate of proficiency
in architecture is given.	'
The general scheme of the programs provides for work
in the draughting-room continuously during the morning
hours from 8 to 12, and for recitation periods of class-
room work in the afternoon. In the Senior years and
in the Short program the recitation requirements are
less and the time to be spent in the draughting-room
correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short program or either
of the four-year programs must be at least eighteen years
of age and must have completed the studies preparatory to
Architecture either in the Preparatory Department of the
University or in another accredited school; or, entrance
may be by examination, at the University on the first
two days of the fall term.
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition; and any condition interfering with the routine
of the programs must be worked off privately.
Tor students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in Archi-
tecture or in Architectural Engineering from Notre
Dame or another College of Architecture of equal stand-
ing. The University will confer the Master’s degree on
her own graduate students not in residence at the end of
one year if that time is spent in an atelier of the first
order or in travel abroad following an approved curri-
culum of study and investigation; or at the end of not
less than two years if that time is spent in practice and
if the requirements of the University are complied with.
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from a
small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of - signed drawings—
74
BULLETIN OF THE
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts., others from archi-
tects of national reputation ; photographs, engravings,
plaster models, reference books and manufacturers’
catalogues and samples. The collection, however, needs
to be increased faster than the resources of the University
will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre Dame can
not give money or its equivalent for a better purpose.
The endowment of a Travelling Fellowship, preferably
for the study of European Ecclesiastical Architecture,
will be a benefaction of the utmost practical value. One
thousand dollars will provide for one man for one year.
EXPENSES,
In addition to the regular fees for matriculation,
tuition, and board and lodging, as given on page 33,
students in the Courses in Architecture are required to
pay a laboratory fee of ten dollars.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS.
Candidates for the Freshman Year in either of the
four-year programs or for the first year of the Short
Program must be prepared to pass an examination in
the branches named below, unless they have done their
preparatory work at Notre Dame or at an accredited
High School.
English—Part of the examination is given for an-
swering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English, the remainder for
writing an essay.
Algebra — Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to loga-
rithms, as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an
equivalent in the larger treatises by other authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
Geometry—Plane and solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors. ’
Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
History—A. general knowledge of the outlines of Greek
and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
History.
Geography—Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr's or other text-books.
Physiology—Martin's Human Body, or an equivalent.
Botany — Blementary.
Zoology — Blementary.
Chemistry — Blements of inorganic chemistry. Rab-
oratory work required.
Physics—Blementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar to
Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is
recommended, but is not required.
Astronomy—Descriptive.
Civics — The American Constitution ; the Federal and
the State government.
German—Two years of German are required. Ability
to translate at sight easy German into Bnglish, and easy
Bnglish sentences into German.
French—An equivalent course in French may be
offered for German.
Drawing—A knowledge of the use of drawing instru-
ments, of elementary projection drawing and freehand.
76
BULLETIN OF THE
THE BEAUX-ARTS PROGRAM.
DEGREES : Bachelor of Science in Architecture
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to design it that the student will have upon
completion a general liberal education, a practical work-
ing knowledge of Construction, and a systematic and
thorough training in Architectural Design and Composi-
tion. It may be undertaken by students whose artistic
intuition and temperament fit them especially for the
aesthetic side of the architectural profession.
The program is built up around the work in the
draughting-room and atelier, where half of the-student’s
time is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the
Freshman year with the intelligent study of the Orders
and simple problems involving their combination and-
use, and continued in the three following years by means
of minor and major problems involving the planning of
all classes of buildings from the simplest to the most
monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by exer-
cises in the various methods and media of rendering and
by a thorough course in freehand drawing and modelling.
All instruction in planning and composing is based on
correct principles of design.-
The materials and methods of all trades and professions
engaged in building operations are systematically studied
in the Construction classes throughout the four years of
the program. The writing of specifications for each
branch of labor is studied synchronously. Practical work
in the various trades is given that the student may know
good work and thus be able to superintend construction
intelligently. These practical lessons are supplemented
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	77
^by weekly inspection trips to the important building opera-
tions and industries in the neighborhood of the University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used as
supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders, and trusses of all forms are studied and numerous
practical problems solved.
Working drawings and details of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the Construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that graver
problems requiring a deep knowledge of the higher mathe-
matics may well be left to the Architectural Engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures are
given on Estimates, Contracts, Law, Business Relations,
and Professional Ethics and Practice. Architects of high
professional standing will give a number of the lectures
in this course.
The History of Architecture and of the allied Arts is
studied in a course covering three years. The method is
a combination of lectures, recitations, and research.
In the Graduate year advanced work in criticism and
research is done and larger and more complicated prob-
lems are given in Design.
THE ENGINEERING PROGRAM.
DEGREES: Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of Engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limits of one man’s abilities. To be
thorough, the Engineer must specialize. One of his
BULLETIN OE THE
specializations is in Architecture. His services are
needed to frame important buildings, to design their
foundations and to protect adjoining property while
they are in erection. The modern idea of education
is to progress in a course parallel to the world's needs.
The College offers the Program in Architectural Engi-
neering because there is need of the services of the men
who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
should have a bent for Mathematics and for painstaking
exact draughting.
The program of studies differ from that of the Beaux-
Arts program chiefly in that a course in pure and applied
Mathematics is substituted for the courses in English,
Economics and Philosophy; a year in History of Con-
struction for the one in History of Art; and in that a
relatively greater amount of time, increasing each year,
is spent in Construction Design.
Graduate work is spent entirely in solving problems of
the first order in Architectural Engineering.
THE SHORT PROGRAM.
The Short program in Architecture comprises most of
the work that is in the larger programs essentially
architectural. A glance at the schedule will show that
there is relatively fewer recitations and correspondingly
more hours in Design each year than in either of the
complete programs.
SUMMER WORK.
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,
projects, measured drawings or work in an Architect’s
office will be required of all students of Architecture.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
79
Beaux-Arts Program.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	IOI	I	English	3	IOI	I
Hist, of Arch.	2	133	IX	Hist, of Arch. Shades and J	2	133	X
Des. Geom.	3	153	III	Shadows > Perspective J	3	153	III
Construction	2	131	I	Construction	2	*3*	r
Freehand	2	■157	I	Freehand	2	*57	I
El. of Arch.	8	134	XV	El. of Arch.	8	134	XV
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English	3	102	II	English	3	102	II
Construction	2	*3*	II	Construction	2	*3*	II
Physics	3	*38	II	Graphics	3	122	XV
Hist, of Arch.	2	133	XI	Hist, of Arch.	2	134	XII
Freehand	2	157	I	Freehand 1	2	157	I, III
				Modelling J		158	
Pen-and-ink	1	*55	XIII	Water Color	1	155	XI
Design	7	135	XVI	Design	7	135	XVI
JUNIOR YEAR.
Economics	4	IIO	I	Adv. Cons’t’n	4	132	III
Adv. Cons.	4	I32	III	Heat. & Vent.	2	133	VI
Sanitation	2	I32	V	Electricity	1	128	I
				Theory Design	1	135	XIX
Freehand	2	157	II	Freehand. I		*57	II, III
				Modelling J	4	158	
Design	8	135	XVII	Design	8	*35	XVII
SENIOR YEAR.
Ethics	4	95	III	Sociology	4	in	VIII
History of Art	2	*34	XIII	Business Re- lations and { Professional [ Ethics J History of Art	2 1	*33 *34	VII XIII
Freehand	2	158	III	Freehand	2	158	III
Design	12	*35	XVIII	Thesis Design	11	*35	XVIII
8o
BULLETIN OF THE
Engineering Program.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE EOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE EOR DESCRIPTION
		Page	Course			Page^ Cours
Algebra - -	5	113	1.
Des. Geom. -	3	153	in.
Construction	2	131	1.
Freehand - -	2	157	1.
El. of Arch. -	8	134	XV.
Anal. Geom.	5	114	11.
Shades Sh’d’ws 1 Perspective J	3	153	in.
Construction	2	I31	1.
Freehand - -	2	157	1.
El. of Arch. -	8	134	XV.
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus - -	5	114	Hi.	Calculus - -	5	115	IV. V.
Construction	2	131	11.	Construction	2	131	11.
Physics		3	138	11.	Graphics - -	3	122	XV.
Freehand - -	2	157	I.	Freehand -	2	157	I.
Pen-and-ink	1	155	XIII	Water Color	1	155	XI
Design - -	7	T35	XVI.	Design -' -	7	135	XVI.
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anal. Meeh. - Adv. Cons. - Sanitation - Hist, of Arch. Freehand - Design - -	5 2 2 2 1 8	118 132 132 133 J57 135	VIII. in. V. IX. II. xvn.	Analyt Meeh Meeh’s of Mat. Adv. Cons. - Heat. & Vent. Electricity - Hist, of Arch. Design - -	2 3 2 2 1 2 8	118 119 132 133 128 133 135	VIII. X. III. VI. I. - X. XVII.
SENIOR YEAR.
Architectural
Engineering
Hist, of Arch.
Freehand - -
Structural
Design - -
5	132	IV.
2	133	XI.
1	158	III.
12	i35	XVHI.
rchitectural
Engineering
Business RTt’n )
Profess’l Ethics J
Hist, of Arch.
Design-Thesis
5	132	IV.
2	133	VII.
2	133	XII.
II	135	XVIII.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
8l
Short Program in Architecture*
FIRST YEAR*
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Pageu	Course
Descriptive				Shades and J			
Geometry	3	153	III	Shadows L	3	153	III
Construction	2	131	I	Perspective J			
History of				Construction	2	131	I
Architecture	2	133	XI	History of			
Freehand	2	157	I	Architecture	2	133	XI
				Freehand }		157	T TTT
				Modelling j	2		1, 111
Elements of				El. of Arch.	T T	134	XV
Architecture	II	134	XV	Design	J		135	XVI
SECOND YEAR.
Construction	2	I31	II	Construction	2	131	II
Sanitation	2	I32	V	Heating and	2	133	VI
History of				Ventilation			
Architecture	2	133	XI	Graph. Statics	3	122	XV
Physics	3	138	II	Electricitj’	1	128	I
Freehand	4	157	II	T heory Design	1		
Pen-and-ink	1	155	XIII	Freehand	2	157	II
Design	6	135	XVII	Water Color	1	155	XI
				Design	8	135	XVII
College of Law
BULLETIN OF THE
^4
THE COLLEGE OF LAW.
For several years a systematic movement "has been in
•progress under the auspices of the bench and bar of the
•country to elevate the standing and promote the efficiency
•of the legal profession, and make it as learned in fact as
it is in name. The most essential preliminary step to
this end, as lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe
requirements and examinations more comprehensive and
rigorous as a test of qualifications for admission to the
bar. Under the influence largely of the American Bar
Association, the period now commonly prescribed for
£he study of law in a college is three years.
A period of three years study is prescribed for under-
graduates in the College of Law of the University of
Notre Dame. It leads when satisfactorily completed to
the degree Bachelor of Laws. The Graduate course
comprises an additional or fourth year, and leads to the
degree of Master of Laws.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location of the
University for diligent and persevering work, it is possi-
ble for industrious students to do at least a fourth more
in the year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into three
classes, corresponding to each year of the program lead-
ing to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The Graduate
course is for students who have received that degree and
aim at attaining, by further study and practical work, to
a higher grade of proficiency. A full year of study in
-each class is obligatory. Moreover, the student must
pass a satisfactory general examination at the close of
•each scholastic year. Graduates entitled to vote are
admitted to the bar on motion of the Supreme Court of
Indiana.	.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
85
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are-
admitted to the first year on presentation of a cer-
tificate of graduation from some High School accredited
to the State Universities or by examination on subjects
scheduled in any of the programs of the preparatory
school at Notre Dame. Certificates showing that the
candidate has completed subjects required in any of the-
four year programs of the preparatory school at Notre
Dame or of any other reputable preparatory school giv-
ing equivalent courses, will be accepted .in lieu of ex am in -
ations.
Students from other reputable law schools are received,
at any time and allowed due credit for the work prev-
iously done. They must, however, be in residence for
at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice of the
profession or have only been admitted to the bar, as the-
case may be, are admitted to the Senior class and entitled
to the degrees appropriate to their work and standing at
graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS.
Students who do not intend to become candidates for
the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply to add
to their educational acquirements a knowledge of the
fundamental principles of law, may at any time in the
year have their names enrolled on the list of special
students. No extra expense is thereby incurred. Yet
they must be sufficiently advanced in age and education,
to justify the belief that they can understand and appre-
ciate instruction in the law. No particular academic
entry requirement is prescribed for them, aside from
securing the consent of the Director of Studies and being-
of sufficient age and. capacity to understand and profit
by instruction in the law. The number of such stu-
86
BULLETIN OF THE
dents is likely to increase steadily, for year by year it is
becoming more manifest that an education is not com-
plete without a knowledge of at least the elementary
legal principles. Many a person has been forced to do
exactly the contrary of what he intended through his
failure to understand the essential elements of a contract.
Many a one has been compelled to pay heavy damages
for personal injuries caused by negligence, or failure to
perform a duty, or improper performance of it, where
no liability would exist if the law of torts_ had been
known and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION,
The study of cases is usually begun in September and
■continues long enough to enable students to understand,
•analyze and criticise the decisions assigned to them for
study and recitation, lectures aud explanations sup-
plement this work. After thus familiarizing them-
selves with cases, they are expected to read the authori-
ties cited daily in class, whether in the text-books,
lectures or quizzes. In the preparation also of written
theses from month to month, comprising on an average
fifteen pages of legal cap, they must necessarily con-
sult and cite them. In moot-court work, likewise, they
are prepared for actual practice by making a careful
study not only of the cases in the reports, but also of
those cited in text-books and digests.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of the
text-books they studied, and such as have merely
■attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligi-
ble to appear for examination. As many law students
come from States in which this test is applied, the use of
text-books is deemed necessary. The books used by
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
students become peculiarly serviceable in their subse-
quent practice. They may be purchased in the Students’
Office at the lowest retail prices. The cost maybe esti-
mated at {20 or $25 a year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded at
Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination with
text-book work, case readings and daily examinations,
its great value and utility cannot be overestimated. Bach
subject is fully covered by lectures, text-book work,
weekly quiz, monthly thesis, bi-monthly examinations,
the reading of pertinent cases and formal trials in the
moot and other courts of the College.
This course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrious student can
accomplish twice as much in a given time at Notre Dame
as he can in an office or at home. With comparative
immunity from the distractions and temptations of city
life, he can give his entire time to study and necessary
recreation. In short, he can here study a greater num-
“ber of hours and do more class work day by day than
probably anywhere else in the entire country.
Students have from three to four recitations daily
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. From one to two hours additional
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
four hours weekly are required for moot-court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this
society and the moot-court offer exceptional opportunity
and strong incentive to acquire readiness in debate,
fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much
benefit may be derived from attending the regular classes
in elocution and oratory in the College of Arts and
Betters.
When a subject is regularly begun in the Taw Program
88
BULLETIN OE THE
it is studied and kept before the class, with recitations
day by day at the same hour, until finished. It is
believed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would be
if frequently interrupted by the intervention of other and
dissimilar subjects.
THE MOOT COURTS.
All students are required to attend and participate in
the exercises of the moot-court. Students of the first
year are expected to serve on juries and as witnesses,
while those of the second year assist the Seniors and
Graduates in the conduct of trials. The court is.
fully organized, having a judge, clerk, state’s attorney,
sheriff, coroner and reporter. Pleadings are filed in the-
clerk’s office, served and returned by the sheriff, brought
to an issue with due formality by the attorneys, and the
trial proceeds under the rules of evidence before a mem-
ber of the Faculty, acting as judge.
In addition to the moot-court, which corresponds to
the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully equip-
ped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk, master-
in-chancery, bailiff and reporter.	'
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.	-
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its dis-
trict judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter..
The course of procedure in these courts follows as;
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in
their work. The statement of facts in the cases to be
tried are furnished by the Faculty. Students acquire in
this way a knowledge of the customary procedure in the
regular courts.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
89
THE LAW LIBRARY.
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Danie, but it may well be questioned whether any
of them shows more care in the choice of books, or is
better adapted for the use of students. All the latest
reports of State and Federal courts are on its shelves,
and no difficulty is experienced at any time in finding
the cases needed for reference, thesis writing and moot-
court work. A great library, with a crowdingly large
attendance of students—too many to be personally
known by or have personal attention from the Faculty—
may often be less available for use or accessible than a
comparatively small one. It happens sometimes in such
cases that twenty or more students are found vainly scram-
bling at the same time to secure possession of a particular
report or text-book. Such experience fortunately does
not fall to the lot of the young men studying at Notre
Dame. Not only all the latest reports, but likewise the
leading text-books, are to be found on the library
shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in moot-
court trials, but must not be carried to private rooms,
nor hidden in desks. This rule is rigidly enforced by
the librarian. It is intended for the advantage and to
facilitate the work of the students in common, tor all
have a right to feel reasonably certain that when a book
is needed it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the Faw library number
3,500, but so carefully have they been selected that
they may be said to surpass in practical utility many
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the
law lecture room. It is open practically all day and
until 9:30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation
90
BULLETIN OF THE
are excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable hours
to law students. .The library privileges are on a gener-
ous scale, and students are not specially charged for
making proper use of the books, although otherwise if a
book be lost or injured through negligence.
' THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings on Wednesday evenings. All students
of the College are members of it. They are required,
each in his turn, to participate in its debates and other
exercises. The debates commonly deal with questions
germane to the law, but subjects of history, political
economy, and the like, are also discussed . An excellent
opportunity is afforded at the meetings of the society to
develop skill, power and fluency in public speaking. One
of the professors usually presides and aids the members
with his counsel aud suggestions. A Parliamentary Law
meeting, with exercises in elocution and debating, takes
place each Wednesday afternoon.
For expenses for tuition, board, lodging, etc., see pages 33, . 4.
&
LAW PR
FIRST YEAR	SECOND YEAR
TEXT-BOOKS: Kent's
Commentaries ( A bridged)
Reed's Rules of Order,
or Waples' Parliamentary
Law, Natural Law and
Legal Ethics,
Persons and Domestic Re-
lations.
Contracts.
Torts, or Private Wrongs.
Criminal Daw, or Public
Wrongs.
Property, Real and Personal.
Forensic Medicine, or Med-
ical Jurisprudence and
Toxicology.
TEXT-BOOK: Black-
stone's Commentaries
[Abridged).
Criminal Procedure.
Corporations, — Private
and Public, or Muni-
cipal.
Partnership.
Agency.
Sales.
Bailments and Carriers.
Insurance, ■— Fire, Rife,
Accident, Marine.
Common Raw Pleading
and Practice.
OGRAM.
THIRD YEAR
GRADUATE YEAR
TEXT-BOOK: Robin-
son's Elements of
Amer i canjurisprudence
Equity Pleading and
Practice.
Code Pleading.
Evidence.
Damages.
Bills, Notes and Checks.
Suretyship and Guaranty.
Equity Jurisprudence.
Wills, Executors and Ad-
ministrators.
Constitutional Law.
International Law.
The State and Federal
Courts and their Respec-
tive Functions.
The Roman Law.
The Law of Admiralty.
Mines, Mining and Water
Rights.
Copyright, Patents and
Trademarks.
Trusts and Trustees.
Interpretation and Con-
struction of Statutes.
Statutes of State and Fed-
eral Statutes.
Powers and Functions of
Masters in Chancery,
Referees, Sheriffs, Coro-
ners, Justices of the
Peace, United States
Commissioners, Arbitra-
tors, and Receivers,
Courses of Instruction
94
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN PHILOSOPHY.
I.
(a) Physiological Psychology—This course is a fairly
comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of con-
sciousness.
(#) Experimental and Descriptive Psychology—The
primary laws of consciousness.
(^) Rational Psychology—The problems of the mind.
Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive. Lectures three
hours a week for two terms.*]
(W) Laboratory Exercises — Experiments will be con-
ducted with special reference to their value as aids to
introspection. Sandford’s Course in Experimental Psy-
chology.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) Elements of Epistemology—A study of the Scho-
lastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teachings of
Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant and
Spencer.
(This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and General
Metaphysics and will be given at the beginning of the year during
the time prescribed for these studies. )
(^) Logic—Hyslop’s Elements of Logic.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(cj General Metaphysics—Transcendental concepts:
their value in different systems of Philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one term.].
* In the description of courses in all the Colleges a ‘ ‘ term ’ ’
means four and one-half months.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
95
(W) Cosmology — The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(<?) Theodicy — The existence of God; His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(/) Student Discussions — From time to time through-
out the year students will be required to read and discuss
papers on various subjects in the field of philosophic
inquiry.
III.
(«) Ethics — The theory of Morals, with special refer-
ence to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(£) Outlines of the History of Philosophy—Turner’s
History of Philosophy.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Graduate Work in Philosophy — Graduate work in
the department of Philosophy, leading to the degree
of Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students
who have pursued the courses described above. Candi-
dates who have made undergraduate studies elsewhere
must give evidence of ability to begin specializing at
once. In the first and second years, research work will
be conducted in the seminar and the psychological labor-
atory. In the last year, students will have the benefit of
frequent consultation with the professors.
96
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN GREEK.
I.
Lysias — Orations selected. Short history of the Attic
orators.
Homer — Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Kpitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., V. Stoffel.
[Pour hours a week for one term.)
-^11~.
Lysias — Orations selected.
Homer — Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St.John Chrysostom—Lutropius.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
III.
Herodotus—Selections. Study of Herodotus dialect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Basil—De Profanis Scriptoribus.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Herodotus — Selections.
Selections from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Gregory—Machabees.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
_	V.
Demosthenes—The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics. Review of the political
situation at Athens and events bearing upon the ora-
tions.
Thucydides—Book I. Greece before the Pelopon-
nesian War. Importance of this war in Greek history.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	97
The speeches will form the subjects for special class
interpretations. Stylistic differences between pure Attic
and archaic Attic will be pointed out.
During this course special attention will be given
to textual and exegetical criticism, practically shown
by passages selected for that purpose. This is done
in the belief that it is the best way to make stu-
dents appreciate the notes in school editions of classical’
’ authors.
Practical Exercises — Embodying idiomatic expressions
of the authors read.
[Pour hours a week for one term J
VI.
Aeschylus—One play to vary each year. In connec-
tion with it will be discussed the origin of the drama,
the part of the chorus in the early tragedy and the reli-
gious tenet of Aeschylus. The structure of a Greek
tragedy, the iambic trimeter and the lyric meters will be
sufficiently explained so as to be properly appreciated by
the students. Incidentally also the Greek festivals, at
which the plays were staged, and the Dionysiac theater
will be discussed.
Sophocles—Oedipus Tyrannus and Antigone. Digest
of the Theban legends. Religious views of Sophocles
compared with those of Aeschylus.
Elements of Greek Literature—Students shall use
Jebb’s Primer of Greek Literature.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Euripides—-One play, to vary each year. Religious
tendencies of Euripides. His style as compared with
that of Aeschylus and Sophocles. His dramatic art, and
his right to the title of “ Scenic Philosopher.” .
98
BULLETIN OF THE
Aristophanes — One play, selected from the following
list: The Acharnians, the Knights, the Progs, the Clouds,
the Birds, or the Wasps. In connection with the reading
of these plays will be treated the Greek Comedy,—its
origin, nature, and aim. Aristophanes, the great bur-
lesque critic of Athenian life and manners. The structure
of a comedy compared with that of a tragedy.
Practical Exercises in Greek Composition.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Pindar — Selected Odes, in connection with which the
public games will be studied. Elective.
Greek Fathers—St. Basil—The Martyr Gordius. St.John
Chrysostom—The Return of Bishop Flavian. St. Greg-
ory Nazianzen — Funeral Oration of Caesarius. Elective.
Plato—Apology and Crito. Socrates,—his friends
and enemies. Athenian court-proceedings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Greek—Advanced courses of in-
struction in the Greek language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who look forward to the
Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work will be
the Greek Seminar, devoted to the interpretation of pas-
sages selected for that purpose by the Director of the
Seminar, and to a critical study of one particular author
or of a group of authors in the same department of Greek
literature ; as, for instance, Homer, Plato, or the Orators,
the Historians, the Dramatists, etc.
The work of the Seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of Comparative Philology, on
Comparative Grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
For those who desire a broader basis for their linguistic
studies, an elementary course in Sanskrit will be offered.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
99
COURSES IN LATIN*
I.	.
Livy — Book XXI. Study of Livy’s grammar and
style.
Cicero — Epistles selected.
Prose Composition.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Livy —Book XXII.
Cicero —De Senectute and De Amicitia.
Pliny—Epistles selected.
Prose Composition. Writing of continuous prose.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
III.
Cicero — De Or at ore. Book I.
Horace—Odes and Epodes. Study of Metrical Systems ;
Peculiarities of Style; Plan of Composition; Comparison
with Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[Eour hours a week for one term.]
IV.	.
Tacitus—Dialogus De Oratoribus.
Horace—Odes and Epodes; or, Satires selected. See
Course III.	•
Terence—Phormio. Short history of Greek and Roman
comedy.
Advanced Latin Prose Composition.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
V.
Livy — Roman History, First Book. In the reading
of the text particular attention is called to the rules of
IOO
BULLETIN OF THE
syntax—roots and derivation of words—and the ancient
history, geography and mythology.
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases or
original. Short fables and stories.
Horace —Fpistula ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
criticised from a philological and literary standpoint.
Ancient Literature—Historians and Lyric Poets : their
lives, their works, their genins.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Tacitus—Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
»
Terence — Andria. Sight reading.
Horace—The Literary Fpistles.
Weekly practice in written Composition, Latin Con-
versation and Versification.
Ancient Literature—Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Quintilian—De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth and
Twelfth. Translation. The explanation embraces a literary
criticism of Grecian and Roman Orators, and practical
remarks on Latin idioms and the fine arts of Antiquity.
Short Orations or Dissertations, and practical Conver-
sations take place weekly.
Plautus — Captivi. The study of the play gives a full
knowledge of the characters, the plot, and the style, the
archaic forms, and the construction peculiar to the
author.
Ancient Literature—Orators, especially Demosthenes
and Cicero.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IOI
VIII.
Cicero — De Officiis. * Partly sight reading. Besides
the study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of
Grecian Philosophy, and continual reference is made to
Course III. in Philosophy.	.
Oratorical and Philosophical Compositions alternate
weekly. Latin Conversation on general topics.
Lucretius — De Rerum Natura. Select passages. Syn-
opsis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous
philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the
errors»of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature—Philosophers, particularly Socrates,
Plato and Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Latin—Advancd courses of instruc-
tion in the Latin language and literature will be pro-
vided for graduate students who are candidates for the
degree of Master or Doctor. The work will be directed
in the Seminar and be devoted to a critical study of one
particular author or group of authors.
The work of the Seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on Comparative Philology and Comparative
Grammar.
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
I. '
(A) Prose Forms—Special treatment of Exposition
and Argumentation. Genung’s Working Principles of
Rhetoric, Part II.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
102
BULLETIN OF THE
(#) Heydrick’s How to Study Literature, with prac-
tical exercises in analysis of literary forms.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(c) Literature — Higginson and Boynton's. In this
course the student acquires a good knowledge of the
contents of American literature. The Biography of men
of letters is also a part of this course.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
(d} Lyric Poetry—The technique is carefully laid
down and choice specimens of lyric poetry are read
critically in class. There is much required reading.
[One hour a week for one term.] “
II.
(a) Prose Forms—Special Study of the Novel and
the Short Story. The development of the novel is care-
fully studied, and its kinship with other forms of narrative
is pointed out.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(V) Literature—The Development of English Litera-
ture is studied, minute attention being given to great
periods.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
The Sonnet—Technique and analysis of famous
sonnets.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
III.
(a)	Prose Forms—Intensive study of the Essay and
the Oration. Each student in this course is required to
read the great essays and orations in English literature.
He must produce four essays and two orations during
the term.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IO3
(	b) Literature—Recent English, and American Poetry.
This course deals not only with the best work done in
recent volumes of collected verse, but also takes account
of the best fugitive pieces in the magazines.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(F)	Didactic Poetry and Satire—This course involves
reading chiefly.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IV.
ty) The Laws of the Epic and the Drama—Ker’s
treatise on the Epic with required readings in narrative
poetry. Frey tag’s Techniqtte of the Drama} with sup-
plementary notes.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(£) Shakespeare—Reading and Analysis of Plays.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(jf The Leading Poets of the Nineteenth Century —
Analytical study and required reading.
a [One hour a week for two terms.]
V.
Graduate Work in English—Students wishing to do
advanced work in English will be provided with library
facilities and led through the usual work for the degree
of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Faculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form or
epoch, or a5 comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by the professors make up the course.
104
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN GERMAN.
I.
Grammar, Joy nes-Meissner, Part I. Translation from
German into English of simple prose; translation of
English exercises into German. Reading of short stories
and selections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part II. Translation into
German of narrative prose and selections from history.
Sight reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorethea (Goethe'} ; Lichtenstein {Hauff}.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part III. Sight reading
of plays, poems and prose writings. Translations of
selections from history and literature; original,essays.
Minna von Barnhelm {Lessing} ; Best known poems,
{Heine} ; Correspondence {Schiller-Goethe}.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ROMANCE LANGUAGES.
These Courses include the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal
special attention wull be paid to Philosophy.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	105
COURSES IN FRENCH.
I.
Grammar with, written and oral exercises ; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs ; the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Reading three of the following works: French by
Reading, {Houghton). La Tache du Petit Pierre, {Mai-
ret). Un Cas de Conscience, {Gervais). La Main Mal-
heureuse, {Guerber). Sans Famille, {Maloti). .Readings
from French history, {Super).	*
[Five hours a week for two terms.] _
II.	-
Advanced grammar with composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Dictations and conversations on practical
topics, and careful reading of three or four of the fol-
lowing works : Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, {Labiche).
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, {Feuillet.) Fables
choisies, {La Fontaine). Le Medecin Malgre Lui,
{Moliere). Le Cid, {Corneille). Fsther, {Racine.) Pages
oubliees de {Chateaubriand). La Question d’Argent,
{Dumas). Standard French Authors, {Guerlac.)
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study in this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes com-
position, conversation, history and general view of
French literature. Besides a translation and criticism
of the best writers such as; Causeries du Lundi, (Ste.
Beuve). On Rend 1’ Argent, {Coppee). Hernani, {Hugo).
Meditations. {Lamartine). Athalie. {Racine). L’Avare,
io6
BULLETIN OF THE
(JWoliere'). Mlle, de la Seigliere, (Sandean"). Les
Origines de la France Contemporaine, (Paine). Ex-
pedition de Bonapart en Egypte, (Thier). Ste. Elisa-
beth. de Hongrie, (Montalembert.) Histoire de la
Literature Frangaise, (Dzcvab).
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
W
COURSES IN SPANISH.
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition. Trans-
lation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero,
Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego, and
Iriavte.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Spanish Prose and Poetrjr of the eighteenth and nine-
teenth centuries, with composition and the history of
the Eiterature of the period.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries :
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the Lit-
erature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
t
Early Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
Literature of the fifteenth century.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
107
COURSES IN ITALIAN.
A two-years’ course. The chief work of the courses
is a critical study of Dante’s Divina Commedia. Readings
from Tasso, Petrarca, Ariosto’s Satires and Manzoni.
W
COURSES IN PORTUGUESE.
I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, {Wall). Read-
ings : Perfil do marquez de Pombal, {Camillo Castello
Branco'). Novellas Historicas, {Pinheiro Chagas). Len-
das e narrativas, {Herciclano). Campo de flores-, {/oao de
Deus).
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Sermoes, {Padre Antonio Vieira). Os Lusiadas, {Cam-
oes) . History of Portuguese literature.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
♦
COURSES IN OLD FRENCH.
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying
the formation of the French language from the popular
Latin. For this purpose a work like Bracket’s Grammaire
Historique will be studied. It is under this point of view
that Old French authors will be read, especially La
Chanson de Roland.	■
(/) ' ’
COURSES IN PROVENCAL.
Language and Literature, with reading from the works
of the Troubadours.
io8
BULLETIN OE THE
COURSES IN HISTORY.
ANCIENT HISTORY.
I.
(a) Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of the
Hellenic world. Readings, and examinations on required
texts. This course is given in alternate years with
Course I. (#)
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(£) Ancient Rome to the Barbarian invasions. Read-
ings, and examinations of required texts. This course
is given in alternate years with Course I. {a)
In both courses, the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges’ The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY.
II.	'
(«) The History of the Middle Ages from the invasion
of the barbarians, and the history of the periods of the
Renaissance and the Reformation of 1603. Readings,
and examinations on required texts.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b') The General History of Europe from the begin-
ning of the seventeenth century to the present time.
Readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term.] .
III.
The History of the British Isles to the Revolution in
1689— For the narrative Gardiner’s Students' History
is used as a text and is supplemented by lectures.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
IO9
In the study of the development of political institu-
tions Feilden’s Constitutional History is used. In addi-
tion students shall make free use of the library in
preparing special topics upon which they shall report
orally in class.
■	[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY.
IV.
(a) American History from its beginning to 1763—
A large part of the work of this and the following course
consists in the preparation and presentation in class
of special topics by the students. An effort will be made
to train the student in the use of original sources as well
as in the discriminating use of secondary works. Weekly
written tests are given upon the lectures and the
assigned collateral reading.	,
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(b} American History from 1763 to the Present Time
—Treatment as in (a) above. Also a book review, a
bibliographical report and a bibliographical essay by
each student.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Research Work in History—Facilities are offered
to graduate students who wish to do advanced work in
History leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s degree.
Bvidence to begin specializing must be given by candi-
dates who have received their Bachelor’s degree at
another College. The work is directed in the Seminar
and is supplemented by lectures.
IIO
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE.
W
ECONOMICS.
I.
The Elements of Economics, viz.:—Land, Human
Lxertions and Capital; Value, Money and Credit; Rent,
Interest, Profit and Wages; Population and Con-
sumption. The text-book used is Walker’s Manual of
Political Economy.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
II.
Industrial History and the history of Economic
Thought. Readings, lectures and examinations on
required texts.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
III.
Money, Credit and Banking, with special treat-
ment of the monetary experiences of the United States.
Lectures, readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Distribution—A course covering the Land and Labor
Questions and Socialism. Lectures, readings, and ex-
aminations on required texts.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
w
POLITICS.
The Elements of Politics—Lectures and examin-
ations on required texts.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY .OF NOTRE DAME.
Ill
VI.
The American Constitution and Political Institu-
tions. Lectures, readings, and examinations on required
texts.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Jurisprudence— A course covering (a) the outlines
of the Science of Law. ( b ) The elements of
International Law,, and (c) Lectures on selected topics
of Roman and Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and
examinations on required texts.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
SOCIAL SCIENCE.
VIII.
The Elements of Sociology—Lectures, readings, and
examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Political Science—Advanced courses
in Economics, Politics and Sociology are provided for
graduate students who wish to receive the degree of
Master or Doctor.
COURSES IN ELOCUTION AND ORATORY.
I.
Readings and Declamations — This course is designed
to. correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Lach
student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week* for one term.]
112
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
Continuation of Course!*—Bach student is required
to give three declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
III.
Practical Elocution—Exercises in breathing, voice
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation and
emphasis and their application in the reading of selec-
tions. Text-book, Eulton and Trueblood’s Practical
Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Continuation of Course III.— Further exercises in
breathing, voice culture, action. Quality, Force, Pitch
and Time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures
on the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and
Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Oral Discussions—The application of Formal Logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and a
course in Logic are required for admission to this course.
Sections are limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Shakesperian Reading—The critical and artistic read-
ing of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with stage
action. The students present the play by scenes before
the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for admis-
sion to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-four
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	113
students. This course alternates with Course VII.
described below.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VII.
Oratory — A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Bach student is required to write and
d.eliver a biographical oration on one of the great orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III. and
IV. above, and Course I. in English are required for
.admission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-
four students. This course alternates with Course VI.
described above.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Assembly Work—This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists
of debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptus and drill work in parliamentary law.
[One hour a week for four terms.]
COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
I.
Algebra — This course includes a study of the binom-
ial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then fol-
lows a thorough study of the general properties and
solution of equations, embracing the subjects of deriva-
tives, transformation, detached coefficients, surd and
imaginary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem; Horner’s method; roots of complex
114
BULLETIN OB THE
number and trigonometric solution of cubic equations.
Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Geometry—This course includes a study of
the point and right line ; conic sections, their equa-
tions and properties ; discussion of the general equation
of the second degree containing two variables; higher
plane curves, equations of the third degree; different
systems of coordinates; transformation of coordinates;
spirals; an elementary course in geometry of three
dimensions, embracing the point, straight line, plane,
and surfaces of revolution; transformation of coor-
dinates ; quadric surfaces and supplementary propo-
sitions. Text-books, Bailey, Wood.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Calculus Differential—This course, as also Courses
IV. and V., is designed to meet the requirements
of engineering students. It includes a study by the
methods for the differentiation of algebraic, logarith-
mic and exponential, trigonometric, and inverse trig-
onometric functions; successive differentiation and differ-
ential coefficients; treatment of implicit and compound
functions; expansion of functions ; indeterminate forms ;
partial differential coefficients of the first order and of
higher orders; direction of curvature ; radius of curva-
ture ; envelopes; singular points of curves, maxima and
minima of functions of one independent variable, and
.of several independent valuables; tracing curves, differ-
entials of arcs, plane areas, surfaces and volumes of
revolution. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	115
IV.
Calculus Integral — Integration of elementary forms
and of rational fractions; integration by rationaliza-
tion and by parts; successive integration; multiple
integrals ; definite integrals, limits of integration ; double
integration applied to plane areas; rectification of plane
curves ; quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revo-
lution ; surface and volume of any solid ; intrinsic equa-
tion of a curve. This course is supplemented by numer-
ous exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborne.
[Vive hours a week for three months.]
V.
Differential Equations—An elementary course for
engineering students, supplementary to the course of
Integral Calculus. It embraces: equations of the first
order and first degree; equations of the first order but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equa-
tions with higher orders. Numerous applications to
Mechanics and Physics are introduced during the course.
Text-book, Murray.
[Vive hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Advanced Work—The prescribed courses in Pure
Mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students required to constitute a class in
any one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal,
(b) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunler, Lock,
(d) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Advanced Calculus,
Il6	BULLETIN OF THE
JByerly, Todhunter, Williamson. Qf') Advanced Analytic
Geometry, Salmon. (gj Analytic Geometry of Three
Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon. (Ji} Quaternions,
Hardy with Kelland and, Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
COURSES IN CIVIL ENGINEERING.
I.
Descriptive Geometry — In this course are considered
problems on the point, right line, and plane; single
curved, double curved, and warped surfaces; problems
relating to tangent planes, to single curved, double curved,
and warped surfaces ; intersection of surfaces by planes,
tangencies, development of surfaces; spherical projec-
tions ; orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylindrical,
.and conic projections; construction of maps, shades and
shadows; linear perspective; isometric projections;
theory and plates. Numerous practical problems and
exercises requiring the application of the principles of
Descriptive Geometry, are added by the instructor.
'Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
*
Surveying—This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
■of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions ; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land;
dividing up land; Public Lands survey. Text-book,
Gillespie.
[Dive hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	II/
III.
Surveying;—Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field ; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in
the class room ; practice in keeping field notes; compu-
tation and plots.
[Five hours a week for six weeks J
IV.	‘
Higher Surveying — This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit
and stadia; mining surveying; mining claims; survey
of mines with shafts and drifts; determining positions
of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface; theory of
hydrographic and city surveying; geodetic surveying
and leveling; measuring base lines; adjustments of
angles, triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude and azi-
muth ; time and longitude; changing mean time into-
sidereal time* and sidereal time to mean time. Texf-booky
Johnson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Surveying — Exercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the field, leveling ; practice in hydro-
graphic surveying.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Railroad Surveying — This course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
ii8
BUBLBTIN OF THE
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets ; obstacles to location of curves; special
problems in curves; theory of compound curves; turn-
outs and crossings; curving the rail on curves and eleva-
tion of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical
curves; earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory of
excavation and embankment; correction in excavation
on curves; cross-section leveling; theory of the tran-
sition curve and practical applications. Text-books,
Searle* Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Railroad Surveying—Bxercises in the field; stak-
ing out and running tangents, simple, compound and
transition curves; execution on the ground of many
problems previously treated theoretically; survey for a
short line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and
setting slope stakes; making profiles and maps; calcu-
lating the necessary excavations .and embankments and
cost of construction; culverts.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics—The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied Mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics, and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
students to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics consid-
ered in this course are: work, energy, conservation of
energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia, ac-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	119
celeration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc.
Text-book, Zivoet.
(Required of students in Civil, Electrical, and Mechani-
cal Engineering.
[Five hours a week for first term. Two hours a week
for second term.]
IX.
Geodesy—This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil Engineering students in the Junior year, and
comprises a study of the instruments and methods of
observation, base measurements and field work of the
triangulation; method of least squares, elementary
course; calculation of the triangulation, and theory of
probable errors; geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and
azimuths. This is followed by a brief discussion of the
figure of the earth. Text-book, Merriman
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Mechanics of Materials—This course is intended to
meet the requirements of engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of
forces on beams and structures, to design, economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of the
materials of engineering, their properties and methods
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and continu-
ous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns are
examined according to Euler’s, Rankine’s, and other
formulae, and results compared. .Some of the other sub-
jects considered in this course, are torsion of shafts, the
120
BULLETIN OB THE
transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and
torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams, reinforced
concrete beams, plate girders and other forms. Then is
studied the subjects, resilience and work, impact and
fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal tension and
flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,—the course clos-
ing with a study of the mathematical theory of'elasticity.
Text-book, Merriman.
{Required of students in Civil, Electrical, and Mechani-
cal Engineering I)
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements—This course is intended to
familiarize the student with the practical details of lay-
ing out and constructing highways, the method of drain-
age, grading, and most suitable road covering, the
improvement of streets in cities and materials used for
paving and covering. The manner of preparing the
street before the paving is placed in position is fully
considered and illustrated. The course includes a
thorough discussion of the theory of pavements and a
description of the various materials used such as cobble
and stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood, and broken stone
pavements. The method of preparing plans and speci-
fications for the various conditions arising are considered
and original plans are prepared by students. Attention
is also given to the construction of street-car tracks in
paved streets. Text-book, Baker.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering—This course is taken by students of
Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
121
best approved methods of constructing engineering
works and the styles of structures suitable for different
localities. The study is quite comprehensive including
the general theory of the arch and application to the
voussoir arch ; the theory of earth pressure, and the
design of retaining walls; foundations suitable for struc-
tures of various classes in connection with which the
student becomes acquainted, not only with the methods
for ascertaining the bearing power of the foundation,
but also the means for constructing deep foundations.
The methods for tunnel construction, sewer construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included in
the course and given by text-book and lectures. The
part pertaining to masonry construction includes a study
of the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the manner of
testing, foundations under water, the crib and open
caisson process, the pneumatic process, the theory of
masonry arches and design, arch centers, selection of
site for bridge piers and arrangement of spans, the de-
tails of construction of bridge piers and manner of loca-
tion, specifications for masonry, etc. Text-books, Howe,
Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering—This course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts ; shape, material and calcula-
tion of sewers ; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation ;
separate and combined systems compared; pollution of
rivers ; chemical precipitation; results and costs of puri-
fication ; general municipal and domestic sanitation; in-
spection of neighboring works. Text-book, Staley and
Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
122
BULLETIN OF THE
XIV.
Bridges and Roofs—This course comprises a study
of the different systems of trussed bridges and roof
trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced when
loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure and
the effect of wind included. Both graphical and analyt-
ical methods are used. Besides the various systems of
trussed bridges, which are studied in detail, the plate
girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges, draw
bridges, and roofs of various designs are given equal
attention; the purpose being to familiarize the student
with the different forms and enable him to design
and to estimate the cost of construction. Text-book,
Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Graphical Statics — This course teaches the determ-
ination of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically determ-
ined by the application of the principles of the force and
equilibrium polygons ; also the determination of stresses
in bridge trusses with parallel chords and with broken
chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive-wheel
loads ; graphical determination of stresses in roof trusses,
graphical treatment of the arch, symmetrical and un-
symmetrical cases; graphical method of arch-ribs of
hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams; tem-
perature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied to
continuous girders. This course is supplemented by
full explanations, notes, examples, and problems. Text-
book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	123
XVI.
Hydromechanics — This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrody-
namics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects submitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes ; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem with
friction; Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over
weirs, and through tubes ; flow in pipes ; loss of head in
in friction and other losses; flow in conduits, canals,
and rivers; velocities in cross sections; methods of
gauging the flow, measurement of water power, dynamic
pressure of flowing water ; designing of waterworks and
standpipes; hydraulic motors and relative merits; dis-
cussion of water wheels of different types, and a study
of the conditions determining high efficiencies; classifi-
cation of turbines, and a complete study and discussion
of the different forms. Text-book, Merriman.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Thermodynamics — The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
.applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refrig-
erating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in
detail. Frequent reference is made to trade catalogues,
of which an abundant supply should be obtained by the
student. Text-book, The Steam Engine, by Holmes.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
124
BULLETIN OK THE
II.
Materials of Engineering — This course, supplement-
ed by shop work and laboratory work in testing materials
of construction, is designed for the purpose of
acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact. The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up and estimates of the cost
of construction at market prices complete the work.
Thurston’s Materials of Engineering is the text-book
used.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Steam Engine Design — In this course the forms and*
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines
for specific work are taken up, giving the student
a thorough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest
researches and contemporary practice may be consulted
in the numerous publications found in the University
Library. During the first term of the Senior year is
required the complete design with working drawings of
a simple non-condensing steam engine for a specific pur-
pose. The second term is given to designing a multiple-
expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine
service. The text-book used is Whitham’s Steam Engine
Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers — This subject is treated much as that
of Course III, The determination of sizes of parts
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	125
from considerations of strains, thickness of shells, size
of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of con-
nection of boilers with efficiency of furnaces and life of
boiler, are some of the subjects considered. The method
of determining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface,
heights of chimneys, boiler settings and materials used
in construction are also discussed. Text-book, Steam
Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Kinematics — This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining
of the parts to move in these paths. The general theory
is then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative
motion of machine parts and kinematic trains, belts,
pulleys, speed cones, link work and other aggregate
combinations. Barr’s Kinematics of Machinery is the
text-book used.
[Three hours recitation and two hours drawing a week
for one term.]
VI.
Machine Design — This work involves a study of
the form and strength of machine parts as applied in
designing, with computation of dimensions for fastenings,
bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc.
The derivation of rational formulae and the determination
of empirical formulae are included and applied in design-
ing. The text-books used are Unwin’s Elements of
Machine Design, Low’s Handbook for Mechanical Engi-
neers and Reed’s Machine Design and Drazving.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
126
BULLETIN OF TELE
VII.
■ Valve Gears—This course includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, 'Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are
treated in the same way and in conclusion the student is
made familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text-book is
Halsey’s Val-ve. Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory—The work taken up includes
a study of the methods of testing the steam engine
under varying running conditions, valve setting, cali-
bration of thermometers, gauges and indicator springs,
use of Prony brake, Weber and Bmerson djmamometers,
Pelton water wheel, Wier calibration, etc. Text-book,
Carpenter’s Experimental Engineering.
[One afternoon each week for one term.]
IX.
Hydraulics—The object of this course is to give such
information in regard to modern turbines and their
installation as is necessary to the hydraulic engineer in
designing a water power plant without going into the
details of turbine wheel designing. Text-book, Thurso’s
Modern Turbine Practice. (Required of Seniors in
Mechanical and Electrical Engineering.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Steam Engines and Boilers—A brief course in the
study of boilers and steam engines designed to famil-
iarize the student with the different* types in use and,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	127
their respective merits. Only that theory is taken up
which is necessary to the working out of practical prob-
lems, the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission', by Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Gas and Vapor Engines—This course, extending over
two terms, is given to a general descriptive study of all the
types of gas engines and explosive motors. The general
construction of gas, oil and vapor engines is studied
together with their adaptation to various uses. Results
due to change in ignition, compression and variation of
working fluid; methods of speed regulation and govern-
ment and the details of auxiliaries as, pumps, carburetters,
hot tubes, batteries, spark coils and dynamos are dwelt
upon. The text-book used is Gas, Oil and Vapor
Engines, by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Design — A complete study of the ther-
modynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-book,
lectures and drawing board. The major subjects taken
up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due to gas
pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine parts.
Rucke’s Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours recitation and ten hours drawing
a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Construction — The complete working up
from rough castings and forgings of a small type of
gas engine. This is part of the thesis work for students
128
BULLETIN OE THE
in the Short Program and requires the complete machin-
ing and assembling of the engine and must be preceded
by Courses XI. and XII.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Gas Engine Laboratory — Indicator practice, commer-
cial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regulation.
Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction, car-
buretters and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed
by student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
Thesis — Each candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Engineering must present for graduation a thesis of con-
siderable magnitude which will exhibit his knowledge of
the course he has followed. It may embrace designing,
experimental investigation or original research in a
subject selected by the student and approved by the
professor. The major part of the second term, Senior
year, is devoted to this work, and graduation is con-
ditional upon the knowledge of Mechanical Engineering
displayed in its preparation.
COURSES IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Applied Electricity—A course of lectures and reci-
tations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on the
general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
application to practical work, as follows : Setting up and
testing primary and secondary batteries, systems of call
bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire and burglar
alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switchboards and
accessories. Experiments with induction coils, magnets,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
129
switches, voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges,
galvanometers and other measuring instruments. -The
study of direct current generators and motors, arc and
incandescent lighting systems, street railway machinery
and appliances, electric heating and forging, electrolytic
processes, etc. Text-book, Swoope’s Practical Electricity.
(Students in Architecture spend one term in this course.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
'	II.
Applied Electricity—Lectures and laboratory work
on the construction and testing of switches, magnets,
measuring instruments, induction coils, etc. The cal-
culation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for
lighting and power, the experimental study of alternating
current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the fitting
and finishing, winding' and adjusting, and finally testing
for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to special pur-
poses. This course must be preceded by Course I.
(Courses I. and II. are required in the Short Program in
Electrical Engineering ; they are elective for general students
and those studying telegraphy.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery— Recitations on the phys-
ical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions and
■ reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points,
theory of armature winding, the mathematical theory
of alternating currents, phase relations, modern forms
of single phase and multiphase generators and motors,
design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon’s Dynamo
130
BULLETIN OE THE
Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason’s Alternating
Currents.
[Vive hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Electrical Laboratory — Practical work at wiring build-
ings for lights and power, testing circuits for insula-
tion and grounds, construction and operation of storage
batteries, management and care of dynamos, charac-
teristic curves of particular machines under different
conditions, efficiency tests of motors by absorption
dynamometer methods, alternating current dynamo and
transformer tests, the testing of storage batteries, and
complete plant-efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken.
[Vive hours a week for two terms.]
Designing —	of working
drawings of switches, resistance, and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of
circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawings of
direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN SHOPWORK.
(Jn the description of the following courses an “hour"
means two sixty minute periods in the shop.)
(a) Woodwork — Exercises in planing, splicing fram-
ing, scroll-sawing and turning.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
I3i
( Applications of Carpentry to pattern-making, cores
etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints, cranks
and bearings.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(ri) Foundry Practice — Setting up and drawing simple
and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating and
pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(ri) Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(ri) Benchwork in iron, including surface-chipping,
key-setting, draw-filing, scraping and polishing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(/) Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shafting and
milling machines. Construction of machine tools,
reamers, taps, twist-drills, gear wheels and complete
machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ARCHITECTURE.
I. and II.
Construction — In these courses the student obtains
a thorough knowledge of the materials and methods of
the mason’s, carpenter’s, metal worker’s and painter’s
trades. Bach trade is considered separately, and at con-
clusion an exhaustive study of specification writing and
methods of estimating for it is made. The University
constantly furnishes employment to a large force of
trained mechanics who will give personal lessons to the
132
BULLETIN OE THE
student in all branches of these trades. Inspection visits
are made weekly, as a supplementary exercise in super-
intendence, to important building operations in the
neighborhood. Detail drawings of constructive methods
are made exactly as in an architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on the campus one of his pro-
jects and to furnish all levels required by the builder in
order to acquire thoroughness in the use of the archi-
tect’s level and compass.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Advanced Construction — In this course the student
studies the construction and design of steel framing, fire-
proofing of all forms, reinforced concrete, footings and
foundations.
Working drawings for one of the student’s projects are
made. Especial care and accuracy are demanded in the
preparation of the framing plans and details. This work
is traced and blue-printed by Freshmen.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering—A course in which are solved
graphically and analytically more complicated problems
in structural design and applied mechanics, with espec-
ial study of reinforced concrete.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Sanitation—This study is taught from text-book and
embraces sanitary engineering pertaining to buildings, as
follows: sewerage, water supply, lighting and ventila-
tion, plumbing* work, subsoil drainage, dry foundation
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
133
walls and cellars; also drawings of plumbing systems
and fixtures.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Heating and Ventilation — This course is a study of
the theory and practice of heating and ventilating public
buildings and dwelling houses. The different systems
of heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam, etc.,—
are carefully examined and studied. The radiation of
heat from surfaces, the different systems of piping, con-
dition of air as to moisture, amount of air required, causes
and best means adopted to secure pure air; the necessity
of good ventilation and the latest approved methods for
securing this all important feature are some of the topics
considered in this study.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Business Relations — This course consists of lectures in
which are given descriptions of a system of bookkeep-
ing suited to the needs of an architect’s business, a
system of building accounts, filing systems for catalogue
and prints, a card index system for prints and general
information; of forms for agreements with clients, for
proposals and acceptances, for contracts and bonds, and
for certificates ; the laws affecting clients, contractors and
architects; and the rules of professional ethics in private
practice, competitions and municipal affairs.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.	, IX., X. and XI.'
History of Architecture — This course comprises a
study of the early beginnings, growth and development
of Architectural styles. It includes ethnography as
applied to Architectural Art; Ancient Architecture;
134
BULLETIN OB THE
Bgyptian Architecture ; Assyrian Architecture; Grecian
Architecture; Btruscan; Roman and Sassanian Archi-
tecture ; Christian Architecture in Prance, Belgium and
Holland, Germany, Scandinavia, Bngland, Spain and
Portugal, and Italy; Saracenic and Ancient American
Architecture; Byzantine Architecture.
[Two hours a week for three terms.]
XII.
History of Ornament—A study of the origin and
evolution of ornament and the application of the same,
together with exercises in motive.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
History of Allied Arts — A brief study of the field of
Arts with especial reference to sculpture, metal work-
ing, mural painting, stained glass.and .mosaic.
[Two hours a week for first term.’
[One hour a week for second term.’
XIV.
History of Construction—A critical study of the types
of Construction of the ancient, medieval and modern
builders, tracing the relation of the type to the problem
and the development of the style from the type.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
The Elements of Architecture—This course is a study
of the Pive Orders of Architecture and is given by lec-
tures, recitations and drawings. The study embraces a
thorough analysis of each Order, in which the principal
and distinguishing features of each are clearly shown
and comparisons made. Also a study in detail of the
forms and proportions characterizing each is made in the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	135
class-room. Problems pertaining to the Orders are given
in the Drawing-room, and detail drawings and colorings
made.
[Bight hours a week for two terms.]
XVI., XVII. and XVIII.
Design— The study of problems in Architectural
Design, embodying the subjects of composition and form.
This course expands from Blementary Design (second
year) to Advanced Design and Thesis Work (fourth
$
year), and includes the handling of design in monu-
mental structures, and its application to modern build-
ings, such as hospitals, theaters, municipal buildings,
libraries, churches, etc.	.
The program for the second year requires the execu-
tion of nine minor, and nine major problems; that
for the third year of nine minor and six major prob-
lems ; that for the fourth year of four minor and three
major problems and the thesis.
Students of the Bngineering course will be given
Bngineering problems exclusively, beginning with the
second, term of the third year.
[Seven, eight and twelve hours a week,
respectively, for three years.]
XIX.
Theory of Design—A thorough study of the princi-
ples of'planning and proportion, supplemented by study
of the perfections and faults of the world’s most famous
buildings.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
136
BULLETIN OH THE
COURSE IN ASTRONOMY.
Astronomy — Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students and
to give them the training and information necessary for
intelligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their pro-
fessional career. The course comprises a study of as-
tronomical instruments as* well as instruments of more
precision than those used in ordinary surveying. The
adjustment and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computations; problems in finding right ascensions and
declination; different methods for finding latitude, longi-
tude and time are studied in detail, and the methods of
making the observations and their adjustments, and dis-
cussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into sidereal,
and sidereal time into solar. In connection with this
subject is given a more complete study of many of the
topics considered in elementary astronomy, as here they
are treated mathematically ; as for example, methods for
finding parallax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and
correction for refraction. The subjects of procession,—
nutation—annual aberration—proper motion of- stars,
etc., are studied. Text-books, Young, Greene.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
137
COURSES IN GEOLOGY.
I.
Mineralogy—Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
II.
Assaying — Chiefly laboratory work. Eurnace assay-
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
III.
Geology—Lectures, recitations, demonstrations. The
study of the general features of the earth ; the material
composing the accessible parts of the earth ; the arrange-
ments of the material in rocks ; the causes of geological
changes ; the history of the earth and the various forms
of life that existed in the different periods of successive
geological ages. Text-book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
*
COURSES IN PHYSICS.
I.
Physics—A complete course of recitations and lec-
tures, including mechanics, heat, sound, light, electricity,
and magnetism. The work is fully illustrated by experi-
ments. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
BULLETIN OE THE
138
General Physics—In this course there is a more ex-
tended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to phys-
ical phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy
in the mathematical work and in the statements of the
principles involved. Lectures and recitations. Text-
book, Hastings and Beach.
[Three hours a week for .two terms.]
III.
Physical Problems — The application of mathematics
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
time. Work in-mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity
and magnetism. The work is done in the laboratory
and the student is taught to depend on his own resources
and to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory—Special advanced work in heat,
light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism.
Accuracy in observations dhd in the calculation and
recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they
are following. • This course must be preceded by Courses
II. and III.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	139
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY.
{In the description of these courses, an “hour” means
two sixty-minute periods in the laboratory or one in the
lecture room I)
I.
{a) General Chemistry—A minor Course dealing with
the general principles of chemistry ' and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book, Remseri s Elements of Chemistry.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
{If A Laboratory Course covering in the laboratory
the work of the Lecture Course (I. a) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
{cf General Descriptive Chemistry—Recitations and
experimental lectures treating of the fundamental
principles of chemistry, and designed to meet the require-
ments of the students of the College of Engineering.
Text-book, Hessler and Smith.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
{b) A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the needs
of Engineering students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
’	III.
{a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry—Tor Biological,
General Science and Chemistry students. Lectures
and recitations. A complete study of the elements and
their most important compounds, following the classifi-
140
BULLETIN OF THE
cation basedxon Mendeleeffis Law, and including a dis-
cussion of the theories of the science. Careful attention
is given to the technical chemical processes and indus-
tries, and to the writing of chemical reactions. Text-
book, NewtW s Inorganic Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(#) Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory course
to accompany Course III. (a), the work consisting of the
preparation by the student of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, special
attention is given to the characteristic reactions of the
metals and to the principles of chemical analysis. Text-
book, Thorp.
[Two hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.]
IV.
Qualitative Analysis—The work of this course com-
prises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions
involved in the separation and detection of the more
common inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts,
mixtures of salts, and complex substances such as earths,
ores, ashes, etc. Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by
lectures.
[Lour hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
V.
Quantitative Analysis—A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically, and vol-
umetrically. Complete analysis of a number of simple
salts, like Barium Chloride, with partial analysis of sub-
stances such as steel, lye, drinking-water, etc. Text-
books, Appleton, Schimpf.
[Lour hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	T4I
VI.
(#) Elementary Organic Chemistry— Lectures and
recitations. A systematic study of tlie hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their prop-
erties. Special attention is given to the Aliphatic and
Aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(#) Experimental Organic Chemistry—A course fitted
to accompany the preceding, involving the prepa-
ration by the student in the laboratory of the most
important and typical organic compounds, and the
investigation of their properties. Text-book, Gatter-
mann’s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Urinary Analysis and Toxicology — A course of lab-
oratory exercises in the methods employed in the
detection and estimation of the constituents of the urine,
and of the alkaloids and principal organic poisons.
Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week-for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis — Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in Chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student in
I.	Gas Analysis.
II.	Water Analysis.
III.	Sugar Analysis.
IV.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
V.	Oils and Fats.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
142	BULLETIN OB THE
IX.
(«) Advanced Organic Chemistry — An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry,
lectures and recitations and discussion of special sub-
jects of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomer-
ism, and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(#) Advanced Organic Laboratory—(i) The first
term of this course is spent principally in the making
of organic preparations by methods demanding special
care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2) The second
term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds by
the various methods ; also in the determination of mole-
cular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,
special notes and reference works.
[Ten to fifteen -hours a week for two terms.]
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry — In this course,
the chemical bases and their compounds are considered,
with special reference to their importance in Pharmacy
and Materia Medica. Text-book, Sadtler’s and Trim-
ble’s Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XI.
(«) Electrochemistry—Lectures, experiments and reci-
tations on the principles of electrochemistry and their
application in the chemical industries, separation of
metals, the preparation of chemical elements and elec-
trosynthesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen and
Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	143
(V) Electrochemical Laboratory—A laboratory course
accompanying Course XI. (<2). Experiments demon-
strating the laws and principles of electrochemistry,
electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electrometallurgy.
Quantitative determination of metals electrolytically.
Text-books, Litpke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry —- The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book,
Meyer. References to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(«) Physical Chemistry — Lectures, recitations and
demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas densi-
ty, solutions, chemical dynamics, the Phase Rule, ther-
mochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van De-
venter.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(V) Experimental Physical Chemistry — Laboratory
work to accompany XIII. (a). Vapor density methods,
calorimetric demonstrations, molecular weight demon-
strations by the freezing and boiling point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
■	XIV.
Industrial Chemistry—Lectures, recitations and lab-
oratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in'the labora-
144
BULLETIN OE THE
tory of chemically pure substances, organic and inor-
ganic. Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Advanced Quantitative—Mostly laboratory work in
special methods for gravimetric and volumetric deter-
minations of inorganic substances. Special reference
work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XVI.
Research Work — Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.
See requirements for degrees pages 28, 29.
COURSES IN BOTANY.
(In the description of these courses an hour means
two sixty miuute periods in the laboratory or one in the
lecture room.
I.
Botany — Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the
development of the embryo and the processes of pollina-
tion and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell,
of its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and
the various physiological phenomena; the structure,
growth, reproduction and general classification of the
Algae, Fungi, Lichens, Mosses, Ferns, and the higher
plants. Text-book, Bastin’s College Botany.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
145
II.
Botanical Laboratory — Supplementary to Course I.
Special microscopical study of Thallophyta, Bryophyta,
Pteridophyta, and Spermaphyta referred to in Course I.
Drawings must be made of all plants examined. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become familiar with their mor-
phology, structure and classification. The course is to
accompany or to be preceded by Course I. Provision
is also made in this course for students in pharmacy to
take a special laboratory course in Pharmaceutical Bot-
any. Study of the determination and classification of
the simpler officinal plants. The analysis of the Phan-
erogams occupies the time during the spring months and
the student is made familiar with the habitat and charac-
teristics of the local flora. Text-book for classification
of plants, Britton’s Manual.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Botany — Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same
as that laid out in Strasburg er's or Vine's text-book of
Botany. Special study is made of the Physiology,
Ontogeny, Phylogeny, Ecology and classification of
plants. Text-book, Strasburger.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany — Supplementary to
Course III., and either following or accompanying it.
(a)	Plant Histology and Physiology — Half of the
time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to Plant
Histology and Physiology. The student is required
to study practically the methods of killing, fixing em-
146
BULLETIN OF THE
bedding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of
plant tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(Jf Plant Classification, Advanced — The other half
of the laboratory work is devoted to the determination
and classification of the more difficult plants, the Com-
positae, Grasses, Mosses, Myxomycetes, etc. Herba-
rium study is required, as well as preparing and collect-
ing plants for preservation. During spring and autumn
frequent excursions into the neighboring fields and woods
are made for the purpose of studying and collecting
for preservation the local aquatic and land flora. Text-
book, Britton’s Manual.
[One and one-half to two hours a week for two
terms.]
Systematic Botany—Principally laboratory and her-
barium work in special groups of Phanerogams and
Cryptograms. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in Botany. library
reference books and seminar work.
COURSES IN ZOOLOGY.
I.
This course comprises:
(«) Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Nicholson’s Text-book of Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker’s Elementary Course in Biology.
Cf Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined in
Pratt’s Invertebrate Zoology} and Parker’s Biology.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	147
{d} Mammalian Osteology including the study of one
or two types of skeletons belonging to each order of
mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch’s Ele-
mentary Course in Mammalian Osteology. ■
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for
first term; three recitation hours and three
laboratory periods for second term.]
. 11~ >
This course comprises:
(a) Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based
upon Hertwig’s Manual of Zoology.
(JZ) laboratory work upon some Invertebrata in order
to complete and supplement the work under If} in
Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one or two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrata, viz : Fish,
frog, newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used
is Pratt’s Vertebrate Zoology.
A more extended study of mammalia with refer-
ence to the cat as outlined in Davison’s Mammalian
Anatomy.
(o') An outline of comparative Embryology of animals.
Text-books, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
[Three recitation hours and three laboratory
periods for two terms.)
COURSES IN MICROSCOPY.
I.
Microscopy —Rectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion of light and illumination. The index
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of
lenses. Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selec-
tion and care of a good microscope. The use of access-
ories for advanced work; immersion and adjustable
148
BULLETIN OF THE
objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer,
micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-micrography.
Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
- II.
Micro-Chemistry — Laboratory work. The preparation
of micro-chemical reagents and their application in test-
ing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning, and mounting
tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
COURSES IN HUMAN ANATOMY*
I.
Human Histology — Laboratory work and demon-
strations. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Courses in Human Physiology.
II.
Human Histology — Lectures, recitations and labora-
tory work. The work covers a thorough course in
Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening,
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system—brain and
spinal cord, termination of nerve fibres, etc. Drawings
made from each preparation. Text-book, Pier sol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Human Anatomy—Lectures and recitations. Oste-
ology and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular,
vascular and nervous systems and of the organs of special
sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book, Gray.
[Three hours a week for four terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
149
COURSES IN HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY.
I.
(a) This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton’s Text-book of
Human Physiology. K liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstrations
required.
(If Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental Physiology.
(k) A limited number of microscopial preparations are
required to be made by each student, and he must examine
a set of typical preparations in order to acquire a fair
knowledge of the microscopial structure of the tissues
and organs of the human body.
(df During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Three recitations and one laboratory period for two terms.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (af
and (d) but may select either (b) or (k).
II.
(«) This course comprises a complete study of Human
Physiology such as is required of students of medicine.
The lectures, recitations and demonstrations are based,
upon Kirke’s Handbook of Physiology and Hall’s Text-
book of Physiology, moreover, the student will have free
access to a copy of The Ameridan Text-book of Physiology
for special references	.
(If Laboratory work in Experimental Physiology.
The manual used is Hall’s Experimental Physiology, but
the student will have free access to a number of other
similar works.
[Pour recitation hours and two laboratory periods for
two terms.]
150
BULEETIX OF THE
COURSE IN BACTERIOLOGY*
Lectures and Laboratory Work—Lectures on the form,
structure, reproduction and classification of Bacteria. The
relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The principles of
sterilization, thermal and chemical, are pointed out. The
early part of the laboratory work is occupied in the prep-
aration of the various culture - media and. in studying
pure cultures of certain non-pathogenic bacteria in these
media. Observations on the microscopic characteristics
of bacteria and special attention to the microscopic tech-
nique required in Bacteriological work. Later on in the
course some time is devoted to practice in isolation and
identification of pathogenic bacteria. Lmphasis is given
to the detection of pathogenic germs by the various
staining processes. Inoculation of animals. Bacteriolo-
gical investigation of water, air and soil. Text-book,
Abbot’s Principles of Bacteriology.
[Three laboratory hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN PHARMACY*
I.
Elements of Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations on
the art and science of Pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various Pharmaceutical processes. Text-book,
Remington’s Practice of Pharmacy.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy—A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
.UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	151
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the manu-
facture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. R preparations.
[Three hours a week for one term.J
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy—Tab oratory, demonstrations and
recitations. A thorough course in the preparation and
testing of Pharmaceutical and Technical Chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
General Pharmacy — A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Magistral Pharmacy — Includes the manifold methods
of extemporaneous Pharmacy with consideration of in-
compatibility, posology, and the principles of Elegant
Pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry — Chiefly assaying, testing
and manufacturing. Some attention is given, however,
to toilet and compiercial preparations with a view to the
invention and development of original formulas.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
General Pharmacy — Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectroscopic
estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of manufac-
ture.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
152
BULLETIN OF THE
MATERIA MEDICA, PHARMACOGNOSY AND
THERAPEUTICS.
VIII.
(a)	Materia Medica—A detailed consideration of
medicinal substances, their constituents and use.
(b)	Pharmacognosy — The identification of drugs by
their-physical properties with special reference to quality.
(c)	Therapeutics — With reference to Therapeutic
action, dose and antidote, drugs will be studied in groups
as well as individually. .
[Three hours a week for three terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic — This work embraces a
study of weights and measures, percentage, relationship
of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alligation
and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN MECHANICAL DRAWING.
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may
be trained in Outline Drawing in pencil and pen. Then
follows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the
use of instruments is taken up. Beginning with the
instruments, attention is given to accurate draughtman-
ship upon plates, illustrating problems of Civil, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and Architectural Engineering. This
work is continued throughout the Courses.
\Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for
each credit hoztr on the schedule. ]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
153
I.
Freehand — This course consists of sketching with
pencil and pen from flat copies and models of machine
parts, and freehand lettering. Later in the term, the
use of instruments, section-lining and lettering are
taught. Text-book, Jamison's Elements,
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing — The course embraces the prin-
ciples of projections, methods of shop-drawing, tinting,
tracing, blue printing, line-shading and the preparation
of working drawings of complete machines. This Course
must be preceded by Course I. Text-book, Jamison’s
Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry — A series of accurate plates
is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective
and isometric projections. (Students in Architecture
are required to do advanced work in shades and shadows
and perspective.)
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing—Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involving
the application of kinematics and the computation of
dimensions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography—Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
154
BULLETIN OF THE
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I.
Text-book, Reed.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VI.
Stereotomy— This course comprises a study of the
application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to
the determination of the forms and sizes of the stones
used in the construction of the different classes of arches
and masonry structures. This course is given by lec-
tures in the Drawing Room, explaining the construction
of templates, and use of directing instrument; also
explanations of methods of drawing plans, elevation and
development of oblique arches, wing walls and the like.
A certain number of plates and drawings is required,
illustrating the methods of performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry constructions,'foundations, dams, piers, abut-
ments, culverts and arches. Text-book, French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing—This course proceeds from simple
framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of various de-
signs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineering. Com-
plete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings,—a
short general course of bridge designing for Seniors.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Mechanical Drawing—A continuation of Courses I.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical design
with calculation of dimensions and construction of draw-
ings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Row’s Machine
Drawing and Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
155
IX.
Freehand—The principles of Freehand drawing in
in pencil and pen from objects, and later from biological
specimens, plants, animals and microscopical prepara-
tions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Freehand — Advanced drawing from plants and anat-
omical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publi-
cations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Water Color— Drawing in water color from still life
and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
Rendering in Water Color — The rendering of archi-
tectural drawings, including perspectives;—casting of
shadows, color treatments of buildings, and handling of
foreground and background.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIII.
Pen and Ink—Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art; fol-
lowed by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN ARTISTIC DRAWING.
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough foun-
dation in drawing for those who want to make Art a
profession, but the courses are so arranged as to be
accessible to other students. The system of teaching,
which is that followed in the best art schools, is in-
tended to develop the individuality of each student, so
that with a good understanding of the principles of art he
may interpret nature according to his own temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, object and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer
many beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes, and
the classes are taken out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one, which was carefully selected at the National School
of Tine arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows :
Full Figure—The Diadumenos (British Museum); the
Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically: the
Discobolus; fhe Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michel
Angelo ; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre) ;
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads—Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol); Cato (Rome, the Vatican); Cicero (Rome,
the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa (Lou-
vre); Venus (Vatican); A Centurion (Naples); Ariadne
(the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples); a Vestal
(Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters of
Niobe (Florence).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
157
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and archi-
tectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity,
the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and of elements of
the human figure (hands, feet, etc.) from the antique,
and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS,
I.
(<2) Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geomet-
trical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentels, etc. Sketch-
ing from simple objects.
(b} Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves and flowers.
(k) Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. lectures on per-
spective, direction of the principal lines in relation to the
horizon. Elementary notions of the five orders of
architecture.
(d) Drawing from casts of the human figure : hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS,
II.
(«) Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape. Appli-
cations of perspective.
(^) Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching
from the costumed model. Still life in water colors.
History of art.
158
BULLETIN OE THE
III.
Life Class — Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science Hall.
Still life painting in water colors and oil. Landscape
painting. Drawing for illustration.
IV.
Sketch Class— One hour a week. This class is open
also to the students in the Mechanical Drawing classes.
The students have themselves an organization, ‘ ‘The
Crayon Club,” the object of which is to sketch college
scenes and to do illustrative work: these sketches are
brought into class and criticized.
Modelling — An entire week in the spring terms of the
Sophomore, Junior and Senior years in Architecture is
devoted to modelling in clay. The objects modelled are
architectural forms, copied from the casts or made from
the student’s drawings of his own work, as his progress
and ability may warrant.
VI.
Class of Decorative Design —The object of this depart-
ment is to prepare students for professional work in
decorative designings of all kinds. They will take up
the study of historical ornaments and will be taught the
several principles of the arrangement of designs, and
from personal sketches of plants aud flowers will be
shown the art of making original designs for wall paper,
book covers, stained glass, carpets, interior decorations,
metal plates, etc. No particular programme is given
out as the teaching is purely individual.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
•159
COURSES IN MUSIC.
FIRST YEAR.
I.
Violin—Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte — Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Eoeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Helier. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke and
Mozart. Jugend album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
III.	.
Voice-Production — Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breath-control. Articulation. Text-books, Shakespeare’s
Art of Singing. Part I.; Kofler’s Art of Breathing •
Studies by Bassini; English Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading — Elementary Theory of Music.
Intervals, and Ear-Training. Choir Practice.
IV.	'
Organ—Rink’s Organ School. Eugene Thayer’s Studies.
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR. '
la.
Violin — Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, and Mozart.
Ila.
Pianoforte — Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert, Ee-
couppy, Cramer and Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s Preludes, Fugues and Inventions. Sonatas and
i6o
BULLETIN OF THE
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann and Schubert.
Illa.
Voice-Production—Advanced Breathing Bxercises.
Study of the Chest and Falsetto registers. Stroke of the
Glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing, Parts
II, and III.; Studies from Italian Operas ; French and
Bnglish Songs.
Vocal Sight Reading — Phrasing, punctuation and ad-
vanced study. Practice in Operatic Ch or us-work.
IVa.
Organ — Schneider-Warren’s Pedal Studies. Fasy son-
atas by Mendelssohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes
and Fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting.
Canonic Studies by Chadwick.
V.
Harmony—Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
ization of melodies. Harmonizing from figured bass.
Text-books, Goetschius’ Tone Relations. Rogier’ $ Har-
mony.
THIRD YEAR.
Ib. ’
Violin—Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alard, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelssohn, Dvorak.
lib.
Pianaforte—Gradus ad Parnassum, Clementi-Tausig.
Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and
French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Haberbier and Hen-
selt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven, Weber,
Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	l6l
Illb.
Voice-Prod action — Study of Trill, Mordent, Grup-
petto, etc. Messa di Voce.
IVb.
Organ — Sonatas, Preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Hsendel, Merkel, Salome,
Whiting, Best, Rheinberger.
Va.
Harmony — (Counterpoint). Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon.
Fugue.
FOURTH YEAR.
Ic.
Violin — Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Bruch, Joachim and others.
He.
Pianoforte—Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos, and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Riszt.
iric
Organ—The greater Preludes, Fantasies and Fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Guilment and Saint-Saens.
IVc
Harmony—(Composition.) Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the Sonata, Rondo, etc. Practical applica-
tion in an original manner of these forms. Orchestra-
tion.
INSTRUMENTS.
Instruction is also given on the Viola, Flute, Piccolo,
Cornet, Trombone, Guitar and Mandolin.
162
BULLETIN OF THE
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of play-
ing in the University Orchestra and Band.
THE SINGING CLASS.
There is an organization of musical students open to
those only taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir and
the Glee Club are selected from the members of this class.
COURSES IN CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE.
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine.
FIRST YEAR.
Moral—The Articles of the Creed. The General
Principles of Morality. Virtue and Sin. The Com-
mandments of God. Text-book, Manual of Christian
Doctrine.
SECOND YEAR.
Moral—The Commandments of the Church. The
Evangelical Counsels and Beatitudes. Worship and
Means of Sanctification, — Grace, Prayer, the Sacra-
ments, Liturgy. Text-book, Manual of Christian Doc-
trine.
THIRD YEAR.
Dogma—Revealed Religion. Pre-Christian Revela-
tion. The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church.
God Considered in Himself. Text-book, Wilmer’s
Hand-book of the Christian Religion.
FOURTH YEAR.
Dogma — God the Creator. God the Redeemer. Sanc-
tification. Grace. The Sacraments. The Church as a
Means of Salvation. Text-book, Wilmer’s Hand-book
of the Christian Religion.
Preparatory School
164
BULLETIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL.
Rev. WILLIAM MARR, C. S. C„
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. JOSEPH J. GALLAGHER, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. THOMAS H. CORBETT, C. S. C.
Mathematics.
REV. MICHAEL M. OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
Rev. MATTHEW A. SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
English and History.
Rev. JAMES J. TRAHEY, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography, Typewriting.
WILLIAM L. BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mathematics.	*
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
SHERMAN STEELE, LiTT. B., LL. B„
English and Civics.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	165
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
ALPHAEUS B. REYNOLDS, A. B.,
Latin and English.
WILLIAM J. MAHONEY, A. B., LL. B.,
Mathematics.
JOHN QUINLAN, A. B.,
English and Mathematics.
MICHAEL J. SHEA, A. M.,
Latin and Greek.
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. M.,
' French and English.
JOHN B. RENO, A. M., LL. B„
History and English.
TERENCE B. COSGROVE, A. B., LL. B.,
Mathematics and Astronomy.
JOHN J. MARONEY,
English, Geography and History.
JOHN WORDEN, B. S.
Drawing.
gallitzen A. FARABAUGH, A. B.,
History and English.
CLARENCE J. KENNEDY, B. S.
Physiology, Zoology, Botanv,
EDWARD H. SCHWAB, LL. M.
Commercial Law.
HENRY M. KEMPER, A. M.
Latin and English.
ARTHUR S. FUNK, B. S.
Chemistry.
MAURUS J- UHRICH, C. E.,
Physics.
166
BULLETIN OF THE
THE PREPARATORY SCHOOL.
The University maintains a fully equipped Preparatory
School under the same general government as the Col-
leges, but having its own special corps of instructors.
The schedules of studies are arranged to meet the need
of thorough preparation for collegiate work, and embrace
courses which, while giving as wide an education as can
be obtained in the very best High Schools, prepare
students directly for the group of studies they may elect
when entering the Freshman year. Five different
programs of instruction are offered to students, each con-
taining such special courses as directly meet the needs
of the fifteen college groups, while all embrace common
subjects which are indispensably necessary in acquiring
a fairly liberal education. The period of instruction
covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Prepara-
tory School are most complete. The laboratories are
extensive and fully supplied with the latest improved
appliances. The classes pursuing any subject are divided
into sections, each containing a limited number of
students. The sections are purposely limited in order
that each student may receive close attention from the
instructor in every recitation and laboratory period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening of
the School in September and embrace the subjects com-
pleted in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expenses for tuition, board, laundry, etc., and for
special courses not listed in the programs will be found
on pages 33, 34. The following fees are special to the
Preparatory School;
LABORATORY FEES.
Science C.—Elementary Botany...........$	2.50
Science D.—Elementary Zoology......... 2.50
Science E I.—Elementary Chemistry..... 2.50
Science FI.—Elementary Physics........ 2.50
Science E. II.—Elementary Chemistry.... 5.00
Science F. II.—Elementary Physics..... 5.00
a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Studies Preparatory for the Department of Classics in the
College of Arts and Letters.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a .Week	COURSE
Latin - - -	5	A	Latin - - -	5	A
English - -	5	A	English - -	5	A
History - -	3	A	History - -	3	A
Mathematics -	5	A.	Mathematics -	5	B
Science - -	5	B	Science - -	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
Latin - - -	5	B	Latin - - -	5	B
Greek - - -	5	A	Greek - - -	5	A
English - -	5	B	English -, -	5	B
History - -	3	B	History - -	3	B
Mathematics -	5	C	Mathematics -	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin - - -	5	c	Latin - - -	5	c
Greek - - -	5	B	Greek - - -	5	B
English - -	5	C	English - -	5	C
History - - -	3	C	History - -	3	c
Mathematics -	5	E	Science - -	5	c
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin - - -	5	D	Latin - - -	5	D
Greek - - -	5	C	Greek - - -	5	C
English - -	5	D	English - -	5	D
German or 1		A	German or 1		A
French	J	5		French	J	5	
Science - -	5	EI	Science - -	5	FI
168
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Preparatory for the Department of Letters and the
Department of History and Economics in the
College of Arts and Letters.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS BIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
Latin - - -	5	A	[ Latin - - -	5	A
English - - -	5	A	English - -	5	A
History - -	3	A	History - -	3	A
Mathematics -	5	A	Mathematics -	5	B
Science - - -	5	B	Science - -	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
Latin - - -	5	B	Latin - - -	5	B
French or L		A	French or \		
German J “	5	A	German j	5	A
English - - -	5	B	English - -	5	B
History - - -	3	B	History - - -	3	B
Mathematics -	5s	C	Mathematics -	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin - - -	5	c	Latin - - -	5	C
French or 1		T>	French or "I		
German f"	3	Jo	German j	' 3	B
English - -	5	c	English - -	5	c
History- - -	3	c	History - -	3	c
Mathematics -	5	E	Science - - -	3	c
Civil Gov’m’t -	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin - - -	5	D	Latin - - -	5	D
French or 1		r\	French or}		
German f "	2	c	German J	2	C
English - -	5	D	English - -	5	D
German or*l			German or }		
French	J	5	A	French	J	5	A
Science - -	5	EI	Science - - -	5	FI
* Students who begin French Ain the second year must begin German A in
the fourth year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
169
Studies Preparatory for the College of Science.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English- - -	5	A	English- - -	5	A
Mathematics -	5	A	Mathematics -	5	B
Latin - - -	5	A	Latin - - -	5	A
Civil Gov’m’t-	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t-	2	A
Science - - -	5	A	Science - - -	5‘	D
SECOND YEAR.
English - -	5	B	English - -	5	B
Mathematics -	5	C	Mathematics -	5	D
History- - -	3	A	History - - -	3	A
Sc:ence - -	5	B	Science - - -	5	C
Latin - - -	5	B	Latin - - -	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English - - -	5	C	English - -	5	C
Mathematics -	5	E	Mathematics -	5	F
German- - -	5	A	German - -	5	A
Science - - -	5	EH	Science - -	5	Eli
History - - -	3	B	History - - -	3	B
FOURTH YEAR.
English - -	5	D	English- - -	5	D
Qer man - -	3	B	German - -	3	B
Science - - -	5	FI I	Science - - -	5	FII
Science - - -	2	G	Science - - -	2	G
Historj^ - - -	3	C	History - - -	3	C
Drawing - -	3	A	Drawing - -	n o	B
General Science students shall take Trigonometry in the fourth year instead
of German B.
Biological students shall take four hours of Drawing in the second term ol
the third year instead of Mathematics F.
170
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Preparatory for the College of Engineering*
FIRST YEAR*
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English - -	5	A	English - -	5	A
Mathematics -	5	A	Mathematics -	5	B
History - - -	3	A	History - - -	3	A
Science- - -	5	A	Science - - -	5	D
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
SECOND YEAR.
English - -	5	B	English - -	5	B
Mathematics -	5	C	Mathematics -	5	D
History - - -	3	B	History - - -	3	B
Science - - -	5	B	Science - - -	5	C
German - -	5	A	German - -	5	A
THIRD YEAR.
English - -	5	C	English - -	5	C
Mathematics -	5	E	Mathematics -	5	F
German - -	3	B	German - -	3	B
Science - - -	5	Eli	Science - - -	5	EH
History - - -	3	C	History - - -	3	C
FOURTH YEAR.
English - -	5	D	English - -	5	D
Mathematics -	5	G	Mathematics -	5	H
Drawing - -	3		Drawing - -	3	A
Science - - -	5	FII	Science - - -	5	FII
Science - - -	2	G	Science - - -	2	G
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME.
171
PREPARATORY COURSES.
COURSES IN LATIN.
A.	.
Grammar — Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises — Rudiments of Latin, Reynolds.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar — Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar — Books I.-IV.; or Junior Latin Book.
Prose Composition—Based on Caesar.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar — Syntax, Bennett.
Nepos—Selected Lives.
Sallust — Catiline.
Cicero—Orations I.-III., Against Catiline.
Prose Composition—Based on Authors read.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar — Complete Review.
Cicero — Three Orations, including Pro Lege Manilia.
Ovid — Metamorphoses.
Vergil—Aeneid, Six Books. The explanations cover
peculiarity of Syntax, Figures, Mythology.
Prosody — Study of Hexameter Verse.
Prose Composition—Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
BULLETIN OF THE
172
COURSES IN GREEK.
A.
Grammar — Etymology, Goodell.
Lessons for Beginners — Morrison and Goodell.
Epitome of the New Testament— Part I., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms J
B.
Grammar— Goodell—Etymology reviewed and Syntax
begun.
Xenophon — Anabasis, Pour Books, Smith.
Compositions — Based on the Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament — Part II., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar — Completed.
Xenophon—Selections from the Memorabilia.
Prose Composition —
Homer—Iliad—Six Books—Seymour.
Epitome of the New Testament—Part III., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN ENGLISH.
(<2) Meiklejohn’s Art of Writing English, with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(Jf The elements of versification. Scansion, one hour
a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Memory
work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
173
(^) Required reading : Robinson Crusoe, * Evangeline'
Treasure Island, Snow-Bound, * The Sketch Book, * The
Vision of Sir Eaunfal, Poe’s Tales, Poe’s Poems, Fior-
elli, ffulius Caesar, *The Merchant of Venice,
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied ; the others
read.)
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
B
(o') Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric. Part I., with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(#) The simpler verse-forms. Weekly exercises'
ff Required reading: Ivanhoe, * The Lady of the
Lake, *The Vicar of Wakefield, Thf Ancient Mariner,
The Courtship of Miles Standish, * Silas Marner, *The
Princess, * Macbeth, *As You Like It.
( The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
C.
(a) Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with daily
exercises in class. Weekly theme first term ; fortnightly
essay second term.
(Jf Verse-forms continued. Weekly exercises. -Mem-
ory work.
ff Required reading: *Sir Roger de Coverly, ^Mac-
aulay’s Essay on Addison, ^The Golden Treasury of
English Lyrics, ^Macaulay’s Essay on Milton, ^Milton’s
Minor Poems, *A Midsummer Night's Dream, ^Burke’s
Speech on' the Conciliation of America, * Webster’s
Bunker Hill Oration, '^Lincoln’s Gettysburg Oration,
*King Lear.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
174
BULLETIN OP THE
(«) Genung’s The Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part I., with, daily exercises in class. Fortnightly essay
first term; monthly essay second term.
(#) Verse-forms concluded. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(k) Required reading : The House of the Seven Gables,
*The Idyll's of the King, Selections from Paradise Lost,
Cary’s Dante, ^Gates’ Selections from Newman, ^The
Dream of Gerontius, Pope’s Homer, ^The Tempest,
Aubrey de Vere’s Poems, * Hamlet.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN FRENCH*
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Reading three of the following: Houghton’s French
by Reading, La Fache du Petit Pierre {Mairet},
Un Cas de Conscience {Gervais}, La Main Malheureuse
{Guerber}, Sans Famille {Malot}, Super’s Readings
from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Dictations and conversations are added on
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
175
practical topics, and careful translation made of two or
three of the following works : Le Voyage de M. Per-
richon {Labiche}, Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre
{Feuillet}, Fables choisies (.La Fontaine}, Le Medecin
Malgre Lui {Moliere}, Le Cid {Corneille}} Esther
{Racine}, Pages oubliees de {Chateaubriand}, La Ques-
tion d’ Argent {Dumas}, Standard' French Authors
( Guerlac}.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
•	C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes com-
position, conversation, history and general view of
French literature. Besides a reading and criticism of
the best writers, such as: Causeries du Lundi {Ste.
Beuve}, On Rend 1’ Argent (Coppee}, Hernani {Hugo},
Meditations {Lamartine}, Athalie {Racine}, L’Avare
{Moliere}, Mlle, de la Seigliere {Sandeau}, Les
Origines de la France Contemporaine (Taine}, Ex-
pedition de Bonaparte en Egypte {Thier}, Ste. Eliza-
beth de Hongrie {Montalemberf}, Histoire de la
Litterature Fran^aise {Duval}.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the same
every year.
COURSES IN GE RMAN*
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part I. Translation from
German into English of simple prose; translation of
English exercises into German. Reading of short stories
and selections from more difficult prose.
176	BULLETIN OF THE
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part II. Translation into
German of narrative prose and selections from history.
Sight reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorethea (Goethe") ; Lichtenstein (Hauff).
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part III. Sight reading
of plays, poems and prose writings. Translations of
selections from history and literature ; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm (Lessing) ; Best known poems
(Heine) ; Correspondence (Schiller-Goethe.)
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN HISTORY.
Ancient History—Fisher’s Outlines of Ancient History.
The Oriental Nations. The History of Greece and
of the Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome.
The Establishment of the Empire, and the Rise of
Christianity.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Medieval History —Fisher’s Outlines of Medieval His-
tory. The Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mahom-
medanism and the Saracen Caliphs. The Holy Roman
Empire. The Invasion of the Northmen and the Ma-
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
177
gyars. The Empire and the Papacy. The Crusades.
"The Great Schism and the rise of the nations of Modern
.Europe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Modern History — Pislrer’s Outlines of Modern His-
tory. The Renaissance. The Ages of Discovery. The
Protestant Reformation. The Power of Spain. The
Strifes of France with Spain and Germany? The Ages
•of Louis XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish
•and Austrian Successions. The Empire of England.
The American Revolution. The French Revolution
and the Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the
Spirit of Nationality. The Formation of Germany and
Italy.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSE IN CIVIL GOVERNMENT,
This is a study of the science of government in connec-
tion with American institutions, and is intended to give
the student some knowledge of the general principles of
government and the American Constitution. The sub-
ject begins by defining government; then is considered
the object and necessity of government; origin of civil
'Society; the principle of suffrage; different forms of
government defined and compared; theories of repre-
'Sentation. These topics necessarily are treated briefly,
as the principal part of the course consists of a study of
the Colonial governments, the Articles of Confederation
and their defects,- the formation of the Constitution and
178
BULLETIN OE THE
its adoption. The study likewise comprises a critical an-
alysis of each article and section of the American Consti-
tution, thus enabling the student to acquire a clear con-
ception of the division of powers of the National
Government and the duties and responsibilities of each
department. Text-book, Government by State and Na-
tion , by Janies and Sanford.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN MATHEMATICS.
A.
Algebra — This course for beginners in Algebra
includes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
dwelt upon in particular are Factoring, Highest Com-
mon Factor and Least Common Multiple, which are
afterward applied in their relation to Fractions and the
reduction of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible,
concrete examples of their applications to kindred scien-
tific subjects are supplied by the teacher. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term J
B.	■
Algebra— In this course the study of Equations is
begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Fractional Equations, Systems of Simultaneous
Equations, Involution, Evolution, Radicals and Expo-
nents complete the course which is supplemented wher-
ever possible with problems of practical application.
Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
179
c.
Algebra—This course begins with Quadratic Equa-
tions, Pure and Affected, followed by Systems of Simul-
taneous Quadratic Equations and those forms of Radical
Equations of Higher Degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and Proportion, Indeterm-
inate Equations, Surds, Imaginaries, Inequalities, the
Progressions and the Binomial Theorem finish the work
in this course. As in the preceding courses, special
stress is placed upon the application of the theory to
such examples as will show its application to the element-
ary scientific subjects. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Geometry—This subject is completed as far as the
end of Elane Geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original proposi-
tions. The habit of independent thinking is cultivated
to some extent by the solution of special problems to
concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation of
the process studied to practical examples. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
Geometry—The study of Solid Geometry is taken
up after Course D., the course being an extension of that
of the preceding term. Planes, Solid Angles, Polyhe-
drons, the Cylinder, Cone and Sphere are all studied in
detail and the solution of original exercises and proposi-
tions of application is made a feature of the course.
Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term]
BULLETIN OF THE
l8o
F.
Algebra and Geometry—This course which continues
through one scholastic year is designed especially for
those students who wish to take up the study of
Bngineering. As this necessitates a thorough ground
work in mathematics, the first half of the year is given
to a review of Algebra and Geometry, three hours and
two hours^per week respectively. The most important
theorems and subjects are again studied and a more
comprehensive view of the subject is attained in the
generalizing of many theorems and extending the range
of others. Text-book, Benits.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Algebra and Geometry —The work of this course is
entirely given up to an elementary exposition of the
application of mathematics to scientific problems and to
analysis. In lectures and class work actual problems
representing existing and practical conditions will be
taken up, and the derivation of approximate formulae
and an elementary study of curves derived from experi-
ment are included. Text-book, Benitz.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
H.
Trigonometry—A half a year is given to this sub-
ject whichjncludes both Plane and Spherical Trigonome-
try. The work done is the equivalent of that in most
of the elementary text-books. Special attention is given
to Goniometry on account of its application to Calculus,
and|examples of a concrete nature are abundantly sup-
plied. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
l8l-
COURSES IN SCIENCE.
A.
Physical Geography— An introductory and element-
ary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the world
about him. The various types of plant and animal life
together with topographical and climatic conditions are
considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
. B.
Physiology—Lectures, recitations and demonstrations
with the stereopticon. The study of the human skeleton
including the physiology and hygiene of the bones. The
action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles. The
digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demon-
strated by models and charts. The anatomy and struct-
ure of the nervous system and simple experiments on
the same. Text-book, Martin.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Elementary Botany — A course for beginners in this
subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and
seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant life
and their classification is also given. Text-book, Bastin’s
Elements of Botany.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Elementary Zoology —Includes an introduction to the
subjects with studies of representative forms and
182
BULLETIN OE THE
their classification in the different groups of the animal
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and lab-
oratory work. Text-book, Chapin andRettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B I.
(a) Elementary Chemistry —A course in the elements
of chemistry designed to meet the requirements in the
College of Arts and Betters. Bectures and recitations.
Text-book, Remsen.
[Four hours a week fior one term.]
(£) A laboratory course of fifty experiments to accom-
pany (zr).
[One hour (two hours of actual work) for one term.]
B II.
(a) Elementary Chemistry— An introductory course
of experimental lectures on familiar subjects such
as water, the air and its constituents, common salt,
etc., leading up to discussions of the more important
elements and their properties, and the fundamental laws
and phenomena of Chemistry. Text-book, Newell.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(£) Experimental Chemistry — A laboratory course to
accompany Course (a). A series of one hundred exer-
cises to be performed by each student, and having as
their main object the cultivation of the student’s
powers of observation and faculty of inductive reasoning.
These exercises comprise a study of the principal metallic
elements, including their preparation, properties and
more familiar compounds. The directions for each
experiment are made as brief as possible, the observa-
tion of facts and the drawing of correct conclusions
therefrom being left, so far as the nature of the experi-
ment will permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) a week for two
terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
183
FI.
(«) Elementary Physics—A course in which the
divisions of the subject are considered briefly, suited to
the requirements of the College of Arts and Letters.
Lectures and recitations. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(5) Laboratory work to accompany (a).
[One hour (two hours of actual time) a week
for one term.]
F II.
(o') Elementary Physics—Instruction in Element-
ary Physics is given by lectures and recitations in which
the general laws of Mechanics, Heat, Acoustics, Optics,
Electricity and Magnetism are presented. The course is
intended to meet the needs of those who desire a general
knowledge of the subject, as well as to lay the founda-
tions for advanced work. Particular attention is paid to
the correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(£) The Laboratory Work of this course consists of
a series of experiments which verify and apply practically
the fundamental principles of Physics. The student also
receives instruction in the use and careful handling of
apparatus, accurate observation, and correct deduction of
results. Neat and concise reports of all experiments are
kept by each student and form the basis for the grades
in his work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each week
for two terms]
G.
Astronomy, Descriptive — This course is intended to
184
BULLETIN OF THE
give students as much, knowledge of astronomical facts
as can be obtained with only an elementary training in
mathematics. The study consists of a description of the
earth, its form, size, density and motion; a study of the
moon and her motions; the sun and its relation to the
earth: an account of eclipses, refraction and aberration
of light. A description of the planets, their distances,
dimensions, and physical conditions ; a study of parallax,
diurnal and annual; an account of meteors and comets^
A study of the stars and constellations; instruction is
given to enable students to name and locate the more
prominent. The subject of Cosmogony is considered
briefly as well as an explanation of the different systems
of Astronomy. The subject is given both by lectures
and text-book. Text-book, Young's Lessons in Astronomy
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN DRAWING.
This course is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
B.
Advanced work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which
afford the study of light and shade.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
185
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK.
The Courses of the Preparatory School outlined
above are equivalent, to those of a High School. There
is also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are
taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—the
students have every opportunity of preparing themselves
as rapidly as possible for High School work.
Commercial School*

i88
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COMMERCIAL SCHOOL.
When the character and needs of the country are con-
sidered, courses in business will appear the most
practical, and among the most important that an educa-
tional institution can offer.
Students therefore, who have not the time or the means •
to take a complete college course in the Classics or
Sciences, would do well to enroll themselves in the Com-
mercial School. No plan of study is more injudicious than
a haphazard selection of such studies as an inexperienced
young man may fancy. The training resulting from a
fixed program of studies is of the utmost benefit to the
student.
The commercial studies at Notre Dame have always
received the most careful attention from the officers and
from the Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims to give
the students of this School a more complete business
training than can be obtained in any purely commercial
school. The authorities require that students taking
this program—which may be completed in one year—
should be at least 16 years of age and should have com-
pleted two years of a regular High School course or its
equivalent. Special arrangements, however, will be
made for .young men who have had no High School
training, but who may have had practical business or
or office experience. Should a student desire to pursue
any other studies in which he may be interested, and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
189
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
FIRST TERM.
I.
Arithmetic—Percentage; Ratio and Proportion; as
far as Involution and Evolution. Normal Union Arith-
metic, Brooks. Recitations daily.
II.
Bookkeeping—Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions ; Initiatory Sets by Double Entry; Retailing by
Double Entry ; special practice in writing Business Paper
and Business forms. New complete Bookkeeping,
Williams and Rogers. Recitations daily.
.	III.
Business Practice and Office Work—Daily after first
two months in Course II. above.
IV.
English — Study of the theory of English Composi-
tion ; frequent exercises in Theme Writing. The princi-
ples of Rhetoric. Recitations daily.
Phonography*— Recitations daily.
VI.
Typewriting—Three hours a week.
VII.
Penmanship.
*Phonography free to commercial students in the final year of
th eir course. For typewriting fees see page 34.
190	BULLETIN OF THE
SECOND TERM.
I.
Arithmetic — Percentage, Ratio and Proportion (re-
viewed) ; Involution and Involution; Arithmetical and
Geometrical Series; Higher Percentage; Mensuration;
Arithmetical Analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks.
Recitations daily.
II.
Bookkeeping — Single Entry; changing Single to
Double Entry; Retailing; Wholesaling; Shipping and
Commission; Jobbing; Manufacturing; Installment and
State Agencies ; Joint Stock Companies; Banking ; Rail-
roading. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and
Rogers. Three hours a week.
III.
Business Practice and Office Work — Four hours a
week.
IV.
Business Correspondence—One hour a week.
Commercial Law — General principles of Contracts ;
Agency; Partnership; Corporations; Guaranty; Sale of
Goods; Negotiable paper. Richardson. Two hours a
week.
VI.
Phonography —- Speed Class. Recitations daily.
VII.
%
Typewriting. Speed Class. Three hours a week.
VIII.
Penmanship.
School for Minims*
192
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS,
For the care and training of boys under the age of
thirteen years, there has beer established a department
to which the most scrupulous attention has always been
paid by the authorities,—it is known as the School
for Minims.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an Rnglish education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Latin, French and German. Vocal Music and Drawing
involve no extra charge. The pupils of this department
are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day : Rising at 6:30
a. m., toilet, etc. ; seven, breakfast, after which there is
a short time given to exercise on the campus; eight,
study ; half-past nine, luncheon ; ten, classes and study;
a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by
recreation ; half-past one, classes and study; three, re-
creation and luncheon ; half-past four, classes and study;
a quarter past six, toilet; half-past six, supper and
recreation ; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may
be seen that while the Minims devote less than seven
hours a day to study, they are never more than two
hours in succession in the class-room. The recreation and
exercise in the fresh air after each period of study,
unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to
their classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and the
study-hall. The presence, however, of the prefect, is
far from being a restraint on the amusement of the boys ;
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	193
for while it is the duty of the prefects to insist that their
young charges shall always keep within the limits of the
- strictest propriety, they, at the same time, take part in
all sports, organize games, and do everything in their
power to foster the love for exercise. The play-ground
is a broad, level, eight-acre field, well supplied with turn-
ing poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all
other necessary gymnastic apparatus. That the boys
make good use of them can be seen from their healthy,
happy appearance, which invariably attracts the notice
of visitors. Connected with the play-ground is a brick
play-hall, 160 feet long and heated by steam. In this
hall the boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend
the clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and
convenience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few
days. Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care
is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the
clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES.
There are two societies in the Minim Department; that
of the Guardian Angels or the Sanctuary, which has for
its object to supply servers for the Church services, and
the .Sorin Association, which has been established with a
view to give the pupils a start, as early as possible, in
elocution. The society is presided over by one of the
professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are
held once a week, after school hours. These meetings
are a source of pleasure as well as of profit. The mem-
bers prepare original compositions, deliver declamations,
are trained to debate, etc. Only the best behaved and
more advanced in studies are admitted to membership.
To encourage this young literary society, a Gold Medal
194
BULLETIN OE THE
for Elocution is annually awarded at Commencement to
the most deserving member.
GENERAL REMARKS.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to students more
advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to pun-
ishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern by kind-
ness and gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense
of honor. The names of all whose conduct and applica-
tion to studies are satisfactory appear on the Roll of
Honor and on the Roll of Class Honors. To find his name
mentioned in these rolls, is found to be as great a reward
for the deserving pupil, as its non-appearance is a pun-
ishment for the undeserving.
Then, too, there is a Gold Medal awarded at the end
of two full years to those whose deportment has been
unexceptionable during that period. As this fact is
made known to the Minim immediately after his entrance,,
he generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view
to receiving an Honor. The greatest care is taken
to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort
is made to foster respect and affection for parents, to
whom they are expected to write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims
is their complete separation from the order students. A
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall,
affording ample accommodations for over one hundred
pupils, is devoted to their use. It is four stories in
height, one hundred and fifty feet long, and forty-five
feet wide, heated by steam, supplied throughout with
the Edison incandescent electric light, and provided with
hot and cold water. The ceiling in the study hall, class-
rooms and sleeping appartments is fifteen feet high. The '
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
195
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant
light and ventilation. The Study-hall commands a
charming view from each of its eleven large windows.
It is tastefully decorated with statuary, pictures, plants,
etc. Beside the pleasure the Minims derive from study-
ing in this bright, cheerful hall, their tastes are cultured
by coming into contact with objects so refining. Front-
ing the building is a handsome park, which, with its
fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not a little to the
beauty of St. Fdward’s Hall, as well as to the happiness
of its pupils.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy par-
ents and others who frequently write for more detailed
information, will show that, while the Minims have
every advantage to aid them in acquiring a foundation
for future study, they have a home, where they enjoy
the same ease and freedom that they would enjoy under
the care of their mothers. For further information
regarding the School for Minims apply for a special
catalogue.
EXPENSES.
(For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.)
Matriculation Fee (first year only).........$	10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bed-
ding, etc., per session of nearly ten months.. 250.00
Payable in advance as follows :
First Payment,—On Entrance in September :
Matriculation Fee.............................. $	10.00
Board and Tuition............................. 150.00
Deposit on Book and	Stationery Account.......... 5.00
Gymnasium....................................... 2.50
Lecture and Concert	Course	Ticket......... 1.00
Music (optional). For rates see below.
Second Payment,—On January 15th:
Balance on Board and Tuition.................$100.00
196
bulletin: of the
3
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons,
and the use of instrument in this department is $35 ; for
Violin, Guitar or Mandolin, $20.
Pupils who remain, during the two Summer
Vacation Months are charged $40.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if not paid within
ten days after they have been rendered.
Bach pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of
underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pairs of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits of
clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap, and
a hand mirror. This direction concerning clothing is a
suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above supplies
can be procured through the Students’ Office at the
University.
List of Students
198
BULLETIN OF THE
LIST OF STUDENTS.
Matriculating during the Scholastic Year from
September 1905 to June 1906,
Ansoategui, Santiago H.........................Puerto	Rico
Amell, William....................................Illinois
Aronowiski, Casimer J..........................Indiana
Anderson, Robert E................................Ohio
Altgelt, Herman E.............................'... Texas
Ardner, Frank J...................................Ohio
Arnold, William S........................Massachusetts
Applegate, Samuel W..............................Indiana
Aligada, Orencio......................Philippine Islands
Allen, Walter H.................................Illinois
Ade, C, Glen.....................................Indiana
Arnold, Arthur..........................................Illinois
Anderson, J. Clarence......................Indiana
Amadeus, B................................Indiana
Bach, James H.............................Minnesota
Batlie, Evaristo R............................Spain
Bracken, Robert L..........................Illinois
Beacom, Patrick A..............................Iowa
Brady, James S.................................Illinois
Batlle, Jose J....................................Spain
Brown, Michael J...........................Pennsylvania
Bosler, William N..............................Kentucky
Barnett, Bari E.................................Indiana
Biin, Albert...........................................France
Brady, James P.......................................Illinois
Brandell, Albert	V................................Michigan
Burke, William J................................ .... Illinois
Burke. Edmund	J................................Illinois
Burns. Edward.....................................New York
Boyle, Joseph......................................Iowa
Bolger, William A..............................Michigan
Brennan, Daniel T...............................Indiana
Burke, Eugene..................................Illinois
Burke, Thomas..................................Illinois
Brogan, John F«..................................Oregon
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	199
Benz, Othmar J  ........................  Pennsylvania
Bucher, Edmund V..............................Indiana'
Butler, Thomas P...............=..........Pennsylvania
Berteling, John F..............................Indiana
Beckman Rafael A................................Mexico
Babbitt, Bertrand H............................Arizona
Baker, Howard S...............................Michigan
Burke, Cornelius J.............................Indiana
Burns, Clarence W.............................Illinois
Bailey, Guy G.................................Michigan
Boor, Fred T......................................Iowa
Bley, Robert E................................Illinois
Berrigan, Edmund..............................New Vork
Bannon, John M............................Pennsylvania
Bannon, Bernard A.........................Pennsylvania
Burdick, Henry A..................................Ohio
Bennett, George N..............................Montana
Brady, Edward J...............................Illinois
Brooks, William H.............................Illinois
Binz, Frank...................................Illinois
Blum, Raymond J.....................................New	York
Boulton, J. Allan.................................Ohio
Bonham, Edwin D.....................................New	York
Birmingham, Joseph L................................New	York
Baer, Charles A.................................  Iowa
Brown. Vincent J.............................Minnesota
Brenneck, Charles H...........................Illinois
Barry, Richard................................Illinois
Bagby, Claud A................................Colorado
Bolin, Henry J.................................Wyoming
Byrns, Ashton V...............................Michigan
Barsotti, Victor..............................Illinois
Bloss, Richard W.............................Louisiana
Benz, John J..............................Pennsylvania
Barsaloux, Paul K.............................Illinois
Byrne, Paul V.................................Illinois
Byrne, Thomas A.............................. Illinois
Baumgartner, Fred N............................Indiana
Burtt, Fidelis N...............-..............Illinois
Burtt, Millard M..............................Illinois
Byrns, William N..............................Michigan
Brinkmann, Clemens U. F.....................  Illinois
200
BULLETIN OF THE
Broderick, Lester M.............................Indiana
Baca, Horacio C. de............... .............Colorado
Baca, Alfredo C. de............................Colorado
Bunn, Edward L...............................  Illinois
Brady,. George K...............................Illinois
Bertling, Charles N.............................Indiana
Bensberg, William J............................Missouri
Broad, Charles M...............................Illinois
Brennan. Raymond..............................  Indiana
Bentley, Walter................................Illinois
Berriman, Charles S............................New	York
Bensburg, Carl B...............................Missouri
Burke, Edmund.................................Wisconsin
Burke, Hubert.................................Wisconsin
Cosgrove, Terence B..
Canedo, Ignacio......
Canedo, Enrique O....
Corcoran, John J.....
Campbell, Matthew A
Coontz, J. Leo.......
Cushing, John F......
Canedo, Alfonso L--«-
....Illinois
.... Mexico
----Mexico
.. Michigan
W. Virginia
... Missouri
.... Illinois
.... Mexico
Corcuerra, Javier L..............................Mexico
Callaghan, Frank M.............................Illinois
Corbett, James..................................	.Illinois
Cannon, Dominic J..........................Pennsylvania
Carolin, Ralph H...............................Michigan
Carey, William A..............................Wisconsin
Corcoran, Wendell....................... ..'....Illinois
Cunningham, William
Carroll, Fred W....
Corbett, John K....
Caparo, Angel......
Callicrate, Dominic L- •
Curtice, W. H......
Comacho, Alfonso...
Curran, Martin E...
Corcuerra, Juan L..
Cahill, James L....
Caceres, Federico..
Carroll, William M....
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
.......Indiana
.......Peru, South America
.......Indiana
.................Kentucky
. Colombia, South America
.................Idaho
.....Mexico
.....Illinois
.....Peru, South America
.....Ohio
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
201
Clohessy, William J
Crosby, Joseph W ■.
Centlivre, Carl L...
Cabrera, Jose G.....
Cnrren, William J ....
Cutler, William McL
Crawford, Peter.....
Condon, John J......
Conley,' Robert T....
Cahill, Kieran.......
Pennsylvania
. Minnesota
..... .Indiana
Philippine Islands
.....New Mexico
.....Iowa
.....New York-
.....Illinois
.....Michigan
.....Indiana
Cooke, Arthur J.............................New York
Colahan, William P. ....................Pennsylvania
Cullinan, Daniel A....................  Pennsylvania
Cullinan, Edward J......................Pennsylvania
Craig, Leo F............................South	Dakota
Clear, Eugene C. .
Cajulis, Felix S...
Collier, Francis T.
.........Illinois
Philippine Islands
...........Canada
Cunningham, James V.............................Illinois
Cleary, Edward P-.............................Illinois
Casey, John D.................................Michigan
Cull, Francis X...........'.....................  Ohio
-'Conlin, Leo J............................  Minnesota
Carr, Harry W.................................Illinois
Cowles, Charles E.............................Michigan
Concha, M. Francisco...............Peru,	South America
Corrigan, Bartholomew H...........................Mexico
Carroll, George H..................................  Ohio
Connell, James J..............................Rhode	Island
Connor, Peter- F.................................Illinois
Connolly, Edward J.............................  Illinois
Cressy, Sidney A..................................Indiana
Corn, Baizel J....................................Indiana
Cartwright, Marcus..............................Tennessee
Cooley, Willard D..................................  Iowa
Coryell, Perry C.................................Colorado
Cagney, Harry L..................................Illinois
Cartier, Antoine E...............................Michigan
Cotter, William E •. ............................Illinois
Connolly, Raymond A..............................Illinois
Comerford, .John M...............................Illinois
Comerford, George L..............................Illinois
202
bulletin of the
Carter, Lawrence J..................................Illinois
Cassinelli, Alfred	A............................  Illionis
Conaty, Lionel J..................................  Illinois
Carroll, Leslie W...................................Illinois
.s>5~
Diaz, Angel Llano..
Devine, Clement L..
Donovan, William J.
Donovan Richard W..
Dubbs, James A........ .
Draper, William A..
Duque, Alberto.....
Dwan, Joseph A........ .
Downs, William R...
Downs, Morris A....
Dolan, Sam M.......
Dupen, Francis L...
Diskin, Michael A..
Dant, Ralph F..........
Delehanty, Thomas M ...
Donavan, Daniel M......
Donovan, Cornelius.....
Donohue, Thomas W....
Doremus, Charles.......
Donahue, Wesley........
Devers, John...........
Donahue, Joseph A......
Donovan, Thomas........
Dannemiller, Frank T...
Drumm, Arthur G........
Dilday, Noble B........
Dent, Alfred C.........
Derrick, Francis.......
Dirks, John F..........
Duarte, Adolfo M.......
Duncan, Walter J.......
Dierssen, Herbert O....
Donnelly, Ambrose B. C
'Donovan, Harmor V....
Depew, Pamphile C. •...
Dodson, Morton B.......
Donovan, Rupert D......
..........Havana, Cuba
...................Ohio
..........South Dakota
.Illinois
..................Illinois
.Illinois
.... Peru. South America ;
...............Illinois
.Pennsylvania.........।
........   Pennsylvania
..................Oregon.1
..................Wisconsin	■
...........Pennsylvania
.... District of Columbia
................Kentucky	-
............... New York
............Mississippi
...............Illinois
....................France
...............Illinois	‘
...............Pcnnsylyania	'
................Indiana
...............Illinois
...................Ohio
...........Pennsylvania
................Indiana
...............Minnesota.>
...........Pennsylvania
.....Colorado
Colombia, South America
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
...............Michigan
.....Pennsylvania
..............Michigan.'
.............  Illinois
...............Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
203
Davis, Howard C..........................    Indiana
Data, Mauro M......................Philippine	Islands
Dougherty, Ezra I......................  West	Virginia
Damanski, Leo...............................New	York-'
Dillon, Lee S.............................  Colorado
Dee, William T...........................................Illinois
Devitt, George P.................................Illinois
Darst, William................................  Illinois
Duque, Carlos A.....................Pern,	South America
Drew, Charles B. P............................  New	York
Davison, F. McIntosh.............................Illinois
Doyle, Nicholas M................................Canada
Davin, John W • • •.............................New	York
Duffey, John F................................Wisconsin
Dalton, Richard W...............................Indiana
Davis, Clark W................................  Indiana
Davis, Alfred McK.............................  Indiana
Dillon, Thomas A.............................  Illinois
Dee, Samuel A..................................Illinois
Diener, John V................................Wisconsin
Eckert, John......................................Indiana
Emerson, William G..............................California
East, Carrol W...............................Indiana
Escher, Edward P........................Pennsylvania
Estela, Juan N................Colombia,	South America
Eberhart, Ralph J.............................Illinois
Esch, Gustave W................................Indiana
Estrada, Rafael...........................Pennsylvania
Eggman, Fred W...............................  Indiana
Elfelt, Clifford S.............................Illinois	'
Elfelt, Charles A..............................Illinois	;
Ernest B.......................................Indinna
Fisher, Harold P.......
Fox, Oscar A..........
Feeley, William P......
Fanslec, George D......
Funk, Arthur S..........
Farrabaugh, Gallitzin A
Finnegan, Edward....
Forrestal, Peter..........
... Kentucky	;
....Indiana
....Illinois
....Indiana	I
... Wisconsin
Pennsylvania
....Illinois
.. .Wisconsin
204
bulletin oe the
Faineau, Louis................................  France
Fanneli, Salvatore <?.........................Kentucky
Fritzen, William H.............................Indiana
Flynn, Charles J.........................Massachusetts
Foik, Peter.....................................Canada
Fuller, Leonard M.................................Iowa
Flaherty, James J.............................Illinois
Fitzgibbon, Gerald A..........................Illinois
Farrell, Francis T............................Illinois
Fernandez, Jose E...............................Mexico
Fack, Edward-L.................................Indiana
Foltz, Frank J.................................Indiana
Feig, Ralph S................................  Indiana
Furlong, Leslie P.............................Illinois
Feis, Hans G...................................Germany
Frossard, Emil.........................Indian	Territory
Fox, John McD................................Wisconsin
Foley, William C..............................Illinois
Frudenstein, Alvin R............................Mexico
Freudenstein, Benjamin M........................ Mexico
Follansbee, Russell G.........................Illinois
Follett, Judson G..........................  Minnesota
Fordyce, John M..............................Wisconsin
Fanning, Francis E.............................Indiana
Fanning, Lloyd A.............................  Indiana
Fritch, Louis.................................Illinois
Fritch, Emil................................  Illinois
Gaul, J. Ryan.................................Michigan
Gowrie, William A.................................Cuba
Gallart, JoseP....................................Cuba
Guerra, Samuel J................................Mexico
Guerra, Gustavo I...............................Mexico
Golden, Clayton C.............................Michigan
Galligan, James..............................New York
Goggin, James.................................Michigan
Grande, Rafael F..............................  Mexico
Gagen, Harry E.................................Indiana
Gerrard, Samuel	D............................Indiana
Guerra, Arturo A................................Mexico
Gorman Theodore E............................ Minnesota
Greathouse, Asa	B...........................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
205
Greenslit, Ezra M..
Galligan, William P
Garvey, Harry V...
Gpiffin, Peter M....
Geary, Arthur M...
Garcia, Rufino F....
Gonzalez, Jose L. • • •
Gushurst, Albert F..
Gorman, Patrick A.
.............I<b’m .is
.......Arkars	vs
.......Il	ircrs
.......New.Yo' k
.......Pennsylvania
. .. Philippine Islands
Peru, South America
.......South Dakota
.............Texas
Gross, Harry A..................................Hilinois
Gavigan, Francis J..............................Colorado
Gallart, Juan B.....................................Cuba
Garrity, Reo F..................................Illinois
Garcia, Eorenzo C...........................Neyv Mexico
Garcia, Manuel E............................New Mexico
Gormley, James P................................Illinois
Goltra, Royal N.... ......................South Dakota
Grove? William H................................Illinois
Gray, Neil......................................Maryland
Gray, Reid B..................................  Maryland
Gotfredson, Robert B............................Michigan
Gering, Charles A...............................Illinois
Harris, Thomas M.............................Illinoi '
Healy, Thomas F...............................Illinois
Hammer, Thomas A.............................New York
Hanzel, Francis J............................Minnesota
Hurst, Roscoe P...............................Illinois
Henning, Arthur A.............................Missouri
Hill, Edwin W.................................Illinois
Hanan, J. Frank............................... Indiana
Hanrahan, Frank J.............................Illinois
Hosinski, John S...............................Indiana
Hagerty, Timothy...............................Indiana
Hagerty, Cornelius.............................Indiana
Haggerty, Patrick J.......................Pennsylvania
Hebert, Alfred.....................:..........Michigan
Hanyz, Martin..................................Indiana
^Heiser, Allen J...............................Indiana
Hosinski, Sylvester A..........................Ind'ana
Hutzell, Oscar D.....*.........................Indiana
Hogan, Eeo J......................................Ohio
206
BULLETIN OB THE
Hart, Laurence A.......
Hutchins, William A...
Halloran, Ruel G.......
Hervey, Arthur.........
Hart, William J........
Hamerski, LeoT)........
Harber, Charles S......
Hipolito, Segundo G....
Haney, Charles H.......
Hague, Harry...........
Harrington, Raymond R
Hcban, Martin C.... ...
Halloran, James P......
Heyl, William J.........
Hazinski, Alexander S..
....Pennsylvania
....Ohio
....Utah
....Indiana
.Wisconsin
.Minnesota
....Indiana
Philippine Islands
....Indiana
....Illinois
....Illinois
....Indiana
.South Dakota
.. ... Pennsylvania
....Indiana
Hunt, Andrew L....................................Ohio
Healey, John V.........................New York
Heekin, Walter V..................................Ohio
Hannigan, John J..............................Michigan
Hannon, Leo J...............................New York
Herath, Bred L..................................Illinois
Heeb, Louis B................,................Illinois
Hilton, Albertus A............................Illinois
Hein, Joseph B.............................  Wisconsin
Holladay, Harold N............................Missouri
Hannah, Charles A..........................  .Illinois
Hogg, Raymond D...........................................Illinois
Herr, Stephen H...........................................Illinois
Hilton, Hoyt W............................................Illinois
Jordan, James D...........................Pennsylvania
Johnson, Charles H.........................South	Dakota
Jaskowiak, Wenceslaus I........................Indiana
Joyce, Walter L..............................Wisconsin
Johnson, Robert...............................Missouri
Joyce Thomas M.................................Montana
Juraschek, Max M.................................Texas
Jochem, Philip.............................   Illinois
Jones, Charles W..........................West	Virginia
Jennings, Clarence J......................... Illinois
Keeffe, James T.................................  Iowa
Kasper, Robert A..............................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ring, Charles B ............................Pennsylvania
Kemper, Henry M................................Illinois,
Kenny, Edward J.............................Pennsylvania
Kotte, Albert A.....................................Ohio
Kehoe, Janies P...............................Wisconsin
Kelley, John C..................................Indiana
Kelley, Eouis...................................Indiana
Kanaley, John B..............................New York
Kelley, Maxey J..............................  New	York
Kennedy, Alexander J...........................Michigan
Kasper, William H..............................Illinois
Krost, Gerard N.................................Indiana
Keach, EeRoy J................................Indiana
Kasper, Francis P........................... Illinois
Kelley, Charles H...........................Minnesota
Kinney, John E • • • •...........................Ohio
Kinney, James E..................................Ohio
Knauf, Arthur R...........................  Wisconsin
Kenefick, Matthew J...........................Indiana
Kenefick, James J............................Indiana
Karnopp, Arno W..............................Indiana
Klan, Theo...............................Pennsylvania
Kamm, Adolph X..............................Indiana
Knowlton, Grover.............................Illinois
Kasper, Simeon M................................Illinois
Kelly, Clarence..J...........................  .Illinois
Keefe, Daniel J...............................  Michigan
Kelley, Paul W...................................Indiana
Kobak, Edgar....................................Illinois
Kavanaugh, John R.............................  Illinois
Katz, Harold S.....................................Illinois
Katz, Clarence W...................................Illinois
Kryl, Joseph.......................................Illinois
Keefe, Edward J....................................Michigan
Kryl, John.........................................Illinois
Eouis, B.....................................Indiana
Eally, Addis E..................................Iowa
Eantry, Joseph T..............................Kansas
Eandenberger, Carl H.........................IKinois
Ee^ne^iz, William...............................Ohio
Eahey,Thomas A........................	....	. ..Ohio
208
bulletin of the
Leahey, Thomas A........................  .Indi	na
Lawren oe, Claren ce A......................Ind i an a
Lecroq, John...................................  France-
Lucas, Philip H..................................Indiana
Lunden, Charles de...............................Belgium
Lynch, John D...................................Illinois
Lynch, John J...................................Illinois
Lannan, Dennis...................................Ulin ois
Larranaga, Armando..
Lenertz, John A......
Li cup, Roman.........
Lawless, John C........
Lannon, Samuel B...
Lamb, Rex B...........
Lee, Julius J........
Lawrence, Vincent M
Lawrence, Frances T.
...........Cuba
.......Oklahoma
Philippine Islands
.Illinois
.Illinois
........Michigan
.Colorado
.Ohio
.Ohio
Lange, Bernard H.......................Pennsylvania
Landon, Benson.......................................Illinois
Leslie, Woody H......................................Illinois
Little, Josiah.......................................Illinois
Lawrence, Roscoe B...................................Illinois
Louisell, Clifton M...................................Alabama
Madden, Ralph C..................................Illinois
Madden, Daniel L.................................Illinois
Murray, Francis J................................Illinois
Malloy, Patrick M................................... Iowa
Munson, Frank E..................................Illinois
Maher, Frank......................................Indiana
Mack, Henry P........................................Ohio
Maloney, John T..................................Illinois
Minnick, William F.............................  New	York
Miltner, Charles.................................Michigan
Miltner, John....................................Michigan
Marshall, Charles....................................Ohio
Moloney, William..................................Indiana
Moore, John B....................................Illinois
Malloy, Bernard................................  Illinois
Monaghan, Bdward J...........................Pennsylvania
Moreno, Manuel F.................................  Mexico
Mendez, Jose A...................................  Mexico
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	209
Miller,.Martin H.......
Milne, Guy W...........
Muriel, Manuel V.......
Milner, Jay S..........
Medrano, Higinio J...
Marquez, Michael J.. .
Martinez, Hermilio ....
Miles, Joseph T........
Miles, Warren C........
Moran, John B..........
Magnus, Clarence P...
Murphy, John W.........
Murphy, John P.........
May, Henry E...........
Mullen, Cyril J........
Madden, Prank...........
Murray, John J...........
Miller, Hugh E...........
Maroney, Joseph J........
Maguire, Thomas 0...
Martin, James J........
Munoz, Joseph M.....
Murphy Michael C....
Maurer, Ralph A........
Murphy, John D.........
Murphy, Raymond M.
Martinelli, Gregory E
Morris, Ernest M.......
Meenach, Harry W....
Molina, Alexander E..
Miralles, John J.......
Murray, Charles D....
Mooney, Edward L...
Minotti, Charles R....
Mertes, Albert T.......
Mueller, Adolph S..... -
Mangan, Louis A........
Milins, George A.......
Martin, Lester G.......
Mann, Milton A.........
Martin, Winfred E- . • •
Moran, George..........
....................Ohio
................Illinois
..................Mexico
..................  Utah
....................Cuba
....................Cuba
..................Mexico
..............California
..............California
,...............Michigan
......Illinois
......Ohio
......Indiana
............Rhode Island
Argentina, South America
............Michigan
............Pennsylvania
............Ohio
............Indiana
........................Illinois
............Illinois
..................Mexico
.....Pennsylvania
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Ohio
.....Peru, South America
.....Indiana
.....Washington
.....Peru, South America
.....Cuba
.....Colorado
.....Minnesota
.....West Virginia
... ...Michigan
...........Colorado
.......North Dakota
.................New	York
.....................Missouri
.....................Illinois
.....................Illinois
..................... Illinois
210
BULLETIN OF THE
Mose, Richard. P.O........................Indiana
Makley, Walter L.............................Ohio
Machalinski, Aloysius................Pennsylvania
Murphy, Janies F.....................Pennsylvania
Madarasz, Jesse A........................Colorado
McCarthy, Frank A..........................  Iowa
McFarland, Alexander W.......................Ohio
McCaffrey, John A....................Pennsylvania
McNerny, Lawrence........................Illinois
Mclnerny, Joseph AV.......................Indiana
McAvoy, Thomas P.........................New York
McGlew, Henry J........................... Indiana	*
McCawley, Francis J......................Kentucky
MacCauley, Hugh.......................Rhode Island
McQuaid, William B........................Indiana
McElhone, James......................Pennsylvania
McFaul, Arthur...........................Michigan
McGinn, John..........................Rhode Island
McDonal d, Angus.........................Michigan
McBride, Edmund L....................Pennsylvania
McIntyre, Palmer.........................Illinois
McDonald, Edwin A...........................Texas
McGannon, T. Paul........................New York
McCarty, Franklin B.................Massachusetts
McCoy, John R...........................Wisconsin
McDonough, Harry F.......................Illinois
McNally, Raymond A...........................Ohio
McCallen, Leo J......................Pennsylvania
McDonald, Lawrence.......................Illinois
McDonald, David........................  Illinois
McAleenan, Fred J........................Illinois
McGuinness, Michael J.................New Mexico
McAleenan, Howard W......................Illinois
McMahon, John F.......................South Dakota
McIver, James S..........................New York
McIver, Francis F........................New York
McGreevy, James J.........................Indiana
McDowell, R. Newton....................  Missouri
McDermott, Edward L • ...............Pennsylvania
McFadden, Thomas J.......................Illinois
McMorran, William E......................Illinois
McFarland, Clarence J........................Ohio
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
211
McKinley, Hugh A..............................Indiana
McKinley, Innoc J.............................Indiana
McNair, John G...............................Missouri
McNabb, Clyde L................................Mexico
McGrath, John M..............................Illinois
McMeal, Gerald B.............................Illinois
McNabb, Howard E.............................Illinois
Nieto, Francis G...............................Mexico
Nabers, Theodore H...............................Iowa
Nunn, Isidore C................................  Ohio
Niedbalski, Stanley W.........................Indiana
Noel, Purcell M..............................Michigan
Neyman, Gunther.............................Wisconsin
O’Shea, John P................................Indiana
O’Flynn, Edward F.............................Montana
Oberst, Albert B.............................Kentucky
O’Brien, Simon A.............."...............New	York
O ’ Connell, Ambrose.............................Iowa
Olding, Herman H.............................Kentucky
O’Donnell, Walter..........................  Michigan
O’Donnell, Charles............................Indiana
O’Shea, William...............................Indiana
Ohmer, H. Beckman................................Ohio
Ohmer, Robert F..................................Ohio
Oelericli, Frank J...........................Illinois
Oelerich, Joseph F...........................Illinois
O’Donnell, Aloysius J....................Pennsylvania
O’Gorman, Samuel........................Massachusetts
O’Brien, Karl A..........................Pennsylvania
O’Neill, Richard C..........................Minnesota
O’Brien, William T............................Indiana
Ortiz, Manuel I............................Puerto	Rico
O’Leary, James...............................Illinois
O’Neill, William P............................Indiana
Olston, Francis M.........................West	Virginia
Orozco, Pascual................................Mexico
O’Donnell, T. Raymond.........................Indiana
O’Reilly, Francis W............................Kansas
O’Connell, Thomas B..........................Illinois
212
BULLETIN OF THE
Perce, William E-
Pino, Arthur......
Pohlman, John F
Pryor, Francis....
Perez, John P....
Palomar, Louis. .
Paupa, Joseph....
Paine, Robert E- <
Paz, Daniel de la
Portilla, Angel L-
Powers, LeoF...
............Illinois
Peru, South America
.............Indiana
............Colorado
.......Cuba
.......Mexico
.......Illinois
.......Texas
.. . Philippine Islands
.......Cuba
......... .New York
Papin, Henry L........................................Ohio
Petritz, William B................................Illinois
Prada, Joseph N.....................................Mexico
Probst, Rudolph 0..................................Indiana
Pulver, Herbert R...............................  Illinois
Peil, Edward F...................................Wisconsin
Peurrung, Joseph C
Ohio
Ponce, Alphonsus B
Philippine Islands
Quinlan, James................................Illinois
Quinlan, Joseph...............................Illinois
Quinn, John C.............................Pennsylvania
Quevedo, Manuel G...............................Mexico
Quiros, Francis A...............................Mexico
Quinlan, Norbert A............................Illinois
Quealy, Jay A..................................Wyoming
Roesch, Charles B.............................Indiana
Riordan, Stephen F...........................Illinois
Roberts, Harry N.............................Illinois
Rubio, Marcelino G...............................Cuba
Rennacker, Roy G.............................Illinois
Robinson, William F.......................Mississippi
Roan, Francis J..................................Ohio
Roach, John W..................................  Iowa
Requena, Joseph L..............'...............Mexico
Rogers, John H...............................Illinois
Rothinghouse, Ernest..........................Indiana
Ribeyre, Robert R.............................Indiana
Roa, Manuel A........................Philippine	Islands
Rice, William H...........................Pennsylvania
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	213
Reyes, Carmelo M....
Rempe, George A....
Rowa n, George E.. .
Rowlands, Carl K....
Railton, Raymond A.
Rush, Eugene A......
Riley, Thomas H.....
Ryan, Thomas A......
Ryan, John M........
Rozewicz, Anthony...
Ruof, John..........
Richmond, EeRoy A.
Richmond, Wilfred A
Rubio, Ramon G......
Rempe, Eester G.....
Ressler, Fred A.....
Rousseau, Rafael....
Rieke, Eawrence E • • ■
Reilly, Charles F.... ,
Riley, William J....
Ryan, William P.....
Ryan, William B.....
Rice, Wilfred W.....
Roe, Benjamin.......
Roberts, Thomas B...
Romana, Albert E- • •
Roberts, Godfrey M..
Reasoner, Cherry R..
Roe, Maurice........
Rider, Elroy M......
Robinson, J. Gerard..
Romana, John M......
Philippine Islands
.Illinois
..  .Iowa
.Ohio
.Illinois
.Illinois
..Indiana
.Illinois
.Illinois
..Indiana
.Pennsylvania
.Illinois
....Illinois
.Cuba
.Illinois
.Idaho
.Cuba
..Missouri
... .Massachusetts
..Indiana
.Illinois
.Illinois
..Mississippi
.Illinois
......South Dakota
Peru, South America
South Dakota
. . .Tennessee
......Illinois
.....Indiana
Pennsylvania
Peru, South America


Saley, Robert E.................................. Iowa
Shea, John F.............................Massachusetts
Sinnott, Joseph D...............................Oregon
Sheehan, Clarence J........................    •	Illinois
Silver, Nathan................................Illinois
Simon, Arthur F................................   Cuba
Stopper, Anthony J........................Pennsylvania
Smith, J. Preston.........................Pennsylvania
Shaughnessy, Francis J........................Illinois
214
BULLETIN OF THE
Schwab, Edward A........
Sugita, Francis Y.......
Scales, John J..........
Shenk, Robert R.........
Strauss, Fred H. A......
Symonds, Edward L • • • •
Sawyer, John X..........
Smith, Leonard F........
Shenners, Francis L •. - •
Schubert, Francis J.....
Skopowski, Hippolit J..
Stack, James............
Stuczko, Boleslaus'.....
Steiner, William........
Szamecki, Stanislaus P..
Sobolewski, Wenceslaus
Schumacher, Joseph L • •
Serrano, Peter..........
Sprenger, George W....
Seigler, Frank J........
Stoakes, Lawrence M...
Springer, Albert G......
San Pedro, Manuel R...
Shenefield, Warren D...
Sorg, Claude A..........
Schmitt, Rudolph J......
Schmitt, Alfred H.......
Sexton, Thomas G........
Suarez, Eladio..........
Stuhlfauth, Jacob.......
Schmitt, William C...
Scharps, Arthur L.......
Stout, Walter S.........
Sullivan, Robert B......
St. Claire, Huntington.
Summers, Edward J....
Sheehan, Thomas A....
Symonds, Henry R........
Sickler, Frank J........
Schick, Francis.........
Smith, Charles J........
Smith, Walter L.........
.....Pennsylvania
.....Japan
..... New York
.....Ohio
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Pennsylvania
.Indiana
.....Wisconsin
.Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....New York
.Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Indiana
Philippine Islands
.....Illinois
.....Pennsylvania
.....Pennsylvania
.....Colorado
.....Cuba
.Indiana
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Illinois
.....Cuba
.....Wisconsin
.....Minnesota
.....Illinois
.. Toronto, Canada
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.Indiana
.Ohio
.Illinois
....Illinois
....... .Indiana
.Illinois
.West Virginia
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
215
Sheahan, Joseph G.............................Illinois
Schwalbe, Joseph W............................Illinois
Schwalbe, Oscar H.............................Illinois
Scharps, Lawrence H...........................Illinois
Sanders, Walter............?...................Indiana
Schultz, John.............................South	Dakota
Tobin, Thomas J....
Trevino, Gustavo L-
Toth, Joseph........
Tracy, Leo..........
Tobolski, Stanislaus
Terry, Clifford H....
Trumbull, Selden ..
Talifero, William B.
Talcott, Rodney D..
Teodoro, Joseph.....
Tello, Manuel A.... ,
Tomlinson, John B. .
Thornton, John S-..
Tello, Richard A....
Toohey, James A....
.....South Dakota
.....Mexico
.......Indiana
.....Michigan
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
..... Illinois
.....Indiana
.....Indiana
.. Philippine Islands
Peru, South America
.....Arkansas
.....Minnesota
Peru, South America
.....New York
Uhrich, Maurus J....
Underwood, Eugene
......Washington
Washington, D. C.
Villanueva, Augustine P
Valdes, Joseph E........
Villanueva, Louis S.....
Vernaza, Carlos M.......
Vallejo, Alphonsus......
Vallecilla, Leonard.....
Vanderhoof, Edward S..
Veazey, Oscar E.........
Vernaza, William O....
Von Phul, Carol A.......
Vocke, M. J. William....
Veazey, Louis B.........
Villaflor, Pastor.......
VanCleve, Franklin H...
.......Mexico
.......Philippine Islands
.......Mexico
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
. Colombia, South America
.......Indiana
.......West Virginia
.Colombia, South America
.......Missouri
.......Illinois
.......West	Virginia
.......Philippine Islands
..................Illinois
Wadden, John W......................South	Dakota
Worden, John............................New	York
2l6
BULLETIN OF THE
Waldorf, Rufus W...............................Illinois
Welsh, Feo J...................................Illinois
Watkins, James.................................Michigan
Williams, Eawrence A.......................Pennsylvania
Williams, Harry G...............................Indiana
Wood, Edward E.................................Illinois
Wool verton, Earl E.............................Indiana
Weis, Henry E.................................Wisconsin
Weber, Henry W.................................Illinois
Wrobel, John J..................................Indiana
Wenninger, Francis J............................Indiana
Weisbecker, Aloysius............................Indiana
Whalen, Joseph M...................................Iowa
Woulfe, Thomas R J..............................Indiana
White, Robert L. ..............................Illinois
Womack Harry B.................................Missouri
Woods, James A.................................Colorado
Wilson, Richard B..............................Illinois
Washburn, George E.............................Illinois
Warren, Homer S................................Illinois
Weist, John L................................Washington
Wahlen, Albert H................................Indiana
Wessel, Charles J..................................Ohio
Weber, Charles R...............................Illinois
Walsh, Raymond R...............................Illinois
Wilce, Horace M.............................  .Illinois
White, Carl B.................................Tennessee
Wessel, John H.....................................Ohio
Wessel, Herbert J................................  Ohio
Wiercinski, Nicholas.......................Pennsylvania
Wilezewski, Anthony........................Pennsylvania
Young, Jacob P..................................Indiana
Youngerman, Frank..................................Iowa
Yrisarri, Jacob J............................New	Mexico
Yrisarri, Edward C...........................New	Mexico
Zerhusen, Francis..............................Kentucky
Zink, Charles......................................Ohio
Zink, Francis A....................................Ohio
Zimmer, Harry J............................Pennsylvania
Sixty-Second
Annual Commencement.
Degrees, Honors, Prize Medals*
218
BULLETIN OF THE
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
The Reverend Denis Joseph Stafford, Washington,
D. C.
The Reverend John Thomas O’Connell, Toledo,
• Ohio.
The Reverend Morgan Madden Sheedy, Scranton,
Pennsylvania.
Henry Nicholas Moyer, M. D., Chicago, Illinois.
Frank Allport, M. D., Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
Henry Michael Kemper, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
Edward Hermann Schwab, Loretto, Pennsylvania.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Albert Ernest Blin, Craon, France.
Eugene Paul Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
Charles Louis Doremus, Ploezal, France.
Louis Henry Faineau, Angers, France.
Edward Joseph Finnegan, Chicago, Illinois.
James Henry Galligan, Tarrytown, New York.
Thomas Aloysius Hammer, New York City.
Cornelius Joseph Hagerty, South Bend, Indiana.
John Marie Lecroq, Goven, France.
Hugh Bartholomew MacCauley, Providence, R. I.
John Connor McGinn, Providence, Rhode Island.
Charles Leo O’Donnell, Kokomo, Indiana.
William Charles O’Brian, Columbus, Ohio.
Francis Xavier Zerhusen, Covington, Kentucky.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Walter James O’Donnell, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
John Michael Ryan, Chicago, Illinois.
tJNlVERSlTY OF NOTRE DAME.	219
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on
Addis Bmmett Lally, Denison, Iowa.
Alexander William McFarland, Fima, Ohio.
John Francis Shea, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
John Francis Cushing, Chicago, Illinois.
James Allen Dubbs, Mendota, Illinois.
William Patrick Feeley, Joliet, Illinois.
Harold Preston Fisher, Paducah, Kentucky.
Samuel Joseph Guerra, San Luis Potosi, Mexico.
Albert Alton Kotte, Cincinnati, Ohio.
John Patrick O’Shea, South Bend, Indiana.
Maur us Joslyn Uhrich, Spokane, Washington.
Anthony James Stopper, Williamsport, Pennsyl-
vania.
Harry Norman Roberts, Bloomington, Illinois.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on
Matthew Axton Campbell, Wheeling, West Vir-
ginia.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engi-
neering was conferred on
Arthur Pino, Arequipa, Peru, South America.
Charles Edward Roesch, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Nathan Silver, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architectural En-
gineering was conferred on
Evariste Raymond Batlie, Barcelona, Spain.
Joseph Joachim Batlie, Barcelona, Spain.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science was conferred on
Arthur Funk, Lacrosse, Wisconsin.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con- *
ferred on
Emilius Morancy McKee, Versailles, Kentucky.
220
BULLETIN OF THE
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Michael Joseph Brown, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Terence Byrne Cosgrove, Seneca, Illinois.
Richard William Donovan, Chicago, Illinois.
Clayton Charles Golden, Monroe, Michigan.
Francis John Hanzel, New Prague, Minnesota.
Roscoe Patterson Hurst, Hudsonville, Indiana.
Thomas Francis Healy, Rochelle, Illinois.
Thomas Michael Harris, Lee, Illinois.
Daniel Lawrence Madden, Chicago, Illinois.
Ralph Cleveland Madden, Mendota, Illinois.
Frank Artemus McCarthy, Britt, Iowa.
Joseph Walter Mclnerny, South Bend, Indiana.
Lawrence Michael McNerney, Bigin, Illinois.
Brnest Melvin Morris, South Bend, Indiana.
Albert Benedict Oberst, Owensboro, Kentucky.
William Patrick O’Neill, Mishawaka, Indiana.
William Bdward Perce, Hanover, Illinois.
Stephen Francis Riordan, Chicago, Illinois.
Francis Joseph Shaughnessy, Amboy, Illinois.
Joseph Bdward Valdes, Manila, Philippine Islands.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on
Michael John Marquez, Havana, Cuba.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on
Samuel Wade Applegate, South Bend, Indiana.
Janies Sylvester Brady, Chicago, Illinois.
Martin Clement Hoban, South Bend, Indiana.
Michael John Marquez, Havana, Cuba.
Bugene Alphonsus Rush, Chicago, Illinois.
John Worden, Ossining, New York.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical Engi-
neering were awarded to
Charles Henry Brenneck, Somonauk, Illinois.
John Bell Moran, Detroit, Michigan.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
221
Theodore Hermann Nabers, Fort Madison, Iowa.
Jolin Charles Quinn, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Jacob Stuhlfauth, Wausau, Wisconsin.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to '
Clarence William Burns, Alexis, Illinois,
Richard William Dalton, Huntington, Indiana.
Frank Thierry Dannemiller, Canton, Ohio. .
Emil Frossard, Marietta, Indian Territory.
Rex Edward Lamb, Buchanan, Michigan.
B. Louis, Notre Dame, Indiana.
John Daniel Lynch, Monmouth, Illinois.
Francis Joseph Oelericli, Chicago, Illinois.
Louis Palomar, Guadalajara, Mexico.
Francis Quiros, Sonora, Mexico.
Rudolph Jacob Schmitt, Toledo, Ohio.
Frederick Henry Strauss, Chicago, Illinois.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan,
of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Course, Senior year, was
awarded to
Charles Leo O’Donnell, Kokomo, Indiana.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, for the student of Carroll Hall having
the best record for the scholastic year, was
awarded to
Richard Bruce Wilson, Chicago, Illinois.
The Meehan Gold Medal, for English Essays, presented
by Mrs. James Meehan, Covington, Kentucky,
was awarded to
Charles Leo O’Donnell, Kokomo, Indiana.
222
BULLETIN OF THE
The Breen Gold Medal, for Oratory, presented by the
Hon. William P. Breen, LL. D., ’02, of Fort
Wayne, was awarded to
Bdward Francis O’Flynn, Butte, Montana.
The Ellsworth C» Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
A. S. Hughes, Denver, Colorado, for the best
record in Mathematics (Civil Bn gineering Course)
was awarded to
Harry Norman Roberts, Bloomington, Illinois.
The O’Keefe Gold Medal, for the best essay on a legal
subject, presented by Mr. P. J. O’Keefe, of Chi-
cago, was awarded to
Michael Joseph Brown, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal, for Chris-
tian Doctrine, was awarded to
Thomas Patrick Butler, Allegheny, Pennsylvania.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral Course
A. was awarded to
Jacob Philip Young, Huntington, Indiana.
The Quinn Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral
B., ist Division, presented by the Reverend
John J. Quinn, A. B., ’83, pastor, St. John’s
Church, Peoria, Illinois, was awarded to
Beonard Michael Fuller, Muscatine, Iowa.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in
Moral Course B., 2d Division, presented by the
Reverend M. J. Fitzsimmons, Rector of Holy
Name Cathedral, Chicago, was awarded to
Guy Gibson Bailey, Mackinac Island, Michigan.
The Mooney Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral
B., 3rd Division, presented by the Reverend
Nathan J. Mooney, ’77, Rector of St. Columb-
kille’s Church, Chicago, was awarded to
Felix Segundo Cajulis, Cavite, Philippine Islands.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	223
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, Second Course, presented by the Reverend
F. J. Barry, Chancellor of the Archdiocese of
Chicago, was awarded to
Wilford Washington Rice, Vicksburg, Mississippi.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in the
Commercial School was awarded to
Frank Thierry Dannemiller, Canton, Ohio.
The Gold Medal for the best record in the last two years
of the Preparatory Latin Courses was awarded to
Sylvester Aloysius Hosinski, South Bend, Indiana.
Seventy-five Dollars in Gold, for debating work, was
awarded as follows:
Thirty-Five Doeears to Cornelius Joseph Hag-
erty, South Bend, Indiana.
Twenty-Five Doeears to William Augustine
Bolger, Clifford, Michigan.
Fifteen Doeears to Wesley James Donahue, Chi-
cago, Illinois.
Fifty Dollars in Gold, presented by the Reverend Louis
Moench, Mishawaka, Indiana, to the victors in the
debate between the University of Notre Dame
and Georgetown University, was awarded to
Gallitzin Aloysius Farabaugh, Chambersburg, Penn-
sylvania.
Terence Byrne Cosgrove, Seneca, Illinois.
Patrick Mervan Malloy, Salix, Iowa.
The Barry Elocution Medal in the First Section donated
by the Honorable P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was
awarded to
Hoyt Watson Hilton, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for ^locution in the Second Section was
awarded to	*■'
John Lambert Weist, Walla Walla, Washington,
224
BULLETIN OK THE
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
The Abercrombie Gold Medal for General Excellence
was awarded to
Charles R. Weber, Chicago, Illinois.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Elocution was awarded to
Erancis J. Schick, Terre Haute, Indiana.
The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to
Eidelis N. Burtt, Galesburg, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was
awarded to
Clyde L. McNabb, Chicago, Illinois.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Antoine E. Cartier, Chicago, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Composition was awarded to
Arthur Arnold, Chicago, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
William H. Grove, Decatur, Illinois.
The Silver Medal for Letter-Writing was awarded to
Charles J. Smith, Chicago, Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	225
FIRST HONOR AWARDS
[First Honors are awarded to students of Sorin, Corby, Brownson,
and St. Joseph Halls who have attained an average of at least 90
per cent, for scholarship and 90 per cent, for deportment during
the scholastic year. The first honor awarded for the first year
takes the form of Honorable Mention ; that awarded for two
years of satisfactory work is a gold medal. This medal may be
renewed from year to year.]
First Honor Gold Medals were awarded to
Fvariste Raymond Batlie, Barcelona, Spain. (Re-
newal.)
Fdward Patrick Cleary, Momence, Illinois.
James Vincent Cunningham, Chicago, Illinois.
Francis Derrick, Oil City, Pennsylvania.
Frank Artemus McCarthy, Britt, Iowa.
Franklin B. McCarty, Lynn, Massachusetts.
Fdwin Alexander McDonald, Houston, Texas. (Re-
newal.)
David McDonald, Seward, Illinois.
Anthony James Stopper, Williamsport, Pennsylvania.
Frank Aloysius Zink, Canton, Ohio. (Renewal.)
Honorable Mention was accorded to
Michael Joseph Brown, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
Thomas Patrick Butler, Allegheny, Pennsylvania.
Francis Lysaght Dupen, Superior, Wisconsin.
William Patrick Feeley, Joliet, Illinois.
James Dominick Jordan, Scranton, Pennsylvania.
Alexander William McFarland, Lima, Ohio.
Stephen Francis Riordan, Chicago, Illinois.
Joseph Fdward Valdes, Manila, Philippine Islands.
Michael Aloysius Diskin, Scottdale, Pennsylvania.

226
BULLETIN OF THE
Leonard Michael Fuller, Muscatine, Iowa.
William Ambrose Hutchins, Columbus, Ohio.
John Bernard Kanaley, Weedsport, New York.
Palmer McIntyre, Hanover, Illinois.
Robert Fasold Ohmer, Day ton, Ohio.
H. Beckmann Ohmer, Dayton, Ohio.
Robert Btris Bley, Bunker Hill, Illinois.
Felix Segundo Cajulis, Cavite, Philippine Islands.
Rufino F. Garcia, Magsingal, Philippine Islands.
Leo Dominick Hamerski, Winona, Minnesota.
Daniel de la Paz, Gapan, Philippine Islands.
Carmelo M. Reyes, Lipa, Philippine Islands.
Joseph Teodoro, Bay Laguna, Philippine Islands.
Jacob Philip Young, Huntington, Indiana,
Francis Xavier Cull, Miamisburg, Ohio.
DEPQRTMENT PRIZES.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable.
Sil/er Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of St.
Edward’s Hall who have spent two full years at Notre Dame and
whose deportment has given general satisfaction.
Certificates for excellent deportment are awarded to pupils
of Carroll and St. Edward’s Halls who have been in residence
at least two terms, and whose deportment during the whole time
has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to
John B. Gallart, Guantanamo, Cuba. (Renewal.)
Stephen H. Herr, Chattsworth, Illinois.
Bernard H. Lange, Oil City, Pennsylvania.
Edward L. McDermott, Kane, Pennsylvania.
William Patrick Ryan, Lake Forest, Illinois.
University of tfoTREDAME.
227
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to
Raymond A. Connolly, Chicago, Illinois.
William E. Cotter, Chicago, Illinois.
George L. Comerford, Minooka, Illinois.
Neil Gray, Detroit, Michigan.
Albertus Hilton, Chicago, Illinois.
Edgar Kobak, Chicago, Illinois.
Clifton Louisell, Manistee, Alabama.
George A. Milins, New York City.
John McNair, St. Louis, Missouri.
T. R. O’Donnell, Montpelier, Indiana.
Francis W. O’Reilly, Topeka, Kansas.
Edward F. Peil, Racine, Wisconsin.
Walter L. Smith, Round Bottom, West Virginia.
Richard Tello, Cuzco, Peru, South America.
Charles R. Weber, Chicago, Illinois.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to
Godfrey M. Roberts, Armour, South Dakota.
Herbert R. Pulver, Chicago, Illinois.
CARROLL HALL.
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to
Richard Bloss, New Orleans, Louisiana.
Manuel Concha, Cuzco, Peru, South America.
Lee Dillon, Denver, Colorado.
James Gormley, Chicago, Illinois.
Harry Meenach, Seattle, Washington.
John Miralles, Guantanamo, Cuba.
Raphael Rousseau, Guantanamo, Cuba.
William Bernard Ryan, Cairo, Illinois.
228
BULLETIN OE THE
ST, EDWARD’S HALL,
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to
George K. Brady, Chicago, Illinois.
Horace C. de Baca, Denver, Colorado.
Alfred C. de Baca, Denver, Colorado.
Charles S. Berrinian, New York City.
Charles M. Broad, Chicago, Illinois.
Charles N. Berteling, South Bend, Indiana.
John M. Comerford, Minooka, Illinois.
Alfred A. Cassinelli, Chicago, Illinois.
Perry C. Coryell, New Castle, Colorado.
Lionel J. Conaty, Chicago, Illinois.
Lawrence J. Carter, Chicago, Illinois.
Lloyd A. Fanning, Chicago, Illinois,
Judson M. Fordyce, Butternut, Wisconsin.
Louis M. H. Fritch, Chicago, Illinois.
Robert B. Gotfredson, Detroit, Michigan.
Charles A. Hannah, Chicago, Illinois.
Joseph F. Hein, Tony, Wisconsin.
John H. M. Holladay, Greenville, Missouri.
Harold S. Katz, Chicago, Illinois.
Clarence W. Katz, Chicago, Illinois.
Joseph Kryl, Chicago, Illinois.
Bdward J. Keefe, Detroit, Michigan.
Lester G. Martin, St. Louis, Missouri.
Winfred B. Martin, Chicago, Illinois.
George B. Moran, Chicago, Illinois.
Richard P. C. Mose, Bnglish Lake, Indiana.
Clyde L- McNabb, Chicago, Illinois.
John J. M. McGrath, Mexico City, Mexico.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
229
Mil ton A. Mann, Rogers Park, Illinois.
Thomas B. O’Connell, Chicago, Illinois.
Joseph C. Peurrung, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Girard J. Robinson, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Joseph G. Sheahan, Winnetka, Illinois.
Louis B. Veazey, Pratt, West Virginia.
Carl B. White, Chattanooga, Tennessee.
BULLETIN OF THE
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY.
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no need
of money. The University is, nevertheless, absolutely
without endowment, and its work is seriously hampered
because it has no resources except the fees of students.
There are two scholarships, and the interest from these
foundations is used in educating and boarding two
students.
There are, from conservative figures, 3,500 Catholic
students in the non-Catholic colleges of America, and very
many of these will lose their faith, and all will be weak-
ened in that faith, because our people look upon collegiate
institutions as the property of private corporations which
are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys who can
not pay the expense of education, and who therefore are
obliged to go to non-Catholic colleges to the detriment
of their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and
board a student as long as the University exists. As
one student is graduated another can take his place. The
founder of the scholarship, of course, always has the
privilege of appointing the student.
We lack money for a library building, and for two
more dwelling - halls like Sorin Hall.
Foundations for scholarships are a pressing need.
There is no library fund for the purchase of new
books.
The names of benefactors will be given to all founda-
tions.
BEQUESTS SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS FORM:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
I give, devise, and bequeath to the UNIVERSITY
OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC, an institution incor-
porated under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
located at Notre Dame, Indiana............


BULLETIN OF THE
INDEX,
Admission to the Colleges, Requirements for............... 26
Admission to the :
College of Arts and Letters........................36,	37
College of Science.................................42>	43
College of Engineering.............................56,	57
College of Architecture............................74»	75
College of Law........................................ 85
Advanced Standing, Admission to........................26,	85
Anatomy (Human), Courses in...............................148
Architecture, The College of.............................. 72
Architecture, Programs in the College of..76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81
Architecture, Courses in................131,	132, 133, 134, 135
Astronomy, Course in......................................136
Athletics..........................................■ 24, 31
Bachelors’ Degrees........................................ 27
Bacteriology, Course in..................................150
Biology, The Department of........................18,	19, 48
Biology, Program in the Department of................  48,	49
Board of Trustees.......................................... 4
Board and Lodging..........................................33
Botany, Courses in....................*.........144,	145, 146
Buildings, Description of...............................12-24
Calendar................................................... 3
Chemistry, Courses in..............139,	140, 141, 142, 143, 144
Chemistry, The Department of...........................13,	46
Chemistry, Program in the Department of....................47
Christian Doctrine, Courses in............................162
Church, The................................................12
Civil Engineering, The Department of...................13,	58,
Civil Engineering, Program in the Department of............60
Civil Engineering, Courses in.. 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122, 123
Civil Government..........................................177
Classics, Program in the Department of.....................38
Commencement, The Sixty-Second............................217
Commercial School...............................188,	189, 190
Concerts...................................................32
Courses of Instruction.................................93,	171
Degrees................................................27,	217
Directory of the University..............................   2
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	233
Directors of Halls............................................ 6
Discipline...................................................30
Doctor of Philosophy, The Degree of..........................29
Drawing (Artistic), Courses in.....................156,	157, 158
Drawing, (Mechanical), Courses in...............152,	153, 154, 155
Drawing (Preparatory), Courses in............................184
Economics, Courses in........................................no
Electrical Engineering, The Department of..............14. 66, 69
Electrical Engineering, Programs in....................68, 69, 70
Electrical Engineering, Courses in.................128,	129, 130
Elocution, Courses in...................................111,112
Engineering, The College of..................................54
Engineering Hall.....................................  20
English, Courses in...................101,	102, 103, 172, 173
Entrance Requirements.......26, 36, 37, 42, 43, 56, 57, 74, 75, 85
Equipment and Apparatus..............13,	14, 15, 16, 17, 18,
19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 51, 73
Ethics, Courses in.........................................95
Expenses.......................................33,	34, *95, J96
Executive Officers.......................................   5
Faculty, Lists of the..................................7, 164
Fees...........................33,	34, 44, 46, 48, 52, 55, 74, 166
French (Modern), Courses in......................105,	174,-175
French (Old), Courses in..................................107
Geology, Courses in  .....................................137
German, Courses in.............................. 104,	175, 176
Graduate Courses................ 95,	98, 101, 103, 109, 111, 115
Graduation Fees.......................................  34
Grammar School........................................ 181
Greek, Courses in.............................96, 97, 98, 172
Gymnasium...............................................24
Historical Sketch of the	University.....................11
History and Economics,	Program	in the Department of...40
History, Courses in.........................108,	109, 176, 177
Honors and Medals....................................... 217
Infirmary, The........................
Italian, Courses in...................
Instructors in the Preparatory School
Instruction, the System of............
Laboratory Fees.......................
Laboratories..........................
Latin, Courses in.....................
....................... 24
.......................107
.......................164
.....................25,	86
44, 46, 48, 52, 55, 74,. 166
.................13,	22, 51
.........99, too, 101, 171
234
BULLETIN OK THE
Law, The College of.........................................84
Law, The Program in the College of..................91
Lectures....................................................32
Letters, Program in the Department of.......................39
Libraries...............................................12,	89
Lodging, Board, and.........................................33
Logic, Courses in...........................................94
Masters’ Degrees............................................28
Mathematics (Pure), Courses in.......113, 114, 115, 178, 179, 180
Mechanical Engineering, The Department of.............61, 64, 65
Mechanical Engineering, The Programs in ..............63, 64, 65
Mechanical Engineering, Courses in.... 123, 124, 125, 126, 127, 128
Medals, Prize..............................................217
Metaphysics, Courses in.................................94,	95
Microscopy, Courses in..................\..............147,	148
Minims, School for.........................................192
Museum....................................................  19
Music, Courses in.............................159,	160, 161, 162
Observatory, The.........................................   23
Officers, Executive........................................  5
Oratory, Courses in...................................  in,	112
Pharmacy, The Department of.............................50,	51
Pharmacy, Programs in the Department of.....................52
Pharmacy, Courses in..............................150,	151, 152
Philosophy, Courses in..................................94,	95
Physics, Courses in..................................  137,	138
Physiology (Human), Courses in.............................149
Political Economy, Courses in.............................,110
Political Science, Courses in...........................no,	in
Politics, Courses in........................................no
Portuguese, Courses in.....................................107
Preparatory School, The....................................166
Preparatory Courses of Instruction.....................171-180
Professors in the Colleges.................................  7
Programs of Studies...................38,	39, 40, 45, 47, 49, 52,
60, 63, 65, 70, 79, 80, 81, 91
Provencal, Courses in.....................................107
Psychology, Courses in....................................94
Requirements for Admission.............................26,	27
Romance Languages, Courses in..................104,	105, 106, 107
Science, The Program in General...........................44,	45
Science (Preparatory), Courses in..............181,	182, 183, 184
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
235
Science Hall..................
Shopwork, Courses in..........
Social Science, Courses in....
Spanish, Courses in...........
Special Students..............
Students, List of.............
Theses.........................
Title (Legal), of the University-
Trustees, Board of............
Tuition.......................
University of Notre Dame......
Zoology, Courses in...........
..............:...........13
........................’....................130,	I3I-
.....................................................in
..........................I06
..........................85
.........................198
29, 44, 46, 51, 59, 62, 67, 87
..........................11
.......................... 4
.....................-33
......................II
.....................146,	147
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Is a 28-page paper devoted to the interests of the stu-
dents and published by them every week during term -
time. The journal is in the hands of a student board of
editors and students do all the writing for it. Work
done for The Scholastic is regarded as supplementary to
the theoretical work of the English courses; hence the
character of the articles,—essays on literary subjects,
biographical sketches, short stories, exercises in verse,
book-reviews, etc. As contributors are expected to pre-
pare their own copy for the press and to do their own
proof-reading, they gain no small amount of practical’
experience.
Although The Scholastic is published chiefly for the
sake of the students attending the University, their
parents and all former students will see matters of interest
in its columns. Reports of the popular lecture course and
of events happening at Notre Dame and other colleges,
personal notices, athletic notes, reviews of the work
done in the debating and in the classes, find place in
the paper and keep parents and others informed about
matters that concern their children and friends. ■
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for J 1.50 per
annum.
Address all commuieations to	’
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana*
St. Mary's College and
Academy
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
FOR YOUNG WOMEN AND GIRLS
CONDUCTED BY THE SISTERS OF THE HOLY CROSS.
(One Mile West of the University of Notre Dame.)
Beautifully and healthfully located on an eminence overlooking
the banks of the St. Joseph River. Bn joys a national patronage.
All the branches of a thorough English, Classical, Scientific and Com-
mercial Course with Modern Languages taught. On completion of
the College Programs students are entitled to the Degree A. B.,
Litt. B., or B. S.
THE PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT. Here pupils are trained
in the regular, Special and College Preparatory Courses.
THE MINIM DEPARTMENT provides for the tender care, and
special instruction of children under the age of twelve years.
THE CONSERVATORY OF MUSIC is conducted on the plan of
the best Classical Conservatories.
THE ART DEPARTMENT is modeled after the leading Art
Schools of Europe.
GYMNASIUM with resident director, a graduate of Dr. Sargent’s
Normal School of Physical Training, Cambridge, Mass. Over two
hundred acres devoted to walks and outdoor sports.
The AIM of moral, intellectual and physical training is to prepare
young women for lives of usefulness. The constant growth of the
-Academy has necessitated the erection of additional fine buildings
with latest Hygienic equipments. Moderate Cost. For Catalogue
anl information apply to
THE DIRECTRESS,
ST. MARY’S ACADEMY, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
St. Mary’s, Notre Dame, Ind.
■	'	■	. I
' . 1
■ ■ ■- ■ ■
It is desired that every Graduate receive a copy of .	;
the Bulletin. The faculty will therefore consider it	j
a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus changes
his address.
On application to the President bulletins will be
sent to all who are interested in the work of the ..................
University..........................................................;