SERIES. III.	Published Quarterly by .	,
NUMBER L	University
BULLETIN
OF THE ; . \
■ U NI VER S IT Y O F ■ N.OT R E D A M E
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame, Indiana
Series III.
Number I.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL CATALOGUE
a
1906-1907
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
July, 1907
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY — Address :
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address ■
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hade in which the student lives should, be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend.

CALENDAR FOR 1907-1903
1907
SEPTEMBER 10 J 11, 12. J 13.	^Entrance Examinations. Colleges open. Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls.	'
22.	
	
OCTOBER	1. 13.	Examinations of Conditioned Students. Founder’s Day. No classes.
28, 29. 29.	Bi-Monthly Examinations. Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
NOVEMBER 1. 28.	Feast of all Saints. No classes. Thanksgiving Day. No classes.
DECEMBER 7. 8. 10.	The William P. Breen Medal Orations; Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No classes. President’s Day. No classes.
18, 19. 20. 1908	Bi-Monthly Examinations. Christmas Vacation Begins.
JANUARY	3.	Colleges open.
FEBRUARY 7. 22.	State Oratorical Contest. Washington’s Birth-day. No classes.
28, 29.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
MARCH	17. 19.	St. Patrick’s Day. No classes. St. Joseph’s Day. No classes.
APRIL	19. 20.	Easter. No Easter Vacation. Easter Monday. No classes.
28, 29.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
MAY	20. 30.	Latest Date for handing in Prize Essays and Graduating Theses in all the Colleges. Decoration Day. No classes.
JUNE	1. <	f The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations. 1 The Patrick T. Barry ^ledal Recitations.
8-13. 14.	Examination of Candidates for Graduation. Baccalaureate Sermon.
15-17. 17. 18.	General Examinations.	, Commencement. Bachelors’ Orations. Com- mencement Address, 8:00 P. M. Graduation Exercises, 8:00 A. M.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCEEEOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.,
treasurer.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
REV. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE - PRESIDENT.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN JOSEPH REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Rev. M. J. McGARRY, c. s c.,
PREFECT OF RELIGION.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.

DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
Rkv. JAMES FRENCH, C. S. C.
R^v. GEORGE O’CONNOR, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
R^v. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.
R^v. LEO HEISER, C. S. C.
R^v. GEORGE MARR, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL
Rev. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.
Mr. WILLIAM O’BRIEN, C. S. C.
Mr. JOHN DELAUNAY, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.
Bro. VINCENT, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.
Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
Bro. GEORGE, C. S. C.
Bro. LOUIS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL
Bro. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CASIMIR, C. S. C.
__
ST. EDWARD'S HALL
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C,
Bro. ERNEST, C. S. C
5
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.	.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
PHILOSOPHY.
' Rev. MARTIN JOSEPH REGAN, C. S. C.,
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
ELOCUTION.
Rev. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
BIOLOGY AND GEOLOGY.
Rev. JOHN BERNARD SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
LATIN AND GREEK,
c
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
CHEMISTRY AND MINERALOGY.
Rev. MICHAEE QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
ENGLISH.
rev. MICHAEL MATTHIAS OSWALD, C. S. C.,
GREEK.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
HISTORY.
Rev. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
CHEMISTRY AND BOTANY.
Rev. GEORGB JOSBPH MARR, C. S. C.y
LATIN.
Rev. LEO JOSBPH HBISBR, C. S^ C.,
PHYSIOLOGY AND BACTERIOLOGY.
Rev. TIMOTHY JOHN CROWLEY, C. S. C.;
' ENGLISH.
Rev. JAMBS McMANUS, C. S. C.,
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE.
JOHN BAPTIST DELAUNAY, C. S. C.,
LATIN.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OE THE DEPARTMENT OE MUSIC.
Bro. GBRARD, C. S. C.,
PIANO.
JAMBS BARNHAM BDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
LIBRARIAN.
DAMIS PAUL,
PIANO AND VIOLIN.
WILLIAM HOYNBS, A. M., LL. D.,
LAW.
MARTIN McCUE, M. S , C. E.,
CIVIL ENGINEERING AND ASTRONOMY.
TIMOTHY EDWARD HOWARD, A. M., EE. D.,
.	LAW.
ERANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S.,.
DRAWING.
JBROMB JOSBPH GRBBN, M. B. B. B.,
ETECTRICAR ENGINEERING AND PHYSICS.
WIRRIAM ROGAN BBNITZ, M. B. B. B.,
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
EDWARD JOSBPH MAURUS, M. S.,
MATHEMATICS. '
ANDRBW ANDBRSON,
TAW.	'	'
ARTHUR RUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M., RR. B.,
LAW.
ROBBRT RBB GRBBN, Ph. G.,
PHARMACY AND PHARAIACOGNOSY.
SHBRMAN STBBRB, Ritt. B., RR. B.,
TAW.
CHARRBS PBTBRSBN, A. M.,
GERMAN.
JOHN BAPTIST RENO, A. M., EL. B.,
pasuambntaky law and debating.
THOMAS JAMES DEHEY, A. B.,
FRENCH. -
FRANK O’HARA, Ph. D.,
poeiticae economy and history.
ROLE AND ADELSPERGER, A. B.,
ARCHITECTURE.
CLARENCE JAMES KENNEDY, B. S.,
ANATOMY. ♦
EDYLARD HERMANN SCHWAB, LL- M.,
*	EAW.
THOMAS ALBERT OLNEY, M. D.,
ANATOMY.
JOHN PATRICK O’SHEA, C. E.,
ASSISTANT IN CIVIE ENGINEERING.
P. J. O’KEEFE, LL. B.,
LECTURER IN EAW.
JOHN BERNARD BERTELING, M. D.,
ATTENDING PHYSICIAN.
WILLIAM BUDD KELLEY,
SHOPWORK.
HENRY FRANCIS MAY,
DIRECTOR OF GYMNASIUM.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
% The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
£ ‘Be it enacted by t te General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Mari vault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac/ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other universities
in the United States.”
12
BULLETIN OF TEIE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-rooms are
in this building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
the others of the University is lighted by electricity and
gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of the first
floor are decorated with mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell,
o
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 55,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
departments of literary criticism, history, political science
and the Greek and Latin classics are well represented.
Special libraries containing reference works on technical
subjects are provided in the Colleges of Engineering and
Science. The College of Law has a complete library of
its own. Ample reading room is provided in the main
library. The best literary magazines and reviews, as
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	13
well as the current numbers of scientific and technical
journals are kept on file. Students have access to the
Library from 8:oo a. m* to 9:00 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theater. The
Theater is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It
will seat 12 do persons. Lectures by men eminent in
public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also presented
in this theater. The dramatic clubs of the University
present five plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three stories
in height. A large central space, the full height
of the building, is occupied by a museum containing
mineral, fossil, and biological specimens. The depart-
ments of Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engi-
neering, Philosophy, Botany and Biology have recita-
tion rooms and laboratories in this building. The
equipment for each of these departments is extensive
and complete. Description of the equipment will be
found later in this catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
14	BULLETIN OF THE
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative vertebrate
skeletons forms a considerable part of the Museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the
other of Canada. There is- also a second collection of
the woods and fruits of the United States, almost
complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a
carefully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large geological collec-
tion ; some of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil
remains of animal and plant life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to advanced
work and space is given to three large laboratories, a
library and lecture rooms. The second floor is occupied
by the Department of Pharmacy, and contains a large
well-equipped laboratory, a modern drug store, a lecture
room and museum, a library for pharmaceutical publi-
cations, and a general stock room. The general inor-
ganic, organic and elementary chemical laboratories
are on the third floor. Bach laboratory is provided
with ample hood accommodations, and each desk is
furnished with water, gas and suction.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
c
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	15
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop for
wood work and also contains a wrell lighted drawing room
where students in designing may consult complete work-
ing drawings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Labora-
tories and is designed for an equatorial telescope and
for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial tele-
scope now in the building is intended for students of
astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings 121
feet in depth. It has a basement and three high stories,
and contains 101 private rooms for advanced students.
These rooms are furnished, and students of Senior, Junior,
or Sophomore standing in any of the Colleges are not
required to pay rent. On the first floor there is a chapel,
a law lecture room and a law library. The building is
lighted with electricity and heated with steam. In the
basement are recreation rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL
. Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width.
•There are 125 private rooms for students, with recre-
ation rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted with
electricity and gas and heated with steam. Lor room-
rent and care of the room a fee is charged.
16	BULLETIN of thf
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin -
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of age
and upwards. There is a common study hall, a com-
mon lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms in which
each student has an alcove curtained to secure personal
privacy. Experience shows that the discipline of these
common rooms works admirable effects on students who
have not yet contracted "solid habits of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the wTest wing of the Administration
Building. It is in all respects similar to Brownson
Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively to
living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The con-
ditions for admission to this hall are: (i) The payment
of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the first of
August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter. The
work in no wise interferes with the student’s work and
all the educational opportunities are open to him. It is
to be regretted that through the lack of endowment
the University can offer only a limited number of such
opportunities each year. It is necessary to apply early
for these appointments.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for the
use of students during illness. The sick are cared for
by Sisters of Holy Cross, and the University physician
visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground: it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing - rooms
and shower-baths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than three thousand dollars
to the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic
games. There is a permanent grand stand near the
baseball diamond and the running track, and a portable
stand near the football rectangle. The field contains
ten acres of ground, and is- a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C.'B., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principal are: the
Natatorium, Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall, the Com-
munity House, the Presbytery, and Saint Bdward’s
Hall
i8
bulletin of thf
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his own
curriculum conformably to his natural liking, the career
in life he may have in view, or the determinate intel-
lectual bent developed during his secondary school years;
but though he is free to elect his own studies he has not,
however, unlimited freedom in this respect. The prin -
ciple of general election is modified- Lest the young
Freshman in his inexperience choose unwisely, he is
aided in making his choice of studies by being permitted
to select from among a number of parallel programs lead -
ing to baccalaureate degrees. Sixteen programs are open
for his choice in the Colleges, each embracing courses
which, in the opinion of the Faculty, contribute best to
cultural, scientific or professional knowledge. These
programs are, in some cases, made elastic by the intro -
duction of elective courses, especially in the Junior and
Senior years. Students who wish to spend a limited time
in study and cannot complete all the courses in a pro-
gram for a degree may register as special students and elect
any courses for which their .preparation has fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for attendance at recitations and the time
necessary for preparation of recitations. One hour of
recitation is regarded as the equivalent of twTo hours of
laboratory work. The minimum number of credit hours
which a student must carry is sixteen, the maximum
number which he may carry is twenty. Students who
wish to take* more work than is indicated by the
maximum requirements must apply by formal petition
to the Faculty for the requisite permission.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
19
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges must
present evidence, either by examination or by a properly
attested certificate, of ability to enter on the courses of
the Freshman year. The specific subjects required for
entrance will be found later in this catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admis-
sion to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, at the beginning of the Fall Term and in
January at the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations
in one or more of the subjects required for admission to
any college program may, at the discretion of the
Faculty, be admitted to his class conditioned, to make
up his deficiency by extra study zvithin one school year.
Only when the conditions are removed will the student
be admitted to full standing in his class.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited to
the State Universities, will be admitted without exami-
nation to the Freshman year of any program to which
their preparatory studies entitle them.
Certificates of work done in public High Schools or
in private Preparatory Schools will not be accepted
instead of examinations, unless the applicant has passed
the final examinations after’full courses in his school,
and the Faculty of the University are satisfied with the
standing of the school.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing who
are required to take examinations must pass, in addition
to the usual entrance examinations, an examination
in the work already done by the classes they desire to
20
BULLETIN OB THE
enter. The additional subjects may be found in the
several programs of studies described later in this
catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present certifi-
cates from other colleges or universities may be received
.at the discretion of the Faculty with or without exami-
nation as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by the
University will be found described later in this catalogue.
Written theses and final examinations are demanded of
all candidates for degrees. One full-scholastic year of
resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through
four scholastic years. In the College of Tetters and
Arts one of three degrees is conferred on an undergradu-
ate— Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of Tetters
(Titt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.)—dependent
on the special program of studies the candidate selects.
The College of Science offers five degrees for choice to
undergraduates—Bachelor of Science (B. S.), Bachelor
of Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.), Bachelor of Science in
Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph.
•G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.). The College of
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
21
Engineering offers three degrees—Civil Engineer (C.
E.), Mechanical Engineer (M. E ), and Mechanical.
Engineer in Electrical Engineering (M. E. in E. E-).
Two degrees are offered by the College of Architec-
ture-Bachelor of Science in Architecture (B. S. A.),
and Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering
(B. S. A. E.). The College of Eaw offers the degree
of Bachelor of Eaws (LE- B.) In the College of Music one
degree is offered, Bachelor of Music (B. M.). In
order to obtain this degree the candidate must have
studied music in the University for one complete year.
He must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of four
instruments mentioned in the courses described later,
and a practical mastery of one of them. He shall pass a
written examination in harmony, counterpoint and com-
position, and he must submit to the examiner two origi-
nal compositions: (a) A fugue for full orchestra, or for
four voices with independent orchestral accompaniment;
(b) a composition in the free form (sonata or rondo)
for pianoforte, or a trio- (pianoforte, violin and
violincello).
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one com -
plete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who make
application to the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study for the privilege of pursuing advanced work. All
work must be approved by this Committee. One year of
residence, at least, is required of candidates who have
received their Bachelor’s degree at another college.
Those who have received their Bachelor’s, degree from
22
BULLETIN OB THE
&
. Notre Dame, may, in some cases to be determined by the
Committee, obtain the Master’s degree for work done in
absentia* One major and one or two minor courses will
constitute the curriculum, forming a consistent, co-ordi -
nated plan of advanced work pursued with some definite
aim. On completion of the required work the candidate
must pass a satisfactory examination in writing under the
professors who give his subjects of instruction. The
candidates for this degree must also write a dissertation
of notable merit on some topic connected with his major
subject, the thesis to contain in the minimum five
thousand words. The subject of the thesis must be
announced to the Committee by December i, and sub -
mitted for examination by May 15. Dive printed or
typewritten copies of the thesis must be presented to the
University to be placed in the library. The fee for
examination of work done in absentia is twenty-five dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni -
versity work before the degree of Doctor shall be con -
ferred,—two of these years must be spent at Notre Dame
and one may be passed in some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactory examina -
tions in French and German on entrance. The work for
the degree shall consist of one major and two minor courses
of instruction approved by the Committee. Research
study shall form the most important part of the candidate’s
work. On completion of his work the candidate must
pass minute examinations on the three subjects of his
curriculum and must defend his dissertation before the
whole Faculty. The thesis must be printed and one
~ No degree is conferred in honorem except the degree of Doctor
of Laws, (LL. D.).
UNIVERSITY OP NOTRE DAME.
23
hundred and fifty copies presented to the University. A
copy of the thesis must be handed to the Committee one
month before the examinations. The degree will not be
conferred for merely faithful work, and not for miscel -
laneous study, but for original research and for high
attainment in one branch of study. The fee for the
degree is fixed at fifty dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates for a
degree by following the prescribed courses of any pro-
gram may register as special students and attend any of
the courses of instruction for which their previous aca -
demic training has fitted them. Such special students
are governed by the same regulations and discipline as
the other undergraduates. They are required to pass
the same examinations in the courses they pursue as the
other students. In exceptional cases men of mature age,
who have been out of school or college for several years,
but whose training in practical affairs has been suffi-
ciently educative, will be accepted as special students by
satisfying the Faculty of their ability to pursue with
profit any course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may receive
on'application certificates stating their proficiency in the
courses they have pursued.
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has at present only four foundations
which yield revenues for the support and tuition of four
students annually. Assignment of these scholarships
is made under restrictions indicated with each gift.
No student will be continued in the enjoyment of a
scholarship whose superiority in college work is not
clearly indicated in his first year of residence. Nor will
24
BULLETIN of th®
a student who has incurred serious censure by breach of
the regulations of the University be considered again as
a candidate for a scholarship.
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of endow -
nient makes it impossible, for the University to give
< place to a greater number of deserving students who are
not able to pay the charges of board and tuition. Under
conditions indicated on page 16 of this catalogue a
limited number of student - waiters can be received at
reduced rates. Certain clerkships in the University
offices and positions in the libraries are also open to
worthy students. Information regarding the assign-
ment of these places will be furnished by the President.
The University is doing all in its power to assist
students in narrow circumstances. The friends of
Notre Dame are asked to assist in this work.
TH® JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Bdward Johnson, of Watertown, Wis-
consin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the income
of which aids in the support of one student annually.
By the terms of the gift assignment is made only to a
student who intends to enter the priesthood.
THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
The Reverend Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Pennsyl-
vania, bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899. The
terms of the bequest specify that the income shall be
used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Pord, of Chicago, gave to the
University certain properties for -the maintenance of
worthy students. The income arising from this gift
now supports fully two students annually. By the wish
■ of the donor nominations for these scholarships are made
from St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.	•
UNIVERSITY OU NOTRE DAME.
25
PRIZES
The following prizes and honors within the gift of the
University are awarded annually under conditions named
below. Any of these prizes may be withheld by the
Faculty if the student incur serious censure for violating;
any of the regulations of the University.
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who has
obtained the best record in the Senior year of the Classi -
cal Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. Henry Quan,
of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition that the
record of the student is notably good in all the courses of
instruction prescribed for the Senior year.
THE MASON MEDAL FOR CARROLL HALL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of Chi-
cago, is awarded each year to the student of Carroll Hall
whose scholastic record is superior to that of his fellows.
Observance of the University regulations counts in the
award. The prize may be withheld if in the opinion of
the Faculty the record of the student has not reached a
high standard.
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Bleanor Meehan, of
Covington, Kentucky, is awarded every year to the
undergraduate who presents the best dissertation in
Bnglish. Bssays offered in competition may be on any
subject approved by the head of the Department of
Bnglish. Theses offered for graduation may be pre-
sented in competition. The Faculty will not award the
prize, if, in the opinion of the judges selected, the best
essay is not notably meritorious.
26
bulletin of the
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
Breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded to
the student who excels in oratory. The award is made
by a committee of three selected by the Faculty and
after a public competition. The winner represents the
University in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest held
the ’first Friday in every February. No student may
receive the Breen Medal more than once, but the winner
of this prize may compete again for the honor of repre-
senting the University in the State Contest.
ELLSWORTH C. HUGHES MEDAL FOR CIVIL ENGINEERING
A gold medal presented every year by Mr. A. S.
Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, in memory of his son who
was a member of the Sophomore Class in 1889, is awarded
to the student of the Department of Civil Engineering
who has obtained the best record in all the courses pre -
scribed in the program. The medal is awarded only
when the student’s record has attained a fixed standard.
In computing the grade the courses in mathematics
count fifty per cent. Only students who have been in
residence for four full years are eligible to compete for
this prize.
THE O’KEEFE MEDAL FOR LAW
This prize, the gift of Mr. P. J. O’Keefe, of Chicago,
special lecturer in the College of Law7, is awarded to the
student in this College who presents the best dissertation
on some important legal subject. The thesis must be
of unusual merit or the award will not be made.
Theses offered in competition may be counted as part
of the students’ wrork.
THE GOLD MEDALS FOR CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
Three gold medals are annually awarded for excellence
in the study of Christian Doctrine. They are the gifts
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
27
respectively of the Chicago division of the Alumni Asso -
ciation, the Reverend M. J. Fitzsimmons, of Chicago, and
the Reverend F. J. Barry, of Chicago.
THE MEDALS EOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Lyons Medal and
the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every year for
excellence in elocution. The award is made after com-
petition in public. In order to be eligible to compete,
students must have followed at least two of the courses
of instruction in public speaking. One of the medals
was founded in memory of Professor Joseph A. Lyons,
of the Class of ’62, who served the University as Pro-
fessor of Flocution and Oratory from 1872 to 1888. The
other is the gift of Mr. Patrick T. Barry, of Chicago.
THE PRIZE EOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize of seventy-five dollars, given every year by
' Mr. J. V. Clark, of Chicago, in memory of his father, is
awarded to three students who in the opinion of a com -
mittee selected by the Faculty excel in debating. The
award is made after a competition in public. The prize
is divided, thirty-five dollars going to the student who
receives the highest marks, twenty-five dollars to the
second, and fifteen dollars to the third. The three
students who are successful in the competition represent
the University in the principal intercollegiate debate of
the year.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing will
be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintain that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of *
. a youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impos-
sible to bring about this development where students
are granted absolute relaxation'from all Faculty govern-
28
BULLETIN OB THE
ment while outside the class-room. A young man
must learn obedience to law by the actual practice of
. * obedience, not merely by appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by exper-
ience to be salutary, are enforced at the University:
i. No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.	•
•	2. Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in
examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immo-
rality, the use of profane and obscene language, and an
unauthorized absence from the University limits are
among the causes for expulsion. In case of suspension or
expulsion for such offences, no fees shall be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall, and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson halls as have
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	29
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.
' 8. Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or
Corby halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
service in the University Church at stated times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is positively pro-
hibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of
study will not be permitted; but students are expected to
take part in outdoor sports.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors of
professionalism.
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice -President of the University and six members of the
Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve the right of
a final decision on all questions concerning athletics. The
Faculty Board will determine the amateur standing of
the members of the athletic teams and apportion the
finances. By this means indiscreet and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have addressed
the University in the past few years may be noted four
Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli,
and Monsignors Falconio and Agius; Archbishops
o
BULLETIN OB THE
Ireland, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and
Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, Muldoon, O’Gor-
man and Shanley. There were also such noted European
churchmen as the Abbe Felix Klein, Monsignor John S.
Canon Vaughan and the foremost of living English his- ,
torians, Dom Gasquet; also men of letters like Dr. D. J.
Stafford, Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry
Van Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats,
James Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie
Reed, Leland Bowers, Hemy James and the Rev. John
Talbot Smith; and such men of affairs as Vice - President
Fairbanks, Senator Taft, ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beve-
ridge, Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, Rep-
resentative J. Adam Bede, the Plonorable William P.
Breen, Representative Bourke Cockran, Willis M. Moore
and the Honorable Edward McDermott. Concerts are
given frequently by organizations from without.
During the year 1906-07 the University offered a
course of public lectures and concerts in Washington
Hall, in addition to the regular and special lectures
required by the courses of instruction. The course was
as follows :
LECTURES
NOVEMBER 2, 9.
22.
24.
DECEMBER 4.
JANUARY 19.
30.
Two lectures by Monsignor John S. Canon
Vaughan, D. D., of Westminster, England,—
(1) “Reminiscences of Italy;” (2) “Medieval
England.”
“The Medical Aspect of Morality,” by Dr.
Winfield Scott Hall, Dean of the North-
western University Medical School.
“Phases of American Humor”, by theHonor-
able J. Adam Bede, Representative in Congress
from Minnesota.
“The Ideal American,” by the Honorable
Edward McDermott, of Louisville, Kentucky.
“Norway,” by Mr. Frank R. Robertson.
“The Kingdom of the Air,” by Mr. Willis M.
Moore, Chief of the United States Weather
Bureau.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
31
FEBRUARY 14.
MARCH 1.
2.
12, 13, 14.
28.
APRIL 4, 6.
MAY	13.
“The Making of a Great Newspaper,” by
Mr. Richard H. Little, foreign correspondent
of the Chicago Tribune.
“The South before the War,” by Colonel
John H. J. Hamm, of Atlanta, Georgia.
“Bismaya — The Oldest City in the World,”
by Professor Edgar J. Banks, who conducted
excavations in Bisxnaya under the auspices
of the University of Chicago.
Five lectures by Dr. James C. Monaghan, of
the Department of the Interior, Washington,
D. C.— (1) “The Present Religious Conditions
in France;” (2) “Character;” (3) “TheTariff
Question;” (4) “The German People;” (5)
“Social Conditions in Europe.”
“The Key to the Twentieth Century,” by
the Reverend Thomas E. Greene, D. D., of
Dubuque, Iowa.
Two lectures by Mr. Seumas MacManus, of
Donegal, Ireland,— (1) “Irish Folk Lore;”
(2) “Modern Irish Writers.”
“The Purpose, Scope, and Mission of the
Law,” by the Honorable Henry Frawley, of
Deadwood, South Dakota.
CONCERTS, READINGS AND DRAMATIC RECITALS
OCTOBER	IS.	The Wunderle Trio.
NOVEMBER	10.	The Ernest Gamble Concert Company.
	14.	The DeKoven Quartette.
DECEMBER	10.	“King for a Day,” a play in four acts, by the University Dramatic Club.	.
	13.	Readings from his works by Mr. Opie Reed.
JANUARY	12.	The Hawthorne Musical Company.
FEBRUARY	7.	Mr. Leon Rennay in a song recital.
MARCH	19.	“Master Skylark,” a play in three acts, by the Philopatrian Society of the University.
	29.	Readings of two of Shakespeare’s plays — “Othello,” “Taming of the Shrew,” by Mr. C. E. J. Griffith, of Chicago.
APRIL	1.	Buiwer-Lytton’s play, “Richelieu,” by the the Senior Class of the University.
*	IS.	Air. John Griffith and his professional com- pany in a dramatic presentation of “Richard
		III.”
	22.	Cartoons, by Mr. Alton Packard.
MAY	11.	Professor Leland T. Powers, of Boston, in a reading of the play, “Lord Chumley.”
32
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary or debating societies in the
University which do such creditable work at their meet -
ings and in preparation for them that their work takes
on the nature of added courses of instruction. In each
society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser. In
1906-07 a series of seven public debates was held
'among the members of four Halls — Corby, Brownson,
St. Joseph and Holy Cross. A11 Inter-Hall League
has been formed and public debates are held annu-
ally. The members of the League also compete every
year for a prize in oratory. The College of Law also has
an active debating club. The training in public speak-
ing has always received special attention at the Uni-
versity. In fifteen public debates with other universities
and colleges Notre Dame has never met defeat—the
•decision of the judges in the greater number of these
debates being unanimous. In oratory the representative
of Notre Dame in the Indiana State Contest for 1906-07
was awarded first place, and in the Inter-State contest the
judges placed him above the representatives from eleven
other States. The University Dramatic Club and the
Philopatrian Society stage at least three plays annually
for presentation in public. The University Band and the
University Orchestra also appear regularly in concerts.
Students of the Department of Electrical Engineering
liave a society in wrhich papers on engineering are read
■and discussed. Men prominent in their profession are
invited to lecture to the society. The Pharmaceutical
Society meets to discuss subjects of interest in the world
of pharmacy. In the other departments where no such
formal organization has been effected similar results are
reached by seminars.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	33
EXPENSES,
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance). • -.$ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and mending of
Linens, per session of nearly Ten Months... 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)................$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition........................ 250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account..................... 10.00
Special Lecture and Concert Course.......................... 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra Expense the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed below).
On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition.....................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Terms, September and January. The charge of $400,00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic'Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scho-
lastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the
student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice;
and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself
from the University at any time or for any cause without proper
permission. However, an exception is made if it seems to be
expedient for him to go to. his home because of severe or pro-
tracted illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any student
whose account with the University has not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
For whole Year of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free; Freshmen.$50.00
Preparatory Students..............$60.00 and upwards.
34
BULLETIN OE THE
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular courses of the programs they have entered, any of
the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic
Year. The charges will be pro rata, for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Les-
Use of each Instrument. .$ 5.co
sons on Piano and use
of Instrument......$60.00
Use of Piano for Ad-
vanced Students......30.00
Telegraphy............ 25.00
Typewriting—Full Course
(20 Lessons) ....... 5.00
Phonography........... 25.00
Practical Mechanics.... 30.00
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,
Flute, Cornet, Clarinet
or Mandolin......... 30.00
Vocal Culture.......... 40.00
Elocution — Special
Course.............. 10.00
Use of Library......... 5.00
“Scholastic”— College
Paper................ 1.50
Artistic Drawing.......25.00
Applied Electricity.... 40.00
Special Lecture and Con-
cert Course.......... 3.00
Gymnastics—Full Course
(20 Lessons)......... 5.00
Laboratory fees listed later in this catalogue.
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a Degree, $10.00; Commercial
Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed during ■
the months o f July and August. Students wishing to spend their
Summer Vacation under the care of the University authorities
can be accommodated at San Josh Park, Lawton, Michigan.
A limited number of student'waiters can be received at reduced
rates. For conditions of entrance see paragraph entitled St.
Joseph’s Hall, page 16.
i
COLLEGE
OF ARTS AND LETTERS
*p
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
DEPARTMENT OF LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY AND ECONOMICS
36
bulletin oe the
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS.
From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
•establishment of the College of Science in 1865, only
■one program of prescribed courses of instruction leading
to a degree was offered to undergraduate students. It
embraced studies in the ancient and modern languages,
in English literature, in history, the natural sciences and
in mathematics. Graduate students might obtain the
degree of Master by advanced study one year after
obtaining the Bachelor’s degree. The group of courses
was known as the Program of Classics, and the degrees of
Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of election
in courses led the University in 1886 and again in 1898
to form other programs which embraced certain studies
not contained in the Program of Classics but which lead
to degrees equivalent to the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
In the matter of election of courses the student is per-
mitted greater freedom in the program leading to the
degree of Bachelor of Letters than in either of the other
groups. The degrees now under charge of the College of
Arts and Letters are the ordinary degrees of Bachelor of
Arts, Bachelor of Letters, Bachelor of Philosophy and
Master of Arts.
The location of the University offers special advan-
tages for study. It is situated on a beautiful tract where
cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the noisy
bustle of city life. This removal from the distractions of
the town gives the students opportunity to pursue their
work with the quiet and concentration needed for earnest
study. Nearly all the Faculty live on the grounds of the
University, dine with the students, and are accessible to
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	37
them at any time. The benefits derived from this con-
stant association with professors can not be over-
estimated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and
laboratories. The main library has fifty-five thousand
bound volumes well selected and several thousand
pamphlets and manuscripts. The leading literary and
scientific reviews are kept on file. Books may be
borrowed under easy regulations. The library contains
ample reading-room space and is well lighted so that
students may use it at night. It is open every day from
8 o’clock a. m. to 9130 p. m. There are also special col-
lections of books in the various departments of the
College, mainly works of reference. Under certain
conditions the city library of South Bend is open to use
by students of the University. ,
The department of experimental psychology occupies
a suite of three rooms on the ground floor of Science Hall.
The use of a dark room and a silent room may also be
had when need requires. The students have access to
the laboratory at all hours of the day and up to ten
o’clock at night. The equipment includes apparatus
and material sufficient for repeating all the exercises in
Sanford’s Manual, and most of the exercises in Tit-
chener’s Experimental Psychology, Volume I. The
laboratory is supplied with hot and cold water, gas and
electricity. At the beginning of the course, the aim is to
give students a wide acquaintance with such familiar
apparatus as the chronoscope, kymograph, plethysmo-
graph, automatograph, perimeter, campimeter, tone
variator, Galton whistle, Galton bar, etc. For the study
of spacial perception, there is a set of stereoscopes,
pseudoscopes, and accompanying slides. Provision is
also made for the investigation of pressure, temperature,
pain, taste, smell, and muscular sensations. Bxperh
38
bulletin of the
merits in the field of auditory perception are facilitated by
three sets of organ pipes, a set of Koenig’s movable
tuning forks and resonators, and various kinds of
metronomes. For the study of physiological psychol-
ogy, a complete set of models of the nervous system is
at hand, together with microscopic slides of the various
parts of the brain and spinal cord.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS	'
English* Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder, for
writing an essay.
Latin. Grammar, complete; C^sar, four books of
the Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Catiline ;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translation at sight of pass-
ages from Cicero and Ctzsar-, translation of English into
Latin based on the text of the authors.
Greek. (For Students in the Department of Classics
■only} Grammar, etymology, and general rules of syntax;
Xenophon, Anabasis, four books; Homer, at least three
books; prose composition based on text.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
History, as set out in the texts used in high schools and
other secondary schools.
t
Civil Government. The Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples as
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	39
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Physical Geography. As given is Tarr's text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equivalent
text.
Botany. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in which
at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation in this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar
to Carhart and Chute's, or Gage's. Eaboratory work is
required. Applicants may present either chemistry or
physics provided either subject has occupied one whole
year with five recitations a week.
French and German. A three year’s study of
either German or French and one year of French or
German is required for entrance on the Program in
Letters and the Program in History and Economics.
Students who began French in the second preparatory
year must have taken up German in the fourth pre-
paratory year and shall continue it for two years in the
college course. A like regulation holds for those who
began German in the second preparatory year. Appli-
cants for the Program of Classics present a year of French *
or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation
of ordinary German or French prose: an ability to
translate, rather than accurate grammatical knowledge
js expected.
BULLETIN of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin	4	146	I	Latin	’ 4	146	II
Greek	4	141	I	Greek	4	141	II
English	3	137	I	English	3	137	I
History	4	144 -	I	History	4	144	I
Elocution	I	136	III	Elocution	1	136	IV
Elocution	r	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin	4	146	in	Latin	4	146	IV
Greek	4	141	in	Greek	4	141	IV
Philosophy	4	162	I	Philosophy	4	162	‘I
English	3	138	11	English	3	138	II
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR.
Latin	4	147	V	Latin	4	T47	VI
Greek	4	142	V	Greek	4	142	VI
Philosophy	4	162	11	Philosophy	4	162	11
English	3	138	in	English	3	138	in
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SENIOR YEAR.
Latin	4	147	VII	Latin	4	148	VIII
Greek	4	143	VII	Greek	4	143	VIII
Philosophy	4	163	III	Philosophy	4	163	in
English	3	139	IV	English	3	139	IV
Elocution	1	136 «	VI	Elocution	1	137	VII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
41
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	137	I	English	3	137	I
Latin or	4	146	I	Latin or	4	146	II
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	169	II	French or	5	169	II
German	5	140	II	German	5	140	II
History	4	144	I	History	4	144	I
Elocution	i	136	III	Elocution	1	136	IV
Elocution	i *	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English	3	138	11	English	3	138	11
Philosophy	4	162	1	Philosophy	4	162	1
Latin or	4	146	III	Latin or	4	146	IV
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	4	169	hi	French or	4	169	hi
German	4	140	hi	German	4	140	in
History	3	144	11 a	History	3	144	11 a
Elocution	1	137	VIII.	Elocution	1	137	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR.
English	3	138	in	English	3	138	Hi
Latin or	4	147	V	Latin or	4	147	VI
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	162	II	Philosophy	4	162	II
History	4	i45	III	History	4	145	III
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SENIOR YEAR.
English	3	139	IV	English	3	139	IV
Latin or	4	r47	VII	Latin or.	4	148	VIII
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	163	in	Philosophy	4	163	III
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Elocution	1	136	VI	Elocution	1	137	VII

42
BUEEETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History	4	144	I	History	4	144	I
English	3	137	I	English	3	137	I
French or	5	169	II	French or	5	169	II
German	5	140	II	German	5	140	II
Polit. Science	4	166	I	Polit. Science	4	166	I
Elocution	1	136	III	Elocution	1	136	IV
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
History Political	3	144	11 a ।	f History Political	3	144	11 a
Science	4	166	11	Science '	4	167	in a
Philosophy	4	162	1	Philosophy	4	162	1
English	3	138	11	English	3	138	11
German or	4	140	in	German or	4	'140	in
French	4	169	in	French	4	169	in
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR.
History	4	144	11 b	History	4	145	iv a
Political Science	4	167	hi b	Political Science	4	167	IV
Philosophy	4	162	11	Philosophy	4	162	11
History	4	145	in	History	4	145	in
Elocution	1	i37	VIII	Elocution	1	i37	VIII
SENIOR YEAR.
History	3	145	iv b	History	3	145	iv b
Political		167	V, VI	Political		167	VI, VII
Science	6	167	VII -	Science	6	168	VIII
Philosophy ’	4	163	in	Philosophy	4	163	III
English	3	138	hi	English	3 n	!38	hi
Elocution	1	136	VI	Elocution	I *«r	137	VII
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
i
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
44
BULI^TIN OB THE
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The College of Science was established as a distinct
department of the University in 1864. The curric-
ulum of the student was largely elective for the three
succeeding years, but in 1867 there was formed the group
of prescribed courses now known as the Program of
General Science. Five programs are now offered to
undergraduate students. The degrees under charge of
the Faculty in this college are the ordinary degrees of
Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Biology,
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Graduate in Pharmacy
and Pharmaceutical Chemist. The Master’s degree is
conferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Biology occupies the second floor
of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture rooms
and laboratories well ventilated and lighted. There are
also private laboratories set apart for graduate students.
The lecture rooms are furnished with charts and models
necessary in teaching the different courses. The
arrangement of windows is such that the rooms can
be easily darkened so that stefeopticon and lantern slides
on the subjects of botany, zoology and physiology may
be used. The laboratories are equipped with compound
and dissecting microscopes. In each room there is a
library of works of reference pertaining to. biological
subjects. The general laboratory of microscopy, his-
tology and embryology is supplied with compound micro-
scopes and the equipments indispensable in these courses,
courses. The zoological collection fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	45
For work in anatom}7, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of the
human body, which can be taken apart for close study.
Besides there are several mounted and unmounted
human skeletons. Students pursuing courses in human
anatomy at the University study under a practicing sur-
geon and have the privilege of attending surgical clinics
in the new St. Joseph Hospital of South Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory-is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the others
is a laboratory of photo-micrography which contains
a perfect photo-micrographic instrument with a com-
plete set of accessory apparatus for experimentation,
photographing microscopic objects, making lantern
slides, etc. A large and fully equipped • dark-room
adjoins this laboratory.	-
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORY
The botanical laboratory occupies the northwest end
of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly well
adapted to microscopical and histological work. The
department is supplied with the usual requisites of a
working laboratory such as compound microscopes and
accompaniments for each student, the utensils and
apparatus necessary for embedding by the paraffin, cel-
loiden, soap methods, and mounting of preparations by
the balsam, Venetian turpentine and glycerine methods.
There are besides, microtomes, camera lucida, microm-
eters and aquaria for plant cultures so that the typical
algae and fungi may be had alive for laboratory use in
all stages of development throughout the year.
Special devices for the regulating and modifying of
artificial light are at hand enabling the student to work
on dark as well as clear days. Advanced students are
4.6
I
BULLETIN OF THE
supplied with Abbe condenser and oil immersion lenses.
The laboratory is well stocked with histological
material, and nearly all the types of common plant
families of the phanerogamia and cryptogamia are
preserved after proper fixing. The material for demon-
stration of the fresh water algae is particularly good and
Of
abundant. The supply of material in Venetian turpen-
tine and glycerine is valuable, as it supplies permanent
mounts in a few minutes work. There are also hundreds
of specimens of rare and common types in paraffin.
A herbarium containing over five thousand species of
flowering plants supplies the needs of the classes in
systematic botany. The collection includes plants
from all parts of the United States and Canada,—the
Pacific coast and the Southern States are especially well
represented. Besides these there is a large collection of
fungi, marine algae, mosses, a large collection of
several hundred species of myxomycetes from the
Eastern and Central States, also nearly a thousand
specimens of lichens from all parts of the United States
and Europe. The latter collection is particularly rich
in the genus Cladonia. The herbarium is well stocked
with the local flora, and special facilities are on hand for
the study of the compositae. In the museum are found
specimens of American and tropical woods and fruits.
The laboratory for more advanced work accommo-
dates about twenty-five students. It is supplied
with eight working tables covered with plate glass or
soapstone, and each place is supplied with lock and key.
The lecture room in botany is on the second floor of the
building and has a seating capacity of seventy-five.
THE CHEMICAD LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated in the
southeastern part of the grounds and is a large three-
story structure devoted entirely to chemistry. On the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
47
third floor are a small stock room and t'he laboratories
for general and industrial chemistry, the former capable
of accommodating one hundred and fifty students, the
other seventy. The desks are all supplied with gas,
water, suction and the necessary reagents. On the side
tables are general stock and general apparatus, and
conveniently placed are small stands for suction and
blast lamps supplied with gas, air blast, acetylene. ■ On
the third floor also is the large fan used for drawing
gases from the hoods, with 'which all the laboratories
are supplied. On the middle floor are the main stock
rooms w’here supplies can be obtained by- the students.
Here also are the laboratories, lecture-room, drug store,
library and museum of the Department of Pharmacy.
On the first floor are the laboratories for qualitative and
quantitatiye analysis with desks to accommodate
sixty-five students, and fitted with gas, suction, water
and blast. Large hood accommodations are available
and can be utilized to advantage because of the perfect
ventilation produced by the large fans on the top floor.
Two small side tables are equipped with air blast, ordi-
nary gas and acetylene. To the east of these laboratories
are those for physical and electrochemistry and special
work such as food analysis, iron and steel analysis, gas
analysis, etc. The equipment in these laboratories is
quite complete. Adjoining these laboratories is a small
dark room for spectroscopic and polariscopic analysis.
A large lecture room to accommodate a hundred and
ten students is in the south end of the first floor. It is
provided with apparatus for stereopticon illustrations,
storage batteries, cylinders of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon
dioxide and a complete set of charts illustrative of the
processes employed in modern chemical industries.
Two laboratories adjoin, one for general organic analysis,
the other for special advanced work. Two wings extend
48
BUIXKTIN OB THB
from the main building,—one contains the vacuum and
pressure tanks, the ’ acetylene and gasoline gas gener-
ators, the other the balance rooms, in which are the
analytical and assay balances sensitive to the one ten-
thousandth of a gramme, and the library of the Depart-
ment. The library contains besides the works of refer-
ence on chemistry, the principal chemical journals on
file—Berichte, Zentralblatt, the Chemical News, the
Journal of the American Chemical Society, the Journal
of the British Chemical Society, the Journal of Chemical
Engineering, the Journal of Chemical Industries, etc.
In the large hallway are cases containing a steadily
increasing collection of minerals, chemicals, and chemico-
technical products of various kinds, designed as illustra-
tions of the substances and processes discussed in the
lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are in
a wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas and
fuel furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead ores,
and also tables for blow-pipe analysis. A large
collection of minerals and ores serves to illustrate
the processes.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The department of physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science Hall
and three laboratories in the basement. The lecture
room will accommodate seventy-five students. Tor the
work in mechanics there is the force table, inclined
planes, Geneva cathetometer, capable of measuring to
one twenty-five thousandth of an inch, a large physical
balance, standard kilogram, a standard metre, a dividing
engine made by the Geneva society, an Atwood’s machine*
a compound pendulum, a break circuit recording chrono-
graph, a powerful hydraulic press with attachments,
rotary air pumps and receivers, a large clock with
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
49
electrical contact pieces, several self-winding clocks,
mercury barometers and two aneroid barometers.
For the work in acoustics there are a Mercadier radio-
phone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electrically-
operated tuning forks by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig
phonautograph, an Edison phonograph of earliest type,
several sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a large
double siren, a set of very small tuning forks producing
the highest audible sounds, a set of resonators mounted
together with capsules for sensitive flames arranged for
the analysis of complex sounds, a set of Koenig’s
movable tuning forks to draw compound curves on
smoked glass, three sets of organ pipes, four sets of
fine tuning forks, a set of apparatus for manometric
observation of sound phenomena, a large tuning fork
producing the lowest audible sound, an electrical metro-
nome, a set of mounted tuning forks carrying small
mirrors arranged to perform Lissajou’s experiment,
producing complex curves.
For the work in light there are a complete set of appa-
ratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the wave
lengths of light by various interference methods, a set
of polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a polariz-
ing saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for gas or
electric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large Nicol’s
prisms mounted, a large compound prism to form widely
dispersed spectrum, two Rowland gratings 14,000 lines
to the inch, a set of photographs of solar spectrum by '
Rowland, several cameras with lenses and attachments,
a well-equipped dark-room for photographic work, and
a photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
50
BULLETIN OB THE
thermometers, air thermometers, a steam engine indi-
cator, several calorimeters, apparatus for determining;
the coefficient of linear expansion using the optical lever
method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
'absolute electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,,
six bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of the
modern machine from the early forms of the recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types, a
complete X-ray outfit, sets of apparatus for wireless-
telegraphy.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Candidates for the Freshman class of the four-year
programs must be prepared to pass an examination in
the branches named below unless satisfactory assurance
of proficiency is given by approved certificate.
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Physiology. Marlin’ s Hitman Body, of an equivalent
treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Botany. Elementary.
Civil Government. The American Constitution;
Federal and State Governments.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	5I-
Geometry. Plane and solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or equivalent treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plain and spherical.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The-
preparation in this subject must include a course of lec-
tures and recitations. A course of at least fifty experi-
ments m elementary chemistry actually performed by
the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this-
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book
similar to Carhart and Chute? s or Gagd s. Laboratory
work is required.
English. Part of the examination is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English in the Preparatory
School of the University; the remainder for writing an
essay.
German. A two-year course in German is required..
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English,
and easy English into German, or
French. A two-year course in French may be pre-
sented instead of German under the same conditions-.
Ability to translate readily, rather than an accurate-
grammatical knowledge, is expected.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Casar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based-
on the text of Casar.
52
bulletin of the
PROGRAM OF GENERAL SCIENCE
The Program in General Science is calculated to afford
•such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modem science as will best enable the student to fit him-
self, either for further study of a technical or professional
kind; or for the activities of business life. The natural
and physical sciences constitute the primary studies of
This program. Grouped about these are such studies in
English, mathematics, and modern languages, as experi-
ence has shown to be necessary for the intelligent pursuit
of science and the attainment of the object of the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
•student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior year.
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in physics, chemistry,
biology and mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of Gen-
eral Science is required to submit, before the final ex-
amination, a written thesis upon some subject connected
with the elective work of the Senior year. The subject
•chosen must have the approval of the professor in the
^course selected. The thesis shall contain no less than
five thousand words, and must be satisfactory in matter
;and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the
final examination and present a satisfactory thesis will
•receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES
^Chemistry I., VIL, each.......................$	5.00
^Chemistry II., III., IV., V., VI., VIII., IX., XL, XIII., each 10.00
Physics III., Zoology I., Botany II., Geology I., each. 5.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
5$
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course-
Zoology	5	172	I	Zoology	6	172	I
Chemistry	4	115	III	Chemistry	4	115	III
Algebra	5	148	I	An. Geometry	5	149	II
Drawing	2	131	I	Drawing	1	131	II
Physiology	4	165	I	Physiology	4	165	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany	5	112	1,11	Botany	5	112	1, 11
Chemistry	4	115	IV	Physics	5	164	II, HE
Physics -	5	164	11, in	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Calculus	5	149	in	Elective	5		
JUNIOR YEAR.
Geology	2	139	1	Geology	4	140	hi
Elective	5			Astronomy	3	in	I
English	3	137	1	English	3	137	I
French or	5	168	1	French or	5	168	1
German	5	140	1	German	5	140	1
Philosophy	4	162	1	Philosophy	4	162	1
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy	4	162	11	Philosophy	4	162	11
Three Elect’v’s in Science French or	9 5	169	11	Three Elect’vs in Science French or	9, 11 5	169 140	11
German	5	140	11	German	5		11
554
BULLETIN OB THE
THE PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY*
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them for
professional work either in the laboratory or the class-
„room. Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule of
work admits in the Junior and Senior year of some elec-
tive study.
Bvery candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject con-
nected with Chemistry and must submit, at least four
weeks before the final examination, a written thesis on
work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must con-
tain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an “hour” means two sixty minute
^periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES. '
Chemistry I., VIL, each....................$	5.00
Chemistry IL, III., IV., V., VI., VIII., IX.,
XI., XIII., each...................... 10.00
Physics III................................ 5.00
Geology 1.................................. 5.00
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	55
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN CHEMISTRY
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS Birst Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Chemistry	4	115	III	Chemistry	4	115	III
Algebra	5	148	I	Anal. Geom.	5	149	II
French	5	168	I	French	5	168	I
Physics	5	164	II, III	Physics	5	164	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Chemistry	4	ii5	IV	Chemistry	4	116	V
Calculus	5	149	hi	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Geology	2	139	1	Geology	4	140	III
Chemistry	5	116	VI	Chemistry	6	117	IX
Gas Analysis	.4	117	VIII				
JUNIOR YEAR.
Chemistry	7	117	IX	Chemistry	4	118	XI
Chemistry Elective ' Elective *	5 5			Chemistry Chemistry Elective	3 5	118	XIII
English	3	i37	1	Assaying English	2 3	140 137	II I
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy History of Chemistry Elective .’Scientific Readings in German and French	4 3 5 2 2	162 118	11 XII	Philosophy Chemistry Elective Scientific * Readings in German and French Thesis	4 5 2 2	162	11
w
bulletin of the
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY
The Program in Biology has been designed for stu-
dents who wish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required to prepare an
essay during the first term of the Junior Year on some
subject pertaining to biology. Every candidate for a.
degree must submit before the final examinations a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings.
Students not preparing themselves for the medical pro-
fession may substitute for the advanced courses in
anatomy and physiology equivalents from either
mathematics, physics, or English literature.
LABORATORY FEES
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I., II., each.$ 5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany II., IV., each.. 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I., II.,............. 1.00
Bacteriological' Laboratory—Bacteriology.... 10.00
Physics III................................. 5 0O
Chemistry III., IV., V., VI., each....    10.00*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
57
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN BIOLOGY
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hr?, a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology	5	172	I	Zoology	6	172	I
Chemistry	4	115	III	Chemistry	4	115	III
Microscopy	2	156	I	English	3	137	I
English	3	137	I	French	5	168	■ I
French	5	168	I	Drawing	1	133	IX
Drawing	i	133	IX				
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Physiology	4	165	1	Physiology	4	165	1
Botany	5	112	I, 11	Botany	5	112	I, II
Chemistry	4	115	IV	Chemistry	4	116	V
Physics	5	164	11, in	Physics	5	164	11,111
Drawing	1	133	X	Drawing	1	133	X
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anatomy	3	106	in	Anatomy	3	106	m
Botany	6	ii3	III, IV	Botany	4	113	III, IV
Geology	2	139	1	.Geology	4	140	in
Philosophy	4	162	1	Philosophy	4	162	1
Bacteriology	3	in	1	Chemistry	5	116	VI
SENIOR YEAR.
Anatomy	2	106	11	Anatomy	2	106	II
Anatomy	3	106	hi	Anatomy	3	106	Hi
Physiology	6	166	11	Physiology	6	166	II
Zoology Thesis	6	172	11	Zoology Thesis	x'	6	172	11
58
BULFFTIN OF THF
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are two programs in Pharmacy: one of two years,
leading to the degree Graduate in Pharmacy, (Ph. G.) ;
and another of three years leading to the degree, Phar-
maceutical Chemist, (Ph. C.')
ADMISSION
Applicants for admission to the short program must be
18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
subjects required for the first year of high school work.
A certificate of admission to a high school will be
accepted instead of an examination.
The requirements for the long program are the same,
except that an examination in Isatin through Caesar and
Algebra as far as logarithms must be passed. Satisfac-
tory evidence of having spent two years in a high school
of the best grade will be accepted instead of an examina-
tion.
METHODS
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated processes.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success, in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of
preparations are required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal
Medication.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
59
EQUIPMENT
Bach, desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which tlie student obtains practically the same expe-
rience that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full -charge. He is required
to furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute a
very important part of the equipment. ' Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to read
them and to compound those requiring special manipula-
tion. The reading room is supplied with all the leading
pharmaceutical journals and books of reference. The
Pharmacognosy room contains specimens of all the
official and a great many unofficial drugs for study and
identification.
THESIS
During the third year the student is required to spend
atTeast two hours a week in original research on a subject
within the domain of Pharmacy. Tbe results of this work
are carefully recorded and must be typewritten and pre-
’ sented to the Faculty as a requirement for graduation.
%
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II., and IV., each...$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI. and VII. each 20.00
Chemistry I., and VII, each.............. 5.00
Chemistry IV.,	V.	and	VI. each,......... 10.00
Physics......................?........... 5.00
Microscopy............................... 1.00
Mineralogy............................... 5.00
6o
bulletin op the
PROGRAMS IN DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
DEGREE: Ph. G.
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy	3	160	I	Pharmacy	6	160	I, II
Chemistry	5	114	I	Chemistry	5	114	I
Microscopy	2	156	I	Chemistry	2	161	X
Botany	5	112	I, II	Botany	5	112	I, II
Arithmetic	3	161	IX	Mat’ra Medica	2	161	VIII
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	160	III, IV	Pharmacy	8	160	V, VI
Chemistry	4	ii5	IV	Chemistry	4	116	V
Mat’ra Medica	3	161	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	3	161	VIII
Bacteriology	3	in	I	Pharmacog’y	3	161	X
Physics	5	164	1	Physics	5	164	I
				Physiology	4	165	I
DEGREE: Ph. C.
FIRST YEAR
Pharmacy	3	160	1	Pharmacy	6	160	1, 11
Chemistry	5	114	1	Chemistry	5	114	1
Microscopy	2	156	1	Chemistry	2	161	X
Botany	5	112	1, 11	Botany	5	112	1, 11
Arithmetic	3	161	IX	Mat’ra Medica	2	161	VIII
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	160	III, IV	Pharmacy	8	160	V, VI
Chemistry	4	115	IV	Chemistry	4	116	V
Mat’ra Medica	3	161	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	3	161	VIII
Bacteriology	3	in	I	Pharmacog’y	3	161	X
Physics	5	164	I	Physics	5	164	I
				Physiology	4	165	I
THIRD YEAR
Pharmacy	5	161	VI	Pharmacy	5	161	vn
Chemistry	5	116	VI	Chemistry	5	119	XIV
Mineralogy	2	*39	I	Urinary Anal.	3	116	vn (a}
Thesis	2			Toxicology	3	116	VII (b)
Elective	5			Thesis	2		
				Elective	|	5		
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
62
bulletin of the
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the en-
gineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the three departments
of engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that are
applied in engineering work. Mathematics is foremost
among these requirements. The natural sciences receive
their share of attention and due importance is given to
languages in arranging the programs of studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to cor-
respond as closely as possible to the real work of the
engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are ac-
quired by applying the results of mathematical calcula-
tions to particular practical cases in laboratory work.
Three regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, and one to the de-
gree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering.
Special Short Courses in Electrical arid Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accomodate those who wish
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	63
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest possi-
ble time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department will be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works in
the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufacturing
plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
in the schedules oi studies one hour of credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one to-
two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in labora-
tory work, shop work or drawing are required for -each
hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, boards
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 33, the regular
students in the three Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appa-
ratus used, as follows:
LABORATORY FEES.
Physical Laboratory I., and III., each......^5.00^
Physical Laboratory IV...................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory I., II................ 15.00
Electrical Laboratory IV.................... 15.00
Shop work, all four-year programs, per term. 15.00
Chemistry 1................................ 5.00
Chemistry II., IV., V., each............... io.oQ'
64
bulletin ok thk
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauwenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States.
Federal Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of ancient, medieval and
modern history.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr’s text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments and recitations from a text-book like Carhart
A.
and Chutes' or Gage's. Laboratory work is also required.
Chemistry. The elements of Inorganic Chemistry.
Laboratory work required.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must pre-
sent a three years’ course in German.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfacto -
rily he may begin at once the regular Freshman work ;
but if he is deficient in any one or more subjects he may
enter conditionally and make up his deficiency as soon as
possible in the Preparatory School of the University.
Credits from high schools or preparatory schools in
good standing will be accepted in place of examinations.
university OF NOIR.; fame.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, ’ to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession either
in the office or in some of the responsible positions super-
intending the construction and operation of public works.
To secure these results the student is given, not only a
. sound theoretical training in the courses of study, but
he is also required to study the practical applications
of the principles upon which the theory is based. The
first two years are devoted to the study of mathematics
and the theoretical branches. The last two years are
given to the study of applied courses—practical work in
the laboratory and field, as much as possible, being
required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects. In-
struction based upon standard text-books on engineering
is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratory, dra wing-room and
field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening
his interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
66
bulletin of the
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists of
surveyors’ transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineer’s wye levels and a plane table with all
the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, levelling-
rods., etc, and one Olson’s cement testing machine.
After the student is taught the use and adjustment of
the instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are
commenced and continued progressively until the more
difficult principles and methods are understood. In a
similar manner is instruction given in the courses of
sanitary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of
materials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing
the student with practical engineering subjects, and the
most improved method of execution and designing. A
large draughting room offers‘’facilities for the prop-
er study of all the courses in mechanical drawing and
design. The room is splendidly lighted from above,
well ventilated and contains the latest form of drawing
tables. There are suitable arrangements for blueprint-
ing, both by natural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West.
Some of the largest plants in the world are situated
here. One of the greatest water power developments
in the United States is located a few miles from the
University. Special advantages are thus afforded to
to students for the inspection of the most modern engi-
neering works now completed or in process of construction.
The City Engineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of the
Department connected with the course of study, is
* required of each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original research.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
67
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER'
FRESHMAN YEAR.							
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR | DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	148	I	Anal. Geom.	5	149	II
English	3	137	I	French	5	168	I
French	5	168	I	Chemistry	3	114	II
Chemistry	3	114	II	Drawing	2	131	II
Drawing	3	131	I, II	Surveying	5	121	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR.							
Calculus	5	149	III	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Des. Geometry	3	I 20	I	Des. Geometry	3	120	I
R.R.Surveying	5	122	VI, VII	Adv. Survey’g	5	121	IV, V
Physics	5	164	II, III	Physics	5	I64	II, III
Drawing	1	131	V	Drawing	r	131	V
		JUNIOR YEAR.					
Analytic				An. Mechanics	2	122	VIII
Mechanics	5	122	VIII	Mechanics of			
Geodesy	4	123	IX	Materials	3	123	X
English	3	13-8	II	Astronomy	3	III	I
Geology	2	i39	I	English	3	138	II
Stereotomy	3	132	VI	Geology	4	I40	III
				Drawing	3	132	vii
SENIOR YEAR.
Engineering	5	125	XII	Engineering	5	125	XII
Hydr omech an.	3	127	XVI	Hydromechan	3	127	XVI
Bridges, Roofs	5	126	XIV	Graph. Stat,	5	126	XV
Sanitary Eng.	2	125	XIII	Sanitary Eng.	2	125	XIII
Drawing '	3	132	VII	Roads, Pav’ mt Thesis	4	124	XI
a
68
BUIyl/KTlN OK THK
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING.
The program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and for
the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only
those capable of adapting themselves to these require-
ments should take it up. The program of the department
is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used
in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the science
of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions
of connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions, to the work done or energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct devel-
opment’ of kinematics, and the course continues through-
out the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop,
in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When the students have become
sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the work
of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	69
the student by easy steps until he has mastered all the
details of the work. .
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culmination effort of the program,
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show con-
siderable originality.	‘
k^very possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some one of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the par-
ticular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas engine
design and operation. A systematic curriculum of study
will be outlined in each individual case leading to a
complete and proficient knowledge of the work under-
taken.
Access may be had to all the machinery and apparatus,
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort is
made by the authorities to make the work as compre-
hensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop is
supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped with
the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for
turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner,
an edge moulder and shaper, a universal trimmer, circu-
lar saw with dads and drilling attachments and band saw,
the whole forming an adequate equipment for a thorough
mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
70	bulletin of the
power motors being 'used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running the entire length of the building.
The latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed having a
capacity for work twenty - eight inches in diameter. Two
drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a
Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit,
thus making the machine shop a model of its kind.
There have been completed lately in the machine shop
seven new screw cutting lathes of fourteen inch swing,
a high speed bench hand lathe, one twenty - eight inch
Sibley and Ware drill press, one horizontal 8x12 slide
valve steam engine and a wood milling machine. The
equipment is added to regularly, and recently a Seneca
Falls lathe of fourteen inch swing and eight foot bed, a
Crown high speed lathe, a Toledo punch press and a
complete new set of chucks, drills, taps, mandrels and
lathe dogs have been installed to meet the additional re-
quirements of the courses. It is the policy of this depart-
ment to refrain as much as possible from exercise work,
and each student is usually taking part in the construction
of some new machine or engaged on general repair work
for the University, a plan which is regarded superior to a
fixed routine of exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for., the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
71
^engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains^
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregat -
ing 1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers is
installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows: a
Worthington hot water meter for measuring the amount
of feed water, a feed water thermometer for getting
temperature of same, a high range thermometer for
temperature of generated steam, a throttling calorimeter
for ascertaining the quality of steam and an automatic
recording pressure gauge giving a continuous record of
the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding the
•temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means of a
pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining samples
of flue gas for analysis with Fisher’s analysis apparatus.
These, with a Carpenter coal calorimeter for determin-
ing the heating value of fuel, comprise a full and com-
plete equipment for giving the student an intimate
knowledge of the practical part of boiler management
and testing. A Webster feed water heater and purifier,
two compound duplex pumps, two vacuum pumps work-
ing on the heating system, two large Worthington fire
pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with a capacity of 1,500 gallons
per minute, with numerous separators, steam traps,
^automatic reducing valves, etc., complete the apparatus
in the main steam plant. A McBwen high speed auto-
matic engine, an Armington and Sims engine of similar
type and several low speed horizontal engines with polar
mnd roller planimeters, indicators, reducing wheels,,
-slide rules and other necessary instruments, are used in
..studying the operation of the steam engine, distribution
.and economy of steam, regulation, valve setting and
'heat wastes.
72
BUI.LMTIN' OF THE
There have been donated in the past year to the
mechanical laboratory about four hundred brass and iron
fittings, used in steam and gas engineering, including
feed water injectors, ejectors, sight feed lubricators, oil
cups, safety valves, relief valves, different varieties of
globe valves, check valves, oil injectors for boilers,
generator valves, gate valves, tees, elbows, crosses,
unions, bushings and reducers. Many of these have
been sectioned to show the dimensions, and facilitate a
study of the internal structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four cycle gas engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse power two cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse power horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with circulating pump and cooling tower,
one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil, one
Apple ignition dynamo with storage battery, two Hen-
dricks automatic igniters together with carburettors,
spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary
equipment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston
carburettor and muffler, a National storage battery, Pitts -
field induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard mag-
netos with brass armored spark coils, one four engine
cylinder distributor and a number of improved standard
and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated by alcohol has been placed in* the machine
shop, and the work of designing and building the engine
will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering
topics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete
line of trade catalogues.	*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
73
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR. DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	148	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	149	II
French	5	168	I	French	5	168	I
Drawing	3	131	I	Drawing	3	131	II
Chemistry	3	114	II	Chemistry	3	114	II
Shopwork a	3	.171	xiva	Shop work	3	171	XIV&
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	149	in	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Drawing	3	132	VIII	Drawing	3	132	VIII
Chemistry	4	115	IV-	Chemistry	4	116	V
Physics	5	164	II, III	Physics	5	164	II, III
Shopwork	3	171	XIVC	Shopwork	3	171	xivd
JUNIOR YEAR.
An. Mechanics	5	122	VIII	An. Mechanics	2	122	VIII
Kinematics	5	153	V	Meeh’s of Mat’s	3	123	X
English	3	137	I	Mach’n Design	3	153	VI
Physics	3	165	IV	Physics	3	i65	IV
Shopwork	3	171	xive	Valve Gears	2	153	VII
				English	3	137	I
				Shopwork	3	171	xiv/
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of Engineering	2	151	II	Steam Engine Design -	• 5	152	in
Thermod’nam	5	151	1	Steam Boilers	3	152	IV
Steam Engine				Hydraulics	5	154	IX
Design	5	152	in	Thesis			
Meehan’1 Lab.	3	154	VIII				
Shop work	3	171	xiv/ I				
74
bulletin of the
TWO-YEAR. PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING.
Theory, Design, and Operation of Gas, Oil,
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, and embraces it in theory, design,
construction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a general
descriptive study of the different types of engines with
discussions on the general management, operation, care
and special uses to which this type of motor may be
applied. During the second year the general theory of
the gas engine is studied and the design of an engine for
a specific purpose is undertaken by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodynamic
efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Experiments
in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation of
vaporizers and curburetters, construction of spark coils -
with management and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shop work are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room by
the complete building and testing of a gas engine of a
design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each student
is required to prepare the patterns and core-boxes,
machine the castings and forgings, assemble the complete
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
engine and submit a comprehensive report of a test on the
machine constructed. If the report proves satisfactory
a certificate of proficiency is given to the student and the
gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student must
certify by examination or certificate evidence of a
knowledge of Algebra as far as logarithms and his
further ability to pursue the studies of the first year.
Candidates shall also write a short essay, which must be
satisfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and
paragraph construction.
The equipment and facilities for the courses will be
found described on pages 69-72.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course i			Page	Course
Geometry	5	190	E	Trigonometry	5	191	H
Drawing	2	131	I	Drawing	3	13*	II
Shopwork	3	171	xiva.	Shopwork	3	171	XIV&
Chemistry	5	114	I	Chemistry	5	114	I
Physics	5	164	1	Physics	5	164	I
Gas Engines	5	154	XI	Vapor Engines	5	154	XI
SECOND YEAR.
Motor Design	15	155	XII	Motor Design	IO	155	XII
Laboratory	3	155	XIV	Laboratory	3	155	XIV
Gas Engine	3	155	XIII	Gas Engine Engines and	3	155	XIII
				Boilers	3	154	X
%
BUBLFTIX OF THE)
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING.
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for
men skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
in the program of Electrical Engineering is intended to
give a general education as well as a special training
in the technical branches involved in the various prac-
tical applications of electricity in industrial
operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires skill in
handling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records of
die work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
center in the growth of which electricity is taking a very
prominent part. Electric power generated by steam is
now being distributed and utilized in several large plants,,
some using the three phase alternating system, while
others are using the direct current. One of the largest
water power developments in the Middle West is situated
within a few miles of the University. From this es-
tablishment we receive three phase alternating currents,
which furnish light for our buildings and grounds, and
power for driving motors in our shops and print-
ing offices, etc., all of which are operated by
electricity.


UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
77
There are numerous other transmission, lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power within
a short distance. Our students visit all of these plants,
accompanied by an instructor who points out the appli-
cations of the text-book theory in the design of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working
conditions.
Bach candidate for graduation must present at the end
of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying the
results of an extended original research on an engineering
subject, chosen at the beginning of the year, with the
approval of the head of the department. The descriptive
part must be typewritten on legal cap paper, and bound
in book form together with the drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows; A three phase A. C. induction motor
arranged to operate on single phase circuits with a con-
denser compensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K.
W. composite wound Wood alternator of the latest
type with exicatter and a full set of switchboard instru-
ments, several transformers of different capacity, a high
tension transformer for testing insulation, an Bdison
bipolar 1’5 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-
Houston arc light machine with regulator and fifteen
lamps, a Wood arc machine capacity 25 lights, an
Bdison bipolar 3 K. W. 125 V. dynamo with special
winding, a Van Depoele compound wound dynamo, a
special A.C. and D.C. 5 H.P. dynamo or rotary converter,
a series wound dynamo with wrought iron field, number of
small motors, a forty horse-power high speed automatic
engine, a set of inclined coil alternating current portable
instruments voltmeter, ammeter and wattmeter, tele-
graphing relays, sounders, switchboards, etc., telephone
78
BULLETIN OE THE
apparatus including subscribers sets of various modern
types, a fifty drop manual switchboard complete and a
lot of separate drops, jacks,’ switches, lightning arresters,
etc., automatic telephone switchboard containing first
and second selector and connector switches interrupter
heat coils, etc., and three subscribers sets—with this
apparatus all the operations involved in the operation
of a 10,000 system may be performed, a complete central
energy switchboard, several lines and subscribers sets
and a selective signaling four party line outfit, a collec-
tion of historical sets including Reis’ transmitter and
receiver, a standard portable bridge, a common portable
bridge, a testing battery, a power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and hand tools for metals, a
set of tools for metal working, a calibrating lamp rack,
a D’Arsonval' and common galvanometers, Ballistic
galvanometer, standard condenser etc. for capacity
work, resistance boxes, standard megohms, etc., high
resistance Thompson galvanometer, standard cells,
voltmeter arranged for the comparison on incandescent
lamps, a plug switchboard controlling all circuits, a
small engine belted to shafting to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and polishing work to be plated
solution tank, etc.,—in all, a complete outfit for electro-
type work, a hot wire ammeter, twelve ammeters and
voltmeters. mostly of the Weston type for direct current
measurements, a set of wood working tools, a Kohl-
rausch bridge for measuring battery resistance, etc., a
lot of arc lamps series and constant potential open and
enclosed arcs of various types, a dynamometer type
wattmeter, recording wattmeters of various types, a
collection of motor starting rheostats, several sets of
parts of incandescent lamps showing the various
stages in their manufacture, a large collection of porcelain
insulators used in electrical work including a lot of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	79
insulators for high tension transmission lines, a lot of
armature core disks, transformer core stampings, formed
coils, brush holders, pole pieces, samples of insulation,
commutator segments, etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading manufacturers of electrical
machinery, a case of marked samples of wire insulators,
lamps, and other construction materials, a library of
practical technical books of reference and files of leading
periodicals and trade publications, a Cooper Hewitt
mercury vapor lamp, a high frequency Tesla coil and
condenser, a working model of the induction motor
showing the ‘action of the rotating field, a transmission
dynamometer capacity 1-4 to 10 horse power for deter-
mining the efficiency of small dynamos, a full size
armature winding models mounted to rotate in bipolar
and multipolar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with
universal switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An
absolute electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus .
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,
six bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 lb electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of the
modern machine from the early forms of the recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types a com-
plete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy. For further apparatus consult pages 48
and 49 of this catalogue.
For the work -in chemistry, drawing and shopwork
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages 46; 66, 69 and 70.	✓
8o
bulletin of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER IN ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	148	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	149	* II
French	5	168	I	French	5	l68	1
Drawing	3	131	I	Drawing	3	131	II
Chemistry	3	114	II	Chemistry	3	114	II
Shopwork	3	171	Xivn	Shopwork	3	171	XIV&
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	149	ill	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Des. Geom .	4	131	in	Des. Geom.	4	131	in
Physics	5	164	11,ill	Physics	5	164	11, in xivd a
Shopwork	3	171	XIVG	Shopwork	3	171	
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic				An. Mechanics	2	122	VIII
^Mechanics	5	122	VIII	Meeh, of Mat.	3	123	X
Kinematics	5	153	V	Machine			
English	3	13?	I	Design	5	153	VI
Physics	3	i65	IV	English	3	137	I
Shopwork	3	171	XIVG	Physics	3	i65	IV
				Shopwork	3	171	xiv/
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo Machinery Thermodyn’m	5 5	134 151	in 1	Dynamo Machinery [Electrical Eab.	5 5	134 135	Hi IV
Electrical Eab.	5	i35	IV	; Designing	5	135	V
Designing Thesis	3	135	V	'Hydraulics Thesis	5 ’	154	IX
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
8l
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short program, which may be
completed in two years. The studies are arranged to
give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental theories
of electricity and magnetism, as well as a certain amount
of skill in handling electrical machinery and appliances.
Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and elementary physics
are included, for they are necessary in order to carry on
successfully the practical work of designing, manufac-
turing and. testing or operating electrical apparatus.
Training in this practical work is given in the drafting
room, the machine shops, and in the electrical and
physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power are
learned by testing, repairing and making additions to the
University plant, and by visiting the numerous electric
establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by an
instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings'
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic' and algebra, as far as quadratics.
BUIXETIN OF THE
They shall also write a short essay which must be satis-
factory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and paragraph
structure.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, according to the following
schedule, after they have finished all the work required
for entrance, shall be as given on page 63.
All others are special students and for them the fee is
as given for applied electricity on page 34.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	190	c	Geometry	5	190	D
Drawing	3	131	I	Drawing	3	131	II
Shopwork	3	171	xiva	Shopwork	3	171	XIV&
Physics	5	164	1	Physics	5	164	I
Applied				Applied			
Electricity	5	133	1	Electricity	5	133	I
SECOND YEAR.
Trigonometry	5	191	H	Engines and			
Designing	3	135	V	Boilers	3	154	X
Shopwork	3	171	XIVC	Designing	3	i35	V
Dynamo				Shopwork	3	171	xivd
Machinery	5	134	III	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	134	in
Electricity	5	134	II	Applied -			
				Electricity	5	134	11
COLLEGE OF
ARCHITECTURE
84
BULLK'TIN of ths
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that a
deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master - Architect is the heaven - gif ted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of
form, color, texture, and ornament, can build them
structurally and economically perfect. It is seldom
that any mind combines all of these attributes. It is
more seldom that to-day’s practice requires them in
any one man. To-day, one man “designs”; another
“frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of Architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture from
the College of Engineering and to create the new College
■of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offer three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The Beaux - .
Arts Program requires four years for completion and is
offered to students wishing to specialize in design: the
degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is given at
completion. The Engineering Program is of the same
length and is offered to men wishing to specialize in con-
struction: the degree is Bachelor of Science in Archi-
tectural Engineering. Graduate years are offered in
both programs, and upon completion, Masters’ degrees
.-are conferred. A Short Program covering two years is
■ offered to students finding it impossible or inexpedient to
^devote to school work the time required for completing
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
85
the programs leading to degrees. Upon completion
of the Short Program a Certificate of Proficiency is
given.	-	'
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the draughting - room continuously during the morn-
ing hours from 8 to 12, and for periods of class-room
work in the afternoon. In the Senior Years and in
the Short Program the class - room requirements are
less and the time to be spent in the draughting-room .
correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete -programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
*
preparatory to the programs either in the Preparatory
School of the University or in another accredited school;
or, entrance may be by examination at the University on
the first two days of the Fall Term or in Chicago at the
offices of the University on days announced in the press
of that city.
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the routine
of the courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in Archi-
tecture, or in Architectural Engineering, from Notre
Dame or another School of Architecture of equal stand-
ing. The University wTill confer the Master’s degree on
her own graduate students not in residence at the end of
one year if that time is spent in an atelier of the first
order or in travel abroad following an approved pro-
gram of study and investigation; or at the end of not
less than two years if that time is spent in practice and
the University’s requirements are complied with.
86
BULLETIN OB THE
EQUIPMENT
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from a
small begining, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of signed drawings —
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from
architects of national reputation; a large elaborate
model complete in all its details of the new County
building in Chicago; photographs, engravings, plaster
models, reference books and manufacturers’ cata-
logues and samples. The collection, however, needs
to be increased faster than the resources of the Uni-
versity will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre
Dame can not give money, or its equivalent, for a better
purpose. The endowment of a Traveling Fellowship,
preferably for the study of European Ecclesiastical
Architecture, will be a benefaction of the utmost value.
One thousand dollars will provide for one man for one
year.	'
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
Candidates for the Freshman Year in either four - year
program, or for the First Year of the Short Program
must be prepared to pass an examination in the branches
named below, unless they have done their preparatory
work at Notre Dame or in an accredited High
School.
English* Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
Algebra. Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to loga-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
rithms, as given, in Wentworth s College Algebra^ or
of an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
Geometry* Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
history, as set out in the texts used in the high schools
and academies of the country.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
the ordinary text-books.
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equivalent.
Botany. Elementary.
Zoology. Elementary,
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in high schools of good standing.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text book similar to
Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Eaboratory work is
also required.
Civics. Elementary.
German. A three year’s course in German is
required. Ability to translate at sight German into
English, and easy English sentences into German.
French. An equivalent course in French or any
other language may be offered for German.
Drawing* A knowledge of the use of drawing
instruments, of elementary projection drawing and
freehand.
The Program of Studies Preparatory to the Programs in Archi-
tecture is outlined and described in this Bulletin immediately
following the description of the College work.
88
BUIXKTIN of thf
THE BEAUX- ARTS PROGRAM
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to design it that the student- pursuing it will
have upon completion a liberal general education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural
Design and Composition. It may be undertaken by
students whose artistic intuition and temperament fit
them especially for the aesthetic side of a noble pro-
fession.
The course is built up around the work in the
draughting-room and atelier, where half of the student’s
time is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the
Freshman year'with the intelligent study of the orders
and simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by
means of minor and major problems involving the plan-
ning of all classes of buildings from the simplest to the
most monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by
exercises in the various methods and media of rendering
and by a thorough course in freehand and modelling.
All instruction in planning and composing is based on
correct principles of design.
The materials and methods of all trades and profes-
sions engaged in building operations are systematically
studied in the Construction classes throughout the four
years of the program. The writing of specifications for
each branch of labor is studied synchronously. Practical
work in the various trades is given so that the student
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	8p
may know good work and thus be able to superintend
construction intelligently. These practical lessons are
supplemented by weekly inspection trips to the
important building operations and industries in the
neighborhood of the University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and
numerous practical problems solved.
Working drawings and details of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that graver
problems requiring a deep knowledge of the higher
mathematics may well be left to the architectural
engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures are
given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations,
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of
high professional standing will give a number of the
lectures in this course.
The history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering three years. The method
'is a combination of lectures, recitation and research.
Courses in literature, economics and philosophy cover-
ing four years complete the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism and
research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.
90
BUEEETIN OB THE
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering,
blaster of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be
thorough, the engineer must specialize. One of his
specializations is in Architecture. His services are
needed to frame important buildings, to design their
foundations and to protect adjoining property while
they are in erection. The modern idea of education is
' to progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs.
The College offers the Program in Architectural Engi-
neering because there is need of the services of the men
who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
should have a bent for mathematics and for painstaking
exact draughting.
The program of studies differs from that of the Beaux-
Arts Program chiefly in that courses in pure and applied
mathematics are substituted for the courses in English,
economics and . philosophy; a year in history of con-
struction for the one in history of art; and in that a
relatively greater amount of time, increasing each year,
is spent in construction design.
The Graduate Year is spent entirely in the solving of
problems of the first order in architectural engineering.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
91
THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiencv.
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class - room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year than hi
either of the complete programs.
SUMMER WORK
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,
projects, measured drawings or.work in an architect’s
office will be required of all students of architecture.
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the draughting-
room.
It is the intention to have the student work steadily
for four hours in the draughting - room during the
morning session and to attend recitation periods in the
afternoon session.
92
BULLETIN OF THE
BEAUX-ARTS PROGRAM
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	, SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	137	I	English	3	137	I
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	VIII	Hist, of Arch.	2	109	IX
Des. Geom.	3	131	III	Shades and ] Shadows	3	131	III
Construction	2	IO6	I	Perspective J Construction	2	IO6	I
Freehand	2	I31	I	Freehand	2	131	I
El. of Arch.	8	109	XV	El. of Arch.	8	109	XV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English Construction	3 2	138 106	11 11	English Construction	3 2	138 106	11 11
Physics	3	164	11	Graphics	3	126	XV
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	X	Hist, of Arch.	2	109	XI
Freehand	2	•131	1	Freehand	2	131	1,
				Modelling		130	V
Pen-and-ink	1	i33	XIII	Water Color	1	133	XI
Design	7	IIO	XVI	Design	7	IIO	XVI
JUNIOR YEAR							
Economics	4	166	I	Adv. Cons’t	4	107	III
Adv. Cons.	4	107	III	Heat and Vent	2	108	VI
Sanitation	2	108	V	Electricity	1	133	I
				Theory Design	1	IIO	XIX
Freehand	2	129	II	Freehand	4	129	II
				Modelling *		130	V
Design	8	IIO	XVII	Design	8	IIO	XVII
SENIOR YEAR							
Ethics	163	30	III	Sociology	4	168	VIII
				Business Re-1			
				lations and 1	2	108	VII
				Professional {			•
				Ethics J			
History of Art	109	38	XIII	History of Art	1	109	XIII
Freehand	130	39	VI	Freehand	2	130	VI
Design	IIO1	4i	XVIII	Thesis Design	11	IIO	XVIII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	148	I	Anal. Geom.	5	149	II
Des. Geom.	3	131	III	Shades Shad-J ows, Persp’t’eJ	3	131	III
Construction	2	106	I	Construction	2	106	I
Freehand	2	131	I	Freehand	2 -	131	I
El. of Arch.	8	109	XV	El. of Arch.	8	109	XV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	*	5	149	hi	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Construction	2	106	11	Construction	2	106	11
Physics	5	164	11, in	Physics	5	164	11, in
Freehand	1	131	1	Freehand	1	131	1
Pen-and-ink	1	133	XIII	Water Color	1	133	XI
Design	7	I IO	XVI	Design	7	110	XVI
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh.	5	122	VIII	Anal. Meeh. Meeh’s of Mat.	2 3	122 123	VIII X
Adv. Cons.	2	107	hi	Adv. Cons.	2	107	III
Sanitation	2	108	V	Heat. & Vent.	2	108	VI
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	VIII	Electricity	1	133	I
Modelling	1	130	V	Hist, of Arch.	2	109	IX
Design	8	110	XVII	Design	8	I IO	XVII
SENIOR YEAR
Architectural Engineering	5	107	IV	Architectural Engineering	5	107	IV
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	X	Business Rela- tion Profes- sional Ethics	2	108	VII
Freehand Structural	i*	130	VI	Hist, of Arch.	2	109	XI
Design	12	IIO	XVIII	Design-Thesis	11	IIO	XVIII
94
BULLETIN OF THE
SHORT PROGRAM
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Descriptive Geometry	3	131	III	Shades and ] Shadows	3	131	III
Construction History of Architecture Freehand	2 2 2	106 109 131	I VIII I	Perspective J Construction History of Architecture	2 2	IO6 IO9	I IX
Elements of Architecture	II	109	XV	Freehand Modelling El. of Arch. Design	2 II	131 130 IO9 IIO	I, V XV XVI
SECOND YEAR
Construction	2	106	11	Construction	2	106	II
Sanitation History of	2	108	V	Heating and Ventilation	2	108	VI
Architecture	2	109	X	Graph. Statics	3	126	XV
Physics	3	164	II	Electricity	1	133	I
Freehand,	4	130	VI	Theory Design	1	IIO	XIX
Pen-and-ink	1	133	XIII	Freehand	2	130	VI
Design	6	IIO	XVII	Water Color Design	1 8	133 IIO	XI XVII
COLLEGE OF LAW
96
BULLETIN of thb
THE COLLEGE OF LAW
For several years a systematic movement has been in
-progress under the auspices of the bench and bar of the
country to elevate the standing and promote the effici-
ency of the legal profession, and make it as learned in fact
as it is in name. The most essential preliminary step to
■ this end, as lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe
requirements and examinations more comprehensive and
rigorous as a test of qualifications for admission to the
bar. Under the influence largely of the American Bar
Association, the period now commonly prescribed for
the study of law in a college is three years.
A period of three years study is prescribed for under-
graduates in the College of Law of the University of
Notre Dame. The courses lead when satisfactorily
completed to the degree Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate program comprises an additional or fourth
year, and leads to the degree of Master of Laws.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location of the
University for diligent and persevering work, it is possible
for industrious students to do at least a fourth more in
a year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into three
classes, corresponding to each year of the program leading
to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The Graduate
course is for students who have received that degree and
aim at attaining, by further study and practical work, to
a higher grade of proficiency. A full year of study in
each class is obligatory. Moreover, the student must pass
a satisfactory general examination at the close of each
scholastic year. Graduates entitled to vote are admitted
to the bar on motion of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	97
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are
admitted to the first year on presentation of a cer-
tificate of graduation from some High School accredited
to the State Universities or by examination on subjects
scheduled in any of the programs of the Preparatory
School at Notre Dame. Certificates showing that the
candidate has completed subjects required in any of the
four year programs of the Preparatory School at Notre
Dame, or of any other reputable preparatory school
giving equivalent courses, will be accepted in lieu of
examinations.
Students from other reputable law schools are received
at any time and allowed due credit for the work pre-
viously done. They must, however, be in residence for
at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice of the
profession or have only been admitted to the bar, as the
case may be, are admitted to the Senior class and entitled
to the degrees appropriate to their work and standing
at graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not intend to become candidates for
the degree of Bachefor of Laws, but wish simply to add
to their educational acquirements a knowledge of the
fundamental principles of law, may at any time in the
year have their names enrolled on the list of special
students. No extra expense is thereby incurred. Yet
they must be sufficiently advanced in age and education
to justify the belief that they can understand and appre-
ciate instruction in the law. No particular academic
entry requirement is prescribed for them, aside from
securing the consent of the Director of Studies and being
of sufficient age and capacity to understand and profit
by instruction in the law. The number of such stu-
98
BULLETIN of the
dents is likely to increase steadily, for year by year it is;
becoming more manifest that an education is not com-
plete without a knowledge of at least the elementary
legal principles. Many a person has been forced to do
exactly the contrary of what he intended through his-
failure to understand the essential elements of a contract.
Many a one has been compelled to pay heavy damages-
for personal injuries caused by negligence, or failure to
perform a duty, or improper performance of it, where
no liability would exist if the law of torts had been
known and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
TheHstudy of cases is usually begun in September and
continues long enough to enable students to understand,
analyze and criticise the decisions assigned to them for
study and recitation. Lectures and explanations sup-
plement this work. After thus familiarizing themselves
with cases, they are expected to read the authorities
cited daily in class, whether in the text-books, lectures
or quizzes. In the preparation also of written theses
from month to month, comprising on an average fifteen
pages of legal cap, they must necessarily consult and
cite them. In moot-court work, likewise, they are
prepared for actual practice by making a careful study
not only of the cases in the reports, but also of those
cited in text-books and digests.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of the
text-books they studied, and such as have merely
attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligible
to appear for examination. As many law students
come from States in which this test is applied, the use of
text-books is deemed necessary. The books used by
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
99
students become peculiarly serviceable in their subse-
quent practice. They may be purchased in the Students7'
Office at the University at the lowest retail prices^
The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25 a year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded at
Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination with,
text-book work, case readings and daily examinations^
its great value and utility can not be overestimated.
Bach subject is fully covered by lectures, text-book
work, weekly quiz, monthly thesis, bi-monthly exam-
inations, the reading of pertinent cases and formal trials,
in the moot court and other courts of the College..
Students have also the advantage of attending import-
ant cases in in the higher courts of South Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrious student can.
accomplish twice as much in a given time at Notre Dame
as he can in an office or at home. With comparative-
immunity from the distractions and temptations of city
life, he can give his entire time to study and necessary
recreation. In short, he can here study a greater number
of hours and do more class work day by day than prob-
ably anywhere else in the country.
Students have from three to four recitations daily
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. Brom one to two hours additional,
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
four hours weekly are required for moot court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this-
society and the moot court offer exceptional opportunity
and strong incentiveto acquire readiness in debate, fluency
in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much benefit
may be derived from attending the regular classes in elo-
cution and oratory in the College of Arts and Letters..
IOO
BULLETIN OB THB
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law Program
it is studied and kept before the class, with recitations
day by day at the same hour, until finished. It is
believed that in this way' the mind follows it more
elosely and that it is better understood than it would be
if frequently interrupted by the intervention of other and
dissimilar subjects.
THE MOOT COURT
All students are required to attend and participate in
the exercises of the moot court. Students of the first
year are expected to serve on juries and as witnesses,
while those of the second year assist the Seniors and
Graduates in the conduct of the trials. The court is
fully organized, having a judge, ‘ clerk, state's attorney,
sheriff, coroner and reporter. Pleadings are filed in the
clerk's office, served and returned by the sheriff, brought
.to an issue with due formality by the attorneys, and the
trial proceeds under the rules of evidence before a
member of the Faculty acting as judge.
In addition to the moot court, which corresponds to
the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully equipped
court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk, master-in-
chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its dis-
trict judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as closely
as practicable the actual procedure in the courts they
represent. Practice is combined with theory in their work.
The statement of facts in the cases tried are furnished
by the Faculty. Students acquire in this way a knowl-
<edge of the customary procedure in the regular courts.
UNIVERSITY OU NOTRE DAME.
IOI
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether any
of them shows more care in the choice of books, or is
better adapted for the use of students. All the latest
reports of State and Federal courts are on its shelves,
and no difficulty is experienced at any time in finding
the cases needed for reference, thesis writing and moot
court work. A great library, with a crowdingly large
attendance of students—too many to’ be personally
known by or to have personal attention from the
Faculty—may often be less available for use or accessible
than a comparatively small one. It happens sometimes-
ni such cases that twenty or more students are found
vainly scrambling at the same time to secure possession,
of a particular report or text-book. Such experience,
fortunately, does not fall to the lot of the young men
studying at Notre Dame. Not only all the latest reports,
but likewise the leading text-books, are to be found,
on thelibrary shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in moot
court trials, but must not be carried to private rooms,
nor hidden in desks. This rule is rigidly enforced by
the librarian. It is intended for the advantage and to
facilitate the work of the students in common, for all
have a right to feel reasonably certain that when a book
is needed it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
3,500, but so carefully have they been selected that
they may be said to surpass in practical utility many
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the law-
lecture room. It is practically open all day and until
9:30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation are
TO2
BULLETIN OB THE
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable hours
to law students. The library privileges are on a generous
’Scale, and students are not specially charged for making
proper use of the books, but if a book be lost or
injured through negligence the cost of the book is
charged to the borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
Bolds its metings on Wednesday evenings. All students
of the College are members of it. They are required,
each in his turn, to participate in its debates and other
exercises. The debates commonly deal with questions
'germane to the law, but subjects of history, political
economy, and the like, are also discussed. An excellent
opportunity is afforded at the meetings of the society to
develop skill, power and fluency in public speaking. One
of the professors usually presides and aids the members
with his counsel and suggestions. A Parliamentary Law
meeting, with exercises in public speaking and debating,
takes place each Wednesday afternoon.
THE COURSES IN LAW
The following plan is observed in the courses given in
the College of Law. The text-books used are noted
after each subject. A special recitation is held each day
for first year men, and is so noted in the schedule which
follows; a like arrangement obtains for third year men.
1906-07 AND EVERY SUCCEEDING THIRD YEAR
Blackstone’s Commentaries, Blickensderfer. (Lor begin-
ners.)
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	IO3
Contracts, Clark.
"'Torts, Hale.
Federal Procedure, Hughes.
.Agency, Tiffany.
^Partnership, George.
.Bills and Notes, Norton.
McMaster’s Irregular and Regular Commercial Paper,
Illustrations and Forms.	■
Insurance, Vance.
.International Raw, Glenn.
'Interpretation of Laws, Black.
-Sales, Case System.
’Moot Court Practice weekly.
’.Parliamentary Law weekly.
Monthly Thesis.
1907-08 AND EVERY SUCCEEDING THIRD YEAR
.Kent’s Commentaries, Browne. (For beginners.)
Persons and Domestic Relations, Tiffany.
Natural Law and Bthics, Lectures.
Code Pleadings, Case System.
Common Law Pleadings, Shipman.
Real Property, Hopkins.
Fquity Jurisprudence, Fetter.
Constitutional Law, Black.
Criminal Procedure, Clark.
Bailments and Carriers, Hale.
.Damages, Notes.from Lectures.
Moot Court Practice weekly.
.Parliamentary Law weekly.
Monthly Thesis.
104
BUIXETIN of ti-if
1908-09 AND EVERY SUCCEEDING THIRD YEAR
Robinson's Elements of American Jurisprudence. (Tor
beginners.)
Private Corporations, Clark.
Public Corporations, Ingersoll.
Criminal Law, Clark.
Equity Pleadings, Shipman.
Medical Jurisprudence, Lectures.
Evidence, Civil and Criminal, Case System.
Wills, Gardner.
Executors and Administrators, Croswell.
Suretyship and Guaranty, Pingrey.
Moot Court Practice weekly..
Parliamentry Law weekly.
Monthly Thesis.
Graduate Courses cover the entire field by way of
review, together with Moot Court practice, office work,
etc. The optional studies include Roman Law, Admi-
ralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright, Patents,.
Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc.
«?
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
©
( In the description of the courses of instruction an hour
means forty - five to sixty minutes in the recitation or lecture
room and one hundred and twenty minutes in the laboratory,
the drawing room or the shop. A term means a half year.'}
io6
bulletin of the
ANATOMY
I.
Human Histology* Laboratory work and demon-
strations. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Human Physiology.
II.
Human Histology* Lectures, recitations and labora-
tory work. The work covers a thorough course in
Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening,
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system — brain
and spinal cord, termination of nerve fibers, etc. Draw-
ings made from each preparation. Text-book,
Piersol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Human Anatomy* Lectures and recitations. Oste -
ology and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular,
vascular and nervous systems and of the organs of
special sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book,
Gray.
[Three hours a week for four terms.]
ARCHITECTURE
I. AND II.
Construction. In these courses the student obtains
a thorough knowledge of the materials and methods of
the mason’s, carpenter’s, metal worker’s and painter’s
trades. Bach trade is considered separately, and at con-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
107
elusion an exhaustive study of specification writing and
methods of* estimating for it is made. The University
constantly furnishes employment to a large force of
trained mechanics who will give personal lessons to the
student in all branches of these trades. Inspection visits
are made weekly, as a supplementary exercise in super-
intendence, to important building operations in the
neighborhood. Detail drawings of constructive methods
are made exactly as in an architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each
student is required to stake out on the campus one of
his projects and to furnish all levels required by the
builder in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of
■ the architect’s level and compass.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Advanced Construction. In this course the student
studies the construction and design of steel framing,
fireproofing of all forms, reinforced concrete, footings
and foundations.
Working drawings for one of the student’s projects
are made. Bspecial care and accuracy are demanded
in the preparation of the framing plans and details.
This work is traced and- blueprinted by Freshmen
students.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering. A course in which
are solved graphically and analytically more com-
plicated problems in structural design and applied
mechanics, with especial study of reinforced
concrete.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
108	BUIXBTIN OB THB
Sanitation. This subject is taught from text-book
and embraces sanitary engineering pertaining to build-
ings, as follows: sewerage, water supply, lighting and
ventilation, plumbing work, subsoil drainage, dry foun-
dation walls and cellars; also drawings of plumbing
systems and fixtures.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Heating- and Ventilation. This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam,
etc.,—are carefully examined and studied. The radia-
tion of heat from surfaces, the different systems of •
piping, condition of air as to moisture, amount of air
required, causes and best means adopted to secure pure
air; the necessity of good ventilation and the latest
approved methods for securing this all important feature
are some of the topics considered in this study.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Business Relations. This course consists of lectures
in which are given descriptions of a system of book-
keeping suited to the needs of an architect’s business,
a system of building accounts, filing system for cata-
logues and prints, a card - index system for prints and
general information; of forms for agreements with
clients, for proposals and acceptances, for contracts and
bonds, and for certificates; the laws affecting clients,
contractors and architects; and the rules of professional
ethics in private practice, competitions and municipal
affairs.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-	IO9
VIII,	IX, X AND XI.
History of Architecture* This course comprises a
Study of the early beginnings, growth and development
of architectural styles. It includes ethnography as
applied to architectural art; ancient architecture;
Egyptian architecture ; Assyrian architecture; Grecian
architecture; Etruscan, Roman arid Sassanian archi-
tecture; Christian architecture in France, Belgium and
Holland, Germany, Scandinavia, Bngland, Spain and
Portugal, and Italy; Saracenic and Ancient American
architecture; Byzantine architecture.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
XII.
History of Ornament* A study of the origin and
evolution of ornament and the application of the same
together with exercises in motive.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
History of Allied Arts* A brief study of the field of
art with especial reference to sculpture, metal work-
ing, mural painting, stained glass aud mosaic.
[Two hours a week for first term.]
[One hour a week for second term.]
XIV.	‘
History of Construction. A critical study of the
types of construction of the ancient, medieval and
modern builders, tracing the relation of the type to the
problem and the development of the style from the
type.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
The Elements of Architect tire. This course is a
study of the Five Orders of architecture and is given by
IIO
bulletin of thb
lectures, recitations and drawing. The study embraces
a thorough analysis of each order, in which the princi-
pal and distinguishing features of each are clearly shown
and comparisons made. Also a study in detail of the
forms and proportions characterizing each is made in the
class room. Problems pertaining to the orders are given
in the drawing room, and detail drawings and colorings
made.
flight hours a week for two terms.]
XVI,	XVII and XVIII.
Design. The study of problems in architectural
design, embodying the subjects of composition and form.
This course expands from Elementary Design (second
year) to Advanced Design and Thesis Work (fourth
year), and includes the handling of design in monu-
mental structures, and its application to modern build-
ings, such as hospitals, theaters, municipal buildings,
libraries, churches, etc.
The program for the second year requires the
execution of nine minor, and nine major problems
that for the third year of nine minor and six major
problems; that for the fourth year of four minor and
three major problems and the thesis.
Students of the Engineering Program will be given
Engineering problems exclusively beginning with the
second term of the third year.
[Seven, eight and twelve hours a week,
respectively, for three years.]
Theory of Design. A thorough study of the princi-
ples of planning and proportion supplemented by study
of the perfection and faults of the world’s most famous
buildings.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
Ill
ASTRONOMY
Astronomy* Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students and
to give them the training -and information necessary for
intelligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their pro-
fessional career. The course comprises a study of
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of more
precision than those used in ordinary surveying. The
adjustment and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computation; problems in finding right ascensions and
declination; different methods for finding latitude, longi-
tude and time are studied in detail, and the methods of
making the observationg and their adjustments, and dis-
cussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into sidereal,
and sidereal time into solar. In connection with this
subject is given a more complete study of many of the
topics considered in elementary astronomy, as here they
are treated mathematically; as for example, methods for
finding parallax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and
correction for refraction. The subjects of procession,
nutation, annual aberration, proper motion of stars,
etc., are studied. Text-books, Young, Greene.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY
Lectures and Laboratory Work. Lectures on the
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
112
BUBLBTIN OB THB
pointed out. . The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture media
and in studying pure cultures of certain nonpathogenic
bacteria in these media. Observations on the micro-
scopic characteristics of bacteria and special attention to
the microscopic technique required in bacteriological
work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic
bacteria. Emphasis is given to the detection of patho-
genic germs by the various staining processes. Inocula -
tion of animals. Bacteriological investigation of water, air
and soil. Text-book, Abbott's Principles of Bacteriology.
[Three laboratory hours a week for one term.]
BOTANY
I.
Botany* Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the
development of the embryo and the processes of pollina-
tion and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell, of
its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and the
various physiological phenomena; the structure, growth,
reproduction and general classification of the algse,
fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants.
Text-book, Bastin' s College Botany.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Botanical Laboratory. Supplementary to Course
I. Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryo-
phyta, pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in
Course I. Drawings must be made of all plants
examined. Plants under these headings are collected
and put before the student that he may become familiar
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	H3
with, their morphology, structure and classification.
The course is to accompany or to be preceded Course I. Pro-
vision is also made in this course for students in pharmacy
to take a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical
botany. Study of the determination and classification
of the simpler officinal plants. The analysis of the phan-
erogams occupies the time during the spring months and
the student is made familiar with the habitat and char -
acteristics of the local flora. Text - book for classification
of plants, Britton's Manual.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Botany. Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same
as that laid out in Strasberger's or Vine's text-book of
Botany. Special study is made of the physiology,
ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and classification of
plants. Text - book, Strasberger.
' [Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany. Supplementary to
Course III., and either following or accompanying it:
(a) Plant Histology and Physiology. Half of the
time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to plant
histology and physiology. The student is required to
study practically the methods of killing, fixing, embed -
ding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of plant
tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(b} Plant Classification, Advanced. The other half
of the laboratory work is devoted to the determination
and classification of the more difficult plants, the con-
positae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc. Herbarium
study is required, as well as preparing and collect-
BULLETIN OB THE
114
ing plants for preservation. During spring and autumn
frequent excursions into the neighboring fields and
woods are made for the purpose of studying and collect -
ing for preservation the local aquatic and land flora.
Text-book, Britton's Manual.
[One and one-half to two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Systematic Botany* Principally laboratory and her-
barium work in special groups of phanerogams and'
cryptograms. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in botany. Library,
reference books and seminar work.
CHEMISTRY
I.
(a) General Chemistry* A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing a
study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text - book Remsen's Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(£) A Laboratory Course covering in. the labora-
tory the work of the Lecture Course (I. a) and designed
to accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
'	- [Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a} General Descriptive Chemistry. Recitations and
experimental lectures treating of the fundamental princi -
pies of chemistry, and designed to meet the requirements
of the students of the College of Engineering. Text-
book, General Inorganic Chemistry, Alexander.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	115
(#) A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the needs
of Engineering students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
III.
(«) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry* Bor Biologi-
cal, General Science and Chemistry students. Lectures
and recitations. A complete study of the elements and
their most important compounds, following the classifi-
cation based on Mendeleefi’s Law, and including a
discussion of the theories of the science. Careful atten -
tion is given to the technical chemical processes and
industries, and to the writing of chemical reactions.
Text book, Neivth's Inorganic Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(b} Experimental Chemistry* A Laboratory course
to accompany Course III. (a), the work consisting
of the preparation by the student of the elements and
their more typical compounds, determination of molecu-
lar weights, verification of the fundamental laws of
chemistry, etc. During the latter part of the course,
special attention is given to the.characteristic reactions
of the metals and to the principles of chemical analysis.
Text - book,’ Thorp.
[Two hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.]
IV.
Qualitative Analysis. The work of this course com -
prises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions
involved in the separation and detection of the more com -
mon inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mix-
tures of salts, and complex substances such as earths, ores,
ashes, etc. Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by lectures.
[Tour hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
Il6	bulletin oe the
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and vol-
umetrically. Complete analysis of a number of simple
salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis-of many
complex substances. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Pour hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
VI.
(a) Elementary Organic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their
properties. Special attention is given to the aliphatic
and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(A) Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prepa -
ration by the student in the laboratory of the most im -
portant and typical organic compounds and the investiga -
tion of their properties. Text-book, Gattermaris Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
‘ VII.
(«) Urinary Analysis. A course of laboratory
exercises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as well
as normal. Text - book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(J)) Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of
poisoning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	117
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
1.	Gas Analysis.
11.	Water Analysis.
in. Sugar Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and Fats.
vi.	Iron Analysis. -
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(«) Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(£) Advanced Organic Laboratory, (i) The first
term of this course is spent principally in the mak-
ing of organic preparations by methods demanding
special care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2)
The second term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis,
qualitative and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydro-
gen, the halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic
compounds by the various methods; also in the determi -
nation of molecular weights of organic compounds.
Text-books, special notes and reference works.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
X.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this course,
the chemical bases and their compounds are con -
sidered, with special reference to their importance in
u8
BULLETIN OF THE
pharmacy and materia medica.	Text-book, Sad tier's
and Trimble's Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XI.
(a) Electrochemistry. Lectures, experiments and
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and their
application in the chemical industries, separation of
metals, the preparation of chemical elements and elec-
trosynthesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen and
Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(#) Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI. («). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electrochemis-
try, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electrometallurgy.
Quantitative determination of metals electrolytically.
Text-books, Lupke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry. The subject is divided
into topics and epochs of special interest in the develop -
ment of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at
length, together with the biographies of the men who
aided in their development. Lectures and recitations.
Seminar and journal work for advanced students.
Text - book, Meyer. References to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(«) Physical Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas
density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the phase rule,
thermochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van
Deventer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	HQ
(£) Experimental Physical Chemistry. Labora -
tory work to accompany Course XIII. (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, molecular
weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling point
methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV,
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric
determinations of inorganic substances. Special refer-
ence work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]	'
XVI.
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine.
FIRST YEAR
Moral. The Articles of the Creed. The General
Principles of Morality. Virtue and Sin. The Com-
mandments of God. Text-book, Manual of Christian
Doctrine.
120
BUIXETIN OF THE
SECOND YEAR
Moral* The Commandments of the Church. The
Evangelical Counsels and Beatitudes. Worship and
Means of Sanctification,— Grace, Prayer, the Sacra-
ments, Liturgy. Text-book, Manual of Christian
Doctrine.
THIRD YEAR
Dogma* Revealed Religion., Pre-Christian Revela-
tion. The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church.
God Considered in Himself. Text-book, Wilmer's
Hand - book of the Christian Religion.
FOURTH YEAR
Dogma* God the Creator. God the Redeemer.
Sanctification. Grace. The Sacraments. The Church
as a Means of Salvation. Text-book, Wilmer1 s Hand -
book of the Christian Religion.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
TT
_L.
Descriptive Geometry* In this course are considered
problems on the point, right line, • and plane; single
curved, double curved, and warped surfaces; problems
relating to tangent planes, to single curved, double
curved, and warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces by
planes, tangencies, development of surfaces; spherical
projections; orthographic, stereographic, globular,
cylindrical, and conic projections; construction of maps,
shades and shadows; linear perspective; isometric pro -
j ections; theory and plates. Numerous practical
problems and exercises requiring the application of the
principles of Descriptive Geometry, are added by the
instructor. Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	121
II	.
Surveyings This course comprises the whole .theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land; divid-
ing up land; public lands survey. Text-book, Gillespie.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Ill
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in
the class room; practice in keeping field notes; compu-
tation and plots.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
:	IV.
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit
and stadia; mining surveying; mining claims; survey .
of mines with shafts and drifts; determining positions
of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface; theory of
hydrographic and city surveying; geodetic surveying
and leveling; measuring base fines; adjustments of
angles, triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude and azi-
muth; time and longitude; changing mean time into
sidereal.time and sidereal time to mean time. Text-
book, Johnson.	‘
[Five hours a week for one term.]
122
bulletin of the
Surveying* Exercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the field, leveling; practice in hydro -
graphic surveying.	'
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Railroad Surveying. This course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets; obstacles to location of curves; special
1
problems in curves; theory of compound curves; turnouts
and crossings; curving the rail on curves and elevation of
outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical curves;
earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory of excavation
and embankment; correction in excavation on curves;
cross - section leveling; theory of the transition curve and
practical applications. Text-books, Searle, Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Railroad Surveying. Exercises in the field; staking
out and running tangents, simple, compound and transi -
tion curves; execution on the ground of many problems
previously treated theoretically; survey for a short line of
railroad, leveling, cross - section work, and setting slope
stakes; making profiles and maps; calculating'the neces-
sary excavations and embankments and cost of construc-
tion; culverts.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VIII.
&
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	123
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics, and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
students to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation of
energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction,
etc. Text-book, Ziwet.
(^Required of students in Civil, Electrical and Mechani-
cal Engineering.')
[Five hours a week for first term. Two hours a week
for second term.]
IX.
Geodesy ♦ This is an elementary course prescribed for
Civil Engineering students in the Junior year, and com-
prises a study of the instruments and methods of obser-
vation, base measurements and field work of the triangu-
lation; methods of least squares, elementary course;
calculation of the triangulation, and theory of probable
errors; geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths.
This is followed by a brief discussion of the figure of the
earth. Text-book, Merriman.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Mechanics of Materials. This course is intended to
meeet the requirements of engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of
forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of the
124
BULLETIN OB THE
materials of engineering, their properties and methods
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and continu-
ous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns are
examined according to Euler’s, Rankine’s, and other
formulae, and results compared. Some of the other
subjects considered in this course, are torsion of shafts,
the transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and
torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams, reinforced
concrete beams, plate girders and other forms. Then is
studied the subjects, resilience and work, impact and
fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal tension and
flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams',—the course clos-
ing with a study of the mathematical theory of elasticity.
Text-book, Merriman.
{Required of students in Civile Electrical and Mechani-
cal Engineering.')	'
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended to
familiarize the student with the practical details of lay -
ing out and constructing highways, the method of drain -
age, grading, and most suitable road covering, the
improvement of streets in cities and materials used for
paving and covering. The manner of preparing the
street before paving is placed in position is fully con -
sidered and illustrated. The course includes a thorough
discussion of the theory of pavements and a description
of the various materials used, such as cobble and stone-
block, asphalt, brick, wood and broken stone pavements.
The method of preparing plans and specifications for the
various conditions arising are considered and original
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	125
plans are prepared by students. Attention is also given
to the construction of street-car tracks in paved streets.
Text-book, Baker.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering. This course is taken by students of
Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches the best
approved methods of constructing engineering works
and the styles of structures suitable for different locali -
ties. The study is .quite comprehensive including the
general theory of the arch and application to the voussoir
arch; the theory of earth pressure, and the design of
retaining walls; foundations suitable for structures of
various classes in connection with which the student
becomes acquainted, not only' with the methods for
ascertaining the bearing power of the foundation, but
also the means for constructing deep foundations. The
methods for tunnel construction, sewer construction, irri-
gating canals, river improvements, are included in the
course and given by text - book and lectures. The part
pertaining to masonry construction includes a study of
the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the manner of
testing foundations under water, the crib and open cais -
son process, the pneumatic process, the theory of
masonry arches and design, arch centers, selection of
site for bridge piers and arrangement of spans, the
details of construction of bridge piers and manner of
location, specifications for masonry, etc. Text-books,
Howe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts; shape, material and calcula -
126	bulletin of the
tion of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation;
separate and combined systems compared; pollution of
rivers; chemical precipitation; results and costs of purifi -
cation; general municipal and domestic sanitation;
inspection of neighboring works. Text-book, Staley
and Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
.	XIV.	.
Bridges and Roofs. This course comprises a study of
the different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses,
and the calculation of the strains produced when loaded '
in any manner, the weight of the structure and the
effect of wind included. Both graphical and analytical
methods are used. Besides the various systems of
trussed bridges, which are studied in detail, the plate
girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges, draw
bridges, and roofs of various designs are given equal
attention; the purpose being to familiarize the student
with the different forms and enable him to design and to
estimate the cost of construction. Text - book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically deter-
mined by the application of the principles of the force and
equilibrium polygons; also the determination of stresses
in bridge trusses with parallel chords and with broken
chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive-wheel
loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof trusses,
graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical and unsym-
metrical cases, graphical methods of arch-ribs of hinged
ends, and .of fixed ends; stress diagrams; temperature
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	127
stresses; braced arches; graphics applied to continuous
girders. This course is supplemented by full expla-
nations, notes, examples, and problems. Text-book,
Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XVI.	.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study of
the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrody-
namics, to which are added many practical exercises,
The subjects submitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem with
friction; Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over
weirs, and through tubes; flow in pipes; loss of head in
friction and other losses; flow in conduits, canals, and
rivers ; velocities in cross sections; methods of gauging
the flow, measurement of water power, dynamic pressure
of flowing water; designing of waterworks and stand -
pipes; hydraulic motors and relative merits; discussion
of water wheels of different types, and a study of the
conditions determining high efficiencies; classification of
turbines, and a complete study and discussion of the
different forms. Text-book, Merriman.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
DRAWING, ARTISTIC
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough foun -
dation in drawing for those who wish to make Art a pro -
fession, but the courses are so arranged as to be access -
ible to other students. The system of teaching, which
is that followed in the best art schools, is intended to
develop the individuality of each student, so that with
a good understanding of the principles of art he may
interpret nature according to his own temperament.
128
BULLETIN OB THE
The work is done altogether from cast, object and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer
many beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes, and
the classes are taken out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was carefully selected at the National School
of Tine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
Full Figure. The Diadumenos (British Museum); the
Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically: the
Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michel
Angelo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre);
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads. Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol); Cato (Rome, the Vatican); Cicero (Rome,
the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa (Lou-
vre); Venus (Vatican); Centurion (Naples); Ariadne
(the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples); Vestal
(Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters of
Niobe (Florence).
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and archi -
tectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity,
the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and of elements of
the human figure (hands, feet, etc.) from the antique,
and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(«) Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geomet -
rical, such as moldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc. Sketching
from simple objects.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	129
(#) Drawing from casts of ornaments of which, the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves
and flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves and
flowers.
(c) Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on per-
spective, direction of the principal lines in relation to the
horizon. Blementary notions of the five orders of
architecture.
Drawing from casts of the human figure: hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a)	Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape Appli-
cations of perspective.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketch-
ing from the costumed model. Still life in water
colors. History of Art.
III.	‘
Life Class. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science Hall.
Still life painting in water colors and oil. Landscape
painting. Drawing for illustration.
IV.
Sketch Class. One hour a week. The students
have themselves an organization, “The Crayon Club,”
the object of which is to sketch college scenes and to do
illustrative work; these sketches are brought into class
and criticised.

8
130	BULLETIN" OB THE
Modelling:* One entire week in the spring terms of
the Sophomore, Junior and Senior years in Architecture
is devoted to modelling in clay. The objects modelled
are architectural forms, copied from the cast or made
from the student’s drawings of his own work, as his
progress and ability may warrant.
VI.
Class of Decorative Design. The object of this
department is to prepare students for professional work
in decorative designings of all kinds. They will take up
the study of historical-ornaments and will be taught the
several principles of the arrangement of designs, and
from personal sketches of plants and flowers will be
shown the art of making original designs for wall paper,
book covers, stained glass, carpets, interior decorations,
metal plates, etc. No particular program is given out
as the teaching is purely individual.
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may
be trained in outline drawing in pencil and pen. Then
follows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the
use of instruments is taken up. Beginning with the
instruments, attention is given to accurate draughtsman -
ship upon plates, illustrating problems of Civil, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and Architectural Engineering. This
work is continued throughout the courses.
\_Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for
each credit hour on the schedule^
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	I3I
I.
Freehand. This course consists of sketching with
pencil and pen from flat copies and models of machine
parts, and freehand lettering. Later in the term, the
use of instruments, section - lining and lettering are
taught. Text-book, Jamison s Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the prin -
ciples of projections, methods of shop - drawing, tinting,
tracing, blueprinting, line-shading and the preparation
of working drawings of complete machines. This
course must be preceded by Course I. Text-book,
Jimison ’ 5 Man ual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates is
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective
and isometric projections. {Students in Architecture are
requird to do advanced work in shades and shadows and
bersbective.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing. Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involving
the application of kinematics and the computation of
dimensions.
[Two hours a week for two terms]
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
132
bulletin oe the
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I.
Text-book, Reed.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VI.
Stereotomy. This course comprises a study of the
application of the principles of Descriptive’ Geometry to
the determination of the forms and sizes of the stones
used in the construction of the different classes of arches
and masonry structures. This course is given by lec-
tures in the drawing room, explaining the construction
of templates, and the use of directing instrument; also
explanations of methods of drawing plans, elevation and
development of oblique arches, wing walls and the like.
A certain number of plates and drawings is required,
illustrating the methods of performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry constructions, foundations, dams, piers, abut-
ments, culverts and arches. Text-book, French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from simple
framed girders to complete bridge - trusses of various de-
signs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineering. Com-
plete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings,—a
short general course of bridge designing for Seniors.
[Three hours a week for two terms. ]
VIII.
Machine Drawing. A continuation of Course I.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical design
with calculation of dimensions and construction of draw-
ings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low's Machine
Drawing and Design.
[ Three hours a week for two terms. ]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME. ‘	133
IX.
Freehand* The principles of freehand drawing in
pencil and pen from objects, and later from biological
specimens, plants, animals and microscopical prepara-
tions.
[Two hours a week for two terms. ]
-	X.
Freehand* Advanced drawing from plants and anat-
omical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publi-
cations.
[Two hours a week for two terms. ]
XI.
Water Color* Drawing in water color from still life
and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
Rendering in Water Color. The rendering of archi-
tectural drawings, including perspectives,—casting of
shadows, color treatments of buildings, and handling of
foreground and background.
•	[One hour a week for one term. ]
XIII.
Pen and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art; fol-
lowed by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
. ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING*
I.
Applied Electricity. A course of lectures and reci-
tations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on the
general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
134
BULLETIN OB THE
application to practical work, as follows : Setting up and .
testing primary and secondary batteries, systems of call
bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire and burglar
alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switch boards and
accessories. Experiments with induction coils, magnets,
switches, voltmeters, ammeters, wheats tone bridges,
galvanometers and other measuring instruments. The
study of direct current generators and motors, arc and
incandescent lighting systems, street railway machinery
and appliances, electric heating and forging, electrolytic
processes, etc. Text-book, Sivoope's Practical Electricity.
( Students in Architecture spend one term in this course. )
[Five hours a week for two terms]
II.
Applied Electricity. Lectures and laboratory work
on the construction and testing of switches, magnets,
measuring instruments, induction coils, etc. The cal-
culation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for
lighting and power, the experimental study of alternating
current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the fitting
and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally testing
for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to special pur-
poses. This course must be preceded by Course I
( Courses I. and II. are required in the Short Program
Electrical Engineering ; they are electivefor general students
■and those studying telegraphy. )
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.	’
Dynamo-Electric Machinery. Recitations on the phys-
ical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions and. '
reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAVE.
135
.theory of armature winding, the mathematical theory
of alternating currents, phase relations, modern forms
of single phase and multiphase generators and motors,
design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon's Dynamo
Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason's Alternating
Currents.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
’	IV.
Electrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring build -
ings for lights and power, testing circuits for insula-
tion and grounds,, construction and operation of storage
batteries, management and care of dynamos, charac-
teristic curves of particular machines under different
conditions, efficiency tests of motors by absorption
dynamometer methods, alternating current dynamo and»
transformer tests, the testing of storage batteries, and
complete plant efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Designing. The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance, and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of
circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawings of
direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting. ,
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I	.
Readings and Declamations. This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Lach
student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
'136
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of Course
I. Bach student is required to give three declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
III.
Practical Elocution. Exercises in breathing, voice
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation
and emphasis and their application in the reading of
selections. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood's Practical
Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Practical Elocution. Further exercises in breathing,
voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and time.
Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on the
principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood's
Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Oral Discussions. The application of formal logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and
a course in logic are required for admission to this course.
Sections are limited to twenty-four students-.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Shakesperian Reading. The critical and artistic read -
ing of two of Slrakespere’s plays accompanied with stage
action. The students present the play by scenes before
the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for admis-
sion to this course. Sections are limited to twenty - four
students. This course alternates with Course VII.
described below.
[One hour a week for one term.]
9
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	137
VII.	•
Oratory. ■ A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Bach student is required to write and
deliver a biographical oration on one of the great orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III.
and IV. above, and Course I. in English are required for
admission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty -
four students This course alternates with Course VI.
described above.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Assembly Work. This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists
of debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptus and drill work in parliamentary law.
[One hour a week for six terms.]
ENGLISH
I.
(a) Prose Forms. Special treatment of Exposition
and Argumentation. Genung" s Working Principles of
Rhetoric, Part IL Frequent practice in writing essays.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(#) Heydrich' s How to Study Literature, with prac-
tical exercises in analysis of literary forms.	<
[One hour a week for one term.]
(0 Literature. Higginson and Boynton's. In this
course the student acquires a good knowledge of the con-
tents of American literature. The biography of men of
letters is also a part of this course.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
138
bulletin of the
(^) Lyric Poetry. The technique is carefully laid down
and choice specimens of lyric poetry are read critically in
class. There is much required reading and writing.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
(a) Prose Forms. Special study of the Novel and
the Short Story. The development of the novel is care-
fully studied, and its kinship with other forms of narra-
tive is pointed out. Frequent practice in writing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(£) Literature. The development of Bnglish litera-
ture is studied, minute attention being given to great
periods.
[One hour a week for two term.]
(y) The Sonnet. Technique and analysis of famous
sonnets.
[One hour a week for one-term.]
III.
(a)	Prose Forms. Intensive study of the Bssay and
the Oration. Bach student in this course is required to
read the great essays and orations in Bnglish literature.
He must produce four essays and two orations during
the term.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(	b) Literature. Recent Bnglish and American Poetry.
This course deals not only with the best work done in
recent volumes -of collected verse, but also takes account
of the best fugitive pieces in the magazines.
[Two hours a week for One term.]
(^) Didactic Poetry and Satire. This course involves
reading chiefly.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
139
IV.
(<2) The Laws of the Epic and the Drama* Ker's
treatise on the Epic with required reading's in narrative
poetry. Frey tag's Technique of the Drama, with
supplementary notes.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(Jf Shakespere. Reading and Analysis of Plays.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(f) The Leading Poets of the Nineteenth Century*
Analytical study and required reading.
[One hour a y/eek for two terms.]
Graduate Work in English. Students wishing to do
advanced work in English will be provided with library
facilities and led through the usual work for the degree
of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Faculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form or
epoch, or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by professors make up the course.
GEOLOGY
I.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow.-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
140
BUIXKTIN OB THE
II.
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assay-
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book^
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
III.
Geology. Lectures, recitations, demonstrations. The
study of the general features of the earth; the material
composing the accessible parts of the earth; the arrange -
ments of the material in rocks; the causes of geological
changes; the history of the earth and the various forms
of life that existed in the different periods of successive
geological ages. Text-book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term. ]
GERMAN.
I.
Grammar, Joynes- Meissner, Part I. Translation from
German into English of simple prose; translation of
English exercises into German. Reading of short
stories and selections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and, Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part II. Translation
into German of narrative prose and selections from
history. Sight reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorethea, Goethe', Lichtenstein, HauJJ
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Joynes - Meissner, Part III. Sight reading-
of plays, poems and prose writing. Translation of
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
141
selections from history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm (Lessing ) ; Best known poems,
{Heine)', Correspondence {Schiller- Goethe.)
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK.
’ I.
Lysias. Orations selected. Short history of the Attic
orators.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Bpitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., V.Stoffel
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
II.
Lysias. Orations selected.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St. John Chrysostom. Lutropius.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
III.	'
Herodotus. Selections. Study of Herodotus dialect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
.St. Basil. De Profanis Scriptoribus.
[Tour hours a week for one term. ]
IV.
Herodotus. Selections.
Selections from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
a St. Gregory. Machabees.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
142
BULLETIN OB TH^
Demosthenes* The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics. Review of the political
situation at Athens and events bearing upon the ora-
tions.
T hucy dides. Book I. Greece before the Pelopon-
nesian War. Importance of this war in Greek history.
The speeches will form the subjects for special class
interpretations. Stylistic differences between pure Attic
and archaic Attic will be pointed out.
During this course special attention will be given to
textual and exegetical criticism, practically shown by
passages selected for that purpose. This is done in the
belief that it is the best way to make students appreciate
the notes in school editions of classical authors.
Practical Exercises — Embodying idiomatic expressions
of the authors read.
[Pour hours a week for one term. ]
VI.
Aeschylus* One play to vary each year. In connec-
tion with it will be discussed the origin of the drama,
the part of the chorus in the early tragedy and the reli-
gious tenets of Aeschylus. The structure of a Greek
tragedy, the iambic trimeter and the lyric meters will be
sufficiently explained so as to be properly appreciated by
the students. Incidentally also the Greek festivals, at
which the plays were staged, and the Dionysiac theater
will be discussed.	•
Sophocles. Oedipus Tyrannus and Antigone. Digest
of the Theban legends. Religious views of Sophocles
compared with those of Aeschylus,
Elements of Greek Literature. Students shall use
Jebb's Primer of Greek Literature.
[ Four hours a week for one term. ]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	143
VII.
Euripides* One play, to vary each. year. Religious
Tendencies of Buripides. His style as compared with
that of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Dramatic art, and
his right to the title of “Scenic Philosopher.’’
Aristophanes. One play, selected from the following
list: The Acharnians, the Knights, the Frogs, the Clouds,
the Birds, or the Wasps. In connection with the reading
of these plays will be treated the Greek comedy, —its
origin, nature, and aim. Aristophanes, the great bur-
lesque critic of Athenian life and manners. The structure
of a comedy compared with that of a tragedy.
Practical Exercises in Greek composition.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Pindar. Selected Odes, in connection with which the
public games will be studied. Elective.
Greek Fathers. St.Basil. The Martyr Gordius. St.John '
Chrysostom. The Return of Bishop Flavian. St. Gregi
ory Nazianzen. Funeral Oration of Caesarius. Elective.
Plato. Apology and Crito. Socrates—his friends and
enemies. Athenian court proceedings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.	.	.
Graduate Work in Greek. Advanced courses of in-
struction in the Greek language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who look forward to the
Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work will be
the Greek seminar, devoted to the interpretation of pas-
sages selected for that purpose by the director of the
seminar, and to a critical study of one particular author
or of a group of authors in the same department of Greek
-literature; as for instance, Homer, Plato or the orators,
the historians, the dramatists, etc.
144
bulletin of the
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of comparative philology, on
comparative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
For those who desire a broader basis for their linguistic
studies, an elementary course in Sanskrit will be offered.
HISTORY.
ANCIENT HISTORY.
I.
(	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of the Hel-
lenic world. Readings and examinations on required texts.
This course is given in alternato years with Course I. (b}
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(£) Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions. Read-
ings, and examinations of required texts. This course
is given in alternate years with Course I. Qa)
In both courses, the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges1 The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for two terms. ]
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY.
II
(<2 ) The History of the Middle Ages from the invasion
of the barbarians, and the history of the periods of the
Renaissance and the Reformation of 1603. Readings,
and examinations on required texts.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
( b ) The General History of Europe from the begin-
ning of the seventeenth century to the present time.
Readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term. ]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
145
III.
The History of the British Isles to the Revolution in 1689.
For the narrative Gardiner's Students History is used as
a text and is supplemented by lectures. In the study of
the development of political institutions Feilderis Consti-
tutional History is used. In addition, students shall make
free use of the library in preparing special topics upon
which they shall report orally in class.
[Four hours a week for two terms. ]
a
AMERICAN HISTORY.
IV.
(«) American History from Its Beginning to 1763.
A large part of the work of this and the following course
consists in the preparation and presentation in class of
special topics by the students. An effort will be made
to train the student in the use of original sources as well
as in the discriminating use of secondary works. Weekly
written tests are given upon the -lectures and the
assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(5)	American History from 1763 to the Present Time
Treatment as in (a) above. Also a book review, - a
bibliographical report and a biographical essay by
each student.
[Three hours a week for two terms. ]
V.
Research Work in History. Facilities are offered
to graduate students who wish to do advanced work in
history leading to the Master’.s or the Doctor’s degree.
Evidence to begin specializing must be given by candi-
dates who have received their Bachelor’s - degree at
another College. The work is directed in the seminar
and is supplemented by lectures.
146
bulletin of the
LATIN.
I.
Livy. Book XXI. Study of Livy’s grammar and style.
Cicero. Hpistles selected.
Prose Composition. Frequent practice in writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Livy. Book XXII.
Cicero. De Senectute and De Amicitia.
Pliny. Bpistles selected.
Prose Composition. Frequent writing of continuous
prose.
[ Four hours a week for one term. ]
III.
Cicero. De Oratore. Book I.
Horace. Odes and Bpodes. Study of metrical systems;
peculiarities of styles; plan of composition; comparison
with Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice in
writing.
[ Four hours a week for one term. ]
IV.
Tacitus. Dialogus De Oratoribus.
Horace. Odes and Bpodes; or, Satires selected. See
Course III.
Terence. Phormio. Short history of Greek and Roman
comedy.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice in
writing.
[Four hours a week for one term. ]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAMP.
147
V.
Livy. Roman History, First Book. In the reading-
of the text particular attention is called to the rules of
syntax—roots and derivation of words—and the ancient
history, geography and mythology.
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases or
original. Short fables and stories.
Horace. Fpistula ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
criticised from a philological and literary standpoint.
Ancient Literature. Historians and Lyric Poets : their
lives, their works, their genius.
[Four hours a week for one term. ]
VI.
Tacitus. Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations’
Terence. Andria. Sight reading.
Horace. The Literary Fpistles.
Weekly practise in written composition, Latin con-
versation and versification.
Ancient Literature. Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Quintilian. De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth and
Twelfth. Translation. The explanation embraces a liter-
ary criticism of Grecian and Roman orators, and practical
remarks on Latin idioms and the fine arts of antiquity.
Short orations or dissertations, and practical conver-
sations take place weekly.
Plautus. Captivi. The^study of the play gives a full
knowledge of the characters, the plot, the style, the archaic
forms and the construction peculiar to the author.
14.8
buixmtin of thb
Ancient Literature. Orators, especially Demosthenes
and Cicero.
[Pour hours a week for one term. ]
VIII.
Cicero. De Ofliciis. Partly sight reading. Besides
the study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of
Grecian philosophy, and continual reference is made to
Course III. in philosophy.
Oratorical and philosophical compositions alternate
weekly. Latin conversations on general topics.
Lucretius. De Rerum Natura. Select passages. Syn-
opsis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous
philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the
errors of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature. Philosophers, particularly Socrates,
Plato, Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Pour hours a week for one term. ]
IX
Graduate Work in Latin. Advanced courses of instruc-
tion in the Latin language and literature will be pro-
vided for graduate students who are candidates for the
degree of Master or Doctor. The work will be directed
in the seminar and be devoted to a critical study of one
particular author or group of authors.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by lectures
on comparative philology and comparative grammar.
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the binom -
ial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,
s
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.	149
c
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
thorough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation, detached coefficients, surd and imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s
theorem; Horner’s method; roots of complex number
and trigonometric solution of cubic equations. Text-
book, Wen tworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Geometry. This course includes a study
of the point and right line; conic sections, their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; higher plane
curves, equations of the third degree; different systems
of coordinates; transformation of coordinates; spirals;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces
• of revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric
surfaces and supplementary propositions. Text-books,
Bailey, Wood.
[Five hours a week for one term. ]
III.
Calculus, Differential. This course as also Courses
IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements of Engi-
neering students. It includes a study of the methods for the
differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions, suc-
cessive differentiation, and differential coefficients; treat-
ment of implicit and compound functions; expansion of
functions; indeterminate forms; partial differential coef-
ficients of the first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature,' radius of curvature; envelopes; singular
bulletin of thk
150
points of curves, maxima and minima of functions of one
independent variable, and of several independent vari-
ables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane areas
surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus, Integral. Integration of elementary forms
and of rational fractions; integration by rationali-
zation and by parts; successive integration; multiple
integrals; definite integrals, limits of integration; double
integration applied to plane areas; rectification of plane
curves; quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revo-
lution ; surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equa-
tion of a curve. This course is supplemented by numer-
ous exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborne. "
[Five hours a week for three months.0]
V.
Differential Equations. An elementary course for
Bngineering students, supplementary to the course of
integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and first degree; equations of the first order,
but not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear
equations with constant coefficients; special forms of
equations with higher orders* Numerous applications
to mechanics and physics . are introduced during the
course. Text-book, Murray.
’	[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Advanced Work. The prescribed courses in pure
mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students required to constitute a class in
any one subject must be at least five. '
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	151
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal,
(£) Advanced work in Trigonometery, Todhunter, Lock,
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir. (d) Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (/) Advanced Calculus,
Beyerly, Todhunter, Williamson, (y) Advanced Analytic
Geometry, Salmon, (g) Analytic Geometry of Three
Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon. (K) Quaternions,
Hardy with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject. ]
&
o
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condensers, refrig-
erating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in
detail. Frequent reference is made to trade catalogues,'
of which an abundant supply should be obtained by the
student. Text-book, The Steam Engine, by Holmes.
[ Five hours a week for one term. ]
II.
Materials of Engineering. This course, supplemented
by shop work and laboratory work in testing materials
of construction, is designed for the purpose of
acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up, and estimates of the cost
buixktin of thk
152
of construction at market prices complete the work,
Text-book, Thurston's Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term. ]
III.
Steam Engine Design. In this course the forms and
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines
for specific work are taken up, giving the student a
thorough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest
researches and contemporary practice may be consulted
0
in the numerous publications found in the University
Library. During the first term of the Senior year is re-
quired the complete design with working drawings of a
simple non - condensing steam engine for specific pur-
pose. The second term is given to designing a multiple
expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine
service. The text-book used is Whitham,'s Steam Engine
Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers. This subject is treated much as that
• of Course III. The determination of sizes of parts
from considerations of strains, thickness of shells, size
of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of con-
nection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces and life of
boiler, are some of the subjects considered. The method
of determining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface,
heights of chimneys, boiler settings and materials used
in construction are also discussed. Text-book, Steam
Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
153
Kinematics- This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementry combination and the constraining
of the parts to move in these paths. The general theory
is then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative
motion of machine parts and kinematic, trains, belts,
pulleys, speed cones, link work and other aggregate
combinations. Barr's Kinematics of Machinery is the
text-book used.
[Three hours recitation and two hours drawing a week
for one term.]
VI.
Machine Design. This, work involves a study of the
form and strength of machine parts as applied in design-
ing, with computation of dimensions for fastenings,
bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth, gearing, etc.
The derivation of rational formulae and the determination
of empirical formulae are included and applied in design-
ing. The text-books used are Unwins Elements of
Machine Design, Low's Handbook for Mechanical Engi-
neers and Reed's Machine Design and Drawing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Valye Gears. This course includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and loy are
treated in the same way, and in conclusion the student is
made familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text - book is
Halsey's Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term. ]
154
bulletin of ths
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory. The work taken up includes
a study of the methods of testing the steam engine
under varying running conditions, valve setting, cali-
bration of thermometers, gauges and indicator springs,
use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dynamometers,
Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc. Text-book,
Carpenter's Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term. ]
IX.
Hydraulics. The object of this course is to give such
information in regard to modern turbines and their
installation as is necessary to the hydraulic engineer in
designing a water power plant without going into the
details of turbine wheel designing. Text - book, Thurso's
Modern Turbine Practice. {Required of Seniors in
Mechanical and Electrical Engineering.
[Five hours a week for one term. ]
X.
Steam Engines and Boilers. A brief course in the
study of boilers and steam engines designed to famil-
iarize the student with the different types in use and
and their respective merits. Only that theory is taken up
which is necessary to the working out of practical prob-
lems, the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission^ by Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extending over
two terms, is given to a general descriptive study of all the
types of gas engines and explosive motors. The general
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
155
construction of gas, oil and vapor engines is studied
together with their adaptation to various uses. Results
due to change in ignition, compression and variation of
working fluid; methods of speed regulation and govern-
ment and the details of auxiliaries as, pumps, carburettors,
hot tubes, batteries, spark coils and dynamos are dwelt
upon. The text-book used is Gas, Oil and Vapor
Engines, by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms. ]
XII.	’
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the ther-
modynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-book,
lectures and drawing board. The major subjects taken
up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due to gas
pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine parts.
Lucke's Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours recitation and ten hours drawing
a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete working up.,
from rough castings and forgings of a small type of
gas engine. This is part of the thesis work for students
in the Short Program and requires the complete machin-
ing and assembling of the engine and must be preceded
by Courses XI. and XII.
[ Three hours a week for two terms. ]
XIV.
Gas Engine Laboratory. Indicator practice, commer-
cial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regulation.
Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction, car-
burettors and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed by
the student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
$
156	BULLETIN OB THE
Thesis. Bach, candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Bngineering must present for graduation a thesis of con-
siderable magnitude which will exhibit his knowledge of
the courses he has followed. It may embrace designing,
experimental investigation or original research in a’sub-
ject selected by the student and approved by the pro-
fessor. The major part of the second term, Senior year,
is devoted to this work, and graduation is conditional
upon the knowledge of mechanical engineering displayed
in its preparation.
MICROSCOPY
^1 *
Microscopy. Lectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion of light and illumination. The index
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for ad -
vanced work; immersion and adjustable objectives, camera -
lucida. sub - stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers, etc.
Special work in photo - micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
II
Micro - Chemistry. Laboratory work. The prepa-
ration of micro - chemical reagents and their application
in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and
mounting tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
MUSIC.
FIRST YEAR.
I.
Violin. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Biorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
uviyersity of notrf damb.	157
II.
Pianoforte* Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke and
Mozart. Jugend Album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
III.
Voice Production. Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breath - control. Articulation. Text-books, Shake-
speare Art of Singing, Part I.; Kofler Art of Breath-
ing; Studies by Bassini, English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Elementary Theory of Music.
Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
IV.
Organ. Rink Organ School. Eugene Thayer
Studies. Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR
I.
c
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
II.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,
Eecouppy, Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn,, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann, Schubert.
III.
Voice Production. Advanced breathing exercises.
Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke of the
glottis. Text-Books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing,
Parts IL and III.. Studies from Italian operas; Trench
and English songs.
BULLETIN OF THH
158
Vocal Sight Reading. Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IV.
Organ. Schneider-Warren Pedal Studies, Kasy sonatas,
by Mendelsshon, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes fugues
by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting. Canonic Studies
by Chadwick.
Harmony. Construction and use of chords. Harmoniz-
ation of melodies. Harmonizing from figured bass. Text-
books, Goetschius Tone Relations ; hogier’s Harmony,
THIRD YEAR
lb.
Violin. Sonatas by Bach Studies by Schradieck-
Alard, Wieniawski Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelsshon, Dvorak.
Hb.
Pianaforte. Gradus ad Parnassum, Clementi - Tausig.
Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and
French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Harberbier and
Henselt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven,
Weber, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
Hlb.
Voice Production. Study of trill, mordent, gruppetto,
etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb.
Organ. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome,
Whisting, Best, Rheinberger.
Harmony. Counterpoint. Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon,
fugue.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	159
FOURTH YEAR
Ic.
Violin* Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Bruch, Joachim and others.
He.
Pianoforte. Studies by Taussig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
IIIc.
Organ. The greater preludes, fantasies and fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Guilment and Saint-Saens.
IVc.
Harmony. Composition. Construction of musical’
forms, i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical applica-
tion in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on the viola, flute, piccolo,
cornet, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of play-
ing in the University Orchestra and the University Band.
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of musical students open only
to those taking lessons in vocal music ; the Choir and
the Glee Club are selected from the members of this
class.
i6o
BULLETIN OB THB
PHARMACY
I.
Elements of Pharmacy* Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various pharmaceutical processes. Text-book,
Remington1 s Practice of Pharmacy.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
11.
Galenical Pharmacy. A laboratory course to accom -
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the manu -
facture of official preparations of the United States
o
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. F. preparations.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy. Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
General Pharmacy. A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint, followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Magistral Pharmacy. Includes the manifold methods
of extemporaneous pharmacy with consideration of
incompatibility, posology, and the principles of elegant
pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	l6l
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry* Chiefly assaying, testing
and manufacturing. Determination of melting and
boiling points, and solubihties. Some attention is
given, also, to toilet and commercial preparations with a -
a view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
General Pharmacy* Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro - chemical, polariscopic and spectfo- .
scopic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of
manufacture.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Materia Medica. This work embraces a detailed
consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, thera-
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is given
also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin. They
are studied individually at first, then in classes or groups.
[ Three hours a week for three terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic* This work includes a
study of weights and measures, percentage, relation-
ship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alliga -
tion and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.
Pharmacognosy* The identification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with special
reference to quality and detection of adulteration,
ttd itb n is also given to the methods of preventing loss
162
bulletin oe the
by improper storage or by the ravages of insects.
Important drugs are studied under the microscope in
cross section and in powder form.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
PHILOSOPHY
I?
( « ) Physiological Psychology* This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of
consciousness.
(£) Experimental and Descriptive Psychology. The
primary laws of consciousness; psycho - physical methods
and results.
(^) Rational Psychology. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive. Lectures three
hours a week for two terms.]
(fl?) Laboratory Exercises. Experiments will be
conducted with special reference to their value as aids to
introspection. Sanford's Manual of Experimental
Psychology, FitcheneP s Experimental Psychology, Vol. I.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(«) Elements of Epistemology. A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teach -
ings of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume,
Kant and Spencer.
(This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and General
Metaphysics and will be given at the beginning of the year during
the time prescribed for these studies.
( b ) Logic. Hyslop's Elements of Logic.
[Two hours a week for two terms.] *
UNIVERSITY ON NOTRE DAME	I 63
(^) General Metaphysics. Transcendental concepts:
their value in different, systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(d) Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(<?) Theodicy. The existence of God; His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(/) Student Discussions. From time to time
throughout the year students will be required to read
and discuss papers on various subjects in the field of
philosophic inquiry.
III.
(«) Ethics. The theory of morals, with special
reference to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(£) Outlines of the History of Philosophy. Turner's
History of Philosophy.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.	.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work in
the department of philosophy, leading to the degree of
Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students who
have pursued the courses described above. Candidates
who have made undergraduate studies elsewhere must
give evidence of ability to begin specializing at once.
In the first and second years, research work will be con-
ducted in the seminar and the psychological laboratory.
In the last year, students will have the benefit of frequent
consultation with the professors.
164
BUIXETIN OB THB
PHYSICS
I.
(a) Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and mag-
netism are presented. The course is intended to meet
the needs of those who desire a general knowledge of
the subject, as well as to lay the foundations for
advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the cor -
rect statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[ Three hours a week for two terms.]
(V) The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which verify and apply prac -
tically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
’ handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the basis
for the grades in his work.
[Two hours each week for two terms.]
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to phys -
ical phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy in
the mathematical work and in the statements of the
principles involved. Lectures and recitations. Text-
book, Hastings and Beach.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
165
III.
Physical Problems* The application of mathematics-
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
time. Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity
and magnetism. ‘ The work is done in the laboratory and
the student is taught to depend on his own resources and
to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory* Special advanced work in heat,
light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism..
Accuracy in observations and in the calculation and
recording of the results is required. Students may
Specialize here according to the program which they are-
following. This course must be preceded by Courses II..
and III.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a) This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thorntori s Text-book of Human-
Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts and mani -
kins are at hand to facilitate all demonstrations required.
(Jf Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c) A limited number of microscopical preparations-
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.
i66
BUIXFTIN of ths
(W) During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Three recitations and one laboratory period for two terms.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections («)
and (W) and may select either (£) or (F).
II.
(«) This course comprises a complete study of
human physiology such as is required of students of
medicine. The lectures, recitations and demonstrations
are.based upon Kirke's Handbook of Physiology and Hall's
Text-book of Physiology. The student will have free
access to a copy of The American Text-book of Physi-
ology for special reference.
(b) Laboratory work in experimental physiology.
The manual used is Hall's Experimental Physiology, but
the student will have free access to a number of other
similar works.
[Four recitation hours and two laboratory periods
for two terms.]
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
I.
The Elements of Economics* A general survey of
the subject based upon the study and discussion of
Seager's Introduction to Economics.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Industrial History and the History of Economic
bought* Studies in the Evolution of Industrial Society
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	167
by Ely, and in a History of Political Economy by
Ingram.	'
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
(«) Money, Credit and Banking;, with special treat -
ment of the monetary experiences of the United States.
The text-book used is Money and Banking by White.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Public Finance. History of finance, expenditure,
revenue and debt of States, with special reference to
American experience, lectures and text.
[ Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Distribution. Rent, interest, wages, profits. Special
studies in land and labor problems and Socialism. The
text - book used is The Distribution of Wealth by Carver.
For readings Labor Problems by Adams and Sumner,
Progress and Poverty by George, Collectivism by Vander-
velde, Contemporary Socialism by Rae, and others.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLITICS
V.
The Elements of Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics, Lilly.
[Two hours a week for one term.] .
VI.
American Government and Politics. Text, Actual
Government, Hart.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Jurisprudence. A course covering (a) the outlines of the
Science of Raw. (b) The elements of International Raw.
i68
BULLETIN OB THE
(c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman and Canon Law..
Lectures, readings, and examinations on required texts,.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
SOCIOLOGY
VIII.
The Elements of Sociology. Text, Elements of Soci-
ology, Giddings.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Gt adnate W ork in Political Science. Advanced courses in
economics, politics and sociology are provided for graduate-
students who wish to receive the degree of Master or Doctor.
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of French, Spanish,.
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading-
knowledge of literary works written in these languages..
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal
special attention will be paid to philosophy.
FRENCH
*	I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec -
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular’
verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses; the essentials-
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Reading of three of the following works : La Tache du'.
Petit Pierre, Mairett Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La
Main Malheur euse, Guerber; Sans Famille, Malot; Read-
ings fron French History, Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	169
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Dictations and conversations on practical
topics, and careful reading of five of the follow-
ing works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche ; Roman
dun Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables Choisies, La
Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Molieie; Le Cid, Cor-
neille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubhees de Chateaubriand',
La Question d* Argent, Dumas; Standard French
Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study in this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes com -
position, conversation, history and general view of French
literature; besides a translation and criticism of the best
writers such as; Causeries du Lundi, Ste. Beuvc; On
Rend V Argent, Coppee; Hemani, Hugo; Meditations,
Lamartine; Athalie, Racine; L' Avare, Moliere; Mlle, de
la Seigliere, Sandeau; Les Origines de la France Con-
temporaine, Taine; Expedition de Bonapart en Egypte,
Thier; Ste. Elisabeth de Hongrie, Montalcmbert; Histoire
de la Litterature Frangai e. Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.— The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
SPANISH
. I.
General outlines of grammar with .composition.
Translation of easy tales from Triieba, Femon Caballero,
Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego, and
Iriate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
• BULLETIN OB THE
170
II.
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and nine -
teenth centuries, with composition and the history of the
literature of the period.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries :
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the lit-
erature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
ECarly Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the fifteenth century.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
ITALIAN
A two - years’ course. The chief work of the
courses is a critical study of Dante's Divina Commedia.
Readings from Tasso, Petrarca, Ariosto's Satires and
Manzoni.
PORTUGUESE
I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, Wall. Readings :
Perfil do marqnez de Pombal, Camillo Castello Branco;
Noveljas Historicas, Pinheiro Chagas; Lendas e narrativas,
Herculano ; Campo de flores, Joao de Deus..
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Sermoes, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Camoes.
History of Portuguese literature.
[Five hours a week for two terms.] '
6
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	171
6	,
OLD FRENCH
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying -
the formation of the French language from the popular
Latin. For this purpose a work like Bracked s Gram-
maire Historique will be studied. It is under this point
of view that Old French authors will be read, especially
La Chanson de Roland.
PROVENCAL
Language and literature, with reading from the works
of the Troubadours.
SHOP WORK
{a} Woodwork* Exercises in planing, splicing
framing, scroll sawing and. turning.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b) Applications of Carpentry to pattern making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
O) Foundry Practice* Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(d) Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
[Three hours a week for one term.] *
Bench work in iron, including surface chipping,
key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(/) Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shafting and
milling machines. Construction of machine tools, ream-
ers, taps, twist drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
172
bulletin of the
ZOOLOGY
I.	-
This course comprises:
(a)	Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Nicholson's Text-book of Zoology.
(f)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker's Elementary Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined in
Pratt's Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker's Biology.
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order, of
mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch's Elementary
Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for
first term; three recitation hours and three
laboratory periods for second term.]
II.
This course comprises-:
(<«) Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based
upon Hertmig's Manual of Zoology.
(b) Laboratory work upon some Invertebrata in
order to complete and supplement the work under (V) in
Course I.
Qc') Dissection and laboratory work upon one or two
types in each of the classes.of Vertebrata, viz : Fish, frog,
newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text - book used is
Pratt's Vertebrate Zoology.
Qd) A more extended study of mammalia with
reference to the cat as outlined in Davison's Mammalian
Anatomy.	•
An outline of comparative Embryology of ani-
mals. Text-books, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
«
i74
BULLETIN OE THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
ENGLISH AND MATHEMATICS.
Rev. MICHAEL MATTHIAS OSWALD, C. S. C.,
GREEK.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
• ENGEISH.
Rev. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.,
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE.
rev. GEORGE IOSEPH MARR, C, S. C.,
LATIN.
Bro. ALEXANDER, C. S. C.,
MATHEMATICS.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
PENMANSHIP.
t
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
BOOKKEEPING, phonography, typewriting.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	175
JOHN BAPTIST DELAUNAY, C. S. C.,
LATIN.
JAMBS FARNHAM EDWARDS, A. M., HL. B.,
HISTORY.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
MATHEMATICS.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
MATHEMATICS.
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B.,
CIVICS.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
GERMAN.
ALPHAEUS BRUCE REYNOLDS, A. B.,
ENGLISH.
* WILLIAM MAHONEY, A. B., LL. B.,
MATHEMATICS.
MICHAEL JOHN SHEA, A. M.,
ENGLISH AND HISTORY.
JOHN BAPTIST RENO, A. M., LL. B.,
ENGLISH AND LATIN.
*On leave of absence during the year 1906-07.
176
BULLETIN OF THE
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S.,
DRAWING.
GALLITZIN ALOYSIUS EARAB AUGH, A. B.,
ENGLISH AND HISTORY
CLARENCE JAMES KENNEDY, B. S.,
PHYSIOLOGY, ZOOLOGY, BOTANY.
EDWARD HERMANN SCHWAB, LL. M.,
COMMERCIAL LAW.
ARTHUR EUNK, b' S.,
CHEMISTRY AND PHYSICS.
DANIEL CORNELIUS DILLON, A. B.,
LATIN AND GREEK.
JOHN PATRICK O’SHEA, C. E.,
astronomy
ERANCIS XAVIER McGUANE, B. S.,
MATHEMATICS.
EREDERICK WILLIAM McKINLEY, A. B.,
'	MATHEMATICS.	.
THOMAS ALOYSIUS HEALY,
ENGLISH, GEOGRAPHY, HISTORY.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
177
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Preparatory
School under the same general government as the
■Colleges, but having its own special corps of instructors.
The schedules of studies are arranged to meet the need
of thorough preparation for collegiate work, and embrace
courses which, while giving as wide an education as can
be obtained in the very best High Schools, prepare
students directly for the group of studies they may elect
when entering the Freshman year. Five different
programs of instruction are offered to students, each
containing such special courses as directly meet the
needs of the fifteen college groups, while all embrace
common subjects which are indispensibly necessary in
acquiring a fairly liberal education. The period of
instruction covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Prepara-
tory School are most complete. The laboratories are
extensive and fully supplied with the latest improved
appliances. The classes pursuing any subject are divided
into sections, each containing a limited number of
students. The sections are purposely limited in order
that each student may receive close attention from the
instructor in every recitation and laboratory period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening of
the School in September and embrace the subjects com-
pleted in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pages 33 and 34. The following fees are
special to the Preparatory School;
LABORATORY FEES
Science C.—Elementary Botany..............$2.50
Science D.—Elementary Zoology............. 2.50
Science E.—Elementary Chemistry........... 5.00
Science F.— Elementary Physics............ 5.00
178
bullbtin of thb
. Studies Preparatory to the Department of Classics in the
College of Arts and Letters
FIRST YBAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
Latin	5	A	1 Latin	5	A
Bnglish	5	A	j Bnglish	5	A
History	4	A	History	4	A
Mathematics	5	A (	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B i	Science	5	D
		SBCONE	YBAR.		
Latin	5	B	Batin	5	B
Greek	5	A	Greek	5	A
Bnglish	5	B	Bnglish	5	B
History	4	B	History	4	B ~
Mathematics ,	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin	5	c	Latin	5	C
Greek	5	B	Greek	5	B
Bnglish	5	C	Bnglish	5	C
History	4	C	History	4	C
Mathematics	5	B	Science	5	C
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	. 2	A
FOURTH YBAR.
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
Bnglish German or	5	D	Bnglish German or	5	D
French	5	A	French	5	A
Science or	5	B	Science or	5	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
179*
Studies Preparatory for the Department of Letters and
♦ the Department of History and Economics
in the College of Arts and Letters
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
Latin	5	A •	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	4	A	History	4	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
		SECOND YEAR.			
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
French or			French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	4	B	History	4	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin	5	c	Latin	5	c
French or German	5	B	French or German	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	4	C	History	4	C
Mathematics	5	E	Science	5	C
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
French or German	4	C	French of German	4	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
German or French*	5	A	German or French	5	A
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
* Students who begin French A in the second year must begin German A nit
the fourth year.
180
bulletin op the
Studies Preparatory for the College of Science
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English	5 .	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History	4	A	History	4	A
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English	5	c	English	5	c
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	H
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	4	B	History	4	B
FOURTH YEAR.
English	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	E	Science	5	F
History	4	C	History	4	C
Drawing	3	A	Drawing '	3	B
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
181
Studies Preparatory for the Colleges of Engineering and
Architecture .
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	4	A	History	4	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
♦German	5	A	German	5	A
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History	4	B	History	4	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German 		5	B	German	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
History	4	C	History	4	C
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
German	4	C	German	4	C
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	G	Mathematics	5	H
Drawing	5	A	Drawing	5	B-
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
* French or Spanish may be substituted for German.
182
BUIXBTIN OB THB
PREPARATORY COURSES
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended to
give the student some knowledge of the general princi-
ples of government and of the American Constitution.
The subject begins by defining government; then is con-
sidered the object and necessity of government; origin of
civil society; the principle of suffrage; different forms
of government defined and compared; theories of repre-
sentation. These topics necessarily are treated briefly,
as the principal part of the course consists of a study of
the Colonial government, the Articles of Confederation
and their defects, the formation of the Constitution and
its adoption. The study further comprises a critical
analysis of each article and section of tke American
Constitution, thus enabling the student to acquire a clear
conception of the division of powers of the National
Government and the duties and responsibilities of each
department. Text-book, Government by State and
Nation, by James and Sanford.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
DRAWING
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	183
B.
Advanced wort in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which
afford the study of light and shade.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH
A.
(a) Meiklejohri s Art of Writing English, with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(£) The elements of versification. Scansion, one hour
a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Memory
work.
(f) Required reading: Robinson Crusoe, * Bvange-
line, Treasure Island, Snow-Bound, *The Sketch
Book, *The Vision of Sir Launfal, Poe's Tales, Poe's
Poems, * Julius Caesar, *Tlre Merchant of Venice.
(The works * marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
(A) Hill's Principles of Rhetoric, Part I., with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
{b} The simpler verse forms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(f) Required reading: Ivanhoe, *The Lady of the
Lake, *The Vicar of Wakefield, *The Ancient Mariner,
The Courtship of Miles Standish, * Silas Marner, *The
Princess, * Macbeth, *As You Like It.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
-others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
184
BULLETIN OF THE
c.
(a) Hili' 5 Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with, daily
exercises in class. Weekly theme first term ; fortnightly
essay second term.
(3) Verse forms continued. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(P) Required reading: * Sir Roger de Coverly, * Mac-
aulay's Assay on Addison, *The Golden Treasury of
Bnglish Lyrics, * Macaulay's Assay on Milton, * Miltori s
Minor Poems, *A Midsummer Night’s Dream, * Burke's
Speech, on the Conciliation of America, * Webster's
Bunker Hill Oration, "^Lincoln's Gettysburg Oration,
^King Rear.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
(<2) Genung's The Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part L, with daily exercises in class. Portnightly essay
first term; monthly essay second term.
(jf Verse forms concluded. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(f) Required reading: The House of the Seven
Gables, *The Idyll’s of the King, Selections from
Paradise Lost, Caryrs Dante, * Gates' Selection from
Newman, *The Dream of Gerontius, Pope's Homer,
*The Tempest, Aubrey de Vere's Poems, and
* Hamlet.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY- OF NOTRE DAME.
185
FRENCH
A.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs ; the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Frazer and Squair's Grammar. Reading three of the
following: La Tache dzc Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheureuse, Guerber;
Sans Famille, Malot; Supers' Readings from French
History.	‘	•
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B."
Advanced grammar and composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Frazer and Squair's Grammar.
Dictations and conversations are added on practical
topics, and careful translation made of five of the
following works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d'un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
choisies, La Fontaine; Le Mededn Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d' Argent, Dumas; Standard
French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.	'
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes com-
position, conversation, history and general view of
French literature. Besides a reading and criticism of
the best writers, such as: Causeries du Lundi, Ste.
i86
BUIXETIN OB THE
Beuve; On Rend V Argent, Coppee; Hemani; Hugo;
Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine; L'Avare,
Moliere; Mlle, de la SeigliHe, Sandeau; Les Origines de
la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedition de Bonaparte
en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie, Mon-
talembert; Historic de la Literature Frangaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.	'
GREEK
Grammar* Etymology, Goodell.
Lessons for Beginners? Morrison and Goodell.
Epitome of the New Testament? PartT., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar* Etymology reviewed and Syntax begun.
Goodell.
Xenophon* Anabasis, Four Books, Smith.
Composition* Based on the Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament? Part II., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar* Completed.
Xenophon. Selections from the Memorabilia.
Prose Composition*
Homer, Iliad, Six Books, Seymour.
Epitome of the New Testament? Part III., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRR DAM^.
187
GERMAN
A.
Grammar, Joynes Meissner, Part I. Translations from
German into English of simple prose; translation of
English exercises into German. Reading of short
stories and selections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar, Joynes-Meissner, Part II. Translation into
German of narrative prose and selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe-, Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
C.	'
Grammar, Joynes- Meissner, Part III. Sight reading
of plays, poems and prose writings. Translation of
selections from history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing-, Best known poems
Heine-, Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.	'
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
Ancient History* Meyers' Ancient History.
The Eastern Nations. The History of Greece and of the
Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The Estab-
lishment of the Empire, and the rise of Christianity.
The Roman - German, or Transition Age.
[ Pour hours a week for one year.]
i88
BUIXE'HN OF THF
B.
Medieval History. Meyers' Medieval History.
The Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mohammedanism
and the Saracen Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire. The
Age of Revival. The Empire and the Papacy. The Great
Schism and the rise of the Nations of Modern Europe.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
C.
Modern. History. Fisher's Outlines of History.
The Renaissance. The Age of Discovery. The Protes-
tant Reformation. The Power of Spain. The Strifes of
France with Spain and Germany. The Age of Louis
XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish and
Austrian Successions. The Empire of England. The
American Revolution. The French Revolution and the
Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the Spirit of
Nationality. The formation of Germany and Italy.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
LATIN
Grammar. Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises. Rudiments of Latin, Reynolds.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar. Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar. Books I.-IV.
Prose Composition. Based on Gzsar.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRR DAME-
189
Nepos. Selected lyives.
Sallust* Catiline.
Cicero* Orations I. -III., against Catiline.
Prose Composition. Based-on authors read.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar* Complete review.
Cicero. Three orations including Pro Lege Manilia.
Ovid* Metamorphoses.
Vergil. Aeneid, six books. The explanations cover
peculiarity of syntax, figures, mythology.
Prosody. Study of hexameter verse.
Prose Composition. Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
MATHEMATICS
A.
Algebra. This course for beginners in Algebra includes
a study of the primary fundamental principles necessary
to the courses which follow. The subjects dwelt upon
in particular are factoring, highest common factor
and least common multiple, which are afterwards
applied in their relation to Tractions and the reduction
of Complex Tractions. In as far as possible, concrete
examples of their applications to kindred scientific sub-
jects are applied by the teacher. Text-book Went-
^worthi s School Algebra.
[Tive hours a week for one term.]
B-
Algebra. In this course the study of equations is
begun and continued through equations of the first
190
BUI'IfETlN OF THF
degree, fractional equations, systems of simultane-
ous equations, involution, evolution, radicals and
exponents complete the course, which is supplemented
wherever possible with problems of practical application.
Text-book, Wentworth's School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Algebra. This course begins with quadratic equa-
tions, pure and affected, followed by systems of simul-
taneous quadratic equations and those forms of radical
equations of higher degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and proportion, indetermi-
nate equations, surds, imaginaries, inequalities, the
progressions and the binomial theorem finish the work
in this course. As in the preceding courses, special
stress is placed upon the application of the theory to*
such examples as will show its application to elementary
scientific subjects. Text book, Wentworth's College-
Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Geometry. This subject is completed as far as the
end of plane geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original proposi-
tions. The habit of independent thinking is cultivated
to some extent by the solution of special problems of
concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation of the
process studied to practical examples. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Geometry. The study of solid geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that of
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME. '	IQI
the preceding term. Planes, solid angles, polyhedrons,
the cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied in detail
and the solution of original exercises and propositions of
application is made a feature of the course. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
R
Algebra and Geometry. This course which con-
tinues through one scholastic year is designed especially
for those students who wish to take up the study of
Engineering. As this necessitates a thorough ground
work.in mathematics, the first half of the year is given
to a review of algebra and geometry, three hours and
two hours a week respectively. The most important
theorems and subjects are again studied and a more
comprehensive view of the subject is attained in the
generalizing of many theorems and extending the range
of others. Text-book, Benitz.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Algebra and Geometry. The work of this term
is entirely given up to an elementary exposition of the
application of mathematics to scientific problems and to
§
analysis. In lectures and class work actual problems
representing existing and practical conditions are
taken up, and the derivation of approximate formulae
and an elementary study of curves derived from experi-
ment are included. Text-book, Benitz.
[ Five hours a week for one term.]
Trigonometery. A half year is given to this subject
which includes both plane and spherical trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the-
elementary text-books. Special attention is given to>
192	BUI^BTIN of the
goniometry on account of its application to calculus,
and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly
supplied. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
SCIENCE	.
Physical Geography. An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. • The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the
■ world about him. The various types of plant and animal
life together with topographical and climatic conditions
will be considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology. Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of the
bones. . The action, relation, structure and hygiene of
muscles. The digestive, circulatory and excretory
systems demonstrated by models and charts. The
anatomy and structure of the nervous system and simple,
•experiments on the same. Text-book, Martiri s Human
.Body.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
.	'	' •’ • C. .	'
Botany. This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher -plants'
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and
seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant life
and their classification is also given. Text- book,
Bastins' Elements of Botany.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	"193
D.
Zoology* This course includes an introduction to
the_ subject with studies of representative forms and
their classification in the different groups of the animal
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
(a)	Chemistry*—An introductory course of experi-
mental lectures on familiar subjects such as water, the
air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundanmetal laws and phenomena of
chemistry.
■ [Three hours a week for one year.]
(b)	Experimental Chemistry. A laboratory course
to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises
• to be performed by each student, and having as their
main object the cultivation of the student’s powers of
observation and faculty of inductive reasoning. These
exercises comprise a study of the principal metallic ele-
ments, including their preparation, properties and more
familiar compounds. The directions for each experi-
ment are made as brief as possible; the observation of
facts and the drawing of correct conclusions therefrom
being left, so far as the nature of the experiment will
permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
Physics. Instruction in elementary physics is given
by lectures and recitations in which the general
laws of mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, elec-
194
bulletin of the
tricity and magnetism are presented. The course is
intended to meet the needs of those who desire a general
knowledge of the subject, as well as to lay the founda-
tions for advanced work. Particular attention is paid
to the correct statement of principles so that in his
advanced work the student will have nothing to unlearn
or relearn.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
Laboratory Work of this course consists of a
series of experiments which verify and apply practically
the fundamental principles of physics. The student
also receives instruction in the use and careful handling
of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct deduc-
tion of results. Neat and concise reports of all experi-
ments are kept by each student and form the basis for
the grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined
above are equivalent to those of a High School. There
is also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are
taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—the
students having every opportunity of preparing them-
selves as rapidly as possible for High School work.
$
Commercial School
196
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COMMERCIAL SCHOOL.
When the character and needs of the country are con-
sidered, courses in business will appear the most
practical, and among the most important that an educa-
tional institution can offer.
Students, therefore, who have not the time or the means
to take a complete college course in the classics or the
sciences, will do well to enroll themselves in the Com-
mercial School. No plan of study is more injudicious than
a haphazard selection of such studies as an inexperienced
young man may fancy. The training resulting from a
fixed program of studies is of the utmost benefit to the
student.
The commercial studies at Notre Dame have always
received the most careful attention from the officers and
from the Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims to give
the students of this School a more complete business
training than can be obtained in any purely commercial
school. The authorities require that students taking
this program—which may be completed in one year—
should be at least 16 years of age and should have com-
pleted two years' of a regular High School course or its
equivalent. Special arrangements, however, will be
made for young men who have had no High School
training, but who may have had practical business or
office experience. Should a student desire to pursue
any other studies in which he may be interested and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. A
diploma is issued to students completing all the courses
of the program satisfactorily.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME-
197
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION.
FIRST TERM.
I.
Arithmetic. Percentage; ratio and proportion; as .
far as involution and evolution. Normal Union Arith-
metic, Brooks, Recitations daily.
II.
Bookeeping. Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions ; initiatory sets by Double Bntry; retailing by
Double Bntry; special practice in writing business paper
and business forms. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams
and Rogers. Recitations daily.
III.
English. Study of the theory of English composi-
tion ; frequent exercises in theme writing. The princi-
ples of rhetoric. Recitations daily.
IV.
* Phonography. Recitations daily.
V.
Typewriting. Three hours a week.
VI.
Penmanship.	.
*Phonography is free t j commercial students in the final year of
their program. For typewriting fees see page 34.
198
bulletin of tub
SECOND TERM.
I.
Bookkeeping. Single Entry; changing Single to
Double Entry; retailing; wholesaling f shipping and
commission ; jobbing ; manufacturing; installment and
state agencies; joint stock companies; banking; rail-
roading. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and
Rogers. Four hours a week.
II.
Arithmetic. Percentage, ratio and proportion (re-
viewed ); involution and evolution; arithmetical and
geometrical series; higher percentage; mensuration;
arithmetical analysis. Higher Arithmetic} Brooks.
Recitations four hours a week.
III.
Business Practice and Office Work. Four hours a week.
IV.
Business Correspondence. One hour a week.
Commercial Law. General principles of contracts;
agency; partnership; corporations ; guaranty; sale of
goods; negotiable paper. Huff cut. Two hoursa week.
VI.
Phonography. Speed class. Recitations daily.
VII.
Typewriting. Speed class. Daily.
VIII.
Penmanship.

School for Minims*
*
200	bulletin of the
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS.
For the care and training of boys under the age of
thirteen years, there has been established a department
to which the most scrupulous attention has always been
paid by the authorities of the University—it is known as
the School for Minims.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Latin, French and German and Algebra. Vocal Music
and Drawing involve no extra charge. The pupils of
this department are taught by Sisters of Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day : Rising at 6:30
a. m., toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is
a short time given to exercise on the campus; eight,
study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes and study;
a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by
recreation; half-past one, classes and study ; three, re-
creation and luncheon; half-past four, classes and study ;
a quarter-past six, toilet; half-past six, supper and
recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may
be seen that while the Minims devote almost seven
hours a day to study, they are never more than two
hours in succession in the class-room. The recreation and
exercise in the fresh air after each period of study,
unbend the mind and prepare the boys to return to
their classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and the
study-hall. The presence, however, of the prefect is far
from being a restraint on the amusement of the boys;
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
201
for while it is the duty of the prefects to insist that their
young charges shall always keep within the limits of the
strictest propriety, they at the same time take part in
all sports, organize games, and do everything in their
power to foster the love for exercise. The playground
is a broad, level, eight-acre field, well supplied with turn-
ing poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all
other necessary gymnastic apparatus. That the boys
make good use of them can be seen from their healthy,
happy appearance, which invariably attracts the notice
of visitors. Connected with the playground is a brick
play-hall, one-hundred and sixty feet long and heated
by steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold
weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend
the clothing; see to all the needs and to the comfort and
convenience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few
days. Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care
is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the
clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES,
There are two societies in the Minim Department, that
of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for
its object to supply servers for the Church services, and
the Sorin Association, which has been established with a
view to give the pupils a start, as early as possible, in
elocution. The society is presided over by one of the
professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are
held once a week, after school hours. These meetings
are a source of pleasure as well as of profit. The mem-
bers prepare original compositions, deliver declamations,
are trained to debate, etc. Only the best behaved and
more advanced in studies are admitted to membership.
202
BULLETIN OF THE
To encourage this young literary society, a gold medal
for elocution is annually awarded at Commencement to
the most deserving member.
GENERAL REMARKS,
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to students more
advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to pun-
ishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern by kind-
ness and gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense
of honor. The names of all whose conduct and applica-
tion to studies are satisfactory appear on the Roll of
Honor and on the Roll of Class Honors. To find his name
mentioned in these rolls, is found to be as great a reward
for the deserving pupil, as its non-appearance is a pun-
ishment for the undeserving.
Then, too, there are gold medals awarded at the end
of two full years to those whose deportment has been
unexceptionable during that period. As this fact is
made known to the Minim immediately after his entrance,
he generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view
to receiving an Honor. The greatest cafe is taken
to form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort
is made to foster respect and affection for parents, to
whom they are expected to write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims
is their complete separation from the older students. A
commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall,
affording ample accommodations for over one hundred
pupils, is devoted to their use. It is four stories in
height, one hundred and fifty feet long, and forty-five
feet wide, heated by steam, supplied throughout with
the Edison incandescent electric light, and provided with
hot and cold water. The ceiling in the study-hall, class-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
203
rooms and sleeping apartments is fifteen feet high. The
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant
light and ventilation. The study-hall commands a
charming view from each of its eleven large windows.
It is tastefully decorated with statuary, pictures, plants,
etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims derive from study-
ing in this bright, cheerful hall, their tastes are cultured
by coming into contact with objects so refining. Front-
ing the building is a handsome park, which, with its
fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not a little to the
beauty of St. Bd ward’s Hall, as well as to the happiness
of its pupils.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy par-
ents and others who frequently write for more detailed
information, will show that, while the Minims have
every advantage to aid them in acquiring a foundation
for future study, they have a home, ’where they enjoy
the same ease and freedom that they would enjoy under
the care of their mothers. For further information
regarding the School for Minims apply for a special
catalogue.
EXPENSES,
(For Students tinder Thirteen Years of Age.)
Matriculation Fee (first year only).........$	10.00 •
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bed-
ding, etc., per session of nearly ten months... 250.00
Payable in advance as follows:
First Payment,—On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee...........................$	10.00
Board and Tuition........................... 150.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account.......	5.00
Gymnasium...................................   2.50
Lecture and Concert CourseTicket............. 1 00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second Payment,—On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition.................$100	00
204	BULLETIN OF THE
The charge per session of ten months for Piano lessons,
and the use of instrument in this department is $35 ; for
Violin, Guitar or Mandolin, $20.
Pupils who remain during the two summer Vacation
months are charged $40.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been
rendered.
Bach pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of
underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pairs of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits of
clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap, and
a hand mirror. This direction concerning clothiug is a
suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above supplies
can be procured through the Students’ Office at the
University.
List of Students
206
bulletin of the
LIST OF STUDENTS.
Matriculating during the Scholastic Year from
September 1906 to June 1907.
Anderson, Robert Emmett	Ohio
Ansoatigui, Santiago	Porto Rico
Arnold, Arthur	Illinois
Ayala, Joachim	Mexico
Ayala, Anthony	Mexico
Anderson, Clarence	Indiana
Aligada, Orencio	Philippine Islands
Allen, Walter Hopkins	Illinois
Arvey, Edmund James	Wisconsin
Asquith, Robert Lorimer	Illinois
Arnold, William Simpson	Massachusetts
Abell, Harry Alexander	Wisconsin
Aranowski, Casimir John	Indiana
Agnew, John James	Iowa
Aman, Francis George	Indiana
Anthony, Aloysius Francis	Ohio
Amadeus, B.	-	Indiana
Brennan, Raymond	New York
Baca, Horace de	Colorado
Baca, Alfred de	Colorado
Bensberg, William	Missouri
Bensberg, Carl	Missouri
Burns, Robert Homer	Wyoming
Bower, Julius	Illinois
Berkowitz, Walter Roy	Illinois
Burtt, Norton Fidelis	Illinois
Burtt, Millard Norton	Illinois
Buczkowski, John Stanislaus	Indiana
Berve, Benjamin Louis	Illinois
Brickey, Arthur Gideon	Arkansas
Brennan, James Louis	Illinois
Brennan, Michael William	Illinois
Baggott, Edward Bernard	Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	207	
Bailey, Guy Gibson	Michigan
Bolin, Henry Joseph	W yoming
Broussard, Clyde Eloi	Texas
Bentley, Walter	Illinois
Berry, Spire Bernard	Indian Territory
Berkley, Carroll Allan	Missouri
Broad, Mark Charles	Illinois'
Bickel, Ernest	Indiana
Brogan, John Francis	Oregon
Bucher, Edmund Victor	Indiana.
Beeson, Paul Ollen	Michigarf
Bogy, Bernard Pratt	Missouri
Barsaloux, Paul Keeley	Illinois^
Boyle, Hugh James	Wisconsin
Berteling, John Francis	Indiana
Berteling, Charles Neil	Indiana
Benz, Othmar John	Pennsylvania
Benz, John Joseph	Pennsylvania
Burke, Edmund John	Wisconsin
Binz, Frank	Illinois
Bach, James Henry	Minnesota
Babbitt, Bertrand Harry	Arizona
Babbitt, Edwin David	Arizona
Burdick, Henry Anthony	Ohio
Bannon, John Mackin	Pennsylvania
Bannon, Bernard Anthony	Pennsylvania
Beacom, Patrick Ambrose	Iowa
Bracken, Robert Louis	Illinois
Berrigan, Edmund	New York
Burke, Cornelius James	Indiana
Brinkman, Clemens Ulrich	Illinois
Boulton, John Allan	Ohio
Barnett, Earl Edgar	Indiana
Berthold, Louis Ralph	Illinois
Beckmann, Raphael	Mexico
Bonham, Edwin Douglas	New York
Berriman, Charles	New York
Bachnak, Joseph Edward	Pennsylvania
B aradat, Henry Andrew	Cuba
Burke, Paul Thomas	Indiana
Brown, Michael Joseph	Pennsylvania
Browne, Robert Benson	Pennsylvania
208
bulletin ok the
Bryson, George Devereux
Bryson, Ralph. Oxley
Batlle, Joachim Louis
Barron, Leo
Byrns, William Nor th cot
Brooks, Howard Joseph
Beebe, Roy John
Benn, Harry Henry
Berkley, Frederick Jones
Barrenquy, Peter
Berg, Francis Roy
Berg, John Bbbe
Buenger, George Anthony
Butler, John Patrick
Biter, Francis Bdward
Brandell, Albert Vincent
Burke, William Joseph
Burke, Bdmund Joseph
Burke, Thomas Bdmund
Burns, Bdward Clark
Boyle, Joseph John
Bolger, William Augustine
Barry, Richard
Burns, John Lawrence
Balensiefer, Harold Francis
Biro, Joseph
Brown, Andrew
Brady, James Patrick
Cartwright, Marcus
Cowles, Charles Bzra
Caparo, Angel
Caceres, Frederick
Concha, Francis Manuel
Cooley, Willard
Comerford, George Louis
Comerford, John Martin
Comerford, Dean William
Castanos, Joseph Mary
Callahan, Thomas Wood
Corrigan, John Bdward
Collins, William Alphonsus
Illinois
Illinois
Spain
Illinois
Michigan
District of Columbia
•	Indiana
Iowa
Missouri
Mexico
Iowa
' Iowa
Ohio
Indiana
Pennsylvania
Michigan
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
New York
Iowa
Michigan
Illinois
Missouri
Montana
Austria
Michigan
Illinois
Tennessee
Michigan
Peru, South America
Peru, South America
Peru, South America
Michigan
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
■	Mexico
Indiana
Illinois
Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
209
Crepeau, Elton Benjamin	Indiana
Corrigan, Bartholomew Harrington	Mexico
Cajulis, Felix	Philippine Islands
Carrico, Wiliam Elbert	Kentucky
Cotter, William Edward	Illinois
Carroll, Homer Peter	Ohio
Condon, Frank Eeser	Michigan
Connolly, William Francis	Iowa
Coffey, Raymond Thomas	Iowa
Costello, Walter Edward	Indiana
Cagney, Harry Louis	Illinois
Calderon, Joseph	Mexico
Curran, Guss Philpot	Pennsylvania
Crawford, Charles Henry	Ohio
Coppinger, Lucian Biggins	Illinois
Cartier, Antoine Edward	Michigan
Corcuera, Xavier Loizaga	Mexico
Carter, Lawrence Joseph	Illinois
Curren, William Julius.	New Mexico
Cabrera, Joseph Francis	Philippine Islands
Corcoran, William Joseph	Missouri
Carville, Edward Peter	Nevada
Corbett, John Kiley	Indiana
Cody, Arthur Houston	Illinois
Coryell. Perry Commodore	Colorado
Cressey, Sidney Alexander	Indiana
Connolly, Edward Joseph	Illinois
Connolly, Raymond Joseph	Illinois
Cassinelli, Alfred Arthur	Illinois
Callicrate, Dominic Leo	Indiana
Cahill, James Lee	Illinois
Centlivre, Carl Louis	Indiana
Condon, John Joseph	Illinois
Cullinan, Edward Joseph	Pennsylvania
Canedo, Henry Otto	Mexico
Cooke, Arthur John	New York
Coontz, John Leo	Missouri
Corcuera, John Loizaga	Mexico
Clohessey, William James	Pennsylvania
Curtis, Harry Albert	Massachusetts
Coggeshall, John	Kentucky
Christian, Leo Gregory	Missouri
210
bulletin of the
Cripe, Clarence Cyril	Indians
Cain, Leo William	Illinois.
Cleary, Leo John	Illinois.
Cabot, Francis John	Missouri
Clune, Daniel Curran	Indiana
Coad, Marcus Matthew	Nebraska
Corbett, James Joseph	Illinois
Cannon, Dominic Joseph	.Pennsylvania
Carolin, Ralph Hugh	Michigan
Corcoran, Wendell Phillips	Illinois-
Cunningham, William Francis	Illinois-
Crawford, Peter Michael	New York
Carroll, Frederick William	Illinois-
Collentine, Richard Joseph	Wisconsin
Coyne, Martin John	Pennsylvania
Conway, Daniel David	New York
Conlin, Leo James	Minnesota
Carr, Harry William	Illinois-
Curran, Clarence	Michigan
Cleary, Edward Patrick	Illinois-
Cull, Francis Xavier	Ohio
Collier, Francis Thomas	Quebec, Canada
Cunningham, James Vincent	Illinois
Cornelius, B.	Indiana
Cheviron, Thomas Joseph	Indiana
Cahill, Edward Joseph	Indiana
Carroll, Hugh	Indiana
Carroll, William Manson	Ohio
Connolly, Martin Francis	Illinois
Duarte, Adolph Manuel	Colombia,	South America
Dolan, Franklin Thomas	Massachusetts
Donavan, Thomas Francis	Illinois
Drew, Charles Barrymore	Illinois
Diaz, Angel Llano	Cuba
Daugherty, Raymond Martin	Iowa
Dillon, Lee Summerville	Colorado
Dillon, Malcolm White	Colorado
Degnan, Walter John	Ohio
Dodge, George Washington	New York
Duque, Charles Alphonsus Peru, South America
Dolan, Thomas Aloysius	Missouri
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
2IU
Dolan, William Thomas	Missouri
Donnolly, Ambrose Brady	Michigan
Dillon, Daniel Cornelius	Pennsylvania
Dolan, Samuel Michael	Oregon
Dwan, Joseph Aloysius	Illinois
Duncan, Walter James	Illinois
Davison, Franklin McIntosh	Illinois-
Dirks, John Frederick	Colorado-
Dee, William Thomas	Illinois.
Draper, William Aloysius	Illinois
Drumm, Arthur George	Pennsylvania'
Davis, Howard Clifton	Illinois
Deal, George	Indiana-
Donovan, Rupert Donnelly	Illinois
Darst, William James	Illinois-
Depew, Pamphile Cyril	Michigan
Derrick, Francis	Pennsylvania-
Donahue, William Matthew	Indiana*
Downing, William Poyntelle	Illinois
Donovan, William James	South Dakota;
Drummond, William Clyde	Illinois
Devine, Leo Clement	Ohio-
Diskin, Michael Angelo -	Pennsylvania-
Dean, John Richmond	Illinois
Daly, Albert Maxwell	Indiana-
Dubuc, John Arthur	Connecticut
Ditton, James Hawkins	Indiana-
Daly, James William	New York
D’Landero, Peter Anthony	Mexico
Dougherty, Daniel Benedict	Pennsylvania-
Decker, Marshall Joseph	Illinois
Dunbar, Thomas Kennedy	Illinois-
Dant, Ralph Francis	District of Columbia-
Delehanty, Thomas Michael	Kentucky
Donavan, Daniel Mathew	New York
Donovan, Cornelius James	Massachusetts,
Donahue, Wesley James	Illinois
Donahue, Joseph Aloysius	Indiana*
Devers, John Aloysius	Pennsylvania
Devine, James	. Wisconsin
Diener, John Vernon	Wisconsin
Doyle, Nicholas Murray	Ontario, Canada
.212
BULLETIN OF THE
Dorr, Frank Eugene
Duffy, John Francis
Doyle, Bernard Ephraim
Dunn, Edward Stanislaus
Dillon, Francis Joseph
Espinal, Anthony Marino
Evans, Richard Jarrett
.Evans, Wallis Johnson
Estrada, Raphael
Eberhart, Ralph John
Escher, Edward Paul
Eggeman, Frederick William
Ernest, B.
jFernandez, Joseph Elias
Fritch, Louis
/Fritch, Emil
Falomir, Francis Andrew
Fagula, Francis Andrew
Foley, Edward Matthew
Freel, Lawrence Raymond
■Flaherty, James Joseph .
Fournier, Arthur Martin
Follett, Judson George
Fox, John McDill
Frauenheim, Edward Edmund
Fordyce, John Martin
Farabaugh, Gallitzin Aloysius
Fox, Oscar Alexander
Foley, Thomas Francis .
Frawley, Henry James
Frawley, William Gardner
Feig, Ralph Samuel
Ford, Alfred Timmonds
Flinn, John Earl
Farragher, John
Farrell, Francis Thomas
Freyermuth, John Warren
Finnegan, Thomas Harold
Fish, Aubrey Aaron
Ferrell, Muss Smickler
Ohio
Wisconsin
Illinois
Delaware
Pennsylvania
Cuba
Illinois
Illinois
Pennsylvania
Illinois
Pennsylvania
Indiana
Indiana
Mexico
Illinois
Illinois
Pennsylvania
Pennsylvania
Minnesota
Indiana
Illinois
Michigan
Iowa
Wisconsin
Pennsylvania
Wisconsin
Pennsylvania
Indiana
Colorado
South Dakota
South Dakota
Indiana *
Illinois
Indiana
Ohio
Illinois
Indiana
Illinois
Illinois
West Virginia
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21$
/ Ferrell, Taylor . Ferrell, Morris Denting Ferrell, Louis Tiffany Furniss, Thomas James Fitzpatrick, William Joseph t Fanelli, Salvatore Paul /Foik, Paul Joseph Flynn, Charles Joseph Flannigan, John Charles Finnigan, George Joseph Foley, James Timothy Funk, Elmo Ambrose	West Virginia West Virginia West Virginia Wisconsin •	Indiana Kentucky Ontario, Canada Massachusetts Pennsylvania New York New Jersey Indiana
Gonzalez, Joseph Louis Gering, Charles Andrew Gumbiner, Milton Geyer, Eben Calvin Gray, Neil Gray, Reid Berry Gorman, Patrick Albert Gushurst, Albert Francis Garvey, Harry Valentine Grande, Raphael Francis Gusching, Walter Joseph Guerra, Arthur Louis Geary, Arthur Michael Garrity, Leo Francis Graham, Stewart Garcia, Manuel Lopez Garcia, Lorenzo Charles Gira, Bernard Augustine Gavagan, Francis James Gaffney, William Andrew Gowrie, William Arthur Gallart, Joseph Porfirio Gallart, John Baptist Galligan, William Patrick Grove, William Hammer Gutierrez, Michael Joseph Gibson, Gratton Newby Griffith, John Stevenson Griffin Peter Michael	Peru, South America Illinois Illinois Michigan: Ohio Ohio Texas South Dakota? Illinois Mexico Indiana Mexico' Pennsylvania? Illinois Illinois New Mexico' New Mexico1 South Dakota Colorado' New York Cuba Cuba Cuba Arkansas Illinois Peru, South America* Illinois Indiana- New York.
1214
bulletin of the
Gatz, Paul Harold
Gatz, Jira Ignatius
Goggin, James Aidan
Gassensmith, Frederick Michael
Gillespie, Arthur Francis
Gaynor, Thomas Patrick
Gannon, William Joseph
Hurley, Thomas Francis
Hannah, Charles
Hunt, Randolph
Hirschfield, Casey Young
Hague, Harry George
Hundley, Victor Alden
Hayes, Robert Magnor
Hinde, Joseph James
Harmon, Myron Lafayette
Holmes, Ernest Samuel
Hutchins, William Ambrose
Hervey, Arthur
Hipskind, Samuel Sylvester
Harris, Donald Herbert
Hanan, John Frank .
Henning, Arthur Aloysius
Hayden, William Basil
Hypolito, Segundo George
Hamerski, Leo Dominic
Hilton, Hoyt Watson
Hilton, Albertus Allen
Holladay, Hiram Newton
Haynie, Samuel Carrick
Harrington, Raymond Regan
Heyl, Martin John
Hazinski, Alexander Stanislaus
Hogue, Raymond Aloysius
Heyl, Willliam John
Hamilton, Miller
Herr, Stephen Henry
Hutzell, Oscar Daniel
Hutzell, Ellsworth Franklin
Hickey, George William
Hollearn, Francis Joseph
Illinois
Illinois
Michigan
Illinois
Iowa
Ireland
Ireland
New York
* Illinois
Illinois
Indiana
Illinois
Illinois
Missouri
Ohio
Illinois
Wyoming
Ohio
Indiana
Indiana
Indiana
Indiana
Missouri
Wisconsin
Philippine Islands
Minnesota
Washington
Washington
Missouri
Missouri
Illinois
Pennsylvania
Indiana
Illinois
Pennsylvania
Indiana
Illinois
Indiana
Indiana
Illinois
Illinois
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
215
Haney, Charles Edward	Indiana
'Howard, Austin Theodore	Illinois
Hogan, Leo James	Pennsylvania
Hentges, Leonard	Iowa
Heilman, Arthur George	Wisconsin
Higgins, Harry Clarence	Illinois
Herron, Harold Burton	Ohio
Hanrahan, Francis Joseph	Illinois
Hosinski, John Stanislaus	Indiana
^Haggerty, Patrick Joseph	Pennsylvania
Hentges, Oscar Raphael	Indiana
Hebert, Peter Edward	Michigan
Herath, Frederick Louis	Illinois
Hannon, Leo Joseph	New York
Harber, Charles Sylvester	Indiana
Hannigan, John Joseph	Michigan
Reiser, Allan Joseph	Indiana
Louisiana
Sr win, William Joseph
Joyce, Anthony Thomas	Pennsylvania
Johnson, Charles Hermann	South Dakota
Johnson, Robert	Missouri
Jordan, James Dominic	Pennsylvania
Joyce, Walter LeRoy	Wisconsin
Jacobs, Bernard	Illinois
Juraschek, Max John	■ Texas
Janecki, Frank	Illinois
Janecki, Stephen	Illinois
'Kennedy, Edward Michael	Pennsylvania
Kennedy, John Joseph	Pennsylvania
Keenan, Edmund Meyers	South Dakota
Klarkowski, Stanislaus Harry	Illinois
Kessler, Glenn William	Indiana
Kelly, Maxey John	New York
Kavanaugh, John Raymond	Illinois
Keefe, Daniel Joseph	Michigan
Keefe, Edward Joseph	Michigan
Keefe, Francis Thomas	Michigan
Kamm, Adolph Xavier	Indiana
Kruzewski, Leo Hilary	Indiana
i
216
BULLETIN OF THE
Knisely, Richard William Knight, Edgar Leon Knauf, Arthur Raymond Keach, Leroy Joseph Kryl, John Francis Kryl, Joseph Michael Krost, Gerard Nicholas Kasper, William Henry Kasper, Simeon Michael Katz, Harold Sidney Katz, Clarence Walter Kenefick, James Paul Kenefick, Matthew John Kennedy, Alexander John Kanaley, John Bernard Kelly, Charles Hugh Kelly, Clarence Joseph Keefe, James Thomas Kenny, Edward Joseph Kasper, Robert Adam Kinney, John Edward Knowzer, George Koepping, Otto Henry Kehoe, James Patrick Kelley. John Charles -^Kelley, Louis McMahon Kelly, Joseph Edward Kreutzer, John Baptist Kosterman, Hermann Anthony Kane, Albert Charles Kirby, William Vincent Klan, Theophilus	Illinois Michigan Wisconsin Indiana Illinois Illinois Indiana Illinois Illinois Illinois Illinois Indiana Indiana Michigan New York Minnesota Illinois Iowa Pennsylvania Illinois Ohio* Indiana Illinois Wisconsin. Indiana Indiana Ohio. Indiana Wisconsin Pennsylvania Ohio* Pennsylvania
Lunden, Charles de Little, Josiah Lowrey, Grover Kimball Lucas, Philip Horne Lynch, John Joseph Livingston, Lester Meyer Louisell, Clifton Lenertz, John Arthur Lamb, Rex Edward	Belgium Illinois Florida Indiana Illinois Indiana Alabama Oklahoma Michigan
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
217
s Lange, Bernard Hermann Leslie, Woody Higgins Lantry, Joseph Thomas Lee, Julius Joseph Laredo, Emilio Lannan, Dennis Edmund Lackmann, Marcus Lopez, Joseph Trinidad Xennertz, William Peter Lawrence, Clarence Anthony Ledwidge, Harry Aloysius Luzny, Francis Xavier	Pennsylvania Illinois Kansas Colorado Cuba Illinois Illinois Mexico Ohio Indiana Pennsylvania Indiana
Molina, Alexander Edward Madarasz, Jesse Milius, George Morse, Charles Hosmer Morse, Robert Hosmer Moran, Leo Celestine Markey, Edward James Markey, Paul Martin, Winfred Moralles, Alfred Murphy, Charles William Mason, George Francis Muehlebach, Henry John Martin, Joseph Andrew Mangan, Louis Aloysius Manuel, Gregory Leocadio Metcalf, Albert Lorenzo Morrison, Dennis Augustus Moritz, Adolphus John Main, Francis Joseph Mann, Milton Charles Martin, Paul Royal Mose, Richard Paul Millea, Glendon Thomas Murphy, Raymond Michael Matthews, Guy Lewis Murphy, Paul James Madden, Francis Leo Maguire, Thomas Oswald	Peru, South America Colorado New York Illinois Illinois Illinois Indiana Indiana Illinois Mexico Indiana Illinois Missouri Indiana North Dakota Philippine Islands Wisconsin Iowa Michigan Iowa Illinois Indiana Indiana Indiana Ohio Illinois Alabama Michigan Illinois
218
*
BULLETIN of the
Moriarty, Michael Lee	Ohio
Martel, George Wendell	Illinois
Maurer, Ralph August	Indiana
Murphy, Edward Louis	Minnesota
Moynahan Emmett Aloysius	Illinois
Maroney, Joseph John	Indiana
Malloy, Patrick Mervan	Iowa
Munson, Francis Elmer	Illinois
Murray, Charles Donnelly	Colorado
May, Henry Francis	Rhode Island
Murphy, John Perry	Indiana
Miles, Warren Cooper	Nebraska
Murphy, John William	Kentucky
Maxwell, Lucian	Illinois
Moran, George Edward	Illinois
Macias, Ernest	Mexico
Murphy, William Patrick	Illinois
Marr, Charles Bennett	Illinois
Molloy, Adrian Stafford	New York
Morancy, Francis Emile	Kentucky
Mohn, Burkhardt William	Indiana
Macias, Francis	Mexico
Mills, Frederick Leon	Illinois
Meenach, Harry William	Washington
Miller, Martin Harold	Ohio
Mann, Ballard	Illinois
Mueller, Adolph Stephen	Colorado
May, Clarence William	Ohio
Mertes, Albert Thomas	Indiana
Machalinski, Aloysius	Pennsylvania
Maher, Francis Thomas	Indiana
Mack, Henry Paul	Ohio
Maloney, John Thomas	Illinois
Margraf, John	Germany
Moore, John Edward	Illinois
Molony, William Francis	Indiana
Minnick, William Francis	New York
Miltner, John	Michigan
Mulloy, Bernard Benedict	Illinois
Mathis, Michael Ambrose	Indiana
Mannion, Thomas Leo	Ontario, Canada
Misch, Edgar John	Ohio
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.
219
Miller, Paul Joseph
Michigan
Milanowski, Stanislaus Francis	Illinois
McGuinness, Michael Joseph	New Mexico
McDonald, David	Illinois
McNair, John	Missouri
McGurty, Francis Joseph	Illinois
McCormack, Maurice Abney	s	Illinois
McBride, Walter	New York
McBride, Lousius	New York
McCafferty, James Pancratius	Washington
McNamee, Ignatius Edward	Oregon
McMorran, William Edward	Illinois
McNeely, Arthur Francis	Missouri
McKinnie, Gerald Fleming	Pennsylvania
McDonald, Kenneth Breen	Indiana
McDonald, Patrick Donnelly	Indiana
McPartlin, Leslie John	'	Wisconsin
McPartlin, Leland Charles	Wisconsin
McAleenan, Frederick Joseph	Illinois
McAleenan, Howard William	Illinois
McDonald, Lawrence	Illinois
McCarty, Franklin Bennett	■ Massachusetts
McGreevy, James John	Indiana
McKenna, Coe "Aloysius	Oregon
McKinley, Frederick William	Iowa
McElroy, Leo Cyril	Connecticut
McCarthy, Hiram George	Michigan
McGannon, Thomas Paul	New York
McDonough, Harry Francis	Illinois
McMann, George, William	Illinois
McGuire, Alfred James	Michigan
McIntyre, Palmer	Illinois
McCarthy, Jeremiah Anthony	Indiana
McNally, Raymond Aloysius	Ohio
McIver, Francis Fergus	New York
McBride, Edmond Leo	Pennsylvania
McNulty, John Francis	Missouri
McGinty, George Thomas	Ohio
McKindley, Daniel Edward	Indiana
McNamara, Adrian Alexander	New York
McGath, Charles Ellsworth	Indiana

220
BULLETIN of the
McElreavy, Leslie Anthony	Colorado
McKee, John	Illinois
McNally, Forrest Janies	Indiana
McMahon, John Francis	South Dakota
McCawley, Francis Holloway	Kentucky
McQuaid, William Bernard	Indiana
McKlhone, James Francis	Pennsylvania
McFaul, Arthur	Michigan
McDonald, Angus	Michigan
Newton, Ralph William	Illinois
Noud, Reuben Patrick	Michigan
Norris, Leo Michael	Michigan
Nieto, Francis George	Mexico
Niedbalski, Stanislaus Wladislaus	Indiana
Nolan, Thomas Francis	New Jersey
Nemanich, John Edward	Illinois
Orozco, Pascual	Mexico
O’Connell, Ambrose Aloysius	Iowa
O’Brien, John	Illinois
O’Reilly, Francis Warren	Illinois
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph	Illinois
Owen, Ralph Henry	Indiana
Otero, Miguel Anthony	New Mexico
O’Brien, Sylvester Leo	Illinois
0’Dwyer, Robert Edward	Illinois
O’Brien, Francis Anthony	Illinois
O’Brien, Simon Anthony	New York
0’Flynn, Edward Francis	Montana
0’Byrne, Louis Fallon	Alabama
O’Connell, Thomas Berry	Illinois
Ohmer, Henry Beckman	Ohio
Ohmer, Robert Fasold	Ohio
Oelerich, Joseph Frederick	Illinois
Olston, Francis Michael	West Virginia
O’Leary, James	Illinois
Orozco, Pantaleon	Mexico
O’Brien, Clarence Burke	Minnesota
O’Connor, Jeremiah Francis	Indiana
Ogus, Edward Isidore	Illinois
0’Dwyer, Dennis Patrick	Ireland
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
221
O’Brien, Janies Joseph	Michigan
Ortiz, Manuel Isidore	Porto Rico
O’Brien, Edward Thomas	New York
Olding, Herman H.	Kentucky
O’Shea, Dennis Aloysius	Illinois
Orminski, John Charles	Illinois
Portilia, Angel Manuel	Cuba
Prada, Jose Vazquez	Mexico
Probst, Rudolph Otto	Indiana
Padilla, Constantine	Mexico
Ponce, Alphonsus Enrile	Philippine Islands
Parrish, Varnum Augustine	Illinois
Phillips, Thomas Wright	California
Peil, Edward Fyans	Wisconsin
Powers, Frederick William	Illinois
Pike, Ray Johnson	West Virginia
Paine, Robert Edward	Texas
Pardridge, Edward Clinton	Illinois
Perce, William Edward	Illinois
Perez, John Porfirio	Cuba
Perez, Ignatius Robustiano	Cuba
Portilia, Jesse Edward	Mexico
Pope, John Doyle	New York
Popp, Thomas Joseph	Pennsylvania
Papin, Henry Louis	Ohio
Quinn, Walter Leo	South Dakota
Quirino, Ernest Rivera	Philippine Islands
Quealy, Jay Ambrose	Wyoming
Quevedo, Manuel Garcia	Mexico
Quintanilla, Ignatius	Mexico
Quinlan, James Joseph	Illinois
Rice, William Henry	Pennsylvania
Rider, Elroy	Indiana
Rangel, Manuel	Mexico
Romana, Albert Lopez	Peru, South America
Romana, John Lopez	Peru, South America
Radel, Edward Hermann	New Jersey
Roth, Jesse Henry	Indiana
Rothinghouse, Ernest	Indiana
222
BULLETIN OF THE
Roe, Benjamin
Roe, Maurice
Rubio, Ramon Garcia
Rubio, Marcellinus Garcia
Richards, Marmet Austin
Rafferty, Harry Thomas
Rosenberger, Anthony Albert
Rice, Wilfred Washington
Roach, John William
Ryan, William Bernard
Rowlands, Carl Koller
Rempe, -Lester William
Rempe, George Aloysius
Rempe, Harold Raymond
Roberts, Thomas Brownfield
Roberts, Godfrey Meyer
Ribeyre, Robert Rudd
Roan, Brancis Joseph
Requena, Joseph Louis
Rogers, John Harold
Robinson, Gerald John
Rousseau, Raphael
Reasoner, Cherry Aloysius
Romero, Joachim
Ryan, John Joseph
Ritter, Forrest Hamilton
Richmond, Charles Milton
Reynolds, Lawrence
Riley, Thomas Henry
Rush, Eugene Alphonsus
Roczynialski, Ladislaus
Ryan, Thomas Anthony
Rozewicz, Anthony John
Ruof, John Edward
Rath, Raymond
Illinois
Illinois
Cuba
Cuba
Illinois
Illinois
Indiana
Mississippi
Iowa
Illinois
Ohio
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
South Dakota
South Dakota
Indiana
Ohio
Mexico
Illinois
Ohio
Cuba
Tennessee
Mexico
Wisconsin
Indiana
Illinois
Wisconsin
Indiana
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
Indiana
Pennsylvania
New'York
Schick, Francis Sorg, Claude Albert Sheehan, Joseph Gary Sheehan, John Drury Sheehan, Charles Higgins Sexton, Thomas George	Indiana New York Illinois Illinois Illinois Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
223
Sack, Claude	Illinois
Serrano, Pedro	Philippine Islands
Sieber, Raymond Joseph	Wisconsin
Sinnott, Joseph Daniel	Oregon
Schindler, John William	Indiana
Sanchez, Alfred Arnulf	Mexico
Spratt, Robert William	Wyoming
Slick, John Lucius	Indiana
Schmid, Otto Aloysius	Missouri
Schwalbe, Joseph William	Illinois
Schwalbe, Oscar Henry	Illinois
Streff, Anthony Lawrence	Nebraska
Sickler, Francis John	Illinois
Spear, Arthur Upham	Minnesota
Shenk, Robert Raymond	Ohio
Sexton, James Clement	Ohio
Schaub, John Gallus	Indiana
Schnelker, Norbert Bernard	Indiana
Scales, John Joseph	New York
Sundberg, Bertram John	Illinois
Saley, Robert Lawrence	Iowa
Sawyer, John Xavier	Pennsylvania
Salomon, Earl Litt	Illinois
Sheehan, John William	Illinois
Stay art, Charles Andrew	Illinois
Sheehan, Thomas Anthony	Ohio,
Summers, Edward James	Indiana
Swayzee, Mark Richard	Indiana
Stoakes, Lawrence Michael	Pennsylvania
Sheehan, Clarence Joseph	Illinois
Sprenger, George William	Illinois
Symonds, Henry Robert	Illinois
Simon, Arthur Thomas	Cuba
Sugita, Yosabro Francis	Japan
San Pedro, Manuel Rodriguez	Cuba
Scanlon, Raymond Joseph	New York
Staley, Albert Clifford	Pennsylvania
Smithson, Forrest Custer	Oregon
Scanlon, Francis Aloysius	New York
Sumner, William Fowler	Indiana
Stewart, Frederick J ames	Wisconsin
Schmit’t, John Arthur	Ohio
224
BULLETIN OF TUB
Schmitt, William Charles	Minnesota
Szulc, John	Pennsylvania Sheahan, Henry Joseph	Ireland Schubert, Francis Xavier	Indiana Skowpowski, Hippolitus Joseph	Russia Stack, James Joseph	Illinois Sobolewski, Wenceslaus	Illinois Smith, Lucius	Michigan Strassner, George Francis	Ohio Schreyer, Andrew Ignatius	Indiana Szymanski, Stanislaus	New York	
Thomas, James Walter	Indiana Trevino, Gustave Lorenzo	Mexico Tomlinson, John Bradley	Arkansas Tomlinson, Hugh Douglas	Arkansas Talifero, William Berry	Michigan Trumbull, Selden	Illinois Tobin, Thomas James	South Dakota Thornton, John Shanley	Minnesota Talcott, Rodney Danforth	Indiana Tully, Herbert Charles	Illinois Tully, John Carl	Illinois Tillett, Roscoe Lloyd	Indiana Tyler, Cyril John *	Ohio Toohey, James Anthony	New York Toth, Joseph Michael	Indiana Tracey, Leo Charles	Michigan Tobolski, Stanislaus Hilarion	Indiana Tomczak, Ladislaus Proch	Illinois	
Underwood, Eugene Ulrich, George Felix Ullrich, Louis Frederick	District of Columbia Indiana Illinois
Van Cleve, Franklin Vocke, Lawrence John Von Phul, Carol Aloysius Vollmar, Harold Emmett Voorhees, Ralph Meredith Vernaza, Charles Nicholas Vernaza, William Octavius	Minnesota ‘ Ohio Missouri Wisconsin Illinois Colombia, South America Colombia, South America
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	225
Vernaza, Raphael Albert Colombia, South America
Veazy, Oscar Edward Veazy, Louis Alphonsus Villanueva, Louis Sebastian Volland, Gordon Vanderhoof, Edward Summers Vandenbossche, Joseph Daniel Villaflor, Pastor	West Virginia West Virginia Mexico Illinois Indiana Michigan Philippine Islands
Woods, James Allan Williams, Everett Edward Wilson, W. Harold’ Warrell, Charles Frederick Wolff, George William Wilson, John Marion Ware, James Michael Warren, Homer Samuel Washburn, Victor Raymond - Weis, Henry Edward Welsh, Leo John Wagner, Benjamin Walsh, George Patrick Wirsching, Aloysius White, Peter Raymond Wilson, Richard Bruce Walter, Frank Comerford Washburn, George Edward Weber, Charles Russell Willman, John Norman Waldorf, Rufus William Williams, George Thomas White, Carl Bradford Werder, Herman Joseph Werder, Oswald Engle Williams, Harry George Wilson, Earl Harry Warner, Wilbur McCullough Wadden, John William Weist, John Lambert Williams, Shannon Woolverton, Earl Eugene Wood, Fay Franklin	Colorado Indiana Michigan Indiana Mexico • New York Indiana Illinois Indiana Wisconsin Illinois Illinois Ohio Illinois Illinois Illinois Montana Illinois Illinois Missouri Illinois Missouri Tennessee Pennsylvania Pennsylvania Indiana Colorado .	Indiana South Dakota Washington Illinois Indiana New York
226
bulletin ok w
Winder, William Tucker	Ohio
Wessell, John Henry	Ohio
Wessell, Herbert John	Ohio
Wagner, Albert Alexius	Indiana
Wiercinski, Nicholas	Russia
Walsh, John James	Ireland
Womack, Harry Benton	Missouri
Woulfe, Thomas Richard	Indiana
Wrobel, John Joseph	Indiana
Wenninger, Francis Joseph	Indiana
Weisbecker, Aloysius Augustine	Indiana
Wagenknecht, Frederick Philip	Ohio
Wahlen, Albert Henry	Indiana
Wilson, Charles Leslie	Colorado
Yrisarri, Jacob Joseph	New Mexico
Yrisarri, Bdward Castille	New Mexico
Youngerman, Frank	Iowa
Young, Jacob Philip	Indiana
Zamorano, Charles	Colombia,	South America
Zimmer, Henry Joseph	Pennsylvania
Zgodzinski, Leo Stanislaus	Indiana
Zink, William Ignatius	Ohio
Zink, Charles Victor	Ohio
Zink, Francis Aloysius	Ohio
Sixty-Third
Annual Commencement*
Degrees, Honors, Prize Medals* -
BULLETIN OF THE
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was* conferred on
The Reverend Francis Clement Kelley, Chicago,
Illinois.
The Reverend John Talbot Smith, New York City.
The Degree of Master of Science in Biology was con -
ferred on
Clarence Janies Kennedy, Chicago, Illinois.
The'Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
William Edward Perce, Hanover, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of -Arts was conferred on
Thomas Edmund Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
Wendell Phillips Corcoran, Chicago, Illinois.
William Francis Cunningham, Chicago, Illinois.
James Dominic Jordan, Scranton, Pennsylvania.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Wesley James Donahue, Chicago, Illinois.
Louis McMahon Kelley, Anderson, Indiana.
Edward Joseph Kenny, Eldred, Pennsylvania.
William Francis Molony, Crawfordsville, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on
William Augustine Bolger, Clifford, Michigan.
Francis Thomas Collier, Quebec, Canada.
John Leo Coontz, Vandalia, Missouri.
Paul Joseph Foik, Stratford, Ontario, Canada.
Robert Adam Kasper, Evanston, Illinois.
James Thomas Keefe, Sioux City, Iowa.
Mathew John Kenefick, Michigan City, Indiana.
Edward Francis O’Flynn, Butte, Montana.
Ambrose Aloysius O’Connell, Ottumwa, Iowa.
John William Wadden, Madison, South Dakota.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME. .	22p
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
ferred on
Franklin Bennett McCarty, Lynn, Massachusetts.
Denis Edmund Lannan, Odell, Illinois.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
James Henry Bach, Avoca, Minnesota.
Clement Leo Devine, Alliance, Ohio.
William Janies Donovan, Beresford, South Dakota..
Joseph Porfirio Gallart, Guantanamo, Cuba.
Joseph Thomas Lantry, Spearville, Kansas.
John Porfirio Perez Guantanamo, Cuba.
Thomas Janies Tobin, Madison, South Dakota.
Louis Sebastian Villanueva, Celaya, Mexico.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engi-
neering was conferred on
Joseph Aloysius Dwan, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
James Vincent Cunningham, Chicago, Illinois.
Michael Angelo Diskin, Scottdale, Pennsylvania.
Gallitizin Aloysius ‘Farabaugh, Loretto, Pennsyl-
vania.
John Farragher, Youngstown, Ohio.
Ralph Samuel Feig, Mishawaka, Indiana.
Oscar Alexander Fox, Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Walter Leroy Joyce, Ashland, Wisconsin.
John Frank Hanan, La Grange, Indiana.
Patrick Mervan Malloy, Salix, Iowa.
Thomas Paul McGannon, Corning, New York.
John William Sheehan, Jr., Springfield, Illinois.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on .
Joseph Francis Cabrera, Cebu, Philippine Islands.
Felix Cajulis, Cavite, Philippine Islands.
Arthur Hervey, South Bend, Indiana.
Richard Bruce Wilson, Chicago, Illinois.
230
bueeetin of the
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical Engineer-
ing were awarded to
Edmund Berrigan, Ononaga Valley, New York.
Joseph Louis Requena, Mexico City, Mexico.
Gustave Lawrence Trevino, Monterey, Mexico.
A Certificate for the Short Program in Mechanical En-
gineering was awarded to
Patrick Albert Gorman, Waco, Texas.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Spire Bernard Berry, Tulsa, Indian Territory.
Henry Joseph Bolin, Douglas, Wyoming.
Frank Reser Condon, Battle Creek, Michigan.
John Edward Corrigan, Ransom, Illinois.
Sidney Alexander Cressey, South Bend, Indiana.
Joseph Elias Fernandez, Mexico City, Mexico.
John Edward Nemanich, Joliet, Illinois.
Joseph Vazquez Prada, Celaya, Mexico.
Anthony Albert Rosenberger, Evansville, Indiana.
Pedro Serrano, Bacon, Philippine Islands.
Harold Emmett Vollmar, Marshfield, Wisconsin.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by Mr. Henry Quan,
of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Program, Senior Year,
was awarded to
Wendeee Phieeips Corcoran, Chicago,
Ieeinois.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George
Mason, of Chicago, for the student of Carroll
Hall having the best record for the scholastic
year was awarded to
Leo Cyrie McEeroy, Bridgeport, Connecticut.
UNIVERSITY OR NQTRE DAME.	231
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, pre-
sented by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of Covington,
Kentucky, was awarded to
Thomas Edmund Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by .
the Hon. William P. Breen, of the Class of ’77,
was awarded to
Wesley James Donahue, Chicago, Illinois.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
A. S. Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, for the best
record for four years in the Civil Engineering
Program was awarded to
Wiliam James Donovan, Beresford, South
Dakota.
The O'Keefe Gold Medal for the best essay on a legal
subject, presented by Mr. P. J. O’Keefe, of
Chicago, was awarded to
John William Sheehan, Jr., Springfield,
Illinois.
The O'Keefe Prize for a meritorious essay on a legal
subject, presented by Mr. P. J. O’Keefe, of Chi-
cago, was awarded to
Gallitzin Aloysius Earabaugh, Loretto,
Pennsylvania.
The Chicago Alumni Association Gold Medal for Chris-
tian Doctrine, was awarded to
Raymond Aloysius McNally, Youngstown,
Ohio.
The Fitzsimmmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine,
in Moral A., Second Section, presented by the
Rev. M. J. PEtzsimmons, of Chicago, was
awarded to
Jesse Henry Roth, Eowler, Indiana.
232
bulletin ok the
The Quinn Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, in Moral
B., Birst Section, presented by the Reverend
John J. Quinn, of the Class of ’83, was
awarded to
Joachim Douis Batlle, Barcelona, Spain.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Moral B.j
Second Section, was awarded to
Wilfred Washington Rice, Vicksburg, Miss-
issippi.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in Carroll
Hall, presented by the Rev. B. J. Barry, of Chi-
cago, was awarded to
Raymond Joseph Sieber, Racine, Wisconsin.
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold for debating work, pre-
sented by Mr. J. V. Clark, of Chicago, was
awarded as follows:
Thirty-five dollars to
Wesley James, Donahue, Chicago, Illinois.
Twenty-five dollars to
William Augustine Bolger, Clifford, Mich.
Bifteen dollars to
Thomas Edmjjnd Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in the
Commercial School, was awarded to
John Bdward Corrigan, Ransom, Illinois.
The O’Brien Gold Medal for the best record in the last
two years of the Preparatory Batin Courses, the
gift of the Rev. Terence A. O’Brien, of Chi-
cago, was awarded to
Brancis Joseph Wenninger, South Bend, Ind.
The Gold Medal for Oratory in the Inter - Hall Oratori-
cal Teague, was awarded to
George Joseph Finnigan, Malone, New York.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	233
The Barry Elocution Medals presented by the Honorable
P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
Stewart Graham, Chicago, Ieeinois.
The Joseph A. Lyons Gold Medal for Elocution was not
awarded because the standard of excellence was
not attained.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
The Abercrombie Gold Medal for Excellence in studies
was awarded to
Aebertus Aeeen Hieton, Seattee, Washington.
The Sorin Gold Medal for Elocution was awarded
to
George Mieius, New York City.
The Gold Medal for Composition was awarded to
John Raymond Kavanaugh, Chicago, Ieeinois.
The Gold Medal for Improvement in Piano was awarded
to
Joseph Michaee Krye, Chicago, Ieeinois.
The Gold Medal for Penmanship was awarded to
Care Bradford White, Chattanooga, Tenn-
essee.
The Gold Medal for Letter Writing was awarded to
Charees Russeee Weber, Chicago, Ieeinois
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine was awarded
to
Charees Andrew Gering, Chicago, Ieeinois.
The Gold Medal for Vocal Music was awarded to
Pideeis Norton Burtt, Gaeesburg, Ieeinois.
The Silver Medal for Piano was awarded to
Maurice Roe, Chicago, Ieeinois.
234
bulletin of the
DEPORTMENT PRIZES.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
and St. Edward’s Halls who have spent two full years at Notre
Dame and whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable.
Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of St.
Edward’s Hall who have spent two full years at Notre Dame and
whose deportment has given general satisfaction.
Certificates for excellent deportment are awarded to pupils of
Carroll and St Edward’s Halls who have been in residence at
least tw'O terms, and whose deportment during the whole time
has been unexceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to
John Baptist Gallart, Guantanamo, Cuba.
( Renewal)
Raphael Rousseau, Guantanamo, Cuba.
Joseph Gary Sheehan, Winnetka, Illinois.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Gold Medals for Deportment were awarded to
John Martin Comerford, Minooka, Illinois.
George Louis Comerford, Minooka, Illinois.
( Renewal.)
Louis Fritch, Chicago, Illinois.
Neil Gray, Cleveland, Ohio. (Renewal.)
John Hiram Holladay, St. Louis, Missouri.
Clifton Louisell, Mobile, Alabama. (Renewal.)
Joseph Charles Peurrung, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Louis Alphonsus Veazy, Pratt, West Virginia.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME.	235
Silver Medals for Deportment were awarded to
Horace de Baca, Denver, Colorado.
Alfred de Baca, Denver, Colorado.
Mark Charles Broad, Chicago, Illinois.
Lawnence Joseph Carter, Chicago, Illinois.
Thomas Berry O’Connell, Chicago, Illinois.
Godfrey Meyer Roberts, Armour, South Dakota.
CARROLL HALL.
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to
Henry Andrew Baradat, Caimanero, Cuba.
Clemens Ulrich Brinkman, Chicago, Illinois.
Clyde Floi Broussard, Beaumont, Texas.
Charles Fzra Cowles, Battle Creek, Michigan.
Aloysius Francis Dolan, St. Louis, Missouri.
Anthony Marino Bspinal, Guanabacoa, Cuba.
Henry Janies Frawley, Deadwood, South Dakota.
Julius Joseph Lee, Denver, Colorado.
Lester Meyer Livingston, South Bend, Indiana.
Udward James Markey, Anderson, Indiana.
George Francis Mason, Chicago, Illinois.
Bmmett Aloysius Moynahan, Chicago, Illinois.
* Jeremiah Anthony McCarthy, Lafayette, Indiana.
Francis Fergus McIver, New York City.
Ralph William Newton, Glenn Fllyn, Illinois.
Joseph Lopez Portilla, Mexico City, Mexico.
Joseph Vazquez Prada, Celaya, Mexico.
Harry Thomas Rafferty, Canton, Illinois.
Frank Youngerman, Des Moines, Iowa. -'
Bdward Castille Yrissarri, Albuquerque,
Mexico.
New
236
bulletin of the
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to
Carl Bensberg, St. Louis, Missouri.
Robert Benson Browne, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Bernard Pratt Bogy, St. Louis, Missouri.
Edmund John Burke, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Malcom White Dillon, Denver, Colorado.
Wallace Johnson Evans, Chicago, Illinois.
Judson George Follett, Sioux City, Iowa.
Milton Gumbiner, Chicago, Illinois.
Samuel Carrick Haynie, Williamsville, Missouri.
Francis Thomas Keefe, Detroit, Michigan.
Richard William Knisely, Chicago, Illinois.
Jesse Anthony Madarasz, Denver, Colorado,
Lucian Maxwell, Chicago, Illinois.
Glendon Thomas Millea, South Bend, Indiana.
Edward Isidore Ogus, Chicago, Illinois.
Maurice'Joseph O’Shea, Chicago, Illinois.
Edward Partridge, Chicago, Illinois.
Elroy Rider, South Bend, Indiana.
Maurice Roe, Chicago, Illinois.
Oscar Henry Schwalbe, Chicago, Illinois.
John Drury Sheehan, Winnetka, Illinois.
Bertram John Sundberg, Chicago, Illinois.
Franklin Van Cleve, St. Paul, Minnesota.
Benjamin Wagner, Chicago, Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
237
INDEX
Administration Building, The	12
Admission to the Colleges,	19, 38, 50, 58, 64, 86
Advanced Standing	19, 97
Anatomy, Courses in	45, 106
Architecture, The College of	84
Architecture, Courses in	106
Arts and Letters, The College of	36
Astronomy, Course in	111
Athletics	17,.29
Bachelors’ Degrees	20
Bacteriology, Course in	111
Biology, Program in	56
Biological Laboratories	44
Board of Trustees	4
Board and Lodging	33
Botany, Courses in	112
Botanical Laboratories	44
Breen Medal	26
Brownson Hall	16
Buildings	12
Calendar	3
Carroll Scholarship	24
Carroll Hall	16
Charter	11
Chemical Laboratories	14, 46
Chemistry, The Department of	55
Chemistry, Courses in	113
Christian Doctrine, Courses in	119
Christian Doctrine Medals	'	26
Church, The ,	12
Civil Engineering, The Department of	65
Civil Engineering, Courses in	120
Civil Government, Course in	182
Classics, The Department of Colleges:	40
College of Arts and Letters	36
College of Architecture	84
College of Engineering	62
College of Law	96
College of Science	44
Commercial School	196
C ommencemen t	227
Concerts and Lectures	29, 30
Corby Hall	15
238
bulletin oe the
Courses of Instruction	105, 182
Debating Prize	27
Degrees	20, 228
Directory of the University	2
Directors of Halls	6
Discipline	28
Doctor of Philosophy, The Degree of	22
Dormitories	15,16
Drawing, Courses in	127, 130, 182
Economics, The Department of	42
Economics, Courses in	166
Elocution, Courses in	135
Elocution Medals	27
Electrical Engineering, The Department of	76
Electrical Engineering, Courses in	133
Engineering Hall	14
Engineering, The College of	62
English, Courses in	137, 183
Entrance Requirements	38, 50, 58, 64, 86, 97
Ethics, Courses in	163
Executive Officers	5
Expenses	33, 34, 203
Faculty	7, 174
Ford Scholarships	24
French, Courses in	108, 171, 185
Geology, Courses in	139
German, Courses in	140, 187
Graduate Courses	104, 114, 119, 139,
143, 145, 148, 150, 163, 168	
Grammar School	194, 200
Greek, Courses in	141, 186
Gymnasium	17
History and Economics, The Deparment of	42
History, Courses in	144, 187
Historical Sketch of the University	11
Honors, and Prizes	230
Hospital	17, 34
Hughes Medal	26
Infirmary	17
Instruction, System of	18
Instructors in the Preparatory School	174
Italian. Courses in	170
Johnson Scholarship	24
Laboratory Fees
Laboratories
Latin, Courses in
52, 54, 56, 59, 63, 177
37, 44, 45, 56, 46, 48, 65, 68, 69, 76, 86
146,188
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	239
Law, The College of	96
Law, Courses in	102
Lectures and Concerts	29, 20
Letters, The Department of	41
Library, The Main	12
Libraries, Department	37, 44, 48, 59, 72,101
List of Students	206
Lodging, Board and	33
Logic, Courses in	162
Mason Medal	25
Masters’ Degrees	21
Mathematics, Courses in	148, 189
Meehan Medal	25
Mechanical Engineering, The Department of	68
Mechanical Engineering, Courses in	,151
Medals, Prize	25, 230
Metaphysics, Courses in	162
Microscopy, Courses in	156
Minims, The School for	200
Museum	13
Music Hall	13
Music, Courses in	156
Observatory	15
Officers of the University	5
O’Keefe Medal	26
Oratory, Courses in	136
Pharmacy, The Department of	58
Pharmacy, Courses in	160
Philosophy, Courses in	162
Physical Laboratory	48
Physics, Courses in	164
Physiology, Courses in	165
Political Science, Courses in	166
Politics, Courses in	167
Portuguese, Courses in	170
Preparatory School	172, 177
Prizes	25,230
Professors	7
Programs of Studies 40, 41, 42, 53, 55, 57, 60, 67, 73, 75
80, 82, 92, 93, 94, 102, 178, 179, 180, 181, 197
Provencal, Courses in	171
Psychology, Courses in	162
Psychological Laboratory	37
Quan Medal	25
Regulations Governing Admission to the Colleges	19
Romance Languages, Courses in	168
Scholarships	23
Science Hall	13
240
BULLETIN or THE
Science, The College of	44
Science, Program of General	-	52
Science, Courses in Elementary	192
Short Programs in
Architecture	91
Electrical Engineering	81
Mechanical Engineering	74
Shopwork, Courses in	171
Sociology, Course in	168
Societies	32, 201
Sorin Hall	15
Spanish, Courses in	169
Special Students	23, 97
Students, List of	206
St'. Joseph Hall	16
System of Instruction	18
Title (Legal) of the University	11
Theater, The University	13
Trustees, Board of	4
Tuition Fees	33
University of Notre Dame	'	11
"Washington Hall	13
Zoology, Courses in	172
It is desired that every Graduate receive a copy
of the Bulletin. The Faculty will therefore consider
it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus changes
his address. ..." A
On application to the President bulletins will be
sent to all who are interested in the work of the
University	....	'■