Series IL
Number IV.-
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
April, 1907
Entered at the Postofiice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
5
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY — Address :
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
■ Notre Dame, Indiana,.
The STUDENTS —Address;
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hare in which the student lives should be added..
A PostofE.ee, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance-
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University..
The University is two miles from the city of South.
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the-
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.,
TREASURER.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE - PRESIDENT.
Rev. WILLIAM A. MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OE STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
secretary.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
R$v. JAMBS J. BRBNCH, C. S. C.
Rrv. GBORGB O’CONNOR, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
Rbv. timothy murphy, c. s. c.
Rev. LBO J. HBISBR, C. S. C.
Rev. GBORGB J. MARR, C. S. C_
CORBY HALL
Rev. JOHN McMANUS, C. S. C.
Mr. WILLIAM O’BRIBN, C. S. C.
Mr. JOHN DBLAUNAY, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. CBLBSTINB, C. S. C.
Bro. VINCBNT, C. S. C„
CARROLL HALL
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.
Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
Bro. GBORGB, C. S. C.
Bro. LOUIS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL
Bro. BLORIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CASIMIR, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL
Bro. CAJBTAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.
Bro. BRNBST, C. S. C
FACULTY
OF THE DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
ROBERT L. GREEN, Ph. G.,
Pharmacy and Materia Medica.
Rhv. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Microscopy.
Rbv. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Analytical Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rbv. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Organic Chemistry and Botany.
Rhv. LEO A. HEISER, C. S. C.,
Physiology and Bacteriology.
ARTHUR S. FUNK, B. S.,
General Chemistry and Physics.
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING.
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
"Be it enacted by fie General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Dewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Rae,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession’ with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other universities
in the United States.”
12
BULLETIN OF THE
MAIN LIBRARY.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-rooms are
in this building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
the others of the University is lighted by electricity and
gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of the first
floor are decorated with mural paintings by G-regori.
THE CHURCH.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes of general litera-
ture. The departments of literary criticism, history,
political science and the Greek and Latin classics are
well represented. Special libraries containing reference
works on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science. The College of Law has a
•complete library of its own. Ample reading room is
provided in the main library. The best literary maga-
zines and reviews, as well as the current numbers of
scientific and technical journals are kept on file. Stu-
dents have access to the Library from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00
p. m.
14
BULLETIN OF THE
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens. The departments of
Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Phi-
losophy, Botany and Biology have recitation rooms and
laboratories in this building. The equipment for each of
these departments is extensive and complete.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
The department of Biology, on the north side of the
second floor of Science Hall, consists of three larg'e class-
rooms and laboratories properly ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for graduate
students. All the class rooms are furnished with
THE PHYSICAL CABINET
charts and models necessary in teaching the different
courses. The arrangement of windows is such that the
. rooms can be easily darkened so that stereopticon and
lantern slides on the subjects of Botany, Zoology, and
Physiology may be used.
The laboratories are well equipped with compound
and dissecting microscopes, and in each room there is a
library of books pertaining to biological subjects. The
botanical laboratory contains twenty-four compound
i6
BULLETIN OF THE
microscopes and all the requisite accessories for work in
Vegetable Histology and Cryptogamic Botany. The
:general laboratory of Microscopy, Histology and Bmbry-
■ology is also supplied with compound microscopes and
the equipment indispensable in the courses mentioned
.above.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in Bacteriology. Apart from the others is
a laboratory of Photo - Micrography which contains a
perfect photo - micrographic instrument with a complete
set of accessory apparatus for experimentation, photo -
graphing microscopic objects, making lantern-slides, etc.
A large and fully equipped dark-room adjoins this
laboratory.
The south side of the second floor consists of class-
rooms and laboratories for the courses in Geology and
Mineralogy. The laboratories adjoining the class-
rooms are well equipped for work in blow pipe analysis
and assaying.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments described above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological col -
lection on the second floor at present fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large
collection of representative vertebrate skeletons has
recently been added to this part of the Museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the
other of Canada. There is also a second collection of
the woods and fruits of the United States, almost
complete.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
17
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a
carefully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large geological collec-
MUSEUM.
tion; some of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil
remains of animal and plant life.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two story brick building, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor is given up to the wood
shop and also contains a well lighted drawing room
SORIN HALL.
I-1
co
BULLETIN OE THE
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
19
where students in designing may consult complete work-
ing drawings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to
advanced work and space is given to two large labora-
tories and lecture rooms. The second floor is occupied
by the Department of Pharmacy, and contains a large
well- equipped laboratory, a modern drug store, a lecture
room and museum, a library for pharmaceutical publi-
cations, and a general stock room. The general inor-
ganic, organic and elementary chemical -laboratories
are on the third floor. Bach laboratory is provided
with ample hood accommodations, and each desk is
furnished with water, gas and suction.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings 121
feet in depth. It has a basement and three high stories,
and contains 101 private rooms for advanced students.
These rooms are furnished, and students of Senior, Junior,
or Sophomore standing in any of the Colleges are-not
required to pay rent. On the first floor there is a chapel,
a law lecture room, and a law library. The building is
lighted with electricity and heated with steam. In the
basement are recreation rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with recre-
ation rooms and chapel. The building is lighted with
electricity and gas and heated with steam. Bor room-
rent and care of the room a fee is charged.
20
BULLETIN OF THE
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for the
use of students during illness. The sick are cared for
by Sisters of Holy Cross, and the University physician
visits them daily.
MUSIC HALL,
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theater. The
Theater is elaborately equipped -with stage settings. It
will seat 1,200 persons.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Labora-
tories and is designed for an equatorial telescope and
for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial tele-
scope now in the building is intended for students of
astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground: it is used for indoor meets, winter base ball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
and shower-baths. Tri ends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than $3,000 to the fund for
rebuilding.
Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic
games. There is a permanent grand stand near the
baseball diamond and the cinder track and a portable
stand near the football rectangle. The field contains
ten acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. B., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principal are: Saint
Joseph’s Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Bdward’s Hall
22
BULLETIN OF THE
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges must
present evidence, either by examination or by a properly
attested certificate, of ability to enter on the courses of
the Freshman year. The specific subjects required for
entrance will be found later in this catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admis-
sion to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, at the beginning of the Fall Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations
in one or more of the subjects required for admission to
any College Program may, at the discretion of the
Faculty, be admitted to his class conditioned, to make
up his deficiency by extra study within one school year.
Only when the conditions are removed will the student
be admitted to full standing in his class.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited to
the State Universities, will be admitted without exami-
nation to the Freshman year of any program to which
their preparatory studies entitle them.
Certificates of work done in public or private High
Schools will not be accepted instead of examinations,
unless the applicant has passed the final examination
after a full course in his school, and the Faculty of the
University are satisfied with the standing of the school.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing who
are required to take examinations must pass, in addition
to the usual entrance examinations, an examination in
the work-already done by the classes they desire to enter.
The additional subjects may be found in the several
programs of studies.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	23
Applicants for advanced standing who present certifi-
cates from other colleges or universities may be received
at the discretion of the Faculty with or without exami-
nation as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students who are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed courses in Evidences
of Religion.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing will
be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintain that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of
a youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impos-
sible to bring about this development where students
are granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty govern-
ment while outside the class-room. A young man
must learn obedience to law by the actual practice of
obedience, not merely by appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for collegiate work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by exper-
ience to be salutary, are enforced at the University:
1.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students dur-
ing the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
24
BULLETIN OF THE
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in exam-
inations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the
tise of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
absence from the University limits are among the causes for
expulsion. In case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees shall be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall, and those under thirteen, in St. Bdward's Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such stu-
dents of Sorin, Corby and Brownson halls as have received
from their parents written permission to use tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or
Corby halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Altheugh students of all religious denominations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
sei vice in the University Church at stated times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is positively pro-
hibited.	’	-
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of
study will not be permitted, but students are expected to
take part in outdoor sports.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors of
professionalism.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice -President of the University and six members of the
Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve the right of
a final decision on all questions concerning athletics. The
Faculty Board will determine the amateur standing of
the members of the athletic teams and apportion the
finances. By this means indiscreet and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have addressed
the University in the past few years may be noted four
Apostolic Delegates: Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli,
and Monsignors Falconio and Agius; Archbishops
Ireland, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and
Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, O’Gorman and
Shanley. There were also such noted Buropean church-
men as the Abbe Felix Klein and the foremost of living
Bnglish historians, Dom Gasquet, besides men of letters
like - Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Bgan, Henry
Van Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats,
James Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie
Read and Henry James, and such men of affairs as
Senator Taft, ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge,
Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, Repre-
sentative Adam Bede, William P. Breen and Bourke
Cockran. Concerts are given frequently by organiza-
tions from without.
26
BULLETIN OF THE
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).........10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and mending of
Linens, per session of nearly Ten Months..... 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)................$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition......................   250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account..................... 10.00
Special Lecture and Concert Course.......................... 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra Expense the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed below).
On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition.................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Sessions, September and January. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scho-
lastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the
student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice;
and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself
from the University at any time or for any cause without proper
permission. However, an exception is made if it seems to be
expedient for him to go to his home because of severe or pro-
tracted illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any student
whose account with the University has not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
For whole Session of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS —
Seniors, Juniors, anti Sopnomores, Free; Freshmen ■ •. $50.00
Preparatory Students.............................$80.C0
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
lo the regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the
following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year.
The charges will be pro rata, for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Les-	Use of each Instrument$ 5.CJ
sons on Piano and use	Vocal Culture........ 40.00
of Instrument...,...$60.00 Elocution — Special
Use of Piano for Ad-	Course............... 10.00
vanced Students.....30.00 Use of Library........... 5.00
Telegraphy............. 25.00	“Scholastic”—College
Typewriting—Full Course	Paper...........‘..... 1.50
(20 Lessons) ........ 5.00	Artistic Drawing...... 25.00
Phonography............ 25.00 Applied Electricity..... 40.00
Practical Mechanics.... 30.00 Special Lecture and Con-
Lessons on Violin, Guitar,	cert Course........... 3.00
Flute, Cornet, Clarinet	Gymnastics—Full Course
or Mandolin......... 30.00	(20 Lessons)........ 5.00
Laboratory Fees Listed under Regular Courses.
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a Degree, $10.00; Commercial
Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order or
express, payable* tp the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed dzcring
the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend theii-
Summer Vacation tender the care of the University authorities
can be accomodated at San Josh Park, Lawton, Michigan.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the Univer-
sity, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesiastical
state can be received at special rates. Fuller information can be
obtained by addressing the President.
28
BULLETIN OF THE
THE DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
The Department of Pharmacy of the University of
Notre Dame was established in 1898. From the very
beginning the department has enjoyed a healthy and
satisfactory growth, a growth which gives every promise
CHEMICAL LABORATORIES.
of continuance. The equipment and scope of the work
have been enlarged from time to time in order to keep
abreast of progress in pharmaceutical lines. This pro -
gressive policy will continue to be maintained. The aim
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
kept constantly in view is to furnish a broad, thorough,
practical training in pharmacy, which will enable the
student to take his place creditably in any of the varied
branches of his calling. That this aim has been fully
realized is attested by the fact that many of our grad-
uates in pharmacy are occupying positions of responsi-
bility in large drug houses,—wholesale, retail and
manuf acturin g.
The location of the University is ideal. It is situated
on the banks of two charming lakes, near the St. Joseph
river, a river famous for its beauty as well as its history.
The climate is agreeable and health - promoting, temp-
ered in winter as well as in summer by Lake Michigan
which is not far distant. The location of the University
away from the- immediate neighborhood of a large city
is another great advantage. Removed from the dis-
tractions of city life the student can devote his whole
attention undisturbed to his work and in consequence
can make better progress than he could if he were
subject to those distractions. The instructors, too,
devote their whole time to teaching and this of course
insures thoroughness.
That the advantage of a scientific training is being
recognized more and more every day is proved by the
increasing number of students choosing this line of work.
The hand is trained as well as the mind, and thus is
furnished an evenly balanced education. The thorough,
systematic, painstaking work required by this study in
the formative period of life exercises a wholesome effect
on the character and establishes the clear and accurate
method of thought and action which are so essential to
success in this age of high pressure work. Besides its
practical value, the pharmacy course offers exceptional
opportunities for a training of this character owing to
the large amount of laboratory work required.
30
BULLETIN OF THE
PHARMACY LECTURE ROOM.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DA MR.
31
METHODS AND SCOPE OF THE WORK
The subject is presented in such a manner as to impart
a thorough theoretical as well as a practical knowledge
of pharmacy. The work commences with the simplest
and gradually leads up to the most complicated pro-
cesses. Lectures, demonstrations and discussions pre-
cede and accompany the practical work in the laboratory.
The application of the theory to the manufacture of
preparations firmly grounds the student in the principles
of the study and gives him a comprehensive understand-
of the subject.
Special attention is given .to the little details which are
so essential to success in any professional work, par-
ticularly in pharmacy. The student is carefully drilled
in store etiquette, business hints, prescription work and
dispensing. Neatness and order in all the operations
and extreme care in the manufacture of all preparations
are required throughout the courses. A frequent and
rigid inspection of apparatus and desks by the instructor
does much to establish habits of order and neatness. To
inculcate habits of caution and accuracy, which are of
paramount importance in pharmacy, the student is
required to fill out an order blank for his laboratory
supplies for each preparation. The druggist in charge
fills the order countersigns it and hands it to the
instructor for verification. Mistakes are thereby easily
located and trouble in the work too is often cleared up.
This check exercises a wholesome restraining influence
on the student and renders careless, slip-shod work
almost impossible.
Each student works independently in the laboratory
under the supervision of the instructor. The work is
done in three or more consecutive hours on consecutive
32
BULLETIN OF THE
days. Continuity of effort is of unquestioned, value as it
insures more rapid progress and better work than brief
periods w7ith long intermissions. Many pharmaceutical
processes require considerable time for their completion,
and success in such cases can be attained only by
uninterrupted attention. Besides the loss of time inci-
dent to the preparation both after and before work is
reduced to a minimum.
The second year students take weekly turns in the
drug store where they dispense supplies for the labora -
tory, order goods, invoice stock, write business letters,
THE BALANCES.
etc. This work familiarizes the student with the
general arrangement of stock and furnishes a training
practically the same as that obtained in a retail store.
The following is a partial list of the pharmaceutical
and chemical processes and preparations with which the
student becomes familiar in his work in the laboratory :
Assaying, clarification, crystallization, eolation, carboni-
zation, comminution, calcination, dilution, decantation,
decoloration, deflagration, desiccation, dialysis, distil-
lation, elutriation, expression, extraction, emulsification,
filtration, fusion, granulation, ignition, incineration,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
33
levigation, maceration, percolation, precipitation, scal-
ing, standardizing, sublimation, solution, separation,
testing, turbidation, volumetric and gravimetric esti-
mations, polariscopic and spectroscopic estimations,
manufacture of pills, trochees, lozenges, tablets, sup-
positories, plasters, ointments, cerates, powders and the
various official preparations.
LECTURE ROOM.
The following text-books and reference works are
used in the study of Pharmacy and Materia Medica: U. S.
Pharmacopoeia, U. S. Dispensatory, National Formulary,
National Dispensatory, Casparis' Pharmacy, Remington"s
Pharmacy, Scoville"s Art of Compounding, Ruddimcen" s
Incompatibilities, Oldberg" s Chemistry, Sayre's Materia
Medica and Pharmacognosy, Potter s Materia Medica and
Therapeutics, White & Wilcox Materia Medica and
Therapeutics, Sturmer"s Pharmaceutical Arithmetic.
34
bulletin oe the
ADMISSION
The department offers two programs of courses lead-
ing to degrees, one of two years leading to the degree of
Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph. G.) and another of three
years leading to the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist
(Ph. C.)
Applicants for admission to the two year program
which leads to the degree of Graduate in Pharmacy
CORNER OF THE STOCK ROOM.
(Ph. G.) must be eighteen years (18) of age and must
pass an examination in the subjects taught in the first
year of a reputable high school. A certificate from the
principal of such a school will be accepted in place of
examination.
For admission to the long program, which leads to the
degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.), applicants
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
35
must be eighteen years (18) of age and must present
satisfactory evidence by examination or certificate of
having spent two years in a high school of the best
grade. A certificate admitting to the third year of high
school wih be accepted instead of an examination.
Among the subjects which must have been studied are
Latin through Caesar and Algebra as far as logrithms.
READING ROOM.
EQUIPMENT
The Equipment of the department is complete and
modern. The laboratories for pharmaceutical work and
for chemistry especially are large, roomy and well venti -
lated. Each of these laboratories, and there are five
devoted to pharmacy and chemistry alone, measures
42x35 feet. They are twenty feet high and are lighted
on three sides, insuring plenty of light and abundance of
36
BULLETIN OF THE
air. The laboratories are furnished with hoods of good
draught, drying ovens, chambers and water stills; the
desks are provided with hot and cold water, suction, pres -
sure, acetylene, electricity, gas and the necessary reagents.
There are separate laboratories for microscopy, botany,
bacteriology,- mineralogy and assaying, and physics.
The apparatus is of the most approved type. Instru-
ments of the latest design and appliances of modern
LECTURE ROOM CHEMISTRY.
manufacture are provided for the students. Each desk
is supplied with all the apparatus necessary for ordinary
work. Special apparatus such as spectroscopes, polari-
scopes, tablet machines, specific gravity apparatus, etc.,
are furnished as required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same expe-
rience that he would get in actual business. A second
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	37
year student is placed in full charge. He is required
to furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice* stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute a
very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to read
them and compound those requiring special manipula-
tion. The reading room is supplied with all the leading
pharmaceutical and chemical journals and books of
reference. The pharmacognosy room contains specimens
of all the official and a great many unofficial drugs for
study and identification.
THESIS.
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a sub-
ject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of
this work are carefully recorded and must be typewrit-
ten and presented to the Faculty as a requirement for
graduation.
EXPENSES.
In addition to the charges for tuition, board, lodging,
etc., which will be found on pages 26 and 27, the follow-
ing laboratory fees are special to students of the Depart-
ment of Pharmacy:
Pharmaceutical Laboratory	II........$10.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory	IV........ 20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory	VI.	and VII. each	10.00
Chemistry 1........................... 5.00
Chemistry IV., V. and VI.	each, ............. 10.00
Physics............................... 5.00
Microscopy............................ 2.50

buixbtin of the
DRUG STORE.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
PROGRAMS IN DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
DEGREE: Ph. G.
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy	3	4i	I	। Pharmacy	6	41	I, II
Arithmetic	3	43	IX	j Physics	5	57	I
Botany	5	53,54	I, II	| Chemistry	2	49	X
Microscopy	2	55	I	Botany	5	53,54	I, H
Chemistry	5	45	I	Mat’ra Medica	2	43	VIII
		SECONI		) YEAR			
Pharmacy	8	41	III, IV	Pharmacy	8	4E42 46	V, VI
Chemistry	4	46	IV	Chemistry	4		V
Mat’ra Medica	3	43	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	3	43	VIII
Bacteriology	3	56	I	Pharmacog’y	3	43	X
				Physiology	4	60	I
DEGREE: Ph. C.
FIRST YEAR
Pharmacy	3	4i	1	Pharmacy	6	4i 1	I, II
Arithmetic	3	43	IX	Physics	5	57 '	I
Botany	5	53,54	1, 11	Chemistry	2	49 .	X
Microscopy	2	55	1	Botany	5	53,54!	I, II
Chemistry	5	45	_i_ i	Mat’ra Medica	2	43 !	VIII
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	|	8	41	III, IV!	Pharmacy	8	41,42^	V, VI
Chemistry	(	4	; 46	1 IV 1	Chemistry	4	46	V
Mat’ra Medica 1	3	■ 43	VIII j	Mat’ra Medica	3	43	VIII
Bacteriology i	3	56	1	1	Pharmacog’y	3	43	X
	_ —			1 1	Physiology	4	60	I
THIRD YEAR
Pharmacy	5	42	VI	Pharmacy Chemistry	5	42	VII
Chemistry	5	47	VI		5	5i	XIV
Mineralogy	2	59	I	i Urinary Anal.	3	47	vii (a)
Thesis	1			! Toxicology	3	47	vii (b)
Elective	5			Thesis	2	I	
		—		Elective	5	—	
PHARMACY LABORATORY.
o
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	41
COURSES IN PHARMACY
I.
Elements of Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various pharmaceutical processes.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Gaeenicae Pharmacy—A laboratory course to
accompany Course I. This course consists of the practi-
cal application of the pharmaceutical processes to the
manufacture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. P. preparations.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy — Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Generae Pharmacy—A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Magistrae Pharmacy — Includes the manifold
methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with consider-
ation of incompatibility, posology, and the principles
of elegant pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription
practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.
42
BULLETIN OB THE
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry — Chiefly assaying,
testing and manufacturing. Determination of melting
and boiling points, and solubilities. Some attention is
given, also, to toilet and commercial preparations with a
a view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
LIBRARY.
VII.
General Pharmacy—Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro - chemical, polariscopic and spectro-
scopic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of
manufacture.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
43
VIII.
Materia Medica — This work embraces a detailed
consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, thera-
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is given
also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin. They
are studied individually at first then in classes or groups.
The grouping is so arranged as to make the subject
comparatively easy for the student.
[ Three hours a week for three terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic—This work includes
a study of weights and measures, percentage, relation-
ship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alliga-
tion and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Pharmacognosy — The identification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with special
reference to quality and detection of adulteration.
Attention is also given to the methods of preventing loss
by improper storage or by the ravages of insects.
Important drugs are studied under the microscope in
cross section and in powder form.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
LABORATORY QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS.

BUEEETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
45
COURSES IN CHEMISTRY
I.
(a) General Chemistry—A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing a
study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text - book Remsen's Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
A Laboratory Course covering in the labora-
tory the work of the Lecture Course (I. a) and designed
to accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Inorganic Chemistry—Lor Biologi -
cal, General Science and Chemistry students. Lectures
and recitations. A complete study of the elements and
their most important compounds, following the classifi-
cation based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a
discussion of the theories of the science. Careful atten-
tion is given to the technical chemical processes and
industries, and to the writing of chemical reactions.
Text book, Newth'Inojganic Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(jf Experimental Chemistry—A Laboratory
course to accompany Course III. (a}, the work consisting
of the preparation by the student of the elements and
their more typical compounds, determination of molecu-
lar weights, verification of the fundamental laws of
chemistry, etc. During the latter part of the course,
special attention is given to the characteristic reactions
of the metals and to the principles of chemical analysis.
Text-book, Thorp.
[Two hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.']
/ -
)
46
BULLETIN OF THE
IV.
Qualitative Analysis — The work of this course
comprises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions
involved in the separation and detection of the more com -
mon inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mix-
tures of salts, and complex subjects such as earths, ores,
ashes, etc. Text-book, Perkin, supplemented by lectures.
[Four hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
CORNER OF PRIVATE LABORATORY.
V.
Quantitative Analysis—A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically, and vol-
umetrically. Complete analysis of a number of simple
salts, with partial analysis of many complex substances.
Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Four hours a week, with recitation, for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
47
VI.
(a) Elementary Organic Chemistry—Lectures
and recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their
properties. Special attention is given to the Aliphatic
and Aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(A) Experimental Organic Chemistry—A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prepa -
ration by the student in the laboratory of the most im -
portant and typical organic compounds and the investiga -
tion of their properties. Text-book, Gattermaris Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
(a} Urinary Analysis — A course of laboratory
exercises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as well
as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term ]
(£) Toxicology — Symptoms and treatment of
poisoning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis—Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in Chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student in
i.	Gas Analysis.
ii.	Water Analysis.
hi. Sugar Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and Fats.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
48
bulletin of the
IX.
(a) Advanced Organic Chemistry—An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
LABORATORY INORGANIC CHEMISTRY.
(£) Advanced Organic Laboratory—(i) The
first term of this course is spent principally in the mak-
ing of organic preparations by methods demanding
special care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2)
The second term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis,
qualitative and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydro-
gen, the halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic
compounds by the various methods ; also in the determi -
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
49
nation of molecular weights of organic compounds.
Text-books, general notes and reference works.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
X.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry—In this
course, the chemical bases and their compounds are con -
sidered, with special reference to their importance in
pharmacy and materia medica. Text-book, Sadtler* s
and Trimble's Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XI.
(<2) Electrochemistry—Lectures, experiments and -
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and their
application in the chemical industries, separation of
metals, the preparation of chemical elements and elec-
trosynthesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen and
Liipke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
{b) Electrochemical Laboratory—A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI. (<2). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electrochemis-
try, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electrometallurgy.
Quantitative determination of metals electrolytically.
Text-books, Liipke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry—The subject is divided
into topics and epochs of special interest in the develop -
ment of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at
length, together with the biographies of the men who
aided in their development. Lectures and recitations.
Seminar and journal work for advanced students.
Text-book, Meyer. References to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
5°
BULLETIN OF THE
LABORATORY QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
51
XIII.
(a) Physical Chemistry—Lectures, recitations and
demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas
density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the Phase Rule,
thermochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van
Deventer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(£) Experimental Physical Chemistry—Labo-
ratory work to accompany Course XIII. (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations by the
freezing and boiling point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV,
Industrial Chemistry—Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Advanced Quantitative—Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric
determinations of inorganic substances. Special refer-
ence work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XVI.
Research Work — Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.	.
52
BULLETIN OF THE
LABORATORY ORGANIC ANALYLIS.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
53
COURSES IN BOTANY
I.
Botany — Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the
development of the embryo and the processes of pollina-
tion and fertilization ; the study of the vegetable cell, of
botanical laboratory
its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and the
various physiological phenomena ; the structure, growth,
reproduction and general classification of the algae,
fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants.
Text-book, Bastiris College botany.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
54
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
Botanical Laboratory — Supplementary to Course
I. Special microscopical study of thal'lophyta, bryo-
phyta, pteridopliyta and spermaphyta referred to in
Course I. Drawings must be made of all plants
examined. Plants under these headings are collected
and put before the student that he may become familiar
GENERAL CHEMISTRY LABORATORY.
with their morphology, structure and classification.
The course is to accompany or precede Course I. Pro-
vision is also made in this course for students in pharmacy
to take a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical
botany. Study of the determination and classification
of the simpler official plants. The analysis of the phan-
erogams occupies the time during the spring months and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
55
the student is made familiar with the habitat and char -
acteristics of the local flora. Text - book for classification
of plants, Britton's Manual.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN MICROSCOPY
I.
Microscopy—Lectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion of light and illumination. The index
MICROSCOPY LABORATORY.
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic aberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for ad-
vanced work; immersion and adjustable objectives, camera
lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers, etc.
Special work in photo - micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
BULLETIN OB THE
II
Micro - Chemistry — Laboratory work. The prepa -
ration of micro - chemical reagents and their application
in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and
mounting tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
COURSE IN BACTERIOLOGY
Lectures and Laboratory Work—Lectures on
the form, structure, reproduction and classification of
bacteria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
bacteriological laboratory.
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
pointed out. The earN part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture-media
and in studying pure cultures of certain non - pathogenic
bacteria in these media. Observations on the micro-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
57
scopic characteristics of bacteria and special attention to
the microscopic technique required in Bacteriological
work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic
bacteria. Emphasis is given to the detection of patho-
genic germs by the various staining processes. Inocula-
tion of animals. Bacteriological investigation of water, air
DABORATORY PHYSICS.
and soil. Text-book, Abbott's Principles of Bacteriology.
[Three laboratory hours a week for one term.]
COURSE IN PHYSICS
(a) Physics — Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
Mechanics, Heat, Acoustics, Optics, Electricity and Mag-
netism are presented. The course is intended to meet
the needs of those who desire a general knowledge of
BUEEETIN OF THE
the subject, as well as to lay the foundations for
advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the cor -
rect statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
{b) The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which verify and apply prac -
LECTURE ROOM PHYSIOLOGY.
tically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the basis
for the grades in his work.
[Two hours each week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
59
COURSES IN MINERALOGY
I.
Mineralogy—lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
MINERALOGY LABORATORY.
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
II.
Assaying—Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assay -
ing of the ores of gold silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
6o
BULLETIN OB THE
COURSES IN HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY
I.
This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton's Text-book of Human
Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts and mani-
kins are at hand to facilitate all demonstrations required.
Iff Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(A) A limited number of microscopical preparations
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.
(W) During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Three recitations and one laboratory period for two terms.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (<2)
and but may select either (A) or (r).
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no
need of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without
endowment, and its work is seriously hampered because
it has no resources except the fees of students. There
are two scholarships and the interest from these founda-
tions is used in educating and boarding two students.
There are over three thousand (3,000) Catholic
students in the non - Catholic colleges of America, and
very many of these will lose their faith, and all will be
weakened in that faith, because our people look upon
collegiate institutions as the property of private corpora-
tions which are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys who can
not pay the expense of education, and who, therefore, are
obliged to go to non - Catholic colleges to the detriment
of their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and
board a student as long as the University exists.- As one
bursar is graduated another can take his place. The
founder of the scholarship, of course, always has the
privilege of appointing the student.
Foundations for Scholarships are a very pressing need.
We lack money for a library building, and for two
more dwelling halls like Sorin Hall.
There is no Library Fund for the purchase of new
books.
The names of the benefactors will be given to all
foundations.
BEQUESTS SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS FORM:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC
I give, devise, and bequeath, to the UNIVERSITY
OF NOTRE DAME DU LAC, an institution incor-
porated under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
located at Notre Dame, Indiana............
