Series IL
Number III.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
January, 1907
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
Series IL
Number III.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
January, 1907
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY — Address :
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame, Indiana,
The STUDENTS—Address ;
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH; C. S. C.,
CHANCEEEOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.,
TREASURER.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE - PRESIDENT.
Rev. WILLIAM A. MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OE STUDIES.
Rev. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
Rev. JAMBS J. ERBNCH, C. S. C.
Rev. GBORGB O’CONNOR, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
Rev. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S. C.
Rev. LBO J. HBISBR, C. S. C.
Rev. GBORGB J. MARR, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL
Rev. JOHN McMANUS, C. S. C.
Mr. WILLIAM O’BRIBN, C. S. C.
Mr. JOHN DBLAUNAY, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. CBLBSTINB, C. S. C.
Bro. VINCBNT, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.
Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
Bro. GBORGB, C. S. C.
Bro. LOUIS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH'S HALL
Bro. ELORIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CASIMIR, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL
Bro. CAJBTAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CYRIL, C. S. C.
Bro. BRNBST, C. S. C.
PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS IN THE
.	COLLEGE
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C
Philosophy.
Rev. MARTIN REGAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
REV. TIMOTHY CROWLEY, C. S. C.,
English.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B.,
Architecture.
' JAMES E. EDWARDS, A. M,. LL. B.,
Librarian.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Mechanics.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S.
Mechanical Drawing. .
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E., E. E.,
Physics and Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E., E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S„
Mathematics.
FRANK O’HARA, Ph. D.,
Political Economy and Sociology.
_	EDWARD M. SCHWAB, LL. M.,
Law.
JOHN WORDEN, B. S.,
Artistic Drawing, Modeling.
WILLIAM B. KELLEY,
Shopwork.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
7
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘University of
Notre Dame du Eac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession’ with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other universities
in the United States.” .
8
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet; it
is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome 207
feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-rooms are
in this building. The Library and the Bishops’ Memorial
Hall are also here temporarily. This building, like all
the others of the University is lighted by electricity and
gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of the first
floor are decorated with mural paintings by Gr egori.
THE CHURCH,
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower are a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY.
The Library contains 55,000 volumes of general litera-
ture. The departments of literary criticism, history,,
political science and the Greek and Latin classics are
well represented. Special libraries containing reference
works on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science. The College of Law has a.
complete library of its own. Ample reading room is
provided in the main library. The best literary maga-
zines and reviews, as well as the current numbers of
scientific and technical journals are kept on file. Stu-
dents have access to the Library from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00
p. m.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three stories in
height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens. The departments of
Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Phi-
losophy, Botany and Biology have recitation rooms and
laboratories in this building. The equipment for each of
these departments is extensive and complete.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two story brick building, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor is given up to the wood
shop and also contains a well lighted drawiug room
where students in designing may consult complete work-
ing drawings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to
advanced work and space is given to two large labora-
tories and lecture rooms. The second floor is occupied
by the Department of Pharmacy, and contains a large
well- equipped laboratory, a modern drug store, a lecture
room and museum, a library for pharmaceutical publi-
cations, and a general stock room. The general Inor-
ganic, Organic and Elementary Chemical laboratories
are on the third floor. Each laboratory is provided
with ample hood accommodations, and each desk is
furnished with water, gas and suction.
IO	BULLETIN OF THE
WASHINGTON. HALL.
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theater. The
Theater is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It
• will seat 1,200 persons.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
112 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of the
Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the first floor
there is a chapel, a law lecture room, and a law library.
The building is lighted with electricity and heated with
steam. In the basement are recreation rooms and bath
rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with recre-
ation rooms and chapel. The building is lighted with
electricity and gas and heated with steam. For room-
rent and care of the room a fee is charged.
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Labora-
tories and is designed for an equatorial telescope and
for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial tele-
scope now in the building is intended for students of
Astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
II
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for the
use of students during illness. The sick are cared for
by Sisters of Holy Cross, and the University physician
visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by- a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground: it is used for indoor meets, winter base ball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
and showerbaths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than $3,000 to the fund for
re - building.
Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic
games. There is a permanent grand stand near the
baseball diamond and the cinder track and a portable
stand near the football rectangle. The field contains
ten acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. F., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University; of these the principal are: Saint
Joseph's Hall, Holy Cross Hall, the Community House,
the Presbytery, and Saint Fdward’s Hall.
12
BULLETIN OF THE
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges must
present evidence, either by examination or by a properly
attested certificate, of ability to enter on the courses of
the Freshman Year. The specific subjects required for
entrance will be found later in this catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admis-
sion to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, at.the beginning of the Fall Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations
in one or more of the subjects required for admission to
any College Program may, at the discretion of the
Faculty, be admitted to his class conditioned, to make
up his deficiency by extra study within one school year.
Only when the conditions are removed will the student
be admitted to full standing in his class.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited to
the State Universities, will be admitted without exami-
nation to the Freshman Year of any program to which
their preparatory studies entitle them.
Certificates of work done in public or private High
Schools will not be accepted instead of examinations,
anless the applicant has passed the final examination
ufter a full course in his school, and the Faculty of the
University are satisfied with the standing of the school.
Candidates for’ admission to advanced standing who
are required to take examinations must pass, in addition
to the usual entrance examinations, an examination in
the work already done by the classes they desire to enter.
The additional subjects may be found in the programs
of studies.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Applicants for advanced standing'who present certifi-
cates from other colleges or universities may be received
at the discretion of the Faculty with or without exami-
nation as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior Year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students who are candidates for any degree
are required to take the prescribed Courses in Evidences
of Religion.
DISCIPLINE
- Official reports of each student’s class standing will
be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintain that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of
a youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impos-
sible to bring about this development where students
are granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty govern-
ment while outside the class-room. A young man
must learn obedience to law by the actual practice of
obedience, not merely by appeals to honor.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for collegiate work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by exper-
ience to be salutary, are enforced at the University:
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students dur-
ing the term time, except in. cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to.report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This - rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
I4
BULLETIN OF TELE
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
/. Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in exam-
inations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality, the
use of profane and obscene language, and an unauthorized
absence from the University limits are among the causes for
expulsion. In case of suspension or expulsion for such
offences, no fees shall be returned.
No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according^ to age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall and those under thirteen, in St. Bdward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such stu-
dents of Sorin, Corby and Brownson Halls as have received
from their parents written permission to use tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or
Corby Halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	AIthi ugh students of all relgious denominations are
received, the University is nevertheless a strictly Catholic
institution, and all students are required to attend divine
sei vice in the University Church at stated times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is positively pro-
hibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of
study will not be permitted, but students are expected to
take part in outdoor sports. '	*
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors of
professionalism.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice -President of the University and six members of the
Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve the right of
a final decision on all questions concerning athletics. The
Faculty Board will determine the amateur standing of
the members of the athletic teams and apportion the
finances. By this means indiscreet and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have addressed
the University in the past few years may be noted four
Apostolic Delegates: Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli,
and Monsignors Falconio and Agius; Archbishops
Ireland, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and
Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, O’Gorman and
Shanley. There were also such noted European church-
men as the Abbe, Felix Klein and the foremost of living
English historians, Dom Gasquet, besides men of letters
like Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry
Van Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats,
James Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie
Read and Henry James, and such men of affairs as
Senator Taft, ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge,
Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, Repre-
sentative Adam Bede, William P. Breen and Bourke
Cockran. Concerts are given frequently by organiza-
tions from without.
i6
BULLETIN OF THE
EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).........$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and mending of
Linens, per session of nearly T en Months • • • .. 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)................$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition........................ 250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account..................... 10.00
Special Lecture and Concert Course.......................... 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any extra Expense the
student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room, Special
Courses (listed belowL
On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition...........................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of the
Sessions, September and January. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scho-
lastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or in part if the
student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
-and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice;
and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself
from the University at any time or for any cause without proper
permission. However, an exception is made if it seems to be
expedient for him to go to his home because of severe or pro-
tracted illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any student
whose account with the University has not been settled.
SPECIAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE:
For whole Session of nearly Ten Months.
PRIVATE ROOMS —
Seniors, Juniors, and Sopnomores, Free; Freshmen • • • • $50.00
Preparatory Students..................$80.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular studies of the course they have entered, any of the
following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year.
The charges will be pro rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Ees-
sons on Piano and use
of Instrument.........$60.00
Use of Piano for Ad-
vanced Students..... 30.00
Telegraphy............ 25.00
Typewriting—Full Course
(20 Eessons) ........ 5.00
Phonography........... 25.00
Practical Mechanics.... 30.00
Eessons on Violin, Guitar,
Flute, Cornet, Clarinet
or Mandolin......... 30.00
Use of each Instrument. .$ 5.co
Vocal Culture......... 40.00
Elocution — Special
Course.............. 10.00
Use of Eibrary......... 5.00
“ Scholastic”— College
■ Paper................ 1.50
Artistic Drawing....... 25.00
Applied Electricity.... 40.00
Special Eecture and Con-
cert Course.......... 3.00
Gymnastics—Full Course
(20 Eessons)......... 5.00
Eaboratory Fees Eisted under Regular Courses. '
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to a Degree, $10.00; Commercial
Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Eaboratory Fees,
etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Brownson and Carroll Halls are Cosed during
the months of July and Aiigtist. Students wishing to spend thei?
Summer Vacation under the care of the University atdhorities
can be accomodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
In consequence of benefactions lately received by the Univer-
sity, a limited number of students aspiring to the ecclesiastical
state can be received at special rates. Fuller information can be
obtained by addressing the President.
18
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that a
deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master - Architect is the heaven - gif ted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of
form, color, texture, and ornament, can build them
structurally and economically perfect. It is seldom
that any mind combines all of these attributes. It is
more seldom that to-day’s practice requires them in
any one man. To-day, one man “designs”; another
t( frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of Architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture from
the School of Engineering and to create the new College
of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now’ offer three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The Beaux -
Arts Program requires four years for completion and is
offered to students wishing to specialize in design: the
degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is given at
completion. The Engineering Program is of the same
length and is offered to men wishing to specialize in con-
struction: the degree is Bachelor of Science in Archi-
tectural Engineering. Graduate years are offered in
both programs, and upon completion, Masters’ degrees
are conferred. A Short Program covering two years is
offered to students finding it impossible or inexpedient to
devote to school work the time required for completing
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
the programs leading to degrees. Upon completion
of the Short Program a Certificate of Proficiency is
given.
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the draughting - room continuously during the morn-
ing hours from 8 to 12, and for periods of class-room
work in the afternoon. In the Senior Years and in
the Short Program the class-room requirements are
less and the time to be spent in the draughting - room
correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
e-ither of the complete programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
preparatory to the programs either in the Preparatory
School of the University or in another accredited school;
or, entrance may be by examination, at the University on
the first two days of the Pall Term or in_ Chicago at the
Offices of the University on days announced in the press
of that city.
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the routine
of the courses must be worked off privately.
Tor students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in Archi-
tecture (or in Architectural Engineering) from Notre
Dame or another School of Architecture of equal stand-
ing. The University will confer the Master’s degree on
her own graduate students not in residence at the end of
one year if that time is spent in an atelier of the first
order or in travel abroad following an approved pro-
gram of study and investigation; or at the end of not
less than two years if that time is spent in practice and
the University’s requirements are complied with.
20
BULLETIN OE THE
EQUIPMENT
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from a
small begining, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of signed drawings —
some from the Ecole de Beaux- Arts; others from archi-
tects of national reputation; photographs, engravings,
plaster models, reference books and manufacturers’
catalogues and samples. The collection, however, needs
to be increased faster than the resources of the Uni-
versity will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre
Dame can not give money, or its equivalent, for a better
purpose. The Endowment of a Traveling Fellowship,
preferably for the study of European Ecclesiastical
Architecture, will be a benefaction of the utmost value.
One thousand dollars will provide for one man for one
year.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
Candidates for the Freshman Year in either four-year
program or for the First Year of the Short Program
must be prepared to pass an examination in the branches
named below, unless they have done their preparatory
work at Notre Dame or at an accredited High
School.
English—Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in .
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
Algebra—Fundamental operations,, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to loga-
rithms, as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, nr
of an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
Geometry — Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry—Plane and Spherical.
History—A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
history, as set out in the texts used in the high schools
and academies of the country.
Geography — Physical, as much as is contained in
the ordinary text-books.
Physioeogy — Martin's Human Body, or an equiva-
lent.
Botany —Elementary.
Zoology—Elementary,
Chemistry—Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in high schools of good standing.
Physics — Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text book similar to
Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Eaboratory work is
recommended, but is not required.
Civics—Elementary.
German—A two year’s course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight German into English, and
easy English sentences into German.
French — An equivalent course in French may be
offered for the German.
Drawing—A knowledge of the use of drawing
instruments, of elementary projection drawing and
freehand.
The Program of Studies Preparatory to the Programs in Archi-
tecture is outlined and described in this Bulletin immediately
following the description of the College work.
22
BULLETIN OF THE
THE BEAUX-ARTS PROGRAM
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to design it that the student pursuing it will
have upon completion a liberal general education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural
Design and Composition. It may be undertaken by
students whose artistic intuition and temperament fit
them especially for the aesthetic side of a noble pro-
fession.
The course is built up around the work in the
draughting-room and atelier, where half of the student’s
time is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the
Freshman year with the intelligent study of the orders
and simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by
means of minor and major problems involving the plan-
ning of all classes of buildings from the simplest to the
most monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by
exercises in the various methods and media of rendering
and by a thorough course in freehand and modelling.
All instruction in planning and composing is based on
■correct principles of design.
The materials and methods of all trades and profes-
sions engaged in building operations are systematically
studied in the Construction classes throughout the four
years of the program. The writing of specifications for
each branch of labor is studied synchronously. Practical
work in the various trades is given so that the student
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	23
may know good work and thus be able to superintend
construction intelligently. These practical lessons are
supplemented by weekly inspection trips to the
important building operations and industries in the
neighborhood of the University.	.
The standard Hand-books and Mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and
numerous practical problems solved.
Working drawings and details of construction are
made under office ‘ conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the Construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that graver
problems requiring a deep knowledge of the higher
mathematics may well be left to the Architectural
Engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures are
given on Bstimates, Contracts, Taw, Business Relations,
and Professional Bthics and Practice. Architects of
high professional standing will give a number of the
lectures in this course.
The History of Architecture and of the allied Arts is
studied in a course covering three years. The method
is a combination of lectures, recitation and research.
Courses in literature, economics and philosophy cover-
ing four years complete the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism and
research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.
24
BULLETIN OB THE
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering.
- Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be
thorough, the engineer must specialize. One of his
specializations is in Architecture. His services are
needed to frame important buildings, to design their
foundations and to protect adjoining property while
they are in erection. The modern idea of education is
to progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs.
The College offers the Program in Architectural Engi-
neering because there is need of the services of the men
who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
should have a bent for mathematics and for painstaking
exact draughting.
' The program of studies differs from that of the Bcaux-
Arts Program chiefly in that a course in pure and applied
mathematics is substituted for the courses in English,,
economics and philosophy; a year in History of Con-
struction for the one in History of Art; and in that a
relatively greater amount of time, increasing each year,
is spent in Construction Design.
The Graduate Year is spent entirely in the solving of
problems of the first order in Architectural Engineering.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiency.
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class-room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year than in
either of the complete programs.
SUMMER WORK
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,
projects measured drawings or work in an Architect’s
office will be required of all students of Architecture.
EXPLANATION OF "HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one (average) hour of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the draughting-
room.
It is the intention to have the student work steadily
for four hours in -the draughting - room during the
morning session and to attend recitation periods in the
afternoon session.	,
26
BULLETIN OF THE
BEAUX-ARTS PROGRAM
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TE M	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	29	I	English	3	29	I
Hist, of Arch.	2	37	I	Hist, of Arch. Shades and ]	2	37	II
Des. Geom.	3	32	I	Shadows Perspective J	3	32	I
Construction	2	35	I	Construction	2	35	I
Freehand	2	38	I	Freehand	2	38	I
El. of Arch.	8	40	I	El. of Arch.	8	40	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English	3	29	11	English	3	29	11
Construction	2	35	11	Construction	. 2	35	11
Physics	3	34	11	Graphics	3	34	IV
Hist, of Arch.	2	37	in	Hist, of Arch.	2	38	IV
Freehand	2	38	1	Freehand 1 Modelling )	2	38 39	I, / ♦ V
Pen-and-ink	1	40	1	Water Color	1	40	II
Design	7	41	11	Design	7	4i	II
JUNIOR YEAR
Economics	4	30	1	Adv. Cons’t	4	35	hi
Adv. Cons.	4	35	hi	Heat and Vent	2	36	VI
Sanitation	c	36	V	Electricity	1	36	VII ’
				Theory Design	1	4i	V
Freehand	2	38	11	Freehand {	4	38	II, III
*				Modelling J		39	V
Design	8	4i	in	Design	8	4i	III
SENIOR YEAR
Ethics History of Art Freehand Design	4 2 2 12	30 38 39 4i	1 V IV IV	Sociology Business Re-'j lations and 1 Professional f Ethics History of Art Freehand Thesis Design	4 2 I 2 11	30 37 38 39 4i	11 I V IV IV
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	30	I	Anal. Geom.	5	31	II
Des. Geom.	3	32	I	Shades Shad-J ows Persp’t’eJ	3	32	I
Construction	2	35	I	Construction	2	35	I
Freehand	2	38	I	Freehand	2	38	I
El. of Arch.	8	40	I	El. of Arch.	8	40	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	31	hi	Calculus	5-	3i	IV, V
Construction	2	35	11	Construction	2	35	11
Physics	3	34	11	Graphics	- 3	34	IV
Freehand	2	38	1	Freehand	2	38	I
Pen-and-ink	1	40	1	Water Color	1	40	II
Design	7	4i	11	Design	1	41	if
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh.	5	33	VIII	Anal. Meeh. . Meeh’s of Mat.	•' 2 : 3	33 33	VIII X
Adv. Cons.	2	35	in	Adv. Cons.	2	35	in
Sanitation	2"	36	V	Heat. & Vent.	2	36-	*vr
Hist, of Arch.	2	37	I	Electricity	1	36	VII
Freehand	I	38	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	37	ii-
Design	8	4i	III	Design	8	4i	hi
SENIOR YEAR
Architectural Engineering	5	36	IV	Architectural- Engineering	5	36	IV
Hist, of Arch.	2	37	hi	Business Rela-	2	37	1
Freehand	1	39	in	tion Profes- sional Ethics Hist, of Arch.	2	38	VI
Structural Design		12	4i	IV	Design-Thesis	11	4i	IV
* 28
BULLETIN OF THE
SHORT PROGRAM
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Descriptive Geometry	3	32	I	Shades and Shadows j-	3	32	I
Construction History of Architecture Freehand	2 2 2	35 37 38	I I I	Perspective J Construction History of Architecture	2 2	35 37	I II
Elements of Architecture	II	40	I	Freehand 1 Modelling j El. of Arch. ( Design J	2 11	38 39 40 41	I, V I II
SECOND YEAR
Construction Sanitation	2	35 36	11 v	Construction Heating and	2 2	35 36	11 VI
History of Architecture	2	37	in	Ventilation Graph. Statics	3	34	IV
Physics	3	34	11	Electricity	1	36	1
Freehand	4	38	11	Theory Design	1	4i	
Pen-and-ink	1	40	1	Freehand	2	38	11
Design	6	41 ■	11	Water Color	1	40	11
				Design	8	4i	11
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
COURSES IN ENGLISH
I.
Qa) Prose Forms—Special treatment of Exposition
and Argumentation. Genung's Working Principles of
Rhetoric, Part II. Frequent practice in writing essays.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
(#) Heydrich' s How to Study Literature, with prac-
tical exercises in analysis of literary forms.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(F) Literature—Higginson and Boyntori s. In this
course the student acquires a good knowledge of the con-
tents of American literature. The biography of men of
letters is also a part of this course.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
(d} Lyric Poetry —The technique is carefully laid
down and choice specimens of lyric poetry are read
critically in class. There is much required reading.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
(<2) Prose Forms — Special study of the Novel and
the Short Story. The development of the novel is care-
fully studied, and its kinship with other forms of narra-
tive is pointed out. Frequent practice in writing.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(b~) Literature—The developement of English
Literature is studied, minute attention being given to
great periods.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(r) The Sonnet—Technique and analysis of famous
sonnets.
[One hour a week for one term.]
30
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN POLITICAL SCIENCE
I.
(«) The Elements of Economics, viz.:—Land,
Human Exertions and Capital; Value, Money and
Credit; Rent, Interest, Profit and Wages; and Popula-
tion and Consumption.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
The Elements of Sociology — Lectures, readings,
and examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
COURSE IN PHILOSOPHY
I.
(«) Ethics—The theory of Morals, with special
reference to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(£) Outlines of the History of Philosophy—
Turners History of Philosophy.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN PURE MATHEMATICS.
I.
Algebra—This course includes a study of the binom-
ial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
thorough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation, detached coefficients, surd and ’ imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
equations, Des Cartes’ and and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s
theorem; Horner’s method; roots of complex number
and trigonometric solution of cubic equations.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. .	31
II.
Analytic Geometry—This course includes a study
of the point and right line; conic sections, their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; higher plane
curves, equations of the third degree; different systems
of coordinates; transformation of coordinates; spirals;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces
of revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric
surfaces and supplementary propositions.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
-	III.
Calculus, Differential—This course as also course
IV., is designed to meet the requirements of Bngineering
students. It includes a study of the methods for the
differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions, suc-
cessive differentiation, and differential coefficients; treat-
ment of implicit and compound functions; expansion of
functions; indeterminate forms; partial differential coef-
ficients of the first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature; radius of curvature; envelopes; singular
points of curves, maxima and minima of functions of one
independent variable, and of several independent vari-
ables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane areas
surfaces and volumes of revolution.
[Five hours a week for one term ]
IV.	-
Calculus, integral—Integration of elementary
forms and of rational fractions; integration by rationali-
zation and by parts; successive integration; multiple
integrals; definite integrals, limits of integration; double
integration applied to plane areas; rectification of plane
32
BULLETIN OF THE
curves; quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revo-
lution ; surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equa-
tion of a curve. This course is supplemented by numer-
ous exercises and examples.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Differential Equations—An elementary course for
engineering students, supplementary to the course of
Integral Calculus. It embraces: equations of the first
order and first degree; equations of the first order,
but not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear
equations with constant coefficients; special forms of
equations with higher orders. Numerous applications
to Mechanics and Physics are introduced during the
course.
COURSES IN APPLIED MATHEMATICS
I.
(a) Descriptive Geometry—In this course are
considered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, and warped surfaces; problems relating
to tangent planes, to single curved, double curved and
warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces by planes;
tangencies, development of surfaces. Numerous prac-
tical problems and exercises requiring the application
of the principles of Descriptive Geometry, are added by
the instructor.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(#) Shades and Shadows, Perspective—In this
course the student is taught to cast conventional shades
and shadows as they are used in architectural rendering,
and to make perspective drawings by the most effective
and rapid methods. Numerous practical problems are
given in shades and shadows. For practice in perspec-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
33
tive drawing students are required to make perspectives
of all .their projects and to sketch in perspective in their
third and fourth years. The use of all the different
media is required for rendering — charcoal, chalk, pencil,
India ink in flat and graded washes, and water-color.
The instruction in perspective is practical rather
than theoretical. All of the standard works are in
the Reference Library. Students in classes of not
less than five, so electing, may study theory
exhaustively.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Mechanics—The aim of this course is to
prepare students of Engineering for the study of the
courses of Applied Mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of Statics, Kine-
matics, and Kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the Engineer-
ing students to pursue the technical and practical
branches of their respective courses. Some of the topics
considered in this course are: work, energy, conserva-
tion of energy; power, composition and resolution of
forces, center of gravity, center of mass, moment of
inertia, acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of
friction, etc.
[Rive hours a week for first term.]
[Two hours a week for second term.]
III.
Mechanics of Materials—This course is intended
to meet the requirements of Engineering students and
to prepare them by a study of the action and effect of
forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study, according to
34	BULLETIN OF THE
the latest and most approved methods, of tension and
its effect on materials, compression, theories of flexure
and rupture from transverse stress, shearing stress,
transverse strength, beams of uniform resistance,
various forms and loaded in any manner, design and
strength of beams and columns, effect of long continued
stresses, factor of safety and working stresses, strength
of pipes and cylinders, theory and practice of rivet-
ing, torsion, transmission of power by shafts, con-
tinuous girders, equation of curves of deflection,
theorem of three moments, moment at any support,
resilience of the of materials, apparent stresses and true
stresses, etc.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Graphic Statics — In this course the student is
tought to determine stresses by graphical methods,
centers of gravity, moments of inertia, shear and bend-
ing moments of beams under all conditions of loading
are determined by the application of the principles of
the force and equilibrium polygons. Stresses in trusses
and built up girders, in masonry arches and domed
■structures are determined graphically. Methods of
determining appropriate sections are taught. Numerous
practical problems are given.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
COURSE IN PHYSICS
I.
General Physics — Mathematical principles are
applied to physical phenomena. Special attention is
paid to accuracy in the mathematical work and in the
statements of the principles involved. Lectures and
recitations.
o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
35
COURSES IN CONSTRUCTION
I. AND II.
Construction—In these courses the student obtains
a thorough knowledge of the materials and methods of
the mason’s, carpenter’s, metal worker’s and painter’s
trades. Bach trade is considered separately, and at con-
clusion an exhaustive study of specification writing and
methods of estimating for it is made. The University
constantly furnishes employment to a large force of
trained mechanics who will give personal lessons to the
student in all branches of these trades. Inspection visits
are made weekly, as a supplementary exercise in super-
intendence, to important building operations in the
neighborhood. Detail drawings of constructive methods
are made exactly as in an Architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each
student is required to stake out on the campus one of
his projects and to furnish all levels required by the
builder in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of
the architect’s level and compass.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Advanced Construction—In this course the student
studies the construction and design of steel framing,
fireproofing of all forms, reinforced concrete, footings
and foundations.
Working drawings for one of the student’s projects
are made. Bspecial care and accuracy are demanded
in the preparation of the framing plans and details.
This work is traced and blue-printed by Freshmen
students.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
^6	BULLETIN OF THE
kJ
IV.
Architectural Engineering-—A course in which
are solved graphically and analytically more com-
plicated problems in structural design and applied
mechanics, with especial study of reinforced
concrete.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Sanitation—This study is taught from text-book
and embraces sanitary engineering pertaining to build-
ings, as follows: sewerage, water supply, lighting and
ventilation, plumbing work, subsoil drainage, dry foun-
dation walls and cellars; also drawings of plumbing
systems and fixtures.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Heating and Ventilation—This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam,
etc.,—are carefully examined and studied. The radia-
tion of heat from surfaces, the different systems of
piping, condition of air as to moisture, amount of air
required, causes and best means adopted to secure
pure air; the necessity of good ventilation and
the latest approved methods for securing this all
important feature are some of the topics considered in
this study.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Electricity—A course of lectures and recitations,
on the general theory of electricity and magnetism and
its application to practical work, as follows : Setting up
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	37
and testing primary and secondary batteries, systems of
call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire and
burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switch-
boards and accessories, arc and incandescent lighting
systems, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
COURSE IN BUSINESS RELATIONS
This course consists of lectures in which are given
descriptions of a system of book-keeping suited to the
needs of an architect’s business, a system of building
accounts, filing system for catalogues and prints, a card-
index system for prints and general information; of
forms for agreements with clients, for proposals and
acceptances, for contracts and bonds, and for certifi-
cates ; and the laws affecting clients, contractors and
architects; and the rules of professional ethics in private
practice, competitions and municipal affairs.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN HISTORY
I, II AND III.
History of Architecture — This course comprises
a study of the early beginnings, growth and development
of architectural styles. It includes ethnography as
applied to architectural art; Ancient Architecture;
Egyptian Architecture ; Assyrian Architecture ; Grecian
Architecture; Etruscan , Roman and Sassanian Archi-
tecture; Christian Architecture in France, Belgium and
Holland, Germany, Scandinavia, England, Spain and
Portugal, and Italy; Saracenic and Ancient American
Architecture; Byzantine Architecture.
[Two hours a week for three terms. ]
38
BULLETIN OF THE
IV.
History of Ornament — A study of the origin
and evolution of ornament and the application of the
same together with exercises in motive.
[Two hours a week for one term J
V.
History of Allied Arts—A brief study of the
field of Art with especial reference to Sculpture, Metal
Working, Mural Painting, Stained glass aud Mosaic,
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
History of Construction—A critical study of the
types of construction of the ancient, medieval and
modern builders, tracing the relation of the type to the
problem and the development of the style from the
type.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN FREEHAND AND MODELLING
I AND II. ,
(a)	Elementary Freehand—Drawing from casts
of ornaments purely geometrical, such as mold-
ings, ovoloes, dentils, etc. Sketching from simple
objects.	•	*
(k)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves
and flowers. Sketching from nature of leaves and
flowers.
(k)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals', bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on per-
spective, direction of the principal lines in relation to the
horizon. Elementary notions on the five orders of
architecture.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
(V) Drawing from casts of the human figure: hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
(a) Antique Ceass—Drawing from the antique of
heads and busts. Still life drawing. Sketches of land-
scapes from nature. Selection of a subject. Composi-
tion in landscape. Applications of perspective.
(£) Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketch-
ing from the costumed model. Still life in water
colors.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Life Ceass — Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science -
Hall.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
ModEEING—One entire week in the spring terms of
the Sophomore, Junior and Senior years is devoted to
modelling in clay. The objects modelled are archi-
tectural forms, copied from the cast or made from the
student’s drawings of his own work, as hi# progress and
ability may warrant.
Sketch Ceass — One hour a week. The students
have themselves an organization, “The Crayon Club,”
the object of which is to sketch college scenes and to do
illustrative work; these sketches are brought into class
and criticized.
All students of the Courses in Architecture are required to
attend the sessions of the sketch class.
40
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN RENDERING
' I.
Pen and Ink—Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art; fol-
lowed by rendering from photographs and of original
drawings.
II.
Water Color — The rendering of water color draw-
ings, including perspectives :—casting of shadows, color
treatment of buildings, and handling of foreground and
background.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
While the catalogued time for the Courses in Rendering is one
hour a week for two terms, for better results the work will be
given in two eighteen-hour periods (thirty-six actual hours) in
each term.
Practice in rendering is continued throughout the entire length
of the courses.
COURSES IN DESIGN
I.
The Elements of Architecture—This course is a
study of the Rive Orders of Architecture and is given by
lectures, recitations and drawing. The study embraces
a thorough analysis of each order, in which the princi-
pal and distinguishing features of each are clearly shown
and comparisons made. Also a study in detail of the *
forms and proportions characterizing each is made in the
class room. Problems pertaining to the orders are given
in the Drawing Room, and detail drawings and colorings
made.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	41
II., III. AND IV.
Design — The study, of problems in architectural
design, embodying the subjects of composition and form.
This course expands from Elementary Design (second
year) to Advanced Design and Thesis Work (fourth
year), and includes the handling of design in monu-
mental structures, and its application to modern build-
ings, such as hospitals, theaters, municipal buildings,
libraries, churches, etc.
The program for the second year requires the execu-
tion of nine minor, (one day), and nine major problems ;
that for the third year of nine minor and six major
problems; that for the fourth year of four minor and
three major problems and the thesis.
Students of the Engineering Program will be given
Engineering problems exclusively beginning with the
second term of the third year.
[Seven, eight and ^twelve hours a week,
respectively, for three years.]
Theory of Design—A thorough study of the princi-
ples of planning and proportion supplemented by study
of the perfection and faults of the world’s most famous
buildings.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
Thesis — All of the time for design during the second
term of the last year is devoted to the preparation of the
graduating thesis. The subject in each case is selected
by the Professor of Design or of Construction.
PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
44
BULLETIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. MICHAEL A. QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
ENGLISH AND MATHEMATICS.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
ENGLISH.
Rev. TIMOTHY MURPHY, C. S.. C.,
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE.
.rev. GEORGE MARR, C, S. C.,
MATHEMATICS.
WILLIAM L. BENITZ, M. E-, E. E.,
MATHEMATICS.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
MATHEMATICS.
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B.,
civics.
CHARLBS PETERSEN, A. M.
GERMAN.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
45
ALPHABUS B. REYNOLDS, A. B.,
ENGLISH.
THOMAS J. DEHEY, A. B.,
FRENCH.
JOHN B. RENO, A. M., LL- B.,
ENGLISH.
JOHN WORDEN, B. S.,
DRAWING.
GALLITZEN A. EARABAUGH, A. B.,
HISTORY.
CLARENCE J. KENNEDY, B. S.,
PHYSIOLOGY, ZOOLOGY, BOTANY.
ARTHUR PUNK, B. S.,
chemistry and physics.
WALTER B. HARRINGTON, Ph. D.,
history.
erederick w. mckinley, a. b.,
. MATHEMATICS.
ERANK McGUANE, B. S.,
MATHEMATICS.
46
BULLETIN OF THE
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Preparatory
School under the same general government as the
Colleges, but having its own special corps of instructors.
The schedules of studies are arranged to meet the need
of thorough preparation for collegiate work, and embrace
courses which, while giving as wide an education as can
be obtained in the very best High Schools, prepare
students directly for the group of studies they may elect
when entering the Freshman year. Five different
programs of instruction are offered to students, each
containing such special courses as directly meet the
needs of the fifteen college groups, while all embrace
common subjects which are indispensibly necessary in
acquiring a fairly liberal education. The period of
instruction covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Prepara-
tory School are most complete. The laboratories are
extensive and fully supplied with the latest improved
appliances. The classes pursuing any subject are divided
into sections, each containing a limited number of
students. The sections are purposely limited in order
-that each student may receive close attention from the
instructor in every recitation and laboratory period.
Fxaminations for admission are held at the opening of
the School in September and embrace the subjects com-
pleted in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pagees 17 and 18. The following fees are
special to the Preparatory School;
LABORATORY FEES
Science C.— Elementary Botany................$2 50
Science D.— Elementary Zoclogy............. 2.50
Science E.—Elementary Chemistry............ 5.00
Science F.— Elementary Physics............. 5.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
47
PROGRAM OF STUDIES PREPARATORY TO THE
PROGRAMS IN THE COLLEGE OF
ARCHITECTURE
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	3	A	History	n O	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History	3	B	History	3	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German	5	A	German	5	A
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
History	3	C	History	3	C
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
German	3	B	German	3	B
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	G	Mathematics	5	H
Drawing	6	A & B	Drawing	6	C
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
French may be substituted for German in the 3rd and 4th years.
48
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES IN ENGLISH
A.
(&) Meiklejohn s Art of Writing English, with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(£) The elements of versification. Scansion, one hour
a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Memory
work.
(k) Required reading: Robinson Crusoe, * Evange-
line, Treasure Island, Snow-Bound, *The Sketch
Book, *The Vision of Sir Launfal, Poe's Tales, Poes
Poems, * Julius Caesar, *The Merchant of Venice.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read,)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
(«) Hili's Principles of Rhetoric. Part I., with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b} The simpler verse-forms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c") Required reading: Ivanhoe, *The Lady of the
Lake, *The Vicar of Wakefield, *The Ancient Mariner,
The Courtship of Miles Standish, * Silas Marner, *The
Princess, * Macbeth, *As You Like It.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
(6?) Hili's Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with daily
exercises in class. Weekly theme first^term ; fortnightly
essay second term.
(£) Verse-forms continued. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
49
(r) Required reading: * Sir Roger de Coverly, * Mac-
■aulay's Essay on Addison, *The Golden Treasury of
English Lyrics, * Macaulay's Essay on Milton, * Milton's
Minor Poems, * A Midsummer Night’s Dream, * Burke's
Speech on the Conciliation of America, * Webster's
Bunker Hill Oration, * Lincoln's Gettysburg Oration,
*King Lear.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
3B
others read.)
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
D.
(a)	Genung's The Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part I., with daily exercises in class. Fortnightly essay
first term; monthly essay second term.
(6)	Verse-forms concluded. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(6-) Required reading: The House of the Seven
Gables, *The Idyll’s of the King, Selections from Para-
dise Lost, Cary's Dante, * Gates' Selection from Newman,
^The Dream of Gerontius, Pope's Homer, *The
Tempest, Aubrey de Vere's Poems, * Hamlet.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read )
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN MATHEMATICS
’	A.
Algebra—This course for beginnersin Algebra in eludes
a study of the primary fundamental principles necessary
to the courses which follow. The subjects dwelt upon
in particular are Factoring, Highest Common Factor
and Least Common Multiple, which are afterwards
applied in their relation to Fractions and the reduction
of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible, concrete
50
BULLETIN OF THE
examples of their applications to kindred scientific sub-
jects are applied by the teacher.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B*
Algebra—In this course the study of Equations is-
begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Fractional Equations, Systems of Simultane-
ous Equations, Involution, Evolution, Radicals and
Exponents complete the course which is supplemented
wherever possible with problems of practical application.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Algebra—This course begins with Quadratic Equa-
tions, Pure and Affected, followed by Systems of Simul-
taneous Quadratic Equations and those forms of Radical
Equations of Higher Degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and Proportion, Indetermi-
nate Equations, Surds, Imaginaries, Inequalities, the
Progressions and the Binomial Theorem finish the work
in this course. As in the preceding courses, special
stress is placed upon the application of the theory to
such examples as will show its application to elementary
scientific subjects.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Geometry—This subject is completed as far as the
end of Plane Geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original proposi-
tions. The habit of independent thinking is cultivated
to some extent by the solution of special problems of
concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation of the
process studied to practical examples.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	51
K
Geometry—The study of Solid Geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that of
the preceding term. Planes, Solid Angles, Polyhedrons,
the Cylinder Cone and Sphere are all studied in detail
and the solution of original exercises and propositions of
application is made a feature of the course.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Algebra and Geometry—This course which con-
tinues through one scholastic year is designed especially
for those students who wish to take up the study of
Engineering. As this necessitates a thorough ground
work in mathematics, the first half of the year is given
to a review of Algebra and Geometry, three hours and
two hours per week respectively. The most important
theorems and subjects are again studied and a more
comprehensive view of the subject is attained in the-
generalizing of many theorems and extending the range
of others.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Algebra and Geometry—The work of this term
is entirely given up to an elementary exposition of the-
application of mathematics to scientific problems and to
analysis. In lectures and class work actual problems-
representing existing and practical conditions will be-
taken up, and the derivation of approximate formulae-
and an elementary study of curves derived from experi-
ment are included.
[ Five hours a week for one term.]
52
BULLETIN OF THE
Trigonometery—A half year is given to this subject
which includes both Plane and Spherical Trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
elementary text-books. Special attention is given to
■Goniometry on account of its application to Calculus,
and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly
.supplied.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
COURSES IN HISTORY
A.	•
Ancient History—Meyers' “Ancient History”
The Eastern Nations. The History of Greece and of the
Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The Estab-
lishment of the Empire, and the rise of Christianity.
The Romano - German or Transition Age.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
* B.
Medieval History—Meyers' “Medieval History.”
The Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mohammedanism
and the Saracen Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire. The
Age of Revival. TheEmpire and thePapacy. The Great
Schism and the rise of the Nations of Modern Europe.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
C.
Modern History—Fisher’s “Outlines of History.”
The Renaissance. The Age of Discovery. The Protes-
tant Reformation. The Power of Spain. The Strifes of
France with Spain and Germany. The Age of Louis
XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish and
Austrian Successions. The Empire of England. The
American Revolution. The French Revolution and the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
53-
Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the Spirit of
Nationality. The formation of Germany and Italy.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN SCIENCE.
A.
Physical Geography—An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the-
world about him. The various types of plant and animal
life together with topographical and climatic conditions-
will be considered.
[Rive hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology — Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of the-
bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene of
muscles. The digestive, circulatory and excretory
systems demonstrated by models and charts. The
anatomy and structure of the nervous system and simple-
experiments on the same.
[Rive hours a week for one term.]
C.
Botany — This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants^
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and
seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant life
and their classification is also given.
[Rive hours a week for one term.]
D.
Zoology — This course includes an introduction to
the subject with studies of representative forms and.
^4	BULLETIN OF THE
their classification in the different groups of the animal
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
(a) Elementary chemistry—An introductory
■course of experimental lectures on familiar subjects
such as water, the air and its constituents, common
salt, etc., leading up to discussions of the more im-
portant elements and their properties, and the funda-
mental laws and phenomena of chemistry.
[ Three hours a week for one year. ]
(b} Experimental Chemistry—A laboratory
course to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises
to be performed by each student, and having as their
main object the cultivation of the student’s powers of
observation and faculty of inductive reasoning. These
•exercises comprise a study of the principal metallic ele-
ments, including their preparation, properties and more
familiar compounds. The directions for each experi-
ment are made as brief as possible, the observation of
facts and the drawing of correct conclusions therefrom
being left, so far as the nature of the experiment will
permit, to the pupil.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
Elementary Physics—Instruction in elementary
physics is given by lectures and recitations in which the
general laws of mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics,
•electricity and magnetism are presented. The course is
intended to meet the needs of those who desire a general
knowledge of the subject as well as to lay the founda-
1
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
55
tions for advanced work. Particular attention is paid
to the correct statement of principles so that in his
advanced work the student will have nothing to unlearn
or relearn.	-
[Three hours a week for one year.]
The Laboratory Work of this course consists of a
series of experiments which verify and apply practically
the fundamental principles of physics. The student
also receives instruction in the use and careful handling
•of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct deduc-
tion of results. Neat and concise reports of all experi-
ments are kept by each student and form the basis for
the grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
COURSE IN CIVIL GOVERNMENT
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended to
give the student some knowledge of the general princi-
ples of government and of the American Constitution.
The subject begins by defining government; then is con-
sidered the object and necessity of government; origin of
civil society; the principle of suffrage; different forms
of government defined and compared; theories of repre-
sentation. These topics necessarily are treated briefly,
as the principal part of the course consists of a study of
the Colonial government, the Articles of Confederation
and their defects, the formation of the Constitution and
its ’ adoption. The study further comprises a critical
analysis of' each article and section of the American
^Constitution, thus enabling the student to acquire a clear
5$
BULLETIN OF THE
conception of the division of powers of the National.
Government and the duties and responsibilities of each,
department.
[Two hours a week for one year.]
COURSES IN GERMAN
Grammar — Joynes - Meissner, Part I. Translation
from German into Bnglish of simple prose; translation
of Bnglish exercises into German. Reading of short,
stories and selections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar—Joynes - Meissner, Part II. Translation’,
into German of narrative prose and selections from,
history. Sight reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorethea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff..
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN FRENCH
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs ; the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials-
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Reading three of the following: Houghton"s French by
Reading; La Tache du Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheureuse, Guerber;-
Sans Famille, Malot; Supers" Readings from French
History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	57
B.
Advanced Grammar and Composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Dictations and conversations are
added on practical topics, and careful translation made
of two or three of the following works: Le Voyage de
M. Perrichon, Labiche ; Roman d’un Jeune Homme
Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables choisies, La Fontaine; De Medecin
Malgre Lui, Moliere; Le Cid, Corneille; Bsther, Racine;
Pages oubliees de Chateaubriand; La Question d’ Argent,
Dumas; Standard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
COURSES IN DRAWING
A. AND B.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
Advanced work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which
afford the study of light and shade.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
C.
This work embraces the principles of projection,
methods of shop - drawing, tinting, tracing, blue-print-
ing, line - shading and the preparation of working draw-
ings of complete machines.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no
need of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without
endowment, and its work is seriously hampered because
it has no resources except the fees of students. There
are two scholarships and the interest from these founda-
tions is used in educating and boarding two students.
There were in 1901 1,452 Cathode students in 6 per
centum of the non-Catholic colleges of America, and
very many of these will lose their faith, and all will be
weakened in that faith, because our people look upon
collegiate institutions as the property of private corpora-
tions which are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks for scholarships for boys who can
not pay the expense of education, and who, therefore', are
obliged to go to non - Catholic colleges to the detriment
of their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and
board a student as long as the University exists. As one
bursar is graduated another can take his place. The
founder of the scholarship, of course, always has the
privilege of appointing the student.
Foundations for Scholarships are a very pressing need.
We lack money for a library building, and for two
more dwelling halls like Sorin Hall.
There is no library Fund for the purchase of new
books.
The names of the benefactors will be given to all
foundations.
BEQUESTS SHOULD BE MADE IN THIS FORM:
Wi, • ” *
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DA MENU LAC
I give, devise, and bequeath to the UNIVERSITY
OF .NOTRE DAME DU LAC, an institution incor-
porated under the laws of the State of Indiana, and
located at Notre Dame, Indiana..._.__________
BIRD’S-EYE VIEW OF UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Is a 28-page paper devoted to the interests of the stu-
dents and published by them every week during term
time. The journal is in the hands of a student board of
editors and students do all the writing for it. Work
done for The Scholastic is regarded as supplementary to
the theoretical work of the English courses; hence the
character of the articles,—essays on literary subjects,
biographical sketches, short stories, exercises in verse,
book-reviews, etc. As contributors are expected to pre-
pare their own copy for the press and to do their own
proof-reading, they gain no small amount of practical
experience.
Although The Scholastic is published chiefly for the
sake of the students attending the University, their
parents and all former students will see matters of interest
in its columns. Reports of the popular lecture course and
of events happening at Notre Dame and other colleges,
personal notices, athletic notes, reviews of the work
done in the debating and in the classes, find place in
the paper and keep parents and others informed about
matters that concern their children and friends.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50 per
annum.
Address all commuications to
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.