
Series III.
Number II.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
H 3 US
LAW DEPARTMENT
1907-1908
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
October, 1907
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905.
LAW FACULTY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT OE THE UNIVERSITY.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D.,
DEAN OE UAW FACUETY.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LL. D.,
PROFESSOR OF LAW.
LUCIUS HUBBARD, LL. D.,
PROFESSOR OF LAW.
ANDREW ANDERSON,
PROFESSOR OF LAW. .
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B.,
INSTRUCTOR IN LAW.
EDWARD H. SCHWAB, LL. M.,
instructor in law.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
eecturer on ethics and naturae eaw.
LAW DEPARTMENT
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame has earned a prom-
inent place among the leading educational institutions of
the country. It was incorporated sixty-three years ago,
under the laws of Indiana. Its charter empowers it to
teach all preparatory, collegiate and university branches,
and confer the degrees and honors appropriate to evidence
their satisfactory completion. These degrees represent
as high a standard of educational equipment as those of
any other American university.
The regular attendance of students numbers between
800 and 900. They are distributed among the several
halls of the University, as St. Edward’s, St. Joseph’s,
Carroll, Brownson, Corby, Sorin and the Seminary. By
this arrangement it has been found practicable to receive
and instruct students of ages varying from early boyhood
to thirty-five or forty years. The attendance is com-
posed exclusively of males. Though conducted under
Catholic auspices, yet there is no prohibition or restric-
tion upon the matriculation and attendance of non-
Catholics. These comprise at times a fifth or more of
the student body. But the same general rules of disci-
pline regarding respectful attention and proper deport-
ment at religious services are applicable alike to all.
THE GROUNDS
immediately tributary to the University comprise approxi-
mately 900 acres. They adjoin the corporate limits of
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
South Bend on the north, and extend almost to the
Michigan boundary. South Bend is a well known and
flourishing city. Its population is about 50,000. It is
the seat of St. Joseph county, 87 miles from Chicago,
and accessible by rail from all parts of the United States.
The city of Niles, on the north, is only 10 miles distant,
and a trolley line from it passes through the University
grounds. In addition to the extensive area of land
belonging to the University in its immediate vacinity, it
owns and conducts in the neighboring township to the
east a large farm, embracing in meadow, groves and
cultivated fields, nearly 2,000 acres. Prom it come quite
largely the milk, vegetables and other food supplies
required for the students, thus insuring freshness and
wholesomeness in their meat and drink.
The grounds at Notre Dame are famous for their
beauty and attractiveness. The lakes, groves and river;
the meadows and cultivated fields; the orchards and flower-
bedecked parks and gardens, combine to spread out before
the appreciative vision a prospect singularly picturesque,
beautiful and charming.
THE UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
The main and ancillary buildings of the University,
including the various halls, telephone and express offices,
a store and post-office, are about twenty in number.
They are generally of large size, and conform to the
most approved architectural designs and sanitary require-
ments. Due measurably to this fact, as may be pre-
sumed, the healthfulness of Notre Dame can justly be
considered exceptional. But comparatively few of its
inmates are compelled even in the most trying seasons to
suspend work and have their names entered on the sick
list. For such, however, there is an infirmary on the
IyAW DEPARTMENT
5
premises, and medical services can there be secured,
together with the devoted care of experienced and highly
qualified sisters.
The University is situated about two miles north of
the business center of South Bend, and almost a mile
from its nearest suburb. A trolley line, however, runs
directly from the heart of the city to Notre Dame. Cars
run each way every 15 minutes. Thus the attendance of
town students at the college is greatly facilitated. Yet
it is advisable when practicable for young men to board
lodge and live at the University. They save time
by doing so and escape the distractions incident to
city life. In living at the college, too, they more readily
conform to
THE RULES OF DISCIPLINE
in force at Notre Dame — rules deemed essential to best
results in educational work and the formation of sturdy
and manly character. These rules contemplate not only
close attention to school duties during the year, but also
immunity from the distractions and temptations, amuse-
ments and social claims of city life. The regular period
of the school year is too valuable to be lost to any
marked extent in such trifles.
The University has long been noted for thoroughness
in work and effectiveness in discipline, as tending to the
utilization of time and the fixing of habits of diligence
and punctuality. A sense of duty is involved in the
maintenance of this reputation. Students are expected
to be regular in attendance at class and diligent and
prompt in discharging the duties devolving upon them.
They are expected to take a practical view of educational
work and to bear in mind that the'few years devoted to
it are to direct and influence all the subsequent years of
their lives.-	'
6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
All students matriculated at Notre Dame, no matter
for what course, stand primarily on the same footing.
The halls to which they are assigned indicate in a gen-
eral way their respective ages and educational standing,
although the records of entry in the books of the Uni-
versity are the source of original and controlling evidence
in the matter. They reside during the academic year in
comfortable quarters within the precincts of the Uni-
versity; share together food of th'e same kind in the refec-
tories; have the same service at meals and in the use of
light and heat, as well as in washing and mending; some
sleep in dormitories and others in private rooms, accord-
ing to their standing in scolarship and preliminary arrange-
ments; study in common, each at his own desk, whether
in the large study halls or private rooms, and meet for
class-work in their respective recitation rooms, as called
hourly by the signal bells. In short, they dwell together,
meeting for recitation in class, for their meals in the
refectories, and for necessary recreation and healthful
exercise in the great gymnasium or on the campus.
Brought thus daily into close companionship, they become
in time virtually the same as members of one great
family, and a feeling of deep, unselfish and life-abiding
friendship is often awakened among kindred spirits.
Everything needed can be had at the University, and
seldom does occasion arise to visit the neighboring town.
Visits to it are not favored. This is not alone in the
interest of economy and for the avoidance of habits of
extravagance and improvidence, but also to guard against
loss of time and possible exposure to temptation. It is
sought under the rules of discipline at Notre Dame to
prohibit or avoid things manifestly tending to undermine
or make against the growth of moral worth and manly
character. It is almost superfluous to state consequently
that drunkenness or immorality is considered ground for
LAW DEPARTMENT	7
expulsion and that the use of intoxicating liquors is
strictly prohibited.
. The style of living at Notre Dame is simple and
unostentatious. It is favorable to the formation of habits
of thrift and frugality. Distinctions between the rich
and the poor are discountenanced. No line of demarca-
tion between them is ever knowingly permitted to be
drawn. The highest standard of excellence is measured
by scholarship and honorable deportment. Those
crowned with the brightest laurels of the University are
those who worthily attain to that laudable standard,
whether they be rich or poor.
This preliminary sketch may be deemed pertinent, if
not indespensable, before proceeding to deal specifically
with the
LAW DEPARTMENT,
for its students are inmates of the University, authorized
to attend any of the collegiate or other classes, subject to
the rules of discipline prescribed for collegiate students
and entitled to equal rights and privileges.
In 1869 the law course was established in a modest
way as a separate curriculum during the presidency of
the late Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C. It was
reorganized 1884 by the late Rev. Thomas E. Walsh, C.
S. C., who was then president of the University. The
present Dean was called from Chicago, where he was
actively engaged in the practice of law, and placed in
charge of it. The need of making another start or
beginning the work anew soon became manifest. Atten-
tion was first given to securing text-books and reports
sufficient to form the nucleus of a law library. In the
following year began a gradual but steady increase in
the number of students. Substantial improvements
were made from time to time and new books added to
8
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
the library, as circumstances seemed to warrant. Never-
theless, nothing was done in the way of exploitation, and
for several years the course was not even advertised, for
it was feared that in range of study and equipment it
might seem presumptuous to invite comparison with the
older and larger institutions. It is well known that
these are advertised mainly through the expressed good
will and personal recommendations of their students and
graduates, but Notre Dame lacked this advantage on
account of the comparative paucity of such heralds and
representatives. As time passed, however, these went
forth in yearly increasing number and proved to be
zealous missionaries in their praise of the work done in
the law course. They found additional assurance of its
thoroughness in the almost uniform success that attended
them in examinations for admission to the bar in the
various states in which they resided or to which they
went for the purpose of establishing new domiciles.
They observed with even greater confidence in their
work of preparation that graduates of some of the most
noted law schools failed in the same examinations. They
were not unfrequently complimented by judges and
members of the examining boards upon the accuracy
and resourcefulness of their legal knowlege. The pub-
licity of such facts, though slowly spreading, has served
to attract here for the study of law a steadily increasing
number of industrious and capable young men.
Under the influence largely of the American Bar
Association, the period now commonly prescribed for the
study of law is three years. This reform was greatly
needed, and it is gratifying that the response to the call
for it has been so prompt and so general. It means the
elimination from the profession of persons unfitted to
follow or engage in its practice. It means a higher stand-
ard of professional honor and efficiency. Notre Dame
LAW DLPARTM^NT
9
has sought to keep steady pace with the progress made
in this direction. It aims to do its full share to elevate
to the highest plane practicable the study and practice of
the law. Considerations of public good and safety so
demand, and it endeavors not to be second to any other
institution in meeting the most exacting test of this salu-
tary requirement. That its work in this respect has
been followed by fruition is shown not only by the records
of its students in examinations, but also by the fact that
many' of them immediately afterward enter successfully
on the practice of the profession, without previous pro-
bation or experience in the offices of other lawyers. It
is also noticeable that they adhere to and follow the
practice of the profession in larger proportion than the
graduates of other institutions.
QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION
In some law schools the requirements for matricula-
tion are of an order so high as to be prohibitory upon the
great mass of young men. Students are not received as
candidates for diplomas unless previously graduated by
some college of approved standing.
They must have received degrees evidencing the com-
pletion of some of the collegiate courses. Were this rule
in general effect, all but a favored few would be shut out
of the legal profession. The institutions in which it
obtains may judge for themselves as to its operation. It
may be assumed, however, that it has proved satisfactory
to them, for otherwise it would probably have been modi-
fied or discontinued. In fact, it is hardly open to ques-
tion that, generally speaking, a student whose mind has
been trained and disciplined by years of study in a col-
lege is better qualified to undertake the study of law,
perceive its relations to human affairs, fathom its myste-
ries and solve its problems, than one who has not had
IO
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
that advantage. And yet a fair education and hard work,
together with a bright mind, or natural endowments
above the average, may enable the latter to do as well in
the battle of life as his more favored brother, if not actu-
ally to outstrip him. The instances that might be cited
in proof are so numerous as to leave the question no
longer debatable. In view of this fact, not to mention a
sense of duty in the matter, Notre Dame favors for its
own guidance a rule more liberal than that which
excludes all but college graduates from the study of law.
It is not disposed to shut its doors in the face of honest
worth and promising manhood, even though the general
education of the applicant brings him only to the thresh-
old of the collegiate courses. There are many capable
and even gifted young men whose duties have been so
onerous and means so circumscribed, on account possibly
of absorbing cares and heavy expenses in providing for
parents or brothers and sisters in periods of sickness and
distress, that they could not devote the time nor make the
outlay requisite for acquiring a collegiate education.
Nevertheless, some of these are well educated along
particular lines. They acquired necessarily a fair educa-
tion in the line of their work or incidentally to it. This
is true of those working in printing offices, commercial
houses, trade establishments and offices of insurance,
real estate and law firms, as well as of those who burned
the midnight oil in study. It seems to be only fair and
in consonance with a just sense of duty to allow
credit for learning thus acquired, and especially so when
it appears to be equal in accuracy and range to that ’
acquired in the corresponding branches of an academic
course. Such persons ought to be able to finish in a
comparatively short time at Notre Dame studies of the
preparatory or high school grade in which they may be
deficient. They could then enter upon the study of law
uw DEPARTMENT
II
with bright prospects, close attention and the requisite
time being given to it.
It becomes pertinent here to indicate more specifically
the standard of qualifications for the matriculation of
law students at Notre Dame. It is graduation from any
reputable high school or completion of the preparatory
course at this place. This gives collegiate standing to
the student. He is a freshman, so to speak, or entitled
to rank as a first year’s student in collegiate work. No
persons of lower grade can be received as regular law
students and candidates for degrees.
Students from other law schools are received at any
time and allowed due credit for the work previously
done. They must, however, attend class for at least one
year in order to be entitled to the privileges and honors
of graduation.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice of
the profession or have only been licensed to practice, as
the case may be, are admitted to the senior class and
entitled to the degrees appropriate to their work and
standing at graduation in the following June.
Special students are those who wish to receive instruc-
tion in the science of the law generally or in some of its
branches without becoming candidates for degrees. No
particular entry requirement is prescribed for them, aside
from securing the consent of the Director of Studies and
being of sufficient age and capacity to understand and
profit by instruction in the law. The regular students
who enter the law course as candidates for degrees must
be at least 18 years of age, but this rule is not necessarily
applicable to those who pursue special studies. As an
education can hardly be called complete without an
elementary knowledge of the law, the number of special
students ought steadily to increase. A knowledge of the
law is the bulwark of liberty. All the relations of life
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
are within the sphere of its power to destroy, modify or
protect. It points out the safe path to follow in all
human affairs. It warns men of and saves them from
possibly great losses in the contracts incident to their
business. It admonishes them of and guards against
possible heavy damages arising from torts or negli-
gence in the management of property or their personal
conduct toward others. It accompanies and protects
them in their travels on land and sea. Night and day it
is over and around their homes and possessions, assuring
them of safety in their absolute rights of life, liberty and
property. Moreover, no other branch of study compares
with it in disciplining the mind, directing the currents of
thought, intensifying the power of analysis and discrimi-
nation, and keeping the judgment in all the affairs of
life within the boundaries of the practical—or what may
be called common sense, which is the foundation of the
law.
THE COURSE OF STUDY
at Notre Dame covers a period of three academic years.
The academic year begins for all the courses early in
September, and closes approximately about the 20th of
lune. There is no break in the regular order of work
throughout the school year, except during the Christmas
holidays, when a vacation of two weeks is allowed, in
order that all who wish may visit their homes.
Students are required to be regular and prompt in
class attendance. Absence is not excused unless in case
of sickness or the intervention of imperative and unavoid-
able duties. If continued for an unreasonable time it
deprives the student of credit in the year for the time
lost and entails forfeiture of the right to graduation,
unless the lapse be satisfactorily repaired by subsequent
study.
LAW DEPARTMENT
13
Eack of regularity or remissness in the discharge of
duty is an intolerable evil, disturbing to earnest and
industrious classmates and undoubtedly harmful to the
delinquent himself, in that it prevents him from forming
a clear and accurate conception in unbroken continuity
of his prescribed work. Breaks and intervals in his
knowlege of the law make as evidently against his thor-
oughness and proficiency as broken cogs make against
the appearance and efficacy of wheels in machinery.
Strictness in the matter rests not alone upon a conscien-
tious sense of duty to the young men themselves, their
parents, the legal profession and the public, but also to
the University, so that its reputation of affording excep-
tional opportunities and facilities to become thorough,
practical and proficient in the law may not be impaired
or jeoparded.
There are three regular classes in the law course,
which are distinguished respectively by their years of
study, as Birst or Elementary, Second or Junior and Third
or Senior. Bor example, after a year’s work in the Birst
Class its members are promoted to the Second; another
year of study in this, and they are advanced to the Third,
thus becoming Seniors. In the following June, or at the
end of the third academic year, they are graduated,
receiving the degree of EE. B. This marks the tri-
umphant finish of the regular course in law. Realizing,
however, that it is a life study, some of the more fortu-
nate of the young men may find it practicable to continue
the work for another or fourth year. In such case they
enter and become members of the Graduate Class, and
receive a year later the degree of EE. M.
Young men find it greatly to their advantage, circum-
stances permitting, to study law for the full four years at
a university, where they are in an atmosphere stimulating
and favorable to work; where wholesome emulation
14
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
incites them to call into exercise their dormant energies
and hidden powers; where they enter into the spirit not
only of the law, but also of the different academic courses,
acquiring a helpful knowledge of educational work in its
broadest lines. Moreover, the day for studying law in'
an office or in private has passed. It seems now to be
practically ont of the question to acquire a connected or
systematic knowledge of this great science in that obso-
lescent way. It must be remembered that in many
states it is threefold more difficult to pass successfully an
examination for admission to the bar now than it was
when the old system prevailed. Indeed, one ought to
acquire a more general, accurate and systematic knowledge
of the law in three or four years in a properly equipped
and well conducted law school than in twice that time
under the old methods.
Special exercises are announced from time to time,
as in the actual preparation of pleadings, the examina-
tion of abstracts of title, the writing of deeds and
leases, the making of wills and other instruments and
the dispatch of such business as is customarily transacted
in a well regulated law office. This special work requires
from one to two hours a day throughout the year*.
The subjects of study are covered by text-books,
lectures and illustrative cases, as well as by theses and
moot-court work. They "are likewise searchingly review-
ed in daily quizzes. The regular recitations, four daily
in number, cover all branches of the law, as here indicated:
FIRST YEAR
[Each subject 5 hours a week until finished.]
Persons and Domestic Relations
This branch of the law refers to natural persons and their
varied relations with one another and the state, although it deals
more specifically with the property interests and mutual rights
and duties of husband and wile, parent and child, guardian and
ward, master and servant. Natural persons and their relations
LAW DEPARTMENT	15
to one another constitute primarily the foundation upon which
rests the whole structure of the law. The better we know them
through study and observation, the more clearly we perceive the
needs incident to their progress and development and the more
intelligently we prescribe the laws requisite for their protection—
for the protection of life, personal liberty and private property.
They preceded in their origin all positive laws and even the simplest
form of government. Later they established society and formed
the state. They enacted laws answering to the requirements of
changing conditions in the line of their activities. They devised
methods of co-operation, and with lapse of time created artificial
persons or corporations The impulses and motives that actuated
and led them to pursue the course they followed are still in
unabated force and effect, being essential to progress and develop-
ment. In view of these facts, it is sought at Notre Dame to study
the subject of natural persons as viewed in their domestic relations
before or at least contemporaneously with their acts. These acts,
whether in making and preserving the law or in violation of it,
come within the sphere of the students’ work at as early a date as
practicable When impracticable to enter upon this subject as
an initial or early study, as in the case of students who become
enrolled after it has been formally treated, occasion is found from
time to time to repeat or apply its most salient principles to
known or described states of fact. This fully meets the require-
ments until the return of the time for its more formal treatment.
Text-books: Tiffany, Dwight, Scheuler, Reeves, Rodgers.
Additional subjects for First Year students: Browne’s Kent’s
Commentaries, Reed’s Rules of Order, Natural Law and Legal Ethics.
Law of Contracts
This is a fundamental and most important branch of the law.
It comprises all transactions involving agreement, whether
express or implied, in the commercial world or the affairs of daily
life. In short, it is the basis of well-nigh all branches of the law
not included in the range of torts and crimes. For example, all
transactions in real estate, whether by sale, lease or gift, are
necessarily founded upon contract. And so in respect to negotia-
tions affecting personal property, whether by sale or bailment,
and whether comprising a ship at sea, the merchandise on board,
a drove of cattle, the products of the harvest or a spool of thread.
So, too, regarding bills of exchange and promissory notes, surety-
ship and guaranty, bonds and mortgages, principal and agent,
partnership and corporations, policies of insurance and powers of
attorney, arbitration and award, the employment of skilled work-
ers and common laborers—indeed, every relation of life involving
agreement, as where the minds of persons under no legal disability
meet with contractual purpose upon any lawful subject actually
or potentially in being, and of sufficient moment not to fall as a
consideration below the dignity and scope of the law. This is
studied with exceptional thoroughness at Notre Dame. Among
its chief subdivisions are offer and acceptance, agreement and
obligation, the essential elements of contract, statute of frauds,
16	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
quasi contract, illegality and public policy, moral obligation and
reality of consent, misrepresentation and mistake, dependent and
independent promises, impossibility of performance, conflict of
laws, construction and waiver, conditions and warranties, assign-
ment and discharge.
Text-books: Clark, Hammon, Lawson, Bishop, Beach,
Anson, Benjamin.
Torts or Private Wrongs
A subject of exceptional interest and related in fundamental
importance to contracts, but differing in being outside the pale of
agreement and within the scope of obligation arising from injury
or damages caused to others by negligent or wrongful acts,
independent of the will. The treatment of the subject includes
a full outline of the substantive and adjective laws governing it,
the line to be drawn in distinguishing torts from contracts and
crimes, persons liable for torts, negligence and nuisance, libel and
slander, wrongs affecting the family relations, wrongs affecting
possession and property, remedies and damages. The law of torts
differs from that of contracts in fixing its obligations independently
of the will of the parties concerned. In contracts mind must meet
mind in every essential particular touching time, place, subject-
matter. consideration and legality. When the offer involving these
elements is unequivocally and unqualifiedly accepted the contract
is created and becomes a living force, binding upon both parties,
and no longer changeable at the will of either. This obligation
arises from the contract, and should either fail to perform or fall
short in performance it gives the other a right of action for the
breach or deficiency. In tort, on the other hand, the parties may
be entire strangers to each other and have no thought of entering
into relations productive of liability. A person may by a negligent
act incautiously injure an entire stranger in the street, as by
driving a vehicle against him, and on so doing an obligation
at once arises and binds him as firmly as by contract to the injured
man to make amends in damages for the wrong done. Again, a
person may by a negligent and wrongful oversight, as where he
furnishes to a customer a defective vehicle that breaks down and
causes injury, create an obligation binding upon him to make
amends by the payment of damages for the injury thus
caused. A railroad company may suffer its track to become
defective or its employes careless in the performance of their
duties, and a train may thus be derailed or a collision take place,
injuring many passengers. In such case a like obligation would at
once arise in law and bind it to make payment to them for the
injuries thus sustained. Defective machinery or instrumentalities
furnished by an employer for the use of his workmen in the
industrial domain would charge him with liability for injuries
caused by their defectiveness. In view of such illustrations, it will
appear clear that, as a rule, a tortious act is independent of the
will, although its commission is attended with an obligation in
law to make amends by the payment of damages for the wrong
done. Moreover, the parties to a contract must be of legal age
LAW DEPARTMENT
17
but as the will is not an element of tort, infants, insane and
intoxicated persons may become guilty of and responsible for it.
In many cases, indeed, the will may be directly opposed to the
commission of the tortious act, but where carelessness or want of
reasonable foresight nevertheless leads to it the obligation at once
arises and binds the tortfeasor to make good the c< nsequent loss.
If the will were to enter into or inspire the wrongful act, it
would change its character under ordinary circumstances, making
it a crime, instead of a tort. In short, add the will to the wrongful
act, and it becomes a crime; separate it from the crime, and a
tort remains. This important subject is developed in all its
bearings in the law course at Notre Dame.
Text-book: Hale, Jaggars, Cooley, Hilliard, Addison, Bishop.
Criminal Law or Public Wrongs
This is usually the first law that men are compelled for their
common protection to formulate and execute in the organization
of society and formation of the state. The degenerate or vicious
element is opposed to law and prone to attack the person and
seize the property of him who has been industrious and provident.
This condition precedes all positive law and is subsequently
manifest in open opposition or schemes to evade its enforcement.
In the system of study at Notre Dame the distinction between the
common and the statutory law of crime is pointed out, as in the
case of mala in se and mala prohibita. The growth of the criminal
law for the protection of the individual and his property and the
security and promotion of the common welfare is shown with due
reference to existing conditions and tendencies. Instruction on this
subject includes the elements of crime, intention and will
maliciously directed, murder and manslaughter, arson and
burglary, robbery and larceny, treason and offences against the
government.
Text-books: Clark, Bishop; Heard, May, Washburn, Wharton,
Stephen, Clark & Marshall.
Forensic Medicine or Medical Jurisprudence and Toxicology
This is a very interesting and instructive study. It deals with
the phenomena and signs of death, post-mortem examinatir ns,
personal identity, causes producing violent death, examination of
blood- stains, death from asphyxia, electricity, heat, cold, starva-
tion, etc., feigned diseases, infanticide, idiocy, insanity, dementia,
mania, paresis, poisons, mineral acids, vegetable and animal
irritants, cerebral neurotics, malpractice and medical subjects
generally in their relation to crime.
Text-books : Reese, Dean, Beck, Taylor.
Criminal Procedure
This is the adjective branch of the criminal law and concerns
itself with the penalties and remedies for its breach and the pro-
cedure for their enforcement, as conducted in court and carried into
effect by the sheriff. It deals with the arrest of accused persons,
preliminary examination, commitment or bail, office of grand jury,
i8
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
the indictment and pleadings, motions and evidence, trial and ver-
dict, final proceedings and habeas corpus.
Text-books: Clark, Bishop, Heard.
Property Real and Personal
This subject of exceptional interest is at the basis of our socia
fabric and civilization. It has the sanction of existing laws, and
upon it rests the superstructure of governments and nations. In
treating of it the origin of property is dwelt upon and made clear
by many illustrations. Personalty is viewed with reference to the
matter of acquisition, rights of possession, mobility and rules of
transfer, while realty is viewed in the aspects of its estates and
feudal tenures, uses and trusts, statute of limitations, emblements,
fixtures, powers, covenants, easements, deeds, mortgages, releases,
statutory rules and the rights respectively of landlord and tenant.
Text-books: Hopkins, Boone, Washburn, Williams, Tiedeman,
Schouler, Smith, Darlington.
Sales
This important subdivision of the law of contracts is treated
briefly under that head, but on account of the enormous increase of
trade and commerce throughout the world during the last century
it has outgrown the modest compass of its former presentation,
and several text-books are now devoted specially to it. In study-
ing it the elements of contract must be considered primarily, and
likewise the statute of frauds. The distinction between sale and
barter or exchange is explained, likewise the need of acceptance as
well as delivery in the transfer of things sold, the sale of chattels
specific and not specific, the nature of and distinction between con-
ditions and warranties, stoppage in transitu, rights of unpaid
sellers against goods sold and transferred, efiect of illegality, pay-
ment and performance of contract, and the like.
Text-books: Tiedeman, Benjamin, Tiffany, Burdick.
SECOND YEAR
[Each subject 5 hours a week until finished.]
Corporations—Private and Public or Municipal
The line of distinction between these two great classes of cor-
porations is well marked, and they are treated separately. Under
the system of study at Notre Dame, however, it is sought to con-
centrate the attention upon each branch of the law until it is
finished and has taken deep root in the mind. It is considered more
fruitful of satisfactory and abiding-results to pursue this course
than to follow that of some other institutions and deal with it at
widely separated intervals, allowing other subjects to intervene
and lead at times to confusion and loose habits of thinking. For
much the same reason it is sought here to associate or bring them
together when practicable, so that their mutuality of relation may
be more readily understood and a clearer knowledge of them
acquired. Hence, these two great classes of corporations are dealt
UW DEPARTMENT
19
with in consecutive order. As they are distinguished as artificial
persons in law, it is deemed advisable to deal with them early in the
second year, natural persons thus coming in the first. The subject
of private corporations is more extensive than municipal, and it is
developed at greater length. In brief, the subject of corporations
includes their nature and creation, powers and liabilities, acts of
promoters and officers, charters and management, ultra vires acts
and dissolution, rights and remedies of creditors; also, nature and
powers of public corporations, legislative control, municipal securi-
ties, liability on contracts and for torts, city ordinances and police
courts.
The subject of private corporations is treated in all its multi-
tudinous ramifications from the initial organization to dissolution.
It is almost as broad and needs practically as much time for study
and recitation as the great branch of contracts or torts.
Municipal corporations comprise counties, towns, cities, or
public govermental agencies. In a broad sense, the Federal govern-
ment, not less than the state or city, is a corporation, the consti-
tution being its charter and the statutes its by-laws. By such
comparisons it is sought to make subjects of study mutually aidful.
Study and recitations in these branches cover usually about two
months.
Text-books: Marshall, Clark, Elliott, Beach, Ingersoll, Tiede-
man, Dillon, Angel, & Ames.
Extra recitations for First Year students: Blickenderfer’s
Blackstone’s Commentaries (Abridged).
Partnership
Or the association of two or more persons for carrying on a
business and dividing the profits between them. It is a very close
and confidential relation, each member becoming the agent of the
other within the usual or apparent scope of the business. The
study of the subject comprises the several kinds of partnership,
including joint stock companies, articles of agreement, essential
elements of the relation, express and implied rights and liabilities,
actions or suits between partners, as well as between them and
third persons, liabilities and grounds of dissolution.
Text-books: Bates, George, Shumaker, Lindley, Parsons,
Pollock.
Agency
In the widening areas of commerce and increase of wealth
throughout the world the law of agency' has grown apace. In a
broad sense the relation exists where one person authorizes another
to act for him or in his stead. It involves the general principle
Qui faclt per alium facit per se—He who acts through another acts
himself. In dealing with the subject it is necessary to study the
means of creating the relation of principal and agent, distinction
between agent and servant, creation of the agency by appointment,
ratification, estoppel or necessity, delegation of authority to sub-
agents, liability of principal for acts of agent, personal liability of
agent for his acts, powers and liabilities of public agents, mutual
20
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
duties and liabilities of principal and agent to each other, and ter-
mination of the relation.
Text-books: Tiffany, Reinhard, Mechem, Evans, Story, Wharton.
Bailments and Carriers
This is a very practical branch of the law and necessarily in
constant application throughout the country. Our law of bail-
ments comes from that great world source of legal wisdom, the
Civil or Roman law. The several kinds of bailments, excluding the
mutuum, are as accurately and clearly classified in the Institutes of
Justinian as in Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Ld. Raym. 909, or any of the
recently published text-books. Indeed, we still use the Roman
terms in designating them, as depositum, mandatum, commo-
datum, pignus and locatio. Whenever a person commits the care
of or loans an article of property to another, or intrusts its use to
him for hire or with a view to having it carried to some other place,
a bailment is created, such person becoming a bailor and the
recipient a bailee. Carriers comprise all who make a business of
carrying goods and passengers for hire, whether they be railroad or
steamboat companies, the owners of ships or city trucks, draymen
or stage coach proprietors. They are liable as insurers of the goods
delivered to them for transportation, and the same is true regard-
ing the responsibility of innkee£ ers for the goods and effects of
guests intrusted to their care as bailees. A few of the chief sub-
divisions are delivery and acceptance, distinction between bailment
and sale, subjects of bailment, liability of bailee under special con-
tract, degree of care necessary, denial of bailor’s title estopped, a
sale if ownership change to bailee, what may be pledged, interest of
pledgee assignable and subject to judicial sale, payment and rede-
livery, the hiring of services or chattels, rights and liabilities of
warehousemen, forwarding merchants, wharfingers, safe deposit
companies, agisters, factors, innkeepers and carriers.
Text-books: Hale, Hutchinson, Edwards, Story, Schouler.
Insurance—Fire, Life, Accident, Marine
The origin of insurance is involved in obscurity, although the
principle as applied to individual or private risks was evidently
known in ancient times. At any rate it existed as a definite sys-
tem as applied to shipping or maritime risks during the Middle
Ages. Fire and life insurance came very slowly into use, and not
earlier than the last century did it take definite shape under sanction
of the law. Since then insurance companies of many kinds have
been organized, and a person may now insure against loss or
injury by accident, dishonesty or negligence on the part of employes
or others, nonpayment of rents or debts, bankruptcy or insolvency
of debtors, failure of title in the purchase of land or chattels, dam-
age to or death of live stock, destruction wrought by the elements
in extraordinary storms, etc. It has usually been a lucrative busi-
ness, and hence the steady increase in number of companies and
subjects of risk. The chief subdivisions for study are representa-
tions, warranties, concealment, premium, formation of contract,
policies of various kinds, subject-matter and insurable interest,
LAW DEPARTMENT
21
double and reinsurance, agency, waiver and estoppel, assignment
and change of interest or title, vacancy and repairs, notice and
proof of loss, right to repair or rebuild, measure of damages, con-
ditions affecting mortgages and subrogation.
Text-books: Vance, May, Elliott, Kerr, Bliss, Joyce, Wood.
Common Law Pleading and Practice
This subject calls into exercise the student’s power of attention,
ability to compare and analyze, accuracy in the relation and
sequence of thought, resourcefulness in finding and taking the cor-
rect initiative in the theory to be adopted, and skill in the logical
development and establishment of the theory, plan and facts in the
case. It is impossible to find a better system of logic and practice
in close reasoning than is afforded by the study of common law
pleadings. Moreover, these pleadings as developed through several
hundred years of use and practice may be said to underlie the code
and other forms of pleadings more recently adopted. Hence the
common law system of pleading and practice is taken up primarily
at Notre Dame. The subdivisions studied are here indicated in part:
Courts and jurisdiction, capacities and disabilities of parties,
threefold division of actions—real, personal and mixed—personal
actions ex contractu or on contract, as assumpsit, debt, covenant
and account; personal actions ex delicto or tort, as case, trespass,
detinue, replevin and trover; the summons or capias to begin the
action, and then the declaration, plea, replication, rejoinder, surre-
joinder, rebutter and surrebutter; also, the demurrer, pleas in
abatement or in bar and the several kinds of motions; likewise,
quo warranto, habeas corpus, scire facias, garnishment, attach-
ment and ejectment in the real, mixed and statutory actions and
forms of procedure; arbitration and award, certiorari, prohibition
and mandamus, trial and development of the facts undef* the
evidence, instructions of the court and verdict of the jury, grounds
of motion for a new trial, entry of judgment on the verdict if
motion be refu ed, and then appeal on claim of error to the court of
review or supreme court.
Text-books: Shipman, Gould, Stephen, Shinn, Heard, Perry,
Chitty.
Interpretation and Construction of Laws.
This is a useful and practical branch of the law. It is almost as
aidful to the lawyer in the deeper and more analytic lines of his
work as the law of evidence is in jury trials. It furnishes a key to
the interpretation or correct understanding of the statutes, gives
emphasized significance to the wording of contracts and legal
instruments, and makes it easier to construe the reported opinions
of the courts, separating readily the dicta from the necessary sub-
stance. The rules of interpretation came substantially from the
Roman law. They and the maxims were translated into English
and embodied in our jurisprudence. Among the. subdivisions treated
under this head may be mentioned: Definition and object of inter-
pretation, intent to be sought, office of the judiciary, retrospective
operation avoided, mandatory and directory provisions, popular
22
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
and technical meaning of words, casus omissus and equitable con-
struction, strict and liberal construction, rejection of surplusage,
presumption against unconstitutionality, general terms following
special, express mention and implied exclusion, reddendo singula
singulis, permissive, mandatory and directory statutes, adopted
and re-enacted statutes, title, preamble and context of statutes, to
be construed as a whole, admissibility of extrinsic aids, statutes in
pari materia, contemporary construction and usage, construction
with reference to the common law, statutes regulating procedure,
construction of amendments and declaratory acts, the nature and
force of precedents, construction of statutes of other States, Federal
courts following State laws and decisions in State matters, etc.
Text-books: Black on Interpretation of Laws; Bishop, Law-
son, Dwarris.
The State and Federal Courts and their Respective Functions
A study of courts, both of law and equity, is aidful to the
acquisition of a practical knowledge of the more difficult subject of
pleadings. Places lawfully established for the administration of
justice, they are the temples of the law, and those licensed to serve
in them should do so with due reverence and a solemn sense of
responsibility. While thorough instruction is given in respect to
the courts and methods of trial in Great Britain and on the conti-
nent of Europe, yet our own judicial system, both State and
Federal, is even more specifically described and explained, and no
doubt or obscurity regarding it is permitted to linger in the mind’
It is shown how the courts are divided into many branches, with
distinctive names, when the volume of legal business is great and so
demands, as in the larger cities, while a single court under one name
may dispatch as many kinds of business where the volume is
smaller and the jurisdictional area less populous. The State trial
courts and the courts of review or supreme courts and their func-
tions are fully described, while the Federal Supreme Court and sub-
ordinate tribunals, as circuit courts of appeal, circuit courts, district
courts and even commissioners’ courts, receive becoming attention
and explanation. The procedure on appeal or writ of error to the
Supreme Court, State and Federal, is likewise fully elucidated.
Text-books: Hughes, Desty, Bwbank, Shinn, Shipman, Plead-
ings Forms, Brief Making.
THIRD YEAR
[Bach subject five hours a week until finished.]
Equity Pleading and Practice.
Pleading in courts of equity or chancery is less technical and
complicated than at common law. It is marked by greater fulness
and clearness of statement. We may divide equity pleadings into
the bill, disclaimer,plea, answer and replication; also, the demurrer.
The bill, answet and replication commonly set forth and join issue
on the disputed facts, and lead in importance. The bills are classi-
fied as original and not original. Again, they pray relief or do not
pray relief. The original bills praying relief are those claiming
DAW DEPARTMENT
23
rights of complainant in opposition to defendant, or the class of
hills customarily in litigation; also, bills of interpleader and bills
of certiorari. The original bills not praying relief are those to
perpetuate testimony, de bene esse and for discovery. The bills not
orginal comprise as a continuation of those just named the supple-
mental bill, the bill of revivor and the bill of revivor and supple-
ment. The bills not original are regularly intended for purposes of
cross litigation, or to controvert, suspend, reverse or carry into
execution a decree of court. They are the cross-bill, the bill of
review, bill to impeach a decree for fraud, bill to suspend or avoid
execution of a decree, bill to carry a decree into execution, bill in
nature of bill of review, bill in nature of bill of revivor, bill in nature
of supplemental bill, and supplemental bill in nature of bill of
review. The bill is said to contain nine parts, although seldom
having more than five or six. They are the address, introduction,
premises or stating part, confederating part, charging part, aver-
ment of jurisdiction, interrogating part, prayer for relief and prayer
for process. It is shown in the course of instruction that no com-
plainant can sue in equity unless the common law fails to afford
adequate relief. If he seek damages he must sue in a common law
court. Nor has equity anything to do with criminal matters. It
has no jury trials. The chief subjects of litigation in equity are
comprised under the general heads accident, fraud, mistake, specific
performance, trusts, injunctions, the reforming of instruments and
infringement of patents and copyright.
Text-books: Shipman, Shinn, Fletcher, Barbour, Daniel.
Special class for First Year students: Robinson’s Elements of
American Jurisprudence.
Code Pleading
This system is followed, with statutory modifications, in three-
fifths of the states. And in Great Britain it was adopted in
the main under the Judicature Acts of 1873 and 1875. It had its
origin in New York, ousting and taking the place of equity and
common law pleadings. The commission to act in the matter
began the work of codification under the Constitution of 1846.
But it required several years to complete the codes of civil and
criminal procedure. It was provided that there should afterward
be no distinction between legal and equitable remedies and that the
common law forms of action should be abolished. The new method
was shaped chiefly in accordance with equity procedure, for which
it was substituted. One form of action was prescribed for all
classes of cases, whether of a legal or equitable nature. The plead-
ings were greatly reduced in number and designated the complaint
or petition, answer and reply; also, the demurrer. A rule was
adopted requiring them to be concise and framed in language clear,
intelligible and easily understood. The new method was regarded
as a necessary reform in the interest of justice, and widely adopted,
especially in the new states. Since then, however, so many statu-
tory revisions have been made, and so many rulings of the courts
leading to divergences have entered into it, that it is now hardly
less free from doubt, uncertainty and technicalities than the old
24	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
system. At any rate, it appears to be easier to determine on the
old lines whether one has a good cause of action. Moreover, the
states that retained the common law pleadings show no disposition
now to change to the code. And the same is true of the Federal
courts. It is comparatively easy for a lawyer familiar with com-
mon law and equity pleadings to accommodate himself to the
practice of a code State, but not so where a lawyer of the latter
undertakes to practice under the old system, although the general
principles are the same. At Notre Dame all the ordinary systems of
pleading are taught, and a diligent student ought to be able readily
to qualify himself for practice in any State.
Text-books: Bliss, Phillips, Boone, Maxwell, Estee’s Plead-
ings, Elliott’s Appellate Procedure, Ewbank’s Manual of Practice,
Bashfield’s Instructions to Juries.
Evidence
This is an exceedingly important subject. It comprises the
body of approved rules under which the relevant facts in issue on
trial may be introduced and submitted for impartial consideration
to the court or judge and jury. It is the means by which proof is
established. It is virtually the same under the code, at common
law, in equity and under the criminal law, as well as before arbitra-
tion boards and legislative bodies. Its fundamental propositions
are conclusive. Its four chief canons are thus stated: 1st, the evi-
dence must correspond to the allegations and be confined to the
point in issue; 2d, it is sufficient if the substance only of the issue
be proved; 3d, the burden of proving a proposition or issue lies on
the party holding the affirmative; 4th, the best evidence of which
the case in its nature is susceptible must always be produced. A
thorough knowledge of evidence is a necessary equipment of a trial
lawyer. It is made the subject of exhaustive study at Notre Dame
and applied regularly in moot-court practice. Mention may be
made of a few of the topics that, with their subdivisions, must be
carefully studied in dealing with it: the grounds of belief, it is
easier and more natural to be truthful than to lie, things judicially
noticed, presumptions of law and fact, substance of the issue and
relevancy, res gestae and burden of proof, hearsay testimony, mat-
ters of public and general interest, dying declarations, declarations
against interest, confessions and admissions, evidence excluded on
grounds of public policy, testimohy of witnesses, their capacity and
impeachment, records and judicial writings, experts and hand-
writing.
Text-books: Jones, Underhill, Elliott, Wigmore, Greenleaf,
Wharton, McKelvey Roscoe, Starkie, Stephen, Best.
Damages
As litigation is conducted primarily in common law courts with
aviewto the recovery of damages, thesubject may fittingly be taken
up after pleadings. The ultimate aim from the service of the sum-
mons to the levy of the writ of execution is to secure redress for the
wrong alleged. Some reasonable rule is necessarily sought as a
means of estimating or measuring the damages to be awarded.
TAW DEPARTMENT
25
But little difficulty is encountered where a note, debt or claim for a
specific amount is involved, for here a case of liquidated damages,
so to speak, is presented, and full compensation is readily decided
upon as the proper remedy. Otherwise, however, where the
damages are unliquidated, leaving the measure or true amount to
be ascertained by a careful examination and analysis of the evi-
dence. Among the chief subdivisions for study are: the theory and
nature of damages, definition and classification, lawful and unlaw-
ful conduct, nominal and compensatory damages, exemplary or
punitive damages, commercial paper and interest, province of court
and jury, damages for nondelivery, nonacceptance or conversion of
goods, -nonpayment and breach of warranty, refusal of carriers to
transport goods, injury in transit, loss or delay, consequential
damages, injuries to passengers, failure to carry to destination,
actions for damages against telegraph companies, ordinary and
cipher messages, breach of marriage promise, damages for death by
wrongful act, damages for wrongs affecting real property, including
waste and nuisance.
Text-books: Hale, Sedgwick, Sutherland.
Bills, Notes and Checks, with Suretyship and Guaranty
The term commercial paper is often used synonymously with
the subject stated. It includes suretyship and guaranty in so
many of its phases that the order of study indicated has been
found satisfactory. Commercial paper enters so largely into
business transactions throughout the world that a correct
knowledge of it is indispensable. While great diversity exists in
the laws bearing upon it, yet a movement looking to its codifica-
tion was inaugurated in 1895, the American Bar Association
taking the initiative in suggesting. it. The British Bills of
Exchange Act of 1882 served as model. Prompt action was
taken in the matter and in 1897 as many as 15 States and the
District of Columbia had agreed to the draft submitted to them.
Their agreement resulted in the Negotiable Instruments Law.
While in no respect radical, yet it reduces to clear terms and pithy
paragraphs the principles of the law merchant. In States that
have not yet adopted it the general law on the subject must
be studied. So at Notre Dame, although the Negotiable Instru-
ments Law receiv s due attention. The subdivisions of bills, notes
and checks include in brief: indorsements—blank, full, qualified,
conditional and restrictive; persons signing—drawer, maker, surety
and guarantor; contractual liabilities — drawer, drawee, acceptor
and indorsers; acceptor’s estoppels—cannot deny existence of
signature of drawer, capacity to draw and sufficiency of funds on
hand to pay; indorser’s estoppels—cannot deny genuineness or
validity of paper, good title or capacity of prior parties; conditions
of liability of drawer and indorser—due presentment for acceptance,
demand of payment,’protest and notice of dishonor, but these steps
excused by overruling circumstances, no funds in drawee’s hands,
or waiver of protest and notice; to constitute a bona fide holder—
good faith, in hand before maturity, valuable consideration, taken
in usual course of business and without notice of defects; defenses
26
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
—incapacity of parties, illegal consideration and want of consent ;
certification of check makes bank principal debtor, discharges
drawer and gives it the credit of cash. Suretyship signifies the obli-
gation assumed by one who binds himself primarily with the
principal for the performance of the undertaking or payment of the
debt into which the principal enters, while a guaranty is an under-
taking by a person that if the one primarily liable to perform a
specified obligation fail to do so he will himself be answerable for
the default.
Text-books: Norton, Tiedeman, Randolph, Daniel, Chalmers,
McMaster, Pingrey, Brandt, Childs.
Equity Jurisprudence
This branch of study is highly important. Moreover, it is fasci-
nating in the harmony and impressiveness of its principles. It
comes to us from the Roman law. At an early day the common
law was so harsh and inflexible in its rules that it often failed in
justice or fell short of reaching many cases. It was anomalous and
uncouth in many respects and adapted only to a rude state of
society. The kings were frequently appealed to for the redress of
wrong when the law failed to afford relief. Some were too young
to act in person and others were warlike and comparatively
illiterate. Under such circumstances, they were naturally averse to
take unaided action upon the petitions submitted to them, and
they called to their assistance ecclesiastics held in high respect and
learned in the Roman law, the most advanced and perfect system
of jurisprudence then known to mankind. The prelates thus chosen
by the kings to represent and act for them on matters affecting con-
science, right and justice were invested successively with the
dignity and title of lord high chancellor. The care of the great seal
was intrusted to them, and they became “keepers of the king’s
conscience,” so that they might act as conscientiously as he should
in the light of their religious training and legal learning. They
were also to act with some measure of royal grace and favor, as
the terms of even present pleadings in equity clearly show. In this
capacity 160 of them served in successive order prior to the refor-
mation in the 16th century. In passing upon the petitions referred
to the throne and submitted to them they applied the rules of the
Roman law, as refined by philosophy, together with moral precepts
from the Bible, aiming to redress wrongs and do justice where the
common law failed to afford relief. And little by little the common
law yielded and accommodated itself on many points to the prin-
ciples of equity as thus elucidated and expounded. The statutes
also followed equity in several particulars, superseding the common
law. Thus equity grew steadily in favor and became permanently
established as a part of our jurisprudence. Its principles are as
distinctive under the code as where the common law system of
pleading obtains. It searches the conscience and follows fraud and
injustice into all the ramifications of human affairs. But it cannot
be invoked for aid where the common law is adequate to grant
relief. It is only in cases where a proper remedy cannot be had at
law that equity consents to take jurisdiction. It is now so well
RAW DEPARTMENT
27
established, even in Great Britain, notwithstanding Blackstone’s
animadversions, that the Judicature Act specifically provides that
in case of conflict between its principles and those of the common
law the former shall prevail.
Text.books: Fetter, Eaton, Snell, Story, Adams, Merwin,
Pomeroy.
Wills, Executors and Administrators
The word “ will ” signifies the disposition of property to take
effect after the testator’s death. The word testament has a like
meaning in the Roman law and is accepted as the proper name in
such case in the countries of continental Europe and South America,
whose basic jurisprudence is derived from that source. The word
“will” is more commonly used in the United States, Great Britain
and its possessions, although “testament” is often used in referring
to the disposition of personal property. When intended to convey
a present estate, though possession be retained until after death,
the instrument of conveyance is a deed; but when the interest
specified is not to accrue until after death, the instrument
thus disposing of it is a will. The right to devise realty and
bequeath personalty is governed wholly by statute. A will is
ambulatory and may be modified or revoked at any time
before death, but once title takes effect under a deed the grantor
has no further power over it. An executor is a person named
in the will to represent and follow the intention of the testator
in giving effect to its terms. Not only must the will be probated
in court, but he must qualify there also and receive letters
testamentary before he can lawfully act. An administrator is
one appointed by the court to administer and settle the estate of
the deceased, as where he dies intestate or without leaving a will,
or dies testate without naming an executor. Such personal
representative acts in accordance with the provisions of the
statute and advice of the court The utility and practical nature
of this extensive branch of the law may be regarded as self-evident,
and hence it must be carefully and diligently and ought to be
exhaustively studied.
Text-books: Gardner, Redfield, Jarman, Underhill, Croswell,
Woerner.
Constitutional Law
This is the organic or fundamental law of our country. The
Federal Constitution contains seven articles and 15 amendments.
It went into effect March 4, 1789, and was the first of written
constitutions. Even to this day the British Constitution is
unwritten. The Federal Constitution is the instrument by virtue
of which the National Government exists, possesses powers and
exercises functions apart from the states. It was adopted by
the people, acting through their states, and sustains comparison to
a charter creating and conferring power upon a corporation. As
it is a grant of power the government has no more authority to
act beyond its scope than a corporation would have to act and
make contracts in excess of its franchises. Whatever the corpora-
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
tion might thus do would be ultra vires and there is no good
reason why the same rule should not apply to the government,
with the difference that the act of the corporation is an indefensible
usurpation and violation of duty to the state, while the act of the
government is a violation of law and duty to the people, not less
than an invasion of their fundamental rights. It is a dangerous
exercise of usurped power in either case and tends to the sub-
version of law and the destruction of constitutional government.
The courts would have no alternative but to take substantially -
this view if only the express terms of the constitution or charter
were in question, but the implied powers give rise to doubt and
controversy. These are within the scope of the general provision
that all powers necessary to carry into effect the express powers
are implied and may be constitutionally exercised. Wthin that
broad license, which without other qualifications is the danger
point in our organic law, many of the most momentous acts in our
history have been accomplished. Possibly most of the functions of
government are exercised within the sphere of these powers. It
must nevertheless be remembered that constitutional government
ends at the point where these powers exceed the purposes and
objects of the organic law. All powers not granted to the Federal
Government by the constitution remain in the people, and the
state constitution, which comes nearer to them in their local
concerns, is a limitation upon the exercise of power by the
legislature, and not a grant. Local self-government is an essential
feature of our political system. The study of constitutional law
is exceedingly interesting and instructive Moreover, no lawyer
can fairly be considered great in the profession without having a
thorough knowledge of it. A student ought to learn the
constitution by heart. It is sought at Notre Dame to have young
men make an exceptionally thorough study of it.
Text-books: Black, Cooley, McClain, Story, Desty, The
Federalist.
International Law
A knowledge of the law of nations is an indispensable part of a
liberal education. Young men generally, as well as law students,
ought to familiarize themselves with its principles. In the diplo-
matic service and journalism it is particularly aidful. It is not a
difficult sutdy. In harmony with the general principles of law and
equity, it may be considered a growth in the same lines. Like the
law of the land, it is conventional and customary, or written and un-
written. The former consists in treaties, compacts, conferences, the
formal agreements of international congresses, etc., The latter
embodies those usages which the continued habit of nations has
sanctioned for their mutual interest and convenience. Customs
lawful and innocent are binding on the nations that adopt them,
while customs unjust and in violation of the natural and divine
law have no binding force. International law has high and unselfsh
aims in the domain of conscience and justice. It is divided into
two branches—public and private. The public branch refers to the
law of nations in the broadest sense, or the rules of conduct govern-
UW DEPARTMENT
29
ing their intercourse with one another as sovereign and co-equal
members of one great international family. Those that widely
differ from them in civilizing influences and standards of morals are
not received into the family of nations, and hence not treated as
subjects of international law. The family of nations includes the
countries of Europe and the colonies established by them through-
out the world, now changed in some instances to sovereign and
independent nations more populous and powerful than the mother
countries The private branch comprises the local laws of different
nations with respect each to its claim of exclusive sovereignty, con-
trol of persons and property within Rs borders and observance of
good faith in the comity disposing it to apply the same rules of
protection to the people and property of other countries when
traveling or abiding within its jurisdiction that such countries
observe in the treatment of its citizens and their property under like
circumstances. The term conflict of laws, instead of private inter-
national law, is generally applied to the class of cases coming under
this head, Of these mention may be made illustratively of marriage
and divorce, birth and legitimacy, contracts and their enforcement,
bills and notes, pending suits and judgments, assignment by insol-
vents, conveyances and intestate estates, etc. Some of the subdivi-
sions of public international law may also be mentioned to indicate
more clearly the line of demarcation: The several kinds of unions of
states, recognition of belligerency, effect of change of sovereignty
upon public and private rights and obligations, fundamental rights
and duties of states, modes of acquiring territorial property, rivers,
lakes, bays, gulfs, straits and marginal waters, vessels of war and
merchant vessels, public diplomatic agents, right of asylum and ex-
tradition, aliens and their exemption from military or naval duty,
letters of marque, privateers and pirates, naturalization and al-
legiance, mediation, arbitration, and measures of restraint short of
war, causes, pretexts and kinds of war, effects of war on persons
and property, military occupation and postliminium, means of car-
rying on hostilities, enemy character and non-hostile relations,
prisoners of war, peace and neutrality, contraband goods, visit and
search, right of angary, blockade and ship’s papers.
Text-books: Glenn, Hall, Halleck, Woolsey, Davis, Grotiu§,
Bluntschli, Phillimore, Calvo, Vattel.
GRADUATE YEAR
[ Each subject 4 hours a week until finished, and 5 hours
weekly for review.]
The Roman Law
This great system is the basis of the laws of more than three-
fourths of the civilized nations of the world. Its importance and
practical utility can hardly be realized unless it be studied atten-
tively, earnestly and analytically. Thus studied, it is discovered to
be a rich mine of legal lore. Its principles seem to shed light on all
the ways to which human energies are directed in the evolution of
affairs. So striking is this fact that there need be no hesitation in
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
stating that it would be almost as helpful to a beginner in the law
to study the Institutes of Justinian as Blackstone's Commentaries.
It may be said indeed that the Commentaries command much of
their favor through adherence to the plan and use of the matter of
the Institutes and Pandects. Following are the chief subdivisions
comprised in the course of study at Notre Dame: Origin and growth
of the Roman law, the jus civile, the XII Tables in substance, the
Roman family and gens, patricians and plebeians, consular govern-
ment, laws relating to contracts, succession, property, injuries, etc.,
jurisdiction of praetor, acquisition of property ex jure gentium, the
imperial system, relation of the senate to the emperor, the praetor
and jurists’ responses, constitutions of the emperor, stoic theory of
natural law as an element of jurisprudence, definitions and maxims,
changes wrought in law and government through the influences of
the oriental provinces, authority of the Christian clergy and rela-
tion of church to state, study of the Roman law throughout the
civilized world, common and statutory law, public and private law,
jus personarum—law of persons, jus rerum—law of things, obliga-
tions—ex contractu and ex delicto, jus actionem—law of actions or
civil remedies aad procedure.
The Law of Admiralty
This law originated in the needs of commerce and the usages of
merchants at a time so remote in antiquity as to be lost in
obscurity. The shipping interests and commercial activities of
peoples inhabiting the shores of the Mediterranean sea, such as the
Rhodians, Greeks, Egyptians, Phoenicians, Carthaginians “and
others were developed to a noteworthy extent at the very dawn of
authentic history, and even when legend and history were so indis-
criminately commingled that fiction and truth had about equal
control of popular credulity. Like other branches of the law it has
grown and is still growing in the line of its recognized principles
and adapting itself to new or changed conditions throughout the
world. In studying the subject the student deals with the nature
and extent of its operation in the United States, cognizance of cases
arising under it in the Federal courts, contracts and wages of sea-
men, torts and damages, employment of pilots, seaworthiness and
^deviation, barratry and illegal traffic, perils of the sea and proxi-
mate cause of loss, abandonment and valuation, subrogation of
insurer, bottomry and respondentia, supplies and repairs, necessa-
ries furnished in foreign ports, liens on foreign and domestic vessels,
towage service and responsibility respectively of tug and tow in
collisions, incidents of service and elements of compensation in
salvage, contracts of affreightment, charter parties, bill of lading
and its negotiability, harbors and docks, piers and bridges, doctrine
of imputed and contributory negligence, rules as to lights and sig-
nals in fair and foul weather, colors and places of lights and duties
of lookouts for the prevention of collisions, rules to be observed by
steamers and sailing vessels in meeting and passing each other,
wrecks and derelicts, damages for collision, vessels transferred by bill
of sale as personal property, admiralty procedure similar to that of
Roman law and quite simple, comprising the libel and process,
defence and trial, evidence, decree and appellate procedure.
UW DEPARTMENT
31
Mines, Mining and Water Rights
This branch of the law demands the diligent and discriminating
study of those who intend to reside in the Rocky Mountain and
Pacific Coast States, although mining for coal, copper, iron, lead,
zinc, etc., not to mention gold and silver, is carried on here and
there in a majority of the States of the Union. In the far Western
States, however, as well as in Mexico, the British Possessions and
Alaska, it is especially important, if not a leading branch of in-
dustry. In certain other parts of the world it has been carried on
without material interruption for 20 or 30 centuries. The regalian
ownership of minerals is generally recognized in monarchical
countries, and title resides in the crown, which exacts a certain per-
centage of the ores mined or a compensatory tax. Under the laws
of Athens 1-24 was taken by the government, while in the countries
subject to Rome 1-10 had to be paid. In our own country how-
ever, the regalian right does not exist. The miners of California led
in the adoption of the main principles of the mining laws of Spain
and Mexico, which make the primary right of property depend
upon discovery, location and development. All mineral lands of the
United States are free and open to exploration and occupation,
subject to the rules and customs of miners. In other words, the
customs of miners constitute a part of the common law, as do the
customs of merchants, but they yield to and are supplanted by
statutory enactments to the contrary. The range of study may
best be indicated by the mention of some of the leading subdivi-
sions: Whence we derive the mining laws, provisions of the civil
and the common law on the subject, location and necessary annual
work in establishing mining claims, notable differences between
American and foreign mining laws, insufficiency of the act of 1866
and enactment and provisions of that of 1872, exclusion of Chinese,
general outline of State statutes, miners’ rules not judicially noticed
and requiring proof, hydraulic and placer mining, petroleum and
natural gas treated as mineral and part of the soil, locations on
Indian reservations void, land in forest park reserves not deemed
public, known mines and minerals excepted from agricultural
patents, lode claims not to be over 1,500 feet in length and 600 feet
in width, individual placer claims not to be over 20 acres and cor-
- poration or other such claims not to exceed 160 acres, tunnel claims
and manner of locating them, water rights and kindred easements,
mill sites must be used for mine or mill, percolating and under-
ground waters distinguished, proceedings to validate claims and'
secure patents, legal forms under the mining laws.
Copyright, Patents"and Trademarks
This branch of the law, like the”preceding subjects of mining
and admiralty, is somewhat technical and out of the current of
ordinary legal studies. The utility of these subjects depends largely
upon the domicile of the learner. Mainly for that reason they are
placed in the graduate year, so that the undergraduate students
may be left free to devote their time to subjects coming more
directly within the sphere of the general laws. Nevertheless, any
of these studies may be taken up, in addition to those of the under-
32
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
graduate years, by students who can spare the time to pursue
them. While it is to be hoped that they may be taken in the regular
order by graduates, yet they may be chosen optionally and
followed to completion by any students who consider them neces-
sary in preparing for practice. Graduates are, unfortunately,
never numerous in the law schools of the country, and hence the
subjects indicated are placed in the year in which they are least
likely to be embarrassing. A copyright secured through the
Librarian of Congress gives authors and publishers the exclusive
right of printing, publishing and selling their literary compositions
or books or multiplying copies of what they have written or
printed. A patent protects the inventor of a new and useful article
or improvement in the exclusive right for a certain period to make
and vend the same. A trademark is a word, mark or device
adopted by a manufacturer or vendor to distinguish his goods from
those of like kinds made or sold by others. These matters are
treated briefly, although perhaps fully enough for the ordinary
student, under the head “Personal Property.”
Trusts and Trustees
This is an interesting and instructive topic. While dealt with
in briefunder the head of “Equity Jurisprudence,” it is nevertheless
too important and practical to be thus summarily dismissed. A
trustee holds a position of great responsibility and involving con-
fidence in a high degree. His motives and acts in the discharge of
the functions of his trust are impartially searched under the rules of
equity by the trained conscience of the chancellor. The course of
study comprises these subdivisions: Origin and classification of
trusts, trustees and beneficiaries, trust property within and beyond
the jurisdiction, trusts executed and executory, express and implied
trusts, constructive and resulting trusts, nature and characteristics
of trust estates, trusts from powers, trustees ex maleficio, accept-
ance or disclaimer and removal of trustees, perpetuties and accumu-
lations, deposit and conversion of trust funds, investments and
interest, choses in action and reduction to possession, rights of
married women under statutes and separation deeds, trustees for
married women and infants, trustees of freeholds and dry trusts,
life tenant and remainderman, trustees for payment under will and
their powers, assignments for creditors, trusts for charities, cy pres
doctrine, trustees to sell, application of moneys received, rights and
remedies of cestui que trust, laches and statute of limitations, com-
pensation of trustee, actions and costs, termination of trust.
Statutes of State, and Domicile and Federal Statutes
It is out of the question to attempt to study the statutes in
general. On some subjects they harmonize in certain States or
groups of States, while on others there is the widest diversity.
No two states can be said to be exactly alike in their statutory
enactments. Moreover, the statutes are constantly changing'in
accordance with the varying needs or legislative caprices of the
different States. No lawyer or court takes voluntary cognizance of
these changes. No court passes the boundaries of its own State in
taking judicial notice of the statutes. And only its own public
LAW DEPARTMENT
33
statutes and the Federal come within the rule. The public statutes
of a neighboring State must be pleaded and proved as carefully as
its own private statutes. The common law presumably exists in
other States unless the contrary is shown. Neither student nor
lawyer is required, to go farther than the court in this regard. He
is not bound to know the statutes of any State other than his own.
To attempt to go farther would be useless, confusing and embar-
rassing. They are so diverse that it would be impracticable to
undertake to deal with them before a class comprising students
from difierent States. Hence the study of them is left under advice
and supervision very largely of the students themselves. Bach is
urged to procure and have with him for study in the graduate
year the statutes of his own State.
Powers and Functions of Masters-in-Chancery, Referees* Sheriffs,
Coroners, Justices of the Peace, JUnited States
Commissioners, Arbitrators and Receivers
The course of instruction at Notre Dame comprises a careful
study of the official acts, powers and duties of public officers, such
as those named. Law students ought to know the general nature
of their duties and how ithey should qualify for the positions
respectively held by them. It is not a difficult branch of study
and ought not to be neglected. It is useful and practical in an
eminent degree. Not being regarded, however, as strictly essential,
it is reserved for the graduate year, and especially so since much is
learned respecting the functions of these officials in the undergrad-
uate course.
MONTHLY THESES
In addition to the regular order of exercises indicated
in the preceding pages every student is required to write
month by month a thesis of at least 15 pages of legal cap,
or ten such theses in each academic year. These theses
must show not only originality and research, but also accu-
racy and creditable scholarship in composition. When
finished from time to time they must be submitted to the
Faculty for examination and approval. Prior to Com-
mencement in the following June they are returned to the
writers. Thus the time and thought bestowed upon and
the authorities cited in them can be made available in
subsequent review, if not as guides in actual practice to
pertinent cases in the reports.
The theses for the academic year 1903-4 dealt with
the subjects following:
34	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
i.	Aliens and Naturalization Laws.
2.	Legal Status of Animals.
3.	Unincorporated or Fraternal Societies.
4.	Judicial and Ministerial Officers.
5.	Taxation and Assessments.
6.	Eminent Domain and Police Power.
7.	Conflict of Laws.
8.	Bxtraordinary Legal Remedies.
9.	Injunctions, Bstoppel and Statute of Limitations.
10.	Procedure on Appeal.
The topics selected for theses in the academic year
1904-5 comprised:
1.	Law in Its Origin and Growth, including Com-
parative Jurisprudence.
2.	The Maxims of Fquity and their Application.
3.	The Study of Forms, with Fxamples in Plead-
. ings, Contracts and Conveyancing.
4.	The Law of Notice and Waiver.
5.	Landlord and Tenant.
6.	• Conditional Sales and Chattel Mortgages.
7.	Interstate Commerce.
8.	Banks and Banking.
9.	Bankruptcy and Insolvency.
10.	Medical Jurisprudence.
The theses for the academic year 1905-6 treated
of these subjects:
1.	Remedies Available‘without Legal Process.
2.	Organization Respectively of the British^and the
American Courts.
3.	Suretyship and Guaranty.
4.	Set-off, Recoupment and Counterclaim.
5.	Mines, Minerals and Watercourses.
6.	Patents, Copyrights and Trademarks.
7.	Shipping and Admiralty Procedure.
LAW D^PARMKNT
35
8.	Laws Applicable to Perpetuities and Accumula-
tions.
9.	Interpretation and Construction of Statutes.
10.	Common Law and Statutory Liens.
Pollowing is a list of subjects chosen for theses in the
academic year 1906-7:
1.	Arbitration and Award.
2.	Novation and Assignment.
3.	Attachment and Garnishment.
4.	Eminent Domain and the Police Power.
5.	Trusts and Powers.
6.	Beneficial Associations—Unincorporated Societies
7.	Conflict of Laws or Private International Law.
8.	Extraordinary Legal Remedies.
9.	Judicial Sales.
10.	Procedure in Extradition.
Theses for the current academic year (1907-8) com-
prise the subjects following:
1.	Natural Persons in Relation to Society and
Government.
2.	Absolute and Relative Rights.
3.	Rules for the Study and Criticism of Cases.
4.	Remedies to be Sought Respectively by Actions
at Law and Suits in Equity.
5.	Forms of Summons, Declaration, Plea, Replica-
tion, Demurrer, Judgment and Execution; also,
of Mandamus, Prohibition, Scire Facias, Quo
Warranto and Habeas Corpus.
6.	Forms of Bill, Disclaimer, Plea, Answer and
Demurrer in Chancery.
7.	Appeal and Writ of Error, with Forms of Bill of
Exceptions, Assignment of Errors, Certiorari,
Supersedeas and Procedendo.
8.	Damages and Costs.
36	UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
9.	Abstracts of Title.
10.	Fundamental Rules of Parliamentary Practice.
It is sought to have students do as much original
work as practicable, for such work tends not only to
develop and energize the natural powers of the mind,
but also to inspire self-confidence, adding alertness to
initiative and forcefulness to action. Hence it is that
thesis work enters so largely into the law curriculum at
Notre Dame.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
The foregoing outline of the subjects of study will
enable prospective students to comprehend readily the
wide range and exceptional thoroughness of the law
curriculum.
On account of the unusually favorable location of the
University for diligent and persevering work, it is pos-
sible for industrious students to do at least a fourth more
in the year than is elsewhere attempted. The order of
topics, however, is not arbitrary. It is directory rather
than mandatory. There is really no definite beginning-or
ending of the law. It is a seamless whole, as strikingly
remarked by Bishop, and one may begin the study of it at
any time and with any subject, and so may he terminate
it. Yet it seems to be more logical and helpful to the
memory to follow the order above indicated. But should
it seem advisable at any time to change a subject from
one year to another, such change may be made at the
pleasure of the Faculty.
Instruction is given, it may be repeated, by means of
text-books, the study of cases, J lectures, 'quizzes in re-
view, weekly answers in writing to the more difficult
questions, monthly theses and moot-court work.
The lecture system, however, appears to be obsolete
or obsolescent in most of our American law schools, while
EAW DEPARTMENT
37
the use of text-books is coming more and more into favor.
Indeed, under the rules for admission to the bar in some
jurisdictions the applicant must have read a certain
number of them before being deemed eligible even for
examination.
Very few students are sufficiently familiar with pho-
nography to follow a lecturer intelligently and commit
legibly to paper what he says. Unless thus taken down
the lecture and the authorities cited in it are soon forgot-
ten. But to have it taken down in full by some one
proficient in shorthand, type-written copies of it being
subsequently multiplied and sold, would be contrary to
the rules in force where lectures are given, and far more
expensive than a text-book on the same subject. Owing
to the general nature of the law, there can be but very
little in a lecture that is not to be found also in some
text-book or report, which is far the more useful 'and
valuable.
The case system, or study of cases, is the favored
method of instruction in several eastern and some west-
ern law schools. It calls undoubtedly for careful study
and analytic reasoning, although not more so than the
examination and choice of authorities in moot-court
work. While retarding the progress of students to a
greater extent than do text-books, implying thereby
greater thoroughness, it fails nevertheless to present so
clear, comprehensive and systematic a view of the law.
Moreover it is a costlier system, so far as books are con-
cerned. The volumes of selected cases requisite for
study bear no comparison in utility with text-books, as
viewed with reference to subsequent office equipment
and practice. There is, however, a due appreciation of
the real merits of the case system at Notre Dame, and it
is followed as far as practicable in certain lines.
Law students have four recitations daily throughout
8
UNIVERSITY OF. NOTRE DAME
the year, based upon the text-books, the books of selected
cases, the questions answered in writing or the subjects
dealt with in the lectures. From one to two hours addi-
tional must be devoted daily to office and library work,
while four hours weekly are required for moot-court
practice and exercises of the lawr debating society. While
this society and the moot-court offer exceptional oppor-
tunity and strong incentive to acquire readiness in debate,
fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much
benefit may be derived from attending the regular classes
in elocution and oratory.
When a subject is regularly begun in the law course,
it is studied and kept before the class, with recitations
day by day at the same hour, until finished. It is be-
lieved that in this way the mind follows it more closely
and that is better understood than it would be if fre-
quently interrupted by the intervention of other and dis-
simlar subjects.
THE MOOT-COURT
All students are required to attend and participate in
the exercises of the moot-court. Students of the first
year are expected .to serve on juries and as witnesses,
while those of the second year assist the Seniors and
Graduates in the conduct of trials. The court is fully
organized, having a judge, clerk, state’s attorney,
sheriff, coroner and reporter. Pleadings are filed in the
clerk’s office, served and returned by the sheriff, brought
to an issue with due formality by the attorneys, and the
trial proceeds under the rules of evidence before a mem-
ber of the Faculty, acting as judge.
In addition to the moot-court, which corresponds to
the ordinary cicuit or trial court, there is a fully equip-
ped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk, master-in-
chancery, bailiff and reporter.
UW DEPARTMENT
39
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its judge,
clerk, attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in
their work. The statements of facts in the cases to be
tried are furnished bj7 the Faculty. Students acquire in
this way a very fair idea of the customary porcedure in
the regular courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether any
of them shows more care in the choice of books, or is
better adapted for the use of students. All the latest
reports of State and Federal courts are on its shelves, and
no difficulty is experienced at any time in finding the
cases needed for reference, thesis writing and moot-court
work. A great library, with a crowdingly large attend-
ance of students — too many to be personally known by
or have personal attention from the faculty—may often
be less available for use or accessible than a comparatively
small one. It happens sometimes in such cases that
many students are found vainly scrambling at the same
time to secure possession of a particular report or text-
book. Such experience fortunately does not fall to the
lot of the young men studying at Notre Dame. Not only
all the latest reports, Tut likewise the leading text-
books, are on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in
moot-court trials, but must not be carried to private
40	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
rooms, nor hidden in desks. This rule is rigidly en-
forced by the librarian. It is intended for the benefit
and to facilitate the work of the students in common, for
all have a right to feel reasonably certain that when a
book is needed it can be found in the library. ■ To search
desks or call at private rooms to inquire for it would
involve unwarranted loss of time, not to mention its viola-
tion of a fundamental principle of the law itself — equality
in the sharing of a common right or privilege. The
librarian is charged with the duty of taking care of the
books, maintaining silence and good order and aiding the
students in their possible quest for needed volumes in the
library. The number of books on its shelves may be
estimated at about, 4000, but so carefully have they been
selected that they may be said to surpass in practical
utility many libraries twice as large. It adjoins the law
lecture room. It is open practically all day and until a
reasonably late hour at night. The light and ventilation
are excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the University is open likewise at all reasonable hours to
law students. It contains about 35,000 volumes, to-
gether with the leading magazines and other current
publications.
The library privileges are on a generous scale, and
students are not specially charged for making proper use
of the books, although otherwise if any book be mis-
placed and lost or injured through negligence.
TEXT-BOOKS
The text-books enumerated in connection with the
f
subjects studied in the undergraduate years, as hereto-
fore outlined, are regarded generally as standard treatises,
§
LAW DEPARTMENT	41
and named with a view chiefly to imparting informa-
tion relative to legal bibliography, manifestly useful and
instructive to students. One of these books is selected
for their use by the Faculty in the treatment of each
subject. A change may be made from time to time and
a new book substituted for the old, as where the new is
deemed the better. No publishing house has any claim
whatever upon the patronage of students, apart from the
special merit of its publications and the consideration of
price, which must invariably be the lowest retail rate.
If a young man can learn the law from text-books al-
ready possessed by him he is at liberty to do so, although
it has been found invariably more convenient and satis-
factory for all students to use the same text-books in
preparing for recitation. In addition to the text-books,
students should procure a law dictionary, such as An-
derson’s, Black’s, Bouvier’s or Shumaker & Fongsdorf’s.
The books used as the bases for recitation in class
work are chosen to a considerable extent from the Horn-
book series on account of their comparative cheapness
and availability for reference and review. As a rule,
however, they are narrower than the range of study.
This has in reality a much wider sweep in lectures,
quizzes, explanations and moot-court work. Of course,
text-books of merit outside of that series, or from differ-
ent publishing houses, are also used. In the study of
principles, however, it ought to be [possible for students
to grasp the key that unlocks the mysteries and tests the
logic of all law books.
The books specially used by students for the purposes
indicated are tbought by and [belong to themselves.
They are the exclusive property of the purchasers and
kept in their own rooms. They may form afterward the
nuclei of libraries when the owners enter upon the prac-
tice of law. They are purchased from the publishers in
42
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
job lots at about the same prices that retail dealers pay.
They are ordered by the superintendent of the student’s
office and can there be bought at the prices fixed by the
publishers. Under the circumstances, it is quite super-
fluous and may be a source of loss for law students to
procure books before coming here. The cost of books
may be estimated approximately at $20 a year.
TUITION, BOARD, LODGING AND EXPENSES
As already stated, students of this University live
within its precincts during the academic year. Some
have private rooms and others lodge in dormitories.
Those who have attained to or passed the second year of
academic studies or their equivalent, whether in the law
or some collegiate course, are entitled afterward to free
rooms. Those below that grade lodge in the dormitories
or pay $50 a year extra for rooms, as they choose. In
other words, a preparatory or high school graduate ranks
as a freshman. After one year’s study, whether in the
law or any other course, he attains to sophomore stand-
ing and becomes entitled thenceforward to a free room.
Should he insist, however, upon having a room from the
first, there would be an additional expense of $50 for the
freshman year.
The academic year is divided into two sessions, and
the cost of tuition for each is $50 in advance. This di-
vision, however, makes very little difference in fact, and
the regular work of the University passes from one to
the other without special feature or interruption. The
cost of board, lodging, washing, mending, etc., is $150
for each session. Thus tuition, board, lodging and all
the customary necessaries of student life amount to $200
a session, or $400 a year.
- The matriculation fee is paid but once, no matter
how many years afterward the student remains. It
uw DEPARTMENT
43
amounts to $10, and such also is the final graduation
charge. This is paid prior to Commencement, when the
student receives his diploma.
The diploma evidences graduation and entitles the
recipient to admission to the Bar, on motion, without
examination. He appears personally before the Supreme
Court, takes the proscribed oath of office and receives, on
payment of the clerk’s fee, the certificate licensing him
to practice as an attorney and counselor at law.
The .'diplomas of law - schools, no matter how long
established or widely known,- are not accepted in lieu of
examination by the courts of states 'foreign to the juris-
diction in which they are granted. And even the courts
of the States in which they are conferred quite generally
decline to receive them as evidencing qualifications for
admission to the Bar. There 'is a growing tendency in
this 'direction, and all graduates in [law should qualify
themselves to enter the profession through the recognized,
portal of a rigid and searching examination.
In this rural retreat the work of an earnest and dili-
gent student ought to be exceptionally fruitful and
effective. He ought to do here in a year as much as is
ordinarily accomplished in twice that time in some of the
law schools in the larger cities. This fact should not
be overlooked in considering the question of expense.
Moreover, a student here seldom finds occasion to spend
money, and his incidental disbursements are exceptionally
light. Considering the wholesome fare, comfortable
quarters and excellent accommodations that he has,
not less than his attractive surroundings, so inspiring
and favorable for study, it cannot fairly be questioned
that his annual expenses at Notre- Dame are quite
moderate. Tor like accommodations, services and ad-
vantages, the charges are said to be almost twice as
great in some other places.
0
0
44	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
Additional copies of this announcement and the gen-
eral catalogue of the University will be forwarded to any
address, free of charge, on application to
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
President of the University,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Notre Dame Scholastic
Is a 2 8-page paper devoted to the interests of the stu-
dents and published by them every week during term
time. The journal is in the hands of a student board of
editors and students do all the writing for it. Work
done for The Scholastic is regarded as supplementary to
the theoretical work of the English courses; hence the
character of the articles,—essays on literary subjects,
biographical sketches, short stories, exercises in verse,
book-reviews, etc. As contributors are expected to pre-
pare their own copy for the press and to do their own
proof-reading, they gain no small amount of practical
experience.
Although The Scholastic is published chiefly for the
sake of the students attending the University, their
parents and all former students will see matters of interest
in its columns. Reports of the popular lecture course and
of events happening at Notre Dame and other colleges,
personal notices, athletic notes, reviews of the work
done in the debating and in the classes, find place in
the paper and keep parents and others informed about
matters that concern their children and friends.
The Scholastic will be sent to any address for $1.50 per
annum.
Address all commuications to
*
The Notre Dame Scholastic,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
BIRD’S-EYE VIEW OF UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
A
o