Series III.
Number III.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
1907-1908
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
January, 1908
Ijntered at the PostofS ce, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class matter
July 17, 1905.
The Catholic Point of View*
BY
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.
President of the University of Notre Dame
SOME years ago I had the honor of going to the
State University at Bloomington Indiana, to give a
chapel talk to the students. It was for me a
pleasant visit, but it had quite passed out of my mind
when last spring — some six months after I had been
called to the presidency of Notre Dame — I received a
. letter from Doctor Kinnaman, then Chairman of your
exective committee. The Doctor was evidently unaware
that my work had been changed, and his letter was
addressed in an impersonal way to the president of Notre
Dame. It informed me that a number of very charming
ladies and gentlemen were to foregather in this town on
this day to discuss matters of interest to school teachers.
The Doctor said that a statement of the Catholic view-
point regarding the public schools would be very accepta-
ble if presented by a peaceful man who could be trusted
not to set the house afire by his rhetoric. And he went
on to say that some time before a rather nice person had
c
gone down from Notre Dame into the hill country where
the State University is and had stated the Catholic
position about the bible in such a way that while many
present did not agree with his views they all felt that no
harm had been done and that the spirit of moderation with
which Doctor Kinnaman was good enough to credit the
speaker had rather impressed him. “Now, if we could
* This address was delivered at the fifty-third annual session
of the Indiana State Teachers’ Association, held at Indianapolis.
All the speakers were limited to twenty minutes; hence the
fragmentary character of the treatment of this great theme.
4	BULLETIN OE THE
have this man come to us to state the Catholic viewpoint
regarding the public schools, I feel that we would all be
pleased and helped.” Of course, it was a very subtle
■compliment and I replied confessing that I was the person
to whom he referred, and that I would gladly come and
talk to the teachers of Indiana, for I felt that I should
be able to say the essential things on the subject he
mentioned without giving offense.
I wish to say with the utmost sincerity that I am grate-
ful for the invitation to address you to-day on this
.subject. It is one of the great signs of modern progress
that people no longer feel obliged to hate one another for
the love of God. There was a day when.a discussion of
this subject would inevitably give out more heat than
ight, but among earnest and cultivated people that day
has happily passed. I am grateful, too, for the oppor-
tunity of expressing my profound admiration for the
ladies and gentlemen who teach in our public schools. I
have frequently had occasion to say how cordial is my
interest in the noble men and women who are impressing
their minds and character on the plastic souls of the
children of our country. It must be understood at once
that this feeling is very general among the clergy and
laity of the Church to which I belong and that whenever
■criticism of the public schools is offered at all it is offered
solely as criticism of the theory on which the public
school is based and has no reference whatever to the
officials or teachers connected with the schools. This
much being premised, we may now look into the histor-
ical development of this question.
The public school system was parochial in its origin.
The first schools and indeed all the schools until a com-
paratively recent date were denominational in character.
In most of the state constitutions it is distinctly enunci-
ated that the object of schools established' at public
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME "	5
expense is to give instruction in virtue and knowledge.
Accordingly, in these schools prayers were offered, the
bible was read, and comments reflecting the teacher’s
personal opinion on religious matters were offered. I
distinctly remember that in the public school which I
attended as a small boy this was the case. Then a
considerable section of the people began to object to the
praying, and that was dropped. The objection soon
extended to the teacher’s comment upon the reading of
the bible, and that passed away. Finally, objection was-
made to the use of a particular version of the bible, and
the upshot was that in most public schools the reading of
the bible has been discontinued. The objection at the
present time is that through no fault of the teachers but
simply as an inherent defect of the system this total
absence of religious teaching of any kind is virtually a.
teaching of irreligion, and that some further change
ought to be made in our schools since they have such a
large part in the formation of our children at a time when
it is most necessary that these children should be under
constant religious influence.
Now, it should be quite possible for us to discuss this
matter intelligently and freely without either giving or
taking offense. The majority of the American people
are unmistakably satisfied with the present attitude of
the public school system toward religious instruction.
Indeed, the majority are so strongly attached to this
system that they even consider it unpatriotic in us to
venture criticism or suggest change. But there is a
large minority, including great numbers of people who
are not of my faith, who feel that since they are paying
their share of the school taxes, and since they cannot
conscientiously avail themselves of the public schools-
as at present constituted, there ought to be such change
introduced into the system as would enable them to
6
BULLETIN OE THE
educate their children without having to bear the burden
of double taxation. They feel that the majority has no
right to be impatient with them when they express
criticism, for they feel that as citizens and as taxpayers
they have the same interests and the same rights as
■others either to approve or to disapprove. And this
minority makes it very plain that like the majority, it
wants schools free, numerous and well equipped with the
best teachers, the best methods, and the best apparatus.
They ask, ‘ ‘ Why not introduce changes into the system
if it can be shown that these changes would be for the
common good? Did wisdom die with our fathers who
a half century ago chrystalized the various heterogenous
schools of the country into the present system? Must
their enactment which met the needs of their time with
fair success stand for our time and for all times? ’ ’
Now, ladies and gentlemen, it will not do to think
lightly of this position held by a large minority. If you
cannot accept the Catholic view, it is at least incumbent
upon you to respect its sincerity. I beleve that if there
ever wTas a case in which earnestness and sincerity were
shown in dissenting from a popular opinion this is that
case. There are a million children in the Catholic parish
schools of this country. I believe that $25 is the general
estimate of the cost of educating a child for one year,
and, if so, these parochial schools are doing $25,000,000
worth of work each year. But suppose for the sake of
security that we fix the cost of the parish school system
at the absurdly low figure of $15,000,000 a year, and
then reflect on what these figures mean. They mean
that our people out of their poverty and their faith have
in obedience to a conscientious scruple upreared a system
•of schools at a cost which staggers the imagination. If
we could make use of the public schools generally and
■divert this money into colleges and universities instead of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	7
%
into primary schools we should be able to establish each
year a university more richly endowed than the Univer-
sity of Chicago; and in half a century we should have such
universities sprinkled over the whole country in every
state of the union. I believe that you will agree with me
that, whether the Catholic scruple is well founded or not
it is worthy of the admiration of all who respect manly
character and loyalty to conscience, and that in view of
all the circumstances it is the most remarkable fact in the
current history of our country.
What, then, is the mighty impulse behind this move-
ment? Why does the Catholic, whether professional
man or laborer, willingly bear his part of this great bur-
den ? It is because he feels that the growth in religious
knowledge and practice ought to keep pace with growth
in secular knowledge, that religious training is an
integral and essential part of the work of education, that
the faith which he cherishes with tender and enthusiastic
devotion is the most precious heritage that he can trans-
mit to his children, and, therefore, if the burden were
many times heavier than it is, he would gladly bear it in
order that his children might be confirmed and strength-
ened for life in the faith of their fathers and in the
practice of virtue. It is sometimes believed that the paro-
chial school would disappear if the priest lost his enthu-
siasm for it, and that the laity would gladly avail them-
selves of the secular schools if allowed to do so. I assure
you that, with exceptions here and there, the contrary is
the case. It is the parent above all who demands that his
child shall attend a religious school, that he shall receive
carefully graded instruction in Christian Doctrine as
regularly as in Arithmetic or Grammar or Reading, that
he shall grow up under a discipline of reverence and
obedience as his fathers before him did. I should like to
lay emphasis on this point. If the laymen were not
bulletin of the
heart and soul with the parochial school no f ulmin ation
from the pulpit would be able to continue and develop’
the parochial school from generation to generation. It is
no desire on the part of the clergy to stand in the way of
a favorite national institution. It is no unthinlcing echo
by the layman of the lesson he has memorized from his
pastor. It is a fundamental difference in the conception
of what properly constitutes the business of a school. It
is the deep and earnest conviction that side by side with
secular training and interpenetrating and coloring it at
every point must be found religious instruction and
practice such as the public school by the very nature of'
its organization is forbidden to* give. And remember, as
I have already said, it is no reflection upon the teachers
or officials of the public schools that this sort of training
is impossible in those schools. If you attempted to give-
such training you would inevitably be invading the rights-
of conscience. We no more blame you for this condition
than we should blame a marble monument for not being-
a tree. We simply say that with all our admiration for
your intellectual equipment, your religious temper and
your fine moral character we cannot use the public schools
because our conscience demands of us that our children be
educated under a fundamentally different system. Doctor
James A. Burns, C. S. C., President of Holy Cross
College, Washington, has recently stated the three chief’
principles underlying this difference of conception. I
shall briefly summarize them for you. ‘
I.	There is the principle of the moral training of the
will. We are all agreed as to the necessity of this, and
both schools do their utmost to insure such training, but
immediately the question arises, where shall we seek for
the norm of moral action in all the details of life ? Is it
to be merely the natural law, the dictate of reason? If
it is something above the natural law then it is definite
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	9
religious instruction which, under the theory of- their
organization our public schools are forbidden to give.
On the other hand, if it is only the natural law, our
people say that it is wholly insufficient and their children
must be trained minutely in morals according to the
truths of Revelation and the teaching of the Catholic
Church. It is easily seen that conscience is involved
here and that, with the best will in the world, compromise
is impossible.
II.	The public school, by the very nature of its
organism, cannot give definite and systematic instruction
in Christian Doctrine. It is impossible to enunciate a
single distinctively Christian truth without doing
violence to the religious conviction of a section of the
people. Now we are convinced that definite and system-
atic instruction in the teachings of the Church has an
important bearing on the eternal welfare of our children,
and if we were called upon to choose between such
instruction and the most elaborate education in mere
secular knowledge we should not hesitate for a moment
to prefer the religious instruction. Here again is an
organic defect, as we think, in the public school and one
of such vast importance that it cannot be overestimated.
III.	Then there is the subtle and all powerful thing
called atmosphere. Wherever artists are wont to live
and work and talk together you have an artistic atmos-
phere, and children who grow up in such surroundings
naturally take to a career of art or at least have a keen
appreciation of art without conscious effort. Wherever
literary people form a circle apart there is a subtle
influence in the direction of bookishness that touches all
who come within that circle. So, too, wherever a
school exists for the professed object of religious train-
ing, where teachers and pupils are of one'faith, where
religious songs and practices have their place in the
IO
BUELETIX OF THE
exercises of the day, where pictures and statues speak
their mute messages to the eye and arouse appropriate
emotions, you have a definitely colored religious atmos-
phere, the simple breathing of which does a work which
no mere instruction could ever do. These influences are
recognized by psychologists as the most permanent and
the most powerful in the formation of religious character.
As a man can never wholly get away from his ancestry,
so he can never get away wholly from his own past, and
where truth has been planted and nurtured in emotion it
is sure to abide
I feel that my time is about up and that I can only
indicate one or two other points that I should be glad to
develop. First, then, it seems to me that this moral and
religious training which the Church considers of para-
mount importance is of equal importance to our country.
In organizing her school system America surely must
have asked herself among other questions, ‘1 What process
of education will yield me the best type of citizen?”
Now a man may be a good tax-paying, law-abiding
citizen, even though he spells like President Roosevelt
and writes as poor a hand as Horace Greeely, but he can-
not be a good citizen if his moral character is crooked.
One other suggestion which I am sure you will accept
in the kindly and conciliatory spirit in which it is offered
is this: If Americans of all classes are ever to understand
each other on this subject all unnecessary irritation
ought to be carefully avoided. Our Catholic people
must cease to use such expressions as “the Godless
public schools, ’5 and must deny themselves lurid tirades
against an imaginary condition of discipline and morals.
The friends of the public school on their part ought to
avoid certain offences of taste and judgment, as I think,
in the conduct of the schools. Commencement exercises
ought not to be held in churches of any denomination
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	II
whatever. Clergy of whatever race, creed or previous
condition of servitude ought not to make commencement
addresses. Teachers, even in Bird Center, ought not to
manifest intolerence of any xcligious doctrine or practice,
ought not to say, for example, that we worship the
Blessed Virgin, that indulgences are permissions to
commit sin, that priests take money for forgiving sins,
that Catholics are opposed to the reading of the Bible,
that we are ignorant and that our Church fosters
ignorance, that we-believe the Pope cannot commit sin,
and so on. They ought not to give partisan statements
of such historical events as the Inquisition or the
Reformation, and they ought carefully to avoid partisan
text-books. It is a source of pride and gratification to
me to observe that these offences always unwittingly
committed, as I believe, are becoming more and more rare
and that consequently the temper of my own people with
regard to the public schools is becoming more and more
fair and judicial. If all of us who have the blessed
work of education to do would show ourselves more
largely sympathetic, more broad-minded and cosmo-
politan, the solution of the problems which torment our
minds would be considerably hastened and a general
spirit of sweet reasonableness would replace the spirit of
acrid and passionate controversy.
Let me conclude as I began. I have attempted to
state the Catholic view of the public school as frankly
and as inoffensively as I can, and I am deeply grateful
to the officials and to the broad American spirit which
has made this possible.
KNOWW THE WORLD O VER
The University ojf
Notre Dame
Notre Dame, Indiana
OFFERS COURSES IN Ancient and Modern Languages,
History and Economics, Journalism, General Science, Chemistry,
Biology, Pharmacy, Mechanical Engineering, Civil Engineering,
Electrical Engineering, Architecture, Law, Practical Mechanics,
Applied Electricity, Elocution, Parliamentary Law, Artistic Drawing,
Music, Commerce, Phonography, Typewriting, Telegraphy, Physical
Culture.
NOTRE DAME is recognized by all educators, by the press and
by the public as a college whose work is of the same grade as that
of the most highly endowed colleges or the best state universities.
Its atmosphere is strongly Catholic and no young man who has ever
attended the University can escape its influence in after life.
The dicipEne is paternal, and aims at giving young men the fullest
liberty consistent with earnest study and manly Christian character.
Freshman and Preparatory students may secure rooms at reasonable
rates. Rooms free to Seniors, Juniors, or Sophomores of any
collegiate course.
- £
Catalogue sent on application. Address:
The Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
President of the University
Notre Dame, Indiana.
BIRD’S-EYE VIEW OF UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
NEEDS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Visitors to Notre Dame judge from the appearance of
the buildings and grounds that the University has no
need of money. It is, nevertheless, absolutely without
endowment, and its work is seriously hampered because
it has no resources except the fees of students. There
are two scholarships and the interest from these founda-
tions is used in educating and boarding two students.
There are over three thousand (3,000) Catholic
students in the non - Catholic colleges of America, and
very many of these will lose their faith, and all will be
weakened in that faith, because our people look upon
collegiate institutions as the property of private corpora-
tions which are to be left to take care of themselves.
Notre Dame asks«for scholarships for boys who can
not pay the expense of education, and who, therefore, are
obliged to go to non - Catholic colleges to the detriment
of their faith. A foundation of $8,000 will educate and
board a student as long as the University exists. As one
bursar is graduated another can take his place. The
founder of the scholarship, of course, always has the
privilege of appointing the student.
Foundations for Scholarships are a very pressing need.
We lack money for a library building, and for two
more dwelling halls like Sorin Hall.
There is no Library Fund for the purchase of new
books.
The names of *the benefactors will be given to all
foundations.
St. Mary’s College and Academy, Notre Dame, Indiana.
A thoroughly equipped College and Academy for young women, offering college courses in Art?
Music, Science, English, and Classics, supplemented with lectures by leading educators. Particular
attention given to building up the moral character of the students. Degrees conferred. Certificate
from College Preparatory Department is recognized by leading Colleges.
Write for free booklet “ J” to the Directress, ST MARY’S COLLEGE AND ACADEMY, Notre Dame, Indiana