UNIVERSITY OFNOTF?E DAME
Notre Dame, Indiana
Series IV.
Number 1.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
75 A
GENERAL CATALOGUE
1907-1908
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
July, 1908
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-
class matter, July 17, 1905.
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
*
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley line
runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.

CALENDAR FOR 1908-09
r
1908.
■SEPTEMBER 8, ] 9, 10. <	" Entrance Examinations.
11.	Preparatory School opens.
■	18.	Colleges open.
?	20.	Reading of University Regulations in all the
	Halls.
OCTOBER	1.	Examinations of Conditioned Students.
'	13.	Founder’s Day. No classes.
29.	Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
NOVEMBER 1.	Feast of all Saints. No classes.
2, 3.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
26.	Thanksgiving Day. No classes.
DECEMBER 5.	The William P. Breen Medal Orations.
&	Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No
1.	classes. President’s Day. No classes.
17, 18.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
19.	Christmas Vacation Begins.
1909. JANUARY	5.	Colleges open.
FEBRUARY . 7.	State Oratorical Contest.
22.	Washington’s Birthday. No classes.
26, 27.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
17.	St. Patrick’s Day. No classes.
19.	St. Joseph’s Day. No classes.
APRIL	11.	Easter. No Easter Vacation.
12.	Easter Monday. No classes.	•
26, 27.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.	.
MAY	20.	Latest Date for handing in Prize Essays and
	Graduating Theses in all the Colleges.
30.	Decoration Day. No classes.
JUNE	1. -	j The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations. | The Patrick T. Barry Medal Recitations.
7, 12.	Examination of Candidates for Graduation.
13.	Baccalaureate Sermon.
14, 15.	General Examinations.
16.	Commencement. Bachelor’s Orations. Com-
17.	mencement Address, 8:00 P. M. Graduation Exercises, 8:00 A. M.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
v President,
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WILLIAM' R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C,
Bro: ALBEUS, C. S. C,
Treasurer. •
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,	‘
■	President.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Vice-President. ,
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Director of Studies.
Rev. TIMOTHY R. MURPHY, C. S. C,
Prefect of Discipline.
Rev. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Bro. PAUL, C. S. C,	'
* Secretary.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
Rev. JAMES FRENCH, C. S. C.
Rev. GEORGE O’CONNOR, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
Rev. DOMINIC O’MALLEY, C. S. C.
Rev. LEO HEISER, C. S. C.
Rev. GEORGE MARR, C. S. C.
Bro. LEANDER, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL
Rev. JOHN FARLEY, C. S. C.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.
Mr. WALTER O’DONNELL, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
Bro. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
Bro. HUGH, C. S. C.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.
Bro. VINCENT, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
Bro. JUST, C. S. C.
Bro. VITAL, C. S. C.
Bro. GEORGE, C. S. C.
Bro. LOUIS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.
Bro. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. CELESTINE, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
Bro. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
Bro. ERNEST, C. S. C.
Bro. SEBASTIAN, C. S. C.
Bro. BEDE, C. S. C.
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
«
Special English.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Special Philosophy.
Rev. TIMOTHY R. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C..
Biology and Geology.
Rev. JOHN BERNARD SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek. <
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. MICHAEL MATTHIAS OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek. ’
. Rev. JULIUS NIEUWLAND; C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Botany.
f Rev. GEORGE JOSEPH MARR, C. S. C.,
Latin.
/ Rev. LEO JOSEPH HEISER, C. S. G,
Physiology and Bacteriology.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
Political Economy and History.
JOHN BAPTIST DELAUNAY, C. S. C.,
French.
Bro. BASIL, C. S. G,
Director of the Department of Music.
WALTER O’DONNELL, C. S. C.
Latin.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. G,
Piano.
JAMES FARNHAM EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Librarian.	.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
MARTIN McCUE, M. S.
Civil Engineering ..(Mid Astronomy.
Dr. JAMES CHARLES MONAGHAN, Ph. D,
Economics. ■
TIMOTHY EDWARD HOWARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Lazv.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S.,
Drawing.
JEROME JOSEPH GREEN, M. E. E. E, *
Electrical Engineering and Physics.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
M echanical Engineering.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
M athematics.
GALLITZIN FARABAUGH, A. B, LL. B,
’ History. „
ANDREW ANDERSON,
Law.
MICHAEL J. SHEA, A. M.,
Latin.
ARTHUR LUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.	•
ROBERT LEE GREEN, Ph. G.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
SHERMAN STEELE, Litt. B., LL. B,
Law. •
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
* Leave of absence during 1907-’O8.
JOHN BAPTIST RENO, A. M., LL. B.,
Parliamentary Law and Debating. ’
WILLIAM E. FARRELL, A. B„
Elocution.
■ ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B.,
Architecture.
EDWARD HERMANN SCHWAB, LL. M.,
Law.
ARTHUR FUNK, B. S.,
Physics.
JOSEPH A. DWAN, M. E. E. E,
Assistant in Physics and Electricity.
JOSEPH LANTRY, C. E.,
Assistant in Civil Engineering.
JOSEPH SINNOTT, M. E. E. E.,
Electricity.
JOHN BERNARD BERTELING, M. D.,
Attending Physician.
WILLIAM BUDD KELLEY,
. Shopwork.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
11
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Mari vault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the 'University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
Confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree ^hall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences, and
in law and medicine, as is customary in other universi-
ties in the United States.”
12
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-
halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-
rooms are in this building. The Library and the Bishops’
Memorial Hall are also here temporarily. This building,
like all the others of the University, is lighted by elec-
tricity and gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of
the first floor are decorated with mural paintings by
Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred’Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 in height from the floor to
the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 55,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
departments of literary criticism, history, political science
and the Greek and Latin classics are well represented.
Special libraries containing reference works on technical
subjects are provided in the Colleges of Engineering and
Science. The College of Law has a complete library of
its own. .Ample reading room is provided in the main
library. The best literary magazines and reviews, as
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
well as the current numbers of scientific ‘ and technical
journals are kept on file. Students have access to the,
Library from 8:00 a. m. to 9:00 p. m.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theater. The
Theater is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It
will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent in
public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also presented
in this theater. The dramatic clubs of the University
present five plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south* of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three stories
in height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum' containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens. The departments of
Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering’,
Philosophy, Botany and Biology have recitation rooms
and laboratories in this building. The equipment for
each of these departments is extensive and complete.
Description of the equipment will be found later in this
catalogue.
THE MUSEUM	„
connected with the departments named above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological col-
lection on the second floor at present fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
14
BULLETIN OF THE
genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large
collection of representative vertebrate skeletons forms a
, considerable part of the Museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the
other of Canada. There is also a second collection of
the woods and fruits of the United States, almost com-
plete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a series
of cases on each side of the buildine;. In one series is a
carefully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large geological collec-
tion; some of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil
remains of animal and plant life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
*
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture rooms. The second floor is
occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and contains
a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern drug store,
a lecture room and museuni, a library for pharmaceutical
publications, and a general stock room. The general
inorganic, organic and elementary chemical laboratories
are on the third floor. Each laboratory is provided with
ample hood accommodations, and each desk is furnished
with water, gas and suction.	•
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the me
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	15
chanicaf laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop and
foundry. The second floor provides the shop for wood
work and also contains a well lighted drawing room
where students in designing may consult complete work-
ing drawings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Labora-
tories and is designed for an equatorial telescope and
for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial telescope
now in the building is intended for students of astronomy,
and is in use whenever favorable weather permits.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior, or Sophomore, standing in any of the
Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the first floor
there is a chapel, a law lecture room and a law library.
The building is lighted with electricity and heated with
steam. In the basement are. recreation rooms and bath
rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and it is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation
rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted with elec-
tricity and gas and heated with steam. For room-rent
and care of the room a fee is charged.
16	BULLETIN OF THE
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of age
and upwards. There is a common study hall, a common
lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms in which each
student has an alcove curtained to secure personal
privacy. Experience shows that the discipline of these
common rooms works admirable effects on students who
have not yet contracted solid habits of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Administra-
tion Building. It is in all respects similar to Brownson
Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
«
St. Joseph's Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively to
living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The con-
ditions for admission to this hall are: (1) The payment
of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the first of
August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter. The
waiting in no wise interferes with the student's work,
and all- the educational advantages are open to him. It
is to be regretted that through the lack of endowment
the University can offer only a limited number of such
opportunities each year. It is necessary to apply earlv
for these appointments.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	17
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for the
use of students. during illness. The sick are cared for
by Sisters of Holy Cross, and the University physician
visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on -
the ground; it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
and shower-baths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than three thousand dollars to
the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten acres
of ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, C. E., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University, Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall, the
Community House, the Presbytery, and Saint Edward’s
Hall.
18	BULLETIN OF THE
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his own
curriculum conformably to his natural liking, the career
in life he may have in view, or the determinate intel-
lectual bent developed during his secondary school years;
but, though he is free to elect his own studies, he has not,
however, unlimited freedom in this respect. The prin-
ciple of general election is modified. Lest the young
Freshman in his inexperience choose unwisely, he is
aided in making his choice of studies by being permitted
to select from among a number of parallel programs
leading to baccalaureate degrees. Sixteen programs are
open for his choice in the Colleges, each embracing
courses which, in the opinion of the Faculty, contribute
best to cultural, scientific or professional knowledge.
These programs are, in some cases, made elastic by the
introduction of elective courses, especially in the Junior
and Senior years. Students who wish to spend a limited
time in study and cannot complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special 'students
and elect any courses for which their preparation has
fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for attendance at recitations and the time
necessary for preparation of recitations. One hour of
recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours of
laboratory work.. The minimum number of credit hours
which a student must carry is sixteen, the maximum
number which he may carry is twenty. Students who
wish to take more work than is indicated by the maxi-
mum requirements must apply by formal petition to the
Faculty for the requisite permission.
z
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by a
properly attested certificate, of ability to enter on the
courses of the Freshman year. The specific subjects re-
quired for entrance will be found later in this catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admis-
sion to the University are held’ at Notre Dame in
September, at the beginning of the Fall Term and in
January at the beginning' of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations
in one or more of the subjects required for admission to
any college program may, at the discretion of the
Faculty, be admitted to his class conditioned, to make
up his deficiency by extra study within one school year.
Only when the conditions are removed will the student
be admitted to full standing in his class.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited
to the State Universities, will be admitted without exam-
ination to the Freshman year of any program to which
their preparatory studies entitle them.
Certificates of work done in public High Schools or
in private Preparatory Schools will 'not be accepted
instead of examinations, unless the applicant has passed
the final examinations after full courses in his school,
and the Faculty of the University are satisfied with the
standing of the school.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing who
are required to take examinations must pass, in addition
to the usual entrance examinations, an examination in
the work already done by the classes they desire to enter.
20
BULLETIN OF THE
The additional subjects may be found in the several
programs of studies described later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present certifi-
cates from other colleges or universities may be received
at the discretion of the Faculty with or without examina-
tion as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by the
University will be found described later in this catalogue.
Written theses and final examinations are demanded of
all candidates for degrees. One full scholastic year of
resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through
four scholastic years. In the College of Letters and
Arts one of three degrees is conferred on an under-
graduate—Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of Letters
(Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.)—dependent
on the special program of studies the candidate selects.
The College of Science offers five degrees for choice to
undergraduates—Bachelor of Science (B. S.), Bachelor
of Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.), Bachelor of Science
in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph.
G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.). The College of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
Engineering offers three degrees—Civil Engineer .(C.
E.), Mechanical Engineer (M. E.), and Mechanical
Engineer in Electrical Engineering (M. E. E. E.).
Two degrees are offered by the College of Architecture
—Bachelor of Science in Architecture (B. S. A.), and
Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering (B. S.
A. E.). The College of Law offers the degree of
Bachelor of Laws (LL. B.). In the College of Music
one degree is offered, Bachelor of Music (B. M.). In
order to obtain this degree the candidate must have
studied music in the University for one complete year.
He must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of four
instruments mentioned in the courses described later,
and a practical mastery of one of them. He shall pass a
written examination in harmony, counterpoint and com-
position, and he must submit to the examiner two
original compositions: (a) A fugue for full orchestra, or
for four voices with independent orchestral accompani-
ment; (b) a composition in the free form (sonata or
rondo) for pianoforte, or a trio (pianoforte, violin and
violincello).	'
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one com-
plete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who make
application to the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study for the privilege of pursuing advanced work. All
work must be approved by this Committee. One year of
residence, at least, is required of candidates who have
received their Bachelor’s degree at another college.
Those who have received their Bachelor’s degree from
22
BULLETIN OF THE
Notre Dame, may, in some cases to be determined by
the Committee, obtain the Master’s degree for work done
in absentia. * One major and one or two minor courses
will constitute the curriculum, forming a consistent, co-
ordinated plan of advanced work pursued with some
definite aim. On completion of the required work the
candidate must pass a satisfactory examination in writing
under the professors who give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a dis-
sertation of notable merit on some topic connected with
his major subject, the thesis to contain in the minimum
five thousand words. The subject of the thesis must be
announced to the Committee by December 1, and sub-
mitted for examination by May 15. Five printed or
typewritten copies of the thesis must be presented to the
University to be placed in the library. The fee for exam-
ination of work done in absentia is twenty-five dollars.
The fee for this degree is fixed at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity work before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these years must be spent at Notre Dame
and one may be passed in some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactory examina-
tions in French and German on entrance. The work for
the degree shall consist of one major and two minor
courses of instruction approved by the Committee. Re-
search study shall form the most important part of the
.candidate’s work. On completion of his work the can-
didate must pass minute examinations on the three
subjects of his curriculum and must defend his disserta-
*No degree is conferred in honorem except the deqree of
Doctor of Laws, (LL. D.).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
23
tion before the whole Faculty. The thesis must be
printed and one hundred and fifty copies presented to
the University. A copy of the thesis must be handed to
the Committee one month before the examinations. The
degree will not be conferred for merely faithful work,
and not for miscellaneous study, but for original research
and for high attainment in one branch of study. The
fee for this degree is fixed at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates for a
degree by following the prescribed courses, of .any pro-
gram may register as special students and attend any of
the courses of instruction for which their previous aca-
demic training has fitted them. Such special students
are governed by the same regulations, and discipline as
the other undergraduates. They are. required to pass
the same examinations in the courses they pursue as the
other students. In exceptional cases men of mature age,
who have been out of school or college for several years,
but whose training in practical affairs has been suffi-
ciently educative, will be accepted as special students by
satisfying the Faculty of their ability to pursue with
profit any course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may re-
ceive on application certificates stating their proficiency
in the courses they have pursued.
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has at present only four foundations
which yield revenues for the support and tuition of four
students annually. Assignment of these scholarships is
made under restrictions indicated with each gift. No
student will be continued in the enjoyment of a scholar-
ship whose superiority in college work is not clearly
indicated in his first year of residence. Nor will a
24	BULLETIN OF THE
।	■ B ‘	1’5/
student who has incurred serious censure by breach of
the regulations of the University be considered again as
a candidate for a scholarship.
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of endow-
ment makes it impossible for the University to give
place to a greater number of deserving students who are
not able to pay the charg*es of board and tuition. Under
conditions indicated on page 16 of this catalogue a
limited number of student-waiters can be received at
reduced rates. Certain clerkships in the University
offices and positions in the libraries are also open to
worthy students. Information regarding the assignment
of these places will be furnished by the President. The
University is doing* all in its power to assist students in
narrow circumstances. The friends of Notre Dame are
asked to assist in this work.
THE JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Edward Johnson, of Watertown, Wis-
consin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the income
of which aids in the support of one student annually.
By the terms of the gift assignment is made only to a
student who intends to enter the priesthood.
THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
The Reverend Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Pennsyl-
vania, bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899. The
terms of the bequest specify that the income shall be
used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Ford, of Chicago, gave to the
University certain properties for the maintenance of
worthy students. The income arising from this gift now
supports fully two students annually. By the 'wish of
the donor nominations for these scholarships are made
from St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
PRIZES .
The following prizes and honors within the gift of
the University are awarded annually under conditions
named below. Any of these prizes may be withheld by
the Faculty if the student incur serious censure for
violating any of the regulations of the University.
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS	.
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who has
obtained the best record in the Senior year of the Classi-
cal Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. William J.
Quan, of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition that
the record of the student is notably good in all the
courses of instruction prescribed for the Senior year.
THE MASON MEDAL FOR CARROLL HALL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of Chi-
cago, is awarded each year to the student of Carroll
Hall whose scholastic record is superior to that of his
fellows. Observance of the University, regulations counts
in the award. The prize may be withheld if in the
opinion of the Faculty the record of the student has not
reached a high standard.
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of
Covington, Kentucky, is awarded every year to the under-
graduate who presents the best dissertation in English.
Essays offered in competition may be on any subject
approved by the head of the Department of English.
Those offered for graduation may be presented in compe-
tition. The Faculty will not award the prize, if, in the
opinion of the judges selected, the best essay is not
notably meritorious.
26
BULLETIN OF THE
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
Breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded to
the student who excels in oratory. The award is made
by a committee of three selected by the Faculty and after
a public competition. The winner represents the Univer-
sity in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest held the
first Friday in every February. No student may receive
the Breen Medal more than once, but the winner of this
prize may compete again for the honor of representing
the University in the State Contest.
&
ELLSWORTH C. HUGHES MEDAL FOR CIVIL ENGINEERING
A gold medal presented every year by Mr. A. S.
Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, in memory of his son,
who was a member of the Sophomore Class in 1889, is
awarded to the student of the Department of Civil
Engineering who has obtained the best record in all the
courses prescribed in the program. The medal is
awarded only when the student’s record has attained a
fixed standard. In computing the grade the courses in
mathematics count fifty per cent. Only students who
have been in residence for four full years are eligible to
compete for this prize.
THE MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Lyons Medal and
the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every year for
excellence in elocution. The award is made after com-
petition in public. In order to be eligible to compete,
students must have followed at least two of the courses
of instruction in public speaking. One of the medals
was founded in memory of Professor Joseph A. Lyons,
of the Class of ’62, who served the University as Pro-
fessor of Elocution and.Oratory from 1872 to 1888. The
other is the gift of Mr. Patrick T. Barry, of Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	27
THE PRIZE FOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize- of seventy-five dollars, given every year by
Mr. J. V. Clark, of Chicago, in memory of his father, is
awarded to three students who in the opinion of a com-
mittee selected by the Faculty excel in debating. The
award is made after a competition in public. The prize
is divided, thirty-five dollars going to the student who
receives the highest marks, twenty-five dollars to the
second, and fifteen dollars, to the third. The three
students who are successful in the competition represent
the University in the principal intercollegiate debate of
the year.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing will
be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintain that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of
a youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impossible
to bring about this development where student's are
granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty government
while outside the class-room. A young man must learn
obedience to law by the actual practice of obedience, not
merely by appeals to honor.	’
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for -college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by expe-
rience to be salutary, are enforced at the University:
1.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term time, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Easter.	'
28
BULLETIN OF THE
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in
examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality,
the use of profane and obscene language, and an un-
authorized absence from the University limits are among-
the causes for expulsion. In case of suspension or ex-
pulsion for such offences, no fees shall be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to' age: boys
seventeen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Carroll
Hall, and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby and Brownson halls as have
received from their parents written permission to use
tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin or
Corby halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
Catholic institution, and all students are required to at-
tend divine service in the University Church at stated
times.
10.	The use of intoxicating liquors is positively pro-
hibited.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of
study will not be permitted; but students are expected
to take part in outdoor sports.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is per-
mitted with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
of professionalism.
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members of the
Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve the right
of a final decision on all questions concerning athletics.
The Faculty Board will determine the amateur standing
of the members of the athletic teams and apportion the
finances. By this means indiscreet and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Each winter, eminent men are invited to lecture before
the students. Among those who have addressed the
University in the past few years may be noted four
Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli, and
Monsignors Falconio and Agius; Archbishops Ireland,
Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and Bishops
Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, Muldoon, O’Gorman and
Shanley. There were also such noted European church-
• men as the Abbe Felix Klein, Monsignor John S. Canon
Vaughan and the foremost of living English historians,
Dom Gasquet; also men of letters like Dr. D. J. Stafford,
Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van
Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats, James
Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read,
Leland Powers, Henry Janies and the Rev. John Talbot
Smith; and such men of affairs’ as Vice-President Fair-
banks, Senator Taft, ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge,
Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, Representa-
30
BULLETIN OF THE
tive J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William P. Breen,
Representative Bourke Cockran, Dr. James C. Monaghan,
"Willis M. Moore and the Honorable Edward McDer-
mott. Concerts are given frequently by organizations
from without.
During the year 1906-07 the University offered a
course of public lectures and concerts in Washington
Hall, in addition to the regular and special lectures
required by the courses of instruction. The course was
as follows:	LECTURES.
OCTOBER	1. 9.	Dr. Janies C. Monaghan on “Opportunity.” General N. M. Curtis on “Restoration Days in Virginia in 1865.”	%
NOVEMBER 6. 9.	Judge Ben Lindsey on “Juvenile Courts.” Professor Frederick Starr on “The Natives in the Congo Free State.”
15.	Edgar J. Banks on (a) “The Arabs and the Arabian Desert.”
16. DECEMBER 9. JANUARY 11. 22.	(b) “The Excavations and the Bible.” Mr. S. E. Doane on “Incandescent Lights.” Mr. Clifford H. Easton on “Labrador.” Dr. Winfield Scott' Hall on “The Boys’ Problem.”
24.	Dr. Guy Carleton Lee on “Present Condi- tions and Their Tendencies.”
FEBRUARY 14. 26. MARCH	11. 12.	Pion. William Jennings Bryan on “Faith.” Miss Emily Canfield on “Venice.” Dr. James C. Monaghan on “Anarchy.” Mr. Gilbert McClurg on “0 Brave New World of Texas.”
APRIL	15.	Dr. James C. Monaghan on “American Poli- tics.”
MAY	4.	Frank Hamilton Spearman on “The Writing of English.”
4. MAY	8-9.	Mr. Edmund Privat on “Esperanto.” Four lectures by Dr. V. Lutoslawski, Univer- sity of Cracow, Poland, (a) Polish Law; (b) Poland; (c) “Plato,” (d) “Will Power.”
18.	Dr. Francis J. Quinlan on “Christian Man- hood.”
19-25.	Five lectures by Dr. John Talbot Smith. (a) “The Making of a Speech;” (b) “Hen- rik Ibsen;” (c) “The Shattered Idols;” (d) “Modern Drama;” (e) Lytton’s “Richelieu.”
JUNE	1-3. JUNE	3. .	9. 12. 13.	John G. Ewing on Socialism. Dr. C. J. Monaghan on “Oratory.”	' Russell Wilbur on “Matthew Arnold.” Russell Wilbur on “Newman.” His Excellency, Wu Ting Fang, on “Perse- verance in Work.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31
CONCERTS, READINGS AND DRAMATIC RECITALS
SEPTEMBER 26.
DECEMBER 6.
10.
JANUARY 12.
15.
APRIL	20.
MARCH	17.
The Reproduction of Parsifal, lecture and
pictures.
Victor’s Venetian Band.
“The Half Back,” a play in three acts, by
the University Dramatic Club.
“The Rivals,” by the Jefferson Company.
A reading of “Cyrano de Bergerac,” by Miss
Bertha K. Baker.
The Dramatic Club of the University in a
presentation of Shakespeare’s “Twelfth
Night.”
“Hamnet Shakespeare,” a romantic play in
three acts by the Philopatrian Society of
the University.
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literarv or debating; societies in the
University which do such creditable work at their meet-
ings and in preparation for them that their work takes
on the nature of added courses of instruction. In each
society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser. In
1907-08 a series of six public debates was held among
the members of four Halls — Corby, Brownson, St.
Joseph and Holy Cross. An Inter-Hall League has
been formed and public debates are held annually. The
members of the League also compete every year for a
prize in oratory. The College of Law also has an active
debating club. The training in public speaking has
always received special attention at the University. In
fifteen public debates with other universities and colleges
Notre Dame has but once met defeat—the decision of the
judges in the greater number of these debates being
unanimous. In oratory the representative of Notre Dame
in the Indiana State Contest for 1906-07 was awarded
32
BULLETIN OF THE
first place, and in the Inter-State contest the judges
placed him above the representatives from eleven other
States. In 1907-08 the representatives of Notre Dame
were given first place in the Indiana Intercollegiate Peace
Contest and second place in the Interstate Intercollegiate
Peace contest. The University Dramatic Club and the
Philopatrian Society stage at least three plays annually
for presentation in public. The University Band and the
University Orchestra also appear regularly in concerts.
Students of the Department of Civil and Electrical
Engineering have each a society in which papers on
engineering subjects are read and discussed. Men promi-
nent in their profession are invited to lecture to these so-
cieties. The Pharmaceutical Society meets to discuss
subjects of interest in the world of pharmacy. In other
departments where no such formal organization has been
effected similar results are reached by seminars.
NECESSARY EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).$ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linens, per school year..................... 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only).........$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition................ 250.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account............. 10.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to all
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the year. 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course... 3.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any Extra Ex-
pense the student may wish to incur, such as charges for Pri-
vate Room, Special Courses (listed below).
ON JANUARY 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition.....................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
33
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of
the Terms, September and January. The charge of $400.00
covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic
Year. The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition dur-
ing the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or
part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fun-
damental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby brought
to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving and
absenting himself from the University at any time or for any
cause without proper permission. However, an exception is
made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home be-
cause of severe or protracted illness. Degrees zuill not be con-
ferred on any student whose account with the University has
not been settled.
OPTIONAL EXPENSES.	.
For whole Year of nearly Ten Months, Payable in Advance.-
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free; Freshmen. .$50.00
Preparatory Students..............$60.00 and upwards.
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine them-
selves to the regular courses of the programs they have entered,
any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Scholastic Year, payable in advance. The charges will be pro
rata for any portion of the year
Instrumental Music — Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment ................  $60.00
Use of Piano for Advanced
Students .......... 30.00
Telegraphy.........   25.00
Typewriting—Full Course 20.00
One month........... 5.00
Phonography ..........25.00
Lessons on Guitar, Flute, '
Cornet, Clarinet or
Mandolin .......... 30.00
Laboratory fees listed
Lessons on Violin...... 60.00
*Use of each Instrument^ 5.00
Vocal Culture ........ 75.00
Elocution — Special
Course ...........   10.00
“Scholastic” — College
Paper............. 1.50
Artistic Drawing ..... 35.00
Library Fee ,.......... 5.00
Physical Culture......... 5.00
later in this catalogue.
* As tfie string and band instruments available for rent are
few, students taking up these studies are advised to furnish their
own instruments.	•	>
34	BULLETIN OF THE
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00; Com-
mercial Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
. The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory
Fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order
or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed during
the months of duly and August. Students wishing to spend their
Summer Vacation under the care of the University authorities
can be accommodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jose Park is $100.00.
Classes (two hours per day') are included in this arrangement.
Special tutoring at professors’ rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at re-
duced rates. For conditions of entrance see paragraph entitled
St. Joseph’s Hall, page 16.
COLLEGE
OF
ARTS AND LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
DEPARTMEMT OF LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY and ECONOMICS
36
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
"From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
establishment of the Colleg'e of Science in 1865, only
one program of prescribed courses of instruction leading
to a degree was offered to undergraduate students. It
embraced studies in the ancient and modern languages,
in English literature, in history, the natural sciences and
in mathematics. Graduate students might obtain the
degree of Master by advanced study one year after
obtaining the Bachelor’s degree. The group of courses
was known as the Program of Classics, and the degrees
of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of elec-
tion in courses led the University in 1886 and again in
1898 to form other programs which embraced certain
studies not contained in the Program of Classics, but
which lead to degrees equivalent to the degree of Bach-
elor of Arts. In the matter of election of courses the
student is permitted greater freedom in the program
leading to the degree of Bachelor of Letters than in
either of the other groups. The degrees now under
charge of the College of Arts and Letters are the
ordinary degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Let-
ters, Bachelor of Philosophy and Master of Arts.
The location of the University offers special advan-
tages for study. It is situated on a beautiful tract where
cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the noisy
bustle of city life. This removal from the distractions of
the town gives the students opportunity to pursue their
work with the quiet and concentration needed for earnest
study. Nearly all the Faculty live on the grounds of
the University, dine with the students, and are accessible
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
37
to them at any time. The benefits derived from this
constant association with professors can not be over-
estimated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and
laboratories. The main library has fifty-five thousand
bound volumes well selected and several thousand
pamphlets and manuscripts. The leading literary and
scientific reviews are kept on file. Books may be bor-
rowed under easy regulations. The library contains
ample reading-room space and is well lighted so that
students may use it at night. It is open every day from
8 o’clock A. m. to 9:30 p. m. There are also special col-
lections of books in the various departments of the
College, mainly works of reference. Under certain con-
ditions the city library of South Bend is open to use by
students of the University.
The department of experimental psychology occupies
a suite of three rooms on the ground, floor of Science
Hall. The use of a dark room and a silent room mav
also be had when need requires. The students have
access to the laboratory at all hours of the day and up to
ten o’clock at night. The equipment includes apparatus
and material sufficient for repeating all the exercises in
Sanford’s Manual, and most of the exercises in Tit-
chener’s Experimental Psychology, Volume I. The
laboratory is supplied with hot and cold water, gas and
electricity. At the beginning of the course, the aim is to
give students a wide acquaintance with such familiar
apparatus as the chronoscope, kymograph, plethysmo-
graph, automatograph, perimeter, campimeter, tone
variator, Galton whistle, Galton bar, etc. For the study
of special perception, there is a set of stereoscopes,
pseudoscopes, and accompanying slides. Provision is
also made for the investigation of pressure, temperature,
pain, taste, smell, and muscular sensations. Experi-
38
BULLETIN OF THE
meats in the field of auditory perception are facilitated
by three sets of organ pipes, a set of Koenig’s movable
tuning forks and resonators, and various kinds of
metronomes. For the study of physiological psychology,
a complete set of models of the nervous system is at
hand, together with microscopic slides of the various
parts of the brain and spinal cord.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder, for
writing an essay.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Catiline;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translations at sight of pass-
ages from Cicero and Caesar; translation of English into
Latin based on the text of the authors.
Greek. (For Students in the Department of Classics
only') Grammar, etymology and general rules of syntax;
Xenophon, Anabasis, four books; Homer, at least three
books; prose composition based on text.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modem
History, as set out in the texts used in high schools and
other secondary schools.
Civil Government. The Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples as
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Physical Geography. As given is Tarr’s text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equiva- -
lent text.
Botany. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in which
at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation in this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar
to Carhart and Chute's or Gage’s. Laboratory work is
required. Applicants may present either chemistry or
physics provided either subject has occupied one whole
year with five recitations a week.
French and German. A three years’ study of
either German or French and one year of French or
German is required for entrance on the Program in
Letters and th'e Program in History and Economics.
Students who began French in the second preparatory
year must have taken up German in the fourth pre-
paratory year and shall continue it for two years in the
college course. A like regulation holds for those who
began German in the second preparatory year. Appli-
cants for the Program of Classics present a year of
French or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation
of ordinary German or French prose: an ability to
translate, rather than accurate grammatical knowledge
is expected.
40
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE EOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week		SEE EOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course				Page	Course
Latin	4	146	I	Latin		4	146	II
Greek	4	141	I	Greek		4	141	II
English	3	137	I	English		3	137	I
History	4	144	I	History		4	144	I
Elocution	1	136	ITI	Elocution		1	136	IV
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution		1	137	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Latin	4	146	in	Latin	4 4	146 141	IV IV
Greek	4	141	in	Greek	4	162	i
Philosophy	4	162	i	Philosophy	3	138	ii
English	3	138	ii	English	1	137	VIII
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution			
JUNIOR YEAR
Latin	4	147	V	Latin	4	147	VI
Greek	4	142	V	Greek	4	142	VI
Philosophy	4	163	ii	Philosophy	4	163	II
English	3	138	in	English	3	138	HI
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SENIOR YEAR
Latin	4	147	VII	Latin	4	148	VIII
Greek	4	143	VII	Greek	4	143	VIII
Philosophy	4	164	in	Philosophy	4	164	in
English	3	• 139	IV	English	3	139	IV
Elocution	1	136	VI	Elocution	1	137	VII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
41
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR. OF LETTERS.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week		SEE for DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course				Psge	Course
English	3	137	I	English		3	137	I
Latin or	4	146	1	Latin or		4	146	II
Elective	5			Elective		5		
French or	5	169	II	French or		5	169	II
German	5	140	II	German		5	140	II
History	4	144	I	History		4	144	I
Elocution	1	136	III	Elocution		1	136	IV
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution		1	137	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR								
English	3	138	II	English		3	138	II
Philosophy	4	162	I	Philosophy		4	162	I
Latin or	4	146	III	Latin or		4	146	IV
Elective	5			Elective		5		
French or	4	169	III	French or		4	169	III
German	4	140	III	German		4	140	III
History	3	144	ii a	History		3	144	ii a
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution		1	137	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	138	in	English	3	138	in
Latin or	4	147	V	Latin or	4	147	VI
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	163	ii	Philosophy	4	163	ii
History	4	145	in	History	4	145	in
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SENIOR YEAR
English	3	139	IV	English	3	139	IV
Latin or	4	147	VII	Latin or	4	148	VIII
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	163	in	Philosophy	4	163	in
Elective	4			Elective	4	•	
Elocution	1	136	VI	Elocution	1	137	VII
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week		SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
			Page	Course			Page	Course
History English French or German Polit. Science Elocution Elocution .		4 3 5 5 ■4 1 1	144 137 169 140 167 136 137	I I II II I III VIII	History English French or German Polit. Science Elocution Elocution	4 3 5 5 4 1 1	144 137 169 140 167 136 137	I I II II I IV VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
History	3	144	H a	History	3	144	ii a
Polit. Science	4	167	ii	Polit. Science	4	167	in a
Philosophy	4	162	i	Philosophy	4	162	i
English	3	138	ii	English	3	138	n
German or	4	140	in	German or	4	140	in
French	4	169	in	French	4	169	TH
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
History	4	144	ii b	History	4	145	iv a
Polit. Science	4	167	in b	Polit. Science	4	167	IV
Philosophy	4	163	ii	Philosophy	4	163	1 h
History	4	145	in	History	4	145	HI
Elocution	1	137	VIII	Elocution	1	137	VIII
SENIOR YEAR
History	3	145	iv b	History	3	| 145	VI
Political		167	V, VI	Political		167	VI, VII
Science	6	167	VII	Science	6	168	VII
Philosophy	4	164	in	Philosophy	4	164	III
English	3	138	HI	English	3	138	III
Elocution	1	136	VI	Elocution	1	137	VII
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
/ DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
( DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The College of Science was established as a distinct
department of the Universify in 1865. The curriculum
of the student was largely elective for the three suc-
ceeding years, but in 1867 there was formed the group
of prescribed courses now known as the Program of
General Science. Five programs are now offered to
undergraduate students. The degrees under charge of
the Faculty in this college are the ordinary degrees of
Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Biology,
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Graduate in Pharmacy
and Pharmaceutical Chemist. The Master’s degree is
conferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Biology occupies the second floor
of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture rooms
and laboratories well ventilated and lighted. There are
also private laboratories set apart for graduate students.
The lecture rooms are furnished with charts and models
necessary in teaching the different courses. The ar-
rangement of windows is such that the rooms can be
easily darkened so that stereopticon and lantern slides
on the subject of botany, zoology and physiology may
be used. The laboratories are equipped with compound
and dissecting microscopes. In each room there is a
library of works of reference pertaining to biological
subjects. The general laboratory of microscopy, his-
tology and embryology is supplied with compound micro-
scopes and the equipments indispensable in these courses.
The zoological collection fills sixteen large cases and
represents typical forms of all the orders and genera
of vertebrate and invertebrate animals.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	45
For work in anatomy, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of
the human body, which can be taken apart for close study.
Besides there are several mounted and unmounted hu-*
man skeletons. Students pursuing courses in human
anatomy at the. University study under a practicing sur-
geon and have the privilege of attending surgical clinics
in the new St. Joseph Hospital of South Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the others is
a laboratory of photo-micograp'hy which contains a per-
fect photo-micographic instrument with a complete set
of accessory apparatus for experimentation, photograph-
ing microscopic objects, making lantern slides, etc. A
large and fully equipped dark room adjoins this labora-
tory.
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORY
The botanical laboratory occupies the northwest end
of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly well
adapted to microscopical and histological work. The
department is supplied with the usual requisites of a
working laboratory such as compound microscopes and
accompaniments for each student, the utensils and ap-
paratus necessary for embedding by the paraffin, cel-
loiden, soap methods, and mounting of preparations by
the balsam, Venetian turpentine and glycerine methods.
There are besides, microtomes, camera lucida, microm-
eters and aquaria for plant cultures so that the typical
algae and fungi may be had alive for laboratory use in
all stages of development throughout the year. Special
devices for the regulating and modifying of artificial
light are at hand enabling the student to work on dark
as well as clear days. Advanced students, are supplied
46
BULLETIN OF THE
with Abbe condenser and oil immersion lenses. The
laboratory is well stocked with histological material, and
nearly all the types of common plant families of the
phanerogamia and cryptogamia are preserved after
proper fixing. The material for demonstration of the
fresh water algae is particularly good and abundant.
The supply of material in Venetian turpentine and gly-
cerine is valuable, as it supplies permanent mounts in a
few minutes work. There' are also hundreds of speci-
mens of rare and common types in paraffin. A herb-
arium containing' over five thousand species of flower-
ering plants supplies the needs of the classes in sys-
tematic botany. The collection includes plants from all
parts of the United States and Canada,—the Pacific coast
and the Southern States are especially well represented.
Besides these there is a large collection of fungi, ma-
rine algae, mosses, a large collection of several hundred ■
species of myxomycetes from the Eastern and Central
States, also nearly a thousand specimens of lichens from
all parts of the United States and Europe. The latter
collection is particularly rich in the genus Cladonia. The
herbarium is well stocked with the local flora, and spe-
cial facilities are on hand for the study of the compositae.
In the museum are found specimens of American and
tropical woods and fruits. The laboratory for more
advanced work accommodates about twenty-five students.
It is supplied with eight working tables covered with
plate glass or soapstone, and each place is supplied with
lock and 'key. The lecture room in botany is on the
second floor of the building and has a seating capacity
of seventy-five.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated- in the
southeastern part of the grounds and is a large three-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. a 47
story structure devoted entirely to chemistry. On the
third floor are a small stock room and the laboratories
for general and industrial chemistry, the former capable
of accomodating one hundred and fifty students, the
other seventy. The desks are all supplied with gas,
water, suction and the necessary reagents. On the side
tables are general stock and general apparatus, and con-
veniently placed are small stands for suction and blast
lamps supplied with gas, air blast, acetylene. On the
third floor also is the large fan used for drawing gases
from the hoods, with which all the laboratories are sup-
plied. On the middle floor are the main stock rooms
where supplies can be obtained by the students. Here
also are the laboratories, lecture-room, drug store,
library and museum of the Department of Pharmacy.
On the first floor are the laboratories for qualitative and
quantitative analysis with desks to accommodate
sixty-five students, and fitted with gas, suction, water
and blast. Large hood accommodations are available
and can be utilized to advantage because of the perfect
ventilation produced b}- the large fans on the top floor.
• Two small side tables are equipped with air blast, ordi-
nary gas and acetylene. To the east of these laboratories
are those for physical and electrochemistry and special
' work such as food analysis, iron and steel analysis, gas
analysis, etc. The equipment in these laboratories is
quite complete. Adjoining these laboratories is a small
dark room for spectroscopic and polariscopic analysis.
A large lecture room to accommodate a hundred and
ten students is in the south end of the first floor. It is
provided with apparatus for steropticon illustrations,
storage batteries, cylinders of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon
dioxide and a complete set of charts illustrative of the
processes employedin modern chemical industries. Two
48
BULLETIN OF THE
c>
laboratories adjoin, one for general organic analysis, the
other for special advanced work. Two wings extend
from the main building,—one contains the vacuum and
pressure tanks, the acetylene and gasoline gas gener-
ators, the other the balance rooms, in which are the
analytical and assay balances sensitive to the one ten-
thousandth of a gramme, and the library of the Depart-
ment. The library contains besides the works of refer-
ence on chemistry, the principal chemical journals on
file—Berichte, Zentralblatt, the Chemical News, the
Journal o.f the American Chemical Society, the Journal
of the British Chemical Society, the Journal of Chemical
Engineering, the Journal of Chemical Industries, etc. In
the large hallway are cases containing a steadily increas-
ing collection of minerals, chemicals, and chemico-techni-
cal products of various kinds, designed as illustrations of
the substances and processes discussed in the lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are in
a wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas and
fuel furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead ores, and
also tables for blow-pipe analysis. A large collection of
minerals and ores serves to illustrate the processes.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The department of physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science Hall
and three laboratories in the basement. The lecture
room will accommodate seventy-five students. For the
work in mechanics there is the force table, inclined
planes, Geneva cathetometer, capable of measuring to
one twenty-five thousandth of an inch, a large physical
balance, standard kilogram, a standard metre, a dividing
engine made by the Geneva society, an Atwood’s machine,
a compound pendulum, a break circuit recording chrono-
graph, a powerful hydraulic press with attachments, ro-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	49
tary air pumps and receivers, a large clock with electrical
contact pieces, several self-winding clocks, mercury
barometers and two aneroid barometers.
For the work in acoustics there are a Mercadier radio-
phone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electrically-
operated tuning forks by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig plion-
autograph, an Edison phonograph of earliest type, sev-
eral sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a large double
siren, a set of very small tuning forks producing the
highest audible sounds, a set of resonators mounted to-
gether with capsules for sensitive flames arranged for
the analysis of complex sounds, a set of .Koenig’s movable
tuning forks to draw compound curves on smoked glass,
three sets of organ pipes, four sets of fine tuning forks, a
set of apparatus for manometric observation of sound
phenomena, a large tuning fork producing the lowest
audible sound, an electrical metronome, a set of mounted
tuning forks carrying small mirrors arranged to' perform
Lissajou’s experiment, producing complex curves.
For the work in light there are a complete set of appa-
ratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the wave
lengths of light by various interference methods, a set
of polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a polariz-
ing saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for gas or
electric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large Nicol’s
prisms mounted, a large compound prism to- form widely
dispersed spectrum, two Rowland gratings 14,000 lines
to the inch, a set of photographs of solar spectrum by
Rowland, several cameras with lenses and attachments,
a well-equipped dark-room for photographic work, and
a photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
50	BULLETIN OF THE
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
thermometers, air’ thermometers, a steam engine indi-
cator, several calorimeters, apparatus for determining
the coefficient of linear expansion using the optical lever
method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
absolute electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,
six bridges of different types, several anmeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of the
modern machine from the early forms of the. recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types, a com-
plete X-ray utfit, sets of apparatus for wireless teleg-
raphy.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Candidates for the Freshman class of the four-year
programs must be prepared to pass an examination in
the branches named below unless satisfactory assurance
of proficiency is given by approved certificate.
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr's text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equiva-
lent treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Botany. Elementary.
Civil Government. The American Constitution;
Federal and State Governments.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
51
' Geometry. Plane and solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Nezvcomb,
or equivalent treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and spherical. .
Chemistry. Elements o f inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of lec-
tures and recitations. A course of at least fifty experi-
ments in elementary, chemistry actually performed by
the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar
to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is
required.
English. Part of the examination is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English in the Preparatory
School of the University; the remainder for writing an
essay.
German. A two-year course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English,
and easy English into German, or
French. A two-year course in French may be pre-
sented instead of German under the same conditions.
Ability to translate readily, rather than an accurate gram-
matical knowledge, is expected.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on the text of Caesar,
a
52
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM OF GENERAL SCIENCE
The Program in General Science is calculated to af-
ford such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit him-
self, tither for further study of a technical or profes-
sional kind, or for the activities of business life. The
natural and physical sciences constitute the primary stud-
ies of this program. Grouped about these are such
studies in English, mathematics, and modern languages,
as experience has shown to be necessary for the intelli-
gent pursuit of science and the attainment of ’the object
of the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior
year.
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in physics, chemistry,
biology and mathematics.	•
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of Gen-
eral Science is required to submit, before the final ex-
amination, a written thesis upon some subject connected
with the elective work of the Senior year. The subject
chosen must have the approval of the professor in the
course selected. The thesis shall contain no less than
five thousand words, and must be satisfactorily in matter
and treatment. '
Students who complete the required courses, pass the
final examination and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree .of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute
periods, of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry I., VIL, each.........................  $	5.00
Chemistry IL, III., IV., V., VL, VIII., IX., XI., XIII., each 10.00
Physics III., Zoology I., Botany II., Geology I., each....... 5.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
53
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS ■» First Teru	Hrs. a W eek	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week		SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course				Page	Course
Zoology	5	172	I	Zoology		6	172	I
Chemistry	4	115	III	Chemistry		4	115	III
Algebra	5	148	I	An. Geometry		5	149	II
Drawing	2	131	I	Drawing		1	131	II
Physiology	4	166	I	Physiology		4	166	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Botany	5	112	i, ii '	Botany	*5	112	i, n
Chemistry	4	115	IV	Physics	5	165	ii, hi
Physics	5	165	ii, in	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Calculus	5	149	m	Elective	5		
JUNIOR YEAR
Geology	2	139	i	Geology	4	140	in
Elective	5			Astronomy	3	111	i
English	3	137	i	English	3.	137	i
French or	•5	169	i	French or	5	169	i
German	5	140	i	German	5	140	i
Philosophy	4	162	i	Philosophy	4	162	i
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy	4	163	ii	Philosophy	4	163	ii
Three Electives				Three Electives			
in Science	9,11			in Science	9,11		
French or	5	.169	ii	French or	5	169	ii
German	5	140	ii	German	5	140	n
54
BULLETIN OF THE
THE PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them for
professional work either in the laboratory or the class-
room. Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule of
work admits in the Junior and Senior year of some elec-
tive study.
Every candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject con-
nected with Chemistry and: must submit, at least four
weeks before the final examination, a written thesis on
work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must con-
tain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an “hour” means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recita-
tion.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry I., VII., each...............................$	5.00
Chemistry II.,'Ill, IV, V, VI, VIII, IX, XI, XIII, each 10.00
Physics III........................................... 5.00
Geology 1............................................. 5.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
55
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE QF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN CHEMISTRY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week		SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course				Page	Course
Chemistry Algebra French Physics	4 5 5 5	115 148 169 165	III I I II, III	Chemistry Anal.Geom. French Physics		4 5 5 5	115 149 169 165	in II I II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Chemistry	4	115	- IV	Chemistry	4	116	V
Calculus •	5	149	in	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Geology	2	139	i	Geology	4	140	III
Chemistry	5	116	VI	Chemistry	6	117	IX
Gas Analysis	4	117	VIII.				
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	7	117	IX	Chemistry	4	118	XI
Chemistry				Chemistry	3	118	XIII
Elective	5			Chemistry			
Elective	5			Elective	5		
English	3	137	i	Assaying	2	140	n
				English	3	137]	i
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy	4	463	ii	Philosophy	4	| 163'| n
History of				Chemistry		
Chemistry	3	118	XII	Elective	5	
Elective	5			Scientific •		
Scientific				Readings in		
Readings in				German and	2	
German and-	2			French	2	
French	2			Thesis		
56
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY
The Program in Biology has been designed for stu-
dents who wish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the study
of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view to
teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required t© prepare an
essay during the first term of the Junior Year on some
subject pertaining to biology. Every candidate for a
degree must submit before the final examinations a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings. Stu-
dents not preparing themselves for the medical profes-
sion may substitute for the advanced courses in anatomy
and physiology equivalents from either mathematics,
physics, or English literature.
LABORATORY FEES
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I., II., each..........$	5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany IL, IV., each........... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I., II....................... 1.00
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology............ 10.00
Physics III......................................... 5.00
Chemistry III., IV., V, VI., each.................. 10.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
57
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN BIOLOGY
FRESHMAN YEAR							
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term A	Hrs. a Veek	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology Chemistry Microscopy English French Drawing	5 4 2 3 5 1	172 115 156 137 169 133	I in i i i IX	Zoology Chemistry English French Drawing	6 4 3 5 1	172 115 137 169 133	I III I I IX
,	SOPHOMORE YEAR							
Physiology Botany Chemistry Physics Drawing	4 5 4 5 1	166 112 115 165 133	i i, ii IV II, III X	Physiology Botany Chemistry Physics Drawing	4 5 4 5 1	166 112 116 165 133	I I, II V II, III X
JUNIOR YEAR							
A	* Anatomy Botany Geology Philosophy Bacteriology	3 6 2 4 3	106 113 139 162 111	III III, IV I I I	i Anatomy Botany Geology Philosophy Chemistry	3 4 4 4 5	106 113 140 162 116	III III, IV III I VI
SENIOR YEAR							
Anatomy	2	106	ii	Anatomy	2	106	ii
Anatomy	3	106	in	Anatomy	3	106	in
Physiology	6	166	11	Physiology	6	166	ii
Zoology Thesis	6	172	ii	Zoology Thesis	6 ,	172	n
58
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are two programs in Pharmacy: one of two
years, leading to the degree Graduate in Pharmacy, (Ph.
G.) ; and another of three years leading to the degree,
PharmaceiLtical Chemist, (Ph. C.)
ADMISSION	.
Applicants for admission to the short program must
be 18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
subjects required for the first year of high school work.
A certificate of work done equivalent to one year of high
school will be accepted instead of an examination.
The requirements for the long programme are the
same, except that an examination in Latin through Caesar
and Algebra as far as logarithms must be passed. Satis-
factory evidence of having spent two years in a high
school of the best grade will be accepted instead of an
examination.
METHODS
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well a practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated process.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success, in any professional wOrk and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled' in store etiquette, business hints, prescription work,
and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the operations
and extreme care in the manufacture of preparations are
required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal Med-
ication.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
59
EQUIPMENT
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as' re-
quired.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same expe-
rience that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full charge. He is required
to furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.	‘
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute a
very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to read
them and to compound those requiring special manipula-
tion. The reading rooms is supplied with all the leading
pharmaceutical journals and books of reference. The
Pharmacognosy room contains specimens of all the official
and a great many unofficial drugs for study and identifi-
cation.
THESIS
During the third year the student is’required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a subject
within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of this
work are carefully recorded and must be typewritten and
presented to the Faculty as a requirement for gradua-
tion.
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II., and IV., each......$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI.	and VII., each...... 20.00
Chemistry I., and VIL, each........................ 5.00
Chemistry IV., V. and Vi., each................... 10.00
Physics..........................................   5.00
Microscopy.................-.....................   1-00
Mineralogy......................................... 5-00
a
60
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAMS IN DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
Degree : Ph. G.
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS	Hrs. a	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS	Hrs. a		SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
First Term	Week	Page	Course	Second Term	Week		Page ^Course	
Pharmacy	3	160	I	Pharmacy		6	160	i, ii
Chemistry	5	114	I	Chemistry		5	114	i
Microscopy	2	156	I	Chemistry		2	117	X
Botany	5	112	I, II	Botany		5	112	i, n
Arithmetic	3	162	IX	Mat’raMedica		2	162	VIII
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	161	III, IV	Pharmacy	8	161	V, VI
Chemistry	4	115	IV	Chemistry	4	116	V
Mat’ra Medica	3	161	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	3	161	VIII
Bacteriology	3	111	I	Pharmacog’y	3	162	X
Physics	5	164	I	Physics	5	164	I
-			1	Physiology	4	166	I
Degree: Ph. C.
FIRST YEAR
Pharmacy	3	160	i	Pharmacy	6	160	i, ii
Chemistry	5	114	i	Chemistry	5	114	I
Microscopy	2	156	i	Chemistry	2	161	X
Botany	5	112	i, ii	Botany	5	112	Ln
Arithmetic	3	162	IX	Mat’ra Medica	2	162	VIII
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	161	III, IV	Pharmacy	8	161	V, VI
Chemistry	4	115	IV	Chemistry	4	116	V
Mat’raMedica	3	161	VIII	Mat’raMedica	3	161	VIII
Bacteriology	3	111	I	Pharmacog’y	3	162	X
Physics	5	164	I	Physics	5	164	I
				Physiology	4	166	I
« Pharmacy	5	161	VI	Pharmacy	5	161	VII
Chemistry	5	116	VI	Chemistry	5	119	XIV
Mineralogy	2	139	I	Urinary Anal.	3	116	vii (a)
Thesis	2			Toxicology	3	116	vii (bl
.Elective	5			Thesis	2		
		*		Elective	5		
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
a
62
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the en-
gineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained enp'ineers.
o
The programs of studies in the three departments of
engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that are
applied in engineering work. Mathematics is foremost
among these requirements. The natural sciences receive
their share of attention and due importance is given to
languages in arranging the programs of studies. -
Laboratory work and field work give a certain
amount of practice in the application of the theory to
actual physical conditions. These conditions are made to
correspond as closely as possible to the real work of the
engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are ac-
quired by applying the. results of mathematical calcula-
‘tions to particular practical cases in laboratory work.
Three regular programs of studies have been ar-
ranged : one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one
to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, and one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer in Electrical Engineering.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accommodate those who wish
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	63
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest possi-
ble time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department will be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works in
the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufacturing'
plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour of credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one to
two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in labora-
tory work, shopwork or drawing are required for each
hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 33, the regular
students in the three Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fee.s to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appa-
ratus used, as follows :	- .
LABORATORY FEES
Physical Laboratory I., and III., each..................$ 5.00
Physical Laboratory IV................................. 15.00
Electrical Laboratory I., II........................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory IV............................... 15.00
Shopwork, all four-year programs, per term............. 15.00
Chemistry I........................'.................... 5.00
Chemistry II., IV., V., each..........................  10.0Q
64
BULLETIN OF THE
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in W entworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States; Fed-
eral Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of ancient, medieval and
modern history.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr’s text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments and recitations from a text-book like Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is also required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry. Labora-
tory work required. .
Botany, Physiology and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must pre-
sent a three years’ course in German.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be' read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfac-
torily he may begin at once the regular Freshman work;
but if he is deficient in any one or more subjects he may
enter conditionally and make up his deficiency as soon as
possible in the Preparatory School of the University.
Credits from high schools or preparatory schools in
good standing will be accepted in place of examinations.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	65
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession either
in the office or in some of the responsible positions super-
intending the construction and operation of public works.
To secure these results the student is given, not only a
sound theoretical training in the courses of study, but
he is also required to study the practical applications of
the principles upon which the theory is based. The first
two years are devoted to the study of mathematics and
the theoretical branches. The last two years are given
to the study of applied courses—practical work in the
laboratory and field, as much as possible, being required
throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
- professional works in these languages; and the study of
English is pursued until the student is qualified to pre-
pare acceptable themes on professional subjects . Instruc-
tion based upon standard text-books on engineering is
given throughout the course by means of lectures, recita-
tions, practice in laboratory, drawing-room and field.
This work is largely supplemented by assigning to the
student, for solution, practical problems bearing directly
upon the subject matter discussed in the class room and
requiring original investigation, thus training the student
to habits of independence and awakening his interest in
the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of

66
BULLETIN OF THE
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists of
surveyors’ transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with all
the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, levelling rods,
etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine. After
the student is taught the use and adjustment of the in-
struments, surveys, elementary in character, are com-
menced and continued progressively until the more diffi-
cult principles and methods are understood. In a sim-
ilar manner is instruction given in the courses of san-
itary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of mate-
rials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the stu-
dent with practical engineering subjects, and the most
improved method of execution and designing. A large
draughting room offers “facilities for the proper study
of all the courses in mechanical drawing and design.
The room is splendidly lighted from above, well ventilated
and contains the latest form of drawing tables. There
are suitable arrangements for blueprinting, both by nat-
ural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most im-
portant manufacturing cities in the Middle West. Some
of the largest plants in the world are situated here. One
of the greatest water power developments in the United
States is located a few miles from the University. Spe-
cial advantages are thus afforded to students for the in-
spection of the most modern engineering works now com-
pleted or in process of construction. The City Engineer
is one of the examing board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of the
Department connected with the course of study, is re-
quired of each student as a condition of graduation. The
thesis must embody the results of original research.
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
67
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	His. a Week		description SEE FOR	
		Page	Course				Page	Course
Algebra	5	148	I	Anal. Geom.		5	149	II .
English	3	- 137	I	French		5	169	I
French	5	169	I	Chemistry		4	114	II
Chemistry	4	114	II	Drawing		2	131	n
Drawing	3	131	I, II	Surveying		3	131	1 I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	149	in	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Des. Geometry	3	120	i	Des. Geometry	3	120	i
R. R. Surveying	5	122	VI, VII	Adv. Survey’g	5	121	IV, V
Physics	5	165	ii, in	Physics	5	165	II, III
Drawing	1	131	V	Drawing	1	131	V
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics Geodesy	5 4	122 123	VIII IX	An. Mechanics Mechanics of Materials	2 3	122 vni	
						123	X
English	3	138	II	Astronomy -	3	111	i
Geology	2	139	I	English	3	138	ii
Stereotomy	3	132	VI	Geology	4	140	hi
				Drawing	3	132	VII
SENIOR YEAR
Engineering
Hydromechan
Bridges, Roofs
Sanitary Eng.
Drawing
5	125	XII	Engineering	5	125	XII
3	127	XVI	Hydromechan	3	127	XVI
5	126	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	126	XV
2	125	XIII	Sanitary Eng.	2	125	XIII
3	132	VII |	Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	4	124	XI
BULLETIN OF THE
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and for
the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only those
capable of adapting themselves to these requirements
should take it up. The program of the department is
modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
’Si
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used
in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the science
of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions
of connected parts without reference to the cause of such
motions, to the work done or energy transmitted. This
is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct devel-
opment of kinematics, and the course continues through-
out the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the woodshop,
in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and pattern-
making are taught. When the students have become
sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the work
of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop. A
systematic course of training is provided, which advances
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
69
the student by easy steps until he has mastered all the
details of the work.	.
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culmination effort of the program,
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show con-
siderable originality.
Every possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the par-
ticular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas engine
design and operation. A systematic curriculum of study
will be outlined in each individual case leading to a
complete and proficient knowledge of the work under-
taken.	.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort is
made by the authorities to make the work as compre-
hensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop is
supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped with
the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for
turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner, an
edge moulder and sharper, a universal trimmer, circu-
lar saw with dado and drilling attachments and band saw,
the whole forming an adequate equipment for a thorough
mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
70
BULLETIN OF THE
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running the entire length of the building. The
latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in num-
ber, varying from a five-inch swing in the smallest to a
large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed having a capa-
city for work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two drill
presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a Brown
and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit, thus mak-
ing the machine shop a model of its kind. There have
been completed lately in the machine shop seven new
screw cutting lathes of fourteen inch swing, a high speed
bench hand lathe, one twenty-eight inch Sibley and Ware
drill press, one horizontal 8 x 12 slide valve steam en-
gine and a wood milling machine. The equipment is
added to regularly, and recently a Seneca Falls lathe of
fourteen inch swing and eight foot bed, a Crown high
speed lathe, a Toledo punch press and a complete new set
of chucks, drills, taps, mandrels and lathe dogs have been
installed to meet the additional requirements of the
courses. It is the policy of this department to refrain
as much as possible from exercise work, and each student
is usually taking part in the construction of some new
machine or engaged on general repair work for the Uni-
versity, a plan which is regarded superior to a fixed
routine of exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand-, setting up and drawing simple and' complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
71
engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently re-
modeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggregat-
ing 1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers is
installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows: a
Worthington hot water meter for measuring the amount
of feed water, a feed water thermometer for getting
temperature of same, a high range thermometer for
temperature of generated steam, a throttling calorimeter
for ascertaining the quality of steam and an automatic
recording pressure gauge giving a continuous record of
the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding the
temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means of a
pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining samples
of flue gas for analysis with Fisher’s analysis apparatus.
These, with a Carpenter coal calorimeter for determin-
ing the heating value of fuel, comprise a full and com-
plete equipment for giving the student an intimate knowl-
edge of the practical part of boiler management and test-
ing. A Webster feed water and purifier, two compound
duplex pumps, two vacuum pumps working on the heat-
ing system, two large Worthington fire pumps 16 by
9 by 12 with a capacity of 1,500 gallons per minute,
with numerous separators, steam traps, automatic reduc-
ing valves, etc., complete the apparatus in the main steam
plant. A McEwen high speed automatic engine, an Arm-
ington and Sims engine of similar type and several low-
speed horizontal engines with polar and roller planimet-
ers, indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules and other
necessary instruments, are used in studying the operation
of the steam engine, distribution and economy of steam,
regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.	-
72
BULLETIN OF THE
There have been donated in the past year to the me-
chanical laboratory about four hundred brass and iron
fittings, used in steam and gas engineering, including
feed water injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups,
safety valves, relief valves, different varieties of globe
valves, gate valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bush-
ings and reducers. Many of these have been sectioned
to'show the dimensions, and facilitate a study of the in-
ternal structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four cycle gas engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse’ power two cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse power horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with circulating pump and cooling tower,
one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil, one
Apple ignition dynamo with storage battery, two Hen-
dricks automatic igniters together with carburettors,
spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary
equipment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston car-
burettor and muffler, a National storage battery, Pitts-
field induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard mag-
netos with brass armored spark coils, one four engine
cylinder distributor and a number of improved standard
and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated by alcohol has been placed in the machine
shop, and the work of designing and building the engine
will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering top-
ics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete
line of trade catalogues.	*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	73
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		' SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	148	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	149	II
French	5	169	I	French	5	169	I
Drawing	3	131	I	Drawing	3	131	II
Chemistry	4	114	II	Chemistry	4	114	II
Shopwork	3	155	xiva	Shopwork	3	155	xivb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	149	in	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Drawing	3	132	VIII	Drawing	3	132	VIII
Chemistry	4	115	IV ’	Chemistry	4	116	V
Physics	5	165	II, III	Physics	5	165	II, III
Shopwork	3	156	xivc	Shopwork	3	156	xxvd
JUNIOR YEAR
An. Mechanics	5	122	VIII	An. Mechanics	2	122	VIII
Kinematics	5	153	V	Meeh’s of Mat’s	3	123	X
English	3	137	I	Mach’n Design	3	153	VI
Physics	3	165	IV	Physics	3	165	IV
Shopwork	3	156	XIW	Valve Gears	2	153	VII
				English	3	137	I
				Shopwork	3	156	xivf
SENIOR YEAR
Materials of Engineering	2	151	ii	Steam Engine Design	5	152	in
Thermod’nam	5	151	i	Steam Boilers	3	152	IV
Steam Engine				Thermod’nam	5	151	i
Design	5	152	in	Thesis			
Mechan’l Lab.	3	154	VIII				
Shopwork	3	156	xivf				
74	BULLETIN OF THE
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil,
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, and embraces it in theory, design, con-
struction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the de-
sign of gas engines, together with their adaption to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of en-
gineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a gen-
eral descriptive study of the different types of engines
with discussions on the general management, operation,
care and special uses to which this type of motor may
be applied. During the second year the general theory
of the gas engine is studied and the design of an engine
for a specific purpose is undertaken by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical'and thermodynamic
efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Experiments
in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation of
vaporizers and curburetters, construction of spark coils
with management and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practi-
cal application to the theories advanced in the class room
by the complete building and testing of a gas engine of a
design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each student
is required to prepare the patterns and core-boxes, ma-
chine the castings and forgings, assemble the complete
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
engine and submit a comprehensive report of a test on the
machine constructed. If the report proves satisfactory
a certificate of proficiency is given to the student and the
gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student must have
completed courses XIVa and XIVb in shop work and
must certify by examination or certificate^ evidence of a
knowledge of Algebra as far as logarithms and his
further ability to.pursue the studies of the first year.
Candidates shall also write a short essay, which must be
satisfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and para-
graph construction.
The equipment and facilities for the courses will be
found described on pages 69-72.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PRO-
GRAM IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS - First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Week a Hrs.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Geometry	5	190	E	Trigonometry	5	191	H
Drawing	2	131	I	Drawing '	3	131	II
Shopwork	3	156	XIVC	Shopwork	3	156	Xivd
Chemistry	5	114	I	Chemistry	5	114	I
Physics	5	164	I	Physics	5	164	I
Gas Engines	•5	154	XI	Vapor Engines	5	154	XI
SECOND YEAR.
Motor Design	15	155	XII	Motor Design	10	155	XII
Laboratory	3	155	XIV	Laboratory	3	155	XIV
Gas Engine	3	155	xm	Gas Engine Engines and	3	155	xm
				Boilers	3	154	X
76
BULLETIN OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and me-
chanical work. The study of the subjects arranged in
the program of Electrical Engineering is intended to
give a general education as well as a special training in
the technical branches involved in the various practical
applications of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires skill in
handling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records of
the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
center in the growth of which electricity is taking a very
prominent part. Electric power generated by steam is
now being distributed and utilized in several large plants,
some using the three phase alternating system, while
others are using the direct current. One of the largest
water power developments in the Middle West is situated
within a few miles of the University. From this es-
tablishment we receive three phase alternating currents
which furnish light for our buildings and grounds, and
power for driving motors in our shops and printing of-
fices, etc., all of which are operated by electricity.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
77
There are numerous other transmission lines and elec-
trical power plants operated by water power within a
short distance. Our students visit all of these plants,
accompanied by an instructor who points out the appli-
cations of the text-book theory in the design of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working condi-
tions.
Each candidate for graduation must present at the end
of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying the
results of an extended original research on an engineering
subject, chosen at the beginning of the year, with the
approval of the head of the department. The descriptive
part must be typewritten on legal cap paper, and bound
in book form together with the drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows: A three phase A. C. induction motor ar-
ranged to operate on single phase circuits with a con-
denser compensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K. W.
composite wound Wood alternator of the latest type
with exicatter and a full set of switchboard instru-
ments, several transformers of different capacity, a high
tension transformer for testing insulation, an Edison bipo-
lar 15 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-Houston arc
light machine with regulator and fifteen lamps, a Wood arc
transformer for testing insulation, an Edison bipolar 15
machine capacity 25 lights, an Edison bipolar 3 K. W.
125 V. dynamo with special winding, a Van Depoele com-
pound wound dynamo, a special A.C. 5 H. P. dynamo or
rotary converter, a series wound dynamo with wrought
iron field, number of small motors, a forty horse power
high speed automatic engine, a set of inclined coil alter-
nating current portable instruments voltmeter, ammeter
*1
78
BULLETIN OF THE
and wattmeter, telegraphing relays, sounders, switch-
boards, etc., telephone apparatus including subscribers
sets of various modern types, a fifty drop manual switch-
board complete and a lot of separate drops, jacks,
switches, lightning arresters, etc., automatic telephone
switchboard containing first and second selector and con-
nector switches, interrupter heat coils, etc., and three sub-
scribers sets—with this apparatus all the operations in-
volved in the operation of a 10,000 system may be per-
formed, a complete central energy switchboard, several
lines and subscribers sets and a selective signaling four
party line outfit, a collection of historical sets including
Reis’ transmitter and receiver, a standard portable bridge,
a common portable bridge, a testing battery, a power or
foot lathe with wood turning tools, drills and hand tools
for metals, a set of tools for metal working, a calibrating
lamp rack, a D’Arsonval and common galvanometers, Bal-
listic galvanometer, standard condenser, etc., for capacity
work, resistance boxes, standard megohms, etc., high re-
sistance Thompson galvanometer, standard cells, volt-
meter arranged for the comparison on incandescent lamps,
a plug switchboard controlling all circuits, a small engine
belted to shafting to drive a plating dynamo and a buffer
for cleaning and polishing work to be plated, solution
tank, etc.,—in all, a complete outfit for electrotype work,
a hot wire ammeter, twelve ammeters and voltmeters
mostly of the Weston type for direct current measure-
ments, a set of wood working tools, a Kohlrausch bridge
for measuring battery resistance, etc., a lot of arc lamps
series and constant potential open and enclosed arcs of
various wattmeters of various types, a collection of mo-
tor starting rheostats, several sets of parts of incandescent^
lamps showing the various stages in their manufacture, a
large collection of porcelain insulators used in electrical
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	79
work including a lot of insulators for high tension trans-
mission lines, a lot of armature core disks, transformer
core stampings, formed coils, brush holders, pole pieces,
samples of insulation, commutator segments, etc., used in
dynamos of good design, donated by. leading manufac-
turers of electrical machinery, a case of marked samples
of wire insulators, lamps, and other construction mate-
rials, a library of practical technical books of reference
and files of leading periodicals and trade publications, a
Cooper Hewitt mercury vapor lamp, a high frequency
Tesla coil and condenser, a working model of the induc-
tion motor showing the action of the rotating field, a
transmission dynamometer capacity 1-4 to 10 horse power
for determining the efficiency of small dynamos, a full
size armature winding models mounted to rotate in bipo-
lar and multipolar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with
universal switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An absolute
electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for illus-
trating static phenomena, four induction coils, six bridges
of different types, several ammeters and voltmeters, one
2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance coils, a his-
torical set of motors showing evolution of the modern
machine from the early forms of the reciprocating type,
ten galvanometers of various types, a complete X-ray
outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless telegraphy. For
further apparatus consult pages 48 and 49 of this cat-
alogue
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shopwork,
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages 46, 66, 69 and 70.
4
80
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER IN ELEC-
TRICAL ENGINEERING.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS	Hrs.	SEE FOR		I SUBJECTS	Hrs. !		SEE FOR	
	a	DESCRIPTION		l	a		DESCRIPTION	
First Term	Week		Course	j Second Term	Week			
		Page					Course	
Algebra	5	| 148	!	Analyt. Geom.		5	149	• ii
French	5	169	I	French		5	169	i
Drawing	3	131	I	Drawing		3	131	ii
Chemistry	4	114	II	Chemistry		4	114	IT
Shopwork	3	155	XIV(Z	Shopwork		3	155	XIV&
SOPHOMORE YEAR								
Calculus	5	149	III	Calculus		5	150	IV, V
Des. Geom.	4	131	III	Des. Geom.		4	131	in
Physics	5	165	II, III	Physics		5	165	ii, hi
Shopwork	3	156	XIVC	Shopwork		3	156	xivd
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	122	VIII	An. Mechanics Meeh, of Mat.	2 3	122 123	VIII X
Kinematics	5	153	V	Machine			
English	3	137	I	Design	5	153	VI
Physics	3	165	IV	English	3	137	I
Shopwork	3	156	XIV£	Physics	3	165	IV
				Shopwork	3	156	xiv/
SENIOR YEAR
Dynamo Machinery	5	134	III	Dynamo Machinery	5	. 134	in
Thermodyn’m	5	. 151	I	Electrical Lab.	5	135	IV
Electrical Lab.	5	135	IV	Designing	3	135	V
Designing Thesis	3	135	V	Thermodyn’m Thesis	5	151	I
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
81
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short program, which may
be completed in two years. The studies are arranged to
give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental theories
of electricity and magnetism, as well as a certain amount
of skill in handling electrical machinery and appliances.
Alg'ebra, geometry, trigonometry, and elementary physics
are included, for they are necessary in order to carry on
successfuly the practical work of designing, manufactur-
ing and testing or operating electrical apparatus. Train-
ing in this practical work is given in the drafting room,
the machine shops, and in the electrical and physical
laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power are
learned by testing, repairing and making additions to the
University plant, and by visiting the numerous electric
establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by an in-
structor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as quadratics.
82
BULLETIN OF THE
They shall also write a short essay which must be satis-
factory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and paragraph
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
When the required studies have -been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, according to the following
schedule, after they have finished all the work required
for entrance, shall be as given on page 63.
All others are special students and for them the fee is
as given for applied electricity on page 34.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PRO-
GRAM IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	190	c	Geometry	5	190	D
Drawing	3	131	I	Drawing	3	131	II
Shopwork	3	155	xiva	Shopwork	3	155	XIV&
Physics	5	164	I	Physics	5	164	I
Applied Electricity	5	133	i	Applied Electricity	5	133	I
SECOND YEAR.
Trigonometry Designing	5 3	191 135	H V	Engines and Boilers	3	154	X
Shopwork	3	156	XIVC	Designing	3	135	V
Dynamo				Shopwork	3	.156	xivd
Machinery	5	134	in	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	134	HI
Electricity	5	134	ii	Applied			
				Electricity	5	134	n
COLLEGE OF
ARCHITECTURE
84
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that
a^. deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Artist is the heaven-gifted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of
form, color, texture, and ornament, can build them
structurally and economically perfect. It is seldom that
any mind combines all of these attributes. It is more
seldom that to-day’s practice requires them in any one
man. To-day, one man “designs” ; another “frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of Architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture from
the College of Engineering and to create the new College
of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offer three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The program
in design requires four years for completion and is
offered to students wishing to specialize in design; the
degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is given
at completion. The Engineering Program is of the same
length and is offered to men wishing to specialize in
construction; the degree is Bachelor of Science in Archi-
tectural Engineering. Graduate years are offered in
both programs, and upon completion, Masters’ degrees
are conferred. A Short Program covering two years is
offered to students finding it impossible or inexpedient
to devote to school work the time required for com-
pleting the programs leading to degrees. Upon com-
pletion of the Short Program a Certificate of Proficiency
is given.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	85
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the draughting-room continuously during the morn-
ing hours from 8 to 12, and for periods of class-room
work in the afternoon. In the Senior Years and fin the
Short Program the class-room requirements are less
and the time to be spent in the draughting-room corre-
spondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete programs must be at least eighteen
years of age and must have completed the work prepara-
tory to the programs either in the Preparatory School
of the University or in another accredited school; or,
entrance may be by examination at the University on
the first two days of the Fall Term or in Chicago at the
offices of the University on days announced in the press
of that city.
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the routine
of the courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in Archi-
tecture, or in Architectural Engineering, from Notre
Dame or another School of Architecture of equal stand-
ing. The University will confer the Master’s degree on
her own graduate students not in residence at the end of
one year if that time is spent in an atelier of the first
order or in travel abroad following an approved pro-
gram of study and investigation; or at the end of not
less than two years if that time is spent in practice and
the University’s requirements are complied with.
EQUIPMENT.
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from a
small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
86	BULLETIN OF THE
complete. There are a number of signed drawings—
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from archi-
tects of national reputation; a large elaborate model
complete in all its details of the new County building
in Chicago; photographs, engravings, plaster models,
reference books and manufacturers’ catalogues and
samples. The collection, however, needs to be increased
faster than the resources of the University will permit.
Philanthropic friends of Notre Dame can not give money,
or its equivalent, for a better purpose. The endowment
of a Traveling Fellowship, preferably for the study of
European Ecclesiastical Architecture, will be a benefac-
tion of the utmost value. One thousand dollars will
provide for one man for one year.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS.
Candidates for the Freshman Year in either four-
year program, or for the First Year of the Short Pro-
gram must be prepared to pass an examination in the
branches named below, unless they have done their pre-
paratory work at Notre Dame or in an accredited High
School.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English-; the remainder for
writing an essay.
Algebra. Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to loga-
rithms, as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or of
an equivalent in the larger treatises by other authors.
Geometry. Plane arid Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
history, as set out in the texts used in the high schools
and academies of the country.	•
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
the ordinary text-books.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equiva-
lent.
Botany. Elementary.
Zoology. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in high schools of good standing.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text book similar to
Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is also
required.
Civics. Elementary.	.
German. A three year’s course in German is re-
quired. Ability to translate at sight German into English,
and easy English sentences into Germon.
French. An equivalent course in French or any
other language may be offered for German.
Drawing. A knowledge of the use of drawing
instruments, of elementary projection drawing and free-
hand.
The Program of Studies Preparatory to the Programs in
Architecture is outlined and described in this Bulletin immedi-
ately following the description of the College work.
It is strongly urged that Students desiring to matriculate for
the Architectural Programs complete the First Year Courses in
Descriptive Geometry, Shades and Shadows, Perspective and
Elements of Architecture while pursuing their Preparatory work.
They will thus be enabled to get four years instruction in De-
sign instead of three. The value of the fourth year is equal
to that of any other two. Prospective Students who are not
doing their Preparatory work at Notre Dame may arrange by
addressing the Professor of Architecture to complete their
Courses by Correspondence. '
88
BULLETIN OF THE
THE PROGRAM IN DESIGN.
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
t	Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to design it that the student pursuing it will
have upon completion a liberal general education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural
Design and Composition. It may be undertaken by
students whose artistic intuition and temperament fit
them especially for the aesthetic side of a noble pro-
fession.
The course is built up around the work in the
draughting-room and atelier, where half of the student’s
time is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the
Freshman year with the intelligent study of the orders
and simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by means
of minor'and major problems involving the planning of
all classes of buildings from the simplest to the most
monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by exer-
cises in the various methods and media of rendering and
by a thorough course in freehand and modeling. All
instruction in planning and composing is based on correct
principles of design.
The materials and methods of all trades and profes-
sions engaged in building operations are systematically
studied in the Construction classes throughout the four
years of the program. The writing of specifications' for
each branch of labor is studied synchronously. ' Practical
work in the various trades is given so that the student
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	89
may know good work and thus be able to superintend
construction intelligently. The practical lessons are sup-
plemented by weekly inspection trips to the important
building operations and industries in the neighborhood
of the University.	-
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and
numerous practical problems solved.
Working drawings and details of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that graver
problems requiring a deep knowledge of the higher
mathematics may well be left to the architectural
engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations,
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of high
professional standing will give a number of the lectures
in this course.
The history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering four years. The method is
a combination of lectures, recitation and research. -
Courses either in mathematics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years complete
the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism and
research is done and larger and more complicated prob-
lems are given in design.
90
BULLETIN OF THE
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering.
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be
thorough, the engineer must specialize. One of his
specializations is in Architecture. His services are
needed to frame important buildings, to design their
foundations and to protect adjoining property while they
are in erection. The modern idea of education is to
progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs. The
College offers the Program in Architectural Engineering
because there is need of the services of the men who can
complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
should have a bent for mathematics and for painstaking,
exact draughting.
* The program of studies differs from that of the
Program in Design chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied mathematics are substituted
for the courses in English, economics and philosophy;
the more important construction courses go deeper into
theory; fractional work ends with the first pear; the
histories of ornaments and the “allied arts” are omitted;
and a relatively greater amount of time, increasing each
year, is spent in structural design.
The Graduate Year is spent entirely in the solving of
problems of the first order in architectural engineering.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
91
THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiency.
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class-room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year than in
either of the complete programs.
SUMMER WORK
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,
projects, measured drawings or work in an architect’s
office will be required of all students of architecture.
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
” A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the draughting-
room.
It is the intention to have the student work steadily
for four hours in the draughting-room during the
morning session and to attend recitation periods in the
afternoon session.	.
92
BULLETIN OF THE
»
PROGRAM IN DESIGN.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	see for DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Hist, of Arch. Construction Des. Geom. ) Perspective ) Freehand El. of Arch. English	2 3 1 1 8 3	109 106 131 131 109 137	I I III I I I	Hist, of Arch. Construction Shades and Shadows Freehand	( Pen-and-ink 1 El. of Arch. English	2 3 1 1 8 3	109 106 131 131 109 137	I I III I I I
SECOND YEAR.							
Hist, of Arch. Adv. Cons. Graphics Freehand	) Water Color f Design English	2 2 2 1 8 3	109 107 126 131 110 138	II II I II II II	Hist, of Arch. Adv. Cons. Graphics Theory Design Freehand	1 Modelling	f Design English	2 1 1 1 1 1 8 3	109 107 126 110 130 130 110 138	II II I I I I II II
THIRD YEAR.
Hist, of Orna.	2	109	hi	Elective	4		
Adv. Cons.	1	107	in	Hist, of Art	2	109	hi
Heat, and Vent.	2	108	i	Adv. Cons.	1	107	hi
Electricity	1	133	i	Sanitation	1	108	i
Freehand	2	131	HI	Freehand	1	2	130	in
Design	8	110	in	Modelling f	2	130	ii
Elective	4			Design	8	110	in
FOURTH YEAR.
	1	1	Elective	3-5 |	|
Elective	3-5 |	|	Bu. Relations )	
Plist. of Art	2 109 iv	and	/-	2 108 i
Freehand	2 131 iv	Prof. Ethics 1	
Design	10 110 iv	Freehand	2 131 iv
		Design (Thesis')	10 110 iv
At the beginning of his First Year, the student matriculating for the
Program in Design may, with the consent of the Faculty, elect a Major in
Mathematics instead of the Major in English. The Mathematics courses
for the four years will be as follows: Algebra, I; Analytic Geometry, II;
Calculus, III, IV, V; Physics, II, III; Analytic Mechanics, VII; Me-
chanics of Materials, X.
At the beginning of his Third Year, the student following the regular
Program in Design may, if his proficiency in English warrants it, elect to
follow during his Third and Fourth Years one of the following courses:
English, Philosophy, Political Science, any History, French, German or
Spanish. He may not, however, elect a course in the same language that
he offered for credit at matriculation. If the above election is denied the
student, he must continue his work in English for one or two years more
as may be decided by the Faculty.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	93
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
e Algebra	5	148	I	Anal. Geom.	5	149	II
Des. Geom.	3	T31	.1	Des. Geom.	3	131	I
Construction	3	106	I	Construction	3	106	I
Perspective }			III	Shades and			
W ater Color >	1	131	I	Shadows }			III
Freehand	)			I	Pen-and-ink >	1	131	I
El. of Arch.	8	109	I	Freehand	)			I
				El. of Arch.	8	109	I
SECOND YEAR.
Calculus	5	149	in	Calculus	5	150	IV, V
Physics	5	165	V, III	Physics	5	165	ii, m
Adv. Cons.	3	107	ii, in	Adv. Cons.	2	107	ii, in
Design	7	110	ii	The’y of Design	1	110	i
*				Design .	7	110	ii
THIRD YEAR.
Anal. Meehan.	5	122	VIII	Anal. Meeh. )	2	122	VIII ‘
Sanitary Eng.	2	125	VIII	Meeh, of (•			
Electricity	1	133	i	Material )	3	122	X
Heating and				Sanitary Eng.	•2	125	XIII
Ventilating	2	108	i	Surveying	3	121	II, III
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	109	I
Struc. Design	8	110	V	Struc. Design	8	110	V
FOURTH YEAR.
Arch. Eng.	2	107	IV	Arch. Eng.	3	107	IV
Bridges and				Graphics	5	126	XL
Roofs	5	126	XIV	Hist, of Arch.	2	109	II
Stereotomy	3	132	VI	Bu. Relations )			
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	II	and	[-	2	108	I
Struc. Design	8	108	VI	Prof. Ethics ) Thesis Design	8	| 110	VI
94
BULLETIN OF THE
SHORT PROGRAM
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS	Hrs. a	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS	Hrs. a	SEE for DESCRIPTION	
First Term	Week	Page	Course	Second Term	Week	Page	Course
				Hist, of Arch.	2	109	I
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	I	Construction	3	106	I
Construction	3	106	I	Shades			
Des. Geom. )				and Shadows	1	131	III
Perspective )	1	131	III	Pen-and-ink )			
Freehand	1	131	I	Freehand j	1	131	I
El. of Arch.	12	109	I	El. of Arch.	4	109	I
				Design	8 •	110	II
SECOND YEAR.
				Hist, of Arch.	2	109	ii
Hist, of Arch.	2	109	ii	Adv. Cons.	3	107	ii, in
Adv. Cons.	3	107	ii, in	Graphics	1	126	i
Graphics	2	126	i	Sanitation	1	108	i
Heat, and				The’y of Design	1	110	i
Ventilation	2	108	i	Bus. Relations 1			
Electricity	1	133	i	and	[•	2	108	i
Freehand	[	1	133	ii	Prof. Ethics )			
Water Color )	1	133	i	Freehand	£ Modelling	1	130	ir
Design	8	110	ii		1	130	i
				Design	8	110	in
1*
COLLEGE OF LAW

96
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF LAW
For several years a systematic movement has been
in progress, under the auspices of the bench and bar
of the country to elevate the standing and prompte
the efficiency of the legal profession, and make it as
learned in fact as it is in name. The most essential
preliminary step to this end, as lawyers generally
agree, is to prescribe requirements and examinations
more comprehensive and rigorous as a test of quali-
fications for admission to the bar. Under the influ-
ence largely of the American Bar Association, the
period now commonly prescribed for the study of
law in a college is three years.
A period of three years study is prescribed for
undergraduates in the College of Law of the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame. The courses lead when satis-
factorily completed, to the degree of Bachelor of
Laws. The Graduate progTam comprises an additional or
fourth year, and leads to the degree of Master of Laws.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location of
the University for diligent and persevering work, it
is possible for industrious students to do at least a
fourth more in a year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate lawr students are divided into
three classes, corresponding to each year of the
program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws.
The Graduate course is for students who have
received that degree and aim at attaining, by further
study and practical work, to a higher grade of pro-
ficiency. A full year of study in each class is obli-
gatory. Moreover, the student must pass a satisfac-
tory general examination at the close of each scho-
lastic year. Graduates entitled to vote are admitted
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
97
to the bar on motion of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are
admitted to the first year on presentation of a cer-
tificate of graduation from some High School accred-
ited to the State Universities or by examination on
subjects scheduled in any of the programs of the
Preparatory School at Notre Dame. Certificates
showing that the candidate has completed subjects
required in any of the four year programs of the
Preparatory School at Notre Dame, or of any
.other reputable preparatory school giving equivalent
courses, will be accepted in lieu of examinations.
Students from other reputable law schools are
received at any time and allowed due credit for the
work previously done. They must, however, be in residence
for at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice
of the profession or have only been admitted to the
bar, as the case may be, are admitted to the Senior
class and entitled to the degrees appropriate to their
work and standing at graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not intend to become candidates
for the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply
to add to their educational acquirements a knowledge
of the fundamental principles of law, may at any
time in the year have their names enrolled on the list
of special students. No extra expense is thereby
incurred. Yet they must be sufficiently advanced in
age and education to justify the belief that they can
understand and appreciate instruction in the law. No
particular academic entry “requirement is prescribed
for them, aside from securing the consent of the
Director of Studies and being of sufficient age and
98
BULLETIN OF THE
capacity to understand and profit by instruction in
the law. The number of such students is likely to
increase steadily, for year by year it is becoming
more manifest that an education is not complete with-
out a knowledge of at least the elementary legal
principles. Many a person has been forced to do
exactly the contrary of what he intended through his
failure to understand the essential elements of a
contract. Many a one has been compelled to pay
heavy damages for personal injuries caused by negli-
gence, or failure to perform a duty, or improper
performance of it, where no liability would exist if
the law of torts had been known and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
The study of cases is usually begun in September
and continues long enough to enable students to
understand, analyze and criticise the decisions as-
signed to them for study and recitation. Lectures
and explanations supplement this work. After thus
familiarizing themselves -with cases, they are expected
to read the authorities cited daily in class, whether
in the text-books, lectures or quizzes. In the prepara-
tion also of written theses ’from month to month,
comprising on an average fifteen pages of legal cap,
they must necessarily consult and cite them. In moot-court
work, likewise, they are prepared for actual practice by
making a careful study not only of the cases in the re-
ports, but also of those cited in text-books and digests.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of
the text-books they studied, and such as have merely
attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading-
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligi-
ble to appear for examination. As many law students
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	99
come from States in which this test is applied, the
use of text-books is deemed necessary. The books
used by students become peculiarly serviceable in their
subsequent practice. They may be purchased in the
Students’ Office at the University at the lowest retail
prices. The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25 a year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded
at Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination
with text-book work, case readings and daily exam-
. inations, its great value and utility can not be over-
estimated. - Each subject is fully covered by lectures,
text-book work, weekly quiz, monthly theses, bi-
monthly examinations, the reading of pertinent cases
and formal trials in the moot court and other courts
of the College. Students have also the advantage of attend-
ing important cases in the higher courts of South Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thor-
ough and practical. The earnest and industrious
student can accomplish twice as much in a given time
at Notre Dame as he can in an office or at home. With
comparative immunity from the distractions and
temptations of city life, he can give his entire time to
study and necessary recreation. In short, he can here
« study a greater number of hours and do more class work
day by day than probably anyhere else in the country.
Students have from three to four recitations daily,
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. From one to two hours additional
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
four hours weekly are required for moot court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this
society and the moot court offer exceptional oppor-
tunity and strong incentive to acquire readiness in
debate, fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory,
100
BULLETIN OF THE
yet much benefit may be derived from attending the
regular classes in elocution and oratory in the College
of Arts and Letters.
©
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law
Program it is studied and kept before the class, with
recitations day by day at the same hour, until finished.
It is believed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would
be if frequently interrupted by the intervention of other
and dissimilar subjects.
THE MOOT COURT
All students are required to attend and participate
in the exercises of the moot court. Students of the
first year are expected to serve on juries and as wit-
nesses, while those of the second year assist the
Seniors and Graduates in the conduct of the trials.
The court is fully organized, having a judge, clerk,
state’s attorney, sheriff, coroner and reporter. Plead-
ings are filed in the clerk’s office, served and returned
by the sheriff, brought to an issue with due formality
by the attorneys, and the trial proceeds under the rules of
evidence before a member of the Faculty acting, as judge.
In addition to the moot court, which corresponds
to the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully-
equipped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk,
master-in-chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented.
The United States District Court, for example, has its dis-
trict judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
101
their work. The statement of facts in the cases tried
are furnished by the Faculty. Students acquire in
this way a knowledge of the customary procedure in
the regular courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger dhan the library at
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether
any of them shows any more care in the choice of
books, or is better adapted for the use of students. All
the latest reports of State and Federal courts are on
its shelves, and no difficulty is experienced at any time
in finding the cases needed for reference, thesis writ-
ing and moot court work. A great library, with a
crowdingly large attendance of students—too many
to be personally known by or to have personal atten-
tion from the Faculty—may often be less available for
use or accessible than a comparatively small one. It
happens sometimes in such cases that twenty or more
students are found vainly scrambling at the same time
to secure possession of a particular report or text-
book. Such experience, fortunately, does not fall to
the lot of the young men studying at Notre Dame.
Not only all the latest reports, but likewise the leading
text-books, are to be found on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in
Moot court trials, but must not be carried to private
rooms, nor hidden in desks. This rule is rigidly
enforced by the librarian. It is intended for the
advantage and to facilitate the work of the students in
common, for all have a right to feel reasonably certain
that when a book is needed it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
3,500, but so carefully have they been selected that
102	BULLETIN OF THE
they may be said to surpass in practical utility many
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the law
lecture room. It is practically open all day and until
9 :30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation are
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library
of the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable
hours to law students. The library privileges are on
a generous scale, and students are not specially
charged for making proper use of the books, but if
a book be lost or injured through negligence the cost
of the book is charged to the borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings on Wednesday evenings. All stu-
dents of the College are members of it. They are
required, each in his turn, to participate in its debates
and other exercises. The debates commonly deal with
questions germane to the law, but subjects of history,
political economy, and the like, are also discussed. An
excellent opportunity is* afforded at the meetings of
the society to develop skill, power and fluency in
public speaking. One of the professors usually pre-
sides and aids the members with his counsel and
suggestions. A Parliamentary Law meeting, with
exercises in public speaking and debating, takes place
each Wednesday afternoon.
THE COURSES IN LAW
The following plan is observed in the courses given
in the College of Law. The text-books used are noted
after each subject. A special recitation is held each day
for first year men, and is so noted in the schedule which
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	103
follows; a like arrangement obtains for third year men.
1906-07 AND EVERY SUCCEEDING YEAR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Kent’s Commentaries, Broztme (for beginners).
Persons and Domestic Relations, Tiffany.
Contracts, Clark.
Torts, Hale.
Criminal Procedure, Clark.
Criminal Law, Clark.
Real Property, Hopkins.
Medical Jurisprudence, Lectures.
Natural Law and Legal Ethics, Lectures.
Sales, Case System.
Moot Court Practice weekly.
Parliamentary Law weekly.
Monthly Thesis.
1907-08 AND EVERY SUCCEEDING THIRD YEAR
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Blackstone’s Commentaries, Blickensderfer. (For begin-
ners.
Common Law Pleadings, Shipman.
Agency, Tiffany.
Partnership, George.
Private Corporations, Clark:
Public Corporations, Ingersoll.
Insurance, Vance.
Bailments and Carriers, Hale.
State and Federal Courts.
Federal Procedure, Hughes.
Interpretation and Construction of Laws, Black.
Moot Court Practice weekly.
Parliamentary Law weekly.
Monthly Thesis.
4?
104
BULLETIN OF THE
1908-09 AND EVERY SUCCEEDING THIRD YEAR
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Elements of American Jurisprudence, Robinson. (For
beginners.)
Equity Jurisprudence, Fetter.
Code Pleadings, Case System.
Damages, Notes from Lectures.
Commercial Paper, Bills, Notes and Checks.
Bankruptcy, Insolvency and Receivers.
Constitutional Law, Black.
International Law, Glenn.
Criminal Law, Clark.
Equity Pleadings, Shipman.
Evidence, Civil and Criminal, Case System.
Wills, Gardner.
Executors and Administrators, Croswell.
Suretyship and Guaranty, Pingrey.
Moot Court Practice weekly.
Parliamentary Law weekly.
Monthly Thesis.
Graduate Courses cover the entire field by way of
review, together with Moot Court practice, office work,
etc. The optional studies include Roman Law, Admi-
ralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright, Patents,
Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc.
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
(jin the description of the courses of instruction an
hour means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation
or lecture room and one hundred and twenty minutes in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year.)	*	.
106
BULLETIN OF THE
ANATOMY
I.
Human Histology. Laboratory work and demon-
strations. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Human Physiology.
II.	.
Human Histology. Lectures, recitations and lab-
oratory work. The work covers a thorough course in
Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening,
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system—brain
and spinal cord, termination of nerve fibers, etc. Draw-
ings made from each preparation. Text-book, Piersol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two 'terms.]
HL
Human Anatomy. Lectures and Recitations. Oste-
ology and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular,
vascular and nervous systems and of the organs of
special sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book,
Gray.	•
[Three hours week for four terms.]
ARCHITECTURE
I. AND II.	*
Construction. In these courses the student obtains
a thorough knowledge of the materials and methods of
the mason’s, carpenter’s, metal worker’s and painter’s
trades. Each trade is considered separately, and at con-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
107
elusion an exhaustive study of specification writing and
methods of estimating for it is made. The University
constantly furnishes employment to a large force of
trained mechanics who will give personal lessons to the
student in all branches of these trades. Inspection visits
are made weekly, as a supplementary exercise in super-
intendence, to important building operations in the
neighborhood. Detail drawings of constructive methods
are made exactly as in an architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each
student is required to stake out on the campus one of
his projects and to furnish all levels required by the
builder in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of
the architect’s level and compass.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Advanced Construction. In this course the student
studies the construction and design of steel framing,
fireproofing of all forms, reinforced concrete, footings
and foundations.
Working drawings for one of the student’s projects
are made. Especial care and accuracy are demanded in
the preparation of the framing plans and details. This
work is traced and blueprinted by Freshmen students.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering. A course in which
are solved graphically and analytically more complicated
problems in structural design and applied mechanics,
with especial study of reinforced concrete.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
108
BULLETIN OF THE
Sanitation. This subject is taught from text-book
and embraces sanitary engineering pertaining to build-
ings, as follows: sewerage, water supply, lighting and
ventilation, plumbing work, subsoil drainage, dry foun-
dation walls and cellars; also drawings of plumbing
systems and fixtures.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Heating and Ventilation. This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam,
etc.,—are carefully examined and studied. The radia-
tion of heat from surfaces, the different systems of
piping, condition of air as to moisture, amount of air
required, causes and best means adopted to secure pure
air; the necessity of good ventilation and the latest
approved methods for securing this’all important feature
are some of the topics considered in this study.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Business Relations. This course consists of lectures
in which are given descriptions of a system of book-
keeping suited to the needs of an architect’s business, a
system of building accounts, filing system for catalogues
and prints, a card-index system for prints and general
information; of forms for agreements with clients, for
proposals and acceptances, for contracts and bonds, and
for certificates; the laws affecting clients, contractors
and architects; and the rules of professional ethics in
private practice, competitions and municipal affairs.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	109
VIII,	IX, X AND XI.
History of Architecture. This course comprises a
study of the early beginnings, growth and development
of architectural styles. It includes ethnography as applied
to architectural art; ancient architecture; Egyptian
architecture; Assyrian architecture; Grecian architecture;
Etruscan, Roman and Sass'anian architecture; Christian
architecture in France, Belgium and Holland, Germany,
Scandinavia, England, Spain and Portugal, and Italy;
Saracenic and Ancient American architecture; Byzantine
architecture.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
XIL
History of Ornament. A study of the origin and
evolution of ornament and the application of the same
together with exercises in motive.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
History of Allied Arts. A brief study of the field
of art with especial reference to sculpture, metal work-
ing, mural painting, stained glass and mosaic.
[Two hours a week.for one term.]
XIV.
History of Construction. A critical study of the
types of construction of the ancient, medieval and modern
builders, tracing the relation of the type to the problem
and the development of the style from the type.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
The Elements of Architecture. This course is a
study of the Five Orders of architecture and is given by
110
BULLETIN OF THE
lectures, recitations and drawing. The study embraces
a thorough analysis of each order, in which the principal
and distinguishing features of each are clearly shown and
comparisons made. Also a study in detail of the forms
and proportions characterizing each is made in the class
room. Problems pertaining to the orders are given in the
drawing room, and detail drawings and colorings made.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
XVI,	XVII AND XVIII.
Design. The study of problems in architectural
design, embodying the subjects of composition and form.
This course expands from Elementary Design (second
year) to Advanced Design and Thesis Work (fourth
year), and includes the handling of design in monu-
mental structures, and its application to modern buildings,
such as hospitals, theaters, municipal buildings, libraries,
churches, etc.	• .
The program for the second year requires the execu-
tion of nine minor, and nine major problems; that for
the third year of nine minor and six major problems;
that for the fourth year of four minor and three major
problems and the thesis.
Students of the Engineering Program will be given
o	o	o	o
Engineering problems exclusively beginning with the
second term of the third year.
[Seven, eight and twelve hours a week,
respectively, for three years.]
XIX.
Theory of Design. A thorough study of the prin-
ciples of planning and proportion supplemented by study
of the perfection and faults of the world’s most famous
buildings.
[One hour: a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Ill
ASTRONOMY
Astronomy. Practical. This course is designed to
meet the “requirements of Civil Engineering students and
to give them the training and information necessary for
intelligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their pro-
fessional career. The course comprises a study of
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of more
precision than those used in ordinary surveying. The
adjustment and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computation; problems in finding rig-ht ascensions and
declination; different methods for finding latitude, loned-
tude and time are studied in detail, and the methods of
making the observation and their adjustments, and dis-
cussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into sidereal,
and sidereal time into solar. In connection with this
subject is given a more complete study of many of the
topics considered in elementary astronomy, as here they
are treated mathematically; as for example, methods for
finding parallax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and
correction for refraction. The subjects of procession,
nutation, annual aberration, proper motion of stars, etc.,
are studied. Text-books, Young, Greene.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY
Lectures and Laboratory Work. Lectures on the
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of ‘sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
112	BULLETIN OF THE	.
pointed out. The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture media
and in studying pure cultures of certain nonpathogenic
bacteria in these media. Observations on the micro-
scopic characteristics of bacteria and special attention to
the microscopic technique required in bacteriological
work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic
bacteria. Emphasis is given to the detection of patho-
genic germs by the various staining processes. Inocula-
tion of animals/ Bacteriological investigation of water,
air and soil. Text-book, Abbott's Principles of Bac-
teriology.
[Three laboratory hours a week for one term.]
BOTANY
I.
Botany. Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the develop-
ment of the embryo and the processes of pollination and
fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell, of its
products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and the
various physiological phenomena; the structure, growth,
reproduction and general classification of the algae, fungi,
lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants. Text-book.
Bastin's College Botany.
[Four hours a week for two terms.-]
II.
Botanical Laboratory. Supplementary to Course I.
Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryophyta,
pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in Course I.
Drawings must be made of all plants examined. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become familiar with their mor-
f
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
113
phology, structure and classification. The course is to
accompany or to be preceded by Course I. Provision is
also made in this course for students in pharmacy to
take a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical botany.
Study of the determination and classification of the
simpler plants. The analysis of the phanerogams occu-
pies the time during the spring months'and the student
is made familiar with the habitat and characteristics of
the local flora. Text-book for classification of plants.
Kellerman’s Spring Flora.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Botany. Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same
as that laid out in Strasburger’s or Vine’s text-book of
Botany. Special study is made of the physiology,
ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and classification of plants.
Text-book, Strasburger.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany. • Supplementary
to Course III., and either following or accompanying it :
(a)	Plant Histology and Physiology. Half of
the time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to plant
histology and physiology. The student is required to
study practically the method of killing, fixing, embed-
ding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of plant
tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(b)	Plant Classification Advanced. The other
half of the laboratory work is devoted to the determina-
tion and classification of the more difficult plants, the
compositae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc. Her-
barium study is required, as well as preparing and
114
BULLETIN OF THE
collecting plants for preservation. During spring and
autumn frequent excursions into the neighboring fields
and woods are made for the purpose of studying and
collecting for preservation the local aquatic and land flora.
Text-book, Britton’s Manual.
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
Systematic Botany. Principally laboratory and her-
barium work in special groups of phanerograms and
cryptograms. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in botany. Library,
reference books and seminar work. Original research
work.
CHEMISTRY
I.
(a) General Chemistry. A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book Remsen’s Elements of Chemistry.,
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b") A Laboratory Course covering in the labora-
tory the work of the Lecture Course (I. a.) and designed
to accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) General Descriptive Chemistry. Recitations
and experimental lectures treating of the fundamental
principles of chemistry, and designed to meet the require-
ments of the students of the College of Engineering.
Text-book, General Inorganic Chemistry, Alexander.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	115
(d) A Laboratory Course arranged to fit the
needs of Engineering students.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
III.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Ci-iemistry. For Bio-
logical, General Science and Chemistry students. Lec-
tures and recitations. A complete study of the elements
and their most important compounds., following the classi-
fication based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a
discussion of the theories of the science. Careful atten-
tion is given to the technical chemical processes and
industries, and to the writing of chemical reactions.
Text book, NewtlTs Inorganic Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.] ■
’	III.
{b) Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory
course to accompany Course III. (at), the work con-
sisting of the preparation by the student of the elements
and their more typical compounds, determination of
molecular weights, verification of the fundamental laws
of chemistry, etc. During the latter part of the course,
special attention is given to the characteristic reactions
of the metals and to the principles of chemical analysis.
Text-book, Thorp.	'
[Two hours a week, with discussion, for two terms.]
IV.
Qualitative Analysis. The work of this course
comprises, in the laboratory, the study of the reactions
involved in the separation and detection. of the more
common inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts,
mixtures of salts, and complex substances such as earths,
lectures.
[Four hours a week, with recitation, for one term.] -
&
116	BULLETIN OF THE
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and vol-
umetrically. Complete analysis of a number of simple
salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis of many
complex substances. Text-books, Appleton and S chimp f.
[Four hours a week, with recitation, for two terms.]
VI.
(a) Elementary Organic Chemistry. Lectures
and recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their
properties. Special attention is given to the aliphatic
and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(&) Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the precedirig, involving the prepara-
tion by the student in the laboratory of the most impor-
tant and typical organic compounds and the investigation
of their properties. Text-book, Gatterman’s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
(a) Urinary Analysis. A course of laboratory
exercises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as well
as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(Z?) Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of
poisoning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	117
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
i.	Gas Analysis.
ii.	Water Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and Fats.
vi.	Iron Analysis.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a) Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&) Advanced Organic Laboratory. (1) The
first term of this course is spent principally in the making
of organic preparations by methods demanding special
care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2) The second
term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,
special notes and reference works.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
X.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this
course, the chemical bases and their compounds are con-
sidered, with special reference to their importance in
&
118
BULLETIN OF THE
pharmacy and materia medica. Text-book, Sadtler’s and
Trimble’s Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
XI.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(a) Electrochemistry. Lectures, experiments and
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and their
application in the chemical industries, separation of
metals, the preparation of chemical elements and elec-
trosynthesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen and
Liiipke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&) Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI. (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electrochemis-
try, electrolysis electrosynthesis and electrometallurgy.
Quantitative determination of metals electrolytically.
Text-books, Liilpke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.	.
History of Chemistry. The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book,
Meyer. References to chemical periodicals.
• [Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(a)	Physical Chemistry. Lectures, recitations
and demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas
density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the phase rule,
thermochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van
Deventer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
”1	J
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
119
(b)	Experimental Physical Chemistry. Lab-
oratory work to accompany Course XIII. (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, molecular
weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling point
methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric de-
terminations of inorganic substances. Special reference
work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XVI.
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine.
FIRST YEAR
Moral. The Articles of the Creed. The General
Principles of Morality. Virtue and Sin. The Com-
mandments of God. Text-book, Manual of Christian
Doctrine.
120
BULLETIN OF THE
SECOND YEAR
Moral. The Commandments of the Church. The
Evangelical Counsels and Beatitudes. Worship and
Means of Sanctification,—Grace, Prayer, the Sacraments,
Liturgy. Text-books, Manual of Christian Doctrine.
*
THIRD YEAR
Dogma. Revealed Religion. Pre-Christian Revela-
tion. The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church.
God Considered in Himself. Text-book, Wilmer’s Hand-
book of the Christian Religion.
FOURTH YEAR
Dogma. God the Creator. God the Redeemer.
Sanctification. Grace. The Sacraments. The Church
as a Means of Salvation. Text-book, Wilmer’s Hand-
book of the Christian Religion.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are con-
sidered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, double curved, and warped surfaces;
problems relating to tangent planes, to single curved,
double curved, and warped surfaces; intersection of
surfaces; spherical projections; orthographic, stereo-
graphic, globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
construction of maps, shades and shadows; linear per-
spective; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises requiring
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry,
are added by the instructor. Text-book, Church.’
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	121
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions ; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots;. laying out land; parting oil land ;
dividing up land; public lands survey. Text-book,
Gillespie.
[Five hours a week for one te"rm.]
m.
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory ;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in
the class room; practice in keeping field notes; computa- .
tion and plots.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
IV.
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit,
and stadia; mining surveying; mining claims; survey of
mines with shafts and drifts; determining positions of
ends of tunnels, 'and depths below surface; theory of
hydrographic and city surveying; g*eodetic surveying and
leveling; measuring base lines; adjustments of angles,
triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude and azimuth;
time and longitude; changing mean time into sidereal
time and sidereal time to' mean time. Text-book,
Johnson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
122
BULLETIN OF THE
V.
Surveying. Exercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the field, leveling; practice in hydro-
graphic surveying.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Railroad Surveying. This course comprises all the
theory pertaining- to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying* for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets; obstacles to location of curves; special
problems in curves; theory of compound curves; turnouts
and crossings; curving the rail on curves and elevation
of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical curves;
earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory of excavation
and embankment; correction in excavation on curves;
cross-section leveling; theory of the transition curve and
practical applications. Text-book, Searle, Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Railroad Surveying. Exercises in the field; staking
out and running tangents, simple, compound and transi-
tion curves; execution on the ground of many problems
previously treated theoretically; survey for a short line
of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and setting slope
stakes; making profiles and maps; calculating the neces-.
sary excavations and embankments and cost of construc-
tion; culverts.
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	123
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics, and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
students to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation
of energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction,
etc. Text-book, Ziwet.
{Required of students in Civil, Electrical and Me-
chanical Engineering.)
[Five hours- a week for first term. Two hours a week for sec-
ond term.]	•
IX.
Geodesy. This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil Engineering students in the Junior year, and
comprises a study of the instruments and methods of
observation^ base measurements and field work of the
triangulation; methods of least squares, elementary
course; calculation of the triangulation, and theory of
probable errors; geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and
azimuths. This is followed by a brief discussion of the
figure of the earth. Text-book, Merriman.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
X.
Mechanics of Materials. This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of
forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of the
124
BULLETIN OF THE
materials of engineering, their properties and methods
of' testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and continuous
beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns are examined
according to Euler’s, Rankine’s, and other formulae, and
results compared. Some of the other subjects con-
sidered in this course, are torsion of shafts, the trans-
mission of power by shafts, apparent combined stresses,
such as flexure and compression, flexure and torsion, etc.
Compound columns and beams, reinforced concrete
beams, plate girders and other forms.- Then is studied
the subjects, resilience and work, impact and fatigue,
true internal stresses, centrifugal tension and flexure,
unsymmetric loads on beams,—the course closing with
a study of the mathematical theory of elasticity. Text-
book, Merriman.
{Required of students in Civil, Electrical and Me-
chanical Engineering.)
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended to
familiarize the student with the practical details of laying-
out and constructing highways, the method of drainage,
grading, and most suitable road covering, the improve-
ment of streets in cities and materials used for paving
and covering. The manner of preparing the street
before paving is placed in position is fully considered
and illustrated. The course includes a thorough dis-
cussion of the theory of pavements and a description
of the various materials used, such as cobble and stone-
block, asphalt, brick, wood and broken stone pavements.
The method of preparing plans and specifications for the
various conditions arising are considered and original
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
125
plans are prepared by students. Attention is also given
to the construction of street-car tracks in paved streets.
Text-book, Baker.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering. This course is taken by students of
Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches the
best approved methods of constructing engineering works
and the styles of structures suitable for different locali-
ties. The study is quite comprehensive including the
general theory of the arch and application to the voussoir
arch; the theory of earth pressure, and the design of
retaining walls; foundations suitable for structures of
various classes in connection with which the student
becomes acquainted, not only with the methods for ascer-
taining the bearing power of the foundation, but also
the means for constructing deep foundations. The
methods for tunnel construction, sewer construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included in the
course and given by text-book and lectures. The part
pertaining to masonry construction includes a study of
the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the manner of '
testing foundations under water, the crib and open caison
process, the pneumatic process, the theory of masonry
arches and design, arch centers, selection of site for
bridge piers and arrangement of spans, the details of
construction of bridge piers and manner of location,
specifications for masonry, etc. Text-books, Hozue,
Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study of
.the principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts; shape, material and cal-
126
BULLETIN OF THE
culation of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation ;
separate and combined systems compared; pollution of
rivers; chemical precipitation; results and costs of puri-
fication ; general municipal and domestic sanitation ;
inspection of neighboring works. Text-book, Staley and
Pierson.	-
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roofs. This course comprises a study
of the different systems of trussed bridges and roof
trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced when
loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure and
the effect of wind included. Both graphical and analy-
tical methods are used. Besides the various systems of
trussed bridges, which are studied in detail, the plate
girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges, draw
bridges, and roofs of various designs are given equal
attention; the purpose being to familiarize the student
with the different forms and enable him to design and to-
estimate the co'st of construction. Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.] •
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the deter-
mina of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically deter-
mined by the application of the principles of the force
and equilibrium polygons; also the determination of
stresses in bridge trusses with parallel chords and with
broken chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive-
wheel loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof
trusses, graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical and
unsymmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-ribs of
hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams; tern-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	127
perature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied to
continuous girders. This course is supplemented by full
explanations, notes, examples, and problems. Text-book,,
Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]	_
XVI.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrody-
namics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects submitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem with
friction; Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over
weirs, and through tubes; flow in pipes; loss of head in
friction and other losses; flow in conduits, canals, and
rivers; velocities in cross sections; methods of gauging
the flow, measurement of water power, dynamic pressure
of flowing water; designing of waterworks and stand-
pipes ; hydraulic motors and relative merits; discussion
of water wheels of different types, and a study of the
conditions determining- high efficiencies; classification of
turbines, and a complete study and discussion of the
different forms. Text-book, Merriman.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
DRAWING, ARTISTIC*
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough foun-
dation in drawing for those who wish to make Art a
profession, but the courses are so arranged as to be
accessible to other students. The system of teaching,
which is that followed in the best art schools, is intended
to, develop the individuality of each sutdent, so that with
a good understanding of the principles of art he may
interpret nature according to his own temperament.
128
BULLETIN OF THE
The work is done altogether from cast, object and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer
many beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes, and
the classes are taken out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was carefully selected at the National School
of Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
Full Figure. The Diadumenos (British Museum);
the Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically:
the Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michel
Angelo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre) ;
and Houdon’s'Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads. Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus
(Rome, the Capitol) ; Cato (Rome, the Vatican) ; Cicero
(Rome, the Capitol) ; Dante (Florence, Uffizi) ; Agrippa
(Louvre); Venus (Vatican) ; Centurion (Naples) ;
Ariadne (the Capitol) ; Psyche of Naples (Naples);'
Vestal (Vatican) ; Niobe (Vatican) ; the Two Daughters
of Niobe (Florence).
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and
architectural ornaments, taken from monuments of
antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and of
elements of the human figure (hands, feet, etc.) from
the antique, and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(a)	Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geo-
metrical, such as moldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc. Sketch-
ing from simple objects.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	129
(Z?) Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves and flowers.
(c)	Drawing, from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, vornices, etc. Lectures on per-
spective, direction of the principal lines in relation to
the horizon. Elementary notions of the five orders of
architecture.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure: hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a)	Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape. Ap-
plications of perspective.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occa-
sional studies of the head from the living model. Sketch-
ine; from the costumed model. Still life in water colors.
History of Art.
III.
Life Class. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science Hall.
Still life painting in water colors and oil. Landscape
painting. Drawing for illustration.
IV.
Sketch Class. One hour a week. The students
have themselves an organization, “The Crayon Club/'
the object of which is to sketch college scenes and to do
illustrative work; these sketches are brought into class
and criticised.
130
BULLETIN OF THE
V.
Modelling. One entire week in the spring terms of
the Sophomore, Junior and Senior years in Architecture
is devoted to modelling in clay. The objects modelled
are architectural forms, copied from the cast or made
from the student’s drawings of his own work, as his
progress and ability may warrant.
VI.
Class of Decorative Design. The object of this
department is to prepare students for professional work
in decorative designings of all kinds. They will take up
the study of historical ornaments and will be taught the
several principles of the arrangement of designs, and
from personal sketches of plants and flowers will be
shown the art of making original designs for wall paper,
book covers, stained glass, carpets, interior decorations,
metal plates, etc. No particular program is given out
as the teaching is purely individual.
DRAWING, MECHANICAL.
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks, of
various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye may
be trained in outline drawing in pencil and pen. Then
follows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice, and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the
use of instruments is taken up. Beginning with the
instruments, attention is given to accurate draughtsman-
ship upon plates, illustrating problems of Civil, Elec-
trical, Mechanical and Architectural Engineering. This
work is continued throughout the courses.
[Two hours of actual time in draining are required for
each credit hour on the schedule.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	131
I.
Freehand. This course consists of sketching' with
pencil and pen from flat copies and models of machine
parts, and freehand lettering. Later in the term, the use
of instruments, section-lining and lettering are taught.
Text-book, Jamison’s Elements.	■
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.	'
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the
principles of projection, methods of shop-drawing,
tinting, tracing, blueprinting, line-shading and the
preparation of working drawings of complete machines.
This course must be preceded by Course I. Text-book,
Jamison’s Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
’	III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates
is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective
and isometric projections. {Students in Architectuie are
required to do advanced work in shades and shadows
and perspective.	.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.	.
Kinematic Drawing. Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involving
the application of kinematics and the computation of
dimensionls.	-
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
132
BULLETIN OF THE
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I.
Text-book, Reed.
'	VI.
Stereotomy. This course comprises a study of the
application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to
the determination of the forms and sizes of the stones
used in the construction of the different classes of arches
and masonry structures. This course is given by lectures
in the drawing room, explaining the construction of
templates, and the use of directing instrument; also
explanations of methods of drawing plans, elevation and
development of oblique arches, wing walls and the like.
A certain number of plates and drawings is required,
illustrating the methods of performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry construction, foundations, dams, piers, abut-
ments, culverts and arches. Text-book, French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from sim-
ple framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of various
designs, — required of' Juniors in Civil Engineering.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings,
—a short general course of bridge designing for Seniors.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Machine Drawing. A continuation of Course I.
_	s.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine drawing
and the elementary principles of mechanical design with
calculation of dimensions and construction of drawings
from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Load’s Machine
Drawing and Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	133
IX.
Freehand. The principles of freehand drawing in
pencil and pen from objects, and later from biological
specimens, plants, animals and microscopical prepara-
tions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Freehand. Advanced drawing from plants and an-
atomical dissections of animals. Illustrations for pub-
lications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XI.	'
Water Color. Drawing in water color from still life
and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.] -
XII.
Rendering in Water Color. The rendering of
architectural drawings, including perspectives,—casting '
of shadows, color treatments of buildings, and handling
of foreground and background.	'
*	[One hour a week for one term.]
XIII.
Pen and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art; fol-
lowed by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
*
I.
Applied Electricity. ■ A course of lectures and
recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on the
general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
134
BULLETIN OE THE
application to practical work, as follows: Setting up
and testing primary and -secondary batteries, systems of
call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire and ,
burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switch
boards and accessories. Experiments with induction
coils, magnets, switches, voltmeters, ammeters, wheat-
stone bridges, galvanometers and other measuring in-
struments. The study of direct current generators and
motors, arc and incandescent lighting systems, street
railway machinery and appliances, electric heating and
forging, electrolytic processes, etc. Text-book, Szvoope3 s
Practical Electricity.
(Students in Architecture spend one term in this course.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Applied Electricity. Lectures and laboratory work
on the construction and testing of switches, magnets,
measuring instruments, induction coils, etc. The cal-
culation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for
lighting and power, the experimental study of alternating
current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling '
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to
special purposes. This course must be preceded by
Course I (Courses I. and I\I. are required in the Short
Program Electrical Engineering ; they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy.)
[Five hours a. week for two terms.]
III.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery. Recitations on the
physical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
135
and reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points,
theory of armature winding, the mathematical theory
of alternating currents, phase relations, modern forms
of single phase and multiphase generators and motors,
design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon's Dynamo
Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason's Alternating
Currents.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Electrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring
buildings for lights and power, testing circuits for in-
sulation and grounds, construction and operation of
storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
characteristic curves of particular machines under dif-
ferent conditions, efficiency tests of motors by absorption
dynamometer methods, alternating current dynamo and
transformer tests, the testing of .storage batteries, and
complete plant efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Designing. The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance, and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location of
circuits for lighting^buildings. Complete drawings of
direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
'	. I.
Readings and Declamations. This course is de-
signed to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis.
Each student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
136
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of
Course I. Each student is required to give three decla-
mations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
III.
Practical Elocution. Exercises in breathing, voice
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation and
emphasis and their application in the reading of selec-
tions. Text-book, Fidton and Trueblood's Practical
Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
, Practical Elocution. Further exercises in breath-
ing, voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and time.
Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on the
principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood's
Practical Elocution.-
[One hour a week for one term.]
»	"V *
Oral Discussions. The application of formal logic
to debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and
a course in logic are required for admission to this course.
Sections are limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Shakesperian Reading. The critical and artistic
reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with
stage action. The students present the play by scenes
before the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for
admission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-
four students. This course alternates with Course VII.
described below.
[One hour a week for one teYm.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME.
137
VII.
Oratory. A study of the great orators of ancient
and modern times. Each student is required to write
and deliver a biographical oration on one of the great
orators. Lectures on methods of public address.
Courses III. and IV. above, and Course I. in English -
are required for admission to this course. Sections are
limited to twenty-fou'r students. This course alternates
with Course VI. described above.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Assembly Work. This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists
of debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptu and drill work in parliamentary law.
[One hour a week for six terms.]
4
ENGLISH
I.
(a)	Prose Forms. Special treatment of Exposition
and Argumentation. Genwg’s Working Principles of
Rhetoric, Part IL Frequent practice in writing essays.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Heydrick’s How to Study Literature, with
practical exercises in analysis of literary forms.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(c)	Literature. Higginson and Boynton’s. In
In this course the student acquires a good knowledge of
the contents of American literature. The biography of
men of letters is also a part of this course.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
138
BULLETIN OF THE
(d)	Lyric Poetry. The technique is carefully laid
down and choice specimens of lyric poetry are read
critically in class. There is much required reading and
writing.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
(a) Prose Forms. Special study of the Novel and
the Short Story. The development of the novel is care-
fully studied, and its kinship with other forms of narra-
tive is pointed out. Frequent practice in writing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&) Literature. The development of English lit-
erature is studied, minute attention being given to great
periods.
*	[One hour a week for two terms.]
(c) The .Sonnet. Technique and analysis of
famous sonnets.
[One hour a week for one term.]
III.
(a) Prose Forms. Intensive study of the Essay
and the Oration. Each student in this course is required
to read the great essays and orations in English litera-
ture. He must produce four essays and two orations
during the term.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&) Literature. Recent English ‘and American
Poetry. This course deals not only with the best work
done in recent volumes of collected verse, but also takes
account of the best fugitive pieces in the magazines.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(c) Didactic Poetry and Satire. This course
involves reading chiefly.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	139^
IV.
(a) The Laws of the Epic and the Drama.
Ker’s treatise on the Epic with required readings in
narrative poetry. Frey tag’s Technique of the Drama,
with supplementary notes.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&) Shakespeare. Reading and Analysis of Plays.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(c). The Leading Poets of the Nineteenth
Century. Analytical study and required reading.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
V.
Graduate Work in English. Students wishing to
do advanced work in English will be provided with
library facilities and led through the usual work for the
degree of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Faculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form or
epoch, or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by professors make up the course.
GEOLOGY
I.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratorv
work. A study of crystallography and the glassification
‘ of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.] -
140
BULLETIN OF THE
II.	'
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assay-
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
III.
Geology. Lectures, recitations, demonstrations. The
study of the g*eneral features of the earth; the material
composing the accessible parts of the earth; the arrange-
ments of the material in rocks; the causes of geological
changes; the history of the earth and the various forms
of life that existed in the different periods of successive
geological ages. Text-book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
GERMAN
I.
Grammar, Bacon. Translation from German into
English of simple prose; translation of English exercises
into German. Reading of short stories and selections
from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]	-
II.
Grammar, Bacon. Translation into German of nar-
rative prose and selections from history. Sight reading
of selections from history.
Hermann and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Bacon. Sight reading of plays, poems and
prose writing. Translation of selections from history
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
141
and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm (Lessing) ; Best known poems,
(Heine); Corsespondence (Schiller-Goethe.)
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK
I.
Lysias. Orations selected. Short history of the
Attic orators.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Epitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., N. Staff el.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Lysias. Orations selected.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St. John Chrysostom. Eutropius.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
Herodotus. Selections. Study of Herodotus’ dialect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Basil. De Frofanis Scriptoribus.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.	'
Herodotus. Selections.
Selection from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Gregory. Machabees.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
142
BULLETIN OF THE
Demosthenes. The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics. Review of the political
situations at Athens and events bearing upon the ora-
tions.
Thucydides. Book I. Greece before the Pelopon-
nesian War. Importance of this war in Greek history.
The speeches will form the subjects for special class
interpretations. Stylistic differences between pure Attic
and archaic will be pointed out.
During this course special attention will be given to
textual and exegetical criticism, practically shown by
passages selected for that purpose. This is done in the
belief that it is the best way to make students appreciate
the notes in school editions of classical authors.
Practical Exercises—Embodying idiomatic expres-
sions of the authors read.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Aeschylus. One play to vary each year. In connec-
tion with it will be discussed the origin of the drama,
the part of the chorus in the early tragedy and the re-
ligious tenets of Aeschylus. The structure of a Greek
tragedy, the iambic trimeter and the lyric meters will be
sufficiently explained so as to be properly appreciated by
the students. Incidentally also the Greek festivals, at
which the plays were staged, and the Dionysiac theater
will be discussed.
Sophocles. Oedipus Tyrannus and Antigone. Digest
of the Theban legends. Religious views of Sophocles
compared with those of Aeschylus.
Elements of Greek Literature. Students shall use
Jebb's Primer of Greek Literature.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
143
VII.
Euripides. One play, to vary each year. Religious
tendencies of Euripides. His style as compared with
that of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Dramatic art, and his
right to the title of “Scenic Philosopher.”
. Aristophanes. On^ play, selected from the follow-
ing list: The Acharnians, the Knights, the Frogs, the
Clouds, the Birds, or the Wasps. In connection with the
■ reading of these plays will be treated the Greek comedy,
—its origin, nature, and aim. Aristophanes, the great
burlesque critic of Athenian life and manners. The
structure of a comedy compared with that of a tragedy.
Practical Exercises in Greek composition.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Pindar. Selected Odes, in connection with which the
public games will be studied. Elective.
Greek Fathers. St. Basil. The Martyr Gordius.
St. John Chrysostom. The Return of Bishop Flavian.
St. Gregory Nazianzen. Funeral Oration of Caesarius.
Elective.
Plato. Apology and Crito. Socrates—his friends
and enemies. Athenian court proceedings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Greek. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Greek language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who- look forward to the
Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work will
be the Greek seminar, devoted to the interpretation of
passages selected for that purpose by the director of the
seminar, and to a critical study of one particular author
or of a group of authors in the same department of Greek
literature; as for instance, Homer, Plato or the orators,
the historians, the dramatists, etc.
144'
BULLETIN OF THE
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of comparative philology, on com-
parative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
For those who desire a broader basis for their lin-
g'uistic studies, an elementary course in Sanskrit will be
offered.	t
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of
the Hellenic world. Readings and examinations on re-
quired texts. This course is given in alternate years
with Course I.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions.
Reading's, and examinations of required texts. This
course is given in alternate years with Course I. (a).
In both courses, the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to’study the same in De CoulangesJ The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
II.
(a) The History of the Middle Ages from the
invasion of the barbarians, and the history of the periods
of the Renaissance and the Reformation of 1603. Read-
ing's, and examinations on required texts.
(Three hours a week for two terms.)
(&) The General History of Europe from the
beginning of the seventeenth century to the present time.
Readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	145
III.
The History of the British Isles to the Revo-
lution in 1689. 'For the narrative Gardiner's Students'
History is used as a text and is supplemented by lectures.
In the study of the development of political institutions .
Feilderis Constitutional History is used. In addition,
students shall make free use of the library in preparing
special topics upon which they shall report orally in class.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY
IV.
(a) American History from Its Beginning to
1763. A large part of the work of this and the following
course consists in the preparation and presentation in
class of special topics by the students. An effort will be
made to train the student in the use of original sources
as well as in the discriminating use of secondary works.
Weekly written tests are given upon the lectures and the
assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) American History from 1763 to the Present
Time. Treatment as in {a} above. Also a book review,
a bibliographical report and a biographical essay by each
studept.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Research Work in History. Facilities are offered
to graduate students who wish to do advanced work in
history leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s degree.
Evidence to begin specializing must be given by candi-
dates who have received their Bachelor’s degree at an-
other College. The work is directed in the seminar and
is supplemented by lectures.
146	~ BULLETIN OF THE
LATIN
I.
Livy. Selections. Study of Livy’s grammar and
style.
Cicero. Epistles selected.
Vergil. Aeneid.
Prose Composition. Frequent practice in writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Livy. Selections.
Cicero. De Senectute and DeAmicitia.
Pliny. Epistles selected.
Prose Composition. Frequent writing of continuous
prose.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
Cicero. De Oratore. Book I.
Horace. Odes and Epodes. Study of metrical sys-
tems ; peculiarities of styles; plan of composition; com-
parison with Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice in
writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Tacitus. Dialogus De Oratoribus.
Horace. Odes and Epodes; or, Satires selected.
See Course HI.
Terence. Phormio. Short history of Greek and
Roman comedy.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice
in writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
147
V.
Livy. Roman History, First Book. In the reading
of the text particular attention is called to the rules of
syntax—roots and derivation of words—and the ancient
history, geology and mythology.
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases
or original. Short fables and stories.
Horace. Epistola ad Pisones translated, analyzed
and criticised from a philological and literary standpoint.
Ancient Literature. Historians and Lyric Poets:
their lives, their works, their genius.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Tacitus. Agricola and Germania. While reading
the text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
Terence. Andria. Sight reading.
Horace. The Literary Epistles.
Weekly practise in written composition, Latin con-
versation and versification.
Ancient Literature. Dramatists of Greece and
Rome compared and discussed.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Quintilian. De Institutione Oratoria, Books Tenth
and Twelfth. Translation. The explanation embraces
a literary criticism of Grecian and Roman orators, and
practical remarks on Latin idioms and the fine arts of
antiquity.
Short orations or dissertations, and practical conver-
sations take place weekly.
Plautus. Captivi. The study of the play gives a
full knowledge of the characters, the plot, the style,’ the
archaic forms and the construction peculiar to the author.
148
BULLETIN OF THE
Ancient Literature. Orators, especially Demos-
thenes and Cicero.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Cicero. De Officiis. Partly sight reading. Besides
the study of the work from a philological standpoint, the
student is made acquainted with the main systems of
Grecian philosophy, and continual reference is made to
Course III. in philosophy.
Oratorical and philosophical compositions alternate
weekly. Latin conversations on general topics.
Lucretius. De Rerum Natura. Select passages.
Synopsis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erro-
neous philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with
the errors of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature. Philosophers, .particularly
Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Latin. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Latin language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who are candidates for
the degree of Master or Doctor. The work will* be
directed in the seminar and be devoted to a critical study
of one particular author or group of authors.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on comparative philology and comparative gram-
mar.	.
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a stridy of the
binomial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	149
chance, variables and limits, series, determinants. Then
follows a thorough study of the general properties and
solution of equations, embracing the subjects of deriva-
tives, transformation, detached coefficients, surd and
imaginary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem; Horner’s method. Text-book, Went-
worth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Geometry. This course includes a study
of the point and right line; conic sections; their equa-
tions and properties; discussion of the general equation
of the second degree containing two variables; different
systems of coordinates; transformation of coordinates;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces of
revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric sur-
faces and supplementary propositions. Text-book, Bailey
and Woods.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Calculus, Differential. This course as also
Courses IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements
of Engineering students. It includes a study of the
methods for the differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic
and exponential, trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric
functions, successive differentiation, and differential co-
efficients ; treatment of implicit and compound functions ;
expansion of functions; indeterminate forms; partial
differential coefficients of the first order and of higher
orders; direction of curvature; radius of curvature;
150
BULLETIN OF THE
envelopes; maxima and minima of functions of one
independent variable, and of several independent vari-
ables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane areas
surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book,Osborne.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus, Integral. Integration of elementary
forms and of rational fractions; integration by rational-
ization and by parts; successive integration; multiple
integrals; definite integrals, limits of integration; double
integration applied to plane areas; rectification of plane
curves;.quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revo-
lution; surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equa-
tion of a curve.. This course is supplemented by numerous
exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for three months.]
V.
Differential Equations. An elementary course for
Eng'ineering students, supplementary to the course of
integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and first deg'ree; equations of the first order, but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equations
with higher orders.. Numerous applications to mechanics
and physics are introduced during the course. Text-
book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Advanced Work. The prescribed courses in pure
mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students required to constitute a class in
any one subject must be at least five.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	151
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith,
Crystal. (IT) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Tod-
hunter, Lock, (c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir,
(d) Theory of Equations, Burnside and Panton.
(c) Advanced Calculus, Beyerly, Todhunter, Williamson.
(/) Advanced Analytic Geometry, Salmon, (g) Analytic
Geometry of Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon,
(h) Quaternions, Hardy with Kelland and Tait as refer-
ence.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
I.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condensers, refrig-
erating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in
detail. During the second term a study of the difficult
types of internal combustion engines is made together
with a general study of casts in operating power plants.
Frequent reference is made to trade catalogues, of which
an abundant supply should be obtained by the student.
Text-book, The Steam Engine, by Holmes.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Materials of Engineering. This course, supple-'
mented by shop work and laboratory work in testing
materials of construction, is designed for the purpose of
acquainting the student with the properties of the ma-
terial he will use in his profession. Tensile and shearing
strength, elasticity and resistance are studied, together
with the effects of strain, intermittent loading and
152
BULLETIN OF THE
impact. The process of manufacture of the most im-
portant materials is taken up, and estimates of the cost
of construction at market prices complete the work.
Text-book, Thurston's Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Steam Engine Design. In this course the forms
and sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions
and advantag-es and adaptation of special forms of engines
for specific work are taken up, giving the student a
thorough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest
researches and contemporary practice may be consulted
in the numerous publications found in the University
Library. During the first term of the Senior year is re-
quired the complete design with working drawings of a
simple non-condensing steam engine for specific purpose.
The second term is given to designing a multiple expan-
sion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine service.
The text-book used is Whitham1 s Steam Engine Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of parts
from considerations of strains, thickness of shells, size
of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of con-
nection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces and life of
boiler, are some of the subjects considered. The method
of determining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface,
heights of chimneys, boiler settings, and materials used
in ' connection are also discussed. Text-book, Steam
Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	153
V.
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining
of the parts to move in these paths. The general theory
is then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative- motion
. of machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys,
speed cones, link work and other aggregate combinations.
Barr’s Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book used.
[Three hours recitation and two hours drawing a week for one
term.]
VI.
Machine Design. This work involves a study of
the form and strength of machine parts as applied in
designing, with computation of dimensions for fastenings,
bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc.
The derivation of rational formulae and the determina-
tion of empirical formulae are included and applied in
designing. The text-books used are Unwin’s Elements
of Machine Design, Low’s Handbook for Mechanical
Engineers and Reed’s Machine Design and' Draining.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Valve Gears. This course includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are
treated in the same way, and in conclusion the student is
made familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text-book.-is
Halsey’s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
154
BULLETIN OF THE
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory. The work taken up in-
cludes a study of the methods of testing the steam engine
under varying running conditions, valve setting, cali-
bration of thermometers, gauges and indicator springs,
use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dynamometers,
Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc. Text-book,
Carpenter's Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Steam Engines and Boilers. A brief course in the
study of boilers and steam engines designed to familiarize
the student with the different types in use and their
respective merits. Only that theory is taken up which
is necessary to the working out of practical problems,
the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission, by Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extending
7	o
over two terms, is given to a general descriptive study
of all the types of gas engines and explosive motors.
The general construction of gas, oil and vapor engines
is studied together with their adaptation to various uses.
Results due to change in ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid; methods of speed regulation
and government and the details of auxiliaries as, pumps,
carburettors, hot tubes, batteries, spark coils and dynamos
are dwelt upon. The text-book used is Gas, Oil and
Pap or Engines, by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
155
XI.
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the ther-
modynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-book,
lectures and drawing board. The major subjects taken
up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due to gas
pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine parts.
Liicke’s Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing a
week for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete working
up from rough castings and forgings of a small type of
gas engine. This is part of the thesis work for students
in the Short Program and requires the complete machin-
ing and assembling of the engine and must be preceded
by Courses XI. and XII.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Laboratory. Indicator practice, com-
mercial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regulation.
Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction, car-
burettors and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed by
the student.
[Two afternons each week for two terms.]
SHOPWORK.
XIV.
(a) Woodwork. Exercises in planing, splicing
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(Z?) Application of Carpentry to pattern making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
156
BULLETIN OF THE
(c) Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(<i) Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping,
tool making, tempering and case hardening.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(^) Benchwork in iron, including surface chip-
ping*, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(f) Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shafting and
milling machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers,
taps, twist drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Thesis. Each candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Engineering must present for graduation a thesis of con-
siderable magnitude which will exhibit his knowledge of
the courses he has followed. It may embrace designing,
experimental investigation or original research in a sub-
ject selected by the student and approved by the pro-
fessor. The major part of the second term, Senior year,
is devoted to this work, and graduation is conditional
upon the knowledge of mechanical engineering displayed
in its preparation.
MICROSCOPY
I.
Microscopy. Lectures and laboratory work. Re-
fraction and dispersion of light and illumination. The
index of refraction in different media. Different shapes
of lenses. Spherical and chromatic aberration. The
selection and - care of a good microscope. The use of

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
157
accessories for advanced work; immersion and adjust-
able objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser,
polarizer, micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-
micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.	'	.
Micro-Chemistry. Laboratory work. The prepara-
tion of micro-chemical reagents and their application in
testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and mount-
ing tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
MUSIC
FIRST YEAR
I.
Violin. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte. Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke and
Mozart. Jugend Album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
HI.
Voice Production. Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breath-control. Articulation. Text-books, Shakespeare
Art of Singing, Part I.; Kofler Art of Breathing; Studies
by Bassini, English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Elementary Theory of
Music. Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
IV.
Organ. Rink Organ School. Eugene Thayer Studies.
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.	.
158
BULLETIN OF THE
SECOND YEAR
I.
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
II.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,
Lecouppy, Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann, Schubert.
HI.
.Voice Production. Advanced breathing exercises.
Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke of the
glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing, Parts
II. and I\II. Studies from Italian operas; French and
English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IV.
Organ. Schneider - Warren Pedal Studies, Easy
sonatas, by Mendelssohn, Merkel^ Rlieinberger. Pre-
ludes fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting.
Canonic Studies by Chadwick.
Harmony. Construction and use of chords. Har-
monization of melodies. Harmonizing from figured bass.
Text-books, Goetschius Tone Relations; Logier’s Har-
mony.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
159
THIRD YEAR
lb.
Violin. Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alward, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelssohn, Dvorak.
lib.
Pianaforte. Grad-us ad Paranassum, Clementi-
Tausig. Das Wohl Temperirte Klawier by Bach. English
and French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Harberbier and
Henselt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven,
Weber, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
IHb.
Voice Production. Study of trill, mordent, grup-
petto, etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb.
Organ. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome,
Whistling, Best, Rheinberger.
Harmony. Counterpoint. Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon,
fugue,
o
FOURTH YEAR
Ic.	.
Violin. Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Burch, Joachim and others.
lie.
Pianoforte. Studies by Tausig and Chopin. So-
natas, concertos and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
160
BULLETIN OF THE
IIIc.
Organ. The greater preludes, fantasies and fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Wider,
Dubois, Guilment and Saint-Saens.
IVc.
Harmony. Composition. Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical application
in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration,
o
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on the viola, flute, piccolo,
cornet, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of
playing in the University Orchestra and the University
Band.
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of musical students open
only to those taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir
and the Glee Club are selected from the members of this
class.
PHARMACY
I.
Elements of Pharmacy. Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various pharmaceutical processes. Text-book,
Remington's Practice of Pharmacy.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy. A laboratory course to
accompany Course I. This course consists of the prac-
o
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
161
tical application of the pharmaceutical processes to the
manufacture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. F. preparations.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy. Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
General Pharmacy. A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint, followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Magistral Pharmacy. Includes the manifold
methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with considera-
tion of incompatibility, posology, and the principles of
elegant pharmacy. Dispensing' and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry. Chiefly assaying,
testing and manufacturing. Determination of melting
and boiling points, and solubilities. Some attention is
given, also, to toilet and commercial preparations with a
a view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
General Pharmacy. Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectroscopic
162	BULLETIN OF THE
estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of manu-
facture. Food analysis.
VIII.
Materia Medica. This work embraces a detailed
consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, thera-
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is given
also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin. They
are studied individually at first, then in classes or groups.
' [Three hours a week for three terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic. This work includes
a study of weights and measures, percentage relation-
ship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alliga-
tion and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.	’
Pharmacognosy. The identification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with special
reference to quality and detection of adulteration. At-
tention is also given to the methods of preventing loss by
improper storage or by the ravages of insects. Important
drugs are studied under the microscope in cross section
and in powder form..
[Three hours a week for one term.]
PHILOSOPHY	.
I.
(a) Physiological Psychology. This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of
consciousness.

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. ‘	163
J*
(&) Experimental and Descriptive Psychology.
The primary laws of consciousness; psycho-physical
methods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive. Lectures three
hours a week for two terms.]
(d)	Laboratory Exercises. Experiments will be
conducted with special reference to their value as aids
to introspection. Sanford’s Manual of Experimental
Psychology, TichenePs Experimental Psychology, Vol. I.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
n.
(a) Elements of Epistemology. A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teach-
ings of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume, Kant
and Spencer.
(This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and Gen-
eral Metaphysics and will be given at the beginning of the year
during the time prescribed for these studies.
(Z?) Logic. Hyslop’s Elements of Logic.
[Two hours each week for two terms.]
(c)	General Metaphysics. Transcendental con-
cepts : their value' in different systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(d)	Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
- [One hour a week for one term.]
(^) Theodicy. The existence of God; His attri-
butes; His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(J) Student Discussions. From time to time
throughout the year students will be required to read
164
BULLETIN OF THE
and discuss papers on various subjects in the field of
philosophic inquiry.
III.
(a) Ethics. The theory of morals, with special
reference to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) Outlines of the History of Philosophy.
Turner's History of Philosophy.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work in
the department of philosophy, leading to the degree of
Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students who
have pursued the courses described above. Candidates
who have made undergraduate studies elsewhere must
give evidence of ability to begin specializing at once.
In the first and second years, research work will be
conducted in the seminar and the psychological labora-
tory. In the last year, students will have the benefit of
frequent consultation with the professors.
PHYSICS
I.
(a)	Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and mag-
netism are presented. The course is intended to meet
the needs of those who desire a general knowledge of the
subject, as well as to lay the foundations for advanced
work. Particular attention is paid to the correct state-
ment of principles, so that in his advanced work the
student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn. Text-
book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
165
(b)	The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which verify and apply prac-
. tically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat- and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the basis
for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to physical
phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy in the
mathematical work and in the statements of the principles
involved. Lectures and recitations. Text-book, Hastings
and Beach.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physical Problems. The application of mathematics
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
time. Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity
. and magnetism. The work is done in the laboratory and
the student is taught Jo depend on his own resources and
to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Special advanced work in
heat, light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism.
Accuracy in observations and in the calculation and
recording of the results is required. Students may m
166
BULLETIN OF THE
specialize here according to the program which they are
following. This course must be preceded by Courses II.
and III.
[Three hours a week for two ‘terms.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a)	This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton's Text-book of
Human Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstrations
required.
(&)	Laboratory work consisting of a selected num-
ber of experiments so arranged as to give the student a
fair insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c)	A limited number of microscopical preparations
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair* knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.
(d)	During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Three recitations and one laboratory period for two terms.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (d) and may select either (£•) or (c).
II.
(o') This course comprises a complete study of
human physiology such as is required of students of
medicine. The lectures, recitations and demonstrations
are based upon Kirke's Handbook of Physiology and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	167
Hall's Text-book of Physiology. The student will have
free access to a copy of The American- Text-book of
Physiology for special reference.
(&) Laboratory work in experimental physiology.
The manual used is Hall's Experimental Physiology, but
the student will have free access to a number of other
similar works.
[Four recitation hours and two laboratory periods
for two terms.] •
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
I.
The Elements of Economics. A general survey of
the subject based upon the study and discussion of
Seager's Introduction to Economics.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Industrial History and the History of Economic
Thought. Studies in the Evolibtion of Industrial Society
by Ely, and in a History of Political Economy by Ingram.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
(a) Money, Credit and Banking, with special
treatment of the monetary experiences of the United
States. The text-book used is Money and Banking by
White.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
~(b) Public Finance. History of finance, expendi-
ture, revenue and debt of States, with special reference
to American experience. Lectures and text.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
168	BULLETIN OF THE
IV.
Distribution. Rent, interest, wages, profits. Special
studies in. land and labor problems and Socialism. The
text-book used is The Distribution of Wealth by Carver.
For readings Labor Problems by Adams and Sumner,
Progress and Poverty by George, Collectivism by Vander-
velde, Contemporary Socialism by Rae, and others.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLITICS
V.
The Elements of Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics, Lilly.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
American Government and Politics. Text, Actual
Government, Hart.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Jurisprudence. A course covering (a) the outlines
of the Science of Law. (b} The elements of Interna-
tional Law. (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman
and Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and examinations
on required texts.
SOCIOLOGY
VIII.
The Elements of Sociology. Text, Elements of
Sociology, Giddings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Political Science. Advanced
courses in economics, politics and sociology are provided
for graduate students who wish to receive the degree of
Master or Doctor.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
169
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal,
special attention will be paid to philosophy.
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses; the essentials
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Reading of three of the following* works: La Tache du
Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La
Main Malheureuse, Guerber; Sans Famille, Malot; Read-
ings from French History, Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Dictations and conversations on practical
topics, and careful reading of five of the following works:
Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche; Roman d'un
Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables Choisies, La
Fontaine; Le Me decin Maigre Lui, Moliere; Le Cid, Cor-
neille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de Chateaubriand;
La Question d’Argent, Dumas; Standard French Authors,
Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study in this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes com-
170
BULLETIN OF THE
position, conversation, history and general view of French
literature; besides a translation and criticism of the best
writers, such as: Caus cries du Lundi, Ste. Beuve; On
Rend V Argent, Coppec; Hemani, Hugo; Meditations,
Lamartine; Athalie, Racine; UAvare, Moliere; Mlle, de
la Seigliere, Sandeau; Les Origines de la France Con-
temporaine, Taine; Expedition de Bonaparte en Egypte,
Thier; Ste. Elisabeth de Hongrie, Montalembert; Historic
de la Litterature Francaise, Duval..
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the same
every year.
SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero,
Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego, and
Iriate.
. [Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.	,
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and nine-
teenth centuries, with composition and the history of the
literature of the period.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries:
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the lit-
erature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Early Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the fifteenth century.	.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
171
ITALIAN
A two-year’ course. The chief work of the courses
is a critical study of Dante’s Divina Cammedia. Readings
from Tasso, Ariosto’s Satires and Manzoni.
PORTUGUESE
-	I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, Wall. Readings:
Perfil do marquez de Pombal, Camillo Castello Branca;
Noveljas Historicas, Pinheiro Chagas; Lendas e narra-
tivas, Herculano; Campo de Hores, Joao de Deus. '
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
S er mo es, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Camoes.
History of Portuguese literature.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
OLD FRENCH
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying
the formation of the French language from the popular
Latin. For this purpose a work like Brachet’s Gram-
maire Historique will be studied. It is under this point
of view that Old French authors will be read, especially
La Chanson de Roland.	.
PROVENCAL
Language and literature, with reading from the works
of the Troubadours.
172
BULLETIN OF THE
ZOOLOGY
I.
This course comprises:
' (a) Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Nicholson's Text-book of Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker's Elementary Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined in
Pratt's Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker's Biology.
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order of
mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch's Elementary
Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for first
term; three recitation hours and three labora-
tory periods for second term.]
IL
This course comprises:
(a)	Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based
upon Hertwigfs Manual of Zoology.
(b)	Laboratory work upon some Invertebrata in
order to complete and supplement the work under (c) in
Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one or two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrata, viz: Fish, frog,
newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used is Pratt's
Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with
reference to The cat as outlined in Davison's Mammalian
Anatomy.
(^) An outline of comparative Embryology of ani-
mals. Text-books, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
174
BULLETIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. MICHAEL MATTHIAS OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
Rev. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Science.
Rev. LEO J. HEISER, C. S. C,
►
Science.
Rev. GEORGE JOSEPH MARR, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. DOMINIC O’MALLEY, C. S. C.,
English.
JOHN BAPTIST DELAUNAY, C. S. C.,
French.
WALTER J. O’DONNELL, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Bro. PHIL NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
175
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography, Typewriting.
Bro. NICHOLAS, C. S. C.,
T elegraphy.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
M athematics.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.
Mathematics.
J.	FRANK HANAN, LL. B.,
Civics.	"
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
* WILLIAM MAHONEY, A. B., LL. B.,
Mathematics.
MICHAEL JOHN SHEA, A.'M.,
English and Latin.
JOHN BAPTIST RENO, A. M, LL. B.,
Latin and History.
G. L. TREVINO, M. E. E. E.,
Spanish.
JACOB YOUNG, B. S. B,
Science.
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S.,
Drawing.
* On leave of absence during the year 1907-08.
176
BULLETIN OF THE
GALLITZIN ALOYSIUS FARABAUGH, A. B.,
LL. B.,
English and History.
ARTHUR FUNK, B. S.,
Chemistry and Physics.
MICHAEL J. BROWN, A. M., LL. M., M. D,
History and Mathematics.
J. ALOYSIUS DWAN, M. E. E. E.,
English and Mathematics.
Bro. NICHOLAS, C. S. C., .
T elegraphy.
DANIEL CORNELIUS DILLON, A. B.,
Latin and English.
WILLIAM E. FARRELL, A. B.,
English and Elocution.
FREDERICK WILLIAM McKINLEY, A. B,
Mathematics.
5 THOMAS ALOYSIUS HEALY,
English, Geography, History. '
JOHN L. TANNER, A. B,
English and Mathematics.
JOHN BARRETT,
Mathematics.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	177
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Prepara-
tory School under the same general government as the
Colleges, but having its own special corps of instructors.
The schedules of studies are arranged to meet the need
of thorough preparation for collegiate work, and embrace
courses which, while giving as wide an education as can
be obtained in the very best High Schools, prepare
students directly for the group of studies they may elect
when entering the Freshman year. Five different pro-
grams of instruction are offered to students, each con-
taining- such special courses as directly meet the needs
of the fifteen college groups, while all embrace common
subjects which are indispensibly necessary in acquiring
a fairly liberal education. The period of instruction
covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Prepara-
tory School are most complete. The laboratories are
extensive and fully supplied with the latest improved
appliances. The classes pursuing any subject are divided
into sections, each containing a limited number of
students. The sections are purposely limited in order
that each student may receive close attention from the
instructor in every recitation and laboratory period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening
of the School in September and embrace the subjects
completed in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pages 33 and 34. The following fees .are
special to' the Preparatory School:
LABORATORY FEES
Science C.—Elementary	Botany...........$2.50
Science D.—Elementary	Zoology.......... 2.50
Science E.—Elementary	Chemistry........ 5.00
Science F.—Elementary	Physics.......... 5.00
178
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Peparatory for the Department of Classics in
the College of Arts and Letters
FIRST TERM.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
Latin	5	A_	Latin	5	A
English	5		English	5	A
History	4	A	History	4	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
Greek	5	A	Greek	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	4	B	History	4	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
Greek	5	B	English	5	B
English	5	C	Greek	5	C
History	4	C	History	4	C
Mathematics	5	E	Science	5	C
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
English	5	D ■	English	5	D
German or			German or		
French	5	A	French	5	A
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
’UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	179
Studies Preparatory for the Department of Letters and
the Department of History and Economics in
the College of Arts and Letters.
FIRST YEAR.
’subjects FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	4	A	History	.	4	A '
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND TERM.
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
French or			French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	4	B	History	4	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR.
Latin	5	c	Latin	5	c
French or			French or		
German	5	B	German	5	B
English	4	C	English	5	C
History	5	c	History	4	C
Mathematics	b	E	"Mathematics	5	C
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin	> 5	D	Latin	5	D
French or			French or		
German	4	C	German	4	C
English	5	D	English	5	.	D
German or	5		German or		
French *		A	French *	5	A
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science 1	5	F
* Students who begin French A in the second year must be-
gin German A in the fourth year.

180
BULLETIN OF THE
Studies Preparatory for the College of Science
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5'	B
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR.					
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History	4	A	History	4	A
Science	5	B	Science	5	C '
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English	5	4 c	English	5	e c
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	H
German	5	A »	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	4	B	History	4	B
FOURTH YEAR.
English	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	-	5	F	Science	5	F
History	4	C	History	4	C
Drawing	3	A	Drawing	3	B
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
181
Studies Preparatory for the Colleges of Engineering
and Architecture
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS FIRST TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS SECOND TERM	Hrs. a Week	COURSE
"English	5	A	English	5	A
- Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
•*’ History	4	A	History	4	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
' ^German	5	A	German	5	A
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
SECOND YEAR.					
- English	5	B	English	5	B
- Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History	4	B	History	4	B
>	Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German	5	B	German	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English	5	. C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
0	' History	4	C	History	4	C
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
German	4	C	German	4	C
		FOURTH YEAR.			
'' English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	G	Mathematics	5	]-[
rawing	3	A	Drawing	3	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
* French or Spanish may be substituted for German.
For Architecture Mechanical Drawing I, II, (see p. 131),
are required.
182
BULLETIN OF THE
PREPARATORY COURSES
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended to
give the student some knowledge of the general prin-
ciples of government and of the American Constitution.
The subject begins by defining government; then is con-
sidered the object and necessity of government; origin
of civil society; the principle of suffrage; different forms
of government defined and compared; theories of repre-
sentation. These topics necessarily are treated briefly,
as the principal part of the course consists of a study of
the Colonial government, the Articles of Confederation
and their defects, the formation of the Constitution and
its adoption. The study further comprises a critical
analysis of each article and section of the American
Constitution, thus enabling the student to acquire a clear
conception of the division of powers of the National
Government and the duties and responsibilities of each
department. Text-book, Government by State and
Nation, by James and Sanford.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
DRAWING
' A.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
183
B:
Advanced work in sketching from objects such as the
plaster cast of flowers and suitable ornaments which
afford the study of light and shade.
[Three hours a week for one term.] .
ENGLISH
A.
(a)	Meiklejohn's Art of Writing English, with
daily exercises in class. Two themes a week. •
(b)	The elements of versification. Scansion, one
hour a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: Robinson Crusoe, *Evange-
line, Treasure Island, Snow-Bound, *The Sketch Book,
*The Vision of Sir Launfal, Poe's Tales, Poe's Poems,
* Julius Caesar, *The Merchant of Venice.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
(a)	Hill's Principles of Rhetoric, Part I., with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The simpler verse forms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: Ivanhoe, *The Lady of the
Lake, *The Vicar of Wakefield, *The Ancient Mariner,
The Courtship of Miles Standish, *Silas Marner, *The
Princess, *Macbeth, *As You Like It.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
184	'BULLETIN OF THE
c.
i
(c) Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part II., with
daily exercises in class. Weekly theme first term ; fort-
nightly essay second term.
(Z?) Verse forms continued. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(r) Required reading: *Sir Roger de Coverly,
^Macaulay’s Essay on Addison, *The Golden Treasury
of English Lyrics, *M acaulay’s Essay on Milton,
* Milt on’s Minor Poems, *A Midsummer Night’s Dream,
^Burke’s Speech on the Conciliation of America,
^Webster’s Bunker Hill Oration, ^Lincoln’s Gettysburg
Oration, *King Lear.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
(a) Genung’s The Working Principles of Rhetoric,
Part I., with daily exercises in class. Fortnightly essay
first term; monthly essay second term.
(&) Verse forms concluded. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c) Required reading: The Flouse of the Seven
Gables, *The Idylls of the King, Selections from Para-
dise Lost, Cary’s Dante, * Gate’s Selections from Newman,
*The Dream of Gerontius, Pope’s Homer, *The Tempest,
Aubrey de Vere’s Poems, and *Hamlet.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	185
FRENCH
A.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns,
the conjugation of regular and the common irregular
verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Frazer and SquaiPs Grammar. Reading three of the
following: La Tache du Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas
de Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheureuse, Guerber;
Sans Famille, Malot; Supers3 Readings from French
History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Frazer and Squaifs Grammar. Dictations
and conversations are added on practical topics, and
careful translation made of five of the following works:
Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche; Roman dJun Jeune
Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables choisies, La Fontaine;
Le Me decin Mature Lui. Moliere; Le Cid. Corneille;
Esther, Racine'; Pages oubliees de Chateaubriand; La
Question d3 Argent, Dimas; Standard French Authors,
Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes
composition, conversation, history and general view of
French literature. Besides a reading and criticism of
the best writers, such as: Causeries du Lundi, Ste.
186
BULLETIN OF THE
Benue; On Rend VArgent, Coppee; Hemani, Hugo;.
Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine; L’Avare,
Moliere; Mlle, de la Siegliere, Sandeau; Les Origines
de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedition de
Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie,
Montalembert; Historic de la Litterature Francaise,
Duval.	•
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
GREEK
Grammar. Etymology, Goodell.
Lessons for Beginners, Morrison and Goodell.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part I., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Etymology reviewed and Syntax begun.
Goodell.
Xenophon. Anabasis, Four Books, Smith. .
Composition. Based on the Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part II., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.	'
Grammar. Completed.
Xenophon. Selections from the Memorabilia.
Prose Composition.
Homer, Iliad, Six Books, Seymour.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part III., Stoffel.
■	[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	187
GERMAN
. Grammar, Bacon. Translations from German into
English of simple prose; translation of English exercises
into German. Reading of short stories and selections
from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar, Bacon. Translation into German of nar-
rative prose and selections from history.
Hermann and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
c.
Grammar, Bacon. Sight reading of plays, poems and
prose writings. Translation of selections from history
and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; Best known poems
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
Ancient History. Meyers' Ancient History. The
Eastern Nations. The History of Greece and of the
Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The Estab-
lishment of the Empire, and the rise of Christianity.
The Roman-German, or Transition Age.
[Four hours a week for one. year.]
188
BULLETIN OF THE
B.
Medieval History. Meyers3 Medieval History.
The Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mohammedanism
and the Saracean Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire.
The Age of Revival. The Empire and the Papacy. The
Great Schism and the rise of the Nations of Modern
Europe.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
C.
Modern History. Fisher's Outlines of History.
The Renaissance. The Age of Discovery. The Protes-
tant Reformation. The Power of Spain. The Strifes of
France with Spain and Germany. The Age of Louis
XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish and Aus-
trian Successions. The Empire of England. The
American Revolution. The French Revolution and the
Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the Spirit of
Nationality. The formation of Germany and Italy.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
LATIN
A.
Grammar. Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises. Rudiments of Latin, Reynolds.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar. Books I.—IV.
Prose Composition. Based on Caesar.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	189
Nepos. Selected Lives.
Sallust. Catiline.
Cicero. Orations I.—III., against Catiline.
Prose Composition. Based on authors read.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar. Complete review.
Cicero. Three orations including Pro Lege Manilla.
Qvtd. Metamorphoses.
Vergil. Aeneid, six books. The explanations cover
peculiarity of syntax, figures, mythology.
Prosody. Study of hexameter verse.
Prose Composition. Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
MATHEMATICS
A.
Algebra. This course for beginners in Algebra in-
cludes a study of the primary fundamental principles nec-
essary to the courses which follow. The subjects dwelt
upon in particular are .factoring, highest common factor
and least common multiple, which are afterwards ap-
plied in their relation to Fractions and the reduction
of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible, concrete
examples of their applications to kindred scientific sub-
jects are applied by the teacher. Text-book Wentworth's
School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Algebra. In this course the study of equations is
begun and continued through equations of the first
190
BULLETIN OF THE
degree. Fractional equations, systems of simultaneous
equations, involution, radicals and exponents complete
the course, which is supplemented wherever possible
with problems of practical application. Text-book,
Wentworth’s School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Algebra. This course begins with quadratic equa-
tions, pure and affected, followed by systems of simul-
taneous quadratic equations and those forms of radical
equations of higher degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and proportion, indetermi-
nate equations, surds, imaginaries, inequalities, the pro-
gressions and the binomial theorem finish the work in
this course. As in the preceding courses, special stress
is placed upon the application of the theory to such
examples as will show its‘application to elementary scien-
tific subjects. Text-book, Wentworth’s College Algebra.
[Five hours a’ week for one term.]
D.
Geometry. This subject is completed as far as the-
end of plane geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original proposi-
tions. The habit of independent thinking is cultivated
to some extent by the solution of special problems of
concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation of the
process studied to practical examples. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
Geometry. The study of solid geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	191
the preceding term. Planes, solid angles, polyhedrons,
the cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied in detail
and the solution of original exercises and propositions of
application is made a feature of the course. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Algebra and Geometry. This course, which con-
tinues through one scholastic year, is designed especially
for those students who wish to take up the study of
Engineering. As this necessitates a thorough ground
work in mathematics, the first half of the year is given
to a review of algebra and geometry, three hours and
two hours a week respectively. The most important
theorems and subjects are again studied and a more
comprehensive view of the subject is attained in the
generalizing- of many theorems and extending the range
of others. Text-book, Benitz.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
G.
Algebra and Geometry. The work of this term
is entirely given up to' an elementary exposition of the
application of mathematics to scientific problems and to
analysis. In lectures and class work actual problems
representing existing and practical conditions are taken
up, and the derivation of approximate formulae and an
elementary study of curves derived from experiment are
included. Text-book, Benitz.	’
[Five hours a week for one term.]
H.
Trigonometry. A half year is given to this subject
which includes both plane and spherical trigonmetry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
192	BULLETIN OF THE ’
elementary text-books. Special attention is given to
goniometry on account of its application to calculus,
and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly sup-
plied. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
SCIENCE
A.
Physical Geography. An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the
world about him.. The various types of plant and animal
life together with topographical and climatic conditions
will be considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology. Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of the
bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene of.
muscles. The digestive, circulator}^ and excretory sys-
tems demonstrated by models and charts. The anatomy
and structure of the nervous system and simple experi-
ments on the same. Text-book, Martin's Human Body.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Botany. This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and
seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant life
and their classification is also given. Text-book, Bastin's
Elements of Botany.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
193
D.
Zoology. This course includes an introduction to the
subject with studies of representative forms and their
classification in the different groups of the animal king-
dom. The subject is taught by recitations and labora-
tory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rett ger.
[Five hours a' week for one term.]
.	E.
(a) Chemistry.—An introductory course of ex-
perimental lectures on familiar subjects such as water,
the air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena of
chemistry.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
(&) Experimental Chemistry. A laboratory
course to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises
to be performed by each student, and having as their
main object the cultivation of the student’s powers of
observation and faculty of inductive reasoning. These
exercises comprise a study of the principal metallic ele-
ments, including their preparation, properties and more
familiar compounds. The directions for each experi-
ment are made as brief as possible; the observation of
facts and the drawing of correct conclusions therefrom
being left, so far as the nature of the experiment will
permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
Physics. Instruction in elementary physics is given
by lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and mag-
194
BULLETIN OF THE
netism are presented. The course is intended to meet
the needs of those who desire a general knowledge of
the subject, as well as to lay the foundation for advanced
work. Particular attention is paid to the correct state-
ment of principles so that in his advanced work the stu-
dent will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
Laboratory Work of this course consists of a series
of 70 experiments which verify and apply practically the
fundamental principles of physics. The student also re-
ceives instruction in the use and careful handling of
apparatus, x accurate observation, and correct deduction
of results. Neat and concise reports of all experiments
are kept by each student and form the basis for the
grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined above
are equivalent to those of a High School. There is
also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are
taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—the stu-
dents having every opportunity for preparing themselves
as rapidly as possible for High School work.
COMMERCIAL SCHOOL
e
196	BULLETIN OF THE
THE COMMERCIAL SCHOOL
When the character and needs of the country are con-
sidered, courses in business will appear the most practi-
cal, and among the most important that an educational
institution can offer.
Students, therefore, who have not the time or the
means to take a complete college course in the classics or
the sciences, will do well to enroll themselves in the Com-
mercial School. No plan of study is more injudicious
than a haphazard selection of such studies as an inex-
perienced young man may fancy. The training resulting
from a fixed program of studies is of the' utmost benefit
to the student.
The commercial studies at Notre Dame have always
received the most careful attention from the officers and
from the Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims to
give the students of this School a more complete business
training than can be obtained in any purely commercial
school. The authorities require that students taking
this program—which may be completed in one year—
should be at least 16 years of age and should have com-
pleted to years of a regular High School course or its
equivalent. Special arrangements, however, will be
made for young men who have had no High School
training, but who may have had practical business or
office experience. Should a student desire to pursue
any other studies in which he may be interested and for
which he has time, he will have liberty to do so. A
diploma is issued to students completing all the courses
of the program satisfactorily.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
197
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
FIRST TERM.
I.
Arithmetic. Percentage; ratio and proportion; as
far as involution and evolution. Normal Union Arith-
metic, Brooks. Recitations daily.
II.	’
• Bookkeeping. Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions ; initiatory sets by Double Entry; retailing by Dou-
ble Entry; special practice in writing business paper and
business forms. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams
and Rogers. Recitations daily.
III.
English. Study of the theory of English composi-
tion; frequent exercises in theme writing. The princi-
ples of rhetoric. Recitations daily.
.	iv.
* Phonography. Recitations daily.
'	V.
Typewriting. Three hours a week.
VI.
Penmanship.
^Phonography is free to commercial students in the final year of
their program. For typewriting fees see page 34.
198	BULLETIN OF THE
SECOND TERM.
Bookkeeping. Single Entry; changing Single to
Double Entry; retailing; wholesaling; shipping and
commission; jobbing; manufacturing; installment and
state agencies; joint stock companies; banking; railroad-
ing. Nezu Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and Rogers.
Four hours a week.
II.
Arithmetic. Percentage, ratio and proportion (re-
viewed) ; involution and evolution; arithmetical and
geometrical series; higher percentage; mensuration;
arithmetical analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks. Rec-
itations four hours a week.
III.	~
Business Practice and Office Work. Four hours
a week.
IV.
Business Correspondence. Two hours a week.
A
Commercial Law. General principles of contracts;
agency; partnership; corporations; guaranty; sale of
goods; negotiable paper. Huff cut. Two hours a week.
VI.
Pfionography. Speed class. Recitations daily.
VII.
Typewriting. Speed class. Daily.
VIII.
Penmanship,
A
SCHOOL OF MINIMS
200
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
For the care and training of boys under the age of
thirteen years, there has been established a department
to which the most scrupulous attention has always been
paid by the authorities of the University—it is known as
the School for Minims.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Latin, French and German and Algebra. Vocal Music
and Drawing involve no extra charge. The pupils of
this department are taught by Sisters of Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE.
The following is the order of the day: Rising at 6:30
a. m., toilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which there is
a short time given to exercise on the campus; eight,
study; Half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes and study ;
a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by
recreation; half-past one, classes and study; three, recre-
ation and luncheon; half-past four, classes and study; a
quarter-past six, toilet; half-past six, supper and recrea-
tion ; half-past eight, retiring. From this it may be seen
that while the Minims devote almost seven hours a day
to study, they are never more than two hours in succes-
sion in the class-room. The recreation and exercise in
the fresh air after each period of study, unbend the mind
and prepare the boys to return to their classes refreshed
and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and the
study-hall. The presence, however, of the prefect is far
from being a restraint on the amusement of the boys;
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	201
for while it is the duty of the prefects to insist that their
young charges shall always keep within the limits of the
strictest propriety, they at the same time take part in
all sports, organize games, and do everything in their
power to foster the love for exercise. The playground
is a broad, level, eight-acre field, well supplied with turn-
ing poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all
other necessary gymnastic apparatus. That the boys
make good use of them can be seen from their healthy,
happy appearance, which invariably attracts the notice
of visitors. Connected with the playground is a brick
play-hall, one-hundred and sixty feet long and heated
by steam.- In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold
weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend
the clothing j see to all the needs and to the comfort and
convenience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few
days. Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care
is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the
clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES.
There are two societies in the Minim Department, that
of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for
its object to supply servers for the Church services, and
the Sorin Association, which has been established with a
view to give the pupils a start, as early as possible, in
elocution. The society is presided over by one of the
professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
‘ talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are
held once a week, after school hours. These meetings
are a source of pleasure as well as of profit. The mem-
bers prepare orignal compositions, deliver declamations,
are trained to debate, etc. Only the best behaved and
more advanced in studies are admitted to’ membership.
202
BULLETIN OF THE
To encourage this young- literary society, a gold medal
for elocution is annually awarded at Commencement to
the most deserving member.
GENERAL REMARKS.
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to students more
advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to pun-
ishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern by kind-
ness and gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense
of honor. The names of all whose conduct and applica-
tion to studies are satisfactory appear on the Roll of
Honor and on the Roll of Class Honors. To find his
name mentioned in these rolls, is found to be as great a
reward for the deserving pupil, as its non-appearance is a
punishment for the undeserving.
Then, too, there are gold medals awarded at the end
of two full years to those whose deportment has been
unexceptionable during that period. As this fact is made
known to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he
generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view
to receiving an Honor. The greatest care is taken to
form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to in-
culcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort is
made to foster respect and affection for parents, to whom
they are expected to write at least once a Aveek.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Minims
is their complete separation from the older students. A
commodious building, known as Et. Edward’s Hall, af-
fording ample accommodations for over one hundred
pupils, is devoted to their use. It is four stories in height,
one-hundred and fifty feet long*, and forty-five feet
wide, heated by steam, supplied throughout with the
Edison incandescent electric light, and provided with hot
and cold water. The ceiling in the study-hall, class-rooms
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
203
and sleeping apartments is fifteen feet high. The
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant
light and ventilation. • The study-hall commands a
charming view from each of its eleven large windows.
It is tastefully decorated with statuary, pictures, plants,
etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims derive from study-
ing in this bright, cheerful hall, their tastes are cultured
by coming into contact with objects so refining. Front-
ing the building is a handsome park, which, with its
fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not a little to the
beauty of St. Edward's Hall, as well as to the happiness
of its pupils.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy par-
ents and others who frequently write for more detailed
information, will show that, while the Minims have
every advantage to aid them in acquiring a foundation
for future study, they have a home, where they enjoy
the same ease and freedom that they would enjoy under
the care of their mothers. For further information re-
garding the School for Minims apply for a special cata-
logue.	°
EXPENSES.
(For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.)
Matriculation Fee (first year only).........$ 10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bed-
ding, etc., per session of nearly ten months. 250.00
Payable in advance as follows:
First Payment,—On Entrance in September,
Matriculation Fee ...........................$ 10.00
Board and Tuition........................... 150.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery‘Account.......	5.00
Gymnasium ..................................   2.50
Lecture and Concert Course Ticket.....;....... 1.00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second Payment,—On January 15 :
Balance on Board and Tuition................$100.00
204
BULLETIN OF THE
The charge (per session of nearly ten months) for
lessons on piano, violin, guitar or mandolin, and the use
of the instrument, is fixed at $50.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been
rendered.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of
underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pairs of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits
of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap,
and a hand mirror. This direction concerning clothing is
a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above sup-
plies can be procured through the Students’ Office at the
University.
List of Students
206
BULLETIN OF THE
LIST OF STUDENTS.
Matriculating during the Scholastic Year from
September, 1907 to June, 1908.
Aguirre, Andreas Baca...............Vera Cruz,
Ahern, John Henry........................South
Alarcon, Julio.........................Morelos,
Aldrete, George...................Guadalaj ara,
Mexico
Dakota
Mexico
Mexico
Allen, Walter Hopkins......................................Illinois
Amadeus, B..............................Indiana
Aman, Francis George.........................Indiana
Anderson, Clarence J.........................Indiana
Anderson, Robert Emmet......................... Ohio
Ansoategui, Santiago Herman.. .Mayaguez, Puerto Rico
Armstrong, Henry Joseph.......................Illinois
Armstrong, Philip John........................Illinois
Arnold, Arthur................................Illinois
Arnold, Wm. Simpson.......................Massachusetts
Arrington, Norman Joy..........................Illinois
Attley, George Emmett..........................Illinois
Arvey, Edmond James...........................Wisconsin
Ayala, Joaquin....................Guadalajara,	Mexico
Ayres, Carl Stanford........................  Indiana
Babbitt, Bertrand Henry...........................Arizona
Babbitt, Edwin David..............................Arizona
Baldwin, Jack Frank.........................New Mexico
Bannon, Bernard Antonius.....................Pennsylvania
Bannon, John Mackin..........................Pennsylvania
Baradat, Enrique Andreas.............................Cuba
Barclay, Francis Arthur..........................Illinois
Barrenquy, Pedro..........................Chinal, Mexico
Barsaloux, Paul	Keeley.........................Illinois
Bates, Chester...................................Illinois
Bates, Paul......................................Illinois
Batlle, Joaquin Louis...................Barcelona, Spain
Bayle, Wm............................................Ohio
Beane, George Alfred.............................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
207
Becker, John Harold........
Becklenberg, Harold Hubert
Becklenberg, John Love......
Beckman, John Joseph........
Beebe, Roy John.............
Beersum, Gerald.............
Beeson, Paul Allen..........
Bell, John William..........
Bennett, Joseph Alphonsus..
Benoist, Charles Louis......
Bensberg, Carl Francis......
Bensberg, Wm. Joseph........
Bentley, Conrad Michael...,
Bentley, Walter.............
Benz, John Joseph...........
Benz, Othmar John...........
Berkeley, Carroll Allen.....
Berry, Spire Bernard........
Berteling, John Francis....
Binz, Frank.................
Biro, Joseph Campo..........
Bishop, Harold Nowack....
Biter, Francis Edward.......
Blackman, Champ Odun....
Blanco, Enrique Thomas....
Bogy, Bernard Pratte........
Bolin, Henry Joseph.........
Bonham, Edwin Douglas...
Boulton, John Allan.........
Bowen, Francis Reese........
Bower, Jules Franklin.......
Bowles, John Heuse..........
Bowles, Raymond Harry...
Boyd, Alfred James..........
Boyle, Joseph Justin........
Bracken, Robert L...........
Brady, William Henry........
Breen, Maurice John.........
Brengartner, Elmer Joseph.
Brengartner, Ralph James.
Brennan, Raymond..........
Brislin, John Jerome.......
Brogan, John Francis.......
Broussard, Clyde Eloi......
Brown, Michael Joseph......
............Illinois
............Illinois
............Illinois
.............Indiana
.............Indiana
.............Indiana
............Michigan
............Illinois
................Ohio
............Missouri
........Missouri
........Missouri
........,. Illinois
........Illinois
........Pennsylvania
........Pennsylvania
........Missouri
............Oklahoma
.............Indiana
............Illinois
............New	York
............New	York
.........Pennsylvania
.........Illinois
San Juan, Puerto Rico
.........Missouri
.........Wyoming
.........New....York
.........Ohio
.........Colorado
.........Illinois
.........Illinois
.........Colorado
.....New........York
.....Iowa
.....Illinois
.....New........York
.....Iowa
............Ohio
.....Ohio
.....New........York
.....Pennsylvania
.....Oregon
.....Texas
.....Indiana

208
BULLETIN OF THE
Bryson, George Devereux..........................Illinois
Bryson, Ralph Oxley..............................Illinois
Bucher, Edmund Victor.............................Indiana
Buczkowski, John Stanislaus.......................Indiana
Burdick, Harry Anthony............................\	. .Ohio
Burke, Cornelius James............................Indiana
Burke, John Dennis...............................Michigan
Burke, William Joseph............................Illinois
Burns, Charles Hugh.................................Texas
Burns, Francis.......................................Ohio
Burtt, Fidelis Norton............................Illinois
Burtt, Millard Marsh.............................Illinois
Butler, Francis .................................Illinois
Butler, John Patrick..............................Indiana
Byrne, Paul Ryan................................New	York
Caceres, Federico.............
Cagney, Harry Louis...........
Cagney, John Albert...........
Cagney, LeRoy.................
Cagney, Walter................
Cahill, Edward................
Cahill, James Lee.............
Cain, Ronald Charles..........
Call, Havens Howe.............
Callahan, Thomas Wood.
Callicrate, Dominic Leo..
Cantwell, Francis Xavier.
Cantwell, Robert Emmett.
Cantwell, Thomas Barry..
Caparo, Angel ................
Cardenas, Jose Antonio...
Carey, William Arthur....
Carmody, Elmer................
Carr, Harry Wm................
Carroll, Frederick William
Carroll, George Henry....
Carroll, Homer Peter..........
Carroll, Hugh.................
Carroll, William Manson..
Cartwright, Marcus............
Carville, Edward Peter...
Caso, Fernando................
■Caso, Vicente................
Castaneda, Ramon..............
Peru, South America
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Indiana
.....Indiana
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
Peru, South America
.Peru, South America
.....Wisconsin
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Wisconsin
.....Ohio
.....Tennessee
..........Nevada
.Manati, Puerto Rico
.....Pueblo, Mexico
.... Pachuca, Mexico
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	209
Centlivre, Carl Louis......................'......Indiana
Christie, Arthur Janies.........'................Illinois
Clark, Malachy Daniel...........................Minnesota
Clasgens, Herbert William........................Illinois
Cleary, Edward Patrick...........................Illinois
Cleary, Leo John.................................Illinois
Cleary, Thomas Frederick.........................Illinois
Clement, B........................................Indiana
Clifford, John William..........................Wisconsin
Clinton, Manus Paul..........................Pennsylvania
Coad, Marcus Matthew.............................Nebraska
Cody, William Francis...........................Kentucky
Coffey, Raymond Thomas................................Iowa
Coggeshall, John.......................'........Kentucky
Collazo, Ramon.......................Manati, Puerto Rico
Collentine, Richard Joseph......................Wisconsin
Collier, Francis Thomas....................Quebec,	Canada
Collins, Thomas Daniel............................Illinois
Comerford, Dean William...................Illinois
Comerford, George Louis......................Illinois
Comerford, John Martin.......................Illinois
Concha, Manuel Francisco..........Peru, South America
Conlin, Wm. Thomas...........................Minnesota
Connolly, Edward Joseph.......................Illinois
Connolly, Raymond Aloysius....................Illinois
Conway, Daniel David.........................New York
Cooke, Arthur John...........................New York
Cooley, Willard Dean..............................Iowa
Coppinger, Lucian Biggins.....................Illinois
Corbett, James Joseph.........................Illinois
Corbett, John Kiley..........................  Indiana
Corcoran, Wm. Joseph..........................Missouri
Corn, Baizel Jay...............................Indiana
Cortazar, Enrique...................Chihuahua,	Mexico
Cortazar, Julio.....................Chihuahua,	Mexico
Cotter, William Edward........................Illinois
Courcier, John Laurence.............;.............Ohio
Couttolenc, Luis........................Pueblo,	Mexico
Cowie, George................................Wisconsin
Cowie, Lloyd Rice............................Wisconsin
Cox, Louis Charles.............................Alabama
Coyne, Martin John........................Pennsylvania
Crawford, Peter Michael.......................New	York
Crepeau, Elton Benjamin........................Indiana
Cripe, Clarence Cyril..........................Indiana
210	BULLETIN OF THE
Cull, Francis Xavier............................Ohio
Curren, Wm. Julius... .*.................New Mexico
Curtis, Harry Albert...................Massachusetts
Czyzewski, Stephen ..........................Indiana
Daily, Gerald Marcellus......................Indiana
Daly, Albert Maxwell.........................Indiana
Daly, James Wm..............................New	York
Dana, Frederick Charles...................Wisconsin
Daniels, Bernard Elmer........................Illinois
Dant, John Procter........................Kentucky
Darr, Charles Leo...............................Ohio
Darst, Wm. James............................Illinois
Davila, Manuel...................Manati,	Puerto Rico
Davis, Howard Clayton........................Indiana
Davis, Robert Agnew.........................Michigan
Davison, McIntosh...........................Illinois
Dawson, Charles Edward.......................Indiana
Dean, John Richmond.........................Illinois
Decker, Marshall Joseph.....................Illinois
Deckman, George . ..............................Ohio
De Clerq, Arthur Ernest.....................Michigan
Dee, Samuel Allerton........................Illinois
Deery, James Edward..........................Indiana
Degnan, Walter John......'......................Ohio
Delana, Edward Keenan.......................Illinois
Deline, Alfred Dewey........................Michigan
De Lone, Eugene Martin..................Pennsylvania
De Lone, Harry Martin...................Pennsylvania
Del Valle, Jose........................ Havana,	Cuba
Derrick, Francis........................Pennsylvania
Devers, John Aloysius...................Pennsylvania
Devine, James Joseph........................New	York
Devine, John Francis........................Illinois
Devitt, Joseph Ryan.............................Ohio
Diener, John Vernon........................Wisconsin
Dillon, Daniel Cornelius................Pennsylvania
Dillon, Edward Joseph...................Pennsylvania
Dillon, Francis Joseph..................Pennsylvania
Ditton, James Hawkins........................Indiana
Dillon, Lee Summerville.....................Colorado
Dillon, Malcolm White.......................Colorado
Dillon, Stephen Vincent.................Pennsylvania
Dionne, Louis Albert.......................Wisconsin
Dixon, Carmo Del................................Ohio
•i
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
211
Dixon, Joseph Thomas..........
Dixon, Maurice Edwin..........
D’Landero, Pedro Antonio..
Dodge, Harry Daniel...........
Dolan, Samuel Michael.........
Dolan, William Thomas.........
Dominguez, Mario Seferino..
Donahue, Ferol John...........
Donahue, Joseph Nicholas..,
Donahue, Wm. Matthew....
Donovan, Cornelius James...
Donovan, Paul Joseph..........
Donovan, Rupert Donnelly..
Doorley, Francis Jerome....
Dougherty, Raymond Martin
Downing, Wm. Pointelle....
Doyle, Bernard Ephraim........
Duarte, Adolfo Manuel.........
Dubail, Donald Edward.........
Dubuc, John Arthur............
Duffey, John Francis..........
Duffy, Daniel Franklin?.......
Duffy, Henry Aloysius.........
Duffy, Mark Matthew...........
Duffy, Wm. Ambrose............
Dugan, William Francis........
Dunbar, Thomas Kennedy...
Duncan, Walter James..........
Duque, Carlos Alfonso.........
Dwyer, Peter Gregory..........
Dwyer, Hurlburt...............
....Pennsylvania
.........Indiana
.........Pachuca,	Mexico
...........Iowa'
..................Oregon
................Missouri
......Vera Cruz, Mexico
......Indiana
.................Indiana
.................Indiana
...........Massachusetts
.Illinois
................Illinois
....................Ohio
....................Iowa
................Illinois
................Illinois
Columbia, South America
.................Indiana
.........Connecticut
.........Wisconsin
.........•........Illinois
................Illinois
...............Wisconsin
.Pennsylvania
.......Minnesota
..................Illinois
.Illinois
.... Peru, South America
.■.....New	York
...............New	York
£
Eckert, John Joseph..........................Germany
Edwards, Howard ...'.........................Indiana
Eligius, B.....................................Indiana
Elliott, Cecil Ray...........................Tennessee
Ely, John Wilfred.........................Pennsylvania
Engler, Nicholas..................................Ohio
Ennessy, Raymond Pierce.......................Illinois
Ernest, B.....................................Indiana
Escher, Edward Paul......................Pennsylvania
Espinal, Antonio Marino..............Guanabacoa,	Cuba
Falomir, Jos§...........
Fanelli, Salvatore Paul
Mexico City, Mexico
.........Kentucky
212	"	BULLETIN OF THE
Fanning, Michael D’Arcy..............................Ohio
Farneman, John D. Jennings........................Indiana
Fenesy, James Clair..........................Pennsylvania
Ferrell, Louis Tiffany......................West	Virginia
Ferrell, Maurice Bennett....................West	Virginia
Ferrell, Taylor.............................West	Virginia
Fink, Carl Henry.................................Michigan
Finnigan, George Joseph.......................New	York
Fish, Aubrey Aaron...............................Illinois
Fish, James Leo.............................Massachusetts
FitzGerald, Harold Francis.......................Illinois
Fitzgerald, Robert Louis............................Texas
Fitzpatrick, William Boland..............'.......Indiana
Flaherty, James Joseph...........................Illinois
Flynn, Charles* Joseph......................Massachusetts
Foley, Andrew Edward.......................South	Dakota
• Foley, James Timothy...........................New	Jersey
Foley, Thomas Francis............................Colorado
Follett, Judson George....a..........................Iowa
Ford, Alfred Timmonds..........................  Illinois
Fordyce, John Martin............................Wisconsin
Forrestal, Peter Paul...........................Wisconsin
Fournier, Arthur Martin..........................Michigan
Fox, John McDill................................Wisconsin
Freeze, Chester Douglas.........../......Massachusetts
Freyermuth, John Warren...........................Indiana
Fritch, Emil Joseph..............................Illinois
Fritch, Louis Michael............................Illinois
Fruechtl, John Baptist.....................North	Dakota
Fuchs, Albert....................................Illinois
Fuchs, Carl Ernest...............................Illinois
Funk, Elmo Ambrose................................Indiana
Furniss, Thomas James...........................Wisconsin
Gaffney, Edwin Joseph............................Michigan
Gallart, John Baptiste.............................  Cuba
Gamboa, Nicholas A....................Cienfuegos, Cuba
Gamboa, Octavio F.....................Cienfuegos, Cuba
Garcia, Manuel Lopez..,......................New	Mexico
Garcia, Rafael...........................Puebla,	Mexico
Garvey, Henry Valentine..........................Illinois
Gaskill, Howard Charles...........................Indiana
Gassensmith, Frederick Michael...................Illinois
Gates, John Frederick................................Iowa
Gavagan, Francis James...........................Colorado
k
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
213
Gaynor, Thomas.................................Indiana
Geary, Arthur Michael.....................Pennsylvania
Gehant, Oliver Laurent....................... Illinois
George, B,.....................................Indiana
Gira, Bernard Augustine...................South	Dakota
Glynn, Thomas Davis...........................Indiana
Goddeyne, Joseph Charles..........*............Indiana
Goggin, James Aidan...........................Michigan
Gonzalez, Jose Luis...............Peru, South America
Gonzales, Juan Garcia.................Saltillo,	Mexico
Goode, Walton Mills.............................  Iowa
Gotfredson, Robert Benj.......................Michigan
Gowrie, William Arthur..............Guantanamo, Cuba
Grande, Rafael Francisco........................Mexico
Gregory, B.....................................Indiana
Griffin, Peter Michael........................New	York
Grinnell, Wm. Henry...............................Ohio
Groves, Frederick Van Nostrand....................Ohio
Gumbiner, Milton..............................Illinois
Gunster, Edward Harper....................Pennsylvania
Gusching, Walter Joseph........................Indiana
Gushurst, Albert Francis..................South	Dakota
Gutierrez, Miguel.................Peru, South America
Hackett, Earl Francis.............................Ohio
Hagan, James Gordon...................'......Wisconsin
Hagerty, George Dominic........................Indiana
Hagerty, Timothy Paul..........................Indiana
Haggerty, Patrick Joseph..................Pennsylvania
Hague, Harry George...........................Illinois
Hamerski, Leo Dominic........................Minnesota
Hamilton, Miller ..............................Indiana
Hammond, Eldridge ............................Michigan
Hanley, John Connor...........................Illinois
Hanley, Thomas Francis........................Illinois
Hannah, Charles A.............................Illinois
Hannon, Leo Joseph............................New	York
Hannigan, John Joseph.........................Michigan
Harrington, Francis.............................Kansas
Harrington, Timothy Vincent.....................Kansas
Hartzer, Edward Joseph......,................  Indiana
Havican, Thomas Aloysius....................................Pennsylvania
Hayden, Wm. Basil.........................Wisconsin
Hayes, Robert Magnor..........................Missouri
Hazard, Joseph Leo..........................’.Michigan
214
BULLETIN OF THE
Hazinski, Alex. Stanislaus......................Indiana
Hebenstreit, Anton Raymond....................Wisconsin
Hebert, Peter Edward...........................Michigan
Heilman, Arthur George........................Wisconsin
Heiser, Allan Joseph............................Indiana
Henning*, Arthur Aloysius......................Missouri
Henry, J. W....................................Illinois
Hentges, Oscar Raphael..........................Indiana
Herr, Stephen Henry............................Illinois
Heyl, Martin John..........................Pennsylvania
Heyl, Wm. John.............................Pennsylvania
Hilkert, Albert Andrew.............................Ohio
Elilton, Hoyt Watson.........................Washington
Hinde, John James..................................Ohio
Hinderschied, Harold...............................Ohio
Hodson, Stanley.................................Indiana
Hogan, Leo James..........................-........Ohio
Hollearn, Francis Joseph.......................Illinois
Hosinski, John Stanislaus.......................Indiana
Hosinski, Sylvester Aloysius....................Indiana
Howley, Thomas Francis.............................Ohio
Hubbell, John Anthony........................New	Mexico
Huferd, George Francis.........................Illinois
Hug, Otto Joseph...................................Ohio
Hughes, Arthur John........................’...Illinois
Hughes, Raymond Patrick.................Ontario, Canada
Hughes, Reginald Ormond........................Illinois
Hughes, Thomas Cleveland...................Pennsylvania
Hurd, Howard Edward...........................Illinois^
Hutchins, Wm. Ambrose..............................Ohio
Hutzell, Ellsworth Franklin.....................Indiana
Hutzell, Oscar Daniel...........................Indiana
Jacobs, Bernard .	 Illinois
Jaenke, William Daniel.........................Louisiana
Jakubowski, Ceslaus Joseph......................Illinois
Jalondoni, Daniel Laurence............Philippine Islands
Janecki, Francis................................Illinois
Jansen, William Frederick........................Alabama
Jaukowski, Casimir Benjamin......................Indiana
Jennings, Clarence Alonzo.......................Illinois
Johnson, Charles Chouteau.......................Missouri
Johnson, Charles Herman.....................South	Dakota
Johnson, Robert.................................Missouri
Jordon, Francis Michael.........................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
215
Joyce, Anthony Thomas......................Pennsylvania
Jurschek, Max John................................Texas
Kamm, Adolph Xavier.............................Indiana
Kanaley, John Bernard..........................New	York
Kane, John Timothy.............................Illinois
Kasper, Robert Adam............................Illinois
Kasper, Simeon Michael.........................Illinois
Kavanaugh, John Raymond........................Illinois
Kay, Budd Wm. W....................................Ohio
Keach, LeRoy Joseph.............................Indiana
Keefe, Daniel Joseph...........................Michigan
Keefe, Edward Joseph...........................Michigan
Keefe, Francis Thomas..........................Michigan
Keeffe, Richard Herbert............................Iowa
Kehoe, Francis Leo............................Wisconsin
Kehoe, James Patrick..........................Wisconsin
Kelley, John Charles............................Indiana
Kelley, Joseph Edward..............................Ohio
Kellner, George Baschen........................Kentucky
Kelly, Darnay Anthony.........................Wisconsin
Kelly, Luke Leo...........................Massachusetts
Kelly, Maxey John..............................New	York
Kenefick, James Paul............................Indiana
Kennedy, Donald Edward.........................Michigan
Kennedy, Edward Michael....................Pennsylvania
Kennedy, James Francis....................North Dakota
Kennedy, John Joseph.......................Pennsylvania
Kern, Peter Everett................................Ohio
Kessler, Glen Wm................................Indiana
Keys, Albert Heuser............:...................Ohio
Keys, Arthur Aloysius..............................Ohio
Klarkowski, Stanislaus Henry...................Illinois
Knauf, Arthur Raymond.......................’.Wisconsin
Knisely, Richard Wm............................Illinois
Kosterman, Herman Anthony.....................Wisconsin
Kroll, John Joseph.............................Illinois
Kruszewski, Leo Hilary..........................Indiana
Kryl, John Francis.............................Illinois
Kryl, Joseph Michael...........................Illinois
Kuhle, Henry....................•................  Ohio
Lachman, Marcus..........................Illinois
Lahey, Thomas Aquinas.....................Indiana
Lamb, Edwin Alexander.................North	Dakota
Lamb, Rex Edward.........................Michigan
216
BULLETIN OF THE
Langdon, Laurence Edwin.......................Colorado
Lange, Bernard Herman.....................Pennsylvania
Larkin, Arthur Bernard........................Illinois
Larkin, Harold William........................Illinois
Lawrence, Wm. Ridgeway........................Oklahoma
Lawton, Jasper Howard............................Texas
Ledford, Hal Gordon...........................Illinois
Ledwidge, Harry Aloysius..................Pennsylvania
Lee, Cosmo Francis..............................Nevada
Lee, Julius- Joseph.................................Utah
Lenard, Felix Edward............................Illinois
Lenertz, John Arthur............................Oklahoma
Lenhart, Charles Francis...................South	Dakota
Lennartz, William Peter.............................Ohio
Lensing, Henry Bernard...........................Indiana
Leondardt, Adolph Carl........................California
Leslie, Woody Higgins............................Indiana
Lingelbach, Hugo William.......................Wisconsin
Listecki, Edward ...............;...............Illinois
Livingston, Lester Meyer.........................Indiana
Loebs, Earl Raymond..........................New	Mexico
Loebs, Ray Jacob.............................New	Mexico
Lonergan, Felix Anton...........................Nebraska
Lopez, Jose, Trinidad.................Overetard,	Mexico
Louisell, Clifton Medor..........................Alabama
Lucas, George Maurice............................Indiana
Lucas, Philip Horne..............................Indiana
Lujon, Edward Lawrence.......................New	Mexico
Lunden, Charles Leon de.....................Brussels,	Belgium
Lunden, Pierre Leon de......................Brussels,	Belgium
Luzny, Francis Xavier................................Indiana
Lynch, Edwin Joseph........................‘............Ohio
Lynch, John Joseph..................................Illinois
Lynch, Lawrence James............................  .Illinois
Lynch, Leo Francis............................  North	Dakota
Lyons, Edward James............................. .Illinois
MacDonald, Angus Joseph.....................Michigan
Machalinski, Aloysius...................Pennsylvania
Macias, Ernesto..................Guadalajara,	Mexico
Mack, Henry Paul................................Ohio
Madarasz, Jesse A...........................Colorado
Madden, Frank Leo...........................Michigan
Maguire, Thomas Oswold......................Illinois
Maher, Francis Thomas...............:........Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
217
Mainey, Lawrence.................................. Ohio
Malinowski, Bernard  .....................Pennsylvania
Malloy, Adrian Stafford......................New York
Maloney, Justin John............................Indiana
Maltby, Howson Morris..........................Illinois
Mann, Ballard Florian..........................Illinois
Mann, Milton Charles...........................Illinois
Margraf, John John............................  Germany
Maroney, Joseph John............................Indiana
'Marr, Charles Bennett.........................Illinois
Marshall, Charles Joseph...........................Ohio
Martel, George Wendell.........................Illinois
Martin, Joseph Andrew...........................Indiana
Martin, Winfred Edwin..........................Illinois
Martinez, Eleuterio...................Monterey, Mexico
Mathis, Michael Ambrose.........................Indiana
Maurer, Ralph August............................Indiana
Maxwell, Lucien Joseph.........................Illinois
May, Clarence Willard..............................Ohio
Mayer, Adrian Morris...........................Illinois
Meena ch, Harry Wm...........................Washington
Mein, Francis Joseph...............................Iowa
Mertes, Albert Thomas..........................Michigan
Metcalf, Albert Lorenzo.......................Wisconsin
Meuninck, Julius..........................-.....Indiana
Meyer, Arthur Gerald...........................Illinois
Milanowski Stanislaus Francis..................Illinois
Milius, George A.............................New York
Millea, Glendon Thomas..........................Indiana
Miller, Martin Harold..............................Ohio
Miller, Paul Joseph............................Michigan
Mills, Frederick Leon........................  Illinois
Mills, Ralph Joseph............................Illinois
Miltner, Charles Christopher...................Michigan
Minnick, William Francis.....................New York
Misch, Edgar John..................................Ohio
Mohn, Burkhardt Wm..............................Indiana
Molina, Alejandro Enrique.........Peru, South America
Moloney, James Ignatius...........Massachusetts
Moloney, Louis Haver#........................New York
Monaghan, James Willicm............District of Columbia
Monheimer, Harold E...............Illinois
Moore, Charles Edward Vance.’..................Illinois
Moore, Kenneth Duncan.........'................Illinois
Moore, William Joseph.....................Massachusetts
218
BULLETIN OF THE
Moran, George Herbert......................Minnesota
Moran, Leo Celestine........................Illinois
Moriarty, Michael Lee...........................Ohio
Morrill, Louis Harold........................Indiana
Morrison, Denis Augustine.......................Iowa
Morse, Charles Hosmer......................-.. Illinois
Morse, Robert Hosmer........................Illinois
Mose, Richard Paul Christiansen..............Indiana
Moynihan, Emmett Aloysius...................Illinois
Mueller, Adolph Stephen...................... Colorado
Mullally, John Norvell......................Missouri
Mullally, Joseph Wilson.....................Missouri
Mullen, Leo Francis........................New York
Mullin, John Henry......................Pennsylvania
Mulloy, Bernard Benedict....................Illinois
Munoz, Ignacio........................Parral,	Mexico
Munson, Francis Elmer.......................Illinois
Murdock, Byron Leon..........................Indiana
Murdock, Charles Lillis......................Indiana
Muriel, Salvador..............San	Luis, Potosi, Mexico
Murphy, Charles Wm......................Pennsylvania
Murphy, John Perry...........................Indiana
Murphy, John Wm............................New York
Murray, Charles Donnelly....................,	Colorado
McAleenan, Howard Wm........................Illinois
McBride, Edmund Leo.....................Pennsylvania
McBride, Francis Bernard................Pennsylvania
McBride, Walter Joseph.....................New York
McCafferty, Jas. Prancratius..............Washington
McCann, William Joseph..........................Ohio
McCarthy, Grover Cleveland..............South Dakota
McCarthy, Jeremiah Anthony...................Indiana
McCarthy, Peter Gaddis.......................Indiana
McCarty, Hiram George.......................Michigan
McCawley, Francis Halloway..................Kentucky
McClory, Joseph William.....................Illinois
McCord, Victor Williamson....................Indiana
McDermott, Edward Louis.................Pennsylvania
McDonald, Donnelly Patrick... .♦.............Indiana
McDonald, Kenneth Breen....................x.	Indiana
McDonald, Lawrence..........................Illinois
McDonald, Meredith Raymond...................Indiana
McDonald, Paul Ambrose..........................Ohio
McDonough, Edward...........................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
219
McDonough, Harry Francis...................Illinois
McElhone, James Francis...............•. .Pennsylvania
McElreavy, Leslie Anthony..................Illinois
McElroy, Leo Cyril......................Connecticut
McFarland, Clarence Joseph.....................Ohio
McGannon, T. Paul..........................New	York
McGuire, Alfred James......................Michigan
McGuire, Thomas Carruthers...;.................Ohio
McGee, James Paul..............................Ohio
McGillis, Verne Daniel.....................Michigan
McGrath, Thomas Joseph....................Minnesota
McIntyre, Harry Charles.....................Indiana
McIntyre, Palmer ..........................Illinois
McIver, Francis Fergus...................  New	York
McIver, James Shaw.........................New	York
McKee, John................................Illinois
McKenna, Coe Aloysius........................Oregon
McKenzie, Donald John.......................Indiana
McKindley, Daniel Edward....................Indiana
McKinnie, Gerald Fleming...............Pennsylvania
McLain, Bernard Francis..................New	Jersey
McMahon, James Donald..............’........Indiana
McMann, George Wm..........................Illinois
McMorran, Wm. Edward.......................Illinois
McNally, Forest James.......................Indiana
- McNally, Raymond Aloysius......................Ohio
McNamee, Ignatius Edward.....................Oregon
McNeely, Arthur Francis....................Missouri
McNerney, Mark Harold..........................Ohio
McNulty, John Francis......................Missouri
McPartlin, Leslie John....................Wisconsin
McPhee, John Elmer.........................Colorado
McQuaid, Samuel Lahey.................Massachusetts
McQuaid, William Bernard....................Indiana
Nachowicz, Theophilus Jacob................Illinois
Neble, Sophus F............................Nebraska
Nelson, Paul Daniel........................Illinois
Newman, Harry Edward...........................Iowa
Newton, Ralph Wm.. ........................Illinois
Nicholas, B.................................Indiana
Nieto, Francisco Garza.............Monterey,	Mexico
Nolan, Thomas Francis....................New Jersey
Norckauer, Maurice Joseph......................Ohio
Noud, Ruben Patrick........................Michigan
Nugent, John Francis.....................New Jersey
220	BULLETIN OF THE
O’Brien, Cornelius...........................Minnesota
O’Brien, Francis Anthony......................Illinois
O’Brien, James Joseph.........................Michigan
O’Brien, Simon Anthony........................New	York
O’Brien, Sylvester Leo........................Illinois
O’Brien, Wm. Edward..........................Wisconsin
O’Byrne, Louis Fallon........’.................Alabama
O’Connell, John Charles..'....................Illinois
O’Connell, Thomas Barry.......................Illinois
O’Connor, Arthur Joseph...........................Iowa
O’Donnell, Thos. Raymond.......................Indiana
Oelerich, Joseph Fred.........................Illinois
O’Farrell, Charles Whitty.....................Illinois
O’Flynn, Edward Francis........................Montana
O’Flynn, James Baldwin.........................Montana
Ogus, Edward Isidore..........................Illinois
Ohmer, Henry Beckman..............................Ohio
Ohmer, Robert Fasold..............................Ohio
O’Leary, James................................Illinois
Oliver, William Ronald...................New Merico
Olston, Francis Michael..................West Virginia
O’Neil, John Paul........................Pennsylvania.
Orminski, John Charles........................Illinois
Oshe, Marcellus Mathew............................Ohio
O’Shea, Dennis Aloysius.......................Illinois
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph...........................Illinois	«
O’Shea, William Joseph.........................Indiana
Osborne, Lee..................................Illinois
O’Sullivan, Daniel............................Illinois
Paine, Robert Edward.............................Texas
Palacio, Manuel Frederico............Monterey, Mexico
Parker, Reed Lynne.............................Indiana
Parkes, John Lindsey........................  Nebraska
Parrish, Varnum Augustine.....................Illinois
Partridge, John Arthur............................Ohio
Paule, Cornelius Harrington...................Illinois
Perez, Ignacio Rubusteino............Guantanamo, Cuba
Perrey, Edward	Joseph.......................Indiana
Peurrung, Joseph	Charles.........................Ohio
Phillips, Thomas	Wright....................California
Phillips, Wendall	Thomas.................Massachusetts
Pick, Carl Stephen...........................Wisconsin
Pierce, Gerald Jeremias........................Indiana
Plummer, Wm. Francis.........................Wisconsin
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
221
Pope, John Doyle................................Illinois
Potts, George Joseph...........................  Indiana
Powers, Fred. William..........................Illinois'
Prada, Jose Vicente.......................Celaya,	Mexico
Prawdzich, Adolph..............................Wisconsin
Prendergast, George P...........................Missouri
Prendergast, Hugh Wm............................Missouri
Preston, Norman Charles.......................New York
Probst, Rudolph Otto.............................Indiana
Qualmann, Paul Henry.............................Indiana
Quigley, Henry Thomas.............................Kansas
Quinlan, James Joseph...........................Illinois
Quinlan, Joseph Andrew..........................Illinois
Quinn, Edmond John............................New York
Quinn, Walter Leo...........................South	Dakota
Quintanilla, Ignacio........................Mexico City
Radel, Edward Herman..........................New	Jersey
Rafferty, Harry Thomas................................Illinois
Railton, Bert Aloysius................................Illinois
Rainey, Carl Raymond..................................Illinois
Rangel, Manuel...........................Puebla, Mexico
Ratcliffe, Moyse............................;.....Texas
Rath, Raymond August..........................New York
Redding, James Francis................-.......New York
Reed, Richard Joseph...........................Illinois
Rempe, George Aloysius...........................Illinois
Rempe, Harold Raymond............................Illinois
Rempe, Lester Wm,-...............................Illinois
Reyher, Clyde Herbert.............................Indiana
Reynolds, Lawrence..............................Wisconsin
Rice, Wilfred Washington......................Mississippi
Rice, Wm. H..................................Pennsylvania
Richardson, William Joseph....................Indiana
Richmond, Charles Milton..................Illinois
Rider, Elroy Morton........................Indiana
Ritter, Forest Hamilton....................Indiana
Roach, George Henry......................Wisconsin
Roach, John William..............................Iowa	.
Roan, Frencis Joseph........................Virginia
Robinson, Girard Charles................Pennsylvania
Rokop, Andrew.......................................Indiana
Rolando, James Dominic..............................Illinois
Romana, Juan Manuel..........Peru,	South America	z
222
BULLETIN OF THE
Romero, Joaquin.......................Oaxaca, Mexico
Ros, Carlos Manuel............Panama,	Central America
Ros, Gustavo Adolfo...........Panama,	Central America
Rosenberger, Anthony Albert..................Indiana
Roth, Jesse Henry............................Indiana
Rothwell, Emil James../......................Wyoming
Rothwell, Ermin Carl.........................Wyoming
Rousseau, Rafael...................Guantanamo, Cuba
Rozewicz, Anthony John........................Indiana
Rubio, Marcelino Garcia..........Sancti	Spiritus, Cuba
Rubio, Ramon Garcia..............Sancti	Spiritus, Cuba
Ruell, Uric Joseph.....................Massachusetts
Ruof, John Edward.......................Pennsylvania
Ryan, William Richard...;.......................Ohio
Sahagun, Jesse...................Guadalajara,	Mexico
Saley, Robert Lawrence......................Iowa
Salomon, Earle Litt.......................Illinois
Sanchez, Alfredo Arnulfo................Mexico City
Sands, George Washington....................Ohio
San Pedro, Alvaro Rodriguez. Consolacion del Sur,	Cuba
San Pedro, Manuel Rodriguez. Consolacion del Sur, Cuba
Scales, John Joseph..............................New	York
Scanlan, Ambrose James...........................New	York	•
Scanlon, Francis Aloysius........................New	York
Scanlon, Joseph Raymond..........................New	York
Schickler, Clarence Peter........................Illinois
Schindler, John Wm................................Indiana
Schinkoeth, LeRoy................................Illinois
Schmid, Otto Aloysius............................Missouri
Schmitt, Paul Anthony......................!........Ohio
Schmitt, Wm. Charles............................Minnesota
Schoessling, Paul Herbert........................Illinois
Scholl, Carl August........................i......Illinois
Schrader, Harry John..............................Indiana
Schreiner, Norbert Henry........................Minnesota
Schreyer, Andrew Ignatius.........................Indiana
Schubert, Francis Xavier..........................Indiana
Schumacher, Leo Albert............................Indiana
Schuster, Daniel Devendorf......................Wisconsin
Schuster, George Clarence........................Illinois
Schwalbe, Joseph Wm..............................Illinois
Schwalbe, Oscar Henry............................Illinois
Scullen, John Emmett............................Wisconsin
Seery, Thomas....................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
223
Sellers, Felix Jefferson.........................Alabama
Serowinski, Ladislaus Francis..............Pennsylvania
Sexton, James Clement............................ .Ohio
Shafer, Arthur Joseph..........................California	,
Shannon, John Hastings..........................Michigan
Shannon, Leo Justin...-..........................Montana
Shea, Edward Bartlett..........................Wisconsin
Sheahan, Charles Higgins........................Illinois
Sheahan, John Drury.............................Illinois
Sheahan, Joseph Gary............................Illinois
Sheehan, Harry..................:................Indiana
Sheehan, Thomas Anthony.............................Ohio
Shenk, Robert Raymond...............................Ohio
Sheppard, George Martin.........................New	York
Shourds, Dalton Bacon............................Indiana
Sickler, Francis John...........................Illinois
Sieber, Raymond Joseph.........................Wisconsin
Siewertsen, Rudolph Lorenz.......................Indiana
Simon, Arthur Thomas.................Guantanamo, Cuba
Simpson, John Henry..............................Montana
Sinclair, Carlisle Frederick....................Nebraska
Sinnott, Myles Hilt..............................Indiana
Sippel, Edward Anton............................Illinois
Sippel, George Bruno............................Illinois
Skahen, Serenus Paul...........................Minnesota
Skelly, Raymond Edward......................Pennsylvania
Skopowski, Hippolitus Joseph....................Illinois
Slavin, John Louis..............................Illinois
Slick, John Lucius..............................Indiana
Smith, Charles Edward..........................Illinois
Smith, George Andrew............................Indiana
Smith, Leonard Francis..........................Indiana
Smyth, Edward Alphonsus............................Utah
Smyth, Thomas Francis...........................  .Utah
‘ Smyth, Walter Dennis..............................Utah
Sobolewski, Wenceslaus Anthony.................Illinois
Somers, Michael Francis........................Illinois
Sorg, Claude A.................................New	York
Sours, Lyle Samuel.........................South	Dakpta
Spear, Arthur Upham...............................Texas
Spratt, Robert Paul.............................Wyoming
Sprenger, George Wm............................Illinois
Springer, Thomas Alexander....................  Indiana
Stack, James Joseph............................Illinois
Steele Leonard Edward..........................Illinois
224
BULLETIN OF THE
Stevenson, Flournay David Jolin..............Kentucky-
Stevenson, Joab Evans........................Kentucky-
Stewart, Frederick James.....................Wisconsin
Stoakes, Lawrence Mitchell................Pennsylvania
Strassner, George Francis.........................Ohio
Streff, Anthony Lawrence......................Nebraska
Stueckle, Clarence Charles.....................Indiana
Sullivan, John Cornelius......................Michigan
Sullivan, John Francis........................Illinois
Summers, Edward James..........................Indiana
Sundberg, Bertram John............................Iowa
Susen, Theodore...............................Illinois
Swearngen, James Emmett........................Indiana
Sweeney, John Maurice.........................Illinois
Szamecki, Stanislaus Peter.....................Indiana
Szymanski, Ladislaus...........................Indiana
Talcott, Rodney Danforth........................Indiana
Tappan, Roger Forkner...........................Indiana
Theurer, Joseph ...............................Illinois
Thill, Reynolds ...................................Iowa
Theodore, B.................................... Indiana
Thornton, John Shanley........................Minnesota
. Tighe, Raymond Leo............................Illinois
Tipton, William Reuben.....................New Mexico
Titus, George Warner............................Indiana
Tobolski, Stanislaus Hilarion...................Indiana
TomcZak, Ladislaus Proch...................’ Illinois
Toohey, James Anthony..........................New	York
Toole, James Vincent...........................Michigan
Torres Federico Arturo Hidalgo.. .Peru, South America
Toth, Joseph Michael............................Indiana
Trevino, Gustavo Lorenzo.............Monterey, Mexico
Trevino, Joseph Oscar................Chihuahua, Mexico
Trumbull, Selden...............................Illinois
Tulley, Harbert Charles........................Illinois
Tully, John Carl...............................Illinois
Tyler, Cyril John..................................Ohio
Ullrich, Louis Frederick........
Underwood, Eugene...............
..............Illinois
District of Columbia
Valverde, Jose Francisco de................Oaxaca,	Mexico
Van Cleve, Franklin H............................Illinois
Van Engers, Philip..........'....................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. '	225
Vaughan, William McCullough.....................Indiana
Veazey, Louis Alphonsus................-...West Virginia
Veazey, Oscar Edward........................West	Virginia
Venaleck, Frank............................Pennsylvania
Villaflor, Pastor............Philippine Islands
Villarreal, Fortunato F...............Monterey, Mexico
Vocke, Laurence John...............................Ohio
Voelkers, John Joseph...........................Indiana
Von der Heide, Claude Wm.......................Illinois
Vyzral, Sylvester............................. Illinois
Wagenknight, Oscar Pearl....................Illinois
Wagner, Benjamin Holzman....................Illinois
Wahlen, Albert Harry.........................Indiana
Waldorf, Rufus Wm.........................  Illinois
Walker, Frank Comerford......................Montana
Walsh, George Patrick...........................Ohio
Walter, Martin Emmett.....................  Illinois
Ward, Walter Raymond.....................-...New York
Warrell, Charles Frederick...................Indiana
Warren, Homer Samuel........................Illinois
Washburn, George Edward.....................Illinois
- Weinberg, Benjamin...........................Illinois
Weis, Henry Edmard.........................Wisconsin
Welsh, Leo John.............................Illinois
Wenninger, Francis Joseph....................Indiana
West, Sidney Miller.........................Illinois
White, Carl Bradford.....................  Tennessee
White, Peter Raymond........................Illinois
White, Richard Mitchell....................Tennessee
Whitmore, Harley............................Michigan
Williams, Burrell .........................Wisconsin
Wilson, John Marion........................New York
Wilson, Richard Bruce.......................Illinois
Wilson, Wm. Harold..........................Michigan
Wole, George William.............Mexico City, Mexico
Wolford, Fred Raymond........................Indiana
Wood, Fay Franklin.........................New York
Woods, James Allen........................California
Wrobel, John Joseph..........................Indiana
Wuerth, Joseph John.............................Iowa
Young Jacob Philip...........................Indiana
Youngerman, Frank...............................Iowa
Yturria, Daniel....................Matamoras,	Mexico
226
BULLETIN OF THE
Matamoras, Mexico
Matamoras, Mexico
Yturria, Fausto.......................
Yturria, Herminio ....................
Zamorano, Carlos...............Columbia,	South America
Zelewski, Eric von...........................Wisconsin
Zgodzinski, Leo Stanislaus.....................Indiana
Zimmer, Henry Joseph......................Pennsylvania
Zink, Francis Aloysius... C.......................Ohio
Zink, Wm. Ignatius.............................Ohio
Zundel, Charles Harold....................Wisconsin
Zundel, Lee Woodward......................Wisconsin

The
Notre Dame Alumni
Association
228
BULLETIN OF THE
OFFICERS.
Honorary President,
Very Rev. Dr. Andrew Morrissey, C. S. C., ’78,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
President.
Hon. William P. Breen, ’77,
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Vice-Presiden ts,
Rev. Dennis Clarke, ’70
Columbus, Ohio.
Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan, ’88,
Chicago, Illinois.
Hon. James B. O’Brien, ’59,
Caledonia, Minnesota.
Brev. Brig/ Gen. Robert W. Healy, ’59,
Chattanooga, Tennessee. '
Hon. Timothy E. Howard, ’62,
South- Bend, Indiana.
John G. Ewing, ’77,
Chicago, Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
229
Secretary,
Rev. Michael A. Quinlan, C. S. C., ’93,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
T reasurer,
Hon. Warren A. Cartier, ’87,
Ludington, Michigan.
Trustees ’08-’09.
Hon. John M. Gearin, ’71,
Portland, Oregon.
Gustavo L. Trevino, ’08,
Monterey, Mexico.
Hon. William L. Dechant, ‘79,
Middletown, Ohio.
Trustees ’08-T0,
Samuel T. Murdock, ’86,
Lafayette, Indiana.
Byron V. Kanaley, ’04,
Chicago, Illinois.
Hon. Charles P. Neill, ’93,
Washington, D. C.
Trustees, ex-officio,
Rev. Dr. John W. Cavanaugh, ’90,
President University of Notre Dame.
Hon. William P. Breen, ’77,
President Notre Dame Alumni Association.
230
BULLETIN OF THE
LOCAL CLUBS
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK.
Rev. Luke J. Evers, President, 20 City Hall Place.
Charles A. Gorman, Vice-President, 208 Hooper St.,
Brooklyn.
Peter P. M. McElligott, Secretary, 112 Wall St.
Thomas Murray, Treasurer.
.THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON.
Dr. Francis E. Carroll, President, 217 Huntington Ave.
Hon. William P. Higgins, Vice-President, 43 Tremont St.
Dr. John Fennessey, Secretary, Dorchester.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA.
James P. Fogarty, President, Betz Bldg.
Joseph D. Murphy, Vice-President.
Andrew J. Hanhauser, Secretary, 27 N. Fiftieth St.
John H. Neeson,'Treasurer, 1701 Columbia Ave.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Bldg.
Frank P. Burke, Vice-President, 900 Pabst Bldg.
George F. Ziegler, Secretary.
Louis E. Best, Treasurer.
©>
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON.
John C. Shea, President.
Peter Kuntz, Vice-President.
A. W. McFarland, Sec.-Treas.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PORTLAND.
Hon. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
John F. Daly, Vice-President.
F. J. Lonergan, Sec.-Treas., Columbia University.
Sixty - Fourth
Annual Commencement
Degrees, Honors, Prize Medals
232
BULLETIN OF THE
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
The Rev. Gilbert Patrick Jennings, Cleveland, Ohio.
Brev. Brig. Gen. Robert Wallace Healy, Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.
The Hon. Charles Patrick Neill, Washington, D. C.
Judge James O’Brien,- Caledonia. Minn.
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on
Michael Joseph Brown, Philadelphia, Pa.
Francis Thomas Collier, Quebec, Canada.
Robert Adam Kasper, Evanston, Ill.
Frederick William McKinley, Clermont, la.
Walter James O’Donnell, Notre Dame, Ind.
John Francis Shea, Holyoke, Mass.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
Michael Joseph Brown, Philadelphia, Pa.
J. Frank Hanan, La Grange, Indiana.
T. Paul McGannon, Corning, N. Y.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Francis Derrick, Oil City, Pa.
Raymond Augustine Rath, Hempstead, Long Island,
N. Y.
Robert Lawrence Saley, Hampton, Iowa.
Erancis Aloysius Zink, Canton, Ohio.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	233
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
Joseph Justin Boyle, Rockwell, Iowa.
Edward Michael Kennedy, Scottdale, Pa.
• William Peter Lennartz, Fort Recovery, O.
Francis Thomas Maher, Kokomo, Ind.
Vamum Augustine Parish, Momence, Ill.
James Joseph Quinlan, Chicago, Ill.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred
on
James Joseph Corbett, Chicago, Ill.
Francis Xavier Cull, Miamisburg, Ohio.
James Joseph Flaherty, Peru, Ill.
Leslie John McPartlin, Oshkosh, Wis.
John William Roach, Muscatine, Iowa.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was
conferred on
Jacob Philip Young, Huntington, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture
was conferred on
Rolland Adelsperger, South Bend, Ind.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
John Francis Berteling, South Bend, Ind.
Dominic Leo Callicrate, South Bend, Ind.
Angel Joseph Caparo, Peru, South America.
Marcellinus G. Rubio, Sancti Spiritus, Cuba.
Tiie Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred
on
Robert Emmet Anderson, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Charles Herman Johnson, St. Paul, Minn.
- John Joseph Scales, Brooklyn, New York.
Rufus William Waldorf, Mendota, Illinois.
€
234
BULLETIN OF THE
The Degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred on
Simon Anthony O’Brien, New York City.
Joseph Daniel Sinnott, Astoria, Oregon.
Gustavo Lorenzo Trevino, Monterey, Mexico.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Robert Louis Bracken, Polo, Illinois.
John Francis Brogan, The Dalles, Oregon.
Harry Albert Curtis, Newburyport, Mass.
Howard Clayton Davis, Hanna, Indiana.
Rupert Donnelly Donovan, Woodstock, Ill.
Max John Jurschek, San Antonio, Texas.
Le Roy Joseph Keach, Indianapolis, Ind.
Clarence Willard May, Suffield, Ohio.
Francis Elmer Munson, Mendota, Illinois.
Palmer Honus McIntyre, Hanover, Illinois.
George William Sprenger, Peoria, Ill.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred
on
Hiram G. McCarthy, Mackinac Island, Mich.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was con-
ferred on
Richard Bruce Wilson, Chicago, Ill.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical
Engineering were awarded to
Joaquin Luis Bathe, Barcelona, Spain.
Adolph Stephen Mueller, Denver, Colo.
James Anthony Toohey, Binghamton, N. Y.
Leo John Welsh, Williamsfield, Ill.
Henry Edward Weis, Wausau, Wis.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	235
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical
Engineering were awarded to
Santiago Herman Ansoategui, Mayaguez, Puerto
Rico.
Henry Anthony Burdick, Cincinnati, O.
Paul Allen Beeson, Three Oaks, Mich.
John William Murphy, Corning, New York.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Bernard Anthony Bannon, Crafton, Pa.
John Jerome Brislin, Homestead, Pa. *
Walter John Degnan, Toledo, O.
Oliver Laurent Gehant, West Brooklyn, Ill.
Jose Luis Gonzalez, Peru, South America.
Francis Bernard McBride, Allegheny, Pa.
Rafael Rousseau, Guantanamo, Cuba.
John Louis Slavin, Hebron, Ill.
Thomas Francis Smyth, Ogden, Utah. '
Lyle Samuel Sours, Watertown, S. Dak.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the
best record in the Classical Program, Senior
Year, and a money prize of twenty-five dollars,
■ gift of Mr. Henry W. Quan, in memory of his
deceased father, were awarded to
Francis Derrick, Oil City, Pa.	•
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George
Mason, of Chicago, for the student of Carroll
Hall having the best record for the scholastic
year was awarded to
Theodore Susen; Chicago, Illinois.

236
BULLETIN OF THE
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, pre-
sented by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, Covington,
Kentucky, was awarded to
Francis Thomas Maher, Kokomo, Ind.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by the
Hon. William P. Breen of the Class of ’77, was
awarded to
Joseph Justin Boyle, Rockwell, Iowa.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by
Mr. A. S. Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, for
the best record for four years in the Civil En-
gineering Program, was awarded to
Angel Caparo, Peru, South America.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doc-
trine in Moral A, presented by the Rev. M. J.
Fitzsimmons, Chicago, was awarded to
Thomas Frederick Cleary, Gridley, Illinois.
The Quinn Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in
Moral B, presented by the Rev. John J. Quinn,
of the Class of ’83, was awarded to
John Carl Tully, El Paso, Illinois.
The Barry Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine in
Carroll Hall, presented by the Rev. F. J. Barry,
of Chicago, was awarded to
Henry Joseph Armstrong, Chicago, Illinois.
Seventy-five Dollars in Gold for debating work, pre-
sented by Mr. J. V. Clark, of Chicago, was
awarded as follows:
Thirty-five Dollars to
William Peter Lennartz, Fort Recovery, O.
Twenty-five Dollars to
Francis Comerford Walker, Butte, Mont.
Fifteen Dollars to
John Bernard Kanaley, Weedsport, N. Y.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
237
Ten Dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented by
Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the Class of ’89,
was awarded to ..
Richard Joseph Collentine, Monroe, Wis.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Sophomore Oratory, presented
by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the Class of ’91,
was awarded to
George Joseph Finnigan, Malone, N. Y.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Freshman Oratory, presented
by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the Class of ’91, was
awarded to
Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan City, Ind.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preparatory Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell, of the Class
of ’04, was awarded to	-	'
Charles Joseph Flynn, Lynn, Mass.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in
the Commercial School was awarded to
Thomas Francis Smyth, Ogden, Utah.
One ex aequo was also awarded to
Oliver Laurent Gehant, West Brooklyn, Ill.
The O’Brien Gold Medal for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence-A.
O’Brien, of Chicago, was awarded to
John Edward Ruof, Lancaster, Pa.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by the
Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
Claude A. Sorg, New York City.
The Joseph A. Lyons Gold Medal for Elocution, was
awarded to
Raymond Harry Bowles, Littleton, Colo.
238
BULLETIN OF THE
DEPORTMENT PRIZES.
[Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils of Carroll
Flail who have spent two full years at Notre Dame and whose
deportment during- the whole time has been unexceptionable.]
[Certificates are awarded to those pupils of Carroll Hall who
have followed the courses of the University at least two terms,
and whose deportment during- the whole time has been unex-
ceptionable.]
CARROLL HALL.
Deportment Gold Medals were awarded to
Julius Joseph Lee, Salt Lake City, Utah.
Jeremiah A. McCarthy, Logansport, Ind.
Ralph William Newton, Glen Ellyn, Ill.
Joseph G. Sheehan, Winnetka, Ill. (Renewal).
Certificates for Deportment were awarded to
Andreas Baca Aguirre, Vera Cruz, Mexico.
Henry Joseph Armstrong, Chicago, Illinois.
Julio Alarcon, Cuernavaca, Morelas, Mex.
George Aldrete, Guadalajara, “Mexico.
Julio Cortazar, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Arthur James Christie, Chicago, Ill.
William Francis Cody, Covington, Ky.
William Pointelle Downing, Decatur, Ill.
Daniel Franklin Duify, Chicago, Ill.
Edward Keenan Delana, Cortland, Ill.
John Martin Fordyce, Butternut, Wis.
Thomas James Furniss, Superior, Wis.
Juan Garcia Gonzales, Satillo, Mexico.
John Raymond Kavanaugh, Chicago, Ill.
Arthur Bernard Larkin, Chicago, Illinois.
George A. Milius, New York City.
Charles Lillis Murdock, South Bend, Ind.
Bernard Francis McLain, Elizabeth, N. J.
James Shaw McIver, New York City.
John Francis Nugent, Elizabeth, N. J.
William Ronald Oliver, Roswell, N. M.
George Brunuo Sippel, Chicago, Ill.
Theodore Susen, Chicago, Ill.
John Louis Slavin, Hebron, Ill.
Joseph Oscar Trevino, Chihuahua, Mexico.
Cyril John Tyler, Elyria, Ohio.
Martin Emmett Walter, Mt. Carmel, Ill.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
239
INDEX
Administration Building-, The. 12
Admission to the Colleges....
..........19, 38, 50, 58, 64, 86
Advanced Standing.........19, 97
Alumni Association Officers. . .228
Anatomy, Courses in.......45, 106
Architecture, The College of. . 84
Architecture, Courses in......106
Arts and Letters, The College
of....................... 36
Astronomy, Courses in.......Ill
Athletics.................17,	29
Bachelors’ Degrees.......... 20
Bacteriology, Course in.....Ill
Biology, Program in......... 56
Biological Laboratories..... 44
Board of Trustees............ 4
Board and Lodging........... 33
Botany, Courses in..........112
Botanical Laboratories...... 44
Breen Medal................. 26
Brownson Hall . ............ 16
Buildings................... 12
Calendar..................... 3
Carroll Scholarship......... 24
Carr oil Hall............... 16
Charter..................... 11
Chemical Laboratories.....14, 46
Chemistry, The Department of 55
Chemistry, Courses in.......114
Christian Doctrine, Courses in. 119
Church, The................. 12
Civil Engineering-, The De-
partment of.............. 65
Civil Engineering', Courses in. 120
Civil Government, Course in.. 182
Classics, The Department of. . 40
Colleges:
College of Arts and Letters 36
College of Architecture. ... 84
College of Engineering-.... 62
College of Law........... 96
College of Science....... 44
Commercial School............196
Commencement............... 231
Concerts and Lectures.....29, 30
Corby Hall.................. 15
Courses of Instruction ... 105, 182
Debating Prize.............. 27
Degrees...................20,	232
Directory of the	University... 2
Directors of Flails.......... 6
Discipline.................. 27
Doctor of Philosophy, The De-
gree of . . .,........... 22
Dormitories...............15,	16
Drawing, Courses in. 127, 130, 182
Economics, The Department of 42
Economics, Courses in........167
Elocution, Courses in........135
Elocution Medals............. 26
Electrical Engineering, The
Department of .	.:	.	A.. 76
Electrical Engineering, Courses
in......................133
Engineering Hall............. 14
Engineering, The College of.. 62
English, Courses in.....137, 183
Entrance Requirements.......
'	.38, 50, 58, 64, 86, 97
Ethics. Courses in..........164
Executive Officers.......... 5
Expenses.............33,	34, 203
Faculty...................7,	174
Ford Scholarships............ 24
French, Courses in.. 169, 171, 185
Geology, Courses in..........139
German, Courses in......140, 187
Graduate Courses. 104, 114, 119,
139, 143, 145. 148, 150, 154, 168
Grammar School..........194,	200
Greek, Courses in.......141, 186
Gymnasium.................... 17
History and Economics, The
Department of ............42
History, Courses in.....144, 187
Historical Sketch of .the Uni-
versity...................11
Honors, and Prizes...........235
240
BULLETIN OF THE
Hospital...................17,	34
Hughes Medal................. 26
Infirmary.................... 17
Instruction, System	of...... 18
Instructors in the Preparatory
School.........I..........174
Italian, Courses in..........171
Johnson Scholarship........... 24
Laboratory Fees...............
.........52, 54, 56, 59, 63, 177
Laboratories.............37,
44, 45, 46, 48, 65, 68, 69, 76, 86
Latin, Courses in.»......146, 188
Law, The College of.......... 96
Law, Courses in..............102
Lectures and Concerts......29, 30
Letters, The Department of. .. 41
Library, The Main............ 12
Libraries, Department.........
.........37, 44, 48, 59, 72, 101
List of Students.............206
Lodging, Board and........... 33
Local Clubs...............  .230
Logic, Courses in............163
Mason Medal...............  25
Masters' Degrees........... 21
Mathematics, Courses in. .148, 189
Meehan Medal............... 25
Mechanical Engineering, The
Department of........... 68
Mechanical Engineering,
Courses in .............151
Medals, Prize............25,	235
Metaphysics, Courses in....163
Microscopy, Courses in.......156
Minims, The School for.....200
Museum...................... 13	.
Music Hall................. 13
Music, Courses in..........157
Observatory................. 15
Officers of the University... 5
Oratory, Courses in.........136
Pharmacy, The Department of 58
Physics, Courses in...........164
Physiology, Courses in........166
Political Science, Courses in.. 167
Politics, Courses in..........168
Portuguese, Courses in........171
Preparatory School.......173, 177
Prizes.....................25,	230
Professors .................... 7
Program of Studies..........
............................40, 41, 42, 53, 55, 57,
60, 67, 73, 75, 80,' 82, 92, 93,
94, 103, 178, 179, 180, 181, 197
Provencal, Courses in.......171
Psychology, Courses in......162
Psychological Laboratory.....37
Quan Medal............... 25
Regulations Governing Admis-
sion to the Colleges... 19
Romance Languages, Courses
in.....................169
Scholarships................... 23
Science Hall................... 13
Science, The College	of....... 44
Science, Program	of General.. 52
Science, Courses in Elemen-
tary .....................192
Short Programs in
Architecture.............. 91
Electrical Engineering .... 81
Mechanical Engineering . . 74
Shopwork, Courses in..........155
Sociology, Courses in.........168
Societies..................31,	201
Sorin Hall .................... 15
Spanish, Courses in.........170
Special Students...........23,	97
Students, List of...........206
St. Joseph Hall............. 16
System of Instruction....... 18
Title (Legal) of the University	11
Theater, The University..... 13
Trustees, Board of........... 4
Tuition Fees................ 33
University of Notre Dame....	11
Pharmacy, Courses in.......160
Philosophy, Courses in.....162
Physical Laboratory........-48
Washington Hall .  ........ 13
Zoology, Courses in........172
It is desired that every Graduate receive a copy
of the Bulletin. The Faculty will therefore con-
sider it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus
■ changes, his .address.' '	--z	■’' ■ J;. ■~
On application to the President bulletins will be
sent to all who are interested in the work of the
University. / // .i- :	■
d