Series IV.
Number II.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
I T “3 1 9
1908-1909
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
October, 1908
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class mat-
ter, July 17, 1905-
The Ministry of Scholarship."
By the Rev. Gilbert P. Jennings, LL. D.
And 1 heard the voice of the Lord saying: Whom shall I send? and who
shall go for us? And I said: Lo, here am I, send me.—Is. vi, 18.
THRRB is something glorious in the idea of conse-
cration, in the vision of the prophet coming out of
Ramah to empty the horn of oil on the head of
David; of the Redeemer of the world in the Garden of
Olives bowing to the will of His Bather and drinking the
chalice of suffering; of the religious at the threshold of
life, like the discoverer of continents, emptying her treas-
ures at the feet of her Lord even before she knows the value
of them; of the young levite on his face before the altar
of supreme sacrifice, dedicating himself to God, his
portion forever.
Whether it be the son of Jesse or the last born of the
order of Melchisedec, wherever there is consecration
there is always conquest. Just in so far as life is con-
strained to some high purpose, harnessed to some divine
ideal, does it become rich beyond the impoverishment of
wealth, holy beyond the contamination of the world,
victorious beyond any chance of earthly defeat. By con-
secration every man becomes a priest, not perhaps of the
Holy of Holies, but of that outer court which is still a
sanctuary, in which he must lift up daily the offering of
his example, and daily preach the gospel he believes in
living words no man can contradict.
Some such consecration should take place in the
sanctuary of your hearts to-day. A conviction of power
and eager sense of duty should lift you up to the moun-
tain of immolation and fill you like Isaias with the
* Baccalaureate Sermon delivered at the University of Notre
Dame, June 14,1908.
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 3
enthusiasm of those who have seen the face of God and in
the glory of that ineffable vision are ready for any labor
and any sacrifice.
The world follows leaders; and those whom nature
and the advantages of educaton have endowed with
superior wisdom and experience are the logical guides of
their fellowmen. They are ordained by their opportun-
ities to a ministry of help and enlightenment that lifts
them to the place of power and authority. The world
looks to them for direction and counsel, and seeks the
law at their lips. In the face of this obvious and nat-
ural condition it is significant and ominous to know that
the great majority of those who are qualifying for the
arduous and responsible duties of leadership and who
will inevitably take their places at the head of every
social, intellectual and religious movement, are being
trained in institutions in which the sources of inspiration
are poisoned and the chair of truth usurped by the teach-
ers of scepticism and unbelief.
Never in the history of the world has there been such
a deification of human reason. God and prophecy and
miracle are put on trial and condemned. Never has
there been a baser sensuality, more laxity of the mar-
riage laws, a wider slaughter of the innocents, more
denial of the criteria of belief, more buffoonery in the
name of religion. The wealth of the world, the scholarship
of the world, the theatres of the world, the universities
of the world—all are pouring themselves out to swell the
ranks of the deniers of God,
If the leaders of the people deny God and disregard
His laws their followers will despise authority and serve
iniquity. Whatever leaders believe and teach and do,
the millions come to accept. No society can long endure
that abandons God. Sooner or later, the state ruled by
godless leaders will be torn from its moorings and
4 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
carried swiftly and helplessly to anarchy and ruin.
But even though the fires are still burning upon the
altars of paganism and are fed by the priests of doubt and
despair who go forth annually from these breeding places
of scepticism and unbelief, it must ever remain true that
“ the earth is the Tord’s,” and now as of old the cham-
pions of unbelief challenge the sons of God to their own
confusion. Shall the enemies of God hope to live and
prosper in our day when the prophecy of destruction is
fulfilled in Damascus, which has ceased to be a city and
is become ‘ ca ruinous heap of stones’ ’; when of the tem-
ple built on divine plans there is not left a stone upon a
stone; when Babylon is fallen and all the graven gods
therein broken and ground to powder; when Bgypt is
delivered to cruel masters and her spirit crushed;
brother pitted against brother, friend against friend and
city against city?
The salvation of the world is with the apostles of
truth. And that is why those doubly endowed by edu-
cation and the safeguards of a divinely established
religion, men in whom study, like the rod of Aaron, has
opened the springs of life and thought; men whose com-
panions are the wise and holy and whose meal is the
fruitage of the race; men whose hearts are anchored in
God, who wear justice as a helmet and modesty as a
shield, owe it to themselves and to their fellowmen to take
the place of leadership against the deniers of God who
in this world-temple of the Most High are calling upon
his creatures to abjure Him. Now as when David
championed the cause of Israel, they shall return with
the heads of their enemies who go to battle in the name
of God.
Bvery great movement for social and political reform
has been conceived in the minds and hearts of men who
in the schools learned the logic of principles as well as
Bulletin of the University of Notre. Dame 5
events. It must be ever so. Even when the actual
physical leadership is taken by others, the educated have
always been necessary to crystallize and formulate the
• ideas and grievances of the multitude.
Where are the great leaders of to-day—the champions
of the cause of God ? The ages of faith generated mar-
tyrs, confessors, doctors, soldiers and statesmen. Is our
vaunted progress so poor in the fruits of genius that we
are compelled to boast of the past if we boast at all?
Why is it that, with so many additional advantages, the
champions of truth and charity are not multiplied a
hundredfold ?
Is it because our Christian scholars are convinced that
a little learning is a dangerous thing that they can look
on unmoved at the mistaken and futile efforts of those
who try to sing and drum their way to the conquest of
souls divinely committed to themselves? Is it for the
same reason that the educated clergy and laity abandon
the field of journalism and leave the daily press and the
more pretentious periodicals to the folly and vagaries of
every prophet of evil, while the cause of truth is left
without advocates or defenders ? Is it the same reason
that surrenders every species of civic and social activity
to those who substitute philanthropy and humanitarian-
ism for the charity extolled by the Son of God ? Is this
the reason that every legal aid society, every social
centre, the regulation of the liquor traffic, and almost
every other reform, is left to influences which, if not
directly and purposely anti-Catholic, are dominated by a
spirit of pagan altruism and religious indifferentism ? Is
this the reason that the methods of the wardheeler and
the haunts of the cheap politician are more attractive
than the pursuits of honorable labor? Is this why the
great legal talent of the country is so often at the service
of lawlessness in high places, and why the priceless
€ Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
harvest of years of study and self-denial is sold in the
market to the highest bidder ?
The nobility and service of Christian scholarship
should not be forsworn for reasons so empty or so base.
Here is a place for consecrated leadership, for men who
have had the inspiration, companionship and example of
thousands of ambitious youths struggling to the sum-
mit of knowledge; who are the heirs of the Peters and
Johns, the Pauls and Gregories, the Augustines and
Loyolas, the Godfreys, O’Connells and Mores—the glory
‘as well as the fruit of their common mother. This leg-
acy of example and inspiration of a saintly ancestry the
Catholic scholar carries with him into the warfare which
began in Him whose guerdon, was to be not peace but
the sword.
Ideas and principles are pregnant. as motherhood.
Those who espouse them and advocate them rule the
world. There is no such thing as public opinion; if there
seems to be, it is only because the public clamors for
what it has been taught to believe. The race is swayed
and controlled by the few who think, by the men who,
with the power of originality superendowed by education,
see great things where others see only little things, think
strong thoughts and hold to them, say what every one
wants to say but lacks the ability to say, do what every-
one knows should be done but lacks the courage to do.
You must be these men. You are trained for leader-
ship. The world needs you. It has a right to the
knowledge and experience .and wisdom which you have
had the time and means and perseverance to acquire and
and with which like strong wine you have regaled your-
selves while the multitudes trod the winepresses in poverty
and patience. ‘ ‘ Bless the Lord, ye mountains and hills,”
was not spoken of the physical world alone, but of the
filii hominum—the sons of men—who by their natural

Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 7
•endowments, magnified a thousandfold by the advanta-
ges of education, tower above their fellows. And if the
mountains and hills vie with one another in voiceless but
eloquent rivalry for the kiss of divine love and approval,
how much more should not these giants of the race crowd
the altars of praise and sacrifice to lay the first fruits of
all their labors at the feet of their Master.
*
How majestic is the figure of the Christian leader, fill-
ing the eyes of a world with the glory of his presence,
thrilling its ears with the charm and compulsion of his
wordsr firing its soul with noble enthusiasms, freeing its
heart from the ache ;of unbelief. He brings the dead to
life and fills them with his own courage. Not everyone
can bend the bow of Ulysses. A Paul or a Bernard or a
Sorin is generated but once in an age, but each of them
has spurred into life thousands who but for them would
be unknown. One man estalished a knighthood which
epitomized its principles in the shibboleth, ‘ ‘ Loyalty to
Christ and the Church’ ’; but the sentiment invoked by
Henry the Bowler has inspired legions to throng the
ranks of chivalry for a thousand years.
And when we know that this pervading, multiplied
power of leadership is the fruit of scholarship, what is
the matter with so many of our university graduates,
that experienced and successful business men preach the
superiority of self-made men over college men? The
fault is certainly not in the rich opportunity and superior
'equipment of the college men. Hardship and poverty,
while they have their advantages, are not in themselves
passports to success. The trouble lies in the lack of
enthusiasm and energy. The ignorant succeed not
because they are ignorant but because they are filled with
enthusiasm. Enthusiasm without knowledge rises higher
than knowledge without enthusiasm. Coldness is the
great malady of the world. The man without enthusi-
8 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
asm, without ambitions, without some noble purpose in
life is dead. Whether he is buried now or twenty years
from now, as far as the world is concerned makes little
difference. No one can roll back the stone that impris-
ons the captive spirit “ housed in walls of flesh,” but
man himself. The guardians of knowledge may call
upon the dead to rise, but until the buried spirit itself
throws off the lethargy of sloth and indifference, it shall
stay forever shut in by doors of sense.
We are largely the arbiters of our own destiny. We
can not, it is true, go deeper than the foundations upon
which our faith and principles rest, or higher than the
call of the Infinite. But between these two, temptations
from without and selfishness from within lure us to mean
purposes. This is the rock upon which the resolves of
Christian manhood must not be broken. Like the Son
of Man we are upborne to the Mountain of Decision and
shown the world. The fault is our own, and the conse-
quences too, if we do not put Satan and all the allure-
ments of pleasure and sin behind us, and go resolutely to.
our appointed work.
It is not the fault of institutions like this that their
products are not taken at their face value. So many
have proved recreant to duty, insensible to the require-
ments of their high estate, and in the mask of scholar-
ship vied in trickery and deceit with knaves and degen-
erates that every true man must vindicate his title to a
place in the ranks of those who deserve the respect and
praise of the world. No university can make you more
than your own sterling manhood will permit you to be
made. The real and vital benefits and promotions in
life are those which every man confers upon himself.
Wherever educated men have impressed themselves on
others it was because they were fundamentally manly
men—honest, sincere and earnest.
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
9
Too many of our potential leaders are chained to the
car of Moloch—their splendid talents and the fruit of all
their advantages wasted in the pursuit of material wealth
and success. They bend to their task with merciless
self-action, whipping and goading themselves in the race
with unknown rivals who are with equal cruelty merci-
lessly lashing themselves to out-distance them. It is when
we see this that we realize that material edifices are not
the only temples from which the money changers should
be driven out. Souls are primarily the tabernacles of the
Most High, and their desecration is not more pardonable
because the despoilers are also the despoiled.
He who consecrates himself to higher ideals than
those of the world may be called a visionary, but he can
afford to be called a visionary by those who have never
heard the voice that calls him or never seen the light that
leads him on. Things of the spirit are immeasurably
greater and more desirable than things of matter and
sense. He who cultivates the nobler things of mind and
heart is rich. Only the wicked and the ignorant are
poor. If you only knew it, your fortune is made now.
The scholar hangs the walls of memory with the riches
of the world, and this palimpsest gives back its treasures
without measure and without number. Whether a Greek
slave like Epictetus, or on the throne of the Caesars like
Marcus Aurelius, or in the cell of the recluse like the
Angel of the Schools, the wise and holy alone are rich.
And inalienably rich because their riches are in them-
selves. Nor are they impoverished when they lavish all
they have upon others. They give to others only to
enrich themselves the more. No artist ever put on canvas
the wealth of imagery that flooded his own soul. No
musician ever expressed all the enchanting harmony thaf
ravished himself. The Bourdaloues and Massillons con-
ceived a wealth of meaning and strength of conviction
10 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
which even their matchless oratory failed to awaken in
others. So the wise and holy who live for others con-
ceive a joy and satisfaction which, with all their gener-
osity, they can not give away., Sacrifice is the fulness
of life, and they who give most receive most. He who
gives nothing till he dies, gives nothing at all.
While for you this day of service is just the beginning,
and while your opportunities for giving are more and
larger now than they ever will be again, you also will
come to realize, as we realize, that the verdict of our
lives at the end of every day obliges us to confess that
we have not lived yet. We are still far from the goal of
our hopes and our duty. The more we labor the more
we grow. Only when man shall “roll up the sky like a
hide’ ’ shall there be an end to labor and the aching of
desire. If any day could find us satisfied, there could
be no to-morrow. Onward and upward to death. Our
best to-day is our stepping-stone for our best to-morrow.
And when all our ships come in, and you know how
you dream of the things you hope to carry with you
when the port is reached—wealth, honors, friends—there
will be one thing that will enrich you without all the
rest, and all the rest without it will leave you poor:
unsullied Christian manhood, the friendship and
approval of God.
In the meantime be not so enrapt in the glow and hope
of the future, ‘ ‘filling cups with yellow sunset dreaming
it is wine,” nor dwell so complacently on the past, that
poor despised to-day—the day of opportunity—passes
unheeded and unharvested.
How your Alma Mater—this miracle of educational
achievement—like the proud mother of many children,
must lift her pure face to God to-day and out of her
heart of hearts praise and glorify Him for the saintly
lives that builded themselves into the very fibre of her
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 11
being, who humbled themselves that she might be
exalted, who were hungry that she might feast in the-
richness of this day, naked that she might put on splendor
and magnificence like a garment !
You are the fruit of her womb, the last born in the
line of Christian scholarship. To-day she comes with
you to the altar of consecration. She has a right to
expect, and the world has a right to expect, that you
will go forth from this sanctuary as the representatives
not only of her wisdom and inspiration, but of the sacri-
fices and travail of those apostolic spirits who spent their
lives gladly that you might inherit the glory of this day.
To you we look for that dedicated service, that conscious-
Christian leadership, that glorious representation of the
highest Catholic ideals for which I have been pleading,
and for which .the whole world is waiting. It is true
now as in the days of Lliah the son of Jesse—the Lord
regards not the countenance of the man nor the height
of his stature, but what he is in himself. Like the last
born of the sons of Jesse, the Spirit of God may pass-
Kliah and Abinadab, and all your elders, to lift you, the
youngest born, to the place of destiny. So that when
the prophet comes with the horn of oil he shall say:
“This is He!”
And in that day when the Master of all men shall need
the clean of heart and tongue to speak His message to-
a perverse and impenitent people, when He shall seek
the man worthy to wear the crown of consecrated lead-
ership, and when, like Isaias, with lips touched and pur-
ified by the coal from the altar of love and sacrifice, you
hear the voice of the Lord saying: “Whom shall I send?
and who shall go for us? ” and you shall say: “ Lo, here
am I, send me! ”
The Young Man in Public Life.
By the Hon. Charles P. Neill.
I CAN not and I would not venture to try to express
to you the feelings that move me to-night as I stand
upon this platform. But I say truthfully and sin-
cerely that I feel embarrassed and altogether unworthy
of the praise that Father Cavanaugh has just bestowed
upon me in his introductory remarks. He has spoken
to you of my study of Greek; but I not only learned
Greek from Father Cavanaugh: I learned other things—
better even than Greek; and his eulogy simply reflects
that splendid type of friendship which sees in large
perspective the modest virtues of the friends he loves.
I am not to be introduced as a Commencement Orator;
I am no orator; but after nearly a quarter of a century’s
absence I come back to the students of this University
from that field of activity in which the storm and stress
of modern social life finds its most violent expression, to
say a few practical words to these young men about to
go forth into that same field to bear the heat and burden
and conflict of the world.
I wish to impress on them, first of all, some things
that they already know. I want to repeat to them that
they live under the most advanced form of government,
and .under the most advanced development of social
institutions that the world has ever known. These
represent the results of the fresh, unceasing, bitter and
costly struggle of century after century and generation
on generation of men. They represent the ideal about
which the hopes and aspirations and dreams of men have
* Baccalaureate Address delivered at the University of Notre
Dame, June 17, 1908.
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 13
always centred; they represent, in other words, con-
ditions of society in which the ideal is that all privilege,
with its corollary of oppression, should be swept aside,
and that there should be equal opportunity for every
man born into the world to develop within himself all the
traits of character, and all the qualities of mind and
heart and soul with which his Creator has endowed him.
It is true that in the concrete we are very far from
having attained the realization of that ideal. Perhaps,
like the ideal of Christian perfection, we may never
attain it in this life. Yet, I think, it is within the
bounds of conservatism to say that we are nearer to it
than the world has ever been before.
But what, in our country, does quality of opportunity
mean? It means, first of all, the opportunity for educa-
tion. It does not mean that every man shall have the
opportunity to attain wealth or place or power. The
best and truest and finest opportunity is the opportunity
for education, for the development of the mind and the
soul of man.
Now, consider this ideal for which we strive: and
realizing that we are nearer to it to-day than the world
has ever been, ask yourselves; to how many of us has
the real equality of opportunity come? To how many
of us has the opportunity for a full and rich and deep
education been presented?
Our land is dotted with educational institutions, from
the simplest and humblest school house to the best
equipped university. Every year millions of little
children start out with that education apparently open
to them; but how many hundreds of thousands of them,
in this land of opportunity, have never been able to see
inside the door of the school house? Read the statistics
of the various grades of the public or of the parochial
schools, and see how greatly the number of those who
u
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
did enter is decreased. At the ages of eleven, or twelve,
or thirteen, or fourteen, grim necessity plucks them out
from the ranks of schoolboys and schoolgirls, and puts
upon them the burden of the bread winners; and to
them the opportunity of further education is denied.
Tew indeed of those who enter the grammar school ever
enter the high school: fewer still of those that reach the
high school ever enter college. And so it conies, young
men of Notre Dame, that you who are at college,
represent an exceptional fulness of opportunity; you are
among the few to whom has been given that real
-equality of opportunity for which our government and
our institutions stand, and toward which the world has
struggled and fought for ages.
Now, how do you receive that opportunity; how do
you get it? I suppose none of you fails to realize the
fact that you are here as the debtors of your parents.
Dull indeed and ungrateful would be the heart that
would fail to appreciate that. And I suppose that in
every college in the United States the number of those
students who are there through some sacrifice—painful
sacrifies in some cases it may be—on the part of their
parents, is larger than the number of those whose
parents can well afford the expense.
But beyond all that, there is no college, there is no
institution of collegiate or higher rank in the United
States, which could be supported or maintained solely
by the fees of the students. Our colleges aud univer-
sities are oflhree classes: there are those that are State
-endowed, or State supported; to these the humblest
citizen contributes his mite for the support of such
institutions—the citizen whose own children may never
see inside its walls. Then we have richly endowed
private institutions. Such endowments run into the
millions, and represent the donations, larger or smaller,
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
15
of men who from a sense of loyalty and love have given
that which they can afford to spare for so noble a
purpose. And we have a third class of institutions—
the institutions represented by Notre Dame, and,
practically, by every other Catholic college of the United
States. These institutions, like the others, could not
begin to maintain themselves upon what our parents are
able to pay them for what they offer to us. And these
institutions, too, are endowed; and their endowments
too continue for year after year; but their endowments
consist of the daily sacrifice of the men who are giving
their life and their toil, and sacrificing their all in order
that we may have this priceless opportunity for educa-
tion under Catholic auspices. As a matter of plain fact,
if the colleges of the United States were dependent for
support on the fees of their students alone, education
would be the privilege only of the very rich. And I
venture to say that the majority of you—and certainly
I—would never have known any education above that
of the common grammar school.
You start out therefore in life, young men, social
debtors; debtors not only to your parents, as I have
said, but heavy social debtors to the society and to the
men that have made the opportunity possible for you to
acquire this education of the highest kind.
What are you going to do with this opportunity? Of
course, the first fundamental — the first thing you must
do — is to make of yourselves decent, self-respecting,
God-fearing men. Go out into the world* and live up
to the ideals and standards you have learned here; make
your individual lives correspond with the opportunities
that have been given you; see to it that you become
splendid types of the Catholic man.
But I venture to say that even when you have at-
tended to this,—when your private life and your family
16
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
life are all that the ideal Catholic man’s personal and
family life should be, you are yet far from the ideal man.
You are yet a good way from repaying the debt of heavy
obligation that you owe to society at large.
You have another duty—not a private or family duty,
but a civic one. The government and the institution
under which you live, under which you have had these
opportunities, did not come by accident, nor did they
come easily: they came after long centuries of fighting,
in which much treasure and much blood was spent that
they might be attained. And your first civic duty is to
see that you do your part toward maintaining the
purity and the stability of that government and those
institutions; that you stand for a decent, honest, civic
life; that you go out and take off* your coats, so to speak,
to help your fellow-men, and not so as to have them feel
or say of you that you are an exclusive set; that the
college men, and the men of opportunity can not mix
in politics; that they can not get out into the hurly-burly,
and the undignified role of politics. Undignified role of
politics!—is the right of governing yourself—for which
generations of men have gladly laid down their lives—to
be called undignified ! Is it too much to ask that you get
out into the thick of the fight that your free government
and institutions be preserved, that your civic life
should be decent and honest ?
This is not easy; for let me say to you that to do that
will require, if not quite the same kind of heroism that
would be required to go out and fight for those institu-
tions, at least a distinct type of heroism; it will require a
firmness that unfortunately few of us possess. For mere
physical courage is one of the most common virtues of
humanity. Many of our Catholic men, for example,
rvould go out and lay down their lives rather than deny
their faith. But they will not always be as devoted as
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 17
they should.be to the performance of their civic duties.
When you go out into your civic life, and fight for the
principles of decent and honest government, you must be
prepared, if necessary, to stand up against your friends,
to break friendships of long standing, and to sacrifice
the opportunity for power and profit, in order that you
may do what is right and honorable and upright in your
public and civic life; and the number of men who can do
this is even less than the number of men who are willing
to go out and face the cannon’s mouth in defence of the
institutions of their country. For, as a matter of fact,
governments and countries and free institutions have not
been destroyed and lost through violence and through
war : they have been lost through corruption, and because
those to whom those privileges had been transmitted
were unworthy to maintain and to enjoy them. Now, to
continue practically, we might ask ourselves, where
does this duty begin ? It begins in your own ward. At-
tend the ward caucus and see that you are represented
by decent men; see that your city government is clean
and decent, that your state government is clean and
decent; and see, gentlemen, as a last duty, that your
national government is also clean and decent.
Now just let us consider for a moment what this
matter of maintaining decent government means.
Remember that after all, our institutions, and all that
we are proud of in this country, are but an experiment ;
and, historically speaking, a new experiment, of a com-
paratively short time. Democratic government is very
old. The Greek cities and states, for example, were
splendid specimens of democracy—modified indeed by the
fact that a large proportion of the residents were slaves;
but in so far as they had the rights of citizenship, they
governed themselves directly. The Greek states were
governed by a democracy in which every man had a voice
18 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
to determine how that government should be conducted
and expressed his view directly. This of course is im-
possible in a larger state; and government by the people
must have perished from the earth, if we had not devised
the system of representation. We therefore govern our-
selves to-day, not directly, not by expressing our indi-
vidual views as to what shall or shall not obtain, but by
selecting our representative in government. And so you
have one who represents a hundred thousand, or a hun-
dred and fifty thousand, or two hundred thousand, or
two hundred and fifty thousand men, one who represents
their will, and the sentiment for which they stand. And
when through cowardice or corruption, or for personal
ends, he fails to do that for which he is sent there, he
attacks the very foundation of popular government. You
no longer govern yourselves; but you are governed by
the man who bought him, or the interests he may repre-
sent. And he is a greater and more dangerous traitor to
your institutions, to your country and to his country
than is the man who sold out your army; and he is a
more dangerous man—and I say this deliberately—than
the anarchist who goes out with the torch and dagger,
and attempts to overturn the society in which he lives:
for the anarchist can not overturn it. We will never lose
the form of free government in that way: the attempt to
so overturn it outright and to destroy its form, would
bring out a million defenders in a moment. The danger
lies in the fact that the form may be preserved when the
spirit is gone; and that we may go on believing that we
still have self-government and free institutions when we
have a dead form.
It is true that we live in an age of unrest. It is prob-
able that in the lifetime of most of us we may see con-
siderable changes: we see them already. No one can
fail to note that everywhere to-day there is deep social
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 19
unrest. We see it in Russia, for example, expressing
itself in fierce and savage outbreaks, in Germany in the
bitter struggle against socialism, in Bngland in another
form in the shape of the Labor movement. We see it in
the United States to-day—in a state not eighty miles
from here—a bitter struggle between representatives of
two entirely different shades of thought, with different
ambitions, and different views as to what constitutes the
correct and model form of government for the progress of
our society.
Now you all appreciate and realize at once that the un-
rest and struggle going on is world-wide. We can not
read the daily papers without realizing that. But you
also realize that the world is old; that the struggle which
you are seeing to-day differs very slightly—far less than
at first thought you might believe—from the struggle of
centuries ago. And you may see to-day that, after all,
it is a working class struggle; it is sordid; it is material;
it is really a struggle of the ‘ ‘have nots’ ’ against the
“haves.” Let it be so; so every struggle from the
beginning has been. And howsoever we may disguise
or try to disguise it, short of the possession of a certain
modicum of material comfort, there is neither chance nor
opportunity of spiritual and mental developement.
There must first be some degree of material comfort.
A gentleman said to me a few days ago: “Oh, after
all, it is easy to preach discontent; we want this uproar
stopped; we want peace in this country.” Well and
good; but I can only speak from the experience I have
of the life that I know and see around me; and so long
as you have little children of tender years forced to bear
the burden of bread-winners, and so long as mothers,
with the cares of home, are forced into the factories, the
mines and the mills, and men compelled to toil for
x unnaturally long periods of labor in the heat and the
20
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
grime and the burden of the industrial shops that
represent our industrial prosperity—so long as these
things go on, life means to these classes merely the
elements of an animal existence, and so long will the
seed of discontent be sown, and the agitator find a ready
response in the hearts of the audience he addresses.
But is this struggle as sordid as it seems? You may
say it is a far cry from the slave of antiquity, or the serf
of medieval life, to the modern wage-earner conducting a
strike for a higher wage, or a shorter working day. But,
young men, these are both simply the aspects of one and
the same struggle, world-wide and always continued.
At bottom, that struggle for personal freedom of which
you have read in history, and which has thrilled and
inspired you, was a struggle for better conditions of
living—for more material comfort, as a right.
Now that whole struggle, that probably seemed to
you political, was at bottom a struggle to get control of
the government, that the government might be made to
bring about a condition of society in which there should
be a wider and a better distribution of the products of
the toil of society; in which there might be a real
equality of opportunity} and in which every man might
in return for his toil secure such material recompense as
would enable him and his family to live a life of comfort
befitting human beings.
Again, you may say, the doctrine of materialism ! Not
at all, not for a moment! The fact that we are brought
here to-night—the fact that I have gone out from this
institution, and that you are going out from it, the fact
that education has been yours and mine, the fact that to
us has been assigned the proud possibility of developing
every faculty of mind and heart and soul with which God
has endowed us—all this has been possible by the com-
bined efforts of your parents and mine, and the efforts of
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 21
the good Fathers and Brothers who have sacrificed them-
selves here daily in order that we might be enabled to go
without earning our living until the present time.
Now, one word in conclusion. I speak to you, young
men, as one that comes not from academic groves, but
from that part of the world in which the struggle is
fiercest—from that thick field of activity in which the
social struggle shows itself most keenly, and perhaps
most sordidly. But I have had the opportunity to judge
the various systems of education that are being tried
in this country. I have been out, and I know some-
thing of what you young men must meet.
A few years ago a distinguished New York million-
aire, who prided himself on the fact that he is a self-
made man, made it a point never to take a college-bred
man into his establishment, on the ground that colleges
do not equip men for success. The best reply that was
made to him was by a distinguished man who repre-
sented success in every sense. He said that, “The
college has done something better than that: it teaches
the young man to realize that what this man considered
success is not success at all.” If there is one thing that
the last few years of exposures in the United States have
done it is this: they have made mere wealth vulgar.
And never again in your lifetime will the mere million-
aire be held up before the American youth as the ideal
of success. When you go out realize that whether you
acquire power or wealth or position, or not, if you stand
true to what you have been taught here, if you stand by
the ideals that have been set up for you here in your
later days, you will say that you have success, whatever
the world may say.
One more thought from the alumni meeting this morn-
ing. It was well suggested there that our reunion
meetings might have a double purpose. We might come
22
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
back for old fellowship’s sake to mingle with the friends
we have known before, and keep up that spirit of fellow-
ship and brotherhood which ought to prevail among all
the sons of Alma Mater. Let every student of the
University come back to it one day; and as he sees the
old boys and the teachers, and feels the inspiration of
the old surroundings, let him go apart and ask himself
the question: Have I lived and acted true to the ideals
and teachings that I got here years ago ? And if he has,
let him go out refreshed and inspired to continue in the
same line of life. If he has not, let him draw fresh
inspiration from that sacred fount; and let him go out
with the old unsullied ideals again and with those high
purposes which all the young men who leave here
to-morrow will carry with them.
Religious Instruction the Basis of Morality.
THE address of the learned and eloquent rector of
the Catholic University was profoundly impressive.
His historical review of this question has shown
us the fathers of the Republic affirming out of their
wisdom and their experience the same principles that
the Church, through her theologians and her pastors has
affirmed with uninterrupted persistence from the begin-
ning. The whole thesis of this evening may be summed
up in the words of the Father of our Country: “Reason
and experience both forbid us to expect that national
morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principles.”
What is this declaration of Washington but another way
of stating the position we take to-day, that the heart
of culture is culture of the heart; that the soul of
improvement is improvement of the soul; that the
making of a life is incomparably more important than
the making of a living; that great epochs, creative
epochs have invariably been epochs of strong religious
belief; that faith watches over the cradles of nations,
while unbelief doubts and argues above their graves.
The most powerful force in the world is religion. The
mainspring of all loft)' action in every age of the world
has been religion. The great civilizer has been religion,
which first fastened on the scattered families of men and
wrought them into the primitive social unity. The great
educator has been religion, which took hold of savage
tribes, strong in the strength of the earth, and bent their
stubborn necks to the yoke of obedience and restraint.
* Address delivered by the Very Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
President of the University of Notre Dame, at the public meeting
of the Catholic Educational Association, held in Cincinnati, Ohio,
July, 1908.
24
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
The primary function of the Church, of course, is to
make men holy rather than cultured, but because in
the accomplishment of her high mission she has felt
constrained to invoke all the aids and instrumentalities
by which men may be influenced for their betterment,
the Church is found in history to have been a school of
music and poetry and eloquence and painting and
architecture. A famous art critic has made a list of the
twelve greatest pictures, and every picture of these
supreme twelve pro trays a religious subject. The most
beautiful structures ever reared by the genius of man
are the cathedrals of Europe .The most exquisite music
has been woven around the words of the Mass, and so
the great educator from the beginning has been religion.
The great colonizer has been religion, which has done
over the whole earth what it did over our own America
—gathered up little groups of men, torn them away
from their homes, planted them in fresh soil under alien
skies where they might find the liberty denied them at
home to worship God according to conscience, “to build
their own altars, to light their own sacrificial fires, to
utter in fuller freedom those petitions for help and
strength and consolation that in a hundred tongues and
in temples of a thousand shapes men every day send
up to God.”
Is it any wonder, therefore, that religion, which
enters into every aspect of human life, should be so
large an element in the training of youth? Is it any
wonder that in this new country, where so many of the
problems of life must be solved anew, there has gone up
from men of faith a cry for religious education?
Religion alone can furnish a motive strong enough
to make and to keep men moral. There never was since
the beginning of time a wholesome condition of morality
in any country that did not owe its existence to some
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
25
sort of religious belief. The profound conviction that
acts have consequences in the next world as well as in
this, the firm faith that every man is accountable to a
higher power for all that he does or omits to do, this it
is that little by little, in the course of centuries, refined
away the savagery of men and brought them within the
pale of restraint and civilization. But all these cen-
turies of discipline have not eradicated the master
passions of men, and without the restraining influence
of religion men would inevitably fall back into a con-
dition of moral chaos. No substitute that philosophers
have yet devised can take the place of religion. The
expedient that has been most widely accepted by the
men, if not the women, of our day is naturalism. Look
about you and see the vast herds of men who are living
purely natural lives; who go through weeks and months
and years with no thought of prayer; who resort to
their temples only when self-interest, or society, or
curiosity, or custom summons them thither; whose
norm of conduct, to state it at its highest, is only the
natural conscience, and, to state it at its truest, is a
more or less shadowy sense of respectability. What we
Catholics understand by the grace of God—of all this the
natural man has no conception. He does not believe
in a personal devil, and he has only a vague notion of an
offended God. He has no sense of sin. He realizes
that he has strong passions, but these, he says, are
natural, and he will follow the way of the world; he
will gratify them to his heart's content so that only his
health be not seriously impaired, so that only he be not
killed or imprisoned, so that only he escapes public
disgrace or social ostracism by his friends. He prides
himself, and, in rare instances, when the elements are
happily mixed in him, he may lead a life at least out-
wardly respectable. But more often this man who
26
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
talked so bravely of self-control and will-power is swept
away on the whirlwind of passion. It is avarice, and
he is cast into prison as a forger; or he goes through
life wearing the shame of the defaulter and hearing even
in his dreams the curse of the poor man whom his
avarice has beggared. It is lust, and his pathway is
strewn with evil memories and broken hearts, and
public and private scandal. Death claims his wife,
or a beloved child as a victim, and he sits by the open
coffin dumb with grief or gasping incoherent pleadings
into the ear of the dead. Business ventures fail him
and, left to struggle hopelessly with a strain which
tortures his mind and fills him with despair, he leaps
into the river at midnight or sends a bullet crashing
through his brain. He dies an evil death, and leaves a
tainted and dishonored name as a heritage to his family.
Such, then, is naturalism as it works itself out to its
logical result in the conduct of men. It is the philosophy
of death, not life; the philosophy of failure, not of
success. It holds no joy for humanity in this life, and
no hope for humanity in the next.
There are other gentle philosophers who would ask
men to cultivate morals because in the long run it will
be for the good of the race. Live wholesome lives, say
the Positivists, because a thousand years from to-day
humanity will be better for your self-restraint. We are
expected to believe that when the rush and tumult of
passion comes upon a man he will pause in his purpose
to remember that in the ages to come, a generation of
which he knows nothing, and in which he has only a
speculative interest, will profit by his abstinence; but
every student who knows the heart of man is aware that
in the hour of temptation humanity is likely to ask,
with Sir Boyle Roche: “What has posterity done for
us?“ Let the pale-faced and anemic philosopher who
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 27
has never felt the rush of red blood in his veins remind
himself of the generations whose welfare depend upon
his present action; let him retire virtuously to some
quiet spot and regale his soul with that thin delight,
but for the great living masses of humanity you want a
more vital influence, a stronger motive, a more com-
pelling restraint.
Still other gentle philosophers will tell us that virtue
is its own reward, that moral conduct needs only to be
seen in order to be loved; that culture and the refine-
ments of life will make men love the good and practice it.
A few years ago there stood before the world a brilliant
young man, whose genius, had it been properly directed,
might have shed light and strength upon the race of men.
He was truly a lord of language. He played upon the
resources of our English tongue as a master charms forth
undreamed-of melodies from the heart of a great organ.
He was the apostle of sestheticism, and, while his eccen-
tricities excited some derision, his genius, his exquisite
refinement of speech and manner, were such as to bear
down the ridicule and to win for him the admiration of
men. He believed in salvation through the gospel of
culture, he chanted in glorious language the dirge of
dead religions; he summoned humanity to lift its face
to the new Sun that was to usher in the great day of
emancipation from the ancient and worn-out creeds.
• The day of emancipation never came, but instead came
a day when that man of genius stood in prison stripes
behind the prison bars, flung there by an outraged world
because of unspeakable crimes against morality. The
people who would save humanity through the gospel of
culture, who would induce men to be sober and chaste,
who would lift men out of the gutter by giving them
social ambitions and teaching them the habits of edu-
cated people, ought to bear in mind that neither amuse-
28 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
merits nor social ambitions ever kept a man from the
grog-shop or the brothel when he wanted to go there.
You can not fight liquor or lust in the soul with magic
lanterns, or even by clean clothes and nice table manners.
On the other hand, religion has from the beginning
inspired men to virtue and restrained them from vice.
It was she who, in the morning of history, developed
the human conscience by pointing with flaming sword
beyond the skies, by reminding man perpetually of the
unknown and mysterious, by warning him of the sleep-
less eye of God that sees man’s acts and man’s heart,
and by announcing justice and judgment in the day of
final accounting. Not all the laws of civilization could
prevent robbery and urge men to patient labor, without
the power of religion behind them; not all the literatures
of the world could cheer the heart of sorrow or charm
away despair from those who suffer. Look upon the
poor woman dying in pain and poverty; whisper words
of faith and hope into her ear, and observe how her face
lights up and her heart is cheered and strengthened.
Now, suppose we repeated for her all that is to be found
in the Greek poets and philosophers; all the wonderful
things we have found in the tangled mazes of human
thought; what consolation would we have brought her?
Philosophy and culture are good enough for the easy
chair and the day of health and prosperity, but for the
sorrowing and afflicted, for the vast heaving masses of
humanity with all the cark and care of life upon them,
one act of faith, one whisper of hope, one smoldering
spark of divine love is incomparably better than all the
subtle speculations of drawing-room philosophers. What
do they know of life in its redness? From the depths of
their easy chairs they do not see the battleground of the
world—the millions of men and women who bear their
heavy burdens with patience, almost with gladness,
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 29
“weaving beautiful tapestries of virtue on the looms of
sorrow and with the white hands of pain/’ young
people standing on slippery ground, compelled to choose
daily between virtuous suffering on the one hand and
some alluring form of sin on the other; feeling the pangs
of poverty, trembling in the clutch of disease, conscious
always that by turning away to a career of sin they
might escape these horrors; but conscious, too, of the
dignity and the destiny of their immortal souls, turning
steadfastly away from evil, never dreaming of surren-
dering their soul to the demands of the body. And the
man of discernment, as he looks on these scenes, recog-
nizes in them a heroism as worthy of eternal remem-
brance as the martyrs of any age of the Church, and the
angels of God, as they lean over the battlements of
Heaven, see nothing in all the earth or sky one-half so
beautiful as the patient lives of the poor, and now they
understand why to the poor in spirit is promised the
Kingdom of Heaven, for Christ lives on eternally in
these Christ-like lives.
This, then, is the explanation of the cry that men of
faith have sent up for religious education. And if ever
a cry had the ring of sincerity in it, it is this cry. The
test of sincerity is sacrifice. Now, there are a
million children in the parish schools of this country,
and the annual cost of educating them can not
fall short of fifteen millions of dollars. Do you
realize what these figures mean? They mean that our
people, out of their poverty and their faith have, in
obedience to a conscientious scruple, upreared a system
of schools at a cost which staggers the imagination. If
we could make use of the public schools and divert
these millions into colleges and universities, we should
be able to establish each year a university as richly
endowed as the University of Chicago, and in half a
30
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
century we should have such schools in every State of
the Union. And, while we in America are carrying on
this mighty struggle, we find comfort and encouragement
in the noble fight that the Father of the faithful on the
banks of the Tiber is making for this same cause. Let
no one mistake the meaning of the contest in France that
has forced her best sons and daughters from home and
driven them to seek refuge in the ends of the earth.
The petty statesmen who are busying themselves in
the destruction of a great nation began with unerring
instinct by attacking the religious schools, and the Holy
Father, guided by the grace of God and the traditions
of the Christian ages, rests in hope for the regeneration
and the life of that nation on the work of the Catholic
schools. When the petty politicians turned away from
their drugs and their cosmetics long enough to exercise
their wrath on pious priests and consecrated Sisters,
the Holy Father looked beyond concordats and past
parliaments to a new French people, instructed in their
faith, and politely declined to be terror stricken. When
they said to him, “We will take away the salaries from
your priests and your teachers and reduce them to the
level of stable-boys and lackeys/' he answered: “You
can not quench the star of Catholic truth; you can not
starve the God of the Bucharist.” When they said:
“We will seize your great churches and your exquisite
cathedrals and turn them into restaurants and theaters,”
he said, “Let the priests of France go out into the
mountains and die with their people, as the priests of
Ireland did; let the blue canopy be their school and the
rough rock their pulpit, but so long as time shall endure
the children of the Church shall be fed and strengthened
by Catholic teaching.” When they said to him, “It is
time to banish the Christian faith and to get rid of the
Christian idea,” when with horrible blasphemy, they
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 31
said, “We have driven Jesus Christ out of the army, and
the hospitals, and the courts of justice, and now we
must drive Him out of the country altogether/' he said,
“Why so hot, little men? Why so hot? When your
fury will have spent its force, like many another gust of
wind in her history, the everlasting Church of God will
be teaching your children and supplying an anti-toxin
to the poison you have injected into their veins. When
your miserable imitation republic shall have gone its
way to the Limbo where languish the persecuting
bigotries and tyrannies of all time; when for your sins
against liberty La Belle France, the eldest daughter of
the Church, shall be in bondage to Germany, or, perhaps,
Japan, the Bride of Christ, immortal with divine immor-
tality, shall be singing perpetual requiems around your
grave." With Pius X. we rest our hope in the Christian
schools. Let us sprinkle them bounteously over our
glorious country, whose charter of perpetuity is in the
intelligence and morality of her people. When the
stranger asks us what we are doing to solve the problems
that torment our nation—problems of atheism, and
socialism, and public morality—let us point to the ranks
of the school children, passing in quiet and orderly file
under the kindly eye of our consecrated teachers, and
let us say to the stranger: “We are answering these
problems in flesh and blood." Let us upbuild our
Christian colleges. Let their domes and spires rear
their cross-crowned heads high over the dwelling places
of men, and over their portals let us write in letters of
gold these words, which interpret their mission and give
the keynote of their meaning to the world: “What doth
it profit a man if he gain the whole world and suffer the
loss of his soul?"