Series V	’	: Published' Quarterly by
Number 1	' V ; ’ : ,	The University
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
1908-9
Entered as Second-class Matter in the Ppstofficeat ।
Notre Dame, Indiana, July 17, 1905	.	,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame, Indiana
Series V.
Number 1
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL CATALOGUE
1908-1909
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
July, 1909
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter
July 17,1905
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
WO S	CALENDAR FOR 1909 - 10.
1909.
SEPTEMBER 7.
8, 9.
19.
Entrance Examinations.
Preparatory School opens.
Colleges open.
Reading of University Regulations in all
the Halls.
OCTOBER	7.	Examinations of Conditioned Students.
	13.	Founder’s Day. No Classes.
	29.	Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
NOVEMBER	1.	Feast of all Saints. No Classes.
2	, 3.	Bi-Monthly examinations.
	25.	Thanksgiving Day. No Classes.
DECEMBER	2.	President’s Day. No. Classes.
	4.	The William B. Breen Medal Orations.
	8.	Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No
17,	18.	classes. Bi-Monthly Examinations.
	19.	Christmas Vacation Begins.
1910.		
JANUARY	6.	Colleges open.
FEBRUARY	6.	State Oratorical Contest.
	22.	Washington’s Birthday. No classes. Pre-
27,	28.	sentation of Flag by the Senior Class. Bi-Monthly Examinations.
	17.	St. Patrick’s Day. No Classes.
	19.	St. Joseph’s Day. No Classes.
MARCH	27.	Easter. No Easter Vacation.
	28.	Easter Monday. No Classes.
APRIL 27,	29.	Bi-Monthly Examinations.
MAY	20.	Latest Date for Handing in Prize Essays and
	30.	Graduating Theses in all the Colleges. Decoration Day. No Classes.
JUNE	1.	( The Patrick T. Barry Medal Recitations.
6,	11.	( The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations. Examination of Candidates for Graduation.
	12.	Baccalaureate Sermon.
13,	14.	General Examinations.
	15:	Commencement. Bachelor’s Orations. Com-
	16.	mencement Address, 8:00 P. M. Graduation Exercises, 8:00 A. M.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Chancellor.
REV. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.,
Treasurer.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Director of Studies.
Rev. TIMOTHY R. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline
REV. JOHN B. SCHIRER, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Religion.
Bro. ALBAN, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Special English.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Special Philosophy.
Rev. TIMOTHY R. MURPHY, C. S. C.,	.
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology and Geology.
Rev. JOHN BERNARD SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. MICHAEL MATTHIAS OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Debating and Oratory.
Rev. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Botany.
Rev. GEORGE JOSEPH MARR, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
Political Economy and History.
Rev. JOHN TALBOT SMITH, LL. D.,
Lecturer on English Literature.
BRO. BASIL, C. S. C., *
Director of the Department of Music.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.
JAMES FARNHAM EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
Librarian.
A
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
** WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
।	Law.
MARTIN MCCUE, M. S.,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.
*Died Feb. II, 1909.
’ *Leave of absence during igo8-’og.
TIMOTHY EDWARD HOWARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Drawing.
JEROME JOSEPH GREEN, M. E. E. E.,
Electrical Engineering and Physics.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
. Mathematics.
GALLITZIN FARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
Law.
ANDREW ANDERSON,
Law.
SEUMAS MacMANUS,
Lecturer on English Literature.
MICHAEL J. SHEA, A. M.,
History.
ARTHUR LUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
ROBERT LEE GREEN, Ph. G.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
. CHARLES PETERSON, A. M.,
German.
GEORGE SPIESS, A. B.,
Elocution.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B., B. S. A.,
Architecture.
KNOWLES B. SMITH, E. M„
Mining Engineering.
EDWARD HERMANN SCHWAB, LL. M.,
Law.
ROY METZGER, A. B., LL. B.,
Lecturer on Legal Bibliography.
GUSTAVO L. TREVINO, M. E. E. E.,
Assistant in Physics and Electricity.
JOSEPH LANTRY, C. E.,
Geodesy and Surveying.
JOHN BERNARD BERTELING, M. D.,
Attending Physician.
WILLIAM BUDD KELLEY,
Shopwork.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL.
REV. JAMES FRENCH, C. S. C.
REV. GEORGE O’CONNOR, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL.
REV. DOMINIC O’MALLEY, C. S. C.
REV. WALTER LAVIN, C. S. C.
REV. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL.
REV. JOHN FARLEY, C. S. C.
REV. PATRICK DALTON, C. S. C.
REV. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
BRO. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
BRO. HUGH, C. S. C.
BRO. CELESTINE, C. S. C.
BRO. PROSPER, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
BRO. JUST, C. S. C.
BRO. GEORGE, C. S. C.
BRO. MAURILIUS, C. S. C.
BRO. ALOYSIUS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.
BRO. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
BRO. CORNELIUS, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
BRO. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
BRO. SEBASTIAN, C. S. C.
BRO. BEDE, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
11
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
4
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15,1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lew-
is Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Mari vault, Francis
Gouesse and their associates and successors in office,
be, and are hereby constituted and declared to be, a
body corporate and politic, by the name and style of
the ‘University of Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that
name shall have perpetual succession, with full power
and authority to confer and grant, or cause to be con-
ferred and granted such degrees and diplomas in the
liberal arts and sciences, and in law and medicine, as
are usually conferred and granted in other universities
in the United States, provided, however, that no de-
grees shall be conferred or diplomas granted, except to
students who have acquired the same proficiency in
the liberal arts and sciences, and in law and medicine
as is customary in other universities in the United
states.”
12	BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
fit
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155
feet; it is five stories in height and is surmounted by
a dome 207 feet in height. The executive offices, two
study-halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the
dining-rooms are in this building. The Library and
the Bishops’ Memorial Hall are also here temporarily.
This building, like all the others of the University, is
lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by steam.
The corridors of the first floor are decorated with mu-
ral paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
in ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gre-
gori, and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large
crypt and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of
32 bells and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 55,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
departments of literary criticism, history, political sci-
ence and the Greek and Latin classics are well repre-
sented. Special libraries containing reference works
on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges of
Engineering and Science. The College of Law has a
complete library of its own. Ample reading room is
provided in the main library. The best literary maga-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	13
zines and reviews, as well as current numbers of sci-
entific and technical journals are kept on file. Stu-
dents have access to the Library from 8:00 A. M. to
9:00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width,
and about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms
of the Department of Music, the reading rooms for
Brownson and Carroll Halls, and the University Thea-
ter. The Theater is elaborately equipped with stage
settings. It will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men
eminent in public and professional life are given here.
Concerts and plays by professional companies are also
presented in this theater. The dramatic clubs of the
University present five plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is .situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three stories
in height. A large central space, the full height of
the building, is occupied by a museum containing min-
eral, fossil and biological specimens. The departments
of Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering,
Philosophy, Botany and Biology have recitation rooms
and laboratories in this building. The equipment for
each of these departments is extensive and complete.
Description of the equipment will be found later in this
catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological
14	BULLETIN OF THE
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative verte-
brate skeletons forms a considerable part of the mu-
seum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists
of two complete Herbaria, one of the United States,
the other of Canada. There is also a second collection
of the woods and fruits of the United States, almost
complete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a
series of cases on each, side of the building. In one
series is a carefully classified collection of minerals
and ores. The opposite series of cases contains a large
geological collection; some of the specimens here are
of the rarest fossil remains of animal and plant life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture rooms. The second floor
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and con-
■ tains a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern
drug store, a lecture room and museum, a library for
pharmaceutical publications, and a general stock room.
The general inorganic, organic and elementary chem-
ical laboratories are on the third floor. Each labora-
tory is provided with ample hood accommodations, and
each desk is furnished with water, gas and suction.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	15
THE SHOP.
This building is situated in the southern part of the _
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the me-
chanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop for
wood work and also contains a well lighted drawing
room where students in designing may consult com-
plete working drawings of the best steam engines and
pumps to be found on the market.
THE OBSERVATORY	’
This building is located near the chemical Labora-
tories and is designed for an equatorial telescope and
for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial tele-
scope now in the building is intended for students of
astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
, SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of the
Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the first floor
there is a chapel, a law lecture room and a law library.
The building is lighted with electricity and heated with
steam. In the basement are recreation rooms and bath
rooms.	•
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with recrea-
tion rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted with
*5
16
BULLETIN OF THE
electricity and gas and heated with steam. For room-
rent and care of the room a fee is charged.
WALSH HALL
This newest dormitory building is situated South
of Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions are
230 feet by 41 feet. It faces East and all the front
rooms are made up of suites each consisting of a com-
modious study room, flanked on either side by a bed-
room. Attached to each suite is a private bath and
toilet. Each room is supplied with hot and cold water.
The rear rooms are singles and the general toilet and
bath rooms are convenient to all of them. Partitions
in rooms are of hollow, fire-proof tile, walls and ceil-
ings covered with wire lath and plaster, making prac-
tically a fire-proof building. It is equipped with
a distinct system of stand-pipes for fighting fire. The
entire corridor floors are built of reinforced concrete,
covered with Roman ceramic mosaics. In finish and
equipment Walsh Hall is believed to be the best college
dormitory building in America. It embraces three
stories, besides the admirable basement and attic, and
it is capable of accommodating over a hundred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of
age and upwards. There is a common study hall, a com-
mon lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms in which
each student has an alcove curtained to secure personal
privacy. Experience shows that the discipline of these
common rooms works admirable effects on students
who have not yet contracted solid habits of study.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
17
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Administra-
tion Building. It is in all respects similar to Brownson
Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively
to living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The
conditions for admission to this hall are: (1) The
payment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on
the first of August, and (2) satisfactory service as a
waiter. The waiting in no wise interferes with the
student’s work, and all the educational advantages are
open to him. It is to be regretted that through the
lack of endowment the University can offer only a
limited number of such opportunities each year. It
is necessary to apply early for these appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground mea-
surement and three stories in height, contains rooms
for the use of students during illness. The sick are
cared for by Sisters of Holy Cross, and the University
physician visits them daily.
* THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in No-
vember, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200
18
BULLETIN OF THE
feet in dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180
feet on the ground; it is used for indoor meets, winter
baseball practice, basketball and military drill. The
gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with
a full set of apparatus; below that are the offices, dress-
ing-rooms and shower-baths. Friends of the Univer-
sity and the alumni contributed more tnan three thou-
sand dollars to the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten
acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. E., of the class of ’87.
OTHER' BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connect-
ed with the University, Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall,
the Community House, the Presbytery, and Saint Ed-
ward’s Hall, the last named being a school for children
under the age of thirteen, in care of the Sisters of
Holy Cross.
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his own
curriculum conformably to his natural liking, the ca-
reer in life he may have in view, or the determinate
intellectual bent developed during his secondary school
years; but, though he is free to elect his own studies,
he has not, however, unlimited freedom in this respect.
The principle of general election is modified. Lest the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
young Freshman in his inexperience choose unwisely,
he is aided in making his choice of studies by being
permitted to select from among a number of parallel
programs leading to baccalaureate degrees. Seven-
teen programs are open for his choice in the Colleges,
each embracing courses which, in the opinion of the
Faculty, contribute best to cultural, scientific or pro-
fessional knowledge. These programs are, in some
cases, made elastic by the introduction of elective
courses, especially in the Junior and Senior years.
Students who wish to spend a limited time in study
and cannot complete all the courses in a program for
a degree may register as special students and elect
any courses for which their preparation has fitted
them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for attendance at recitations and the time
necessary for preparation of recitations. One hour
of recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours
of laboratory work. The minimum number of credit
hours which a student must carry, except in his Senior
year is sixteen, the maximum number which he may
ordinarily carry is twenty. Students who wish to take
more work than is indicated by the maximum require-
ments must apply by formal petition to the Faculty
for the requisite permission.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by a
properly attested certificate, of ability to enter on the
20
BULLETIN OF THE
courses of the Freshman year. The specific subjects
required for entrance will be found later in this cata-
logue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for ad-
mission to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, at the beginning of the Fall Term and in
January at the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examina-
tions in one or more of the subjects required for ad-
mission to any college program may, at the discretion
of the Faculty, be admitted to his class conditioned, to
make up his deficiency by extra study within one school
year. Only when the conditions are removed will the
student be admitted to full standing in his class.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited
to the State Universities, will be admitted without ex-
amination to the Freshman year of any program to
which their preparatory studies entitle them.
Certificates of work done in public High Schools or
in private Preparatory Schools will not be accepted
instead of examinations, unless the applicant has
passed the final examinations after full courses in his
school, and the Faculty of the University are satisfied
with the standing of the school.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing
who are required to take examinations must pass, in
addition to the usual entrance examinations, an exam-
ination in the work already done by the classes they
desire to enter. The additional subjects may be found
in the several programs of studies described later in
this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present cer-
tificates from other colleges or universities may be re-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
21
) ceived at the discretion of the Faculty with or without
examination as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the pre-
scribed courses in Evidences of Religion.
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by
the University will be found described later in this
catalogue. Written theses and final examinations are
demanded of all candidates for degrees. One full scho-
lastic year of resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through-
out the four scholastic years. In the College of Arts
and Letters one of three degrees is conferred on an un-
dergraduate—Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of
Letters (Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.) —
dependent on the special program of studies the candi-
date selects. The College of Science offers five de-
grees for choice to undergraduates—Bachelor of Sci-
ence (B. S.), Bachelor of Science in Biology (B. S.
Biol.), Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.),
Graduate in Pharmacy (Phar. G.), Pharmaceutical
Chemist (Phar. C.). The College of Engineering of-
fers five degrees—Civil Engineer (C. E.), Mechani-
cal Engineer (M. E.), Electrical Engineering (E. E.),
22
BULLETIN OF THE
Mining Engineer (E. M.), and Chemical Engineer,
(Ch. E.), Two degrees are offered by the College of
Architecture—Bachelor of Science in Architecture (B.
S. A.), and Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engi-
neering (B. S. A. E.). The College of Law offers the
degree of Bachelor of Laws (LL. B.). In the College
of Music one degree is offered—Bachelor of Music (B.
M.) In order to obtain this degree the candidate must
have studied music in the University for one complete
year. He must have a thorough theoretical knowledge
of four instruments mentioned in the courses described
later, and a practical mastery of one of them. He shall
pass a written examination in harmony, counterpoint
and composition, and he must submit to the examiner
two original compositions: (a)-a fugue for full or-
chestra, or for four voices with independent orchestral
accompaniment: (b) a composition in the free form
(sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a trio (pianoforte,
violin and violincello).
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one com-
plete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
form some other college in good standing, and who
make application to the Committee of the Faculty on
Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing advanced
work. All work must be approved by this Committee.
One year of residence, at least, is required of candi-
dates who have received their Bachelor’s degrees at an-
other college. Those who have received their Bache-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	23
lor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in some cases to
be determined by the Committee, obtain the Master’s
degree for work done in absentia* One major and one
or two minor courses will constitute the curriculum,
forming a consistent, co-ordinated plan of advanced
work pursued with some definite aim. On completion
of the required work the candidate must pass a satis-
factory examination in writing, under the professors
who give his subjects of instruction. The candi-
dates for this degree must also write a dissertation
of notable merit on some topic connected with his
major subject, the thesis to contain in the minimum
&
five thousand words. The subject of the thesis must
be announced to the Committee by December 1, and
submitted'for examination by May 15. Five printed or
typewritten copies of the thesis must be presented to
the University to be placed in the library. The fee for
examination of work done in absentia is twenty-five
dollars. The fee for this degree is fixed at fifteen
dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity work before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these years must be spent at Notre
Dame and one may be passed in some other university
on approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Grad-
uate Study. The candidate must pass satisfactory ex-
aminations in French and German on entrance. The
work for the degree shall consist of one major and two
minor courses of instruction approved by the Commit-
tee. Research study shall form the most important
*No degree is conferred in honorem except the degree of doctor of
Laws (LL.D.).	'
24
BULLETIN OF THE
part of the candidate’s work. On completion of his
work the candidate must pass minute examinations on
the three subjects of his curriculum and must defend
his dissertation before the whole Faculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies pre-
sented to the University. A copy of the thesis must
be handed to the Committee one month before the ex-
aminations. The degree will not be conferred for
merely faithful work, and not for miscellaneous study,
but for original research and for high attainment in
one branch of study. The fee for this degree is fixed
at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates for
a degree by following the prescribed courses of any
program may register as special students and attend
any of the courses of instruction for which their pre-
vious academic training has fitted them. Such special
students are governed by the same regulations and
discipline as the other undergraduates. They are re-
quired to pass the same examinations in the courses
they pursue as the other students. In exceptional
cases men of mature age, who have been out of school
or college for several years, but whose training in
practical affairs has been sufficiently educative, will
be accepted as special students by satisfying the Fac-
ulty of their ability to pursue with profit any course
of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may re-
ceive on application certificates stating their profici-
ency in the courses they have pursued.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has at present only four founda-
tions which yield revenues for the support and tuition
of four students annually. Assignment of these schol-
arships is made under restrictions indicated with each
gift. No student will be continued in the enjoyment
of a scholarship whose superiority in college work is
not clearly indicated in his first year of residence.
Nor will a student who has incurred serious censure
by breach of the regulations of the University be con-
sidered again as a candidate for a scholarship.
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of en-
dowment makes it impossible for the University to
give place to a greater number of deserving students
who are not able to pay the charges of board and tui-
tion. Under conditibns-indicated on page 17 of this
catalogue a limited number of student-waiters can be
received at reduced rates. Certain clerkships in the
University offices and positions in the libraries are also
open to worthy students. Information regarding the
assignment of these places will be furnished by the
President. The University is doing all in its power to
assist students in narrow circumstances. The friends
of Notre Dame are asked to assist in this work.
THE JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Edward Johnson, of Watertown, Wis-
consin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the in-
come of which aids in the support of one student
annually. By the terms of the gift assignment is made
only to a student who intends to enter the priesthood?
THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
The Reverend Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Penn-
sylvania bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899,
26
BULLETIN OF THE
The terms of the bequest specify that the income shall
be used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Ford, of Chicago, gave to
the University certain properties for the maintenance
of worthy students. The income arising from this
gift now supports fully two students annually. By
the wish of the donor nominations for these scholar-
ships are made from St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.
PRIZES
The following prizes and honors within the gift of
the University are awarded annually under conditions
named below. Any of these prizes may be withheld by
the Faculty if the student incur serious censure for
violating any of the regulations of the University.
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who has
obtained the best record in the Senior year of the Clas-
sical Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. William
J. Quan, of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition
that the record of the student is notably good in all
the courses of instruction prescribed for the Senior
year.
THE MASON MEDAL FOR CARROLL HALL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of
Chicago, is awarded each year to the student of Carroll
Hall whose scholastic record is superior to that of
his fellows. Observance of the University regulations
counts in the award. The prize may be withheld if in
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	27
z.
the opinion of the Faculty the record of the student has
not reached a high standard.
* .
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of
Covington, Kentucky, is awarded every year to the
under-graduate who presents the best dissertation in
English. Essays offered in competition may be on any
subject approved by the head of the Department of
English. Those offered for graduation may be pre-
sented in competition. The faculty will not award the
prize, if, in the opinion of the judges selected, the best
essay is not notably meritorious.
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
Breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded to
the student who excels in oratory. The award is made
• by a committee of three selected by the faculty and
after a public competition. The winner represents the
University in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest
held the first Friday in every February. No student
may receive the Breen Medal more than once, but the
winner of this prize may compete again for the honor
of representing the University in the State Contest.
There is also a ten-dollar prize offered for the win-
ners of the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Prepar-
atory contests in oratory.
„ ELLSWORTH C. HUGHES MEDAL FOR
_ CIVIL ENGINEERING
A gold medal presented every year by Mr. A. S.
Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, in memory of his son,
who was a member of the Sophomore Class in 1889, is
28
BULLETIN OF THE
awarded to the student of the Department of Civil
Engineering who has obtained the best record in all the
courses prescribed in the program. The medal is
c
awarded only when the student’s record has attained
a fixed standard. In computing the grade the courses
in mathematics count fifty per cent. Only students
who have been in residence for four full years are
eligible to compete for this prize.
THE MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Lyons Medal
and the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every
year for excellence in elocution. The award is made
after competition in public. In order to be eligible to
compete, students must have followed at least two
of the courses of instruction in public speaking. One
of the medals was founded in memory of Professor
Joseph A. Lyons, of the Class of ’62, who served the
University as Professor of Elocution and Oratory from
1872 to 1888. The other is the gift of Mr. Patrick T.
Barry, of Chicago.
THE PRIZE FOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to three
students who, in the opinion of a committee of judges
from without the Faculty, excel in debating. The
award is made after a competition in public. The
prize is divided, thirty dollars going to the student who
receives the highest marks, twenty-five dollars to the
second, and twenty dollars to the third. The three
students who are successful in the competition ordi-
■ narily represent the University in the principal inter-
collegiate debate of the year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	29
Another prize of sixty dollars is awarded to the
students of the Law School chosen in the way men-
tioned. The money is divided, twenty-five dollars to
the first, twenty dollars to the second, and fifteen dol-‘
lars to the third. This prize was founded by Mr.
Francis H. Boland, student, *87, of the Law firm of
Armstrong, Brown & Boland, New York.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing will
be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintain that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of
a youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impos-
sible to bring about this development where students
are granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty gov-
ernment while outside the class-room. A young man
must learn obedience to law by the actual practice of
obedience. Here students are required to obtain per-
mission for any departure from the regular daily rou-
tine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are enforced at the University.
1.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term time, except in cases of urgent neces-
sity. There is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the Univer-
sity immediately after arriving at South Bend. This
30
BULLETIN OF THE
rule is binding not only at the beginning of the scho-
lastic year, but at all other times when leave of ab-
sence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in South
Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in
examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immor-
ality, the use of profane and obscene language, and an
unauthorized absence from the University limits are
among the causes for expulsion. In case of suspension
or expulsion for such offenses, no fees shall be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or dis-
continued without the consent of the Director of
Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brown-
son, Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age;
boys seventeen years of age or older are placed in
Brownson Hall; those over thirteen and under seven-
teen, in Carroll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St.
Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls
as have received from their parents written permis-
sion to use tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin,
Corby or Walsh Halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denomina-
tions are received, the University is nevertheless a
strictly Catholic institution, and all students are re-
quired to attend divine service in the University
Church at stated times.
10.	. Undue attention to athletics at the expense of
study will not be permitted; but students are expected
to take part in outdoor sports.	.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31
11.	A limited number of athletic contests is per-
mitted with college organizations from without.
12.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
of professionalism.
13.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members of
the Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve the
right of a final decision on all questions concerning
athletics. The Faculty Board will determine the
amateur standing of the members of the athletic teams
and apportion the finances. By this means indiscreet
and unconsidered action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Each winter, eminent men are invited to lecture be-
fore the students. Among those who have addressed
the University in the past few years may be noted
four Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli and Mar-
tinelli, and Monsignor Falconio and Agius; Arch-
bishops Ireland, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Chris-
tie, and Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, Mul-
doon, O’Gorman and Shanley. There were also such
noted European churchmen as the Abbe Felix Klien,
Monsignor John S. Canon Vaughan and the foremost
of living English historians, Dom Gasquet; also men
of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford, Marion Crawford,
Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van Dyke, Seumas Mac-
Manus, William Butler Yeats, James Jeffrey Roche,
Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read, Leland Powers,
32	BULLETIN OF THE
Henry James and the Rev. John Talbot Smith; and
such men of affairs as Vice-President Fairbanks,
President Taft, ex-Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge,
Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, Repre-
sentative J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William P.
Breen, Representative Bourke Cochran, Dr. James ,C.
Monaghan, Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward
McDermott and His Excellency Wu Ting Fang.
Concerts are given frequently by organizations from
without.
During the year. 1908-09 the University offered a
course of public lectures and concerts in Washington
Hall, in addition to the regular and special lectures
required by the courses of instruction. The course was
as follows:
LECTURES 1908-1909		
OCTOBER	4.	“Modern Spiritism.”—Dr. J. Godfrey Raupert.
	8.	“Constantinople!”—Prof. Edgar J. Banks.
	8.	“Modern Spiritism.”—Dr. J. Godfrey Raupert.
	9.	“Ninevah and Babylon.”—Prof. Edgar J. Banks.
OCT. 12—NOV. 6.		Fourteen Lectures on “The Writing of Eng- lish and Certain Literary Periods.”— Seumas MacManus.
JANUARY	21.	“Shakespeare and His Plays.”—Norman Hackett.
	22.	“Misuse of Our Country’s Resources.”—Dr. Monaghan.
FEBRUARY	10.	“Hamlet.”—Mr. Young, Brown of Harvard Co.
	18.	“First One Thing and Then Another.”—Opie Read.
	22.	Washington’s Birthday Exercises.
MARCH	9.	“The Missouri Mule.”—John'L. Corley.
	18.	“The Player’s Calling.”—Donald Robertson.
APRIL	26.	“The Origin of Our Universities.”—Dr. James J. Walsh.
MAY	1.	“The Work of the Universities in the Thir-
	□	teenth Century.”—Dr. James J. Walsh.
3
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	33
3.	“The Hague Tribunal”—Hamilton Holt.
4.	“The Living Influence of the Book”—The Rev.
Dr. John Talbot Smith.
5-29. Twenty-six lectures on “The Struggle Between
Christian Principles and Neo-Paganism in
the Field of Letters”—The Rev. Dr. John
Talbot Smith.
19. “Municipal Ownership”—Judge E. F. Dunne.
CONCERTS, READINGS AND DRAMATIC RECITALS.
OCTOBER 26. Oratorio Artists.'
NOVEMBER 3. Skovgaard Concert Company.
15. Victor’s Venetian Band.
17. “Hiawatha”, by Mr. Sidney Woolett.
DECEMBER 1. “The Corsican Brothers,” by the University
Dramatic Club.
9. “The Matchmaker,” by the Dan Sully Company
10. “Lincoln at the White House,” by the Benja-
min Chapin Company.
JANUARY 18. “Julius Caesar”, by Mr. Frederick Ward.
FEBRUARY 3. The Parland-Newhall Company.
11. “A Message from Mars,” by Mr. Adrian
Newens.
MARCH 17. “Two Titled Truants”, by the Philopatrian So-
ciety of the University.
MAY	7. “Hamlet,” by Mr. C. E. Griffith.
24. “Frolic,” by Glee Club and Orchestra.
26. “Dante’s Inferno,” by Mr. C. E. Griffith.
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies
in the University which do such creditable work at
their meetings and in preparation for them that their
work takes on the nature of added courses of instruc-
tion. In each society a member of the Faculty acts
as adviser. In 1908-09 a series of six public debates
was held among the members of four halls—Corby,
Brownson, St. Joseph and Holy Cross. An Inter-Hall
League has been formed and public debates are held
annually. The members af the League also compete
34	BULLETIN OF THE
every year for a prize in oratory. The College of
Law also has an active debating club. The training
in public speaking has always received special atten-
tion at the University. In fifteen public debates with
other universities and colleges Notre Dame has but
once met defeat—the decision of the judges in the
greater number of these debates being unanimous. In
oratory the representative of Notre Dame in the In-
diana State Contest for 1908-09 was awarded first
place. The University Dramatic Club and the Philo-
patrian Society stage at least three plays annually for
presentation in public. The University Band, the Uni-
versity Orchestra and the University Glee Club also
appear regularly in concerts.
Students of the Department of Civil and Electrical
Engineering have each a society in which papers on
engineering subjects are read and discussed. Men
prominent in their profession are invited to lecture to
these societies. The Pharmaceutical Society meets to
discuss subjects of interest in the world of pharmacy.
In other departments where no such formal organiza-
tion has been effected similar results are reached by
seminars.
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linens, per school year............... 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only).........$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition................ 250.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to all
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the year. 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course...	5.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	35
In this First Payment must also be included any Extra Ex-
pense the student may wish to incur, such as charges for Pri-
vate Room or Special Courses (listed below).
ON JANUARY 15.
Balance on Board and Tuition......................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of
the Terms, September and January. The charge of $400.00
covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic
Year. The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition dur-
ing the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or
part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fun-
damental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby brought
to his notice; and so likewise in the event of “his leaving and
absenting himself from the University at any time-or for any
cause without proper permission. However, an exception is
made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home be-
cause of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not be con-
ferred on any student whose account with the University has
not been settled.
OPTIONAL EXPENSES.
For the Scholastic Year, Payable in Advance.
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free, but a nom-
inal charge of $15.00 is made to defray expense
connected with the care of rooms; Freshmen...........$50.00
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made
only to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions;
that is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the
Preparatory and Freshman work, otherwise regular rent will
be charged for rooms. Similarly; only unconditioned Freshmen
are allowed the'special rate of $50.00.
Preparatory Students..............$80.00 and upwards.
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine them-
selves to the regular courses of the programs they have entered,
any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Scholastic Year, payable in advance. The charges will be pro
rata for any portion of the year.
36
BULLETIN OF THE
Instrumental Music — Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment .................$60.00
Use of Piano for Ad-
vanced Students .....30.00
Telegraphy............25.00
Typewriting-Full	Course 20.00
One month .......... 5.00
Phonography...........25.00
Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
Cornet, Clarinet or
Mandolin..............30.00
Laboratory fees listed
Lessons on Violin...... 60.00
♦Use of each Instrument. 5.00
Vocal Culture ........ 75.00
Elocution — Special
Course.............. 10.00
“Scholastic” — College
Paper................ 1.50
Artistic Drawing ..... 35.00
Library Fee............ 5.00
Physical Culture ...... 5.00
iter in this catalogue.
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00; Com-
mercial Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory
Fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order
or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed during
the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend their Summer
Vacation under the care of the University authorities can be accommo-
dated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jose Park is $100.00. Classes
(two hours per day) are included in this arrangement. Special tutoring
at professors' rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at re-
duced rates. For conditions of entrance see paragraph entitled
St. Joseph’s Hall, page 17.
♦As the string and band instruments available for rent are
few, students taking up these studies are advised to furnish their
own instruments.	*
COLLEGE
OF
ARTS AND LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
DEPARTMENT OF LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY and ECONOMICS
38
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
establishment of the College of Science in 1865, only
one program of prescribed courses of instruction lead-
ing to a degree was offered to undergraduate students.
It embraced studies in the ancient and modern lan-
guages, in English literature, in history, the natural
sciences and in mathematics. Graduate students might
obtain a degree of Master by advanced study one year
after obtaining the Bachelor’s degree. The group of
courses was known as the Program of Classics, and
the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts
were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of elec-
tion in courses led the University in 1886 and again in
1898 to form other programs which embraced certain
studies not contained in the Program of Classics, but
which lead to degrees equivalent to the degree of Bach-
elor of Arts. In the matter of election of courses the
student is permitted greater freedom in the program
leading to the degree of Bachelor of Letters than in
either of the other groups. The degrees now under
charge of the College of Arts and Letters are the
ordinary degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Let-
ters, Bachelor of Philosophy and Master of Arts.
The location of the University offers special advan-
tages for study. It is situated on a beautiful tract
where cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the
noisy bustle of city life. This removal from the dis-
tractions of the town gives the students opportunity to
pursue their work with the quiet and concentration
needed for earnest study. Nearly all the Faculty live
on the grounds of the University, dine with the stu-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	39
dents, and are accessible to them at any time. The ben-
efits derived from this constant association with pro-
fessors can not be overestimated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and
laboratories. The main library has fifty-five thousand
bound volumes well selected and several thousand
pamphlets and manuscripts. The leading literary and
scientific reviews are kept on file. Books may be bor-
rowed under easy regulations. The library contains
ample reading-room space and is well lighted so that
students may use it at night. It is open every day from
8 o’clock A. M. to 9:30 P. M. There are also special col-
lections of books in the various departments of the
College, mainly works of reference. Under certain
conditions the city library at South Bend is open to use
by students of the University.
The department of experimental psychology occupies
a suite of three rooms on the ground floor of Science
Hall. The use of a dark room and a silent room may
also be had when need requires. The students have
access to the laboratory at all hours of the day and up
to ten o’clock at night. The equipment includes appa-
ratus and material sufficient for repeating all the exer-
cises in Sanford’s Manual, and most of the exercises in
Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Volume I. The
laboratory is supplied with hot and cold water, gas and
electricity. At the beginning of the course, the aim is
to give students a wide acquaintance with such familiar
apparatus as the chronoscope, kymograph, plethysmo-
graph, automatograph, perimeter, campimeter, tone
variator, Galton whistle, Galton bar, etc. For the study
of special perception, there is a set of stereoscopes,
pseudoscopes, and accompanying slides. Provision is
also made for the investigation of pressure, tempera-
40
BULLETIN OF THE
ture, pain, taste, smell, and muscular sensations. Ex-
periments in the field of auditory perception are facili-
tated by three sets of organ pipes, a set of Koenig’s
movable tuning forks and resonators, and various
kinds of metronomes. For the study of physiological
psychology, a complete set of models of the nervous
system is at hand, together with microscopic slides of
the various parts of the brain and spinal cord.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder, for
writing an essay.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Catiline;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translations at sight of pass-
ages from Cicero and Caesar; translation of English
into Latin based on the text of the authors.
Greek. (For Students in the Department of Class-
ics only) Grammar, etymology and general rules of
syntax; Xenophon, Anabasis, four books; Homer, at
least three books; prose composition based on text.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Mod-
ern History, as set out in the texts used in high schools
and other secondary schools.
Civil Government. The Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equiva-
lent in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples as
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
41
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, New-
comb, or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Physical Geography. As given is Tarr's text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equiva-
lent text.
Botany. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in which
at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation in this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar
to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is
required. Applicants may present either chemistry or
physics provided either subject has occupied one whole
year with five recitations a week.
French and German. A three years’ study of
either German or French and one year of French or
German is required for entrance on the Program in
Letters and the Program in History and Economics.
Students who begin French in the second preparatory
year must take up German in the fourth pre-
paratory year and continue it for two years in the
college course. A like regulation holds for those who
begin German in the second preparatory year. Appli-
cants for the Program of Classics present a year of
French or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation
of ordinary German or French prose: an ability to
translate, rather than accurate grammatical knowledge
is expected.
42
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Terrri	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin	4	154	I	Latin	4	155	II
Greek	4	149	I	Greek	4	149	II
English	3	145	I	English	3	145	I
History	4	152	I	History	4	152	I
Elocution	1	143	III	Elocution	1	143	IV
Elocution	1	144	VIII	Elocution	1	144	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Latin	4	155	III	Latin	4	155	IV
Greek	4	150	III	Greek	4	150	IV
Philosophy	4	173	I	Philosophy	4	173	I
English	3	145	II	English	3	145	II
Elocution	1	144	VIII	Elocution	1	144	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR.
Latin	4	155	V	Latin	4	156	VI
Greek	4	150	V	Greek	4	150	VI
Philosophy	4	174	II	Philosophy	4	174	II
English	3	145	III	English	3	145	III
Elocution	1	144	VI	Elocution	1	144	VI
SENIOR YEAR.
Latin	4	156	VII	Latin	4	157	VIII
Greek	4	151	VII	Greek	4	151	VIII
Philosophy	4	174	III	Philosophy	4	174	III
English	3	146	IV	English	3	146	IV
Elocution	1	144	VII	Elocution	1	144	VII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	43
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	145	I	English	3	145	I
Latin oi*	4	154	I -	Latin or	4	155	II
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	180	II	* French or	5	180	II
German	5	149	II	German	5	149	II
History	*4	152	I	History	4	152	I
Elocution	1	143	III	Elocution	1	143	IV
Elocution	1	144	VIII	Elocution	1	144	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
English	3	145	II	English	3	145	II
Philosophy	4	173	I	Philosophy	4	173	I
Latin or	4	155	III	Latin or	4	155	IV
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	4	181	III	French or	4	181	III
German	4	149	III	German	4	149	III
History	3	153	Ha	History	3	153	Ila
Elocution	1	144	VIII	Elocution	1	144	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR.
English	3	145	III	English	3	145	III
Latin or	4	155	V	Latin or	4	156	VI
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	174	II	Philosophy	4	174	II
History	4	153	III	History	. 4	153	III
Elocution	1	144	VI	Elocution	[ 1	144	VI
SENIOR YEAR.
English	3	146	IV	English	3	146	IV
Latin or	4	156	VII	Latin or	4	157	VIII
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	174	III	Philosophy	4	174	III
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Elocution	1	144	VII	Elocution	1	144	VII
44
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History	4	152	I	History	4	152	I
English	3	145	I	English	3	145	I
French or	5	180	II	French or	5	180	II
German	5	149	II	German	5	149	II
Polit. Science	4	178	I	Polit. Science	4	178	I
Elocution	1	143	III	Elocution	1	143	IV
Elocution	;	1	144	VIII	Elocution	1	144	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
History	3	153	Ila	History	3	153	Ila
Polit. Science	4	178	II	Polit. Science	4	178	Illa
Philosophy	4	173	I	Philosophy	4	173	I
English	3	145	II	English	3	145	II
German or	4	149	III	German or	4	149	III
French	4	181	III	French	4	181	III
Elocution	1	144	VIII	Elocution	1	144	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR.
History	4	153	II b	History	4	153	IV a
Polit. Science	4	178	Hlb	Polit. Science	4	179	IV
Philosophy	4	174	II	Philosophy	4	174	II
History	4	153	III	History	4	153	III
Elocution	1	144	VI	Elocution	1	144	VI
SENIOR YEAR.
History	3	154	IV b	1 History	3	154	IV e
* Political	4	179	V, VI	Political	4	179	VIII
Science	2	179	VII	Science	2	179	VII
Philosophy	4	174	III	Philosophy	4	174	III
English	3	145	III	English	3	145	III
Elocution	1	144	VII	Elocution	1	144	VII
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
46
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE -
The college of Science was established as a distinct
department of the University in 1865. The curriculum
of the student was largely elective for the three suc-
ceeding years, but in 1867 there was formed the group
of prescribed courses now known as the Program of
General Science. Five programs are now offered to
undergraduate students. The degrees under charge of
the Faculty in this college are the ordinary degrees of
Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Biology,
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Graduate in Phar-
macy and Pharmaceutical Chemist. The Master’s de-
gree is conferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Biology occupies the second floor
of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture
rooms and laboratories well ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for gradu-
ate students. The lecture rooms are furnished with
charts and models necessary in teaching the different
courses. The arrangement of windows is such that the
rooms can be easily darkened so that stereopticon and
lantern slides on the subject of botany, zoology and
physiology may be used. The laboratories are equipped
with compound and dissecting microscopes. In each
room there is a library of works of reference pertain-
ing to biological subjects. The general laboratory of
microscopy, histology and embryology is supplied with
compound microscopes and the equipments indispensa-
ble in these courses. The zoological collection fills six-
teen large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate ani-
mals.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	47
For work in anatomy, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of
the human body, which can be taken apart for close
study. Besides there are several mounted and un-
mounted human skeletons. Students pursuing courses
in human anatomy at the University study under a
practicing surgeon and have the privilege of attending
surgical clinics in the new St. Joseph Hospital of South
Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equip-
ped with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers,
and all the improved apparatus employed in thorough
and careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the
others is a laboratory of photo-micography which con-
tains a perfect photo-micographic instrument with a
complete set of. accessory apparatus for experimenta-
tion, photographing microscopic objects, making lant-
ern slides, etc. A large and fully equipped dark room
adjoins this laboratory.
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORY
The botanical laboratory occupies the northwest end
of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly well
adapted to microscopical and histological work. The
department is supplied with the usual requisites of a
working laboratory such as compound microscopes and
accompaniments for each student, the utensils and ap-
paratus necessary for embedding by the paraffin, cel-
loiden, soap methods, and mounting of preparations by
the balsam,Venetian turpentine and glycerine methods.
There are besides, microtomes, camera lucida, microm-
eters and aquaria for plant cultures so that the typical
algae and fungi may be had alive for laboratory use in
all stages of development throughout the year. Special
48
BULLETIN OF THE
devices for the regulating and modifying of artificial
light are at hand enabling the student to work on dark
as well as clear days. Advanced students are supplied
with Abbe condenser and oil immersion lenses. The
laboratory is well stocked with histological material,
and nearly all the types of common plant families of
the phanerogamia and cryptogamia are preserved af-
ter proper fixing. The material for demonstration of
the fresh water algae is particularly good and abun-
dant. The supply of material in Venetian turpentine
and glycerine is valuable, as it supplies permanent
mounts in a few minutes work. There are also hun-
dreds of specimens of rare and common types in para-
ffin. A herbarium containing over five thousand spe-
cies of flowering plants supplies the needs of the classes
in systematic botany. The collection includes plants
from all parts of the United States and Canada,—the
Pacific coast and the Southern States are especially
well represented. Besides these there is a large collec-
tion of fungi, marine algae, mosses, a large collection
of several hundred species of myxomycetes from the
Eastern and Central States, also nearly a thousand
specimens of lichens from" all parts of the United
States and Europe. The latter collection is particular-
ly rich in the genus Cladonia. The herbarium is well
stocked with the local flora, and special facilities are
on hand for the study of the compositae. In the mu-
seum are found specimens of American and tropical
woods and fruits. The laboratory for more advanced
work accommodates about twenty-five students. It is
supplied with eight working tables covered with plate
glass or soapstone, and each place is supplied with lock
and key. The lecture room in botany is on the second
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	49
floor of the building and has a seating capacity of
seventy-five.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated in the
southeastern part of the grounds and is a large three-
story structure devoted entirely to chemistry. On the
third floor are a small stock room and the two labora-
tories for general and industrial chemistry, one capable
of accomodating one hundred and fifty students, the
other seventy. The desks are all supplied with gas,
water, suction and the necessary reagents. On the side
tables are general stock and general apparatus, and
conveniently placed are small stands for suction and
blast lamps supplied with gas, air blast, acetylene. On
the third floor also is the large fan used for drawing
gases from the hoods, with which all the laboratories
are supplied. On the middle floor are the main stock
rooms where supplies can be obtained by the students.
Here also are the laboratories, lecture-room, drug
store, library and museum of the Department of Phar-
macy. On the first floor are the laboratories for quali-
tative and quantitative analysis with desks to accom-
modate sixty-five students, and fitted with gas, suction,
water and blast. Large hood accommodations are
available and can be utilized to advantage because of
the perfect ventilation produced by the large fans on
the top floor. Two small side tables are equipped with
air blast, ordinary gas and acetylene. To the east of
these laboratories are those for physical and electro-
chemistry and special work such as food analysis, iron
and steel analysis, gas analysis, etc. The equipment in
these laboratories is quite complete. Adjoining these
laboratories is a small dark room for spectroscopic and
polariscopic analysis. A large lecture room to accom-
50
BULLETIN OF THE
modate a hundred and ten students is in the south end
of the first floor. It is provided with apparatus for
stereopticon illustrations, storage batteries, cylinders of
oxygen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide and a complete set
of charts illustrative of the processes employed in mod-
ern chemical industries. Two laboratories adjoin, one
for general organic analysis, the other for special ad-
vanced work. Two wings extend from the main build-
ing,—one contains the vacuum and pressure tanks, the
acetylene and gasoline gas generators, the other the
balance rooms, in which are the analytical and assay
balances sensitive to the one ten-thousandth of a
gramme, and the library of the Department. The li-
brary contains besides the works of reference on chem-
istry, the principal chemical journals on file—Berichte,
Zentrdlblatt, the Chemical News, the Journal of the
American Chemical Society, the Journal of the British
Chemical Society, the Journal of Chemical Engineer-
ing, the Journal of Chemical Industries, etc. In the
large hallway are cases containing a steadily increas-
ing collection of minerals, chemicals, and chemico-
technical products of various kinds, designed as illus-
trations of the substances and processes discussed in
the lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are in
a wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas and
fuel furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead ores,
and also tables for blow pipe analysis. A large collec-
tion of minerals and ores serves to illustrate the pro-
cesses.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The department of physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science Hall
and three laboratories in the basement. The lecture
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
51
room will accommodate seventy-five students. For the
work in mechanics there is the force table, inclined
planes, Geneva cathetometer, capable of measuring to
one twenty-five thousandth- of an inch, a large physical
balance, standard kilogram, a standard metre, a divid-
ing engine made by the Geneva society, an Atwood’s
machine, a compound pendulum, a break circuit record-
ing chronograph, a powerful hydraulic press with at-
tachments, rotary air pumps and receivers, a large
clock with electrical contact pieces, several self-wind-
ing clocks, mercury barometers and two aneroid ba-
rometers.
For the work in acoustics there are a Mercadier rad-
iophone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electri-
cally operated tuning forks by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig
phon-autograph, an Edison phonograph of earliest*
type, several sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a
large double siren, a set of very small tuning forks
producing the highest audible sounds, a set of resona-
tors mounted together with capsules for sensitive
flames arranged for the analysis of complex sounds, a
set of Koenig’s movable tuning forks to draw com-
pound curves on smoked glass, three sets of organ
pipes, four sets of fine tuning forks, a set of apparatus
for manometric observation of sound phenomena, a
large tuning fork producing the lowest audible sound,
an electrical metronome, a set of mounted tuning forks
carrying small mirrors arranged to perform Lissajou’s
experiment, producing complex curves. '
For the work in light there are a complete set of ap-
paratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the
wave lengths of light by various interference methods,
a set of polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spher-
ical mirrors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a po-
52
BULLETIN OF THE
larization saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for
gas or electric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large
Nicol's prisms mounted, a large compound prism to
form widely dispersed spectrum, two Rowland gratings
14,000 lines to the inch, a set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland, several cameras with lenses and
attachments, a well equipped dark-room for photo-
graphic work, and a photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
thermometers, air thermometers, a steam engine indi-
cator, several calorimeters, apparatus for determining
the coefficient of linear expansion using the optical lev-
er method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
absolute electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,
six bridges of different types, several ammeters and
volt-meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard re-
sistance coils, a historical set of motors showing evolu-
tion of the modern machine from the early forms of
the reciprocating type, ten galvanometers of various
types, a complete X-ray outfit, sets of apparatus for
wireless telegraphy.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Candidates for the Freshman class of the four-year
programs must be prepared to pass an examination in
the branches named below unless satisfactory assur-
ance of proficiency is given by approved certificate.
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr's text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	53
PHYSIOLOGY. Martin’s Human Body, or an equiva-
lent treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Botany. Elementary.
Civil Government. The American Constitution;
Federal and State Governments.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equiva-
lent in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, New-
comb, or equivalent treatises by other, authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations. A course of at least fifty ex-
periments in elementary chemistry actually performed
by the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
54	BULLETIN OF THE
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book simi-
lar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work
is required.
English. Part of the examination is given for an-
swering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English in the Preparatory
School of the University; the remainder for writing
an essay.
German. A two-year course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English,
and easy English into German, or
French. A two-year course in French may be pre-
sented instead of German under the same conditions.
Ability to translate readily, rather than an accurate
grammatical knowledge, is expected.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on the text of Caesar.
PROGRAM OF GENERAL SCIENCE
The Program in General Science is calculated to of-
ford such an acquaintance with the methods andTacts
of modern science as will best enable the student to fit
himself, either for further study of a technical or pro-
fessional kind, or for the activities of business life. The
natural and physical sciences constitute the primary
studies of this program. Grouped about these are such
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
55
studies in English, mathematics, and modern langu-
ages, as experience has shown to be necessary for the
intelligent pursuit of science and the attainment of the
object of the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior
year.
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen m physics, chemistry,
biology and mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of Gen-
eral Science is required to submit, before the final ex-
amination, a written thesis upon some subject connect-
ed with the elective work of the Senior year. The sub-
ject chosen must have the approval of the professor
in the course selected. The thesis shall contain no less
than five thousand words, and must be satisiactory in
matter and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass
the nnai examination and present a satisfactory thesis
will receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laooratory work or one of lecture or recita-
tion.	-	-
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry 1., VII., each..................................$ 5.00
Chemistry II., III., IV., VI., VIII, IX, XI, XIII., each.. 10.00
Chemistry, V......................................... 20.00
Physics III, Zoology I., Botany II., Mineralogy II., each. 5.00
56
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology	5	183	I	Zoology	6	183	I
Chemistry	4	121	II	Chemistry	4	121	II
Algebra	5	157	I	An.. Geometry	5	158	II
Drawing	2	138	I	Drawing	1	138	II
Physiology	4	177	I	Physiology	4	177	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Botany	5	118	I, II.	Botany	5	«» 118	I, II
Physics	5	176	II, III	Physics	5	176	II, III
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Chemistry	4	122	V	Chemistry	4	122	V
JUNIOR YEAR.
Geology	2	147	III	Geology	4	146	I
Elective	5			Astronomy	3	117	I
English	3	145	I	English	3	145	I
French or	5	180	I	French or	5	180	I
German	5	148	I	German	5	148	I
Philosophy	4	173	I	Philosophy	4	173	I
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy	4	174	II	Philosophy	4	174	II
Three Electives in Science French or	9,11 5	180	II	Three Electives in Science French or	9,11 5	180	II
German	5	149	II	German	5	149	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
57
THE PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them
for professional work either in the laboratory or the
e class-room. Though fixed to a great extent, the sched-
ule of work admits in the Junior and Senior year of
some elective study.
Every candidate for a degree in Chemistry is re-
quired to write an essay in the Junior year on some
subject connected with Chemistry and must submit, at
least four weeks before the final examination, a writ-
ten thesis on work covered in his Senior year. This
thesis must contain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is -
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an “hour” means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recita-
tion.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry I., VII., each...................................$ 5.00
Chemistry II., III., IV., VI., VIII., IX., XL, XII!., each.10.00
Chemistry V., ............'...................... 20.00
Physics III., .................................... 5.00
Mineralogy III., ................................. 5.00
58
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
CHEMISTRY.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		
		Page	Course			Page	Course	
Chemistry	4	121	II	Chemistry	4	121	II	
Algebra	5	157	I	Anal. Geom.	5	158	II	
French	5	180	I	French	5	180	I	
Physics	5	176	II, III	Physics	5	176	II, III	
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Chemistry	4	122	V	Chemistry	4	122	V
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Geology	2	147	III	Geology	4	147	. I
Chemistry	5	122	VI	Chemistry	6	123	IX
Gas Analysis	4	123	VIII				-
JUNIOR YEAR.
Chemistry	7	123	IX	Chemistry	4	124	XI
Chemistry Elective Elective	5 5			Chemistry Chemistry Elective	3 5	125	XIII
English	3	145	I	Assaying English	2 3	166 145	III I
SENIOR YEAR.
Philosophy History of Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French	4 3 5 2 2	174 124	II XII	Philosophy Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French Thesis ’	4 5 2 2	174	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
59
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY	_
. The Program in Biology has been designed for stu-
dents who wish to devote their time largely to biologi-
cal pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological re-
search. The students in this program are required to
prepare an essay during the first term of the Junior
Year on some subject pertaining to biology. Every
candidate for a degree must submit before the final
examinations a written thesis accompanied with origi-
nal drawings. Students not preparing themselves for
the medical profession may substitute for the advance
courses in anatomy and physiology equivalents from
either mathematics, physics, or English literature.
LABORATORY FEES
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I., II., each......'.	..$ 5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany II., IV., each.......... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I., II....................... 1.00
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology ............. 10.00
Physics III.......................................   5.00
Chemistry III., IV., VI., each..................... 10.00
Chemistry V.......................................... 20.00

60
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
BIOLOGY.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology	5	183	I	Zoology	6	183	I
Chemistry,	4	121	II	Chemistry,	4	121	II
Microscopy	2	167	I	English	3	145	I
English	3	145	I	French	5	180	I
French Drawing	5 1	180 140	I IX	Drawing	1	140	IX
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Physiology	4	177	I	Physiology	4	177	I
Botany	5	118	I, II	Botany	5	118	I, II
Chemistry	4	122	V	Chemistry	4	122	V
Physics	5	176	II, III	Physics	5	176	II. Ill
Drawing	1	140	X	Drawing	1	140	X
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anatomy	3	112	III	Anatomy	3	112	III
Botany	6	119	III, IV	Botany	4	119	III, IV
Geology	2	147	III	Geology	4	146	I
Philosophy	4	173	I	Philosophy	4	173	I
Bacteriology	3	117	I	Chemistry	5	122	VI
SENIOR YEAR.
Anatomy	2	112	II	Anatomy	2	112	II
Anatomy	3	112	III	Anatomy	3	112	III
Physiology	6	177	II	Physiology	6	177	II
Zoology Thesis	6	183	II	Zoology Thesis	6	183	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	61
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are two programs in Pharmacy: one of two
years, leading to the degree Graduate in Pharmacy,
(Phar. G.); and another of three years leading to the
degree, Pharmaceutical Chemist, (Ph. C.)
ADMISSION
Applicants for admission to the short program must
be 18 years of age, and must pass an examination in
the subjects required for the first year of high school
work. A certificate of work done equivalent to one
year of high school will be accepted instead of an ex-
amination.
METHODS
The requirements for the long program are the
same, except that an examination in Latin through
Caesar and Algebra as far as logarithms must be pass-
ed. Satisfactory evidence of having spent two years in
a high school of the best grade will be accepted instead
of an examination.
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with
the simplest and gradually leading up to the most dif-
ficult and complicated process.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success, in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of
preparations are required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Ther-
apy, Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloid-
al Medication.
62
BULLETIN OF THE
EQUIPMENT
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus neces-
sary for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnish-
ed as required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug
Store in which the student obtains practically the same
experience that he would get in actual business. A
second year student is placed in full charge. He is
reqired to furnish supplies for the department,, order
material, write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then
at the end of a specified time he delivers the store in
good order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physi-
cians, and taken from the files of a drug store, consti-
tute a very important part of the equipment. Under
Supervision of the instructor each student is required
to read them and to compound those requiring special
manipulation. The reading room is supplied with all
the leading pharmaceutical journals and books of ref-
erence. The Pharmacognosy room contains specimens
of all the official and a great many unofficial drugs for
study and indentification.
THESIS
During the third year the student is required to
spend at least two hours a week in original research
on a subject within the domain of Pharmacy. The re-
sults of this work are carefully recorded and must be
typewritten and presented to the Faculty as a require-
ment for graduation.
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II., and	IV.,	each.........$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI., and	VII.,	each.........20.00
Chemistry I., and VII., each.......................... 5.00
Chemistry III., IV., and VI., each................... 10.00
Geology II............................................ 5.00
Physics I............................................. 5.00
Microscopy............................................ 1.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	63
PROGRAMS IN DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY.
Degree: Phar. G.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy	3	171	I	Pharmacy	6	171	I, II
Chemistry	5	120	I	Chemistry	5	120	I
Microscopy J	2	167	I	Chemistry	2	124	X
Botany	5	118	I, II	Botany	5	118	I, II
Arithmetic	3	173	IX	Mat’ra Medica	2	172	VIII
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy	8	171	III, IV	Pharmacy	8	172	V,VI
Chemistry	4	121	III	Chemistry	4	121	IV
Mat’ra Medica	3	172	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	3	172	VIII
Bacteriology	3	117	I	Pharmacog’y	3	173	X
Physics	5	175	I	Physics	5	175	I
				Physiology	4	177	I
	Degree:	Phar. C.
	FIRST	YEAR.
Pharmacy	3	171	I	Pharmacy	6	171	I, II
Chemistry	5	120	I	Chemistry	5	120	I
Microscopy	2	167	I	Chemistry	2	124	X
Botany	5	118	I, II	Botany	5	118	I, II
Arithmetic	3	173	IX	Mat’ra Medica	2	172	VIII
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy	8	171	III, IV	Pharmacy	8	172	V, VI
Chemistry	4	121	III	Chemistry	4	121	IV
Mat’ra Medica	3	172	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	3	172	VIII
Bacteriology	3	117	I	Pharmacog’y	3	173	X
Physics	5	175	I	Physics	5	175	I
				Physiology	4	177	I
Pharmacy	5	172	VI	Pharmacy	5	172	VII
Chemistry	5	122	VI	Chemistry	5	125	XIV
Geology .	2	147	III	Urinary Anal.	3	122	VII (a)
Thesis	2			Toxicology	3	122	VII (b)
Elective	5			Thesis	2		
				Elective	5		
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	65
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the en-
gineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the three departments of
engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that
are applied in engineering work. Mathematics is fore-
most among these requirements. The natural sciences
receive their share of attention and due importance is
given to languages in arranging the programs of
studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain
amount of practice in the application of the theory to
actual physical conditions. These conditions are made
to correspond as closely as possible to the real work
of the engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are ac-
quired by applying the results of mathematical calcula-
tions to particular practical cases in laboratory work.
Five regular programs of studies have been ar-
ranged : one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer,
one to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, one to the
degree of Electrical Engineer, one to the degree of
66
BULLETIN OF THE
Engineer of Mines, and one to the degree of Chemical
Engineer.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accommodate those who
wish to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest
possible time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and
considerable time is given to technical work. The
equipment for each department will be found des-
cribed and referred to on the succeeding pages of this
catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works in
the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufactur-
ing plants in the world are in South Bend or the vi-
cinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour of credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one
to two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in
laboratory work, shopwork or drawing are required for
each hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation,
board, tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 34, the
regular students in the five Engineering Programs are
required to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the
cost of materials consumed and the deterioration of the
apparatus used, as follows:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
67
LABORATORY FEES
Physical Laboratory I., and III., each..................$ 5.00
Physical Laboratory IV................................ 15.00
Electrical Laboratory I. and II., each................ 15.00
Electrical Laboratory IV...............................15.00
Shopwork, all four-year programs,	per	term............ 15.00
Chemistry 1............................................ 5.00
Chemistry II., VI., VIII., XI.,	XIII.,	XIV.,	XV........10.00
Chemistry V........................................... 20.00
Mineralogy	IL,	Sophomore	year....................... 10.00
Mineralogy	II.,	Junior	year........................... 5.00
Mineralogy	III....................................... 5.00
Crystallography	IV..................................... 2.00
Petrography V.......................................... 5.00
Metallurgy 1........................................... 5.00
Assaying II........................................... 15.00
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equiva-
lent in the larger treatises of other authors. *
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, New-
comb, or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States; Fed-
eral Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of ancient, medieval and
modern history.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr’s text-book or an equivalent treatise.
68	, BULLETIN OF THE	-
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments and recitations from a text-book like
Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is
also required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry. Labora-
tory work required.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must
’ present a three years’ course in German, French or
Spanish.
English. Part of the examination time is given
for answering questions upon books required to be read
in the preparatory courses in English; the remainder
for writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfac-
torily he may begin at once the regular Freshman
work; but if he is deficient in any one or more subjects
he may enter conditionally and make up his deficiency
as soon as possible in the Preparatory School of the
University.
Credits from high schools or preparatory schools in
good standing will be accepted in place of examina-
tions.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
69
perform intelligently the duties of their profession
either in the office or in some of the responsible posi-
tions superintending the construction and operation of
public works. To secure these results the student is
given, not only a sound theoretical training in the
courses of study, but he is also required to study the
practical applications of the principles upon which the
theory, is based. The first two years are devoted to
the study of mathematics and the theoretical branches.
The last two years are given to the study of applied
courses—practical work in the laboratory and field, as
much as possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects.
Instruction based upon standard text-books on engi-
neering is given throughout the course by means of
lectures, recitations, practice in laboratory, drawing-
room and field. This work is largely supplemented by
assigning to the student, for solution, practical prob-
lems bearing directly upon the subject matter .discuss-
ed in the class room and requiring original investiga-
tion, thus training the student to habits of independ-
ence and awakening his interest in the work of his pro-
fession.
The Department is provided with all the Instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches
of field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists
of surveyors’ transits, engineers’ transits with levels
and vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar at-
tachments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with
70	. BULLETIN OF THE
all the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, level-
* ling rods, etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine.
After the student is taught the use and adjustment of
the instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are
commenced and continued progressively until the more
difficult principles and methods are understood. In a
similar manner is instruction given in the courses of
sanitary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of
materials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing
the student with practical engineering subjects, and
the most improved method of execution and designing.
A large draughting room offers facilities for the prop-
er study of all the courses in mechanical drawing and
design. The room is splendidly lighted from above,
well ventilated and contains the latest form of drawing
tables. There are suitable arrangements for blue-
printing, both by natural and electric light.	'
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West.
Some of the largest plants in the world are situated
here. One of the greatest water power developments
in the United States is located a few miles from the
University. Special advantages are thus afforded to
students for the inspection of the most modern engi-
. neering works now completed or in process of construc-
tion. The City Engineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of the
Department connected with the course of study, is re-
quired of each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original re-
search,	,	.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	- 71
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	157	I	Anal. Geom.	5	158	II
English	3	145	I	French	5	180	I
French	5	180	I	Chemistry	4	121	II
Chemistry	4	121	II	Drawing	2	138	II
Drawing	3	138	I, II	Surveying	3	127	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Des. Geometry	3	126	I	Des. Geometry	3	126	I
R.R. Surveying	5	128	VI, VII	Adv. Survey’g	5	127	IV, V
Physics	5	176	II, III	Physics	5	176	II, III
Drawing	1	138	V	Drawing	1	138	V
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics	5	129	VIII	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	129	VIII
Geodesy	4	129	IX	Materials	3	130	X
English	3.	145	II	Astronomy	3	117	I
Geology	2	147	III	English	3	145	II
Stereotomy	3	139	VI	Geology	4	146	I
				Drawing	3	139	VII
SENIOR YEAR.
Engineering	5	131	XII	Engineering	5	131	XII
Hydromechan.	3	133	XVI	Hydromechan.	3	133	XVI
Bridges, Boofs	5	132	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	133	XV
Sanitary Eng.	2	132	XIII	Sanitary Eng.	2	132	XIII
Drawing	3	139	VII	Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	4	131	XI
9
72
I
BULLETIN OF THE
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and
for the successful management of power plants. As
the program requires a thorough knowledge of pure
and applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only
those capable of adapting themselves to these require-
ments should take it up. The program of the depart-
ment is modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough
fundamental training is best secured by a study of the
practical application of the principles involved, as well
as of the theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connec-
tion with other departments elsewhere described, con-
sists of the study, by text-book or lectures, of the ma-
terials used in mechanical engineering, accompanied by
the science of pure mechanical kinematics^ which traces
the motions of connected parts without reference to the
cause of such motions, to the work done or energy
transmitted. This is succeeded by machine design,
which is a direct development of kinematics, and the
course continues throughout the Junior and Senior
years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the wood-
shop, in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and
pattern-making are taught. When the students have
become sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up
the work of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine
shop. A systematic course of training is provided,
which advances the student by easy steps until he has
mastered all the details of the work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	73
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken
up in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here
especially the student is taught to depend as much as
possible upon his own resources and abilities in exer-
cising his ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of
the program, embodying its chief results, and is ex-
pected to show considerable originality.
Every possible advantage is given the student wish-
ing to specialize in some of the branches of engineer-
ing, toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the
particular field desired. He may take up general ma-
chine design, steam engine design, specifications and
contracts, installation and erecting, original research
or gas engine design and operation. A systematic cur-
riculum of study will be outlined in each individual
case leading to a complete and proficient knowledge of
the work undertaken.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort
is made by the authorities to make the work as com-
prehensive as possible.. ’
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop
is supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped
with the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes
for turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner,
an edge moulder and sharper, a universal trimmer, cir-
cular saw with dado and drilling attachments and band
saw, the whole forming an adequate equipment for a
thorough mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern
making.
The power for operating the machine shop is de-
rived from the electric plant of* the University, two ten-
horse power motors being used for this purpose, from
74	BULLETIN OF THE
which power is transmitted to the various machines
by line shafting running the entire length of the build-
ing. The latest improved lathes have been provided,
nine in number, varying from a five-inch swing in the
smallest to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed
having a capacity for work twenty-eight inches in di-
ameter. Two drill presses, a large planer, a shaping
machine and a Brown and Sharp milling machine com-
plete the outfit, thus making the machine shop a model
of its kind. There have been completed lately in the
machine shop seven new screw cutting lathes of four-
teen inch swing, a high speed bench hand lathe, one
twenty-eight inch Sibley and Ware drill press, one hor-
izontal 8 x 12 slide valve steam engine and a wood mill-
ing machine. The equipment is added to regularly, and
recently a Seneca Falls lathe of fourteen inch swing
and eight foot bed, a Crown high speed lathe, a Toledo
punch press and a complete new set of chucks, drills,
taps, mandrels and lathe dogs have been installed to
meet the additional requirements of the courses. It is
the policy of this department to refrain as much as
posible from exercise work, and each student is usually
taking part in the construction of some new machine
or engaged on general repair work for the University,
a plan which is regarded superior to a fixed routine of
exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	' 75
engineering students have access to the steam and pow-
er plants of the University which have been recently
" remodeled and made to compare favorably with the
best contemporary practice. The main steam plant con-
tains two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers,
aggregating 1200 horse power. In connection with the
boilers is installed the necessary testing apparatus as
follows: a Worthington hot water meter for measur-
ing the amount of feed water, a feed water thermome-
ter for getting temperature of same, a high range ther-
mometer for temperature of generated steam, a throt-
tling calorimeter for ascertaining the quality of steam
and an automatic recording pressure gauge giving a
continuous record of the boiler pressure. Provision is
made for finding the temperature and pressure of the
flue gases by means of a* pyrometer and draught gauge
and for obtaining samples of flue gas -for analysis with
Fisher’s analysis apparatus. These, with a Carpenter
coal calorimeter for determining the heating value of
fuel, comprise a full and complete equipment for giv-
ing the student an intimate knowledge of the practical
part of boiler management and testing. A Webster
feed water and purifier, two compound duplex pumps,
two vacuum pumps working on the heating system,
two large Worthington fire pumps 16 by 9 by 12 with
a capacity of 1500 gallons per minute, with numerous
separators, steam traps, automatic reducing valves,
etc., complete the apparatus in the main steam plant.
A McEwen high speed automatic engine, an Armington
and Sims engine of similar type and several low speed
horizontal engines with polar and roller planimeters,
indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules and other ne-
cessary instruments, are used in studying the operation
of the steam engine, distribution and economy of
steam, regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.
76
BULLETIN OF THE
I
There have been donated in the past year to the me-
chanical laboratory about four hundred brass and iron
fittings, used in steam and gas engineering, including
feed water injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups,
safety valves, relief valves, different varieties of globe
valves, gate valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bush-
ings and reducers. Many of these have been sectioned
to show the dimensions, and facilitate a study of the in-
ternal structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four cycle gas engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermome-
ters, a five horse power two cycle vertical gas engine
of the marine type, a four horse power horizontal four
cycle gasoline engine with circulating pump and cool-
ing tower, one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction
coil, one Apple ignition dynamo with storage battery,
two Hendricks automatic igniters together with car-
burettors, spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all
necessary equipment for a complete study of the gas
engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston
carburettor and muffler, a National storage battery,
Pittsfield induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard
magnetos with brass armored spark coils, one four en-
gine cylinder distributor and a number of improved
standard and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated by alcohol has been placed in the machine
shop, and the work of designing and building the en-
gine will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering
topics is kept on file for reference, as well as a com-
plete line of trade catalogues.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
77
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	[Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	—	s— Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	157	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	158	II
French	5	180	I	French	5	180	I
Drawing	3	138	I	Drawing	3	138	II
Chemistry	4	121	II	Chemistry	4	121	II
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	3	165	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Drawing	3	139	VIII	Drawing	3	139	VIII
Chemistry	4	122	V	Chemistry	4	122	V
Physics	5	176	II, III XIVc	Physics	5	176	II, III
Shopwork	3	165		Shopwork	3	165	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR.
An. Mechanics	5	129	VIII	An. Mechanics	2	129	VIII
Kinematics	5	162	V	Meeh’s of Mat.	3	130	X
English	3	145	I	Mach’n Design	3	162	VI
Physics	3	176	IV	Physics	3	176	IV
Shopwork	3	165	XlVe	Valve Gears	2	162	VII
				English	3	145	I
				Shopwork	3	165	XlVf
SENIOR YEAR.
Materials of Engineering	2	160	II	Steam Engine Design	5	161	III
Thermod’nam.	5	160	I	Steam Boilers	3	161	IV
Steam Engine				Thermod’nam.	5	160	I
Design	5	161	III	Thesis			
Mechan’l Lab.	3	163	VIII				
Shopwork	3	165	XlVf				
78
BULLETIN OF THE
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil,
and Vapor Engines,
This program is devoted exclusively to the study bf
explosive motors, and embraces it in theory, design,
construction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the de-
sign of gas engines, together with their adaption to
the supplying of power for almost every requirement,
has led to the establishment of this program for young
men wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a gen-
eral descriptive study of the different types of engines
with discussions on the general management, opera-
tion, care and special uses to which this type of motor
may be applied. During the second year the general
theory of the gas engine is studied and the design of
an engine for specific purposes is undertaken by each
student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermody-
namic efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Ex-
periments in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, op-
eration of vaporizers and Carburettors, construction of
spark coils with management and care of motors will
complete the work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practi-
cal application to the theories advanced in the class
room by the complete building and testing of a gas en-
gine of a design to be selected by the demonstrator.
Each student is required to prepare the patterns and
core-boxes, machine the castings and forgings, assem-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
79
ble the complete engine and submit a comprehensive
report of a test on the machine constructed. If the
report proves satisfactory a certificate of proficiency is
given to the student and the gas engine becomes his
own property.
For admission to this program the student must have
completed courses XIVa and XIVb in shop work and
must certify by examination or certificate evidence of
a knowledge of algebra as far as logarithms and his '
further ability to pursue the studies of the first year.
Candidates shall also write a short essay, which must
be satisfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and
paragraph construction.
The equipment and facilities for the courses will be
found described on pages 73-76.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM IN
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Terui.	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Geometry	5	202	E	Trigonometry	5	203	
Drawing	2	138	I	Drawing	3	138	II
Shopwork	3	165	XIVc	Shopwork	3	165	XlVd
Chemistry	5	120	I	Chemistry	5	120	I
Physics	5	175	I	Physics	5	175	I
Gas Engines	5	163	zx	Vapor Engines	5	163	JX
*	•		SECON	D YEAR.			
Motor Design	15	164	XI	Motor Design	10	164	XI
Laboratory	3	164	XIII	Laboratory	3	164	XIII
Gas Engine	3	164	XII	Gas Engine Engines and	3	164	XII
				Boilers	3	163	IX
80
BULLETIN OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for
men skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
in the program of Electrical Engineering is intended to
give a general education as well as a special training in
the technical branches involved in the various practical
application of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and
shops the operations explained in the class room are
performed by the student, in doing which he acquires
skill in handling tools and instruments, and obtains a
working knowledge of the principles involved. Care-
ful records of the work done in laboratories are kept
by the student and are handed in for suggestions and
corrections at the end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufactur-
ing centre in the growth of which electricity is taking
a very prominent part. Electric power generated by
steam is now being distributed and utilized in several
large plants, some using the three phase alternating
system, while others are using the direct current. One
of the largest water power developments in the Middle
West is situated within a few miles of the University.
From this establishment we receive three phase alter-
nating currents which furnish light for our buildings
and grounds, and power for driving motors in our
shops and printing offices, etc., all of which are oper-
ated by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power with-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	81
in a short distance. Our students visit all of these
plants accompanied by an instructor who points out
the applications of the text-book theory in the design of
electrical apparatus and its operation under actual
working conditions.
Each candidate for graduation must present at the
end of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying
the results of an extended original research on an en-
gineering subject, chosen at the beginning of the year,
with the approval of the head of the department. The
descriptive part ihust be typewritten on legal cap pa-
per, and bound in book form together with the draw-
ings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instru-
ments as follows: A three phase A. C. induction motor
arranged to operate on single phase circuits with a con-
denser compensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K.W.
composite wound Wood alternator of the latest type
with exicatter and a full set of switchboard instru-
ments, several transformers of different capacity, a
high tension transformer for testing insulation, an Ed-
ison bipolar 15 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson- ■
Houston arc light machine with regulator and fifteen
lamps, a Wood arc transformer for testing insulation,
an Edison bipolar 15 machine capacity 25 lights, an
Edison bipolar 3 K. W. 125 V. dynamo with special
winding, a Van Depoele compound wound dynamo, a
special A. C. 5 H. P. dynamo or rotary converter, a
series wound dynamo with wrought iron field, number
of small motors, a forty horse power high speed auto-
matic engine, a set of inclined coil alternating current
portable instruments voltmeter, ammeter and wattme-
82	BULLETIN OF THE
ter, telegraphing relays, sounders, switchboards, etc.,
telephone apparatus including subscribers sets of vari-
ous modern types, a fifty drop manual switchboard
complete and a lot of separate drops, jacks, switches,
lightning arresters, etc., automatic telephone switch-
board containing first and second selector and connec-
tor switches, interrupter heat coils, etc., and three sub-
scribers sets—with this apparatus all the operations
involved in the operation of a 10,000 system may be
performed, a complete central energy switchboard, sev-
eral lines and subscribers sets and a selective signaling
four party line outfit, a collection of historical sets in-
cluding Reis’ transmitter and receiver, a standard port-
able bridge, a common portable bridge, a testing bat-
tery, a power or foot lathe with wood turning tools,
drills and hand tools for metals, a set of tools for metal
working, a calibrating lamp rack, a D’ Arsonval and
common galvanometers, Ballistic galvanometer, stand-
ard condenser, etc., for capacity work, resistance boxes,
standard megohms, etc., high resistance Thompson gal-
vanometer, standard cells, voltmeter arranged for the
comparison on incandescent lamps, a plug switchboard
controlling all circuits, a small engine belted to shaft- '
ing to drive a plating dynamo and a buffer for cleaning
and polishing work to be plated, solution tank, etc.,—
in all, a complete outfit for electrotype work, a hot wire
ammeter, twelve ammeters and voltmeters mostly of
the Weston type for direct current measurements, a
set of wood working tools, a Kohlrausch bridge for
measuring battery resistance, etc., a lot of arc lamps
series and constant potential open and enclosed arcs of
various wattmeters of various types, a collection of
motor starting rheostats, several sets of parts of in-
candescent lamps showing the various stages in their
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
83
manufacture, a large collection of porcelain insulators
used in electrical work including a lot of insulators for
high tension transmission lines, a lot of armature core
disks, transformer core stampings, formed coils, brush’
holders, pole pieces, samples of insulation, commutator
segments, etc., used in dynamos of good design, donated
by leading manufacturers of electrical machinery, a
case of marked samples of wire insulators, lamps, and
other construction materials, a library of practical
technical books of reference and files of leading period-
icals and trade publications, a Cooper Hewitt mercury
vapor lamp, a high frequency Tesla coil and condenser,
a working model of the induction motor showing the
action of the rotating field, a transmission dynamome-
ter capacity 1-4 to 10 horse power for determining the
efficiency of small dynaffios, a full size armature wind-
ing models mounted to rotate in bipolar and multipolar
fields, a storage battery 25 cells with universal switch
to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An abso-
lute electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for
illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
' meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resist-
ance coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution
of the modern machine from the early forms of the
reciprocating type, ten galvanometers of various types,
a complete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy. For further apparatus consult pages 50
51 and 52 of this catalogue.
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shopwork,
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages. 49, 70, 72 and 73.
84
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER IN ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	157	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	158	II
French	5	180	I	French	5	180	I
Drawing	3	138	I	Drawing	3	138	II
Chemistry	4	121	II	Chemistry	4	121	II
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	3	165	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Des. Geom.	4	138	III	Des. Geom.	4	138	III
Physics	5	176	II, III	Physics	5	176	II, III
Shopwork	3	165	XIVc	Shopwork	3	165	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR.
Analytic Mechanics	5	129	VIII	An. Mechanics Meeh’s of Mat.	2 3	129 130	VIII X
Kinematics	5	162	V	Mach’n Design	5	162	VI
English	3	145	I	English	3	145	I
Physics	3	176	IV	Physics	3	176	IV
Shopwork	3	165	XlVe	Shopwork	3	165	XlVf
SENIOR YEAR.
Dynamo .Machinery	5	142	III	Dynamo Machinery	5	142	III
Thermodyn’m	5	160	I	Electrical Lab.	5	142	IV
Electrical Lab.	5	142	IV	Designing	3	142	V
Designing Thesis	3	142	V	Thermodyn’m Thesis	5	160	I
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	85
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short program, which may
be completed in two years. The studies are arranged
to give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental the-
ories of electricity and magnetism, as well as a certain
amount of skill in handling electrical machinery and
appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and el-
ementary physics are included, for they are necessary
in order to carry on successfully the practical work of
designing, manufacturing and testing or operating
electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work
is given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and
in the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power are
learned by testing, repairing and making additions to
the University plant, and by visiting the numerous elec-
tric establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by an
instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program
should be at least 17 years of age. They should have a
fair knowledge of the subjects taught in the common
schools, especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as
86	BULLETIN OF THE
quadratics. They shall also write a short essay which
must be satisfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence
and paragraph construction.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, according to the follow-
ing schedule, after they have finished all the work re-
quired for entrance, shall be as given on page 67.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM IN
APPLIED ELECTRICITY.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	202	c	Geometry	5	202	D
Drawing	3	138	I	Drawing	3	138	II
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	3	165	XlVb
Physics	5	175	I	Physics	5	175	I
Applied				Applied			
Electricity	5	141	I	Electricity	5	141	I
SECOND YEAR.
Trigonometry	5	203	IT	Engines and			
Designing	3	142	'V	Boilers	3	163	IX
Shopwork	3	165	XIVc	Designing	3	142	V
Dynamo				Shop work	3	165	XlVd
Machinery	5	142	III	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	142	III
Electricity	5	141	II	Applied			
				Electricity	5	141	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	87
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
The wonderful growth and expansion of the mining
industry, not only in this country but in Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America, has created a constant demand
for trained men who have a thoroughly practical as
well as theoretical knowledge of mining operations.
The aim of this department is to give the student suf-
ficent training in the various technical branches of
mining to enable him to project and successfully carry
through a mining enterprise.
The course of studies leading to the degree of Min-
ing Engineer includes the essential subjects of Me-
chanical Engineering, particularly those which have
special prominence in mining work; for the economical
operation of any mine depends to a great extent upon
the judicious selection and proper operation of the
machinery in the power plant, mill and smelter. Like-
wise the subjects of Civil Engineering with but few ex-
ceptions, are embraced in the mining course, for the
reason .that many of the problems of Civil Engineering
must be solved in the laying out and directing of min-
ing work. Plans and surveys of the surface improve-
ments and underground workings of a mine are made
by the Mining Engineer.
In addition to these subjects the course includes the
following special branches: Crystallography, Miner-
alogy, Petrography, Physical and Chemical Geology,
Economic Mining Geology, Metallurgy, Assaying and
a thorough study of Inorganic Chemistry in its appli-
cation to mining and metallurgy.
Throughout the course the object is not only to pre-
sent clearly the theory underlying each subject but to
fix it in the mind of the student by practical work in
88
BULLETIN OF THE
the laboratory, shop, drafting room and in trips to
mining districts where the student becomes familiar -
with the practical application of the principles laid
down in the text-book and lectures.
The subject of the thesis required in this course
must be along the line of mining and consist of origi-
nal research work in one of its special branches, to be
approved by the head of the department.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING
Chemical manufacture has developed so rapidly and
grown so exacting that there has arisen a demand for
men who not only can create and improve chemicah
processes strictly so called, but who can deal with the
problems of construction and maintenance as far as
they are related to chemical industries. To prepare
young men for such work the course in Chemical En-
gineering has been designed. The student taking up
this course is given a thorough training in chemical
principles similar to that outlined in the Course in
Chemistry except that the laboratory period is some-
what shortened. To this training is added a certain
amount of the theory and laboratory practice in Me-
chanical Engineering sufficient for the needs of chemi-
cal industries, together with a consideration of electri-
cal currents as used in chemical manufacture.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	89
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER.,
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term.	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra -	5	157	I	Anal. Geom.	5	158	II
Chemistry	4	121	II	Chemistry	4	121	II
Drawing	3	138	I	Drawing	3	138	II
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	3	165	XlVb
Mining Eng.	5	167	I	Mining Eng.	5	167	I
				Surveying	5	127	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
R.R.Surveying	5	128	VI, VII	Adv.Surveying	5	127	IV, V
Physics	5	176	II, III	Physics	5	176	II, III
Chemistry	4	122	V	Chemistry	4	122	V
Drawing	1	138	V	Drawing	1	138	V
Crystallog’phy	5	16	IV	Mineralogy	5	16	II
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anal. Meeh.	5	129	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	2	130	X
Geodesy.	4	129	IX	Hydromechan.	3	133	XVI
English	3	145	I	Petrography	2	147	V
Mineralogy	3	147	II	Geology	4	146	I
Drawing	3	139	VIII	Drawing	3	139	VIII
Shopwork	3	165	XlVe	Shopwork	3	165	XlVf
				Chemistry	5	125	XV
SENIOR YEAR.
Metallurgy	3	166	I	Assaying	8	166	II
Physical and				Economic			
Chern. Geol.	3	148	VI	Mining Geol.	2	148	VII
Petrography	2	147	V	Graphic Statics	5	133	XV
Ther mody nam.	5	160	I	Thermodynam.	3	160	II
Materials of			>	Thesis			
Engineering	2	160	II				
Shopwork	3	163	XlVf				
90
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	157	I	Anal. Geom.	5	158	II
Chemistry	4	121	II	Chemistry	: 4	121	II
Drawing	3	138	II	Drawing	3	138	I
French	5	180	I	French	: 5	180	I
English	3	145	I	English	: 3	145	I
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	: 3	165	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Physics	5	176	II, III	Pnysics	5	176	II, III
Drawing	2	138	III	Drawing	2	138	III
Chemistry	4	122	V	Chemistry	4	122	V
Shopwork	3	165	XIVc	Shopwork	3	165	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR.
Chemistry	5	122	VI	Chemistry	5	159	XV
Physics	3	176	IV	Physics	3	176	IV
Anal. Meeh.	5	129	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	2	130	X
Kinematics	3	162	V	Hydromechan.	3	133	XVI
Drawing	2	138	V	Mach. Design	3	162	VI
Drawing	3	139	VIII	Valve Gears	2	162	VII
				Chemistry	2	123	VIII
				Steam Boilers	3	161	IV
SENIOR YEAR.
Chemistry	6	123	IX	Chemistry	7	123	IX
Chemistry	3	125	XIII	Chemistry	4	124	XI
Chemistry	5	125	XIV	Chemistry	5	125	XIV
Thermodynam.	3	160	I	Thermodynam.	3	160	I
Mech’l. Lab.	3	163	VIII	Thesis			
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	91
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that
a deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Artist is the heaven-gifted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of
form, color, texture, and ornament, can build them
structurally and economically perfect. It is seldom that
any mind combines all of these attributes. It is more
seldom that to-day’s practice requires them in any one
man. To-day, one man “designs”; another “frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of Architecture that has caused the University
of Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture
from the College of Engineering and to create the new
College of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offer three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The pro-
gram in design requires four years for completion and
is offered to students wishing to specialize in design;
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is
given at completion. The Engineering Program is of
the same length and is offered to men wishing to spe-
cialize in construction; the degree is Bachelor of
Science in Architectural Engineering. Graduate years
are offered in both programs, and upon completion,
Masters’ degrees are conferred. A Short Program
covering two years is offered to students finding it im-
possible or inexpedient to devote to school work the

92
BULLETIN OF THE
time required for completing the programs leading to
degrees. Upon completion of the Short Program a Cer-
tificate of Proficiency is given.
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the draughting-room continuously during the morn-
ing hours from 8 to 12, and for periods of class-room
work in the afternoon. In the Senior Years and in the
Short Program the class-room requirements are less
and the time to be spent in the draughting-room corre-
spondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
preparatory to the programs either in the Prepara-
tory School of the University or in another accredited
school; or, entrance may be by examination at the Uni-
versity on the first two days of the Fall Term or in
Chicago at the offices of the University on days an-
nounced in the press of that city.	,
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the rou-
tine of the courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in
Architecture, or in Architectural Engineering, from
Notre Dame or another School of Architecture of equal
standing. The University will confer the Master’s de-
gree on her own graduate students not in residence at
the end of one year if that time is spent in an atelier
of the first order or in travel abroad following an ap-
proved program of study and investigation; or at the
end of not less than two years if that time is spent in
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
practice and the University’s requirements are com-
plied with.	.
EQUIPMENT
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from
a small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of signed drawings—
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from archi-
tects of national reputation; a large elaborate model
complete in all its details of the new County building in
Chicago; photographs, engravings, plaster models, ref-
erence books and manufacturers’ catalogues and
samples. The collection, however, needs to be increased
faster than the resources of the University will permit.
Philanthropic friends of Notre Dame can not give mon-
ey, or its equivalent, for a better purpose. The endow-
ment of a Traveling Fellowship, preferably for the
study of European Ecclesiastical Architecture, will be
a benefaction of the utmost value. One thousand dol-
lars will provide for one man for one year.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
Candidates for the Freshman Year in either four-
year program, or for the First Year of the Short Pro-
gram must be prepared to pass an examination in the
branches named below, unless they have done their
preparatory work at Notre Dame or in an accredited
High School.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
Algebra. Fundamental operations, simple equa-
tions, involution and evolution, radicals, radical equa-
tions and quadratic equations, including everything up
94	BULLETIN OF THE
to logarithms, as given in Wentworth’s College Alge-
bra, or of an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Mod-
ern History, as set out in the texts used in the high
schools and academies of the country.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
the ordinary text-books.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equiva-
lent.
Botany. Elementary.
Zoology. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in high schools of good standing.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text book similar
to Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is
also required.
Civics. Elementary.
German. A three years’ course in German is re-
quired. Ability to translate at sight German into Eng-
lish, and easy English sentences into German.
FRENCH. An equivalent course in French or any
other language may be offered for German.
Drawing. A knowledge of the use of drawing in-
struments, of projection drawing and elementary free-
hand.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
95
The Program of Studies Preparatory to the Programs in Arch-
itecture is outlined and described in this Bulletin immediately
following the description of the College work.
It is strongly urged that Students desiring to matriculate for
the Architectural Programs complete the First Year Courses in
Descriptive Geometry, Shades and Shadows, Perspective and
Elements of Architecture while pursuing their Preparatory work.
They will thus be enabled to get four years instruction in De-
sign instead of three. The value of the fourth year is equal to
that of any other two. Prospective Students who are not doing
their Preparatory work at Notre Dame may arrange by address-
ing the Professor of Architecture to complete their Preparatory
Courses by correspondence.
THE PROGRAM IN DESIGN
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to design it that the student pursuing it
will have upon completion a liberal general education,
a practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural De-
sign and Composition. It may be undertaken by stu-
dents whose artistic intuition and temperament fit
them especially for the aesthetic side of a noble pro-
fession.
The course is built up around the work in the
draughting-room and atelier, where half of the stu-
dent’s time is spent. The work in Design, beginning
in the Freshman year with the intelligent study of the
orders and simple problems involving their combina-
tion and use, and continued in the three following
years by means of minor and major problems involving
the planning of all classes of building from the simp-
lest to the most monumental, is supplemented and
rounded out by exercises in the various methods and
media of rendering and by a thorough course in free-

96	, BULLETIN OF THE
hand and modeling. All instruction in planning and
composing is based on accepted principles of design.
The materials and methods of all trades and profes-
sions engaged in building operations are systematical-
ly studied in the Construction classes throughout the
four years of the program. The writing of specifica-
tions for each branch of labor is studied synchronously.
Practical work in the various trades is given so that the
student may know good work and thus be able to sup-
erintend construction intelligently. The practical les-
sons are supplemented by inspection trips to the im-
portant building operations and industries in the
neighborhood of the University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and num-
erous practical problems solved.
Working drawings-and details of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that
graver problems requiring a deep knowledge of the
higher mathematics may well be left to the architect-
ural engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business rela-
tions and professional ethics and practice. Architects
of high professional standing will give a number of
lectures in this course.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
97
A history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering four years. The method
is a combination of lectures, recitation and research.
Courses either in mathematics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years complete
the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism
and research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering.
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be thor-
ough, the engineer must specialize. One of his special-
izations is in Architecture. His services are needed
to frame important buildings, to design their founda-
tions and to protect adjoining property while they are
in erection. The modern idea of education is to pro-
gress in a course parallel to the world’s needs. The
College offers the Program in Architectural Engineer-
ing because there is need of the service of the men who
can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
$
should have a bent for mathematics and for painstak-
ing, exact draughting.
The program of studies differs from that of the
Program in Design chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied mathematics are substi-
tuted for the courses in English, economics and philos-
ophy ; the more important construction courses go deep-
er into theory; freehand work ends with the first year;
i
98
BULLETIN OF THE
the study of Historic Ornament and the Histories of
the “Allied Arts” is omitted; and a relatively greater
amount of time, increasing each year, is spent in struc-
tural design.
The Graduate Year is spent entirely in the solving
of problems of the first order in architectural engineer-
ing.
THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiency.
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class-room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year than in
either of the complete programs.
SUMMER WORK
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,
projects, measured drawings or work in an architect’s
office will be required of all students of architecture.
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the draughting-
room.
It is the intention to have the students work steadily
for four hours in the draughting-room during the
morning session and to attend recitation periods in the
afternoon session.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	99
PROGRAM IN DESIGN.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	VIII	Hist, of Arch.	2	115	IX
Construction	4	112	I	Construction	,4	112	I
Des. Geom. )				Shades and			
Perspective f	1	138	III	Shadows	1	138	III
Drawing	1	138	I	Drawing	1	138	II
El. of Arch.	8	115	XV	Drawing	1	140	XIII
English	3	145	I	El. of Arch.	8	115	XV
				English	3	145	I
SECOND YEAR.
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	X	Hist, of Arch.	2	115	XI
Adv. Cons.	2	112	II	Adv. Cons.	1	112	II
Graphics	2	133	XV	Graphics	1	133	XV
Drawing	1	136	Ha	The’y of Design	1	116	XIX
Drawing	1	140	XI	Drawing	)	1	136	Ila
Design .	8	116	XVI	Modelling f	1	136	V
English	3	145	II	Design	8	116	XVI
				English	3	1451	II
THIRD YEAR.
Hist. Orna.	2	115	XII	Elective	4		
Adv. Cons.	1	113	III	Hist, of Art	2	115	XIII
Heat.and Vent.	2	114	VI	Adv. Cons.	1	113	III
Electricity	1	141	I	Sanitation	2	114	V
Drawing	2	136	He	Drawing	1	2	136	III
Design	8	116	XVII	^Modelling J	2	136	V
Elective	4			Design	8	116	XVII
FOURTH YEAR.
Elective Hist of Art	3-5 2	115	XIII	Elective Bus. Ethics	3-5 2	114	VII
Drawing	2	136	IV	Drawing	2	136	IV
Design	10	116	XVIII	Design (thesis)	10	116	XVIII
At the beginning; of his First Year, the student matriculating for the
Program in Design may, with the consent of the Faculty, elect a Major in
Mathematics instead of the Major in English. The Mathematics courses
for the four years will be as follows: Algebra, I; Analytic Geometry, II;
Calculus, III, IV, V; Physics, II, III; Analytic Mechanics, VII; Mechanics
of Materials, X.
At the beginning of his Third Year, the student following the regular
Program in Design may, if his proficiency in English warrants it, elect to
follow during his Third and Fourth Years one of the following courses:
English, Philosophy, Political Science, any History, French, German or
Spanish. He may not, however, elect a course in the same language that
he offered for credit at matriculation. If the above election is denied the
student, he must continue his work in English for one or two years more
as may be decided by the Faculty.
100
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	157	I	Anal. Geom.	5	158	II
Des. Geom.	3	126	I	Des. Geom.	3	126	I
Construction	4	112	I	Construction	4	112	I
Perspective	1	138	III	Shades and			
Drawing	1	140	XI	Shadows			III
Drawing	1	138	I	Drawing	1	140	XIII
El. of Arch.	S	115	XV	Drawing	1	138	II
				El. of Arch.	8	115	XV
SECOND YEAR.
Calculus	5	158	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Physics	5	176	V, III	Physics	5	176	II, III
Adv. Cons.	3	112	II, III	Adv. Cons.	2	112	II, III
Design	7	116	XVI	The’y of Design	1	116	XIX
				Design	7	116	XVI
THIRD YEAR.
Anal. Meehan.	5	129	VIII	Meeh rof	1	2	129	VIII
Sanitary Eng.	2	130	XIII	Anal. Meeh. J			
Electricity	1	141	I	Material	3	130	^2
Heating and				Sanitary Eng.	2	132	XIII
Ventilating	2	114	VI	Surveying	3	127	II, III
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	VIII	Hist, of Arch.	2	115	IX
Struc. Design	8	116	XVII	Struc. Design	8	116	XVII
FOURTH YEAR.
Arch. Eng.	2	113	IV	Arch. Eng.	3	113	IV
Bridges and				Graphics	5	133	XV
Roofs	5	132	XIV	JHist. of Arch.	2	115	XI
Stereotomy	3	139	VI	Bu. Relations )			
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	x ;	and	r	2	114	VII
Struc. Design	8	116	XV111 1 1	Prof. Ethics ) Thesis Design	8	116	XV111
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	101
SHORT PROGRAM.
FIRST YEAR. f
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		subjects Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
				Hist, of Arch.	2	115	IX
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	VIII	Construction	4	112	I
Construction	4	112	I	Shades			
Des. Geom. 1				and Shadows	1	138	III
Perspective f	1	138	III	Drawing	1	138	II
Drawing	1	138	I	Drawing	1	140	XIII
El. of Arch.	12	115	XV	El. of Arch.	4	115	XV
				Design	8	136	XVI
✓			SECOND YEAR.				
Hist, of Arch.		•		Hist, of Arch.	2	115	XI
	2	115	X	Adv. Cons.	2	112	II, III
Adv. Cons.	3	112	II, III	Graphics	2	133	XV
Graphics	2	133	XV	Sanitation	1	136	X
Heat, and				The’y of Design	1	116	XIX
Ventilation	2	114	VI	Bus. Ethics	2	114	VII
Electricity	1	141	I	Drawing	1	136	II
Drawing	1	136	IV	Modelling	1	116	V
Drawing	1	140	XI	Design	8	116	XVII
Design	8	116	XVII				
102	BULLETIN OF THE
COLLEGE OF LAW
For several years a systematic movement has been
in progress, under the auspices of the bench and bar
of the country to elevate the standing and promote
the efficiency of the legal profession, and make it as
learned in fact as it is in name. The most essential
preliminary step to this end, as lawyers generally
agree, is to prescribe requirements and examinations
more comprehensive and rigorous as a test of quali-
fications for admission to the bar. Under the influ-
ence largely of the American Bar Association, the
period now commonly prescribed for the study of
law in a college is three years.
A period of three years’ study is prescribed for
undergraduates in the College of Law of the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame. The courses lead when satis-
factorily completed, to the degree of Bachelor of Laws.
The Graduate program comprises an additional or
fourth year of residal study, and leads to the degree
of Master of Laws.
The degree of Doctor of Law (J. D.) or Doctor of
Civil Law (D. C. L.) presupposes the degree of Bache-
lor of Laws and Bachelor’s degree in Arts or Science.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location of
the University for diligent and persevering work, it
is possible for industrious students to do at least a
fourth more in a year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into
three classes, corresponding to each year of the
program leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws.
The Graduate course is for students who have received
that degree and aim at attaining, by further study and
practical work, to a higher grade of proficiency. A
full year of study in each class is obligatory. More-
over, the student must pass a satisfactory general
examination at the close of each scholastic year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	103
Graduates entitled to vote are admitted to the bar on
motion of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are
admitted to the first year on presentation of a certifi-
cate of graduation from some High School accredited
to the State Universities or by examination on subjects
scheduled in any of the programs of the Preparatory
School at Notre Dame. Certificates showing ,that the
candidate has completed subjects required in any of
the four year programs of the Preparatory School at
Notre Dame' or of any other reputable preparatory
school giving equivalent courses, will be accepted in
lieu of examinations.
Students from other reputable law schools are re-
ceived at any time and allowed due credit for the work
previously done. They must, however, be in residence
for at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice
of the profession or have only been admitted to the
bar, as the case may be, are admitted to the Senior
class and entitled to the degrees appropriate to their
work and standing at graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
, Students who do not intend to become candidates
for the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply
to add to their educational acquirements a knowledge
of the fundamental principles of law, may at any
time in the year have their names enrolled on the list
of special students. No extra expense is thereby
incurred. Yet they must be sufficiently advanced in
age and education to justify the belief that they can
understand and appreciate instruction in the law. No
particular academic entry requirement is prescribed
for them, aside from securing the consent of the
Director of Studies and being of sufficient age and
104
BULLETIN OF THE
capacity to understand and profit by instruction in
the law. The number of such students is likely to
increase steadily, for year by year it is becoming
more manifest that an education is not complete with-
out a knowledge of at least the elementary legal
principles. Many a person has been forced to do
exactly the contrary of what he intended through his
failure to understand the essential elements of a
contract. Many a one has been compelled to pay
heavy damages for personal injuries caused by negli-
gence, or failure to perform a duty, or improper per-
formance of it, where no liability would exist if the
law of torts had been known and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
The study of cases is usually begun in September
and continues long enough to enable students to
understand, analyze and criticise the decisions assigned
to them for study and recitation. Lectures and ex-
planations supplement this work. After thus famil-
iarizing themselves with cases, they are expected to
read the authorities cited daily in class, whether in «
the text-books, lectures or quizzes, and must report o
on their readings. In moot court work, likewise, they
are prepared for actual practice by making a careful
study not only of the cases in the reports, but also
of those cited in text-books and digests.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of
the text-books they studied, and such as have merely
attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineli-
gible to appear for examination. As many law students
come from States in which this test is applied, the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
105
use of text-books is deemed necessary. The books
used by students become peculiarly serviceable in their
subsequent practice. They may be purchased in the
Students’ Office at the University at the lowest retail
prices. The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25 a
year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded
at Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination
with text-book work, case readings and daily exam-
inations, its great value and utility can not be over-
estimated. Each subject is fully covered by lectures,
text-book work, weekly quiz, monthly theses, bi-
monthly examinations, the reading of pertinent cases
and formal trials in the moot court and other courts
of the college. Students have also the advantage of
attending important cases in the higher courts of
South Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thor-
ough and practical. The earnest and industrious
student can accomplish twice as much in a given time
at Notre Dame as he can in an office or at home. With
comparative immunity from the distractions and
temptations of city life, he can give his entire time to
study and necessary,recreation.. In short, he can here
study a greater number of hours and do more class
work day by day than probably anywhere else in the
country.
• Students have from three to four recitations daily,
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. From one to two hours additional
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
four hours weekly are required for moot court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this
106
BULLETIN OF THE
society and the moot court offer exceptional oppor-
tunity and strong incentive to acquire readiness in
debate, fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory,
yet much benefit may be derived from attending the
regular classes in elocution and oratory in the College
of Arts and Letters.
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law
Program it is studied and kept before the class, with
recitations day by day at the same hour, until finished.
It is believed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would
be if frequently interrupted by the intervention of
other and dissimilar subjects.
THE MOOT COURT
All students are required to attend and participate
in the exercises of the moot court. Students of the
first year are expected to serve on juries and as wit-
nesses, while those of the second year assist the
Seniors and Graduates in the conduct of the trials.
The court is fully organized, having a judge, clerk,
state’s attorney, sheriff,, coroner and reporter. Plead-
ings are filed in the clerk’s office, served and returned
by the sheriff, brought to an issue with due formality
by the attorneys, and the trial proceeds under the rules
of evidence before a member of the Faculty acting as
judge.
r In addition to the moot court, which corresponds
to the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully-
equipped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk,
master-in-chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	107
The United States District Court, for example, has its
district judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and
reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in
their work. The statement of facts in the cases tried
are furnished by the Faculty. Students acquire in
this way a knowledge of the customary procedure in
the regular courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether
any of them shows any more care in the choice of
books, or is better adapted for the use of students. ’ All
the latest reports of State and Federal courts are on
its shelves, and no difficulty is experienced at any time
in finding the cases needed for reference, thesis writ-
ing and moot court work. A great library, with a
crowdingly large attendance of students—too many
to be personally known by or to have personal atten-
tion from the Faculty—may often be less available for
use or accessible than a comparatively small one. It
happens sometimes in such cases that twenty or more
students are found vainly scrambling at the same time
to secure possession of a particular report or text-
book. Such experience, fortunately, does not fall to
the lot of the young men studying at Notre Dame.
Not only all the latest reports, but likewise the leading
text-books, are to be found on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in
Moot court trials, but must not be carried to private

108	BULLETIN OF THE
rooms, nor hidden in desks. This rule is rigidly
enforced by the librarian. It is intended for the
advantage and to facilitate the work of the students in
common, for all have a right to feel reasonably certain
that when a book is needed it can be found in the li-
brary.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
4,000, but so carefully have they been selected that
they may be said to surpass in practical utility many
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the law
lecture room. It is practically open all day and until
9:30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation are
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library
of the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable
hours to law students. The library privileges are on
a generous scale, and students are not specially
charged for making proper use of the books, but if
a book be lost or injured through negligence the cost
of the book is charged to the borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings weekly. All students of the College
are members of ’ it. They are required, each in his
turn, to participate in its debates and other exercises.
The debates commonly deal with questions germane to
the law, but subjects of history, political economy, and
the like, are also discussed. An excellent opportunity
is afforded at the meetings of the society to develop
skill, power and fluency in public speaking. One of the
professors usually presides and aids the members
with his counsel and suggestions.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	109
THE COURSES IN LAW
The following plan is observed in the courses given
in the College of Law:
FIRST YEAR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Elements of Law. Ten weeks.
Persons and Domestic Relations, Tiffany. Ten weeks.
Contracts, Clark. Twelve weeks.
Torts, Hale. Twelve weeks.
Criminal Law, Clark. Twelve weeks.
Real Property, Hopkins. Twenty weeks.
Personal Property. .Fourteen weeks.
Sales, Case System. Eight weeks.
Moot Court Practice weekly.
Parliamentary Law and Debating weekly.
SECOND YEAR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Common Law Pleadings, Shipman. Sixteen weeks.
Agency, Tiffany. Ten weeks.
Partnership, George. Ten weeks.
Criminal Procedure, Clark. Twelve weeks.
Equity Jurisprudence, Fetter. Twelve weeks.
Constitutional Law, Black. Ten weeks.
Insurance, Vance. Ten weeks.
Bailments and Carriers, Hale. Twelve weeks.
State and Federal Courts. Four weeks.
Federal Porcedure, Hughes. Twelve weeks.
'Interpretation and Construction of Laws, Black. Ten
weeks.
Medical Jurisprudence, Lectures.
Moot Court Practice weekly.
Parliamentary Law and Debating weekly.
110	BULLETIN OF THE
THIRD YEAR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Code Pleadings, Case System. Twelve weeks.
Private Corporations, Clark. Twelve weeks.
Public Corporations, Ingersoll. Twelve weeks.
Damages, Notes from Lectures. Twelve weeks.
Commercial Paper, Bills, Notes and Checks. Twelve
weeks.
Bankruptcy, Insolvency and Receivers. Ten weeks.
International Law, Glenn. Eight weeks.
Equity Pleadings, Shipman. Fourteen weeks.
Evidence, Civil and Criminal, Case System. Sixteen
weeks.
Wills, Executors, Administrators and Guardians, Cros-
well, Gardner. Twelve weeks.
Suretyship and Guaranty, Pingrey. Eight weeks.
Natural Law and Legal Ethics.
Moot Court Practice weekly.
Parliamentary Law, Debating, Lectures.
Subjects in the Second and Third Year will be
given in alternate years. The subjects under the third
year were given in 1908-’09.
Graduate Courses cover the entire field by way of
review, together with Moot Court practice, office work,
etc. The optional studies include Roman Law, Admi-
ralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright, Patents,
Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc.
*8
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
(In the description of the courses of instruction an
hour means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation
or lecture room and one hundred and twenty minutes in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year, or eighteen weeks.)

112	BULLETIN OF THE
ANATOMY
I.
Human Histology. Laboratory work and demon-
strations. Preparations of the tissues and organs of
the human body given to each student, and their struc-
ture demonstrated. This course is taught in connec-
tion with Course I. under Human Physiology.
II.
Human Histology. Lectures, recitations and lab-
oratory work. The work covers a thorough course in
Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening,
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system—brain
and spinal cord, termination of nerve fibers, etc. Draw-
ings made from each preparation. Text-book, Piersol.
■ [Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Human Anatomy. Lectures and Recitations. Os-
teology and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular,
vascular and nervous systems and of the organs of
special sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book,
Gray.
[Three hours a week for four terms.]
ARCHITECTURE
I. AND II.
Construction. In these courses the student obtains
a thorough knowledge of the materials and methods of
the mason’s, carpenter’s, metal worker’s and painter’s
trades; Each trade is considered separately, and at
conclusion an exhaustive study of specification writing
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	113
and methods of estimating for it is made. The Univer-
sity constantly furnishes employment to a large force
of trained mechanics who will give personal lessons to
the students in all branches of these trades. Inspection
visits are made weekly, as a supplementary exercise in -
superintendence, to important building operations in
the neighborhood. Detail drawings of constructive
methods are made exactly as in an architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each
student is. required to stake out on the campus one of
his projects and to furnish all levels required by the
builder in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of
the architect’s level and compass.
[Four hours a week for two terms.J*
III.
' Advanced Construction. In this course the stu-
dent studies the construction and design of steel fram-
ing, fireproofing of all forms, reinforced concrete, foot-
ings and foundations.
Working drawings for one of the student’s projects •
are made. Especial care and accuracy are demanded
in the preparation of the framing plans and details.
This work is traced and blueprinted by Freshmen stu-
dents.
[Two hours a week for one term; one hour a
week for three terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering. A course in which
are solved graphically and analytically more complicat-
ed problems in structural design and applied mechan-
ics, with especial study of reinforced concrete.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
114	BULLETIN OF THE
V.
‘ Sanitation. This subject is taught from text-
book and embraces sanitary engineering pertaining to
buildings, as follows: sewerage, water supply, light-
ing and ventilation, plumbing work, subsoil drainage,
dry foundation walls and cellars; also drawings of
plumbing systems and fixtures.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Heating and Ventilation. This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating,—furnace heating, hot water,
steam, etc.,—are carefully examined and studied. The
radiation of heat from surfaces, the different systems
of piping, condition of air as to moisture, amount of
air required, causes and best means adopted to secure
pure air ;/the necessity of good ventilation and the lat-
est approved methods for securing this all important
feature are some of the topics considered in this study.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Business Relations. This course consists of lec-
tures in which are given descriptions of a system of
bookkeeping suited to the needs of an architect’s bus-
iness, a system of building accounts, filing system for
• catalogues and prints, a card-index system for prints
and general information; of forms for agreements with
clients, for proposals and acceptances, for contracts
and bonds, and for certificates; the laws affecting
clients, contractors and architects; and the rules of
professional ethics in private practice, competitions
and municipal affairs.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	- 115
VIII,	IX, X AND XL
History of Architecture. This course comprises
a study of the early beginnings, growth and develop-
ment of architectural styles. It includes ethnography
as applied to architectural art; ancient architecture;
Egyptian architecture, Assyrian architecture; Grecian
architecture; Etruscan, Roman and Sassanian archi-
tecture ; Christian architecture in France, Belgium and
Holland, Germany, Scandinavia, England, Spain and
Portugal, and Italy; Saracenic and Ancient American
architecture; Byzantine architecture.
[Two hours a week for four terms]
XII.
History of Ornament. A study of the origin and
evolution of ornament and the application of the same
together with exercises in motive.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
History of Allied Arts. A brief study of the field
of art with especial reference to sculpture, metal work-
ing, mural painting, stained glass and mosaic.
[Two hours a week for one term.]	-
XIV.
The Elements of Architecture. This course is
a study of the Five Orders of architecture and is given
by lectures, recitations and drawing. The study em-
braces a thorough analysis of each order, in which the
principal and distinguishing features of each are Clear-
116
BULLETIN OF THE
ly shown and comparisons made. Also a study in
detail of the forms and proportions characterizing
each is made in the class room. Problems pertaining
to the orders are given in the drawing room, and detail
drawings and colorings made.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
XV,	XVI, XVII AND XVIII.
Design. The study of problems in architectural
design, embodying the subjects of composition and
form. This course expands from Elementary design
(second year) to Advanced Design and Thesis Work
(fourth year), and includes the handling of-design in
monumental structures, and its application to modern
buildings, such as hospitals, theaters, municipal build- *
ings, libraries, churches, etc.
The program for the second year requires the ex-
ecution of nine minor, and nine major problems; that
for the third year of nine minor and six major prob-
lems ; that for the fourth year of four minor and three
major problems and the thesis.
Students of the Engineering Program will be given
Engineering problems exclusively beginning with the
second term of the third year.
[Seven, eight and twelve hours a week,
respectively, for three years.]
XIX.
Theory of Design. A thorough study of the prin-
ciples of planning and proportion supplemented by
study of the perfection and faults of the world’s most
famous buildings.
[One hour a week for two terms J
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	117
ASTRONOMY
Astronomy. Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students
and to give them the training and information neces-
sary for intelligently executing certain departments of
work to which they may be assigned in the course of
their professional career. The course comprises a
study of astronomical instruments as well as instru-
ments of more precision than those used in ordinary
surveying. The adjustment and use of these instru-
ments are considered, and instruction is given in meth-
ods of observation and computation; problems in find-
ing right ascensions and declination; different methods
for finding latitude, longitude and time are studied in
detail, and the methods of making the observation and
their adjustments, and discussion of errors. Conver-
sion of solar time into sidereal, and sidereal time into
solar. In connection with this subject is given a more
complete study of many of the topics considered in
elementary astronomy, as here they are treated math-
ematically; as for example, methods for finding paral- w
lax, computation of eclipses, altitudes and correction
for refraction. The subjects of procession, nutation,
annual aberration, proper motion of stars, etc., are
studied. Text-books, Young, Greene.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY
Lectures and Laboratory Work. Lectures on the
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
118
BULLETIN OF THE
pointed out. The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture me-
dia and in studying pure cultures of certain nonpatho-
Css
genic bacteria in these media. Observations on the
microscopic characteristics of bacteria and special at-
tention to the microscopic technique required in bacter-
iological work. Later on in the course some time is
devoted to practice in isolation and identification of
pathogenic bacteria. Emphasis is given to the detec-
tion of pathogenic germs by the various staining pro-
cesses. Inoculation of animals. Bacteriological in-
vestigation of water, air and soil. Text-book, Abbott's
Principles of Bacteriology.
[Three laboratory hours a week for one term.]
BOTANY
I.
Botany. Lectures and recitations on the morphol-
ogy of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the
development of the embryo and the processes of pollin-
ation and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell,
of its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and
the various physiological phenomena; the structure,
growth, reproduction and general classification of the
algae, fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher
plants. Text-book, Bastin's College Botany.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Botanical Laboratory. Supplementary to Course
I. Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryo-
phyta, pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in
Course I. Drawings must be made of all plants ex-
amined. Plants under these headings are collected and
put before the student that he may become familiar
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	119
with their morphology, structure and classification.
The course is to accompany or to be preceded by
Course I. Provision is also made in this course for
students in pharmacy to take a special laboratory
course in pharmaceutical botany. Study of the determ-
ination and classification of the simpler plants. The
analysis of the planerograms occupies the time during
the spring months and the student is made familiar
a
with the habitat and characteristics of the local flora.
Text-book for classification of plants. Kellerman's
Spring Flora.	.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
. *
Advanced Botany. Lectures, recitations, demon-
strations. The work of this course is essentially the
same as that laid out in Strasburger's qy Vine's text-
book of Botany. Special study is made of the physiol-
ogy, ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and classification of
plants. Text-book,s Strasburg er.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany. Supplement-
ary to Course III., and either following or accompany-
ing it:	. .
{a) Plant Histology and Physiology. Half of
the time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to
plant histology and physiology. The student is required
to study practically the method of killing, fixing, em-
bedding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing
of plant tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(b) Plant Classification Advanced. The other
half of the laboratory work is devoted to the determin-
ation and classification of the more difficult plants, the

120
BULLETIN OF THE
compositae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc. Her-
barium study is required, as well as preparing and
collecting plants for preservation. During spring and
autumn frequent excursions into the neighboring fields
and woods are mode for the purpose of studying and
collecting for preservation the local aquatic and land
flora. Text-book, Britton’s or Gray’s Manual.
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
Systematic Botany. Principally laboratory and
herbarium work in special groups of phanerograms
and cryptograms. Study of nomenclature and classi-
fication of plants. This course is designed to meet the
needs or inclinations of students specializing in bot-
any. Library, reference books and seminar work.
VI.
Graduate Work in Botany. Original research in
systematic botany. Plant histology and cytology.
Preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s Degree.
CHEMISTRY
I.
(a)	General Chemistry. A minor course deal-
ing with the general principles of chemistry and em-
bracing a study of only the commoner elements, and
their typical compounds. Text-book, Remsen’s Ele-
ments of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the labor-
atory the work of the Lecture Course (I. a.) and de-
signed to accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
■ UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	121
II.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures
and recitations. A complete study of the elements and
their most important compounds, following the classi-
fication based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a
discussion of the theories of the science. Text-book,
Alexander Smith's College Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(&) Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory
course to accompany Course III., the work con-
sisting of the preparation by the student of the ele-
ments and their more typical compounds, determina-
tion of molecular weights, verification of the funda-
mental laws of chemistry, etc. During the latter part
of the course, there is taken up the study of the reac-
tions involved in the separation and detection of the
more common inorganic bases and acids, the analysis
of salts, mixtures of salts, and the complex substances
such as earths, ores, ashes, etc. Text-books, Perkin
and Thorp, supplemented with lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Qualitative Analysis. A course arranged for
the students in Pharmacy, comprising a study of the
commoner metals and acids, their reactions and separa-
tion. Text-book, Perkin.
*
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Quantitative Analysis. A course suited to the
needs of the students in Pharmacy, comprising the
determination of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Text books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Four hours a week for one term.] -
122
BULLETIN OF THE
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of
the principles involved in the quantitative separation
and estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Complete analysis of a number of sim-
ple salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis of
many complex substances. Text-book, Olsen.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
(a) Elementary Organic Chemistry. Lectures
and recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocar-
bons and their derivatives, and the investigation of
their properties. Special attention is given to the ali-
phatic and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(&) Experimental Organic Chemistry. A
course fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the
preparation by the student in the laboratory of the
most important and typical organic compounds and
the investigation of their properties. Text-book, Gat-
terman's Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
(a)	Urine Analysis. A course of laboratory
exercises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as
well as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of
poisoning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
123
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
. VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Speci-
al courses, at the option of the student, in
i.	Gas Analysis.	.
ii.	Water Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and Fats.	(
vi.	Iron Analysis.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. (1) The
first term of this course is spent principally in the mak-
ing of organic preparations by methods demanding
special care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2) The
second term is' devoted to ultimate organic analysis,
qualitative and quantitive; analysis of carbon, hydro-
gen, the halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic
compounds by the various methods; also in the deter-
mination of molecular weights of organic compounds.
Text-books, special notes and reference work.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
124
BULLETIN OF THE
X.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this
course/ the chemical bases and their compounds are
considered, with special reference to their importance
in pharmacy and materia medica. Text-books, Sadt-
ler’s and Trimble’s Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
XL
(a)	Electrochemistry. Lectures, experiments
and recitations on the principles of electrochemistry
and their application in the chemical industries, separ-
ation of metals, the preparation of chemical elements
hnd electrosynthesis of compounds. Text-books, Clas-
sen and Liipke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XL (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electrochem-
istry, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electrometal-
lurgy. Quantitative determination of metals electro-
lytically. Text-books, Lupke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry. The subject is divided into ’
topics and epochs of special interest in the develop-
ment of chemistry as a science. These are discussed
at length, together with the biographies of the men
who aided in their development. Lectures and recita-
tions. Seminar and journal work for advanced stu-
dents. Text-book, Meyer. Reference to chemical peri-
odicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	125
XIII.
(a)	Physical Chemistry. Lectures, recitations
and demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of
gas density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the phase
rule, thermochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text- '
book, Van Deventer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Experimental Physical Chemistry. Lab-
oratory work to accompany Course XIII. (a). Va-
por density methods, calorimetric demonstrations,
molecular weight demonstrations by the freezing and
boiling’ point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical man-
ufacture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the labora-
tory of chemically pure substances, organic and inor-
ganic. Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric de-
terminations of inorganic substances. Special refer-
ence work.
[Five hours a wez.k for one term].
XVI.
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research *
work in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doc-
tor’s degree.
126
BULLETIN OF THE
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the
courses in Christian Doctrine.
FIRST YEAR
Moral. The Articles of the Creed. The General
Principles of Morality. Virtue and Sin. The Com-
mandments of God. Text-book, Manual of Christian
Doctrine.
SECOND YEAR
Moral. The Commandments of the Church. The
Evangelical Counsels and Beatitudes. Worship and
Means of Sanctification,—Grace, Prayer, the Sacra-
ments, Liturgy, Text-books, Manual of Christian Doc-
trine.
THIRD YEAR
Dogma. Revealed Religion. Pre-Christian Revela-
tion. The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church.
God Considered in Himself. Text-book, Wilmer’s
Handbook of the Christian Religion.
FOURTH YEAR
DOGMA. God the Creator. God the Redeemer.
Sanctification. Grace. The Sacraments. The Church
as a Means of Salvation. Text-book, Wilmer’s Hand-
book of the Christian Religion.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are con-
sidered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, double curved, and warped surfaces;
problems relating to tangent planes, to single curved,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	127
double curved, and warped surfaces; intersection of
surfaces; spherical projections; orthographic, stereo-
graphic, globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
construction of maps, shades and shadows; linear per-
spective; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises requir-
ing the application of the principles of Descriptive
Geometry, are added by the instructor. Text-book,
Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supplying
omissions; obstacles to measurement; computations;
field notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land;
dividing up land: public lands survey. Text-book,
Gillespie.	,
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Surveying. Field practice and application of the-
ory; adjustment and use of instruments in the field;
solution of problems in the field, the theory of which is
taught in the class room; practice in keeping field
notes; computation and plots.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
'	IV.
3
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II,
and cannot be taken until the completion of that course.
It treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds
'of engineering instruments; problems pertaining to
128
BULLETIN OF THE
solar attachment; topographical surveying with the
transit and stadia; mining surveying, mining claims;
survey of mines with shafts and drifts; determining
positions of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface;
theory of hydrographic and city surveying; geodetic
surveying and leveling; measuring base lines; adjust-
ments of angles, triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude
and azimuth; time and longitude; changing mean time
into sidereal time and sidereal time to mean time.
Text-book, Johnson,
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Surveying. Exercises in the field in the adjust-
ment and use of engineering instruments; stadia and
plane table surveying in the fields, leveling; practice
in hydrographic surveying.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Railroad Surveying. This course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum econ-
omy in grades and curves; location of curves by de-
flection angles and offsets: obstacles to location of
curves; special problems in curves; theory of com-
pound curves; turnouts and crossings; curving the
rail on curves and elevation of outer rail; easing grades
on curves; vertical curves; earthwork and prismoidal
formula; theory of excavation and embankment; cor-
rection in excavation on curves; cross-section leveling;
theory of the transition curve and practical applica-
tions. Text-book, Searle, Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
129
VII.
Railroad Surveying. Exercises in the field; stak-
ing out and running tangents, simple, compound and
transition curves; execution on the ground of many
problems previously treated theoretically; survey for
a short line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work,
and setting slope stakes; making profiles and maps;
calculating the necessary excavations and embank-
ments and cost of construction; culverts.
-	VIII.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is
to prepare students of engineering for the study of
the courses of applied mechanics. The course com-
prises a study of the fundamental principles of statics,
kinematics, and kinetics. The subjects selected are
studied with the object of thoroughly preparing the
engineering students to pursue the technical and prac-
tical branches of their respective courses. Some of
the topics considered in this course are: work, energy,
conservation of energy; power, composition and reso-
lution of forces, center of gravity, center of mass,
moment of inertia, acceleration, dynamics of rigid
bodies, laws of friction, etc. Text-book, Ziwet.
[.For Civil Engineering Students, five hours a week for first term.
Two hours a week for second term.]
[For students in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical and Mining
Engineering, four hours a week for 14 weeks.]
IX.
Geodesy. This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil and Mining Engineering students in the Jun-
ior year, and comprises a study of the instruments
and methods of observation, base measurements and
field work of the triangulation; method of least
squares, elementary course; calculation of the triangu-
130
BULLETIN OF THE
lation, and theory of probable errors; geodic latitudes,
longitudes, and azimuths. This is followed by a brief
discussion of the figure of the earth. Text-book, Mer-
rzman. [Four hours a week for one term.]
X.
Mechanics of Materials. This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students, and
to prepare them, by a study of the action and effect
of forces on beams and structures, to design economi-
cally and intelligently the parts entering into a com-
plete structure. The course comprises a study of the
elastic and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation
of the materials of engineering, their properties and
methods of testing, and discussion of cases of simple
stresses. The general theory of beams including cases
of simple and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed,
and continuous beams, is thoroughly investigated.
Columns are examined according to Euler’s, Rankine’s
and other formulae, and results compared. Some of
the other subjects considered in this course, are torsion
of shafts, the transmission of power by shafts, appar-
ent combined stresses, such as flexure and compres-
sion, flexure and torsion, etc. Compound columns
and beams, reinforced concrete beams, plate girders
and other forms. Then is studied the subjects, resi-
lience and work, impact and fatigue, true internal
stresses, centrifugal tension and flexure, unsymme-
tric loads on beams,—the course closing with a study
of the mathematical theory of elasticity. Text-book,
Merriman.
[For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a week for two
terms.]
[For students in Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and Chemical
Engineering, three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	131
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended to
familiarize the student with the practical details of
laying out and constructing highways, the method of
drainage, grading, and most suitable road covering,
the improvement of streets in cities and materials used
for paving and covering. The manner of preparing
the street before paving is placed in position is fully
considered and illustrated. The course includes a
thorough discussion of the theory of pavements and a
description of the various materials used, such as cob-
ble and stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood and broken
stone pavements. The method of preparing plans and
specifications for the various conditions arising are
considered and original plans are prepared by stu-
dents. Attention is also given to the construction of
street-car tracks in paved streets. Text-book, Baker.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering. This course is taken by students of
Civil engineering in the Senior year and teaches the
best approved methods of constructing engineering
works and the styles of structures suitable for differ-
ent localities. The study is quite comprehensive, in-
cluding the general theory of the arch and application
to the voussoir arch; the theory of earth pressure,- and
the design of retaining walls; foundations suitable for
structures of various classes in connection with which
the student becomes acquainted, not only with the
methods for ascertaining the bearing power of the
foundation, but also the means for constructing deep
foundations. The methods for tunnel construction,
sewer construction, irrigating canals, river improve-
132
BULLETIN OF THE
ments, are included in the course and given by text-
book and lectures. The part pertaining to masonry
construction includes a study of the properties of stone,
brick, mortar, the manner of testing foundations under
water, the crib and open caison process, the pneumatic
process, the theory of masonry arches and design, arch
centers, selection of site for bridge piers and arrange-
ment of spans, the details of construction of bridge
piers and manner of location, specifications for mason-
ry, etc. Text-books, Hozoe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
' Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study of
the principles and methods of drainage and disposal of
sewage in populous districts: shape, material and cal-
culation of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventila-
tion; separate and combined systems compared; pollu-
tion of rivers; chemical precipitation; results and
costs of purification; general municipal and domestic
sanitation; inspection of neighboring works. Text-
books, Staley and Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roofs. This course comprises a study
of the different systems of trussed bridges and roof
trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced
when loaded in any manner, the weight of the struc-
ture and the effect of wind included. Both graphical
and analytical methods are used. Besides the various
systems of trussed bridges, which are studied in de-
tail, the plate girders, suspension bridges, cantilever
bridges, draw bridges, and roofs of various designs
are given equal attention; the purpose being to fa-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	133
miliarize the student with the different forms and
enable him to design and to estimate the cost of con-
struction. Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the deter-
mina of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers
of gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically de-
termined by the application of the principles of the
force and equilibrium polygons; also the determination
of stresses in bridge trusses with parallel chords and
with broken chords, caused by uniform loads and lo-
comotive wheel loads: graphical determination. of
stresses in roof trusses, graphical treatment of the
arch symmetrical and unsymmetrical cases, graphical
methods of arch-ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed ends;
stress diagrams; temperature stresses; braced arches;
graphics applied to continuous girders. This course
is supplemented by full explanations, notes, examples,
and problems. Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
. XVI.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydro-
dynamics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects admitted are the transmission of pres-
sures, center of pressures; velocity of flow from ori-
fices of various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s the-
orem with friction: Chezy’s formula; Hutter’s formu-
la; flow over weirs, and ^through tubes; flow in pipes;
loss of head in friction and other losses; flow in con-
134
BULLETIN OF THE
duits, canals, and rivers; velocities in cross sections;
methods of gauging the flow, measurement of water
power, dynamic pressure of flowing water; designing
of waterworks and standpipes; hydraulic motors and
relative merits; discussion of water wheels of different
types, and a study of the conditions determining high
efficiencies; classification of turbines, and a complete
study and discussion of the different forms. Text-
book, Merriman.
(For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a week for two
terms.)
(For students in Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and Chemical
Engineering, three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.)
DRAWING, ARTISTIC
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough ■
foundation in drawing for those who wish to make
Art a profession, but the courses are so arranged as
to be accessible to other students. The system of teach-
ing, which is that followed in the best art schools, is
intended to develop the individuality of each student,
so that with a good understanding of the principles
of art he may interpret nature according to his own
temperament.	.
The work is done altogether from cast, object and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the Univer-
sity buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River
offer many beautiful subjects for the study of land-
scapes, and the classes are taken out in the summer
for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was carefully selected at the National School
of Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as fol-
lows:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	13§
Full Figure. The Diadumenos (British Museum) ;
the Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full
size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically:
the Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michel
Angelo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Lou-
vre) ; and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads. Asiaticus (Paris) ; Brutus
(Rome, the Capitol) ; Cato (Rome, the Vatican); Ci-
cero (Rome, the Capitol) ; Dante (Florence, Uffizi) ;
Agrippa (Louvre) ; Venus (Vatican) ; Centurion (Na-
ples) ; Ariadne (the Capitol) ; Psyche of Naples (Na-
ples) ; Vestal (Vatican) ; Niobe (Vatican) ; the Two
Daughters of Niobe (Florence).
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and
architectural ornaments, taken from monuments of
antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and
of elements of the human figure (hands, feet, etc.)
from the antique and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(a)	Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geo-
metrical, such ' as mouldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc.
Sketching from simple objects.
(.&) Drawing from casts of ornaments of which
the elements are living forms, such as ornamental
leaves and flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves
and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on
136	BULLETIN OF THE
perspective, direction of the principal lines in relation
to the horizon. Elementary notions of the five orders
of architecture.
t
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure;
hands, feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments.
Sketching from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a)	Drawing from the antique of heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from na-
ture. Selection of a subject. Composition in land-
scape. Applications of perspective.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Oc-
casional studies of the head from the living model.
Sketching from the costumed model. Still life in water
colors. History of Art.
III.
Life Class. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science Hall.
Still life painting in water colors and oil. Landscape
painting. Drawing for illustration.
IV.
Sketch Class. One hour a week. The students
have themselves an organization, “The Crayon Club,”
the object of which is to sketch college scenes and to
do illustrative work; these sketches are brought into
class and criticised.
V.
Modelling. One entire week in the spring terms of
the Sophomore, Junior and Senior years in Architec-

1*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
137
ture is devoted to modelling in clay. The objects mod-
elled are architectural forms, copied from the cast or
made from the student’s drawings of his own work, as
his progress and ability may warrant.
VI.
Class of Decorative Design. The object of this
department is to prepare students for professional
work in decorative designings of all kinds. They will
take up the study of historical ornaments and will be
taught the several principles of the arrangement of
designs, and from personal sketches of plants and
flowers will be shown the art of making original de-
signs for wall paper, book covers, stained glass, car-
pets, interior decorations, metal plates, etc. No par-
ticular program is given out as the teaching is purely
individual.
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
The instruction begins with sketching from blocks,
of various geometric forms, so that the hand and eye
may be trained in outline drawing in pencil and
pen. Then follows the study of light and shade.
After considerable practice and when a thorough
knowledge of freehand drawing has been acquired, the
use of instruments is taken up. Beginning with the
instruments, attention is given to accurate draughts-
manship upon plates, illustrating problems of Civil,
Electrical, Mechanical and Architectural Engineering.
This work is continued throughout the courses.
[Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for
each credit hour on the schedule.']
138
BULLETIN OF THE
I.
Freehand. This course consists of sketching with
pencil and pen from flat copies and models of machine
parts, and freehand lettering. Later in the term, the
use of instruments, section-lining and lettering are
taught. Text-book, Jamison’s Elements.
. [Three hours a week, for one term.]	’
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the
principles of projection,methods of shop-drawing, tint-
ing, tracing, blueprinting, line-shading and the pre-
paration of working drawings of complete machines.
This course must be preceded by Course I. Text-book,
Jamison’s Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates
is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective
and isometric projections. (Students in Architecture
are required to do advanced work in shades and shad-
ows and perspective.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing. Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involv-
ing the application of kinematics and the computation
of dimensions.
. [Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
139 ’
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course
I. Text-book, Reed.
VI.
Stereotomy. This course comprises a study of the
application of the principles of Descriptive geometry
to the determination of the forms and sizes of the
stones used in the construction of the different classes
of arches and masonry structures. This course is giv-
en by lectures in the drawing room, explaining the
construction of templates, and the use of directing
instrument; also explanations of methods of drawing
plans, elevation and development of oblique arches,
wing walls and the like. A certain number of plates
and drawings is required, illustrating the methods, of
performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sec-
tions of masonry construction, foundations, dams,
piers, abutments, culverts and arches. Text-book,
French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from sim-
ple framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of vari-
ous designs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineer-
ing. Complete design of a railroaod bridge and detail
drawings,—a short general course of bridge designing
for Seniors.
LThree hours a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Machine Drawing. A continuation of Course I.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine drawing
and the elementary principles of mechanical design
140	BULLETIN OF THE
with calculation of dimensions and construction of
drawings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low's
Machine Drawing and Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
■IX.
Freehand. The principles of freehand drawing in
pencil and pen from objects, and later from biological
specimens, plants, animals and microscopical prepara-
tions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
x. t
Freehand. Advanced drawing from plants and
anatomical dissections of animals. Illustrations for
publications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Water Color. Drawing in water color from still
life and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.	‘
Rendering in Water Color. The rendering of
architectural drawings, including perspectives,—cast-
ing of shadows, color treatments of buildings and
handling of foreground and background.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIII.
Pen and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art; fol-
lowed by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	141
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
“ I.
Applied Electricity. A course of lectures and
recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on
the general theory of electricity and magnetism and
its application to practical work, as follows: Setting
up and testing primary and secondary batteries, sys-
tems of call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances,
fire and burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines,
switch boards and accessories. Experiments with in-
duction coils, magnets, switches, voltmeters, ammeters,
wheatstone bridges, galvanometers and other measur-
ing instruments. The study of direct current genera-
tors and motors, arc and incandescent lighting sys-
tems, street railway machinery and appliances, electric
heating and forging, electrolytic process, etc. Text-
book, Swoope’s Practical Electricity.
{Students in Architecture spend one term in this
course.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Applied Electricity. Lectures and laboratory
work on the construction and testing of switches, mag-
nets, measuring instruments, induction coils, etc. The
calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for
lighting and power, the experimental study of alter-
nating current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in hand-
ling tools in his workshop, he may design and build
a small dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all
the fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and
finally testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptibility
to special purposes. This course must be preceded by
142
BULLETIN OF THE
Course I (Courses I. and II. are required in the Short
Program Electrical Engineering; they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy.)
tFive hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery. Recitations on the
physical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions
and reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points,
theory of armature winding, the mathematical theory
of alternating currents, phase relations, modern forms
of single phase and multiphase generators and motors,
design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon's Dynamo
Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason's Alternating
Currents.	-
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Electrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring
buildings for lights and power, testing circuits for in-
sulation and grounds, construction and operation of
storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
characteristic curves of particular machines under dif-
ferent conditions, efficiency tests of motors by absorp-
tion dynamometer methods, alternating current dyna-
mo and transformer tests, the testing of storage bat-
teries, and complete plant efficiency tests. Careful
notes are taken.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
V.
DESIGNING. The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance, and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location
of circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawings
0
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	143
of direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying
out plants for power and lighting. ,
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I.
Readings and Declamations. This course is de-
signed to correct defects in pronunciation and empha-
sis. Each student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
. II.
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of
Course I. Each student is required to give three dec-
lamations.
* [One hour a week for one term.]
.	HI.
Practical Elocution. Exercises in breathing,
voice culture, and action. The principles of pronun-
ciation and emphasis and their application in the read-
ing of selections. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood"s
Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Practical Elocution. Further exercises in breath-
ing, voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and
time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures
on the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and
Trueblood’s Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
V.
Oral Discussions. The application of formal logic
to debating. Analysis of selected argumentative
144
BULLETIN OF THE
speeches, and the preparation of briefs. Courses III.
and IV. and a course in logic are required for admis-
sion to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-four
students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Oratory. A study of the great orators of ancient
and modern times.0 Each student is required to write
and deliver a biographical oration on one of the great
orators. Lectures on methods of public address.
Courses III. and IV. above, and Course I. in English
are required for admission to this course. Sections are
limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VII.
Shakespearean Reading. The critical and artistic
reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied
with stage action. The students present the play by
scenes before the class. Courses III. and IV. are re-
quired for admission to this course. Sections are lim-
ited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
vm.
Assembly Work. This course is designed to sup-
plement the other courses in this department. It con-
sists of debates, short orations, minute speeches,
declamations, impromptu and drill work in parliamen-
tary law.
[One hour a week for four terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
145
ENGLISH
I.
(a)	Sheran’s Handbook of Literary Criticism.
[Three hours a week for twenty-six weeks for
Engineering Students.]
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks for Art
and Letters students.]
(b)	Essay and Oration. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week ,for twelve weeks for Arts and Letters
students.]
(c)	Sears’ Methods and Principles of Criticism.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
II.
(a)	Sheran’s Handbook of Literary Criticism.
[Two hours a week for fourteen weeks]
(b)	Catholic Authors.
[One hour a week for fourteen weeks.]
(c)	Poetry and The Poets. Texts, theory and
critical study. Page’s American and English Poets.
Corson’s A Primer of Verse.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and as-
signed readings. •
III.
Fiction, (a) The Short Story, technically, his-
torically and critically considered.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b) The Novel, technically, historically and crit-
ically considered.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and as-
signed readings.
146
BULLETIN OF THE
IV.
The Drama, (c) Hennequin’s The Art of Play-
writing.
[Thi'ee hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of
Shakespeare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen weeks.]
(c)	Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present
time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects specified attention will be
given to current productions with a view of properly
acquainting the student with the writers of the day.
Graduate Work in English. Students wishing to
do advanced work in English will be provided with
library facilities and led through the usual work for
the degree of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philoso-
phy.
The major subject on approval of the Faculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form
or epoch, or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lec-
tures by professors make up the course.
GEOLOGY
I.
Geology, Principles of. Lectures, recitations, de-
monstrations. The study of the general features of the
earth; the material composing the accessible parts of
the earth; the arrangements of the material in rocks;
the causes of geological changes; the history of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME. ■	147
earth and the various forms of life that existed in the
different periods of successive geological ages. Text-
book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Mineralogy. The object of this course is to train
the student to identify minerals by their physical
characteristics, such as crystal form, cleavage, color,
hardness and specific gravity without having to resort
to blowpipe or chemical tests except in the rare min-
erals. Recitations are made upon drawers of minerals
in which the student points out the distinguishing fea-
tures by which he recognizes the different minerals.
Text-book, Dana.
[Five hours for one term, three hours for one term.]
III.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classifica-
tion of minerals, accompanied by practice in the labor-
atory and museum in the determination of minerals,
especially the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book,
Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Crystallography. In this course there is made a
complete study of the laws in the different systems of
crystal formation, by means of laboratory work in
models, natural crystals and cleavage specimens. Text-
book, Williams. -
V.
Petrography. This course is a study of rocks with
regard to their classification, structure, mineralogical
148
BULLETIN OF THE
constituents, chemical composition and alterations; a
study of the physical characters of the minerals shown
in thin transparent rock sections, with the aid of the
microscope; a practical study of rocks in the hand
specimens and also in summer field work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Geology, Physical and Chemical. A course
treating of the origin and alterations of rocks, of gen-
eral eruptive and earthquake action, metamorphism,
faulting, jointing, and mountain building: the action
of atmospheric agencies, surface and underground
waters. All of which subjects are specially considered
in their application to mining pursuits. Text-book,
Chamberlin and Salisbury’s Geology.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.	'
Geology, Economic Mining. A study of the gene-
sis of the useful ore deposits, both metallic and non-
metallic; an analysis of the relation existing between
^structural, dynamic and chemical geology, petrography
and the ore deposits encountered in mining operations.
Frequent reference is made to the bulletins, mono-
graphs and reports of the United States Geological
Survey. Lectures and recitations.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
GERMAN
I.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation from German into
English of simple prose; translation of English exer-
cises into German. Reading of short stories and se-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	149
lections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history. Sight
reading of selections from history.
Hermann and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein,
Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems
and prose writing. Translation' of selections from his-
tory and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm (Lessing) ; Best known po-
. ems, (Heine) ; Correspondence (Schiller-Goethe.)
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK
I.
Lysias. Orations selected. Short history of the
Attic orators.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Epitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., V.,
Stoffel.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Lysias. Orations selected.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St. John Chrysostom. Eutropius.
IS

150	BULLETIN OF THE
Herodotus. Selection. Study of Herodotus’ dia-
lect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Basil. De Frofanis Scriptoribus.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Herodotus. Selections.
Selection from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Gregory. Machabees.	"
[Four hours a week for one term.]
V.
Demosthenes. The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics. Review of the political
situations at Athens and events bearing upon the ora-
tions.
Thucydides. Book I. Greece before the Pelopon-
nesian War. Importance of this war in Greek history.
The speeches will form the subjects for special class
interpretations. Stylistic differences between pure
Attic and archaic will be pointed out.
During this course special attention will be given to
textual and exegetical criticism, practically shown by
. passages selected for that purpose. This is done in the
belief that it is the best way to make students appre-
ciate the notes in school editions of classical authors.
Practical Exercises—Embodying idiomatic ex-
pressions of the authors read.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Aeschylus. One play, to vary each year. In con-
nection with it will be discussed the origin of the dra-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	151
ma, the part of the chorus in the early tragedy and the
religious tenets of Aeschylus. The structure of a
Greek tragedy, the iambic trimeter and the lyric
meters will be sufficiently explained so as to be properly
appreciated by the students. Incidentally also the
Greek festivals, at which the plays were staged, and
the Dionysiac theater will be discussed.
Sophocles. Oedipus Tyrannus and Antigone.
Digest of the Theban legends. Religious views of Soph-
ocles compared with those of Aeschylus.
Elements of Greek Literature. Students shall
use Jebb’s Primer of Greek Literature.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIL
Euripides. • One play, to vary each year. Religious
tendencies of Euripides. His style is compared with
that of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Dramatic art, and
his right to the title of “Scenic Philosopher.”
. Aristophanes. One play, selected from the follow-
ing list: The Acharnians, the Knights, the Frogs, the
Clouds, the Birds, or the Wasps. In connection with the
reading of these plays will be treated the Greek com-
edy,—its origin, nature, and aim. Aristophanes, the
great burlesque critic of Athenian life and manners.
The structure of a comedy compared with that of a
tragedy.
Practical Exercises in Greek Composition.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Pindar. Selected Odes, in connection with which
the public games will be studied. Elective.
Greek Fathers. St. Basil. The Martyr Gordius.
St. John Chrysostom. The return of Bishop Flavian.
152
BULLETIN OF THE
St. Gregory Nazianzen. Funeral Oration of Caesarius.
Elective.
Plato. Apology and Crito. Socrates—his friends
and enemies. Athenian court proceedings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Greek. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Greek language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who look forward to
the Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work
will be the Greek seminar, devoted to the interpretation
of passages selected for that purpose by the director of
the seminar, and to a critical study of one particular
author or of a group of authors in the same department
of Greek literature; as Tor instance, Homer, Plato or
the orators, the historians, the dramatists, etc.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of comparative philology, on
comparative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
For those who desire a broader basis for their lin-
guistic studies, an elementary course in Sanskirt will
be offered.
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of
the Hellenic worlc^ Readings and examinations on re-
quired texts. This course is given in alternate years
with Course I.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions.
Readings, and examinations of required texts. This
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
153
course is given in alternate years with Course I. (a).
In both courses, the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges' The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for two terms.],
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
II.
(a) The History of the Middle Ages from the
invasion of the barbarians, and the history of the per-
iods of the Renaissance and the Reformation of 1603.
Readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(D) The General History of Europe from the
beginning of the seventeenth century to the- present
time. Readings, and examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
HI.
The History of the British Isles to the Revo-
lution in 1869. For the narrative Gardiner's Stu-
dents' History is usedsas a text and is supplemented by
lectures. In the study of the development of political
institutions Feilden's Constitutional History is used.
In addition, students shall make free use of the library
in preparing special topics upon which they shall re-
port orally in class.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY.
IV.
(a)	American History from Its Beginning to
1763. A large part of the work of this and the fol-
lowing course consists in the preparation and present-
ation in class of special topics by the students. An
154
BULLETIN OF THE
effort will be made to train the student in the use of
original sources as well as in the discriminating use of
secondary works. Weekly written tests are given upon
the lectures and the assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(b)	American History from 1763 to the Pres-
ent Time. Treatment as in (a) above. Also a book
review, a bibliographical report and a biographical es-
say by each student.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(c)	American Church History from* Its Be-
ginning to the Present Time.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
Research Work in History. Facilities are of-
fered to- graduate students who wish to do advanced
work in history leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s
degree. Evidence to begin specializing must be given
by candidates who have received their Bachelor’s de-
gree at another College. The work is directed in the •
seminar and is supplemented by lectures.
V.
Irish History from Its Beginning to the Pres-
ent Time.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
LATIN
I.
«
Livy. Selections. Study of Livy’s grammar and
style.
Cicero. Epistles selected.
Vergil. Aeneid.
Prose Composition. Frequent practice in writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
155
II.
Livy. Selections. .
Cicero. De Senectute and De Amicitia.
Pliny. Epistles selected.
Prose Composition. Frequent writing of contin-
uous prose.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
Cicero. De Oratore. Book I.
Horace. Odes and Epodes. Study of metrical sys-
tems ; peculiarities of styles; plan of composition; com-
parison with Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice
in writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Tacitus. Dialogus De Oratoribus.
Horace. Odes and Epodes; or, Satires selected.
See Course III.
Terence. Phormio. Short history of Greek and
Roman Comedy.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice
in writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
V.
Livy. Roman History, First Book. In the reading
of the text particular attention is called to the rules of
syntax—roots and derivation of words—and the an-
cient history, geology and mythology.
Latin Composition twice a ’ week, either para-
phrases or original. Short fables and stories.
Horace. Epistola ad Pisones translated, analyzed
156
BULLETIN OF THE
and criticised from a philological and literary stand-
point. '	.
’ Ancient Literature. Historians and Lyric Poets:
’ their lives, their works, their genius.
VI.	°
Tacitus. Agricola and Germania. While reading
the text a comparison is made with the private and
public manners of modern nations.
TERENCE. Andria. Sight reading.
Horace. The Literary Epistles.
Weekly practice in written composition, Latin con-
versation and versification.
Ancient Literature. Dramatists of Greece and
Rome compared and discussed.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Quintilian. De Institutione Oratoria, Books
Tenth and Twelfth. Translation. The explanation
embraces a literary criticism of Grecian and Roman
orators, and practical remarks on Latin idioms and the
fine arts of antiquity.
Short orations or dissertations, and practical con-
versations take place weekly.
Plautus. Captivi. The study of the play gives a
full knowledge of the characters, the plot, the style,
the archaic forms and the construction peculiar to the
author.	’
Ancient Literature. Orators, especially Demos-
thenes and Cicero.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	157
vni.
Cicero. De Officiis. Partly sight reading. Besides
the study of the work from a philological standpoint,
the student is made acquainted wTith the main sys-
tems of Grecian philosophy, and continual reference is
made to Course III. in philosophy.
Oratorical and philosophical composition alternate
weekly. Latin conversations on general topics.
Lucretius. De Rerum Natura. Select passages.
Synopsis of the poem. Statement and refutation of
erroneous philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy
with the errors of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature. Philosophers, particularly
Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Latin. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Latin language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who are candidates for
the degree of Master or Doctor. The work will be
directed in the seminar and be devoted to a critical
study of one particular author or group of authors.
The work of the seminar wil be supplemented by
lectures on comparative philology and comparative
grammar.
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the
binomial thereom, the theory of logarithms, choice,
chance, variables and limits, series, determinants. Then
follows a thorough study of the general properties and
solution of equations, embracing the subjects of deriva-
158
BULLETIN OF THE
fives, transformation, detached coefficients, surd and
imaginary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of
roots, biquadratic equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s
rules; Sturm’s theorem; Horner’s method. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IL
Analytic Geometry. This course includes a study
of the point and right line; conic sections; their equa-
tions and properties; discussion of the general equa-
tion of the second degree containing two variables; dif-
ferent systems of coordinates; transformation of co-
ordinates; an elementary course in geometry of three
dimensions, embracing the point, straight line, plane
and surfaces of revolution; transformation of coordi-
nates; quadric surfaces and supplementary proposi-
tions. Text-book, Bailey and Woods,
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Calculus, Differential. This course as also
Courses IV. and V. is designed to meet the require-
ments of Engineering students. It includes a study of
the methods for the differentiation of algebraic, loga-
rithmic and exponential, trigonometric, and inverse
trigonometric functions, successive differentiation, and
differential coefficients; treatment of implicit and com-
pound functions; expansion of functions; indetermi-
nate forms; partial differential coefficients of the first
order and of higher orders; direction of curvature;
radius of curvature; envelopes; maxima and minima
of functions of one independent variable, and of sever-
al independent variables; tracing curves; differentials
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
159
of arcs, plane areas, surfaces and volumes of revolu-
tion. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
a
IV.
Calculus, Integral. Integration of elementary
form and of rational fractions; integration by ration-
alization and by parts; successive integration; multiple
intregals; definite intregals, limits of intregation;
double intregation applied to plane areas; rectification
of plane curves; quadratures of plane areas and sur-
faces of revolution; surface and volume of any solid;
intrinsic equation of ^a curve. This course is supple-
mented by numerous exercises and examples. Text-
book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for three mouths.]
Differential Equations. An elementary ‘ course
for Engineering students, supplementary to the course
of integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and first degree: equations of the first order, but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equa-
tions with higher orders. Numerous applications to
mechanics and physics are introduced during the
course. Text-book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Advanced Work. The prescribed courses in pure
mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following ad-
vanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
160
BULLETIN OF THE
The number of students required to constitute a class
in any one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith,
Crystal. (b) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Tod-
hunter, Lock, (c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir,
(d) Theory of Equations, Burnside and Panton.
(e) Advanced Calculus, Beyerly, Todhunter, William-
son. (f.) Advanced Analytic Geometry, Salmon, (g)
Analytic Geometry of Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost,
Salmon, (h) Quaternions, Hardy with Kelland and
Tait as reference.
[Three hours’arecitation a week for one subject.]
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I.	.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study .of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam.. The
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condenser, re-
frigerating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied
in detail. During the second term a study of the diffi-
cult types of internal combustion engines is made to-
gether with a general study of casts in operating pow-
er plants. Frequent reference is made to trade cata-
logues, of which an abundant supply should be obtain-
ed by the student. Text-book, The Steam Engine, by
Holmes.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II-	.
Materials of Engineering. This course, supple-
mented by shop work and laboratory work in testing
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
161
materials of construction, is designed for the purpose
of acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact. The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up,'and estimates of the
cost of construction at market prices complete the
work. Text-book, Thurston's Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Steam Engine Design. In this course the forms
and sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions
and advantages and adaption of special forms of en-
gines for specific work are taken up, giving the student
a thorough 'knowledge of constructive detail. The lat-
est researches and contemporary practice may be con-
sulted in the numerous publications found in the Uni-
versity Library. During the first term of the Senior
year is required the complete design with working
drawing of a simple non-condensing steam engine for
specific purpose. The second term is given to design-
ing a multiple expansion, jacketed, condensing engine
for marine service. The text-book used is Whitham’s
Steam Engine Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of parts
from consideration of strains, thickness of shells, size
of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of con-
nection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces and life
of boiler, are some of the subjects considered. The
162	BULLETIN OF THE
method of determining the efficiency of fuels, heating
surface, heights of chimneys, boiler settings and mater-
ials used in connection are also discussed. Text-book,
Steam Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the vari-
ous parts of an elementary combination and the con-
straining of the parts to move in these paths. The gen-
eral theory is then applied to cams and gear teeth, the
relative motion of machine parts and kinematic trains,
belts, pulleys, speed cones, link work and other aggre-
gate combinations. Barr's Kinematics of Machinery
is the text-book used.
[Three hours recitation and two hours drawing a week for one
term.]
VI.
Machine Design. This work involves a study of
the form and strength of machine parts as applied in
designing, with computation of dimensions for fasten-
ings, bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing,
etc. The derivation of rational formulae and the de-
termination of empirical formulae are included and ap-
plied in designing. The text-books used are Unwin's
Elements of Machine Design, Low's Handbook for Me-
chanical. Engineers and Reed's Machine Design and
Drawing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Valve Gears. This course includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to side valves and
the principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	163
gears, such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and
Joy are treated in the same way, and in conclusion the
student is made familiar with the various types of
Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics and link motions.
The text-book is Halsey’s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.] .
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory. The work taken up in-
cludes a study of the methods of testing the steam en-
gine under varying running conditions, valve setting,
calibration of thermometers, gauges and indicator
. springs, use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dyn-
amometers, Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc.
Text-book, Carpenter’s Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Steam Engines and Boilers. A brief course in the
study of boilers and steam engines designed to famil-
iarize the student with the different types in use and
their respective merits. Only that theory is taken up
which is necessary to the working out of practical
problems, the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission, by Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extending
over two terms, is given to a general description study
of all the types of gas- engines and explosive motors.
The general construction of gas, oil and vapor engines
is studied together with their adaptation to various
uses.
164
BULLETIN OF THE
Results due to change iiT ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid; methods of speed regulation
and government and the details of auxiliaries as,
pumps, carburettors, hot tubes, batteries, spark coils
and dynamos are dwelt upon. The text-book used is
Gas, Oil and Vapor Engines by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the ther-
modynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-
book, lectures and drawing board. The major subjects
taken up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due to .
gas pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine
parts. Lucke’s Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing a week
for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete working
up from the rough castings and forgings of a small type
of gas engine. This is part of the thesis work for stu-
dents in the Short Program and requires the complete
machining and assembling of the engine and must be
preceded by Courses XI. and XII.'
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Laboratory. Indicator practice, com-
mercial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regula-
tion. Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction,
carburettors and vaporizers. Test of engine construct-
ed by the student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
165
SHOPWORK.
XIV.
(a)	Woodwork. Exercises in planing, splicing,
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Application of Carpentry to pattern mak-
ing, cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe
joints, cranks and bearings.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(c)	Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core mak-
ing.	.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(d)	Iron Forging, welding annealing, shaping,
tool making, tempering and case hardening.
[Three 'hours a week for one term.] .
(e)	Benchwork in iron, including surface chip-
ping, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(f)	Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shafting and
milling machines. Construction of machine tools, ream-
ers, taps, twist drills, gear wheels and complete ma-
chines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Thesis. Each candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Engineering must present for graduation a thesis of
considerable magnitude which will exhibit his knowl-
edge of the courses he has followed. It may embrace
designing, experimental investigation or original re-
searches a subject selected by the student and approved
166
BULLETIN OF THE
by the professor. The major part of the second term,
Senior year, is devoted to this work, and graduation
is conditional upon the knowledge of mechanical en-
gineering displayed in its preparation.
METALLURGY -
I.
Metallurgy. Among the subjects studied in this
course are the following—classification of ores, samp-
ling, crushing, milling practice, roasting and smelting;
the various extraction processes of the following met-
als—gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, are given spe-
cial attention; the production of pig iron in blast fur-
naces.
A trip of inspection is made to smelting plants, blast
furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order to fa-
miliarize the student with metallurgic plants in opera-
tion.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
n.
Assaying. This course consists of a series of actual
determinations of the quantity and value of gold, silver
and lead in the various ores by the crucible and scori-
fication methods of the fire assay; the assaying of gold
and silver bullion; determining the strength of cyanide
working solutions; the assay of gold bearing cyanide
solutions; and wet determinations of copper and zinc.
[Eight hours a week for one term.]
III.
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace as-
saying of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	167
MINING ENGINEERING
I.
Mining Engineering, Principles of. This course
includes a general study of Mining operations divided
into the following subjects: Occurence of minerals in
the earth’s crust, discovery, boring, excavation, sup-
porting excavations, exploitation, haulage, hoisting,
drainage, ventilation, lighting access, ore dressing and
treatment. Text-book, Foster and Brough.
MICROSCOPY
I.
Microscopy. Lectures and laboratory work. Re-
fraction and dispersion of light and illumination. The
index of refraction in different media. Different shapes
of lenses. Spherical and chromatic abberration. The
selection and care of a good microscope. The use of
accessories for advanced work; immersion and adjust-
able objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser,
polarizer, micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-
micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Micro-Chemistry. Laboratory work. The prepa-
5
ration of micro-chemical reagents and their application
in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and
mounting tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
168
BULLETIN OF THE
MUSIC
FIRST YEAR
I.
Violin. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte. Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonati-
nas and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke
and Mozart. Jugend Album and Kinderscenen by
Schumann.
HI.
Voice Production. Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breath-control. Articulation. Text-book, Shakespeare’s
Art of Singing, Part I.; Kofler’s Art of Breathing;
Studies by Bassini, English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Elementary Theory of
Music. Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
IV.
Organ. Rink Organ School. Eugene Thayer
Studies, Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR
la.
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sona-
tas, and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
Ila.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,
Lecouppy; Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
169
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann, Schubert.
Illa.
Voice Production. Advanced breathing exercises.
Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke of
the glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing,
Parts IL and III. Studies from Italian operas; French
• and English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IVa. .
ORGAN. Schneider-Warren Pedal Studies, Easy
sonatas, by Mendelssohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Pre-
ludes, fugues by Bach. Twenty studies by Whiting.
Canonic Studies by Chadwick.
Va.
Harmony. Construction and use of chords. Har-
monization of melodies. Harmonizing from figured
bass. Text-books, Goetshius Tone Relations; Logier’s
Harmony.
THIRD YEAR
lb.
Violin. Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alward, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelssohn, Dvorak.
lib.
Pianoforte. Gradus ad Par anas sum, Clementi-
Tausig. Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. Eng-
lish and French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Harberbier
170
BULLETIN OF THE
and Henselt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Bee-
thoven, Weber, Mendelssohn, Chopin, Schubert and
Grieg.
Illb.
Voice Production. Study of trill ,mordent, grup-
petto, etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb.
Organ. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome,
Whistling, Best, Rheinberger.
Harmony. Counterpoint. Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpoint. Canon,
fugue.
FOURTH YEAR
Ic.
Violin. Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Burch, Joachim and others.
He.
Pianoforte. Studies by Tausig and Chopin. So-
natas, concertos and concert pieces by Schumann,
Brahms, Rubinstein, Liszt.
Hie.
Organ. The greater preludes, fantasies and fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Guilment and Saint-Saens.
IVc.
Harmony. Composition. Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical applica-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
171
tion in an original manner of these forms. Orchestra-
tion.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on the viola, flute, piccolo,
cornet, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of
playing in the University Orchestra and the University
Band.
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of musical students open
only to those taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir
and the Glee Club are selected from the members of
this class.
PHARMACY
I.
Elements of Pharmacy. Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstra-
tions of the various pharmaceutical processes. Text-
book, Remington’s Practice of Pharmacy.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy. A laboratory course to
accompany Course I. This course consists of the prac-
tical application of the pharmaceutical processes to the
manufacture of official preparations of the United
States Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. F. prep-
arations.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy. Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation
172
BULLETIN OF THE
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
General Pharmacy. A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint, followed by a close study
of each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Magistral Pharmacy. Includes the manifold
methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with considera-
tion of incompatibility, posology, and the principles of
elegant pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription prac-
tice.
[Three hours a week for noe term.]
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry. Chiefly assaying,
testing and manufacturing. Determination of melting
and boiling points, and solubilities. Some attention is
given, also, to toilet and commercial preparations with
a view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
General Pharmacy. Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectroscop-
ic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of‘man-
ufacture. Food analysis.
VIII.
Materia Medica. This work embraces a detailed
consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, therar
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
173
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is
given also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin.
They are studied individually at first, then in classes or
groups.
[Three hours a week for three terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic. This work includes
a study of weights and measures, percentage, relation-
ship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alli-
gation and chemical problems. '
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.
Pharmacognosy.- The identification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with spe-
cial reference to quality and detection of adulteration.
Attention is also given to the methods of preventing
loss by improper storage or by the ravages of insects.
Important drugs are studied under the microscope in
cross section and in powder form.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
PHILOSOPHY
I.
(a)	Physiological Psychology. This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of
consciousness.
(b)	Experimental and Descriptive Psychology.
The primary laws of consciousness; psycho-physical
methods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive. Lectures three
hours a week for two terms.]
174
BULLETIN OF THE
(d)	Laboratory Exercises. Experiments will be
conducted with special reference to their value as aids
to introspection. Sanford’s Manual of Experimental
Psychology, Tichener’s Experimental Psychology, Vol.
I.
[Une hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Elements of Epistemology. A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teach-- *
ings of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkley, Hume,
Kant and Spencer.
(This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and Gen-
eral Metaphysics and will be given at the beginning of the year
during the time prescribed for these studies.)
(b)	Logic. Hyslop’s Elements of Logic.
[Two hours each week for two terms.]
(c)	General Metaphysics. Transcendental con-
cepts : their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(d)	Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(e)	Theodicy. The existence of God; His attri-
butes; His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(f)	Student Discussions. From time to time
throughout the year students will be required to read
and discuss papers on various subjects in the field of
philosophic inquiry.
III.
(a)	Ethics. The theory of morals, with special
reference to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	175
(b)	Outlines of the History of 'Philosophy.
Turner's History of Philosophy.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work
in the department of philosophy, leading to the degree
of Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students
who have pursued the courses described above. Can-
didates who have made undergraduate studies else-
where must give evidence of ability to begin specializ-
ing at once. In the first and second years, research
work will be conducted in the seminar and the psycho-
logical laboratory. In the last year, students will have
the benefit of frequent consultation with the profes-
sors.
PHYSICS
I.
(a)	Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and mag-
netism are presented. The course is intended to meet
the needs of those who desire a general knowledge of
the subject, as well as to lay the foundations for ad-
vanced work. Particular attention is paid to the cor-
rect statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or re-
learn. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.	,
LThree hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
176
BULLETIN OF THE
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and cor-
rect deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of
all experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given
in Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to
physical phenomena. Special attention is paid to ac-
curacy in the mathematical work and in the statements
of the principles involved. Lectures and recitations.
Text-book, Hastings and Beach.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physical Problems. The application of mathemat-
ics in physical work. Measurements of length, mass
and time. Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, elec-
tricity and magnetism. The work is done in the lab-
oratory and the student is taught to depend on his own
resources and to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Special advanced work in
heat, light, mechanics, sound, electricity and magne-
tism. Accuracy in observations and in the calculation
and recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they
are following. This course must be preceded by Courses
II and III.	_
[Three hours a week for two terms.] '
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	177
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a)	This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton's Text-book of
Hitman Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstra-
tions required.
(b)	Laboratory work consisting of a selected num-
ber of experiments so arranged as to give the student a
fair insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c)	A limited number of microscopical prepara-
tions are required to be made by each student, and he
must examine a set of typical preparations in order to
acquire a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure
of the tissues and organs of the human body.
(d)	During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
LThree recitations and one laboratory period for two terms.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (d) and may select either (b) or (c).
II.
(a)	This course comprises a complete study of
human physiology such as is required of students of
medicine. The lectures, recitations and demonstrations
are based upon Kirke's Handbook of Physiology and
Hall's Text-book of Physiology. The student will have
free access to a copy of The American Text-book of
Physiology for special reference.
178	BULLETIN OF THE
(b)	Laboratory work in experimental physiology.
The manual used is Hall’s Experimental Physiology,
but the student will have free access to a number of
other similar works.
[Four recitation hours and two laboratory periods
for two terms.]
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
I.
The Elements of Economics. A general survey of
the subject based upon the study and discussion of
Seager’s Introduction to Economics.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.	.
Industrial History and the History of Econom-
ic Thought. Studies in the Evolution of Industrial
Society by Ely, and in a History of Political Economy
by Ingram.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
(a)	Money, Credit and Banking, with special
treatment of the monetary experiences of the United
States. The text-book used is Money and Banking by
White.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Public Finance. History of finance, expendi-
ture, revenue and debt of States, with special reference
to American experience. Lectures and text.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
179
IV.
Distribution. Rent, interest, wages, profits. Spe-
cial studies in land and labor problems and Socialism.
The text-book used is The Distribution of Wealth by
Carver. For readings, Labor Problems by Adams and
Sumner, Progress and Poverty by George, Collectivism
by Vandervelde, Contemporary Socialism by Rae, and
others.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLITICS
V.
The Elements of Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics, Lilly.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
American Government and Politics. Text, Actual
Government, Hart.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Jurisprudence. A course covering -(a) the outlines
of the Science of Law. (b) The elements of Interna-
tional Law. (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman
and Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and examinations -
on required texts.
SOCIOLOGY
VIII.
The Elements of Sociology. Text, Elements of
Sociology, Giddings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
180
BULLETIN OF THE
IX.
Graduate Work in Political Science. Advanced
courses in economics, politics and sociology are pro-
vided for graduate students who wish to receive the de-
gree of Master or Doctor.
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these lan-
guages. In the study, however, of Old French and
Provencal, special attention will be paid to philology.
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the in-
flection of nouns and adjectives, the use of alb the pro-
nouns, the conjugation of regular and common irregu-
lar verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses; the
essentials of French syntax, and the common idiomatic
phases. Reading of three of the following works: La
Tache du Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de Conscience,
Gervais; La Main Malheureuse, Guerber; Sans Famille,
Malot; Readings from French History, Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of idi-
oms, memorizing. Dictations and conversations on
practical topics, and careful reading of five of the fol-
lowing works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
181
Choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moli-
ere; Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees
' de Chateaubriand; La Question d’Ar gent, Dumas;
Standard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study in this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of French literature; besides a translation and
criticism of the best writers, such as: Causeries du
Lundi, Ste. Beuve; On Rend V Argent, Coppee; Her-
nani, Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine;
L’Avare, Moliere; Mlle, de la Seigliere, Sandeau; Les
Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedi-
tion de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de
Hongrie, Montalembert; Histoire de la Litterature
Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Cabal-
lero, Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Sama-
niego, and Iriate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and nine-,
teenth centuries, with composition and the history of
the literature of the period.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
182
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth cen-
turies : Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of
the literature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Early Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the fifteenth century.
ITALIAN
A two years’ course. The chief work of the courses
is a critical study of Dante's Divina Cornmedia. Read-
ing from Tasso, Ariosto's Satires and Manzoni.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
o
PORTUGESE
I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, Wall. Read-
ings: Perfil do marquez de Pombal, Camillo Castello
Branco; Noveljas Historicas, Pinheiro Chagas; Lendas
e narrativas, Herculano; Campo de flores, Joao de
Deus.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Sermoes, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Ca-
moes. History of Portuguese literature.
. OLD FRENCH
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying
the formation of the French language from the popu-
lar Latin. For this purpose a work like Brachet's
Grammaire Historique will be studied. It is under this
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	183
i
point of view that Old French authors will be read, es-
pecially La Chanson de Roland.	.
PROVENCAL
J
Language and literature, with reading from the
works of the Troubadours.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
ZOOLOGY
a
I.
This course comprises:
(a)	Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Nicholson’s Text-book of Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker’s Elementary Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined
in Pratt’s Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker’s Biology.
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order
of mammalia. -The work is outlined in Kirsch’s Ele-
mentary Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for first
term; three recitation hours and three labora-
tory periods for second term.]
II.
This course comprises:	.
(a)	Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based
upon Hertwig’s Manual of Zoology.
184
BULLETIN OF THE
(b)	Laboratory work upon some Invertebrata in
order to complete and supplement the work under (c)
in Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one or
two types in each of the classes of Vertebrata, viz:
fish, frog, newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book
used is Pratt's Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with
reference to the cat as outlined in Davison's Mamma-
lian Anatomy.
(e)	An outline of comparative Embryology of ani-
mals. Text-book, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
186	BULLETIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Science.
Rev. GEORGE JOSEPH MARR, C. S. C.,
. French.
Rev. DOMINIC O’MALLEY, C. S. C.,
Latin.
REV. PATRICK J. DALTON, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. WALTER J. LAVIN, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. JOHN FARLEY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography, Typewriting.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
187
Bro. NICHOLAS, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy.
Bro. PROSPER, C. S. C.,
Commercial Arithmetic.
Bro. GEORGE, C. S. C.,
French.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E.,
Mathematics.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
MICHAEL JOHN SHEA, A. M.,
Greek and Latin.
G. L. TREVINO, E. E.,
Spanish.
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S.,
Drawing and Science.
JOHN J. SHEA, Ph. B.,
History and Commercial Law.
188
BULLETIN OF THE
JOSEPH ALOYSIUS DWAN, E. E„
Mathematics and Physics.
DANIEL CORNELIUS DILLON, A. B.,
.	Greek and Latin.
WILLIAM. E. FARRELL, A. B.,
English and Civics.
GEORGE N. SPIESS, A. B.,
English and Elocution.
JAMES F. HINES,
Mathematics.
DANIEL J. DUGGAN, A. M.,
French.
THOMAS ALOYSIUS HEALY,
English, Geography, History.
JOHN F. O’HARA,
Spanish.
ALBERT MERTES,
Chemistry.
JOSEPH CAPARO, C. E.,
Physics.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
189
PREPARATORY SCHOOL.
The University maintains a fully equipped Prepara-
tory School under the same general government as the
Colleges, but having its own special corps of instruc-
tors. The schedules of studies are arranged to meet
the need of thorough preparation for collegiate work,
and embrace courses which, while giving as wide an
education as can be obtained in the very best High
Schools, prepare students directly for the group of
studies they may elect when entering the Freshman
year. Four different programs of instruction are of-
fered to students, each containing such special courses
as directly meet the needs of the sixteen college groups,
while all embrace common subjects which are indes-
pensibly necessary in acquiring a fairly liberal educa-
tion. The period of instruction covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Pre-
paratory School are most complete. The laboratories
are extensive and fully supplied with the latest im-
proved appliances. The classes pursuing any subject
are divided into sections, each containing a limited
number of students. The sections are purposely limit-
ed in order that each student may receive close atten-
tion from the instructor in every recitation and labora-
tory period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening
of the School in September and embrace the subjects
completed in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pages 34, 35 and 36. The following fees are
special to the Preparatory School:
LABORATORY FEES
Science C.—Elementary Botany ..............$	2.50
Science D.—Elementary Zoology ........... 2.50
Science E.—Elementary Chemistry ......... 5.00
Science F.—Elementary Physics ............ 5.00
190
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE DEPARTMENT
OF CLASSICS IN THE COLLEGE OF ARTS
AND LETTERS
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week 					.	COURSE	( SUBJECTS Second Term 1	Hours a Week	COURSE
-Latin	5	A	Latin	'	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	4	A	History	4	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	| Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR					
-Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
Greek	5	A	Greek	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	4	B	History	4	B
Mathematics	5	0	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	0	Latin	5	C
Greek	5	B	English	5	B
English	• 5	C	Greek	5	C
History	4	c	History	4	c
Mathematics	5	E	Science	5	c
Civil Gov’m't	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
English German or	5	D	English German or	5	D
French	5	A	French	5	A
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
191
Studies Preparatory for the Department of Letters
and the Department of History and Economics
in the College of Arts and Letters.
FIRST TERM.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS Second. Term	Hours a Week	COURSE
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	4	A	History	4	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
French or			French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	4	B	History	4	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
French or			French or		
German	5	B	German	5	B
English	4	C	, English	5	C
History	5	c	History	4	c
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	c
Civil Gov’m’t	2	A	; Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
French or			French or		
German	4	C	German	4	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
German or			German or		
French*	5	A	French*	5	A
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
* Students who begin French A in the second year must be-
gin German A in the fourth year.
192
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGE
OF SCIENCE
FIRST TERM.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS Second. Term	Hours a Week	COURSE
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics i	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Latin	!	5	A	Latin	5	A
Civil Gov’m't	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
Science	5	A 4	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	0	Mathematics	5	D
History	4	A	History	4	A
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	c	English	5	c
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	II
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	4	B	History	4	B
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
History	4	G	History	4	G
Drawing	3	A	Drawing	3	B
&&
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	193
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGES OF
. ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	COURSE	SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week 		COURSE
English	5	A	English	5	.A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	4	A	History	4	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
■^German	5	A	German	5	A
Civil Gov'm’t	2	A	Civil Gov’m’t	2	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	D
History	4	B	History	4	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German	5	B	German	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
History'	4	C	History	4	C
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
German	4	C	German	4	G
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	G	Mathematics	5	H
Drawing	3	A	Drawing	3	B
Science	5	P	Science	5	F
* French or Spanish may be substituted for German.
For Architecture, Mechanical Drawing I., II. are required (see
page 131).
194
BULLETIN OF THE
PREPARATORY COURSES
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended to
give the student some knowledge of the general prin-
ciples of government and of the American Constitu-
tion. The subject begins by defining government; then
is considered the object and necessity of government;
origin of civil society; the principle of suffrage; differ-
ent forms of government defined and compared; theo-
ries of representation. These topics necessarily are
treated briefly, as the principal part of the course con-
sists of a study of the Colonial government, the Arti-
cles of Confederation and their defects, the formation
bf the Constitution and its adoption. The study fur-
ther comprises a critical analysis of each article and
section of the American constitution, thus enabling the
student to acquire a clear conception of the division of
powers of the National Government and the duties and
responsibilities of each department. Text-book, Gov-
ernment by State and Nation, by James and Sanford.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
DRAWING
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing
and consists of the training necessary for the hand and
the eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
195
B.
Course in Lettering, in pencil and in pen and ink,
preparatory to Drawing I. in the Engineering Pro-
grams. A sufficient number of plates must be made
by each student to prove his fitness for Drawing I.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH
A.
(a)	Review of Grammar. Elemetary Composi-
tion. Daily exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The elements of versification. Scansion, one
hour a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: Robinson Crusoe, *Evan-
geline, Treasure Island, Snow-Bound, *The Sketch
Book, *The Vision of Sir Launfal, Poe's Tales, Poe's
Poems, * Julius Caesar, *The Merchant of Venice.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to he studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
(a)	Hill's Principles of Rhetoric, Part I., with
daily exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The simpler verse forms. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: Ivanhoe, *The Lady of the
Lake, *The Vicar of Wakefield, *The Ancient Mariner,
The Courtship of Miles Standish, *Silas Marner, *The
Princess, *Macbeth, *As You Like it.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
196	BULLETIN OF THE
c.
(c) Hill's Principles of Rhetoric, Part II,, with
daily exercises in class. Weekly theme first term; fort-
nightly essay second term. .
(b)	Verse forms continued. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(c)	Required reading: *Sir Roger de Coverly,
^Macaulay's Essay on Addison, *The Golden Treasury
of English Lyrics, ^Macaulay's Essay on Milton, ^Mil-
ton's Minor Poems, *A Midsummer Night’s Dream,
^Burke's Speech on the Conciliation of America,
^Webster's Bunker Hill Oration, ^Lincoln's Gettysburg
Oration, *King Lear.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
(a)	English and American Literature.
(b)	Review of Composition and Rhetoric, with
daily exercises in class. Fortnightly essay first term;
monthly essay second term.
(c)	Verse forms concluded. Weekly exercises.
Memory work.
(d)	Required reading: The House of the Seven
Gables, *The Idylls of the King, Selections from Para-
dise Lost, Cary's Dante, * Gate's Selections from New-
man, *The Dream of Gerontius, Pope's Homer, *The
Tempest, Aubrey de Vere's Poems, and * Hamlet.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the
others read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	197
FRENCH
Grammar with written and oral-exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pro-
nouns, the conjugation of regular and the common ir-
regular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses, the
essentials of French syntax, and the common idiomatic
phrases. Frazer and Squair’s Grammar. Reading
three of the following: La Tache du Petit Pierre, Mai-
ret; Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malhezi-
reuse, Guerber; Sans Famille, Malot; Supers’ Readings
from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of idi-
oms, memorizing. Frazer and Squair’s Grammar. Dic-
tations and conversations are added on practical top-
ics, and careful translation made of five of the follow-
ing works: La Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
• Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’ Argent, Dumas; Stan-
dard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week fortwo terms.]
C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of French literature. Besides a reading and crit-
icism of the best writers, such as: Causeri.es du Lundi,
198	BULLETIN OF THE
Ste. Beuve; On Rend V Argent, Coppee; Hemani,
Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine;
DAvare, Moliere; Mlle, de la Siegliere, Sandeau; Les
Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedi-
tion de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de
Hongrie, Montalembert; Histoire de la Litterature
Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
GREEK
Grammar. Etymology, Goodell.
Lessons for Beginners, Morris and Goodell.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part I, Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Etymology reviewed and Syntax begun.
Goodell.
Xenophon. Anabasis, Four Books, Smith.
Composition. Based on the Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part II., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
c.
Grammar. Completed.
Xenophon. Selections from Memorabilia.
Prose Composition.
Homer. Iliad, Six Books, Seymour.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part III., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
199
GERMAN
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems
English of simple prose; translation of English exer-
- cises into German. Reading of short stories and se-
lections from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.	'
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history.
Hermann and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein,
Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
c.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems
and prose writings. Translation of selections from
" history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; Best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
A.	.
Ancient History. Myers" Ancient History. The
Eastern Nations. The History of Greece and of the
Empire of Alexander.. The Story of Rome. The Es-
tablishment of the Empire, and the rise of Christian-
ity. The Roman-German, or Transition Age.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
200	BULLETIN OF THE
B.
Medieval History. Myers' Medieval History.
The Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mohammedan-
ism and the Saracean Caliphs. The Holy Roman Em-
pire. The Age of Revival. The Empire and the Pap-
acy. The Great Schism and the rise of the Nations of
Modern Europe.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
c.
Modern History. Myers' Modern Age. The
Renaissance. The Age of Discovery. The Protes-
tant Reformation. The Power of Spain. The Strifes
of France with Spain and Germany. The Age of Louis
XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish and Aus-
trian Successions. The Empire of England. The
American Revolution. The French Revolution and the
Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and the Spirit of
Nationality. The formation of Germany and Italy.
[Four hours a week for one year.]
LATIN
Grammar. Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises. Rudiments of Latin, Reynolds.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar. Books I.—IV.
Prose Composition. Based on Caesar.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	201
c.
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett.
Nepos. Selected Lives,
Sallust. Catiline.
Cicero. Orations I.—III., against Catiline.
Prose Composition. Based on authors read.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar. Complete review.
Cicero. Three orations including Pro Lege Manilia.
Ovid. Metamorphoses.
Vergil. Aeneid, six books. The explanations cover
peculiarity of syntax, figures, mythology.
Prosody. Study of hexameter verse.
Prose Composition. Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
MATHEMATICS
Algebra. This course for beginners in Algebra in-
cludes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
dwelt upon in particular are factoring, highest com-
mon factor and least common multiple, which are af-
terwards applied in their relation to Fractions and the
reduction of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible,
concrete examples of their applications to kindred
scientific subjects are applied by the teacher. Text-
book, Wentworth’s School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
*	B.
Algebra. In this course the study of equations is
. begun and continued through equations of the first
202
BULLETIN OF THE
degree. Fractional equations, systems of simultane-
ous equations, involution, radicals and exponents com-
plete the course, which is supplemented whenever pos-
sible with problems of practical application. Text-
book, Wentworth’s School Algebra..
[Five hours a week for one term.]
c.
Algebra. This course begins with quadratic equa-
tions, pure and affected, followed by systems of simul-
taneous quadratic equations and those forms of radical
equations of higher degree which may be solved by
quadratic methods. Ratio and proportion, indetermi-
nate equations, surds, imaginaries, inequalities, the
progressions and the binomial theorem finish the work
in this course. As in the preceding courses, special
stress is placed upon the application of the theory to
such examples as will show its application to elemen-
tary scientific subjects. Text-book, Wentworth’s Col-
lege Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Geometry. This subject is completed as far as the
end of plane geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original proposi-
tions. The habit of independent thinking is cultivated
to some extent by the solution of special problems of
concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation of the
process studied to practical examples. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Geometry. The study of solid geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
203
of the preceding term. Planes, solid angles, polyhed-
rons, the cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied in -
detail and the solution of original exercises and prop-
ositions of application is made a feature of the course.
. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Algebra and Geometry. This course, which con-
tinues through one scholastic year, is designed especi-
ally for those students who wish to take up the study
of Engineering. As this necessitates a thorough ground
work in mathematics, the first half of the year is given
to a review of algebra and geometry, three hours and
two hours a week respectively. The most important
theorems and subjects are again studied and a more
comprehensive view of the subject is attained in the
generalizing of many theorems and extending the
range of others. Text-book, Benitz.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
G.
Algebra and Geometry. The work of this term
is entirely given up to. an elementary exposition of the
application of mathematics to scientific problems and
to analysis. In lectures and class work actual prob-
lems representing existing and practical conditions are
taken up, and the derivation of approximate formulae
and an elementary study of curves derived from exper-
iment are included. Text-book, Benitz.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Trigonometry. A half year is given to this subject
which includes both plane and spherical trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
204
BULLETIN OF THE
elementary text-books. Special attention is given to
goniometry on account of its application to calculus,
and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly sup-
plied. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
SCIENCE
Physical Geography. An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the
world about him. The various types of plant and ani-
mal life together with topographical and climatic con-
ditions will be considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Physiology. Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and Hygiene of the
bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene of
muscles. The digestive, circulatory and excretory sys-
tems demonstrated by models and charts. The anat-
omy and structure of the nervous system and simple
experiments on the same. Text-book, Martin’s Human
Body.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Botany. This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower
and seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant
life and their classification is also given. Text-book,
Bastin’s Elements of Botany.
’ [Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	205
D.
ZOOLOGY. This course includes an introduction to
the subject with studies of representative forms and
their classification in the different groups of the ani-
mal kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
(a)	Chemistry.—An introductory course of ex-
perimental lectures on familiar subjects such as water,
the air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading
up to discussions of the more important elements and
their properties, and the fundamental laws and phe-
nomena of chemistry.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
(b)	Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory
course to accompany Course (a), A series of exercises
to be performed by each student, and having as their
main object the cultivation of the student’s powers of
observation and faculty of inductive reasoning. These
exercises comprise a study of the principal metallic
elements, including their preparation, properties and
more familiar compounds. The directions for each ex-
periment are made as brief as possible; the observation
of facts and the drawing of correct conclusions there-
from being left, so far as the nature of the experiment
will permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
Physics. Instruction in elementary physics is given
by lectures and recitations, in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and mag-
206
BULLETIN OF THE
netism are presented. The course is intended to meet
the needs of those who desire a general knowledge of
the subject, as well as to lay the foundation for ad-
vanced work. Particular attention is paid to the cor-
rect statement of principles so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or re-
learn.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
Laboratory Work of this course consists of a series
of 70 experiments which verify and apply practically
the fundamental principles of physics. The student
also receives instruction in the use and careful hand-
ling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct de-
duction of results. Neat and concise reports of all ex-
periments are kept by each student and form the basis
for the grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined above
are equivalent to those of a High School. There is
also a Junior Preparatory Department in which are
taught all the branches of a Grammar School—the
students having every opportunity for preparing them-
selves as rapidly as possible for High School work.

COMMERCIAL SCHOOL

«
208
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COMMERCIAL SCHOOL
When the character and needs of the country are
considered, courses in business will appear the most
practical, and among the most important that an edu-
cational institution can offer.
Students, therefore, who have not the time or the
means to take a complete college course in the classics
or the sciences, will do well to enroll themselves in the
Commercial School. No plan of study is more injudi-
cious than a haphazard selection of such studies as an
inexperienced young man may fancy. The training
resulting from a fixed program of studies is of the ut-
most benefit to the student.
The commercial studies at Notre Dame have always
received the most careful attention from the officers
and from the Commercial Faculty. Notre Dame claims
to give the students of this School a more complete
business training than can be obtained in any purely
commercial school. The authorities require that stu-
dents taking this program—which may be completed
in one year—should be at least 16 years of age and
should have completed two years of a regular High
School course or its equivalent. Special arrangements,
however, will be made for young men who have had
no High School training, but who may have had prac-
tical business or office experience. Should a student
desire to pursue any other studies in which he may be
interested and for which he has time, he will have lib-
erty to do so. A diploma is issued to students com-
pleting all the courses of the program satisfactorily.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
209
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
FIRST TERM.
I.
Arithmetic. Percentage; ratio and proportion; as
far as involution and evolution. Normal Union Arith-
metic, Brooks. Recitations daily.
II.
Bookkeeping. Preparatory instruction and defini-
tions; initiatory sets by Double Entry; retailing by
Double Entry; special practice in writing business pa-
per and business forms. New Complete Bookkeeping,
Williams and 'Rogers. Recitations daily.
III.
English. Study of the theory of English composi-
tion; frequent exercises in theme writing. The prin-
ciples of rhetoric. Recitations daily.
IV.
*Phonography. Recitations daily.
V.
Typewriting. Three hours a week.
VI.	>
Pennmanship.
* Phonography is free to commercial students in the final year of
their program. For typewriting fees see page 36.
210
BULLETIN OF THE
SECOND TERM.
I.
Bookkeeping. Single Entry; changing Single to
Double Entry; retailing; wholesaling; shipping and
commission; jobbing; manufacturing; installment and
state agencies; joint stock companies; banking; rail-
roading. New Complete Bookkeeping, Williams and
Rogers. Four hours a week.
II.
Arithmetic. Percentage, ratio and proportion (re-
viewed) ; involution and evolution; arithmetical and
geometrical series: higher percentage; mensuration;
arithmetical analysis. Higher Arithmetic, Brooks.
Recitations four hours a week.
III.
Business Practice and Office Work. Four hours
a week.
IV.
Business Correspondence. Two hours a week.
V.
Commercial Law. General principles of contracts;
agency; partnership; corporations; guaranty; sale of
goods; negotiable paper. Huff cut. Two hours a week.
VI.	.
Phonography. Speed class. Recitations daily.
VII.
Typewriting. Speed class. Daily.
VIII.
Penmanship.	,

SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
212
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
For the care and training of boys under the age of
thirteen years, there has been established a primary
school to which the most scrupulous attention has, al-
. ways been paid by the authorities of the University—it
is known as St. Edward’s Hall.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Latin, French and German and Algebra. Vocal Music
and Drawing involve no extra charge. The pupils of
this department are taught by Sisters of JEioly Cross.
DISCIPLINE
The following is the order of the day: Rising at
6:30 a. m., tqilet, etc.; seven, breakfast, after which
there is a short time given to exercise on the campus;
eight, study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes and
study; a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, fol-
lowed by recreation; half-past one, classes and study;
three, recreation and luncheon; half-past four, classes
and study; a quarter-past six, toilet; half-past six, sup-
per and recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From
this it may be seen that while the Minims devote al-
most seven hours a day to study, they are never more
than two hours in succession in the class-room. The
recreation and exercise in the fresh air after each per-
iod of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to
return to their classes refreshed and ready for work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the
hours of recreation as well as in the class-room and
the study-hall. The presence, however, of the prefect
is far from being a restraint on the amusement of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
213
boys; for while it is the duty of the prefects to insist
that their young charges shall always keep within the
limits of the strictest propriety, they at the same time
take part in all sports, organize games, and do every-
thing in their power to foster the love for exercise.
The playground is a broad level, eight-acre field, well
supplied with turning poles, swings, ladders, rings,
parallel bars, and all other necessary gymnastic appa-
ratus. That the boys make good use of them can be
seen from their healthy, happy appearance, which in-
variably attracts the notice of visitors. Connected with
the playground is a brick play-hall, one-hundred and
sixty feet long and heated by steam. In this hall the
boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend
the clothing: see to all the needs and to the comfort
and convenience of the Minims. Baths are taken every
few days. Underclothing is changed regularly. Great
care is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that
the clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES
There are two societies in the Minim Department,
that of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which
has for its object to supply servers for the Church ser-
vices, and the Sorin Association, which has been estab-
lished with a view to give the pupils a start, as early
as possible, in elocution. The society is presided over
by one of the professors, who finds it a pleasant duty
to draw out the talent of these interesting young ora-
tors. Meetings are held once a week, after school
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well
as of profit. The members prepare original composi-
tions, deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc.
214
BULLETIN OF THE
Only the best behaved and more advanced in studies
are admitted to membership. To encourage this young
literary society, a gold medal for elocution is annually
awarded at Commencement to the most deserving mem-
ber.
GENERAL REMARKS
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to students more
advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to pun-
ishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern by kind-
ness and gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’
sense of honor. The names of all whose conduct and
application to studies are satisfactory appear on the
Roll of Honor and on the Roll of Class Honors. To
find his name mentioned in these rolls, is found to be
as great a reward for the deserving pupil, as its non-
appearance is a punishment for the undeserving.
Then, too, there are gold medals awarded at the end
of two full years to those whose deportment has been
unexceptionable during that period. As this fact is
made known to the Minim immediately after his en-
trance, he generally endeavors to shape his conduct
with a view to receiving an Honor. The greatest care
is taken to form their young hearts to habits of virtue,
and to inculcate the practice of refined manners. Ev-
ery effort is made to foster respect and affection for
parents, to whom they are expected to write at least
once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Min-
ims is their complete separation from the older stu-
dents. A commodious building, known as St. Edward’s
Hall, affording ample accommodations for over one
hundred pupils, is devoted to their use. It is four
stories in height, one-hundred and fifty feet long, and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	215
forty-live feet wide, heated by steam, supplied through-
out with the Edison incandescent electric light, and
provided with hot and cold water. The ceiling in the
study-hall, class-rooms and sleeping apartments is fif-
teen feet high. The windows are large and numerous,
affording abundant light and ventilation. The study-
hall commands a charming view from each of its elev-
en large windows. It is tastefully decorated with
statuary, pictures,, plants, etc. Besides the pleasure
the Minims derive from studying in this bright, cheer-
ful hall, their tastes are cultured by coming into con-
tact with objects so refining. Fronting the building is
a handsome park, which, with its fountains, rare trees
and flowers, adds not a little to the beauty of St. Ed-
ward’s Hall, as well as to the happiness of its pupils.
These remarks, wThich have been made to satisfy
parents and others who frequently write for more de-
tailed information, will show that, while the Minims
have every advantage to aid them in acquiring a foun-
dation for future study, they have a home, where they
enjoy the same ease and freedom that they would en-.
joy under the care of their mothers. For further in-
formation regarding the School for Minims apply for
a special catalogue, expenses
(For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.)
Matriculation Fee (first year only)..............$ 10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bed-
ding, etc., per session of nearly ten months.... 250.00
Payable in advance as follows:
First Payment,—On Entrance in September.
Matriculation Fee ...............................$ 10.00
Board and Tuition.............................. 150.00
Deposit on Book and	Stationery	Account........... 5.00
Gymnasium ....................................... 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course	Ticket................ 1.00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second Payment,—On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition...................$100.00
216	BULLETIN OF THE
The charge for lessons on piano, violin, guitar or
mandolin, and the use of the instrument, is fixed at
$50.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been ren-
dered.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits
of underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket hand-
kerchiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats
or caps, two pairs of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three
suits of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush,
soap, and a hand mirror. This direction concerning
clothing is a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the
, above supplies can be procured through the Students’
Office at the University.
LIST OF STUDENTS
»S“
i
218
BULLETIN OF THE
LIST OF STUDENTS '
Matriculated During the Scholastic Year from
September, 1908 to June, 1909.
Amondarain, Ignacio
South America
Anselm, B..................................Canada
Arias, Manuel Fernando.......................Cuba
Alby, Francis .............................Indiana
Ayres, Carl Stanford.......................Indiana
Amadeus, B................................Illinois
Attley, George Emmett.....................Illinois
Arrington, Norman Joy.....................Illinois
Aylward, Francis Richard..................Illinois
Armstrong, Henry Joseph...................Illinois
Arnold, William Simpson..............Massachusetts
Aldrete, George ...............................Mexico
Alarcon, Julius Y..............................Mexico
Aldrete, Antonio ..............................Mexico
Aguirre, Andreas Baca..........................Mexico
Arteaga, Eduardo...............................Mexico
Ahern, John Henry...................South Dakota
Ahern, Frank William................South Dakota
Arvey, Edmund James
Wisconsin
Adriansen, Joseph Willebrod...............Wisconsin
Babbitt, Bertrand Henry....................Arizona
Baradat, Enrique Andrew.......................Cuba
Bowles, Joseph Wesley.....................Colorado
Bowen, Robert Mortimer....................Colorado
Bowles, Raymond Henry.....................Colorado
Bartoszeck, Stanley .........................
Burke, Thomas Joseph.........................
Broad, Mark Charles..........................
Burke, William Joseph........................
Beane, George Alfred.........................
Barasaloux, Paul Keeley......................
Binz, Frank .................................
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
Illinois
Batchelder, Geo. O’Neal.........................Illinois
Bowles, John Hense..............................Illinois
Bentley, Walter.................................Illinois
■Bergfeld, Elliot William.......................Illinois
Bryson, George Devereux.........................Illinois
Bryson, Ralph Oxley.............................Illinois
w	-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	219
Barclay, Francis Arthur....................Illinois
Barland, Leo ..............................Illinois
Bergner, John Velde........................Illinois
Becker, John Harold........................Illinois
Bell, John William.........................Illinois
Both wick, Thomas C........................Illinois
Bucher, Edmund Victor.......................Indiana
Butler, John Patrick........................Indiana
Buckley, Leo ...............................Indiana
Brown, William Allen........................Indiana
Bostwick, Jay Harper........................Indiana
Buczkowski, John Stanislaus.................Indiana
Barbazette, Leon Francis....................Indiana
Boor, Anthony Leonard..........................Iowa
Bamberg, Julius Peter........................  Iowa
Bear, Charles Andrew.......................... Iowa
Burke, William Ignatius...............Massachusetts
Barrenquy, Pedro . ..........................Mexico
Bracho, Joseph ..............................Mexico
Burke, John Clarence......................Minnesota
Borstetter, Martin John....................Michigan
Ben Oliel, William Abraham.................Michigan
Bensburg, William Joseph...................Missouri
Bogy, Bernard Pratt........................Missouri
Bollin, Walter Scott.......................Missouri
Benoist, Charles Louis.....................Missouri
Benoist, Lami Francis......................Missouri
Bruce, Edward M. W.........................Missouri
Balensiefer, Harold Francis.................Montana
Baldwin, John Frank..............................New	Mexico
Byrne, Paul Ryan...........................New	York
Bonham, Edward Douglas.....................New	York
Briggs, John ..............................New	York
Brady, William Henry.......................New	York
Birder, Cecil Edward...........................North	Dakota
Birder, Jacob Vivian...........................North	Dakota
Brown, Harry DeForest..........................Ohio
Bennett, Joseph Alphonsus......................Ohio
Brengartner, Elmer Joseph......................Ohio
Burdick, Henry Anthony.........................Ohio
Burns, Francis ..............................  Ohio
Boyle, William '...............................Ohio
Beninghaus, William Henry......................Ohio
Bennett, Harry Joseph.”........................Ohio
Boulton, John Allen............................OhiQ
Berry, Spire Bernard.......................Oklahoma
Brislin, John Jerome..................Pennsylvania
Bannon, John Mackin...................Pennsylvania
Biter, Francis Edward.................Pennsylvania
Blanco, Enrique Thomas...................Porto	Rico
Bowen, John William...................Rhode Island
220
BULLETIN OF THE
Burns, Charles Hugh..............................Texas
Bordages, James Denie............................Texas
Broussard, Clyde Eloi............................Texas
Barry, Patrick Arthur..........................Vermont
Bisett, James Joseph......................West	Virginia
Brooks, Christopher Francis..................Wisconsin
Clay, Archibald ..............................Colorado
Coryell, Perry Commodore......................Colorado
Cruz, Charles Manuel..............................Cuba
Cleary, Thomas ...............................Illinois
Cunningham, George Thompson...................Illinois
Conway, Richard Francis.......................Illinois
, Cagney, Harry Louis...........................Illinois
Cagney, John Albert...........................Illinois
Cagney, LeRoy ................................Illinois
Cagney, Walter ...............................Illinois
Comerford, George Louis.......................Illinois
Comerford, John Martin........................Illinois
Comerford, Dean William.......................Illinois
Carey, Eugene.................................Illinois
Cyzio, Stanislaus Casimir.....................Illinois
Cantwell, Robert Emmett.......................Illinois
Cantwell, Francis Xavier......................Illinois
Call, Havens Howe.............................Illinois
Clarke, Thomas Alexander......................Illinois
Cotter, William Edward........................Illinois
Cantwell, Thomas Barry........................Illinois
Cahill, James Francis.........................Illinois
Clarke, George Walker.........................Illinois
Collins, Thomas Daniel........................Illinois
Coppinger, Lucian Biggins.....................Illinois
Clippinger, Arthur Selbey.....................Illinois
Corboy, Raymond Michael.......................Illinois
Corboy, Leo Joseph............................Illinois
Cahill, James Lee.............................Illinois
Cauley, Stephen Vincent.......................Illinois
Cleary, Leo John..............................Illinois
Cleary, Edward Patrick........................Illinois
Condon, Leo James.............................Illinois
Clinnin, Walter Andrew........................Illinois
Clement, B....................................Illinois
Carr, Harry William...........................Illinois
Chong, Moy Folk...............................Illinois
Corbett, John Kiley............................Indiana
Csoka, Joseph .................................Indiana
Cripe, Clarence Cyrus..........................Indiana
Crepeau, Elton Benjamin........................Indiana
Carver, William James..........................Indiana
Coffeen, Walter H..............................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
221
Carroll, Frederick William..................Indiana
Czyzewski, Stephen .........................Indiana
Costello, Edward Walter.....................Indiana
Clark, Owen ................................Indiana
Cassidy, Charles Michael....................Indiana
Coffey, Raymond Thomas.........................Iowa
Cummings, Charles Warrell..................Kentucky
Cody, William Francis......................Kentucky
Collins, Joseph ......................Massachusetts
Connelly, Eugene Edward...............Massachusetts
Curtis, Harry A.......................Massachusetts
Cortazar, Enrique............................Mexico
Cortazar, Julio..............................Mexico
Couttolenc, Luis ............................Mexico
Cobo, Alfredo ...............................Mexico
Casteneda, Ramon ..........................  Mexico
Castelazo, Carlos	Castillo...................Mexico
Currie, Clarence	Joseph...................Michigan
Crowell, Joseph	Addison..................Michigan
Cole, Chauncey	.........................Michigan
Culligan, Terrence Michael.................Michigan
Callahan, James ...........................Michigan
Culligan, James Edward.....................Michigan
Cox, Louis Charles........................Minnesota
Clark, Malachy Daniel.....................Minnesota
Coad*, Marcus Matthew......................Nebraska
Carville, Edward Peter.......................Nevada
Cooke, Arthur John........................New York
Curran, Cyril Joseph......................New York
Courcier, John Lawrence........................Ohio
Carroll, Homer Peter...........................Ohio
Cahill, Harry Sylvester........................Ohio
Cusick, Dwight Paul............................Ohio
Ciement, Arthur Meade..........................Ohio
Clinton, Manus Paul....................Pennsylvania
Clarke, James Francis..................Pennsylvania
Connell, James Joseph...................Rhode	Island
Concha, M. Francisco..................South	America
Caparo" J. Angel......................South	America
Cardenas, Jose Antonio................South	America
Caceres, Federico ....................South	America
Cordovez, Gustavo ....................South	America
Cole, Henry Meier.........................Tennessee
Cartwright, Marcus .......................Tennessee
Corrigan, Bartholomew ........................Texas
Cassin, Edward Willett........................Texas
Cray, William Charles.......................Vermont
Carey, William Arthur.....................Wisconsin
Collentine, Richard Joseph................Wisconsin
Cremer, Cornelius Mathias.................Wisconsin
Cremer, John Leo..........................Wisconsin
222
BULLETIN OF THE
Cremer, Sylvester Edward....................Wisconsin
Cole, Jules Omer..............................Indiana
DeLunden, Charles Leon........................Belgium
De La Torre, Luis................................Cuba
Downing, William Poyntelle...................Illinois
Dunn, Raymond Joseph.........................Illinois
Duffy, Daniel Franklin.......................Illinois
Dee, Samuel Allerton.........................Illinois
Denvir, Edward Warren........................Illinois
Denvir, John Russell.........................Illinois
Dean, John Richmond..........................Illinois
Dunn, William Edward.........................Illinois
Dunn, Frank James............................Illinois
Duffy, Harry Aloysius........................Illinois
Dar st, William James........................Illinois
Dunbar, Tom Kennedy..........................Illinois
Duncan, Walter James.........................Illinois
Doonan, Edward Joseph........................Illinois
Devine, John Francis.........................Illinois
Dolan, Patrick Henry.........................Illinois
Drechney, John Harry.........................Illinois
Donovan, Paul Joseph.........................Illinois
Daniels, Bert Elmer..........................Illinois
Delana, Edward Keenan........................Illinois
Dupee, Charles Analdo........................Illinois
Daly, Hugh James.............................Illinois
Del Rio, Pedro................................Indiana
Dixon, Maurice Edwin..........................Indiana
Dubail, Donald Edward.........................Indiana
Deery, James Edward...........................Indiana
Dinnen, George Aloysius.......................Indiana
Dinnen, John Richard..........................Indiana
Donahue, William Matthew......................Indiana
Donahue, Ferol John...........................Indiana
Donahue, Joseph Nicholas......................Indiana
Donahue, Joseph Francis.......................Indiana
Ditton, James Hawkins.........................Indiana
Daily, John Frederick..........................Kansas
Dant, John Proctor...........................Kentucky
Donovan, Cornelius James................Massachusetts
Dominguez, Mario Seferino......................Mexico
Del Hoyo, Felipe Erasmo........................Mexico
DeLandero, Pedro Antonio.......................Mexico
Dederich, Robert John........................Michigan
Davis, Robert Egnew..........................Michigan
Daoust, Edward Michael.......................Michigan
Daniels, Fred S..............................Missouri
Dolan, William Thomas........................Missouri
Degen, Henry Peter.......................New Jersey
Degen, Gerald Theodore...................New Jersey
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
223
Duarte, Adolfo Manuel................South. America
Dwyer, Peter Gregory......................New York
Devine, .James Joseph.....................New York
Deckman, Charles George........................Ohio
Doppes, Bernard John...........................Ohio
Devitt, James Ryan.............................Ohio
Doorley, Frank Jerome..........................Ohio
Dixon, Carmo Del...............................Ohio
Dimmick, Ralph Chester.......................Oregon
Dolan, Samuel Michael........................Oregon
Dillon, Daniel Cornelius...............Pennsylvania
Devine, John Joseph....................Pennsylvania
DeLone, Harry Martin...................Pennsylvania
DeLone, Eugene Martin..................Pennsylvania
Devers, John Aloysius..................Pennsylvania
Dixon, Joseph Thomas...................Pennsylvania
Duffy, William Ambrose.................Pennsylvania
Duque, Charles Alphonsus.............South America
Diener, John Vern.........................Wisconsin
Duffy, John Francis.......................Wisconsin
Dionne, Louis Albert....................  Wisconsin
Dana, Fred Charles........................Wisconsin
Eckert, John Joseph.........................Germany
Espinal, Antonia Marino........................Cuba
Ernest, B..................................Illinois
Ecklund, Percy August......................Illinois
Eligius, B.................................Illinois
Edwards, Howard ............................Indiana
Eichelsdorfer, Carl William.................Indiana
Ephrem, B...................................Indiana
Edler, Johann Henry............................Iowa
Engler, Nicholas ..............................Ohio
Escher, Edward Paul....................Pennsylvania
Ely, J. Wilfred........................Pennsylvania
Elliott, Cecil Raymond....................Tennessee
Friederich, Philip Peter...................Colorado
Fitzgerald, Harold Francis.................Illinois
Fritch, Louis Michael......................Illinois
Foley, William Charles.....................Illinois
Flaherty, James Joseph.....................Illinois
Fife, Richard Albert.......................Illinois
Figel, Edward L............................Illinois
Fletcher, Forest ..........................Illinois
Fish, Aubrey Aaron.........................Illinois
Fitzpatrick, William Boland.................Indiana
Falvey, Jay Marcus..........................Indiana
Finbar, B...................................Indiana
224
BULLETIN OF THE
Funk, Elmo Ambrose...................v Indiana
Farneman, John D. J..................?.....Indiana
Fralick, James Stanislaus..................Indiana
Freyermuth, John Warren....................Indiana
Fanelli, Salvatore Paul...................Kentucky
Fant, Paul Douglas........................Maryland
Freeze, Chester Douglas..............Massachusetts
Flynn, Charles Joseph................Massachusetts
Fish, William Arthur.................Massachusetts
Fish, James Leo......................Massachusetts
Falomir, Jose J.............................Mexico
Fink, Carl Henry..........................Michigan
Foley, Edward Raymond.....................Michigan
Fitzpatrick, William Patrick..............Michigan
Foley, James Timothy...................New Jersey
Finnigan, George Joseph..................New York
Finnegan, Wales Edward...................New York
Ford, Thomas Hugh.............................Ohio
Fletcher, Emmett Brooks.......................Ohio
Fishel, John William..........................Ohio
Fanning, Michael D’Arcy.......................Ohio
Fazekas, Stephen Aloysius.....................Ohio
Finneran, Francis Xavier......................Ohio
Fasenmeyer, Edward John...............Pennsylvania
Fenesy, James Clair...................Pennsylvania
Ferrel, Taylor.......................West Virginia
Ferrell, Louis Tiffany...............West Virginia
Ferrell, Maurice Bennett.............West Virginia
Fox, John McDill.........................Wisconsin
Fordyce, John M. P.......................Wisconsin
Furniss, Thomas James....................Wisconsin
Fruechtl, John Baptiste..................Wisconsin
Forrestal, Peter Paul....................Wisconsin
Foley, John Lawrence.................South Dakota
Frawley, Henry James.................South Dakota
Frawley, William Gardner.............South Dakota
Foley, Andrew Edward.................South Dakota
Gohier, Edouard ............................Canada
Gohier, Horace .............................Canada
Gavagan, Frank James......................Colorado
Gallart, John Baptiste........................Cuba
Gamboa, Octavio F.............................Cuba
Gamboa, Nicholas A............................Cuba
Griesbach, Otto George....................Illinois
Graham, Stewart Maxwell...................Illinois
Garvey, Henry Valentine...................Illinois
Grabarski, Joseph Stanislaus..............Illinois
Gregory, B................................Illinois
Gassensmith, Frederick Michael............Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
225
Glueckert, Henry George.....................Indiana
Green, Francis Edward.......................Indiana
Glynn, Thomas Davis.........................Indiana
Gartland, Ralph Joseph......................Indiana
Griswold, Earl William......................Indiana
Gates, John Frederick..........................Iowa
Guthrie, Michael Raidy.....................Kentucky
Glynn, Edward Jerome..................Massachusetts
Gibson, Frank Leo.....................Massachusetts
Grimm, Louis A........................Massachusetts
Gonzalez, Juan Garcia........................Mexico
Garcia, Raul Vincent.........................Mexico
Grande, Raphael Francis......................Mexico
Garcia, Rafael ..............................Mexico
Gallagher, Thomas..........................Michigan
. Gotfredson, Robert Benjamin................Michigan
Gibson, Joseph Clay........................Missouri
Goddeyne, Joseph Charles...................Michigan
Gaffney, Edwin Joseph......................Michigan
Griesedieck, William August.:..............Missouri
Garcia, Manuel Lopez.....................New	Mexico
Gros Claude, Frederic Richard..................Ohio
Gutierrez, Jose Miguel................South	America
Garvey, Eugene Augustine...............Pennsylvania
Gunster, Edward Harper.................Pennsylvania
Gerenda, John .........................Pennsylvania
Gowrie, William Arthur................Santo	Domingo
George, Alo Richard....................South	Dakota
Gira, Bernard Augustine................South	Dakota
Gira, Sylvester Anthony................South	Dakota
Gushurst, Albert Francis..............South	Dakota
Hubbell, Roman ..............................  .Arizona
Haeger, Walter William.........................Illinois
Hanley, John Connor............................Illinois
Hollearn, Frank Joseph.........................Illinois
Herr, Stephen Henry............................Illinois
Hope, James ...................................Illinois
Hickey, Charles Michael........................Illinois
Herman, Ladislaus .............................Illinois
Huferd, George Francis.........................Illinois
Hannah, Charles A...............................Illinois	”
Hunniford, Irwin Isaac.........................Illinois
Hardy, John Edward.............................Illinois
Hawes, George Harrison.........................Illinois
Hamilton Joseph Royd...........................Illinois
Hurd, Howard ..................................Illinois
Heck, Hyland Leroy.............................Illinois
Hughes, Arthur John............................Illinois
Hommowun, Clarence Franklin.....................Indiana
Holden, John S..................................Indiana
226
BULLETIN OF THE
Hosinski, Sylvester Aloysius...............Indiana
Hosinski, John Stanislaus..................Indiana
Hagerty, Timothy Paul....................  Indiana
Hartzer, Joseph William....................Indiana
Heiser, Allan Joseph.....................  Indiana
Holden, George F...........................Indiana
Hagerty, George Dominic....................Indiana
Hidalgo, Arture Torres.....................Indiana
Harrington, Timothy Vincent.................Kansas
Huerkamp, Joseph Martin...................Kentucky
Hines, Lawrence Anthony...................Kentucky
Henkel, Gustavo ............................Mexico
Hebert, Peter Edward......................Michigan
Henning, Arthur Aloysius..................Missouri
Hammond, LeGrande Anderson................Michigan
Homan, Guilford Fuller...................Minnesota
Hamerski, Leo Dominick...................Minnesota
Hebner, Harry Joseph......................Nebraska
Hubbell, John Anthony................New Mexico
Hannon, Leo Joseph........................New	York
Hughes, John Lovett.......................New	York
Hickey, Neil Joseph.......................New	York
Hug, Otto Joseph..............................Ohio
Hogan, Leo James..............................Ohio
Hilkert, Albert Andrew........................Ohio
Hagerty, James Francis......................  Ohio
Howley, Thomas Francis........................Ohio
Helmkamp, William Bernard.....................Ohio
Hamilton, Donald Munson.......................Ohio
Hinde, Joseph James...........................Ohio
Hoynes, William ..............................Ohio
Hinderschied, Harold .........................Ohio
Harrison, Samuel Morgan.......................Ohio
Heyl, William John....................Pennsylvania
Havican, Thomas Aloysius..............Pennsylvania
Hughes, Thomas Cleveland..............Pennsylvania
Haggerty, Patrick Joseph..............Pennsylvania
Heyl, Martin John.....................Pennsylvania
Hanon, Otto Sylvester...................South Dakota
Henry, John W........................Texas
Hayden, William Basil....................Wisconsin
Hebenstriet, Anton Raymond...............Wisconsin
Ignatz, Sylvester ........................Michigan
Jansen, William Fred.......................Alabama
James, Alfred Edwin........................Indiana
Johnson, Lawrence Theodore................Illinois
Jakubowski, Ceslaus Joseph................Illinois
Johanson, Constantine ....................Illinois
Judge, Thomas Aloysius...............Massachusetts
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
227
Jones, Henry Bernard.......................Michigan
Johnson, Robert ...........................Missouri
Johnston, Fabian Neele.....................Nebraska
Jalandoni, Daniel Lawrence........Philippine Islands
Jalandoni, Doroteo ...............Philippine Islands
Johnson, Kendall William..............West Virginia
Johnson, Edgar Reynolds...............West Virginia
Kane, James Joseph..................................Canada
Kelly, Charles Joseph..........................Connecticut
Keefe, Francis Thomas.................District Columbia
Keefe, Edward Joseph..................District Columbia
Kasper, Robert Adam...............................Illinois
King, Albert Vincent..............................Illinois
Kroll, John Joseph................................Illinois
Koch, Arthur .....................................Illinois
Kelly, James Louis................................Illinois
Kratz, Randall Hinkley............................Illinois
Kelly, Albert Michael.............................Illinois
Klarkowski, Stanley Henry.........................Illinois
Kane, Elmer James...........................Illinois
Kuszynski, Stanislaus ......................Illinois
Kasper, Simeon Michael......................Illinois
Kunz, Stanislaus Henry......................Illinois
Koelbel, Herbert ...........................Illinois
Koelbel, Arthur ............................Illinois
Kavanaugh, John Raymond.....................Illinois
Kaufer, John William.........................Indiana
Kucharski, Edmund Stanley....................Indiana
Kies, George Louis...........................Indiana
Kaiser, Benedict Joseph......................Indiana
Kessler, Glenn William.......................Indiana
Keltner, Ralph Jackson.......................Indiana
Knoblock, John Starr.........................Indiana
Kruszewski, Leo Hilary.......................Indiana
Kamm, Adolph Xavier..........................Indiana
Kenefick, James Paul.........................Indiana
Kelley, John Charles.........................Indiana
Keeffe, Robert Herbert..........................Iowa
Kellner, George Bosche......................Kentucky
Kelly, Luke Leo........................Massachusetts
Koop, Harry Michael........................Minnesota
Kelly, Joseph Patrick.....................New York
Kanaley, John Bernard.....................New York
Kennedy, James Francis..................North	Dakota
Kramer, James Gerard............................Ohio
Kelley, Joseph Edward...........................Ohio
Keys, Victor...................................Ohio
Keys, Albert Heuser............................Ohio
Keys, Arthur Aloysius........................Ohio
Kennedy, John Joseph.................Pennsylvania
1
228
BULLETIN OF THE
Kane, Eugene Aloysius..................Pennsylvania
Kuhle, Henry..........................South Dakota
Kelly, Darnay Anthony.....................Wisconsin
Kehoe, Francis Leo.......................Wisconsin
Kehoe, Janies Patrick.....................Wisconsin
Kosterman, Herman Anthony.................Wisconsin
Kersten, Byron Charles....................Wisconsin
Listecki, Edward Lawrence..................Illinois
Larkin, Arthur Bernard.....................Illinois
Larkin, Harold William.....................Illinois
Lister, Everett Alfred.....................Illinois
Lister, Edwin Joseph.......................Illinois
Lynch, James Lawrence....................  Illinois
Lahey, Charles William J...................Illinois
Lyerla, Floyd William....................  Illinois
Lewis, Robert ............................  Indiana
Lederer, Harry .............................Indiana
Livingston, Lester......................... Indiana
Lodyga, William.............................Indiana
Lower, Harold Joseph........................Indiana
Luzny, Francis Xavier.......................Indiana
Lahey, Thomas Aquinas.......................Indiana
Lensing, Henry Bernard......................Indiana
Lawton, Jasper Howard........'..............Indiana
Lucas, George	Maurice......................Indiana
Leslie, Woody	Higgins......................Indiana
Lednicky, Victor Engelbert...................Kansas
Lynch, Edwin	Joseph..........................Ohio
Lenertz, John	Arthur......................Oklahoma
Ledwidge, Harry Aloysius...............Pennsylvania
Lange,	Bernard Herman.................Pennsylvania
Lopez,	Jose Trinidad......................  Mexico
Lamb,	Rex Edward.........................Michigan
Lamb,	Edwin Alexander....................Michigan
Lucas, Charles.............................Missouri
Lucas, Morton James........................Missouri
Loebs, Roy Jacob.........................New	Mexico
Loebs, Earl Raymond......................New	Mexico
Lerned, Morris B...........................Nebraska
Langdon, John LeRoy........................Nebraska
Lamb, George Lawrence..................North	Dakota
Lamm, Theodore Godfrey.................South	Dakota
Lequerica, Antonio.................South America
Lequerica, Manuel..................South America
Lee, Julius Joseph.............................Utah
Luder, Earl Ernest........................Wisconsin
Mathews, Robert Lee........................  Alaska
Mantil, Gregory .............................Canada
Maltby, Hosmer Morris.......................Georgia
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
229
Margraf, John ..............................Germany
Moore, Charles Edward Vance................Illinois
Mann, Milton ..............................Illinois
Martel, George Wendell.....................Illinois
Meyer, Arthur Gerald.......................Illinois
Madigan, Joseph Denis.-....................Illinois
Madigan, George ...........................Illinois
Moore, Kenneth Denman......................Illinois
Mills, Ralph Joseph....'...................Illinois
Maxwell, Lucian Joseph.....................Illinois
Morse, Charles Hosmer......................Illinois
Morse, Robert Hosmer.......................Illinois
Mulloy, Bernard Benedict...................Illinois
Milanowski, Stanislaus Francis.............Illinois
Maguire, Thomas Oswald.....................Illinois
Mehlen, John Joseph........................Illinois
Moritz, Henry Charles...,..................Illinois
Moynihan, Emmett Aloysius..................Illinois
Meersman, Peter John.......................Illinois
Murphy, John Philip........................Illinois
Meyer, Arthur .............................Illinois
Melchior, Wallace Karrer...................Illinois
Marr, Charles Bennett......................Illinois
Madigan, George ...........................Illinois
Mills, Fred Leon...........................Illinois
Mack, Donald Edmund........................Illinois
Murdock, Charles Lillis.....................Indiana
Mose, Richard P. C..........................Indiana
Murdock, Byron Charles......................Indiana
- Moynihan, Andrew ..........................Indiana
Maurer, Ralph Augustus......................Indiana
Mathis, Michael Ambrose...................  Indiana
Molony, Justin John.........................Indiana
Martin, Paul Revere.........................Indiana
Martin, Joseph Andrew.......................Indiana
Meifeld, Frederick Henry....................Indiana
Morrison, Denis Augustine......................Iowa
Monaghan, Edward ..............................Iowa
Mein, Frank Joseph.............................Iowa
Miller, Lynn Edison..........................Kansas
Maloney, James Ignatius...............Massachusetts
Murphy, John Patrick..................Massachusetts
Muriel, Salvador ..........................  Mexico
Murphy, Charles Anthony....................Michigan
Murphy, Edward Harold......................Michigan
Miltner, Charles Christopher...............Michigan
Mertes, Albert Thomas......................Michigan
Moritz, Adolph John........................Michigan
Madden, Francis Leo........................Michigan
Morrison, Harry Alphonsus..................Michigan
230
BULLETIN OF THE
Murphy, Eugene Elmer.....................Michigan
Mullally, Joseph Wilson..................Missouri
Mullally, John Norvell...................Missouri
Maroney, Joseph John.....................New	York
Minnick, William Francis.................New	York
Mullen, Leo Francis......................New	York
Murphy, William James....................New	York
Monaghan, James William..................New	York
Mahony, Henry Joseph.....................New	York
Murphy, Charles Clyde........................Ohio
Murphy, Joseph Benedict......................Ohio
Moriarty, Michael Lee........................Ohio
Miller, Martin Harold........................Ohio
Moushey, Paul Joseph.........................Ohio
Misch, Edgar John............................Ohio
Marshall, Charles Joseph.....................Ohio
Mullin, John Henry...................Pennsylvania
Markey, Paul Thomas..................Pennsylvania
Miner, Peter Joseph..................Pennsylvania
Murphy, Charles William..............Pennsylvania
Molina, Alejandro..................South	America
Morrill, Fred Alwyn....................Washington
Metcalf, Albert Lorenzo.................Wisconsin
Mott, Rogers Joseph.....................Wisconsin
Monroe, Richard James...................Wisconsin
Michaud, Philip Louis...................Wisconsin
Moran, William James....................Wisconsin
Mayer, Theodore G.......................Wisconsin
McPhee, John Elmer.......................Colorado
McElroy, Leo Cyril....................Connecticut
McCarthy, William Frank..................Illinois
McKee, John .............................Illinois
McClory, Joseph William..................Illinois
McAleenan, Howard W......................Illinois
McDonagh, Harry Francis..................Illinois
McDonald, Lawrence.....................  Illinois
McInerney, Francis Michael...............Illinois
McBride, James Charles...................Illinois
McGuire, William Anthony.................Illinois
McCarthy, Richard Francis................Illinois
McDonough, Edward .......................Illinois
McMorran, William Edward.................Illinois
McLaughlin, James Henry..................Illinois
McNally, James Forrest....................Indiana
Meuninck, Julius .........................Indiana
McDonald, Donald Patrick..................Indiana
McCarthy, Jeremiah A......................Indiana
McKenzie, Donald John.....................Indiana
McKindley, Daniel Edward..................Indiana
McKindley, Hugh Arthur....................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
231
McDonald, Meredith Raymond...............Indiana
McMahon, James Donald....................Indiana
McConlogue, Raymond Barragy.................Iowa
McGee, Earl Lester..........................Iowa
McGill, Robert Joseph...................Kentucky
McGarry, William Everett...........Massachusetts
McCarthy, Hiram George..................Michigan
MacDonald, Angus Joseph.................Michigan
McCormick, Francis Foster..............Minnesota
McGuire, Michael Joseph................Minnesota
McNulty, John Francis...................Missouri
McConnell, Andrew Harold................Nebraska
McBride, Walter Joseph.................New York
McSweeney, John Patrick................New York
McCassy, Stanley	Whan......................Ohio
McLaughlin, John	Edward....................Ohio
McGuire, Thomas	Carruthers................Ohio
McMahon, John Berchmans.....................Ohio
McCann, William	Joseph....................Ohio
McDonald, Paul Ambrose......................Ohio
McHugh, Edwin Charles.......................Ohio
McNamee, Ignatius Edward..................Oregon
McKinnie, Gerald Fleming............Pennsylvania
McElhone, James Francis.............Pennsylvania
McCarthy, Cornelius Charles.........Pennsylvania
McCague, John Francis...............Pennsylvania
McGladigan, Gerald Joseph...........Pennsylvania
McGladigan, Thomas Antnony..........Pennsylvania
McDermott, Edward Louis.............Pennsylvania
McBride, Francis Bernard............Pennsylvania
McBride, Edmund Leo.................Pennsylvania
McCarthy, Grover Cleveland..........South Dakota
McGrath, Martin Chester.............South Dakota
McHugh, Frank Joseph..................Washington
McCafferty, James Pancratius..........Washington
Nelson, Paul Daniel.....................Illinois
Nelson, William Thomas..................Illinois
Newton, Joseph Augustine................Illinois
Noble, Edward James.....................Illinois
Newton, Ralph William...................Illinois
Newton, Frank Quitterfield..............Illinois
Nachowicz, Theophilus Jacob.............Illinois
Nash, Richard ..............................Iowa
Nieto, Francisco Garza....................Mexico
Norton, Daniel Learned..................Michigan
Newman, Louis Joseph........•..........Minnesota
Neble, Eyvin Mark.......................Nebraska
Neble, Sephus F.........................Nebraska
232
BULLETIN OF THE
Nugent, John Francis.......................New	Jersey
Nicholas, B.....................................Ohio
Norckauer, Maurice	Joseph.....................Ohio
Nolan, Daniel James.............................Ohio
Nolan, Michael Harvey...........................Ohio
O’Connell, John Charles.....................Illinois
O’Connell, Thomas Barry.....................Illinois
O’Farrell, Charles Whitty...................Illinois
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph....................  Illinois
Osborn, Lee ................................Illinois
Oelerich, Joseph Fred.......................Illinois
O’Brien, Sylvester Leo......................Illinois
O’Brien, James Francis......................Illinois
O’Brien, William Austin.....................Illinois
O’Leary, James .............................Illinois
O’Brien, Thomas Sheridan....................Illinois
Ogus, Edward Isidore........................Illinois
O’Shea, Dennis Aloysius.....................Illinois
Orminski, John Charles......................Illinois
O’Neill, Ronald Sylvester....................Indiana
O’Hara, John Francis.........................Indiana
Oltsch, George John..........................Indiana
O’Brien, Wilmer Leo..........................Indiana
O’Donnell, Thomas Raymond....................Indiana
Owen, B................................,.....Indiana
O’Connor, Arthur James..........................Iowa
O’Dowd, Francisco ..........................  Mexico
O’Brien, James Joseph.......................Michigan
O’Brien, Bernard Francis....................Michigan
O’Donnell, John ............................Michigan
O’Brien, Cornelius ........................Minnesota
O’Neil, Joseph Augustus.....................Missouri
O’Neil, Henry William.......................Missouri
0‘Flynn, James Baldwin.......................Montana
Ohmer, Robert Fasold............................Ohio
Ohmer, Henry Beckman............................Ohio
Oshe, Marcellus Michael......................:.. Ohio
O’Rourke, Charles ..............................Ohio
O’Neill, Thomas Francis.........................Ohio
O’Brien, John Frank........................ Oklahoma
O’Herron, Edward Michael................Pennsylvania
O’Neil, John Paul.......................Pennsylvania
Olston, Frank Michael...................West	Virginia
Opgenorth, Arthur Francis..................Wisconsin
Parish, William Joseph......................Illinois
Porter, Ralp.u Hill.........................Illinois
Powers. Frederick William...................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
233
Paule, Cornelius Harrington...............Illinois
Polakow, Julius...........................Illinois
Potts, George Joseph.......................Indiana
Pierce, Gerald Otto........................Indiana
Peak, John Eleanor...........................Indiana
Probst, Rudolph Otto.........................Indiana
Phillips, Wendell Thomas...............Massachusetts
Petit, Carlos ................................Mexico
Prendergast, George Patrick.................Missouri
Pierce, Edward..............................New	York
Preston, Norman Charles.....................New	York
Peurrung, Joseph Charles.....................Ohio
Paine, Robert Edward........................Texas
Philbrook, George Warren...............Washington
Pick, Carl Stephen......................Wisconsin
Prawdzich, Adolph ......................Wisconsin
Plummer, Wm. Francis................... Wisconsin
Quinlan, Joseph Andrew.......................Illinois
Quinn, James Francis.........................Illinois
Quinn, Vincent Bernard.......................Illinois
Qualmann, Paul Henry..........................Indiana
Quintanilla, Ignacio ..........................Mexico
Quinn, Edmund John.........................New York
Quinn, Walter Leo........................South	Dakota
Quealy, Jay Ambrose...........................Wyoming
Rivas, Gustavo Frank.........................Cuba
Rubio, Roman Garcia..........................Cuba
Railton, Bert Aloysius...................Illinois
Reed, Lawrence Conway....................Illinois
Rempe, George Aloysius...................Illinois
Rains, Wilbur Everingham.................Illinois
Rempe, William Lester....................Illinois
Rempe, Harold Ray........................Illinois
Rafferty, Harry Thomas...................Illinois
Railton, John R. T.......................Illinois
Richter, Carl Hugo.......................Illinois
Reed, Richard Joseph.....................Illinois
Raff, Frank Denis........................Illinois
Raczkowski, Theodore Thaddeus............Illinois
Russel, James Francis....................Illinois
Rumely, Mark Anthony......................Indiana
Ritter, Forest Hamilton...................Indiana
Reitz, Leroy Theodore.....................Indiana
Roberts, Raymond Andrew...................Indiana
Roth, Jesse Henry.........................Indiana
Rush, Paul ...............................Indiana
Reed, Norman James........................Indiana
Rokop, Andrew Michaelm ,..................Indiana
234	BULLETIN OF THE
Rozewicz, Anthony John......................Indiana
Ridgeway, Hervey John.......................Indiana
Ruell, Ulric .........................Massachusetts
Romero, Joaquin..............................Mexico
Rosso, Jose Rubio............................Mexico
Ramirez, Frank ..............................Mexico
Ramirez, Robert .............................Mexico
Rutkoski, Harry Thomas.....................Michigan
Reps, William Frank........................Missouri
Robins, James Vermont..................New Mexico
Radel, Edward Herman...................New Jersey
Redding, James F............................New	York
Ryan, William Richard..........................Ohio
Ros, Carlos Manuel...................Panama, C. A.
Ros, Gustavo Adolfo..................Panama, C. A.
Ruof, John Edward......................Pennsylvania
Robinson, Gerald Charles...............Pennsylvania
Rice, William H........................Pennsylvania
Romana, Juan Manuel..................South America
Ryan, William Joseph...................South Dakota
Richmond, Charles Milton......................Texas
Reader, Leon Hardy.............................Utah
Rothwell, Erwin Carl........................Wyoming
Rolph, William Frank.................West Virginia
Reynolds, Lawrence .......................Wisconsin
Ritter, Claude Andrew.........................Texas
Sellers, Felix Jefferson....................Alabama
Springer, Albert G.........................Colorado
Simon, Arturo Thomas...........................Cuba
San Pedro, Manuel Rodriguez....................Cuba
Spear, Arthur Upham......................California
Spotswood, Robert Wolcott..................Colorado
Seymour, Arthur Vivian.......................Canada
San Pedro, Alvaro Rodriguez....................Cuba
Stoughton, Dwight Harold................Connecticut
Susen, Theodore Albert.....................Illinois
Smith, Thomas Barrett......................Illinois
Smith, Howard Francis......................Illinois
Stevenson, Flournoy D. J...................Illinois
Shaughnessy, Thomas Joseph.................Illinois
Schwalbe, Joseph William...................Illinois
Schuster, George Clarence..................Illinois
Sippel, George Bruno.......................Illinois
Sippel, Edward Anthony.....................Illinois
Stack, James Joseph........................Illinois
Sobolewski, Wenceslaus Anthony.............Illinois
Somers, Michael Francis.'..................Illinois
Stilling, George Arthur....................Illinois
Scholl, Carl August........................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
235
Sickler, Francis John......................Illinois
Schwalbe, Oscar Henry......................Illinois
SUllivan, John Francis.....................Illinois
Schoessling, Paul Herbert..................Illinois
Schinkoeth, LeRoy..........................Illinois
Seery, Thomas .............................Illinois
Stevenson, Job Evans.......................Illinois
Stees, Leland Mayhews......................Illinois
Stephan, Leo Joseph........................Illinois
Schickler, Clarence Peter..................Illinois
Shurte, Glenn Shelvin......................Illinois
Steers, Fred Llewellyn.....................Illinois
Sack, Ebenezer Claude......................Illinois
Schumacher, Leo A...........................Indiana
Smithmeyer, Joseph Henry....................Indiana
Sturkin, Robert Leroy.......................Indiana
Slick, John Lucius..........................Indiana
Shupert, Lawrence...........................Indiana
Strayer, Vere Augustus......................Indiana
Szymanski, Ladislaus Leo....................Indiana
Stueckle, Clarence Charles..................Indiana
Schindler, John William.....................Indiana
Siewertsen, Rudolph Lorenz..................Indiana
Sinnott, Myles Hilt.........................Indiana
Swearingen, James Bennett...................Indiana
Schubert, Francis Xavier....................Indiana
Schreyer, Andrew Ignatius...................Indiana
Szamecki, Stanislaus Peter..................Indiana
Schrader, Harry John........................Indiana
Shourds, Dalton Bacon.......................Indiana
Shannon, John Hastings......................Indiana
Sundberg, Bertram John.........................Iowa
Sullivan, Thomas Hartnett.............Massachusetts
Shea, Jeremiah James..................Massachusetts
Sanchez, Alfred Arnulfo....................  Mexico
Sahagun, Jesse...............................Mexico
Satomayor, Luis Gavino.......................Mexico
Swikoski, Stanislaus A.....................Michigan
Scott, James ..............................Michigan
Simon, John ...............................Michigan
Sullivan, Ernest Vincent...................Michigan
Sturn, Leo Alfred..........................Michigan
Schmitt, William Charles..................Minnesota
Steinhoff, Homan Victor....................Missouri
Schmid, Otto Aloysius......................Missouri
Steinhoff, Edmond Yore.....................Missouri
Swain, Alvah Benjamin...................Mississippi
Shannon, Leo Justin.........................Montana
Scanlon, Ambrose James...................New York
Sugarman, Louis..........................New York
236	BULLETIN OF THE
Sexton, Warren...........................  New	York
Scanlon, Raymond Joseph...................New	York
Scanlon, Francis Aloysius................  New	York
Sorg, Claude A. ..........................New	York
Streff, Anthony Lawrence...................Nebraska
Sherwood, Miner .......................... Nebraska
Strassner, George Francis......................Ohio
Shenk, Robert Raymond..........................Ohio
Shepard, George Martin.........................Ohio
Sands, George Washington.....................  Ohio
Sexton, James Clement..........................Ohio
Sheehan, Thomas Anthony........................Ohio
Sawkins, John Alfred.........................  Ohio
Sexton, Philip John........................    Ohio
Schmitt, Paul Anthony..........................Ohio
Soisson, Joseph Leon...........................Ohio
Story, Edward .............................Oklahoma
Smith, Paul Eldridge.........................Oregon
Serowinski, Ladislaus Francis..........Pennsylvania
Stoakes, Laurence Mitchell.............Pennsylvania
Stewart, FranK P.......................Pennsylvania
Sullivan, Herbert Baker.................North Dakota
Soisson, Robert Regis.................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Basil Joseph..................Pennsylvania
Spillane, John Owen..................-.Pennsylvania
Skelly, Raymond Edward..................Pennsylvania
Skopowski, Hippolitus Joseph..................Russia
Schlichting, Victor Hugo..............South Dakota
Sieber, Raymond Joseph.....................Wisconsin
Schuster, Daniel Devendorf.................Wisconsin
Shea, Edmund Burke.........................Wisconsin
Scullin, John Emmett.......................Wisconsin
Taylor, Harold Epping.......................Illinois
Tomczak, Ladislaus Proch....................Illinois
Trumbull, Selden ...........................Illinois
Tighe, Raymond Leo..........................Illinois
Tully, John C...............................Illinois
Todd, Ralph L...............................Illinois
Theurer, Joseph George......................Illinois
Toth, Joseph Michael..............;..........Indiana
Tharp, Robert Woodson........................Indiana
Talcott, Rodney Danforth.....................Indiana
Talcott, Vaughan Henry......................Kentucky
Trevino, Jose Oscar...........................Mexico
Trevino, Gustavo Lorenzo......................Mexico
Truscott, Fred Louis.........................Montana
Tipton, William Reuben...................New	Mexico
Tranchant, George Griffith......................Ohio
Tyler, Cyril John.............................  Ohio
Theophilus, B...........................Pennsylvania
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
237
Ulatowski, Clement Lambert..............Illinois
Underwood, Eugene ......................Illinois
Ullrich, Louis Frederick................Illinois
VanCleve, Franklin H..................  Illinois
Vyzral, Sylvester ......................Illinois
Van Beersum, Gerard......................Indiana
Vaughan, Robert Edward.....................Indiana
Voelkers, John Joseph......................Indiana
Vera, Jesse Eustaquio.......................Mexico
VonPhul, Carol Aloysius...................Missouri
Villaflor, Pastor.................Philippine	Islands
Veazey, Louis Alphonse.  ............West Virginia
Veazey, Oscar Edward.................West Virginia
Von Zelewsky, Eric.......................Wisconsin
Woods, James Allen...........................California
Welden, Roland Eugene..........................Colorado
Welden, Louis James............................Colorado
Walsh, Francis Marion..........................Illinois
Walter, Martin Emmett..........................Illinois
Welch, Thomas Rowland..........................Illinois
White, Harold George...........................Illinois
Wagenknight, Oscar Chamberlain.................Illinois
Welsh, Leo John.......................................Illinois
Wasson, John .........................................Illinois
Washburn, George Edward....................Illinois
Waldorf, Rufus William.....................Illinois
White, Gerald Francis......................Illinois
White, Alfred Rossiter.....................Illinois
Walsh, Francis ............................Illinois
Wrobel, John Joseph.........................Indiana
Wenninger, Francis Joseph...................Indiana
Wolford, Fred Raymond.......................Indiana
Ware, James Michael.........................Indiana
Wheeler, Lawrence .........................Indiana
Warrell, Charles Frederick.................Indiana
Williams, Matthew Francis..................Indiana
Walsh, Edmund	Carroll.....................Iowa
Wolff, George William.....................Mexico
Weeks, Edward	James...................Michigan
Wilson, William	Harold..................Michigan
Whitmore, Harley........................Michigan
Wrape, Alba Henry.......................Missouri
Wirthman, Fred George...................Missouri
Walker, Frank Comerford.................Montana.
Ward, Walter Ray......................  New	York
Wolf, Leo Bertrand......................New	York
Wilson, John Marion.....................New	York
238
BULLETIN OF THE
Wood, Fay Franklin.......................New	York
Wilson, Samuel Thompson......................Ohio
Walsh, George Patrick........................Ohio
Whaley, William Marvin.......................Ohio
Wallace, Augustus Heronimus..........Pennsylvania
White, Carl Bradford....................Tennessee
White, Richard Mitchell.................Tennessee
Wittenberg, Jack Conrad............West Virginia
Wittenberg, John P. Newman.........West Virginia
Young, Ora Ray...............................Iowa
Youngerman, Frank ...........................Iowa
Yturria, Herminio .........................Mexico
Yturria, Fausto ...........................Mexico
Ybarguengoytia, Lorenzo ...................Mexico
Yund, Walter Victor.......................Montana
Zgodzinski, Leo Stanislaus.....................Indiana
Zapata, Jose ..............................Mexico
Zapata, Lino ..................................Mexico
Zink, William Ignatius.......................Ohio
Zimmer, Henry Joseph.................Pennsylvania
Zang, Leo H..........................Pennsylvania
Zundel, Charles Harold..................Wisconsin
Zundel, Lee Woodward....................Wisconsin
The
Notre Dame Alumni
Association
240
BULLETIN OF THE
OFFICERS.
Honorary President.
Very Rev. Andrew Morrissey; C. S. C., D. D., ’78,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
President.
Hon. Warren A. Cartier, ’87,
Ludington, Michigan.
Vice-Presidents.
Rev. Timothy O’Sullivan, ’88,
Chicago, Illinois.
Hon. Timothy E. Howard, ’62,
South Bend, Indiana.
John G. Ewing, ’77,
Chicago, Illinois.
John J. Kennedy, ’09,
Scottdale, Pennsylvania.
Daniel E. Murphy, ’95,
Chicago, Illinois.
Daniel V. Casey, ’95,
Chicago, Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
241
Secretary.
Rev. William Moloney, C. S. C., ’90,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Treasurer.
Hon. William P. Breen, ’77,
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Trustees ’OO-’ll.
Hon. John M. Gearin, ’71,
Portland, Oregon.
Gustavo L. Trevino, ’08,
Monterey, Mexico.
Hon. William L. Dechant, ’79,
Middletown, Ohio.
Trustees ’OS-’IO.
Samuel T. Murdock, ’86,
Lafayette, Indiana.
Byron V. Kanaley, ’04,
Chicago, Illinois.
Hon. Charles P. Neill, ’93,
Washington, D. C.
Trustees, ex-officio.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., D. D., ’90.
President University of Notre Dame.
Hon. Warren A. Cartier, *87,
President Notre Dame Alumni Association.
242
BULLETIN OF THE
LOCAL CLUBS
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK.
Rev. Luke J. Evers, President, 20 City Hall Place.
Charles A. Gorman, Vice-President, 208 Hooper St.,
Brooklyn.
Peter P. M. McElligott, Secretary, 112 Wall St.
Thomas Murray, Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON.
Dr. Francis E. Carroll, President, 217 Huntington Ave.
Hon. William P. Higgins, Vice President, 43 -Tremont
Street.
Dr. John Fennessey, Secretary, Dorchester.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA.
James P. Fogarty, President, Betz Bldg.
Joseph D. Murphy, Vice-President.
Andrew J. Hanhauser, Secretary, 27 N. Fiftieth St.
John H. Neeson, Treasurer, 1701 Columbia Ave.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Bldg.
Frank P. Burke, Vice-President, 900 Pabst Bldg.
George F. Ziegler, Secretary.
Louis E. Best, Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON.
John C. Shea, President.
Peter Kuntz, Vice-President.
A. W. McFarland, Secretary-Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PORTLAND.
Hon. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
John F. Daly, Vice-President.
F. J. Lonergan, Sec.-Treas., Columbia University.
Sixty “Fifth
Annual Commencement
Degrees, Honors, Prize Medals

244
BULLETIN OF THE
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on
The Reverend Thomas C. O’Reilly, Cleveland,
Ohio.
The Honorable Hannis Taylor, Washington, D. C.
The Degree of Master in Civil Engineering was
conferred on
Jose Angel Caparo, Peru, South America.
Thesis: The Elastic Parabolic Arch versus the
Elastic Circular Arch as regards simplicity and econ-
omy in the design of a Steel Arch—first, when tho web
is solid; second, when the web is open.
The Degree of Master in Electrical Engineering
was conferred on
Gustavo Lorenzo Trevino, Monterey, Mexico.
Thesis: Improvements on the Automatic Tele-
phony since 1903 and Design of Pay-Station and Illu-
minated Dial.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Richard Joseph Collentine, Monroe, -Wisconsin.
John McDill Fox, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
John Bernard Kanaley, Weedsport, New York.
John Joseph Kennedy, Scottdale, Pennsylvania.
Henry Aloysius Ledwidge, Pittsburg, Pa.
Thomas Oswald Maguire, Chicago, Illinois.
Ignatius Edward McNamee, Portland, Oregon.
John Berchmans McMahon, Toledo, Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred
on	-
Edward Patrick Cleary, Momence, Illinois.
Albert Francis Gushurst, Lead, South Dakota.
James Emmett Scullin, Stoughton, Wisconsin.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
245
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was con-
ferred on
Leo James Hogan,-Steubenville, Ohio.
James Francis Hines, Kewane, Indiana.
Otto Aloysius Schmid, Sheffield, Kansas City, Mo.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry
was conferred on
Albert Thomas Mertes, Traverse City, Michigan.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architec-
ture was conferred on
Henry William Carr, Peoria, Illinois.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on
Edwin Douglas Bonham, Painted Post, New York.
Edward Paul Escher, Braddock, Pennsylvania.
William Arthur Gowrie, San Pedro de Macoris,
Santo Domingo.
Leo Dominic Hamerski, Winona, Minnesota.
Francisco Garza Nieto, Monterey, Mexico.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred
on
Leo Joseph Hannon, Olean, New York.
Arturo Tomas Simon, Guantanamo, Cuba.
The Degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred
on
Jose Angel Caparo, Peru, South America.
Rufus William Waldorf, Mendota, Illinois.
James Francis Gavagan, La Junta, Colorado.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on
Edmund James Arvey, Green Bay, Wisconsin.
Edward Peter Carville,-Skelton, Nevada.
John Vernon Diener, Baraboo, Wisconsin.
Daniel Cornelius Dillon, Butler, Pennsylvania.
246
BULLETIN OF THE
Robert Adam Kasper, Chicago, Illinois.
Rex Edward Lamb, Buchanan, Michigan.
John McKee, Chicago, Illinois.
Sophus F. Neble, Omaha, Nebraska.
Walter Leo Quinn, Clark, South Dakota.
Forrest Hamilton Ritter, Topeka, Indiana.
John William Schindler, Mishawaka, Indiana.
Francis Comerford Walker, Butte, Montana.
Fay Franklin Wood, Syracuse, New York.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was con-
ferred on
Hiram G. McCarthy, Mackinac Island, Michigan.
Manuel Rodriguez San Pedro, Consalacion del Sur,
Cuba.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was con-
ferred on
Carl Stanford Ayres, South Bend, Indiana.
John Henry Ahern, Salem, South Dakota.
Timothy Vincent Harrington, Solomon, Kansas.
James Ignatius Maloney, Needham, Massachusetts.
Raymond Joseph Scanlon, Syracuse, New York.
Commercial Diplomas were conferred on
Harry Joseph Bennett, Crooksville, Ohio.
Julio Y. Alarcon, Cuernavaca, Mexico.
Joseph Alphonsus Bennett, New Lexington, Ohio.
James Edward Culligan, Alpena, Michigan.
Rogers Joseph Mott, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Harry Thomas Rafferty, Canton, Illinois.
Edward Story, Elk City, Oklahoma.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical
Engineering were awarded to
Adolfo Manuel Duarte, Colombia, South America.
Charles Leon de Lunden, Brussels, Belgium.
Howard Edwards, South Bend, Indiana.
Jose Trinidad Lopez, Queretaro, Mexico.

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	247
Certificates for the Short Program tn Mechani-
cal Engineering were awarded to
Edmund Victor Bucher, Logansport, Indiana.
Henry Valentine Garvey, Streator, Illinois.
Edward Harper Gunster, Scranton, Pennsylvania.
Oscar Edward Veazey, Charlestown, W. Virginia.
Harry John Schrader, Jonesboro, Indiana.
Leo John Welsh, Williamsfield, Illinois.
PRIZE MEDALS
. The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having
the best record in the Classical Program, Sen-
ior Year, and a money prize of twenty-five
dollars, gift of Mr. Henry W. Quan, in mem-
ory of his deceased father, were awarded to:
Ignatius Edward McNamee, Portland, Oregon.
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, pre-
sented by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, Covington,
Kentucky, was awarded to:
Otto Aloysius Schmid, Sheffield,- Kansas City, Mo.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratary, presented by
the Hon. William P. Breen of the class of '77,
was awarded to:
Ignatius Edward McNamee, Portland, Oregon.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by
Mr. A. S. Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, for
the best record for four years in the Civil
Engineering Program, was awarded to:
Leo Dominic Hamerski, Winona, Minn.
248
BULLETIN OF THE
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold for debating work,
was awarded as follows:
Thirty-five Dollars to
Richard Joseph Collentine, Monroe, Wisconsin.
Twenty Dollars to
John Bernard Kanaley, Weedsport, New York.
Twenty Dollars to
John Berchmans McMahon, Toledo, Ohio.
Sixty Dollars in Gold for debating work in the Law
School, presented by Mr. Francis H. Boland,
student ’87, was awarded as follows:
Twenty-five Dollars to
Francis Comerford Walker, Butte, Montana.
Twenty Dollars to
Edward Paul Donovan, Woodstock, Illinois.
Seven and One-half Dollars to
Edward Peter Carville, Skelton, Nevada.
Seven and One-half Dollars to
James Edward Deery, Indianapolis, Indiana.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented by
Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the class of ’89,
was awarded to:
A
George Joseph Finnigan, Malone, New York.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Sophomore Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the Class
of *91, was awarded to:
Francis Joseph Wenninger, South Bend, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	249
Ten Dollars in Gold for Freshman Oratory, present-
ed by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the Class of ’91,
was awarded to:
William Charles Cray, Bellows Falls, Vermont.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preparatory Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell, of the
Class of ’04, was awarded to:
Joseph Edward Kelley, Toledo, Ohio.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by the
Hon. P.T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to:
John McDill Fox, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
The Mason Gold Medal, presented by Mr. George
Mason, of Chicago, for the student of Carroll
Hall having the best record for the scholastic
year, was awarded to:
Juan Garcia Gonzalez, Satillo, Mexico.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine,
presented by the Rev. N. J. Fitzsimmons, Chi-
cago, was awarded to:
Carl B. White, Chattanooga, Tennessee.
The O’Brien Gold Medal for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence
A. O’Brien, of Chicago, was awarded to:
William Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
The Joseph A. Lyons Gold Medal for Elocution, was
awarded to:
George Lucas, South Bend, Indiana.
The Commercial Gold Medal for the best record in
the Commercial School was awarded to:
Rogers Joseph Mott, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
250	BULLETIN OF THE
INDEX
Administration Building, The 12
Admission to the Colleges,
19, 40, 52, 61, 67, 85, 93, 103
Advanced Standing.....20, 103
Alumni Association Officers.. 240
Anatomy, Courses in.... .47, 112
Architecture, The College of. 91
Architecture, Courses in..112
Arts and Letters, The College
of ...................... 38
Astronomy, Courses in.....117
Athletics.................17,	31
Bachelors’ Degrees....... 21
Bacteriology, Course in...117
Biology, Program in...... 59
Biological Laboratories...46
Board of Trustees......... 4
Board and Lodging....34, 215
Botany, Courses in.......118
Botanical Laboratories.... 47
Breen Medal.............. 27
Brownson Hall............ 16
Buildings...........  12,	18
Calendar ................. 3
Carroll Scholarship...... 25
Carroll Hall............. 17
Charter ................. 11
Chemical Engineering, The
Department of............ 88
Chemical Laboratories.... 14, 49
Chemistry, The Departm’t of, 57
Chemistry, Courses in.....120
Christian Doctrine,Courses in 126
Church, The...............12
Civil Engineering, The De-
partment of.............. 68
Civil Engineering, Courses in 126
Civil Government, Course in 194
Classics,The Department of.. 42
Colleges:
College of Arts and Letters 38
College of Architecture.... 91
College of Engineering.... 64
College of Law............102
College of Science........ 45
Commercial School.........207
Commencement..............243
Concerts and Lectures......31
Corby Hall................ 15
Courses of Instruction.. .Ill, 194
Debating Prize............ 28
Degrees ................21,	244
Directory of the	University.. 2
Directors of Halls......... 5
Discipline ............... 29
Doctor of Philosophy, The De-
gree of.................. 23
Dormitories...............15,	16
Drawing, Courses in 134, 137, 194
Economics, The Departm’t of 44
Economics, Courses in.....178
Elocution, Courses in.....143
Elocution Medals.......... 28
Electrical Engineering, The
Department of............. 80
Electrical Engineering,
Courses in...............141
Engineering, The College of 64
English, Courses in....145, 195
Entrance Requirements,
19, 40, 52, 61, 67, 85, 93, 103
Executive Officers ........ 5
Expenses...............34, 215
Faculty ...............6, 186
Ford Scholarships .......... 26
French, Courses in. .180, 182, 197
Geology, Courses in.........146
German, Courses in.....148,. 199
Graduate Courses. .120, 125,
146, 152, 154, 157, 159, 175, 180
Grammar School........... 206
Greek, Courses in......149, 198
Gymnasium .................17
History and Economics, The
Department of........... 44
History, Courses in....152, 199
Historical Sketch of the Uni-
versity ................. 11
Honors and Prizes,.....26, 247
Hospital.................. 17
Hughes Medal.............. 27
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
251
Infirmary.....................17
Instruction, System of....... 18
Instructors in the Prepara-
tory School.................186
Italian, Courses in..........182
Johnson Scholarship.......... 25
Laboratory Fees,
55, 57, 59, 62, 67, 189
Laboratories............39,
46, 47, 49, 50, 69, 72, 73, 80, 91
Latin Courses in.........154, 200
Law, The College of..........102
Law, Courses in............109
Lectures and Concerts...... 31
Letters, The Department of.. 43
Library, The Main.......... 12
Libraries, Department,
39, 46, 60, 62, 76, 107
List of Students...........217
Lodging, Board and......34, 215
Local Clubs................242
Mason Medal .................26
Masters’ Degrees........... 22
Mathematics, Courses in, 157, 201
Meehan Medal............... 27
Mechanical Engineering, The
Department of............ 72
Mechanical Engineering,
Courses in...............160
Medals, Prize...........26,	247
Metallurgy, Courses in.....166
Microscopy, Courses in.....167
Minims, The School for.....211
Mining Engineering, The De-
partment of...............87
Mining Engineering, Course
in ......................167
Museum .................... 13
Music Hall................. 13
Music, Courses in..........168
Observatory................ 15
Officers of the University.... 5
Oratory, Courses in........143
Pharmacy, The Department
of....................... 61
Pharmacy, Courses in.......171
Philosophy, Courses in.....173
Physical Laboratories...... 50
Physics, Courses in........175
Physiology, Courses in.......177
Political Science, Courses in 178
Politics, Courses in........179
Portuguese, Courses in.......182
Preparatory School.......185, 189
Prizes...................26, 247
Professors .................. 6
Program of Studies 4,2, 43, 44, 56,
57, 58, 60, 63, 71, 77, 79, 84, 86,
89, 90, 99, 100, 101, 190, 191,
192, 193, 209.
Provencal, Courses in........183
Psychology, Courses in.......173
Psychological Laboratory.... 39
Quan Medal......................26	»
Regulations Governing Ad-
mission to the Colleges.... 19
Romance Languages, Courses
in .......................180
Scholarships................. 25
Science Hall................. 13
Science, The College	of. 45
Science, Program	of	General 54
Science, Courses in Elemen-
tary .....................204
Short, Programs in
Architecture............98,	101
Electrical Engineering.... 85
Mechanical Engineering... 78
Shops, The................. 15
Shopwork, Courses in.......165
Sociology, Courses in......179
Societies ................. 33
Sorin Hall................. 15
Spanish, Courses in........181
Special Students........24, 103
Students, List of..........217
St. Joseph Hall............ 17
System of Instruction...... 18
Title (Legal) of the Univer-
sity ....................... 11
Theater, The University.....13
Trustees, Board of.......... 4
Tuition Fees............34,	215
University of Notre Dame... 11
Walsh Hall................. 16
Washington Hall............ 13
Zoology, Courses in........183