7
SERIES V
NUMBER II
Printed Quarterly by ,
The University
'BULLETIN
OF THE
University dr N

St. Edward’s Hall
Entered as Second-Class Matter in the Postoffice
Notre Dame, Indiana, October, 1909
SERIES V
NUMBER II
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
(The School for Minims)
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
October, 1909
Entered at the Postoffice. Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class matter, July 17, 1905
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Directory of Communication
The Faculty—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Pupils'—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of St.
Edward's Hall should be added.
There are at the University a Postoffice, a Telegraph
Office, a Long Distance Telephone, and an Express
Office.
RAILROAD FACILITIES.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore & Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
St. Joseph, South Bend & Southern, and the Michigan
Central railways run directly into South Bend.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.

M Ball
T. EDWARD’S HALL is the Grammar
School maintained by the University
of Notre Dame. To this School, es-
tablished for the special care and
training of boys under thirteen years
of age, the most scrupulous attention
has always been paid by the President
of the University. It is also known as the School for
Minims.
In building the University of Notre Dame, the foun-
ders sought to make it a center from which the benefits
of Christian education might radiate to the youth of
the land. Realizing, however, that, to enter the Uni-
versity proper, a certain standard of excellence must
first be reached, it was decided that such a degree of
excellence as is required could be obtained better if a
preparatory school were maintained in connection with
the University. It was found that, when students
come here after completing their preparatory course
in High Schools or in Academies, they were qualified
thoroughly enough in some studies, whereas in others
they were rather deficient. Thus a student who entered
as a Freshman in some studies, might be two or three
years behind in others, and he would be held back to
make up the deficiency. But if the student were given
right opportunities for making his elementary and pre-
paratory studies in an institution which would carry
his education from grammar school work until he was
6
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
graduated from the college, much time and trouble
would be saved, and the student on entering his college
work would have a better foundation. Since the open-
ing of the University, therefore, ample facilities have
been given to students desiring preparatory education
as well as to those who desire to pursue more advanced
studies. A separate school for preparatory courses has
been maintained from the beginning, and as need de-
manded. St. Edward’s Hall was eventually erected as
a school in which young boys could be instructed in
grammar school work. During the first year of its
existence the school was in charge of lay teachers; but
in 1863 the Very Reverend Father Sorin, the founder
of Notre Dame, who, during his lifetime, took great
pride in this department, decided it would be more ad-
vantageous to have the pupils in charge of Sisters. Ac-
cordingly, Mother Mary of St. Angela, the foundress of
the Order of the Sisters of Holy Cross in America, was
entrusted with the organization of the school as we
have it today.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Latin, French, Spanish, and German. Vocal music,
elocution, military drill, physical culture, and drawing
involve no extra charge. The pupils of this School are
taught by the Sisters of Holy Cross, who are noted for
their efficiency as teachers. Some special studies such
as elocution, physical culture, military drill, gymnas-
tics, and debating, are taught by instructors of the
University.
The boys are always under supervision. From the
day of their entrance they are made to feel that they
are not strangers, but the children of the house. Four
ST. EDWARD’S HAL
7
Brothers of Holy Cross preside in the sleeping apart-
ments, gymnasium, and natatorium, accompanying
them on their walks, and, in general, see to them during
the recreation hours. The presence of the Brothers,
however, is far from being a restraint on the amuse-
ment of the boys; for while it is the duty of the Broth-
ers to insist that the young students shall always keep
within the limits of the strictest propriety, they, at, the
same time, take part in all sports of the boys, organize
games, and do everything in their power to foster the
love of healthy exercise.
St. Edward’s Hall is unique in the completeness of
its equipment. It affords the pupils the rare advan-
tages of the University and the tender care of the
Sisters. The fact that the boys come from the best
families, and from all over the country, and that among
them are the sons of former Minims, is sufficient evi-
dence of the advantages afforded by St. Edward’s Hall.
The Scholastic Year begins the second week in
September and closes about the twentieth of June.
Students are received at any time in the year, and the
expenses for board and tuition commence with the date
of their entrance.
8
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
DEPARTMENT FOR LITTLE BOYS.
gT the request of parents who desire their children
to make their initial studies in St. Edward’s
Hall and to continue them at Notre Dame until
completion, a separate department has been opened for
boys under seven years of age. They have a special
study hall, separate class rooms and sleeping apart-
ments, and a dining room in which food specially pre-
pared and suitable for them is served. The hours for
sleep and study are arranged to suit their tender age.
But while their hours for study are few, it is remark-
able how rapidly these little boys progress. When
they have completed their thirteenth year they are usu-
ally found to be as far advanced in their studies as
the ordinary boy of fifteen.
LAWN FROM MAIN BUILDING.
END OF CORRIDOR, MAIN ENTRANCE.
O
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
11
The Buildings and Accom-
modations.
EDWARD’S HALL is located in the northeast
corner of the University group of buildings, a
little to the north of the Academy of Music, and
east of the Administration Building. It is a large,
four-story brick building, one hundred and fifty feet
long and sixty-five feet wide. In the chapel, the corri-
dors, and the parlor, are paintings by the celebrated
Florentine artist, Signor Gregori, who spent nearly
twenty years at the University and left his life-
work here. The various rooms in St. Edward’s
Hall are large, well lighted and well ventilated. The
ceilings are sixteen feet high. The building is heated
throughout by steam, lighted by electricity, supplied
with hot and cold water. No fire is used in any part
of the building. Bath rooms are connected with the
sleeping apartments. The equipment is, in every re-
spect, as thorough and as up-to-date as carefulness
and a generous expenditure of money can make it.
One of the things that most readily appears to the eye
of an observer is the order and scrupulous cleanliness
on all sides. Even in the play rooms, where it might
be expected that young boys would leave things in a
careless condition, everything is as neat and orderly as
one would find in a well-conducted home.
On the east end of the building is an annex, two
hundred and fifty feet long, which does not show in
the picture of the Hall. It is divided into a library,
game rooms, play-hall, gymnasium, athletic club rooms,
clothes rooms, etc. In this annex complete facilities
12
ST. EDWARD’S HALiu.
are offered to the young boys for spending recreation
hours in a manner most suitable to their age and
tastes.
Fronting the buildings is St. Edward’s Park,
which with its rare trees, plants, and gorgeous flower
beds, is considered the most beautiful portion of the
University grounds, which have attracted attention
as the most impressive college grounds in the country.
The Hall, with its annex, has a frontage on this park
of four hundred feet.
1
A CORNER OF ST. EDWARD’S PARK.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
13
14
ST. EDWARD’S HARD.
THE MAIN STUDY HALL.
The main Study Hall for the more advanced pupils
among the Minims is located on the ground floor in
the center of the building. It is a large room, well
lighted and well ventilated, commanding a charming
view from each of its many large windows. The Hall
presents quite an artistic appearance, being tastefully
decorated with beautiful statuary, rare pictures, pot-
ted plants, etc. Besides the pleasure the students de-
rive from studying in this bright, beautiful Hall, their
tastes are cultivated by coming in contact with ob-
jects so refining.
A CLASS ROOM.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
15
16
ST. EDWARD'S HALL
SORIN ASSOCIATION ROOM.
Here the Sorin Association holds its meetings. It
contains a piano, and all the furniture necessary to
make it a convenient and comfortable place for society
meetings. In one end is a platform which serves the
purpose of a stage. Back of this is a large fresco bj7
Gregori,—an historical picture showing the founding
of the University of Notre Dame.
MANDOLIN CLUB.
YOUNG THESPIANS.
IS
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE CHAPEL.
The chapel, with its beautiful altars, rare statues,
imported stained glass windows, pipe organ, and rich
paintings from the brush of Signor Gregori, is a gem
of art. No boy can fail to be impressed by the loveli-
ness of this little shrine. The stories of the beautiful
lives of saintly and heroic men and women commemor-
ated in the windows and paintings do much towards the
moral betterment of the boys. The pupils assemble for
a few minutes, morning and evening, in this chapel for
their prayers.
ST. JOHN’S CHAPEL.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
19
s
THE REFECTORY.
The Minims take their meals in a separate dining
room. Special attention is given to variety in the
menu and to providing the best the markets offer. All
of what is placed before the students is the product
of the University gardens and ovens. Pure whole-
some food is thus assured.
THE DINING ROOM.
20
ST. ED WARD’S HADI
ONE OF THE DORMITORIES.
THE DORMITORIES.
The sleeping apartments are all commodious and
well ventilated. Each one is presided over by a Brother.
The most noticeable thing in connection with these
dormitories is the immaculate cleanliness that prevails
throughout. The beds have springs with the ordinary
mattresses, and over this is placed the hair mattress.
Bedding is provided in abundance during cold weather.
There is nothing lacking to keep the boys comfortable.
Bath rooms with hot and cold water are connected with
the sleeping apartments.
THE CLOTHES ROOM.
22
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE CLOTHES ROOM.
The clothes room is an important apartment in St.
Edward’s Hall. In this each pupil has his wardrobe.
Sisters are constantly in charge. They attend to the
mending, etc., see to the personal neatness of the boys,
take charge of the trunks on the arrival of the pupils,
mark and take an inventory of the clothing, etc., which
A LAVATORY.
they place in the lockers. The boys have free access to
the clothes room at all hours; and they receive from
the Sisters the clothes they may need from time to time.
Clothing is changed to suit the seasons, and it is the
duty of one of the prefects to see that the boys follow
this rule. Often when the temperature suddenly
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
23
changes in one day, they are made to change heavy
clothes for light, or light for heavy. Underwear is
changed once a week.
THE LAVATORIES.
The lavatories, supplied with hot and cold water,
are located on the lower floor near the clothes room so
that they can be conveniently reached at all times either
from the campus, from the clothes room, or from the
athletic dressing rooms. The Minims are obliged to
make their toilet here before every meal, and Sisters
are present to assist and to see that it is properly done.
All are required to brush their teeth carefully. Baths
are taken once a week or oftener as parents may direct.
THE INFIRMARY.
So seldom is it that any of the boys of St. Edward’s
Hall are ill that no special infirmary has been found
necessary for them. When occasionally it happens that
one of them is indisposed he is placed under charge of
the Sisters at the University Infirmary and is visited, if
necessary, by the house physician. In case of sickness
the boy’s parents are invariably notified without delay.
Since the health of the students is of primary im-
portance, the sanitary regulations enforced are of the
most practical nature. Special attention is given to the
choice and the preparation of food, to the hours for ris-
ing and retiring, to meals, study, recreation, to the rules
affecting personal regimen, etc. The pure air, the regu-
lar life, perfect open plumbing, the extensive grounds,
which afford abundant opportunities for exercise,—all
contribute to the proverbial good health of the Minims.
24
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE NATATORIUM.
The building- in which the swimming pool is located
is commodious, ninety feet long, forty-five wide and
two stories in height. The pool itself is fifty-seven
feet in length, twenty-three feet in width, six and a half
feet in depth at one end. The water is lowered on days
reserved for the Minims. .On the same floor as the
swimming pool are eighteen needle and shower baths,
bath tubs, and closets, all with the latest equipment and
appliances. A student before using the swimming pool
must cleanse himself in one of these baths. In this
way the sanitary condition of the pool is faultless. The
building is heated by steam at 70 degrees Fahrenheit,
and lighted by electricity. A man is always in charge;
and when the Minims use the plunge they are accom-
panied by the Brothers.
ST. JOSEPH LAKE.
In warm weather the Minims are allowed to go
swimming every day in St. Joseph lake. Of all sports
this is one the boys particularly enjoy. However, they
are never permitted to go except in company with the
Brothers. There is absolutely no danger, and no acci-
dent has ever occurred among the Minims. They can-
not go beyond certain posts, and care is taken that they
do not remain too long in the water. Any one who is
affected by a cold or who is otherwise indisposed is
not permitted to swim in the lake or in the natatorium.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
25
THE ANNEX.
The principal object the authorities had in adding
this Annex was to furnish places where the Minims
could spend their recreation hours when the weather is
too inclement to permit them to be outdoors. On this
account much attention was given to the furnishing of
THE GYMNASIUM.
a room sixty-eight feet long and twenty feet wide,
thoroughly equipped with every apparatus which
might be used to advantage by the Minims. In it are
to be found running ladders, rings, punching bags, hor-
izontal and parallel bars, turning poles, climbing poles
and ladders, Swiss ladders, dumb-bells, clubs, weights,
springboards, mats, horses, pyramid frames, etc. This
apartment is now used merely as a practice room since
the building of the large University gymnasium, as the
boys go there for gymnastic instruction.
VIEW FROM OVER THE LAKE.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
28	ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE PLAY HALL
is a large room one hundred and ten feet long and
thirty feet wide. Here all such games as basket-ball,
indoor base-ball, hand-ball, etc., are played, and here,
in fact, is where the Minims spend many happy hours
when the weather is too severe for outdoor sports.
The hall is also used as a drill room for the Sorin
Cadets.
THE READING ROOM
is thirty feet long and twenty feet wide. This, like the
game room, is tastefully decorated with potted plants
and pictures. It contains a library of many hundred
volumes, especially suited to the age of the pupils. The
books include the best authors in travel, history, biog-
raphy, poetry, and fiction; as well as bound encyclo-
pedias, magazines, papers received from home, etc. The
Reading Room is accessible at all recreation hours.
THE PLAY HALL.
THE READING ROOM.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
31
THE GAME ROOM.
THE GAME ROOM
immediately adjoining the play hall, is eighty feet long
and twenty feet wide. The furniture in this room con-
sists of a piano, couches, rocking chairs, tables, and
trophies won by past athletic teams. It is tastefully
decorated and contains everything in the line of games.
As the boys have free access to these four rooms during
recreation they have ample opportunities of satisfying
their individual tastes.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE ARMORY
contains the rifles and equipments of the Sorin Cadets.
In this room each student has two lockers. One holds
such personal effects as baseball suit, bat, ball, ice and
roller skates; the other, eatables, etc. The bicycles are
also kept in this room.
THE ARMORY.
THE WHEEL BRIGADE.
34
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE CAMPUS.
y^^HE CAMPUS, which is set aside for the exclusive
use of the Minims, is a level eight-acre field, and
is directly north of their play hall. It is located
on the brow of St. Joseph Lake, thus commanding
one of the best views of the many splendid scenes at
Notre Dame. This field is a place of great activity
during those seasons in which outdoor games may be
played. There are several baseball diamonds on which,
during the warm weather in spring and summer, or-
ganized teams battle for championship honors in the
national game and contest for the medals awarded to
the champion nine.
Then there are four gridirons where enthusiastic
foot-ball players develop their muscles in the great col-
lege game. Encircling the field is a track where the
track athletes and bicycle riders do their work. The
campus is also well supplied with swings, May-poles,
turning poles, a tennis court, a large toboggan slide for
the winter, and many other apparatus with which the
Minims may spend their recreation hours in an enjoy-
able manner. That they take advantage of the oppor-
tunities afforded can readily be seen if one makes a
visit to their campus. Homesickness is almost unknown
among the boys. The new students become readily
acquainted with their class-mates and their surround-
ings, and from the first join in the games and sports.
They realize that they are in a new world where they
have more freedom and enjoyment than they could
possibly have at home. Baseball suits, bats, balls, and
masks are furnished gratis.
THE MAIN BUILDING OF THE UNIVERSITY.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
36
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE COURSES OF INSTRUCTION.
)^<HE courses 'of instruction in St. Edward’s Hall
were planned with a view to giving pupils a
broad foundation for commercial studies or for
a University education. They, include Christian doc-
trine and Bible history (for Catholic students), read-
ing, spelling, geography, arithmetic, grammar, pen-
manship, United States history, composition, algebra,
elocution, drawing, music, phonography, typewriting,
physical culture, military drill, Latin, Greek, German,
French and Spanish.
The students of the first-class complete the follow-
ing studies: arithmetic, English, grammar, advanced
geography, spelling, history of the United States, read-
ing and penmanship. They also pursue for two terms
Latin or some modern language and algebra. So thor-
oughly do they master these studies that it has been
invariably found in the examinations held at the end
of the preparatory studies to determine the eligibility
of students for entrance into the college courses that
the students who came from St. Edward’s Hall were
easily superior to the young men who had prepared
themselves in other schools. Thoroughly trained for
every course which they are to follow in their college
life, these ex-Minims take the lead at the entrance ex-
aminations, hold it all through their college career, and
are frequently the young men on whom class honors
fall.
The following program of studies pursued in St.
Edward’s Hall is arranged to conduct pupils through
the essential subjects of grammar grades from the
very beginning of their education.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
37
FIRST YEAR.
Reading. Primer.
Spelling. Oral.
Writing. Daily Practice.
Arithmetic. Oral.
Object Lessons.X
Vocal Music.
SECOND YEAR.
Reading. First and Second Reader, Columbus Ser-
ies. Supplementary reading: Simple stories from his-
tory, myth and fable. Poems read to pupils and se-
lections memorized.
Spelling. Oral and written. Exercises to corre-
spond with words in the Reader. Sentences copied
from dictation.
Arithmetic. Simple addition, subtraction and
multiplication.
Penmanship. Daily practice.
Vocal Music.
THIRD YEAR.
Reading. Second Reader, Third Reader, ColumbiLS
Series. Supplementary reading: Stories from history,
legend and fable. Simple poems memorized.
Spelling. Oral and written. Exercises to corre-
spond with words in the Reader. Dictation. Sentences,
forms of speech.
Arithmetic. Multiplication tables. Multiplica-
tion and simple division of simple numbers.
Penmanship. Daily practice.
Vocal Music.
Elocution. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
38	ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
FOURTH YEAR.
Reading. Fourth Reader, Columbus Series. Sup-
plementary reading: Stories from history. Memorizing
simple poems and short prose passages.
Spelling. Oral and written. Exercises to corre-
spond with words in the Reader. Written definitions of
words. Practical Speller and Definer, to page 63, Ben-
son and Glenn.
Arithmetic. Written and mental. Addition, sub-
traction, multiplication and division of concrete num-
bers. Union Arithmetic, Brooks.
Grammar. Elementary. The parts of speech.
General study.
Geography. Elementary. The World. North and
South America. Redway and Hinman.
History. Elementary. The United States. Mont-
gomery.
Penmanship. Daily practice.
Vocal Music.
Elocution. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
FIFTH YEAR.
Reading. Fifth Reader, Columbus Series. Sup-
plementary reading: Stories from the classics.- Mem-
orizing simple poems and prose passages.
Spelling. Oral and written. Words and defini-
tions. Practical Speller and Definer, pages 63 to 124,
Benson and Glenn.
Arithmetic. Written and mental. Common frac-
tions, decimals, bills. Union Arithmetic, Brooks.
Geography. The United States. Special Study.
Redway and Hinman.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
39
History. The United States. The Indians, the
Explorers, the Colonists. Lawler.
Grammar. A special study of the accidents of the
noun and the adjective. Harvey.
Composition. Writing short stories and descrip-
tions.
Penmanship. Daily practice.
Elocution. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
Vocal Music.
SIXTH YEAR.
Reading. The Sixth Reader, Columbus Series.
Reading and memorizing simple poems from Longfel-
low, Whittier, Holmes and easy passages in prose from
Ruskin and Irving.
Spelling.. Oral and written. Words and defini-
tions. Practical Speller and Definer, pages 124 to 185,
Benson and Glenn. The use of the Dictionary.
Grammar. The accidents of the verb and the ad-
verb, to syntax. Harvey. Letter writing, composition.
Arithmetic. Written and mental. Fractions and
decimals, reviewed. Denominate numbers, practical
measurements, percentage. Normal Union Arithmetic,
Brooks.
Geography. Special study of North America, South
America, Europe, Asia, Africa. Redway and Hinman.
History. The United States. The entire subject
completed. Lawler.
Penmanship. Daily practice.
Elocution. Recitations and declamations once a
week.
Vocal Music.
40
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
SEVENTH YEAR.
Reading. Seventh Reader, Columbus Series. Read-
ing and memorizing Goldsmith’s “Deserted Village,”
Grey’s “Elegy,” passages from Shakespeare’s “Mer-
chant of Venice,” “As You Like It,” “Julius Csesar,”
Lincoln’s “Speech at Gettysburg,” Webster’s speeches,
passages from Newman and Stevenson.
Spelling. Oral and written. Words and defini-
tions. Practical Speller and Definer, page 185 to end,
Benson and Glenn.
Grammar. Syntax. Harvey. Letter writing and
composition.
Arithmetic. Percentage and its applications,
commercial arithmetic. Normal Union Arithmetic,
Brooks.
History. United States. The entire subject re-
viewed and special epochs carefully studied. Lawler.
Penmanship. Daily practice.
Elocution. Declamations and recitations once a
week.
Vocal Music.
Algebra. To Quadratic Equations. Wentworth.
In the Seventh Year of the above program the stu-
dent may choose for study one of the following lan-
guages : Latin, German, French or Spanish, provided
he shall have completed any of the subjects of the sev-
enth year except algebra. As soon as any Grammar
grade study is completed satisfactorily, a High School
subject is begun.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
41
THE COLLEGE THEATRE AND THE ACADEMY OF MUSIC.
42
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
THE COURSES IN MUSIC.
^^^HE department of Music is in the second story
of the building. It consists of a large room for
vocal classes, and several other rooms, each
containing musical instruments for lessons and daily
practice. Instructions on the piano, violin, mandolin,
guitar, flute, cornet and banjo are given by able teach-
ers. Each pupil devotes an hour daily to music, includ-
ing a private lesson of fifteen minutes. To be sure
that the pupils do not waste their time, as they are apt
to do when left to themselves, a Sister is on duty at all
times to see that they practice faithfully. General vocal
lessons are given.
FIRST YEAR.
Violin. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Fiorillo.
Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
Pianoforte. Koehler’s and Domra’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonati-
nas and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reniecke,
Mozart. Jugendalbum and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
SECOND YEAR.
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Son-
atas and pieces by Tartini, Bach,, Beethoven, Mozart.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,
Lecouppy, Cramer, Krause. Octave Studies by Turner.
Bach’s Preludes, Fugues and Inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelssohn,
Schumann, Schubert.
STRINGED INSTRUMENTS.
Excellent opportunities are afforded to those who
desire to acquire a knowledge of other instruments,
Mandolin, Banjo, Guitar, Viola, Flute, Piccolo and Cor-
net.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
4^
EDUCATION.
HE education imparted in St. Edward’s Hall is
practical and thorough. It combines the ad-
vantages of old methods, which long experience
has proven to be beneficial, with the best that modern
notions of education suggest. It is intended to train
the heart as well as the mind, to form young gentle-
men, who will be an honor to their parents and to so-
ciety. Every attention is given to the moral culture of
the students; and their general deportment is equally
the subject of unremitting care. Knowing that the
charm of refined manners is the aggregate of habits
acquired in youth, the teachers do not fail to point out
errors in conduct, to correct faults committed against
gentlemanly deportment. Instruction in politeness and
etiquette are given once a week.
St. Edward’s Hall welcomes to its advantages boys
of every religious denomination; anything like an at-
tempt to force other religious convictions on non-
Catholics is carefully avoided. For the sake of uni-
formity and the preservation of discipline, all the pu-
pils are required, at stated times, to attend divine ser-
vices in the chapel of the Hall. All the boys are taught
to appreciate moral worth. Surrounded as the stu-
dents are by all that tends to ennoble and elevate, it
would seem hardly possible that a boy could spend even
a year at Notre Dame without acquiring a greater love
and respect for all that pertains to a nobler life. '
44
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.
7 p the close of the scholastic year in June, the
A Minims hold their closing exercises in St. Ed-
ward’s Hall. All parents are invited to the
closing exercises. These exercises are attended by the
officials of the University and many of the visitors who
enjoy the entertainment offered by the young students,
and who wish to be present at the distribution of the
prize medals and deportment certificates. Pupils whose
records in class-work and conduct have been exception-
ally satisfactory, or who have excelled in any of the
branches to be mentioned below, are called individually
upon the stage and decorated with the mark of honor
in the form of a gold or silver medal. The complete
list of these medalists and winners of certificates is
published in the Commencement number of the Schol-
astic, the student’s organ. A statement of the condi-
tions under which the principal prizes are awarded
follows:
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.	45
PRIZE MEDALS.
THE ABERCROMBIE MEDAL.
The Abercrombie Gold Medal is awarded to the pu-
pil of St. Edward’s Hall whose conduct during the
year has been marked in the highest degree by qualities
of studiousness, truthfulness, politeness and manliness.
THE SORIN MEDAL.
The Sorin Association Gold Medal is awarded for
excellence in Elocution.
CLASS MEDALS.
Gold Medals are awarded for excellence in Elocu-
tion, Letter Writing, Composition, Penmanship, Chris-
tian Doctrine, Piano and Vocal Music.
A Silver Medal is awarded for the most marked im-
provement in Letter Writing.
DEPORTMENT PRIZES.
Gold Medals for Deportment are awarded to pupils
who have spent two full years in St. Edward’s Hall
and whose deportment during the whole time has been
unexceptionable.
Silver Medals for Deportment are awarded to pu-
pils who have spent two full years in St. Edward’s
Hall and whose deportment has given general satis-
faction.
• Deportment Certificates are awarded to pupils who
have spent one year in St. Edward’s Hall and whose
deportment during the whole time has been unexcep-
tionable.
A PROMISING SQUAD.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
47
DISCIPLINE.
CONTINUED and varied experience in the care
and training of young boys has brought about
the system of discipline now enforced in St. Ed-
ward’s Hall. Certain restrictions must necessarily be
laid upon pupils of their age, and rules of conduct
formulated which they must strictly obey. Yet every
liberty that is compatible with careful training, and
every privilege conformable to their proper develop-
ment, is granted to the Minims. Those in charge re-
alize that childhood is the most impressionable time of
life, and that the effects of early training are lasting.
Therefore it is sought to influence the Minims by such
methods only as will develop in their youthful minds
a love for order and right conduct, a proper respect
for parents and superiors, and a taste for such habits
as will bring them honor in after life. Every care is
taken to see that they are kept from all that would in
the least taint their morals and that they are taught
to strive after such virtues and manly habits as will
make them estimable young men. Here, as in a well
regulated home, recourse is had to kindness rather than
to severity. The Sisters feel that they fill the place of
the absent mother. The discipline is thus more like the
regulation of an orderly home than like the strict man-
dates of a boarding school. To keep the pupils im-
pressed with the love and respect they owe their par-
ents, they are required to write to them at least once
a week.
As an incentive to keeping the rules, an honor sys-
tem has been established. In a conspicuous place in the
Hall a Tablet of Honor is placed, on which are in-
scribed the names of those whose conduct has been
48
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
satisfactory to all the teachers and prefects. There is
great rivalry among the boys to have their names ap-
pear on the Tablet. A gold medal is also awarded at
the end of two full years to those whose deportment
has been exceptionally good. As this fact is made
known to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he
generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to
receiving an Honor. It has been found that such in-
centives as these are far more effectual towards the
development of character than corporal punishment.
This latter method finds little place in St. Edward’s
Hall, for seldom, if ever, is it employed.
The Minims are kept within the line of duty by a
sense of honor and justice rather than by fear of pun-
ishment. Among the many means of promoting emu-
lation are Weekly Notes, Bi-Monthly Bulletins, Annual
Distribution of Premiums and Gold Medals for excel-
lence in studies.
The President of the University frequently visits
St. Edward’s Hall; and once every two montns the pu-
pils are examined by him or by one of his officials to
ascertain the progress they are making in their studies.
The order of the day in St. Edward’s Hall is as fol-
lows : Rising at half-past six, toilet; breakfast at sev-
en, after which a short time is allowed for recreation
and exercise; at half-past seven, studies and classes are
begun and continued without intermission until half-
past nine; from half-past nine until ten, recreation is
given and a luncheon is served. At ten, classes are
again taken up and followed until eleven forty-five,
when fifteen minutes are given to toilet; twelve, dinner,
followed by recreation. From half-past one until three,
study and class; three, recreation and luncheon: froi^
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
49
half-past four until six, study and classes; six, supper,
followed by recreation; eight o’clock, retiring.
From this it may be seen that the day has been ar-
ranged as judiciously as possible towards furthering
mental and physical development at the same time. The
pupils are never at work more than two hours at a
time. This gives them ample opportunity to take such
recreation as boys of their age require, and perhaps
to this is due the fact that they are so healthy and
happy. The recreation and exercise in the fresh air
after each two hours of study unbend the mind and
prepare the boys to return to work with a freshness
and vigor that make very much toward their progress.
NOTRE DAME AVENUE.
FACSIMILE OF THE GROTTO OF LOURDES
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
51
SOCIETIES
HERE are two societies in St. Edward’s Hall,
that of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary,
which has for its object to supply servers for
the Chapel services, and the Sorin Association which
has been established with a view to give the pupils a
start in elocution and debating as early as possible.
The Sorin Association is presided over by one of the
professors, who devotes special attention to training
the young speakers. Meetings are held once a week
after school hours. These meetings are a source of
pleasure as well as of profit to the young enthusiasts.
Not infrequently are they honored at these meetings
by the presence of some of the University officials, who
take pleasure in attending, to encourage the boys and
watch the progress they are making. The mem-
bers prepare original compositions, deliver declama-
tions, are trained to debate, etc. As a further en-
couragement for the young members a gold medal is
annually awarded at Commencement time to the boy
who has done the best work, and who shows his merit
in open contest.
THE SORIN CADETS.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
53
SORIN CADETS.
HE Sorin Cadets are divided into two companies
under the command of an ex-drill instructor of
the United States Army. The companies are
armed with a light carbine rifle weighing less than four
pounds. These rifles and the other equipment are kept
in a room fitted up as an armory. The drill, which
is of a light nature, is practiced twice a week in the
large play hall; but in favorable weather it is conduct-
ed out doors. Great attention is paid at all times to the
setting-up of the boys. An upright and manly bear-
ing is the result of the drills, which are beneficial to
both mind and body. Boys most efficient in drill, who
show an aptitude to command, are selected and pro-
moted to fill the different positions of non-commission-
ed officers. At the close of the scholastic year a gold
medal is awarded to the boy who has the highest num-
ber of points to his credit for proficiency and deport-
ment in military drill.
A TRACK TEAM.
ST. EDWARD'S HALL.
55
ATHLETICS.
>—g* OUNG boys need a great amount of vigorous and
wholesome exercise when they are required to
do much mental work. Study is wearing enough
on any person, but for the youth, who does not directly
see the benefit of it, application to books is doubly tire-
some. He measures greatness more by the standard of
sports than by education and culture. To satisfy his
longings for games, his desire to match his skill and
strength with his fellows, he must be given ample op-
portunity to engage in contests. Thus will his mind
be relieved of the strain that study would naturally
put upon it. It is evident that a suitable amount of
play will sharpen the intellect and render its possessor
much more competent to work in a beneficial manner.
Again play develops a strong constitution, physical
strength, agility of body and confidence in one’s own
ability. This is particularly true of young boys who
are so susceptible of training. Bearing these facts in
A WINNING TEAM.
mind, the authorities of St. Edward’s Hall have made
every possible provision to give the boys sufficient time
for athletics. It must not be inferred, however, that
they are permitted all play and no work. Only during
recreation times can there be any attention given to
the subject of games and athletics, and these are never
allowed to interfere in any way with class work. Every
game is encouraged at its proper time, but when the
hour for study conies all games must be stopped.
Baseball and football are the chief sports among
the Minims. In spring there are as many as eight dif-
ferent nines competing for the championship of the
Hall. The rivalry between these various teams is very
ON THE DIAMOND.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
57
great. Toward the close of the season the two teams
with the best record play a series of five games and to
the winners of this series go the honors. Each member
of the team is presented with a gold medal. In foot-
ball the rivalry is equally as great, except that the
strongest team usually plays most of its games with the
boys from Carroll Hall, and with junior teams from
South Bend.
NECESSARY EXPENSES.
Matriculation Fee (First year only).................$	10.00
Tuition, Board, 'Washing, Mending, Bed and Bedding, etc.,
per School Year.............................. 250.00
Payable in Advance, as follows:
First Payment; On Entrance in September:
Matriculation Fee...................................$	10.00
Board and Tuition................................. 150.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account.............. 5.00
Gymnasium .......................................... 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course.......................... 1.00
Military Suit ...................................... 3.75
Second Payment; On January 15th:
Balance on Board and Tuition......................$100.00
Extras Optional. (Payable in Advance.)
The charge per session of ten months for piano lessons and the
use of instrument, in this School is $50; violin, $50; guitar or
mandolin, $25.
Pupils who remain during the summer vacation (about three
months) are charged $60.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice, if not paid
within ten days after they have been rendered.
CLOTHING.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of under-
wear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handkerchiefs, six pairs of
stockings, six towels, two hats or caps, three pairs of shoes, a pair
of rubbers, three suits of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking
brush, soap, and a hand mirror. This direction concerning cloth-
ing is a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above supplies
can be procured through the Student’s office at the University.
PHYSICAL CULTURE DRILL IN GYMNASIUM.
THE UNIVERSITY GYMNASIUM.
ST. EDWARD’S HAIL.
en
to
EXHIBITION DRILL IN GYMNASIUM.
ST. EDWARD’S HALn.
31
THE ADVANTAGES OF ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
}^HE advantages of having a separate department
at the University for boys under thirteen years
of age are so many and so evident that it would
seem almost unnecessary to mention them. In the first
place, if parents are desirous of having their sons sent
away to school when they are of such tender age, they
must fully realize that special care and attention should
be given to these young boys. However, it would be a
difficult matter to make special provisions for them,
unless they be kept alone and be under the supervision
of prefects and instructors who can devote their whole
time to caring particularly for them. It would be prac-
tically impossible to make any deviation from the ordi-
nary curriculum in order to benefit them if they were
permitted to be among the other boys; for discrimina-
tions in any department, as among men in the world,
always work unsatifactorily.
Again, the intimate association of such young boys
with older ones does not always lead to the best results.
Whatever they notice in their elders they will strive to
imitate; and it too often happens that they notice only
the rougher side of the actions of their companions.
Boys under the age of thirteen years, it must be re-
membered, cannot be expected to use very great dis-
cretion or judgment in shaping their actions, and the
evil influence of one thoughtless person may leave a
lasting impression on their youthful minds. Another
advantage in having the Minims by themselves is this:
their studies, their manner of spending recreation, and
their tastes in general are very different from those of
the more advanced boys. They can do better in class-
work if they follow such lines as are specially planned
6
ST. EDWARD’S HALL.
for them, and they will enjoy their games much better
if they are where they can play them without interfer-
ence from older boys. Life in St. Edward’s Hall is
thus made more home-like for them since the rules and
regulations are especially suited to their best interests.
There are a hundred and one little things that go to
make up their comfort and happiness, that could not
be taken into account if they were not in a separate
department. As has been already stated, the
Sisters of Holy Cross are in charge of St. Edward’s
Hall. They give the most scrupulous attention to the
needs and comforts of the pupils in all that pertains
to studies, health and personal neatness. None better
than they know how to take the place of the mother in
the training, the progress and the happiness of those
under their care.
When placing their sons at Notre Dame, parents
find great satisfaction in seeing that, if they have made
a sacrifice in depriving themselves of the company of
their children, they are leaving them in a beautiful
home surrounded by every care and comfort, and, at
the same time, affording them an opportunity of laying
a deep and solid foundation for an education that will
make towards usefulness and happiness through life.
