SERIES VI»	;	> Published Quarterly- by
NUMBER 1.	The University
OF THE
University of Notre Dame ■
GENERAL CATALOGUE
1909-1910
Entered as Sec6nd*class Matter in the Postoffice at
Notre Dame, Indiana, July 17, 1905.
UNIVERSITY OF N OTR E DAME
Notre Dame, Indiana
Series VI
Number 1
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
^3^
GENERAL CATALOGUE
1909-1910
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
July, 1910
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter
July 17, 1905
2
BULLETIN OF THE
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
L D I D la
5^	.
o y I u
! A . Q ।	. UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	3
K/	■
V > U	CALENDAR FOR 1910-11.
	r $ i y i9io.		
	SEPTEMBER	9, 10. 12. 16, 17. 19. 25.	Entrance Examinations and Examination of Conditioned Students in the Prepara- tory School. Preparatory School Opens. Entrance Examinations and Examinations of Conditioned Students in the Col- leges. Colleges Open. Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls.	•
	OCTOBER	13. 27.	Founder’s Day. No Classes. Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
	NOVEMBER	1. 2, 4. 24.	Feast of all Saints. No Classes. Bi-Monthly Examinations. Thanksgiving Day. No Classes.
	DECEMBER 1911.	6. 8. 10. 20, 21. 22.	President’s Day. No Classes. Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No Classes. The William P. Breen Medal Orations. Bi-Monthly Examinations. Christmas Vacation Begins.
	JANUARY	5. 28, 29.	Classes Resume. Term Examinations.
	FEBRUARY	5. 22.	State Oratorical Contest. Washington’s Birthday. No Classes. Pres- entation of Flag by the Senior Class.
	MARCH	1, 3. 17. 19.	Bi-Monthly Examinations. St. Patrick’s Day. No Classes. St. Josephs Day. No Classes.
	APRIL	16. 17. 26, 28.	Easter. No Easter Vacation. Easter Monday. No Classes. Bi-Monthly Examinations.
	MAY	20. 30.	Latest Date for Handing in Prize Essays and Graduating 'liheses in all the Colleges.	1 Decoration Day. No Closes.
	JUNE	1. 5-8. 7, 8, 9. 8. 10. 11. 12.	j The Patrick T. Barry CMedal Recitations. 1 The Joseph A. Lyons |Medal Recitations. Examination of Candidates for Graduation. Examinations in Preparatory School. Commencement in Preparatory School. Vacation in Preparatory School Begins. Baccalaureate Sermon. Meeting of the Alumni. Commencement. Bachelors’ Orations, 10:00 a. m. Commencement Address and Graduation Exercises, 8:00 p. m.
		13, 14.	Examinations in the Colleges.
4
BULLETIN OF THE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
Chancellor.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.
Secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
Treasurer.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
5
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.
President.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Vice-President.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Director of Studies.
Rev. TIMOTHY R. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Prefect of Discipline. 5
Rev. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C,
Prefect of Religion.
Bro. ALBAN, C. S. C.,
Secretary.
6
BULLETIN OF THE
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Special English.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Special Philosophy.
Rev. TIMOTHY R. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology and Geology.
Rev. JOHN BERNARD SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
Rev. MOSES A. McGARRY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. PATRICK CARROLL, C. S. C.,
Irish History.
Rev. MICHAEL MATTHIAS OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Debating and Oratory.
UNIVERSITY OF 'NOTRE DAME.	7
Rev. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Botany.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,	■
Political Economy and History.
Rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
Sociology and History.	,
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C, ‘
Physics.
Rev. MIECESLAUS SZALEWSKI, C. S. C.,
Polish Language and History. 5
Rev. JOHN TALBOT SMITH, LL. D.,
Lecturer on English Literature.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C., _
Piano.
JAMES FARNHAM EDWARDS, A. M., LL. B.,
Librarian.
. DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
, MARTIN McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.
f
8	BULLETIN OF THE
TIMOTHY EDWARD HOWARD, A. M., LL. D„
Law.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Mechanical Drawing.
JEROME JOSEPH GREEN. M. E. E. E,
Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics and Surveying.
GALLITZIN FARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
Law.
ANDREW ANDERSON,
Law.
SEUMAS MacMANUS,
Lecturer on English Literature.
JAMES HINES, Ph. B,
History.
ARTHUR LUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
ROBERT LEE GREEN, Ph. G,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
'	GEORGE SPIESS, A. B.,
. Elocution.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B., B. S. A.,
Architecture.
FRANCIS WYNNE KERVICK, B. S. in Arch.,
Architecture.
KNOWLES B. SMITH, E. M.,
Mining Engineering.
JOHN WORDEN, B. S,
Freehand Drawing.
Bro. VICTOR, C. S. C.,
Modeling.
. JOHN F. O'HARA,
Spanish.
DOLOR PARENT,
French.
JOHN BERNARD BERTELING, M. D.,
Attending Physician.
WILLIAM BUDD KELLEY,
Shopwork.
'	BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.

10
BULLETIN OF THE
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
REV. JAMES FRENCH, C. S. C.
REV. GEORGE O’CONNOR, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
REV. WALTER LAVIN, C. S. C.
REV. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.
REV. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. Q
CORBY HALL
REV. JOHN FARLEY, C. S. C.
REV. PATRICK DALTON, C. S. C.
REV. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.
WALSH HALL
REV. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.
REV. DAVID O’LEARY, C. S. C.
REV. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.
MR. ALOYSIUS WEISBECKER, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
BRO. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
BRO. HUGH, C. S. C.
BRO. CELESTINE, C. S. C.
BRO. PROSPER, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL	.
BRO. JUST, C. S. C.
BRO. GEORGE, C. S. C.
BRO. MAURITIUS, C. S. C.
BRO. ALOYSIUS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH HALL
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.
BRO. FLORIAN, C. S. C
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
BRO. CAJETAN, C. S. C.
BRO. ANSELM, C. S. C.
BRO. THEODORE, C. S. C.
BRO. BEDE, C. S. C.
DU J ARI EH ALL
BRO. AIDAN, C. S. C.	BRO. JOSEPH, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
11
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The Univerity of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross.
In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legislature of
Indiana gave the University power to grant degrees.
The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lew-
is Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis
Gouesse and their associates and successors in office,
be, and are hereby constituted and declared to be, a
body corporate and politic, by the name and style of
the ‘University of Notre Dame du Lac/ and by that
name shall have perpetual succession, with full power
and authority to confer and grant, or cause to be con-
ferred and granted such degress and diplomas in the
liberal arts and sciences, and in law and medicine, as
are usually conferred and granted in other universities
in the United States, provided, however, that no de-
grees shall be conferred or diplomas granted, except to
students who have acquired the same proficiency in the
liberal arts and sciences, and in law and medicine as is
customary in other universities in the United States-”
12
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height-and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-halls,
some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-rooms
are in this building. The Library and the Bishop’s Me-
morial Hall are also here temporarily. This building,
like all the others of the University, is lighted by elec-
tricity and gas, and heated by steam. The corridors of
the first floor are decorated with mural paintings by
Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
in ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor to
the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.	.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 55,000 volumes and several thou-
sand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The de-
partments of literary criticism, history, political science
and the Greek and Latin classics are well represented.
Special libraries containing reference works on techni-
cal subjects are provided in the Colleges of Engineering
and Science. The College of Law has a complete library
of its own. Ample reading room is provided in the main
library. The best literary magazines and reviews, as
A
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
13
well as current numbers of scientific and technical jour-
nals are kept on file. Students have access to the Li-
brary from 8:00 A. M. to 9 :00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 1'00 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre. The The-
ater is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It will
seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent in public
and professional life are given here. Concerts and plays
by profesional companies are also presented in this the-
ater. The dramatic clubs of the University present five
plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three stories
in height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum containing mineral,
fossil and biological specimens. The departments of
Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering, Phil-
osophy, Botany and Biology have recitation rooms and
laboratories in this building. The equipment for each of
these departments is extensive and complete. Descrip-
tion of the equipment will be found later in this catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological col-
lection on the second floor at present fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
14
BULLETIN OF THE
genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large
collection of representative vertebrate skeletons forms a
considerable part of the museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the
other of Canada. There is also a second collection of
the woods and fruits of the United States, almost com-
plete.
The collection in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a
carefully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large geological col-
lection; some of the specimens here are of the rarest
fossil remains of animal and plant life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. 'The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture rooms. The second floor
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and con-
tains a large, welkequipped laboratory, a modern drug
store, a lecture room and museum, a library for pharma-
ceutical publications, and a general stock room. The
general inorganic, organic and elementary chemical
laboratories are on the third floor. Each laboratory is
provided with ample hood accommodations, and each desk
is furnished with water, gas and suction.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
THE SHOP
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the me-
chanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop and
foundry. The second floor provides the shop for wood
work and also contains a well lighted drawing room
where students in designing may consult complete work-
ings of the best steam engines and pumps to be found on
the market.
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Labora-
tories and is designed for an equatorial telescope and for
a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial telescope
now in the building is intended for students of astron-
omy, and is in use whenever favorable weather per-
mits.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students of
Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of the Col-
leges are not required to pay rent. On the first floor
there is a chapel, a law lecture room and a law library.
The building is lighted with electricity and heated with
steam. In the basement are recreation rooms and bath
rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has three
stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width. There
are 125 private rooms for students, with recreation rooms
and a chapel. The building is lighted with electricity
and gas and heated with steam.
16
BULLETIN OF THE
f
WALSH HALL
This newest dormitory building' is situated South of
Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions are 230
feet by 41 feet. It faces East and all the front rooms
are made up of suites each consisting of a commodious
study room, flanked on either side by a bed-room. At-
tached to each suite is a private bath and toilet. Each
room is supplied with hot and cold water. The rear
rooms are singles and the general toilet and bath rooms
are of hollow, fire-proof tile, walls and ceilings covered
with wire lath and plaster, making practically a fire-proof
building. It is equipped with a distinct system of stand-
pipes for fighting fire. The entire corridor floors are
built of reinforced concrete, covered with Roman ceramic
mosaics. In finish and equipment Walsh Hall is believed
to be the best college dormitory building in America.
It embraces three stories, besides the admirable basement
and attic, and it is capable of accommodating over a hun-
dred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of age
and upwards. There is a common study hall, a common
lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms in which each
student has an alcove curtained to secure a personal
privacy. Experience shows that the discipline of these
common rooms works admirable effects on students who
have not yet contracted solid habits of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Administration
Building. It is in all respects similar to Brownson Hall,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	1/
except that it is intended for younger students. The
regulations are more particularly adapted to their age
and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students be-
tween the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are placed
in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme southwest-
ern end of the campus and is devoted exclusively to liv-
ing and study rooms. In this building live those stu-
dents who defray one-half the cost of board and tuition
by waiting at table during the meals. The conditions
for admission to this hall are: (1) The payment of two
hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the first of August,
and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter. The waiting in
no wise interferes with the student’s work, and all the
educational advantages are open to him. It is to be re-
gretted that through the lack of endowment the Univer-
sity can offer only a limited number of such opportuni-
ties each year. It is necessary to apply early for these
appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for the
use of students during illness. The sick are cared for by
Sisters of Holy Cross, and the University physician vis-
its them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground; it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
18
BULLETIN OF THE
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms and
shower-baths. Friends of the University and the alumni
contributed more than three thousand dollars to the fund
for rebuilding.
Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball dia-
mond and the running track, and a portable stand near
the football rectangle. The field contains ten acres of
ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr. Warren
A. Cartier, C. E., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University, Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall, the
Community House, the Presbytery, and Saint Edward’s
Hall, the last named being a school for children under
the age of thirteen, in care of the Sisters of Holy Cross.
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his own
curriculum conformably to his natural liking, the ca-
reer in life he may have in view, or the determinate in-
tellectual bent developed during his secondary school
years; but, though he is free to elect his own studies, he
has not, however, unlimited freedom in this respect.
The principle of general election is modified. Lest the
young Freshman in his inexperience choose unwisely,
he is aided in making his choice of studies by being
permitted to select from among a number of parallel
programs leading to baccalaureate degrees. Eighteen
programs are open for his choice in the Colleges, each
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
embracing courses which, in the opinion of the Faculty,
contribute best to cultural, scientific or professional
knowledge. These programs are, in some cases, made
elastic by the introduction of elective courses, especially
in the Junior and Senior years. Students who wish to
spend a limited time in study and cannot complete all
the courses in a program for a degree may register as
special students and elect any courses for which their
preparation has fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time re-
quired for preparation of recitations. One hour of reci-
tation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours of la-
boratory work. The minimum number of credit hours
which a student must carry, except in his Senior year
is sixteen, the maximum number which he may ordinar-
ily carry is twenty. Students who wish to take more
work than is indicated by the maximum requirements
must apply by formal petition to the Faculty for the
requisite permission.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO
THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by a
properly attested certifictae, of ability to enter on the
courses of the Freshman year. The specific subjects re-
quired for entrance will be found later in this catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for admis-
sion to the University are held at Notre Dame in Sep-
tember, at the beginning of the Fall Term and in Janu-
ary at the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examinations
in one or more of the subjects required for admission
20
BULLETIN OF THE
to any college program may, at the discretion of the Fac-
ulty, be admitted to his class conditioned, to make up
his deficiency by extra study within one school year. Only
when the conditions are removed will the student be
admitted to full standing in his class.
Graduates of High Schools that are fully accredited
to the State Universities, will be admitted without ex-
amination to the Freshman year of any program to
which their preparatory studies entitle them.
Certificates of work done in public High Schools or
in private Preparatory Schools will not be accepted in-
stead of examinations, unless the applicant has passed
the final examinations after full courses in his school,
and the Faculty of the University are satisfied with the
standing of the school.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing who
are required to take examinations must pass, in addition
to the usual entrance examinations, an examination in the
work already done by the classes they desire to enter.
The additional subjects may be found in the several pro-
grams of studies described later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present certifi-
cates from other colleges or universities may be received
at the discretion of the Faculty with or without examin-
ation as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the Se-
nior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.
DEGREES
Degress are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The

.	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	21
courses required for the several degrees conferred by
the University will be found described later in this cat-
alogue. Written thesis and formal examinations are de-
manded of all candidates for degrees. One full scholas-
tic year of resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs throughout
the four scholastic years. In the College of Arts and
Letters one of three degrees is conferred on an under-
graduate—Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of Letters
(Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.)—dependent
on the special program of studies the candidate selects.
The College of Science offers five degrees for choice to
undergraduates—Bachelor of Science (B. S.), Bachelor
of Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.), Bachelor of Science
in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Graduate in Pharmacy
(Ph. G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.). The
College of Engineering offers five degrees—Civil Engi-
neer (C. E.), Mechanical Engineer (M. E.), Electrical
Engineer (E. E.), Mining Engineer (E. M.), and
Chemical Engineer, (Ch. E.). Two degrees are offered
by the College of Architecture—Bachelor of Science in
Architecture (B. S. A.), and Bachelor of Science in Archi-
tectural Engineering (B. S. A. E.). The College of Law
offers the degree of Bachelor of Laws (LL. B.). In the
College of Music one degree is offered—Bachelor of Mu-
sic (B. M.). In order to obtain this degree the candi-
date must have studied music in the University for one
complete year. He must have a thorough theoretical
knowledge of four instruments mentioned in the courses
described later, and a practical mastery of one of them.
He shall pass a written examination in harmony, counter-
22
BULLETIN OE THE
point and composition, and he must submit to the exam-
iner two original compositions: (a) a fugue for full or-
chestra, or for four voices with independent orchestral
accompaniment: (b) a composition in the free form (so-
nata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a trio (pianoforte, violin
and violincello).
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one com-
plete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS	>
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who make
application to the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study for the privilege of pursuing advanced work. All
work must be approved by this Committee. One year
of residence, at least, is required of candidates who have
received their Bachelor's degrees at another college.
Those who have received their Bachelor’s degree from
Notre Dame, may, in some cases to be determined by
the Committee, obtain the Master’s degree for work
done in absentia.* One major and one or two minor courses
will constitute the curriculum, forming a consistent, co-
ordinated plan of advanced work pursued with some defi-
nite aim. On completion of the required work the can-
didate must pass a satisfactory examination in writing,
under the professors who give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a disser-
tation of notable merit on some topic connected with his
major subject, the thesis to contain in the minimum five
thousand words. The subject of the thesis must be an-
------------- • .
* No degree is conferred in honorem except the degree of doctor of
Laws (LL,D.).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	23
nounced to the Committee by December 1, and submit-
ted for examination by May 15. Five printed or type-
written copies of the thesis must be presented to the
University to be placed in the library. The fee for
examination of work done in absentiaois twenty-five dollars.
The fee for this degree is fixed at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Univer-
sity work before the degree of Doctor shall be conferred,
—two of these years must be spent at Notre Dame and
one may be passed at some other university on approval
of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate Study.
The candidate must pass satisfactorily examinations in
French and German on entrance. The work for the de-
gree shall consist of one major and two minor courses of
instruction approved by the Committee. Research study
shall form the most important part of the candidate’s
work. On completion of his work the candidate must
pass minute examinations on the three subjects of his
curriculum and must defend his dissertation before the
whole Faculty. The thesis must be printed and one
hundred and fifty copies presented to the University. A
copy of the thesis must be handed to the Committee one
month before the examinations. The degree will not be
conferred for merely faithful work, and not for miscellan-
eous study, but for original research and for high attain-
ment in one branch of study. The fee for this degree is
fixed at twenty-five dollars'.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates for
a degree by following the prescribed courses of any pro-
gram may register as special students and attend any of
24
BULLETIN OF THE
the courses of instruction for which their previous aca-
demic training has fitted them. Such special students are
governed by the same regulations and discipline as the
other undergraduates. They are required to pass the
same examinations in the courses they pursue as the
o+her students. In exceptional cases men of mature age,
who have been out of school or college for several years,
but whose training in practical affairs have been sufficient-
ly educative, will be accepted as special students by satis-
fying the Faculty of their ability to pursue with profit
any course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may receive
on application certificates stating their proficiency in the
courses they have pursued.	-
SCHOLARSHIPS
Th 3 University has at present only four foundations
which yield revenues for the support and tuition of four
students annually. Assignment of these scholarships is
made under restrictions indicated with each gift. No
student will be continued in the enjoyment of a scholar-
ship whose superiority in college work is not clearly in-
dicated in his first year of residence. Nor will a student
who has incurred serious censure by breach of the regu-
lations of the University be considered again as a candi-
date for a scholarship.
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of endow-
ment makes it impossible for the University to give place
to a greater number of deserving students who are not
able to pay the charges of board and tuition. Under
conditions indicated on page 17 of this catalogue a lim-
ited number of deserving student-waiters can be received
at reduced rates. Certain clerkships in the University
offices and positions in the libraries are also open to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	25
worthy students. Information regarding the assignment
of these places will be furnished by the President. The
University is doing all in its power to assist students in
narrow circumstances. The friends of Notre Dame are
asked to assist in this work.
THE JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Edward Johnson, of Watertown, Wiscon-
sin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the income of
which aids in the support of one student annually. By
the terms of the gift assignment is made only to a student
who intends to enter the priesthood.
THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
The Reverend Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Pennsyl-
vania, bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899. The
terms of the bequest specify that the income shall be
used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Ford, of Chicago, gave to
the University certain properties for the maintenance of
worthy students. The income arising from this gift now
supports fully two students annually. By the wish of the
donor nominations for these scholarships are made from
St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.
PRIZES
The following prizes and honors within the gift of the
University are awarded annually under conditions
named below. Any of these prizes may be withheld by
the Faculty if the student incur serious censure for vio-
lating any of the regulations of the University.
26
BULLETIN OF THE
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who has
obtained the best record in the Senior year of the Clas-
sical Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. William
J. Quan, of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition
that the record of the student is notably good in all the
courses of instruction prescribed for the Senior year.
THE MASON MEDAL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of Chi-
cago, is awarded each year to the student of the Prepara-
tory School whose scholastic record is superior to that of
his fellows. Observance of the University regulations
counts in the award. The prize may be withheld if in the
opinion of the Faculty the record of the student has not
reached a high standard.
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of
Covington, Ky., is awarded every year to the Senior
(under-graduate) who presents the best dissertation in
English. Essays offered in competition may be on any
subject approved by the head of the Department of Eng-
lish. Those offered for graduation may be presented in
competition. The faculty will not award the prize, if, in
the opinion of the judges selected, the best essay is not
notably meritorious.
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded to
the student who excels in oratory. The award is made
by a committee of three selected by the faculty and after
a public competition. The winner represents the Univer-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
sity in the Indiana State Oratorical Contest held the first
Friday in every February. No student may receive the
Breen Medal more than once, but the winner of this prize
may compete again for the honor of representing the
University in the State Contest.
There is also a ten-dollar prize offered for the winners
of the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Preparatory
contests in oratory.
ELLSWORTH C. HUGHES MEDAL FOR
CIVIL ENGINEERING
A- gold medal presented every year by Mr. A. S.
Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, in memory of his son,
who was a member of the Sophomore Class in 1889, is
awarded to the student of the Department of Civil En-
gineering who has obtained the best record in all the
courses prescribed in the program. The medal is award-
ed only when the student’s record has attained a fixed
standard. In computing the grade the courses in mathe-
matics count fifty per cent. Only students who have
been in residence for four full years are eligible to com-
pete for this prize.
THiE MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Lyons Medal and
the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every year for
excellence in elocution. The award is made after compe-
tition in public. In order to be eligible to compete, stu-
dents must have followed at least two of the courses of
instruction in public speaking. One of the medals was
founded in memory of Professor Joseph A. Lyons, of the
Class of ’62, who served the University as Professor of
Elocution and Oratory from 1872 to 1888. The other is
a gift of Mr. Patrick T. Barry, of Chicago.
28
BULLETIN OF THE
THE PRIZE FOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to three stu-
dents who, in the opinion of a committee of judges from
without the Faculty, excel in debating. The award is
made after a competition in public. The prize is divided,
thirty dollars going to the student who receives the high-
est marks, twenty-five dollars to the second, and twenty
dollars to the third. The three students who are success-
ful in the competition ordinarily represent the University
in the principal inter-collegiate debate of the year.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing will
be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintains that an education which gives
little attention to the development of the moral part of
a youth’s character is pernicious, and that it is impos-
sible to bring about this development where students
are granted absolute relaxation from all Faculty govern-
ment while outside the class-room. A young man must
learn obedience to law by the actual practice of obedi-
ence. Here students are required to obtain permission
for any departure from the regular daily routine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are enforced at the University.
1.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term time, except in cases of urgent neces-
sity. There is no vacation at Easter.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	29
3.	Students are required to report at the University
immediately after arriving at South Bend. This rule is
binding not only at the beginning of the scholastic year,
but at all other times when leave of absence has been
granted. Unnecessary delay in South Bend is looked
upon as a serious violation of rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating in ex-
aminations, the use of intoxicating liquors, immorality,
the use of profane and obscene language, and an unau-
thorized absence from the University limits are among
the causes for expulsion. In case of suspension or expul-
sion for such offenses, no fees shall be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or discon-
tinued without the consent of the Director of Studies.
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brownson,
Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age; boys sev-
enteen years of age or older are placed in Brownson
Hall; those over thirteen and under seventeen, in Car-
roll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St. Edward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such stu-
dents of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls as
have received from their parents written permission to
use tobacco.
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin, Corby
or Walsh Halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
Catholic institution, and all students are required to at-
tend divine service in the University Church at stated
times.
10.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense of
study will not be permitted; but students are expected
to take part in outdoor sports.
11.	A limited number of athletic contests is permitted
with college organizations from without.
30
BULLETIN OF THE
12.	All athletic associations of the students are strict-
ly forbidden to countenance anything that savors of
professionalism.
13.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members of the
Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve the right
of a final decision on all questions concerning athletics.
The Faculty Board will determine the amateur stand-
ing of the members of the athletic teams and aportion
the finances. By this means indiscreet and unconsidered
action of students will be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS.
Each winter, eminent men are invited to lecture be-
fore the students. Among those who have addressed
the University in the past few years may be noted
four Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli and Martinelli,
and Monsignor Falconio and Agius; Archbishops Ire-
land, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and Christie, and Bishops
Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid, Muldoon, O’Gorman and
Shanley. There were also such noted European church-
men as the Abbe Felix Klein, Monsignor John S. Canon
Vaughan and the foremost of living English historians,
Dom Gasquet; also men of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford,
Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van
Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats, James
Jeffrey Roche, Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read, Le-
land Powers, Henry James and the Rev. John Talbot
Smith; and such men of affairs as President Taft, ex-Vice-
President Fairbanks, ex- Senator Hill, Senator Beveridge,
ex-Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, ex-Rep-
resentative J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William P.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	31
Breen, Representative Bourke Cochran, Dr. James C.
Monaghan, Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward
McDermott and His Excellency Wu Ting Fang.
Concerts are given frequently by organizations from
without.
During the year 1909-T0 the University offered a course
of public lectures and concerts in Washington Hall, in
addition to the regular and special lectures required by
the courses of instruction. The course was as follows:
	DRAMATICS
OCTOBER 13.	(Founder’s Day)—“The Rising of the Moon.”— University Dramatic Club.
DECEMBER 14.	(President’s Day)—“The College Toastmaster.” —University Dramatic Club.
MARCH	17. 28. APRIL	5.'	“The Prince and the Pauper.”—Philopatrians. “A Pair of Spectacles.”'—Senior Class. “The Postscript,” “A Marriage.”—Donald Rob- bertson Players. CONCERTS
NOVEMBER 1. 9. 16. 20. DECEMBER 7.	Cambrian National Glee Singers. Victor’s Royal Venetian Band. Italian Boys. Gamble Concert Company. Jubilee Singers. LECTURES
SEPTEMBER 23.	“Honesty the Great Element in Success.”—Hon. Theodore Bell, California.
30.	“Opportunity.”—Hon. Albert J. Beveridge, In- diana, United States Senator.
OCTOBER	7.	“Science in Italy in the Time of Columbus.”— '	Prof. James J. Walsh, Ph.D., M.D., New York City.
26.	“The Gospel of Good Cheer.”—Hon. Robert
*	Taylor, Tennessee, United States Sen- tor.
27.	“Egypt, the Gift of the Nile.”—Prof. Edgar J. Banks, Chicago, Ill.
32
BULLETIN OF THE
	28.	“Palestine.”—Prof. Edgar J.’ Banks, Chicago, Ill.
NOVEMBER	3.	“Our Government.”—Prof. Jas. C. Monaghan, Ph.D., New York City.
	18.	“Safeguarding Our Native Game.”—G. 0. Shields, President League of Ameri- can Sportsmen.
	29.	“The Sign of the Cross. ’—James Francis O’Donnell (Reading).
DECEMBER	8.	“British Cartoonists.”—Prof. French, Art In- stitute, Chicago, Ill.
JANUARY	13.	“The Place of Religion in Good Government.”— Max Pam, Chicago, Ill.
	22.	“Alexander Hamilton.”—Judge McCrea, In- dianapolis, Ind.
FEBRUARY	5.	“Clean Living.”—J. Ryan Devereux, M. D., Baltimore, Md.
	7.	“The Story of a Singular Life.”—Adrian New- ens (Reading).
	8.	“Ireland and Irish Scenery.” (Stereopticon)— Seumas MacManus, Dublin, Ireland.
	10.	“Athletic Training and Dislocations.”—C. E. Hillard, M. D., Philadelphia, Pa.
	19.	(Impersonations)—Robert 0. Bowman.
	21.	“Denmark and Her People.”—Hon. Maurice Francis Egan, Minister to Denmark.
MARCH	4.	“Hamlet.”—Frederick Ward (Reading).
	9.	“Henry V.”—Sidney Woolett (Reading).
	19.	“Some Poems and Stories.”—T. A. Daily (Reading).
	29.	“The Rich Poor.”—John Louis Corley, LL.B., St. Louis, Mo.
APRIL	30.	“War Poems and Soldier Stories.”—Fred Em- erson Brooks (Reading).
MAY	2, 9.	“How the Guilds in the Thirteenth Century Solved the Social Problems.”—Dr. Walsh, New York City.
	12.	“How the Other Half Lives.”—Mr. C. Oliver (Stereopticon).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
33
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies in the
University which do such creditable work at their meet-
ings and in preparation for them that their work takes
on the nature of added courses of instruction. In each
society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser. An
Inter-Hall League has been formed and public debates
are held annually. The College of Law also has
an active debating club. The training in public speak-
ing has always received special attention at the
University. In sixteen public debates with other uni-
versities and colleges Notre Dame has but once met de-
feat—the decision of the judges in the greater number
of these debates being unanimous. The University Dra-
matic Club and the Philopatrian Society stage at least
three plays annually for presentation in public. The
University Band, the University Orchestra and the Uni-
versity Glee Club also appear regularly in concerts.
Students of the Department of Civil and Electrical
Engineering have each a society in which papers on
engineering subjects are read and discussed. Men promi-
nent in their profession are invited to lecture to these
societies. The Pharmaceutical Society meets to discuss
subjects of interest in the world of pharmacy. In other
departments where no such formal organization has been
effected similar results are reached by seminars.
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).$10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linen, per school year...................'... 400.00
34
BULLETIN OF THE
PAYABLE ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)................$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition....................... 250.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to all in-
tercollegiate games and contests throughout the year.... 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course.......... 5.00
Spending money or orders for clothing will not be given students
unless a deposit has been made for this purpose.
In this First Payment must also be included any Extra Expense
the student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room
or Special Courses (listed below).
PAYABLE ON JANUARY 15
Balance on Board and Tuition.....................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account for
the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time of absence at the opening of
the Terms, September and January. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the Scho-
lastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or part if the stu-
dent be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice; and
so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself from
the University at any time or for any cause without proper permis-
sion. However, an exception is made if it seems to be expedient for
him to go to his home because of severe or protracted illness. De-
grees will not be conferred on any student whose account with the
University has not been settled.
OPTIONAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE
For the Scholastic Year:
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free, but a nom-
inal charge of $15.00 is made to defray expenses con-
nected with the care of rooms; Freshmen.. .$50.00 and upwards
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made only
to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions; that
is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the Preparatory
and Freshman work, otherwise regular rent will be charged for
rooms. Similarly, only unconditioned Freshmen are allowed the
special rate quoted above.
Preparatory Students
$80.00 and upwards
While students as a rule, are advised to coniine themselves to the
regular courses of the programs they have entered, any of the fol-
lowing may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year,
payable in advance. The charges are pro rata for any portion of
the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons on
Piano and use of Instru-
ment ................$60.00
Use of Piano for Ad-
vanced Students.......30.00
Telegraphy............. 25.00
Typewriting—Full Course. 20.00
One month............. 5.00
Phonography ............  15.00
Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
Cornet, Clarinet or Man-
dolin ............... 30.00
Laboratroy fees listed
Lessons on Violin........ 60.00
*Use of each instrument.. 5.00
Vocal Culture............. 75.00
Elocution—Special Course. 10.00
“Scholastic”—College Pa-
per ..................... 1.50
Artistic Drawing.......... 35.00
Library Fee............... 5.00
Physical Culture ......... 5.00
later in this catalogue.
GRADUATION FEE
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00; Commercial
Course, $5.00.	-
REMARKS
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
* As the string and band instruments available for rent are few, students
taking up these studies are advised to furnish their own instruments.
36
BULLETIN OF THE
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed dur-
ing the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend their
Summer Vacation under the care of the University authorities can
be accommodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jose Park is $100.00. Classes
{two hours per day) are included in this arrangement. Special
tutoring at professors9 rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at reduced
rates. For conditions of entrance see paragraph entitled St.
Joseph’s Hall, page 17.	,
&
COLLEGE
OF
ARTS AND LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
DEPARTMENT OF LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY and ECONOMICS
38
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
establishment of the College of Science in 1865, only
one program of prescribed courses of instruction lead-
ing to a degree was offered to undergraduate students.
It embraced studies in the ancient and modern languages,
in English literature, in history, the natural sciences and
in mathematics. Graduate students might obtain a de-
gree of Master by advanced study one year after obtain-
ing the Bachelor’s degree. The group of courses was
known as the Program of Classics, and the degrees of
Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of election
in courses led the University in 1886 and again in 1898
to form other programs which embraced certain studies
not contained in the Program of Classics, but which lead
to -degrees equivalent to the degree of Bachelor of Arts.
In the matter of election of courses the student is per-
mitted greater freedom in the program leading to the de-
gree of Bachelor of Letters than in either of the other
groups. The degrees now under charge of the College
of Arts and Letters are the ordinary degrees of Bachelor
of Arts, Bachelor of Letters, Bachelor of Philosophy and
Master of Arts.	-
The location of the University offers special advan-
tages of study. It is situated on a beautiful tract where
cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the noisy
bustle of city life. This removal from the distractions
of the town gives the students opportunity to pursue
their work with the quiet and concentration needed for
earnest study. Nearly all the Faculty live on the grounds
of the University, dine with the students, and are access-
ible to them at any time. The benefits derived from this
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
39
constant association with professors can not be overesti-
mated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and labor-
atories. The main library has fifty-five thousand bound
volumes well selected and several thousand pamphlets
and manuscripts. The leading literary and scientific re-
views are kept on file. Books may be borrowed under
easy regulations. The library contains ample reading
room space and is well lighted so that students may use
it at night. It is open every day from 8 :00 o’clock A. M. to
9 :00 P. M. There are also special collections of books
in the various departments of the College, mainly works
of reference. Under certain conditions the city library
of South Bend is open to use by students of the Univer-
sity	’	' '
The department of experimental psychology occupies
a suite of three rooms on the ground floor of Science
Hall. The use of’ a dark room and a silent room may
also be had when need requires. The students have
access to the laboratory at all hours of the day and up
to ten o’clock at night. The equipment includes appa-
ratus and material sufficient for repeating all the exer-
cises in Sanford’s Manual, and most of the exercises in
Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Volume I. The
laboratory is supplied with hot and cold water, gas and
electricity. At the beginning of the course, the aim is
to give students a wide acquaintance with such familiar
apparatus as the chronoscope, kymograph, plethysmo-
graph, automatograph, primeter, campimeter, tone variator,
Galton whistle, Galton bar, etc. For the study of special
perception, there is a set of stereoscopes, pseudoscopes, and
accompanying slides. Provision is also made for the in-
vestigation of pressure, temperature, pain, taste, smell, and
muscular sensations. Experiments in the field of auditory
40
BULLETIN 0E THE
perception are facilitated by three sets of organ pipes, a
set of Koenig’s movable tuning forks and resonators, and
various kinds of metronomes. For the study of physiolo-
gical psychology, a complete set of models of the nervous
system is at hand, together with microscopic slides of the
various parts of the brain and spinal cord.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon the text-books and required read-
ings in the preparatory courses in English; the remainder,
for writing an essay.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of the
Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Catiline; Vergil,
Aeneid, six books; translations at sight of passages from
Cicero and Caesar; translations of English into Latin based
on the text of the authors.
Greek. (For students in the Department of Classics
only) Grammar, etymology and general rules of syntax;
Xenophon, Anabasis, four books; Homer, at least three
books; prose composition based on text.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of Greek
and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern History,
as set out in the texts used in high schools and other sec-
ondary schools.
Civil Government. The Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logaritms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometery. Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
41
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-book or
an equivalent treatise.
Zoology. . Elementary.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equivalent
text.
Botany. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The pre-
paration in this subject must include a course of lectures and
recitations, and laboratory work in which at least fifty ex-
periments have been exemplified.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation in this subject
should include a course of lectures illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is required. Ap-
plicants may present either chemistry or physics provided
either subject has occupied one whole year with five periods
a week. In both chemistry and physics the laboratory note-
books must be presented.
French and German. A three years’ study of either
German or French and one year of French or German is
required for entrance on the Program in Letters and the
Program in History and Economics. Applicants for the
Program of Classics present a year of French or German.
The entrance examination requires sight translation of
ordinary German or French prose: an ability to translate,
rather than accurate grammatical knowledge is expected.
42
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin	4	158	I	Latin	4	158	II
Greek	4	152	I	Greek	4	152	II
English	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
History	4	155	I	History	4	155	I
Elocution	1	146	III	Elocution	1	146	IV
Elocution	1	147	VIII	Elocution	1	147	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Latin	4	158	III
Greek	4	152	III
Philosophy	4	176	I
English	3	148	II
Elocution	1	147	VIII
Latin	4	159	IV
Greek	4	153	IV
Philosophy	4	176	I
English	3	148	II
Elocution	1	147	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Latin	4	159	V	Latin	4	159	VI
Greek	4	153	V	Greek	4	153	VI
Philosophy	4	176	II	Philosophy	4	176	II
English	3	148	III	English	3	148	III
Elocution	1	147	VI	Elocution	1	147	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Latin	4	169	VII	Latin	4	160	VIII
Greek	4	154	VII	Greek	4	154	VIII
Philosophy	4	177	HI	Philosophy	4	177	III
English	3	, 149	IV	English	3	149	IV
Elocution	1	147	VII	Elocution	3	147	VII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF LETTERS.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	'Hrs. Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
Latin or	4	158	I	Latin or	4	158	II
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	184	II	French or	5	184	II
German	5	152	II	German	5	152	II
History	4	155	I	History	4	155	I
Elocution	1	146	III	Elocution	1	146	IV
Elocution	1	147	VIII	Elocution	1	147	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Philosophy	4	176	I	Philosophy	4	176	I
Latin or	4	158	HI	Latin or	4	159	IV
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	185	HI	French or	5	185	HI
German	5	152	HI	German	5	152	III
History	3	156	Ila	History	3	156	Ha
Elocution	1	147	VIII	Elocution	1	147	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	148	HI	i English	3	148	III
Latin or	4	159	V	; Latin or	4	159	VI
Elective	5			• Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	176	II	i Philosophy	4	176	II
History	4	156	III	! History	4	156	III
Elocution	1	147	VI	Elocution	1	147	VI
SENIOR YEAR
English	3	149	IV	English	3	149	IV
Latin or	4	160	VII	Latin or	4	160	VIII
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	177	III	Philosophy	4	174	HI
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Elocution	1	147	VII	Elocution	1	147	VII
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History	4	155	I	History	4	155	I
English	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
French or	5	184	II	French or	5	184	II
German	5	152	II	. German	5	152	II
Polit. Science	4	181	I	; Polit. Science	4	181	I
Elocution	1	146	III	Elocution	1	146	IV
Elocution	1	147	VIII	Elocution	1	147	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
History	3	156	Ha	History	3	156	Ha
Polit. Science	4	182	II	Polit. Science	4	182	Illa
Philosophy	4	176	I	Philosophy	4	176	I
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
German or	4	152	III	German or	4	152	HI
French	4	185	HI	French	4	185	III
Elocution	1	147	VIII	Elocution	1	147	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
History	4	156	Hb	History	4	156	IVa
Polit. Science	4	182	HIb	Polit. Science	4	182	IV
Philosophy	4	176	II	Philosophy	4	176	II
History	4	153	III	History	4	156	III
Elocution	1	147	VI	Elocution	1	147	VI
SENIOR YEAR
History	3	157	IVb	History	3	157	IVb
Political	4	183	V,VI	Political	4	183	VIII
Science	2	183	VII	Science	2	183	VII
Philosophy	4	177	HI	Philosophy	4	177	III
English	3	148	III	English	3	148	HI
Elocution	1	147	VII	Elocution	1	147	VII
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
. DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
46
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The College of Science was established as a distinct
department of the University in 1865. The curriculum
of the student was largely elective for the three succeed-
ing years, but in 1867 there was formed the group of
prescribed courses now known as the Program of Gen-
eral Science. Five programs are now offered to under-
graduate students. The degrees under charge of the
Faculty in this college are the ordinary degrees of Bach-
elor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Biology, Bachelor
of Science in Chemistry, Graduate in Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Chemist. The Master’s degree is con-
ferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Biology occupies the second floor
of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture rooms
and laboratories well ventilated and lighted. There are
also private laboratories set apart for graduate students.
The lecture rooms are furnished with charts and models
necessary in teaching the different courses. The arrange-
ment of windows is such that the rooms can be easily
darkened so that stereopticon and lantern slides on the
subject of botany, zoology and physiology may be used.
The laboratories are equipped with compound and dis-
secting microscopes. In each room there is a library of
works of reference pertaining to biological subjects. The
general laboratory of microscopy, histology and embry-
ology is supplied with compound microscopes and the
equipments indispensable in these courses. The zoologi-
cal collection fills sixteen large cases and represents typi-
cal forms of all the orders and genera of vetebrgte and
invertebrate animals. '
For work in anatomy, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	47
the human body, which can be taken apart for close
study. Besides there are several mounted and unmount-
ed human skeletons. Students pursuing courses in hu-
man anatomy at the University study under a practicing
surgeon and have the privilege of attending surgical
clinics in the new St. Joseph Hospital of South Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough and
careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the others is
a laboratory of photo-micography which contains a per-
fect photo-micographic instrument with a complete set
of accessory apparatus for experimentation, photograph-
ing microscopic objects, making lantern slides, etc. A
large and fully equipped dark room adjoins this labora-
tory.
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORY	‘
The Botanical Laboratory occupies the northwest end
of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly well
adapted to microscopical and histological work. The
department is supplied with the usual requisites of a
working laboratory such as compound microscopes and
accompaniments for each student, the utensils and appa-
ratus necessary for embedding by the paraffin, celoiden,
soap methods, and mounting of preparations by the bal-
sam, Venetian turpentine and glycerine methods. There
are besides, microtomes, camera lucida, micrometers and
aquaria for plant cultures so that the typical algae and
fungi may be had alive for laboratory use in all stages
of development throughout the year. Special devices for
the regulating and modifying of artificial light are at
hand enabling the student to work on dark as well as
clear days. Advanced students are supplied with Abbe
condenser and oil immersion lenses. The laboratory is
48
BULLETIN OF THE
well stocked with histological material, and nearly all
the tynes of common plant families of the phanerogamia
and cryptogamia are preserved after proper fixing. The
material for demonstration of the fresh water algae is
particularly good and abundant. The supply of material
in Venetian turpentine and glycerine is valuable, as it
supplies permanent mounts in a few minutes work.
There are also hundreds of specimens of rare and com-
mon types in paraffin. A herbarium containing over five
thousand species of flowering plants supplies the needs
of the classes in systematic botany. The collection in-
cludes plants from all parts of the United States and
Canada,—the Pacific coast and the Southern States are
especially well represented. Besides these there is a
large collection of fungi, marine algae, mosses, a large
collection of several hundred species of myxomyctes from
the Eastern and Central States, also nearly a thousand
specimens of lichens from all parts of the United States
and Europe. The latter herbarium is well stocked with
the local flora, and special facilities are on hand for the
study of the compositae. In the museum are found
specimens of American and tropical woods and fruits.
The laboratory for more advanced work accommodates
about twenty-five sudents. It is supplied with eight
working tables covered with plate glass or soapstone,
and each place is supplied with lock and key. The lec-
ture room in botany is on the second floor of the build-
ing* and has a seating capacity of seventy-five.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated in the
southeastern part of the grounds and is a large three-
story structure devoted entirely to chemistry. On the
third floor are a small stock room and the two labora-
tories for general and industrial chemistry, one capable
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
49
of accommodating one hundred and fifty students, the
other seventy. The desks are all supplied with gas, wa-
ter, suction and the necessary reagents. On the side
tables are general stock and general apparatus, and con-
veniently placed are small stands for suction and blast
lamps supplied with gas, air blast, acetylene. On the
third floor also is the large fan used for drawing gases
from the hoods, with which all the laboratories are sup-
plied. On the middle floor are the main stock rooms
where supplies can be obtained by the students. Here
also are the laboratories, lecture-room, drug store, library
and museum of the Department of Pharmacy. On the
first floor are the laboratories for qualitative and quan-
titative analysis with desks to accommodate sixty-five
students, and fitted with gas, suction, water and blast.
Large hood accommodations are available and can be
utilized to advantage because of the perfect ventilation
produced by the large fans on the top floor. Two small
side tables are equipped with air blast, ordinary gas and
acetylene. To the east of these laboratories are those
for physical and electro-chemistry and special work such
as food analysis, iron and steel analysis, gas analysis,
etc. The equipment in these laboratories is quite com-
plete. Adjoining these laboratories is a small dark room
for spectroscopic and polariscopic analysis. A large lec-
ture room to accommodate a hundred and ten students is
in the south end of the first floor. It is provided with ap-
paratus for stereopticon illustrations, storage batteries,
cylinders of oxygen, hydrogen, carbon dioxide and a com-
plete set of charts illustrative of the processes employed
in modern chemical ■ industries. Two laboratories ad-
join, one for general’organic analysis, the other for spe-
cial advanced woyk. Two wings extend from the main
building,—one contains the vacuum and pressure tanks,
the acetylene and gasoline gas generators, the other the
BULLETIN OF THE
balance rooms, in which are the analytical and assay
balances sensitive to the one ten-thousandth of a
gramme, and the library of the Department. The library
contains besides the works of reference on chemistry,
the principal chemical journals on file—Berichte, Zentral-
blatt, the Chemical News, the Journal of the American
Chemical Society, the Journal of the British Chemical So-
ciety, the Journal of Chemical Engineering, the Journal of
Chemical Industries, etc. In the large hallway are cases
containing a steadily increasing collection of minerals,
chemicals, and chemicotechnical products of various
kinds, designed as ilustrations of the substances and pro-
cesses discussed in the lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are in a
wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas and fuel
furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead ores, and also
tables for blow pipe analysis. A large collection of min-
erals and ores serves to illustrate the processes.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The Department of Physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science Hall
and three laboratories in the basement. The lecture room
will accommodate seventy-five students. For the work
in mechanics there is the force table, inclined planes,
Geneva cathetometer, capable of measuring to one twen-
ty-five thousandth of an inch, a large physical balance,
standard kilogram, a standard metre, a dividing engine
made by the Geneva society, an Atwood’s machine, a
compound pendulum, a break circuit recording chrono-
graph, a powerful hydraulic press with attachments, ro-
tary air pumps and receivers, a large clock with electri-
cal contact pieces, several self-winding clocks, mercury
barometers and two aneroid barometer^.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
51
For the work in acoustics there are a Mercadier radio-
phone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electrically
operated tuning forks by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig phon-
autograph, an Edison phonograph of earliest type, sev-
eral sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a large dou-
ble siren, a set of very small tuning forks producing the
highest audibly sounds, a set of resonators mounted to-
gether with capsules for sensitive flames arranged for the
analysis of complex sounds, a set of Koenig’s movable
tuning forks to draw compound curves on smoked glass,
three sets of organ pipes, four sets of fine tuning forks, a
set of apparatus for manometric observation of sound
phenomena, a large tuning fork producing the lowest au-
dible sound, an electrical metronome, a set of mounted
tuning forks carrying small mirrors arranged to perform
Lissajou’s experiment, producing complex curves.
For the work in light there are a complete set of appa-
ratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the wave
lengths of light by various interference methods, a set of
polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spherical mir-
rors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a polarization
saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for gas or elec-
tric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large Nicol’s prisms
mounted, a large compound prism to form widely dis-
persed spectrum, two Rowland gratings 14,000 lines to
the inch, a set of photographs of solar spectrum by Row-
land, several cameras with lenses and attachments, a
well-equipped dark-room for photographic work, and a
photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
thermometers, air thermometers, a steam engine indica-
tor, several calorimeters,, apparatus for determining the
52
BULLETIN OF THE
coefficient of linear expansion using the optical lever
method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
absolute electrometer, a Holz machine and apparatus for
illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-me-
ters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of the
modern machine from the early forms of the reciprocat-
ing type, ten galvonometers of various types, a complete
X-ray outfit, sets of apparatus for wireless telegraphy.
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Candidates for the Freshman Class of the four-year
programs must be prepared to pass an examination in
the branches named below unless satisfactory assurance
of proficiency is given by approved certificate.
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-book or
an equivalent treatise.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equivalent
treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Botany. Elementary.
Civil Government. The American Constitution; Fed-
eral and State Governments.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
53
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple original problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or
equivalent treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of lectures
and recitations. A course of at least fifty experiments in
elementary chemistry actually performed by the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text-book similar to Carhart
and Chute’s or Gage’s. In both chemistry and physics the
laboratory note-book must be presented.
English. Part of the examination is given for answer-
ing questions upon the text-books and readings required in
the preparatory courses in English in the Preparatory
School of the University; the remainder for writing an
essay.
German. A two-year course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English and
easy English into German, or
French. A two-year course in French may be presented
instead of German under the same conditions. Ability to
54
BULLETIN OF THE
translate readily, rather than an accurate grammatical
knowledge, is expected.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four boks of the
Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based on the
text of Caesar,
PROGRAM OR GENERAL SCIENCE
The Program in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of mod-
ern science as will best enable the student to fit himself,
either for further study of a technical or professional
kind, or for the activities of business life. The natural
and physical sciences constitute the primary studies of
this program. Grouped about these are such studies in
English, mathematics, and modern languages, as experi-
ence has shown to be necessary for the intelligent pur-
suit of science and the attainment of the object of the
program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior
year.
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective. Ad-
vanced courses may be chosen in physics, chemistry,
biology and mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of Gen-
eral Science is required to submit, before the final exam-
ination, a written thesis upon some subject connected
with the elective work of the Senior year. The subject
chosen must have the approval of the professor in the
course selected. The thesis shall contain no less than
UNIVERSITY OF NQTRE DAME.
■ 55
five thousands words, and must be satisfactory in matter
and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the
final examination and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute per-
iods of laboratory work or one lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry L, VIL, each...................................$ 5.00
Chemistry IL, III., IV., VI, VIII, IX, XI, XIII, each.... 10.00
Chemistry, V, .......................................... 20.00
Physics III, Zoology I, Botany II, Mineralogy III, each.... 5.00
56
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Zoology	6	187	I	Zoology	5	187	I
Chemistry	4	123	II	Chemistry	4	123	II
Algebra	5	161	I	An. Geometry	5	161	II
Drawing	1	139	I	Drawing	2	139	II
Physiology	4	180	I	Physiology	4	180	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Botany	5	120	I, II	Botany	5	120	I, II
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5	179	II, III
Calculus	5	162	III	Calculus	5	162	IV, V
Chemistry	4	124	"V	Chemistry	4	124	
JUNIOR YEAR
Geology	2	150	III	Geology	4	149	I
Elective	5			Astronomy	3	119	I
English	3 .	148	I	English	3	148	I
French or	5	184	I	French or	5	184	I
German	5	151	I	German	5	151	I
Philosophy	4	176	I	Philosophy	4	176	I
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy	4	176	II	Philosophy	4	176	II
Three Electives in Science French or	9,11 5	184	II	Three Electives in Science French or	9,11 5	184	II
German	5	152	II	German	5	152	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THE PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them
for professional work either in the laboratory or the
class-room. Though fixed to a grtat extent, the sched-
ule of work admits in the Junior and Senior year of some
elective study.
Every candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject con-
nected with Chemistry and must submit, at least four
weeks before The final examination, a written thesis on
work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must con-
tain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recita-
tion.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry I., VIL, each..................................$ 5.G0
Chemistry II, III., IV., VI., VIII, IX, XL, XIII, each... 10.00
Chemistry V, .......................................... 20.00
Physics III., .......................................... 5.00
Mineralogy III, .......................................  5.00
58
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
CHEMISTRY.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Chemistry	4	123	II	Chemistry	4	123	II
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
French	5	184	I	French	5	184	I
English	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Chemistry	4	124	V	Chemistry	4	124	V
Calculus	5	162	III	Calculus	5	162	IV, V
Physics	5	179	II, UI	Physics	5	179	II, III
Chemistry	5	124	VI	Chemistry	6	125	IX
Gas Analysis	4	125	VIII				
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	7	125	IX	Chemistry		4	126	XI
Chemistry Elective Elective	5 5			Chemistry Chemistry Elective		3 5	127	XIII
Geology	2	150	III	Assaying Geology		2 4	169 149	III I
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy History of Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French	4 3 5 2 2	176 126	II XII	Philosophy Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French Thesis	4 5 2 2	176	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
59
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY
The Program in Biology has been designed for stu-
dents who wish to devote their time largely to biologi-
cal pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required to prepare an
essay during the first term of the Junior Year on some
subject pertaining to biology. Every candidate for a de-
gree must submit before the final examinations a written
thesis accompanied with original drawings. Students
not preparing themselves for the medical profession may
substitute for the advance courses in anatomy and physi-
ology equivalents from either mathematics, physics, or
English literature.
LABORATORY FEES.
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I., II., each..............$	5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany IL, IV., each............... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I., II. ............................. 1.00
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology ............... 10.00
Physics III............................................. 5.00
Chemistry III., IV., VI., each......................... 10.00
Chemistry V............................................ 20.00
60
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
BIOLOGY.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SHE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
1	1	< Zoology	5	187	I	Zoology	6	187	I
Chemistry	4	123	II	Chemistry	4	123	II
Microscopy	2	170	I	English	3	148	I
English	3	148	I	French	5	184	I
French	5	184	I	Drawing	1	141	IX
Drawing	1	141	IX				
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Physiology	4	180	I
Botany	5	120	I, II
Chemistry	4	124	V
Physics	5	179	II, III
Drawing	1	141	X
Physiology	4	180	I
Botany	5	120	I, II
Chemistry	4	124	V
Physics	5	179	II, III
Drawing	1	141	X
JUNIOR YEAR
Anatomy	3	112	I	Anatomy	3	112	I
Botany	6	121	III, IV	Botany	4	121	III, IV
Geology	2	150	III	Geology	4	149	I
Philosophy	4	176	I	Philosophy	4	176	I
Bacteriology	3	119		Chemistry	5	124	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Anatomy	2	112	II	Anatomy	2	112	II
Anatomy	3	112	III	Anatomy	3	112	III
Physiology	6	181	II	Physiology	6	181	II
Zoology Thesis	6	188	II	Zoology Thesis	6	188	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
61
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are two programs in Pharmacy: one of two years,
leading to the degree Graduate in Pharmacy, (Ph. G.); and
another of three years leading to the degree, Pharmaceutical
Chemist (Ph. C.)
ADMISSION
Applicants for admission to the short program must
be 18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
subjects required for the first year of high school work.
A certificate of work done equivalent to one year of high
school will be accepted instead of an examination.
METHODS
The requirements for the long program are the same,
except that an examination in Latin through Caesar and
Algebra as far as logarithms must be passed. Satisfac-
tory evidence of having spent two years in a high school
of the best grade will be accepted instead of an exam-
ination.
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and .complicated process.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success, in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of prep-
arations are required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal Med-
ication.
BULLETIN OF THE
EQUIPMENT
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as re-
quired.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same experi-
ence that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full charge. He is required to
furnish supplies for the department, order material, write'
business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the end of a
specified time he delivers the store in good order to his
successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physi-
cians, and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute
a very important part of the equipment. Under supervi-
sion of the instructor each student is required to read
them and to compound those requiring special manipu-
lation. The reading room is supplied with all the lead-
ing pharmaceutical journals and books of reference. The
Pharmacognosy room contains specimens of all the offi-
cial and a great many unofficial drugs for study and
identification.
THESIS
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a sub-
ject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results of this
work are carefully recorded and must be typewritten and
presented to the Faculty as a requirement for graduation.
Pharmaceutical Laboratory IL, and IV., each.............$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI., and VII., each........... 20.00
Chemistry I., and VII., each...........................   5.00
Chemistry III., IV., and VI., each...................... 10.00
Geology III. ............................................   5.00
Physics I. .............................................. 5.00
Microscopy ............................................... 1.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
63
PROGRAMS IN DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY.
Degree: Ph. G. “
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Pharmacy	8	174	I, II	Pharmacy	8	174	I, II
Chemistry	5	122	I	Chemistry	5	122	I
Microscopy	2	170	I	Chemistry	2	126	X .
Bacteriology	5	119	I	Physiology	5	180	I
Arithmetic	3	175	IX	Mat’ra Medica	2	172	VIII
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy	8	174	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	174	IV,V,VI
Chemistry	4	123	III	Chemistry	4	123	IV
Mat’ra Medica	2	175	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	2	175	VIII
Botany	5	120	I, II	Botany	5	120	I, II
Physics	5	178	I	Physics	5	178	I
Pharmacog’y	1	176	X	Pharmacog’y	1	176	X
Degree: Ph. C.
FIRST YEAR.
Pharmacy	8	174	I, II	Pharmacy	8	174	I, II
Chemistry	5	122	I	Chemistry	5	122	I
Microscopy	2	170	I	Chemistry	2	126	X
Bacteriology	5	119	I	Physiology	5	180	I
Arithmetic	3	175	IX	Mat’ra Medica	2	175	VIII
SECOND YEAR.
Pharmacy	8	174	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	1741 V, VI	
Chemistry	4	123	III	Chemistry	4	123	IV
Mat’ra Medica	2	175	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	2	175	VIII
Botany	5	120	I, II	Botany	5	120	I, II
Physics	5	178	I	Physics	5	178	I
Pharmacog’y	1	176	X	Pharmacog’y	1	176	X
THIRD YEAR.
Pharmacy	6	175	VI	Pharmacy	6	175	VII
Chemistry	5	124	VI	Chemistry	5	127	XIV
Geology	2	150	III	Urinary Anal.	3	124	VII (a)
Thesis	2			Toxicology	3	124	VII (b)
Elective	5			Thesis	2		
			1	Elective	5		
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
65
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the en-
gineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the five departments of
engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a knowl-
edge of the fundamental facts and theories that are ap-
plied in engineering work. Mathematics is foremost
among these requirements. The natural sciences receive
their share of attention and due importance is given to
language in arranging the programs of studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to corre-
spond as closely as possible to the real work of the engi-
neer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course. The
successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and acts
accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master math-
ematical subjects and skill and accuracy are acquired by
applying the results of mathematical calculations to par-
ticular practical cases in laboratory work.
Five regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, one to the degree of Elec-
66
BULLETIN OF THE
trical Engineer, one to the degree of Engineer of Mines,
and one to the degree of Chemical Engineer.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accommodate those who wish
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest pos-
sible time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department will be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works in
the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufacturing
plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour of .credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one
to two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in
laboratory work, shopwork or drawing are required for
each hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 34, the regular
students in the five Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of ma-
terials consumed and the deterioration of the apparatus
used, as follows:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
67
LABORATORY FEES.
Physical Laboratory I., and IL, each......................$	5.00
Physical Laboratory IV................................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory I. and II., each................... 15.00
Electrical Laboratory IV................................. 15.00
Shopwork, all four-year programs,	per term............... 15.00
Chemistry I.............................................   5.00
Chemistry II., VI., VIII, XI, XIII., XIV., XV............ 10.30
Chemistry V...............................................20.00
Mineralogy II., Sophomore year........................... 10.00
Mineralogy IL, Junior year................................ 5.00
Mineralogy III.,.......................................... 5.00
Crystallography IV........................................ 2.00
Petrography V............................................. 5.00
Metallurgy 1.............................................. 5.00
Assaying II.............................................. 15.00
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent in
the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution of
simple problems and numerical examples, as given in the
works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an equiva-
lent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States; Federal
Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in Tarr’s
text-book or an equivalent treatise.
68
BULLETIN" OF THE
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures, illustrated by experi-
ments and recitations from a text-book like Carhart and
Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is also required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry. Laboratory
work required.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must present
a three years’ course in German, French or Spanish.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon text-books and required readings
to be read in the preparatory courses in English; the remain-
der for writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfac-
torily he may begin at once the regular Freshman work;
but if he is deficient in any one or more subjects he may
enter conditionally and make up his deficiency as soon
as possible in the Preparatory School of the University.
Credits from high schools or preparatory schools in
good standing will be accepted in place of examinations.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare stu-
dents for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to per-
form intelligently the duties of their profession, either in
the office or in some of the responsible positions superin-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
69
tending the construction and operation of public works. To
secure these results the student is given, not only a sound
theoretical training in the courses of study, but he is also
required to study the practical applications of the prin-
ciples upon which the theory is based. The first two
years are devoted to the study of mathematics and the
theoretical branches. The last two years are given to
the study of applied courses—practical work in the la-
boratory and field, as much as possible, being required
throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study of
English is pursued until the student is qualified to pre-
pare acceptable themes on professional subjects. In-
struction based upon standard text-books on engineering
is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratorv, drawing-room and
field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class-
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening his
interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists of
surveyors’ transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with all
the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, leveling
rods, etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine. Af-
ter the student is taught the use and adjustment of the
instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are com-
70
BULLETIN OF THE
menced and continued progressively until the more diffi-
cult principles and methods are understood. In a sim-
ilar manner is instruction given in the courses of sanitary
engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of materials,
bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the student
with practical engineering subjects, and the most im-
proved method of execution and designing. A large
draughting room offers facilities for the proper study of
all the courses in mechanical drawing and design. The
room is splendidly lighted from above, well ventilated
and contains the latest form of drawing tables. There
are suitable arrangements for blue-printing, both by nat-
ural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West.
Some of the largest plants in the world are situated here.
One of the greatest water power developments in the
United States is located a few miles from the University.
Special advantages are thus afforded to students for the
inspection of the most modern engineering works now
completed or in process of construction. The City En-
gineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of the
Department connected with the course of study, is re-
quired of each student as a condition of graduation. The
thesis must embody the results of original research.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	71
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week •	SEE EOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	148	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
English.	3	178	I	French	5	184	I
French	5 o	184	I	Chemistry	4	123	II
Chemistry	4	123	II	Drawing	3	139	II
Drawing	3	139	I, II	Surveying	3	129	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	162	III	Calculus	5	1621IV, V	
Des. Geometry	3	128	I	Des. Geometry	3	128	I
R. R. Surveying	5	130	VI,VII	Adv. Surcey’g	5	129	IV, V
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5	179	II, III
Drawing	1	140	"V	Drawing	1	140	V
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	131	VIII	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	131	VIII
Geodesy	4	131	IX	Materials	3	132	x
English	3	148	II	Astronomy	3	119	I
Geology	2	150	III	English	3	148	II
Stereotomy	3	140	VI	Geology	4	149	I
				Drawing	3	141	VII
SENIOR YEAR
Engineering	5	133	XII	Engineering	5	133	XII
Hydromechan.	3	135	XVI	Hydromechan.	3	135	XVI
Bridges, Roofs	5	134	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	135	XV
Sanitary Eng.	2	134	XIII	Sanitary Eng.	2	134	XIII
Drawing »	3	141	VII	Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	4	133	XI
72
BULLETIN OF THE
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and for
the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and ap-
plied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only those ca-
pable of adapting themselves to these requirements
should take it up. The program of the department is
modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials used
in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the science
of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces the motions
of connected parts without reference to the cause of
such motions, to the work done or energy transmitted.
This is succeeded by machine design, which is a direct
development of kinematics, and the course continues
throughout the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the wood-
shop, in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and
pattern-making are taught. When the students have be-
come sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the
work of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine shop.
A systematic course of training is provided, which ad-
&
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	73
vances the student by easy steps until he has mastered
all the details of the work.
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as pos-
sible upon his own resources and abilities in exercising
his ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of the pro-
gram, embodying its chief results, and is expected to
show considerable originality.
Every possible advantage is given the student wish-
ing to specialize in some of-the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the par-
ticular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas engine
design and operation. A systematic curriculum of study
will be outlined in each individual case leading to a
complete and proficient knowledge of the work under-
taken.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus of
the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort is
made by the authorities to make the work as compre-
hensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all neces-
sary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop is sup-
plied with modern work-benches fully equipped with the
smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for turned
work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner, an edge
moulder and sharper, a universal trimmer, circular saw
with dado and drilling attachments and band saw, the
whole forming an adequate equipment for a thorough
mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is .derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
74
BULLETIN OF THE
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running the entire length of the building. The
latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in num-
ber, varying from a five-inch swing in the smallest to a
large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed, having a ca-
pacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two
drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a
Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit,
thus making the machine shop a model of its kind. There
have been completed lately in the machine shop seven
new screw cutting lathes of fourteen-inch swing, a high
speed bench hand lathe, one twenty-eight inch Sibley
and Ware drill press, one horizontal 8 x 12 slide valve
steam engine and a wood milling machine. The equip-
ment is added to regularly, and recently a Seneca Falls
lathe of fourteen inch swing and eight foot bed, a Crown
high speed lathe, a Toledo punch press and a complete
new set of chucks, drills, taps, mandrels and lathe dogs
have been installed to meet the additional requirements
of the courses. It is the policy of this department to re-
frain as much as possible from exercise work, and each
student is usually taking part in the construction of
some new machine or engaged on general repair work
for the University, a plan which is regarded superior to a
fixed routine of exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool-making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
75
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops, the
engineering students have access to the steam and power
plants of the University which have been recently re-
modeled and made to compare favorably with the best
contemporary practice. The main steam plant contains
two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers, aggre-
gating 1200 horse power. In connection with the boilers
is installed the necessary testing apparatus as follows:
a Worthington hot water meter for measuring the
amount of feed water, a feed water thermometer for get-
ting temperature of same, a high range thermometer
for temperature of generated steam, a throttling calori-
meter for ascertaining the quality of steam and an auto-
matic recording pressure gauge giving a continuous rec-
ord of the boiler pressure. Provision is made for finding
the temperature and pressure of the flue gases by means
of a pyrometer and draught gauge and for obtaining sam-
ples of flue gas for analysis with Fisher’s analysis appa-
ratus. These, with a Carpenter coal calorimeter for de-
termining the heating value of fuel, comprise a full and
complete equipment for giving the student an intimate
knowledge of the practical part of boiler management
and testing. A Webster feed water and purifier, two
compound duplex pumps, two vacuum pumps working
on the heating system, two large Worthington fire pumps
16 x 9 by 12 with a capacity of 1500 gallons per minute,
with numerous separators, steam traps, automatic reduc-
ing valves, etc., complete the apparatus in the main steam
plant. A McEwen high speed automatic engine, an Arm-
ington and Sims engine of similar type and several low
speed horizontal engines with polar and roller plani-
meters, indicators, reducing wheels, slide rules and
other necessary instruments, are used in studying the
operation of the steam engine, distribution and economy
of steam, regulation, valve setting and heat wastes.
BULLETIN OF THE
76
There have been recently donated to the mechanical
laboratory about four hundred brass and iron fit-
tings, used in steam and gas engineering, including
feed water injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups,
safety valves, relief valves, different varieties of globe
valves, gate valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bush-
ings and reducers. Many of these have been sectioned
to show the dimensions, and facilitate a study of the in-
ternal structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four cycle gas engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse power two-cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse power horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with circulating pump and cooling tower,
one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil, one Ap-
ple ignition dynamo with storage battery, two Hendricks
automatic igniters together with carburettors, spark
plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary equip-
ment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston car-
burettor and muffler, a National storage battery, Pitts-
field induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard mag-
netos with brass armored spark coils, one four engine
cylinder distributor and a number of improved standard
and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated by alcohol has been placed in the machine
shop, and the work of designing and building the en-
gine will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering top-
ics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete
line of trade catalogues.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. Week	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. Week	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	161	II
Fiench	5	184	I	French	5	184	I
Drawing	3	139	I	Drawing	3	139	II
Chemistry	4	123	II	Chemistry	4	123	II
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XIYb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	162	III	Calculus	5	162	IV, V
Drawing	3	141	VIII	Drawing	3	141	VIII
Chemistry	4	124	V	Chemistry	4	124	V
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5	179	II, III
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc ।	Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
An. Mechanics	5	131	VIII	An. Mechanics	2	131	VIII
Kinematics	5	165	V	Meeh's of Mat.	3	132	X
English	3	148	I	Mach’n Design	3	165	VI
Physics	3	179	IV	Physics	3	179	IV
Shopwork	3	168	XlVe	Valve Gears	2	166	VII
				English	3	148	I
				Shopwork	3	168	XlVf
SENIOR YEAR
Materials of Engineering	2	164	II	Steam Engine Design	5	164	III
Thermod’nam.	5	163	I	Steam Boilers	3	165	IV
Steam Engine Design Mechan’l Lab. Shopwork	5 3 3	164 166 168	III VIII XlVf	Thermod’nam Thesis	5	163	I 1
78
BULLETIN OF THE
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, and embraces it in theory, design, con-
struction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the de-
sign of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of engi-
neering.
The essential work of the first vear consists of a gen-
eral descriptive study of the different types of engines
with discussions on the general management, operation,
care and special uses to which this type of motor may
be applied. During the second year the general theory of
the gas, engine is studied and the design of an engine for
specific purposes is undertaken by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodyna-
mic efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Experi-
ments in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation
of vaporizers and carburettors, construction of spark
coils and care of motors will complete the work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room
by the complete building and testing of a gas engine of
a design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each stu-
dent is required to prepare the patterns and core-boxes,
machine the castings and forgings, assemble the com-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
79
plete engine and submit a comprehensive report of a test
on the machine constructed. If the report proves satis-
factory a certificate of proficiency is given to the stu-
dent and the gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student must have
completed courses XlVa and XlVb in shop work and
must certify by examination or certificate evidence of
a knowledge of algebra as far as logarithms and his fur-
ther ability to pursue the studies of the first year. Can-
didates shall also write a short essay, which must be sat7
isfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and para-
graph construction.
The equipment and facilities for the courses will be
found described on pages 73-76.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Geometry	5	206	E	Trigonometry	5	207	F
Drawing	2	139	I	Drawing	3	139	II
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
Chemistry	5	122	I	Chemistry	5	122	I
Physics	5	178	I	Physics	5	178	I
Gas Engines	5	167	X	Vapor Engines	5	167	X *
SECOND YEAR
Motor Design	15	167	XI	Motor Design	10	167	XI
Laboratory	3	168	XIII	Laboratory	3	168	XIII
Gas Engine ’	3	167	XII	Gas Engine Engines and Boilers	3 3	167 166	XII IX
80
BULLETIN OF THE
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and me-
chanical work. The study of the subjects arranged in
the program of Electrical Engineering is intended to
give a general education as well as a special training in
the technical branches involved in the various practical
applications of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class-room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires skill in hand-
ling tools and instruments, and obtains a working knowl-
edge of the principles involved. Careful records of the
work done in laboratories are kept by the student and
are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the end
of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
centre in the growth of which electricity is taking a
very prominent part. Electric power generated by steam
is now being distributed and utilized in several large
plants, some using the three phase alternating system,
while others are using the direct current. One of the
largest water power developments in the Middle West
is situatd within a few miles of the University. From
this establishment we receive three phase alternating
currents which furnish light for our buildings and
grounds, and power for driving motors in our shops and
printing offices, etc., all of which are operated by elec-
tricity.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
81
There are numerous other transmission lines and elec-
trical power plants operated by water power within a
short distance. Our students visit all of these plants ac-
companied by an instructor who points out the applica-
tions of the text-book theory in the design of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working condi-
tions.
Each candidate for graduation must present at the end
of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying the
results of an extended original research on an engineer-
ing subject, chosen at the beginning of the year, with the
approval of the head of the department. The descriptive
part must be typewritten on legal cap paper, and bound
in book form together with the drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows: A three phase A. C. induction motor arranged
to operate on single phase circuits with a condenser
compensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K.W. com-
posite wound Wood alternator of the latest type with
exicatter and a full set of switchboard instruments, sev-
eral transformers of different capacity, a high tension
transformer for testing insulation, an Edison bipolar 15
K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-Houston arc light
machine with regulator and fifteen lamps, a Wood arc
transformer for testing insulation, an Edison bipolar 15
machine capacity 25 lights, an Edison bipolar 3 K. W.
125 V. dynamo with special winding, a Van Depoele
compound wound dynamo, a special A. C. 5 H. P. dyna-
mo or rotary converter, a series wound dynamo with
wrought iron field, number of small motors, a forty horse
power high speed automatic engine, a set of inclined
coil alternating current portable instruments voltmeter,
ammeter and wattmeter, telegraphing relays, sounders.
82
BULLETIN OF THE
switchboards, etc., telephone apparatus including sub-
scribers sets of various modern types, a fifty drop manu-
al switchboard complete and a lot of separate drops,
jacks, switches, lightning arresters, etc., automatic tele-
phone switchboard containing first and second selector
and connector switches, interrupter heat coils, etc., and
three subscribers sets—with this apparatus all the opera-
tions involved in the operation of a 10,000 system may
be performed, a complete central energy switchboard,
several lines and subscribers sets and a selective signal-
ing four party line outfit, a collection of historical sets
including Reis’ transmitter and receiver, a standard port-
able bridge, a common portable bridge, a testing battery,
a power or foot lathe with wood turning tools, drills
and hand tools for metals, a set of tools for metal work-
ing, a calibrating lamp rack, a D’ Arsonval and common
galvanometers, Ballistic galvanometer, standard conden-
ser, etc., for capacity work, resistance boxes, standard
megohms, etc., high resistance Thompson galvanometer,
standard cells, voltmeter arranged for the comparison
on incandescent lamps, a plug switchboard controlling
all circuits, a small engine belted to shafting to drive a
plating dynamo and a buffer for cleaning and polishing
work to be plated, solution tank, etc.,—in all, a com-
plete outfit for electrotype work, a hot wire ammeter,
twelve ammeters and voltmeters mostly of the Western
type for direct current measurements, a set of wood type
for direct current measurements, a set of wood working
tools, a Kohlrausch bridge for measuring battery resist-
ance, etc., a lot of arc lamps series and constant poten-
tial open and enclosed arcs of various wattmeters of va-
rious types, a collection of motor starting rheostats, sev-
eral sets of parts of incandescent lamps showing the va-
rious stages in their manufacture, a large collection of
porcelain insulators used in electrical work including a
University of notre dame.	83
lot of insulators for high tension transmission lines, a
lot of armature core disks, transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders, pole nieces, samples of in-
sulation, commutator segments, etc., used in dynamos of
good design, donated by leading manufacturers of elec-
trical machinery, a case of marked samples of wire in-
sulators, lamps and other construction materials, a li-
brary of practical technical books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and trade publications, a Cooper
Hewitt mercury vapor lamp, a high frequency Tesla coil
and condenser, a working model of the induction motor
showing the action of the rotating field, a transmission
dynamometer capacity % to 10 horse power for deter-
mining the efficiency of small dynamos, a full size arma-
ture winding model mounted to rotate in bipolar and
. multipolar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with univer-
sal switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An abso-
lute electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for
illustrating static phenomena1, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of the
modern machine from the early forms of the reciprocat-
ing type, ten galvanometers of various types, a com-
plete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless telegra-
phy. For further apparatus consult pages 50, 51 and 52
of this catalogue.
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shopwork,
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages 49, 70, 72 and 73.
84
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER IN ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Fuun Term.	Hrs. Week	SHE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. Week	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Coarse			Page	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Analyt. Geom.	5	161	II
French	5	184	I	French	5	184	I
Drawing	3	139	I	Drawing	3	139	II
Chemistry	4	123	II	Chemistry	4	123	II
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	162	III	Calculus	5	162	IV, V
Des. Geom.	4	140	III	Des. Geom.	4	140	III
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5	179	TI, III
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	131	VIII	An. Mechanics Meeh’s of Mat.	2 3	131 132	VIII
Kinematics	5	165	V	Mach’n Design	5	165	VI
English Physics	3 3	148 179	I IV	English Electrical	3	148	I
Shopwork	3	168	XlVe	Measurement Shopwork Calorimetry	3 3 3	179 168 180	xrvf VI
SENIOR YEAR
Dynamo Machinery	5	143	III	Dynamo Mach. Electrical Lab.	5 5	143 144	III IV
Thermodyn’m	5	163	I	Designing	3	144	V
Electrical Lab.	s	144	IV	Thermodyn’m	5	163	I
Designing Dynamo Mach.	3 3	144 144	VI	Telephony Wireless	1	145	x
Power Transmission	1	145	VIII	Telegraphy Illuminating	2	145	XI
Electric Ry. Thesis	1	145	IX	Engineering Thesis	2	145	XII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
85
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year pro-
gram should take up the Short program, which may be
completed in two years. The studies are arranged to
give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental theories
of electricity and magnetism, as well as a certain amount
of skill in handling electrical machinery and appliances.
Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and elementary physics
are included, for they are neecssary in order to carry on
successfully the practical work of designing, manufac-
turing and testing or operating electrical apparatus.
Training in this practical work is given in the drafting
room, the machine shops, and in the electrical and phy-
sical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power are
learned by testing, repairing and making additions to the
University plant, and by visiting the numerous electric
establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by an in-
structor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as quadratics.
£6
i'
BULLETIN OF THE
They shall also write a short essay which must be sat-
isfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and paragraph
construction.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, according to the follow-
ing schedule, after they have finished all the work re-
quired for entrance, shall be as given on page 67.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	206	c	Geometry	5	206	D
Drawing	3	139	I	Drawing	3	139	II
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
Physics	5	178	I	Physics	5	178	I
Applied Electricity	5	142	I	Applied Electricity	5	142	I
SECOND YEAR
Trigonometry Designing	5 3	207 144	F V •	Engines and Boilers	3	166	IX
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Designing	3	144	V
Dynamo				Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
Machinery	5	143	III	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	143	III
Electricity	5	143	II	Applied			
. - - - _ .				Electricity	5	143	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
87
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
The wonderful growth and expansion of the mining
industry, not only in this country but in Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America, has created a constant demand
for trained men who have a thoroughly practical as well
as theoretical knowledge of mining operations.
The aim of this department is to give the student suffi-
&
cient training in the various technical branches of min-
ing to enable him to project and successfully carry
through a mining enterprise.
The course of studies leading to the degree of Mining
Engineer includes the essential subjects of Mechanical
Engineering, particularly those which have special prom-
inence in mining work; for the economical operation of
any mine depends to a great extent upon the judicious
selection and proper operation of the machinery in the
power plant, mill and smelter. Likewise the subjects
of Civil Engineering with but few exceptions, are em-
braced in the mining course, for the reason that many
of the problems of Civil Engineering must be solved in
the laying out and directing of mining work. Plans and
surveys of the surface improvements and underground
workings of a mine are made by the Mining Engineer.
In addition to these subjects the course includes the
following special branches: Crystallography, Mineral-
ogy, Petrography, Physical and Chemical Geology, Eco-
nomic Mining Geology, Metallurgy, Assaying and a thor-
ough study of Inorganic Chemistry in its application
to mining and metallurgy.
Throughout the course the object is not only to pre-
sent clearly the theory underlying each subject, but to
88
BULLETIN OF THE
fix it in the mind of the student by practical work in
the laboratory, shop, drafting room and in trips to min-
ing districts where the student becomes familiar with
the practical application of the principles laid down in
the text-book and lectures.
The subject of the thesis required in this course must
be along the line of mining and consist of original re-
search work in one of its special branches, to be ap-
proved by the head of the department.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING
Chemical manufacture has developed so rapidly and
grown so exacting that there has arisen a demand for
men who not only can create and improve chemical pro-
cesses strictly so-called, but who can deal with the prob-
lems of construction and maintenance as far as they are
related to chemical industries. To prepare young men
for such work the course in Chemical Engineering has
been designed. The student taking up this course is
given a thorough training in chemical principles similar
to that outlined in the Course in Chemistry except that
the laboratory period is somewhat shortened. To this
training is added a certain amount of the theory and
laboratory practice in Mechanical Engineering sufficient
for the needs of chemical industries, together with a
consideration of electrical currents as used in chemical
manufacture.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
89
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a "Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Chemistry	4	123	II	Chemistry	4	123	II
Drawing	3	139	I	Drawing	3	139	II
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
Mining Eng.	5	170	I	Mining Eng.	5	170	I
				Surveying	5	129	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	162	III	1 Calculus	5	162	IV, V
R.R. Surveying	5	130	VI, VII	Adv. Surveying	5	129	IV, V
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5 .	179	II, III
Chemistry	4	124	V	Chemistry	4	124	V
Drawing	1	140	V	Drawing	1	140	V
Crystallog’phy	5	150	IV	Mineralogy	5	150	II
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh. Geodesy	5 4	131 131	VIII IX	Meeh, of Mats. Hydromechan.	2 3	132 135	X XVI
English	3	148	I	Petrography	2	150	V
Mineralogy	3	150	II	Geology	4	149	I
Drawing	3	141	VIII	Drawing	3	141	VIII
Shopwork	3	168	XlVe	Shopwork Chemistry	3 5	168 127	XlVf XV
SENIOR YEAR
Metallurgy	3	169	I	Assaying	8	169	II
Physical and Chern. Geol.	3	151	VI	Economic Mining Geol.	2	151	VII
Petrography	2	150	V	Graphic Statics	5	135	XV
Thermodynam.	5	163	I	Thermodynam.	3	163	II
Matetrials of Engineering Shopwork	2 3	164 168	II XlVf	Thesis			
90
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	161	I
Chemistry	4	'123	II
Drawing	3	139	II
French	5	184	I
English	3	148	I
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa
Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Chemistry	4	123	II
Drawing	3	139	I
French	5	184	I
English	3	148	I
Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	162	III	Calculus	5	162	IV, V
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5	179	II, III
Drawing	2	140	III	Drawing	2	140	III
Chemistry	4	124	V	Chemistry	4	124	V
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	124	VI	Chemistry	5	127	XV
Physics	3	179	IV	Physics	3	179	IV
Anal. Meeh.	5	131	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	2	132	X
Kinematics	3	165	V	Hydromechan.	3	135	XVI
Drawing	2	140	V	Mach. Design	3	165	VI
Drawing	3	141	VIII	Valve Gears	2	166	VII
				Chemistry	2	125	VIII
				Steam Boilers	3	165	IV
SENIOR YEAR
Chemistry	6	125	IX	Chemistry	7	125	IX
Chemistry	3	127	XIII	Chemistry	4	126	XI
Chemistry	5	127	XIV	Chemistry	5	127	XIV
Thermodynam.	3	163	I	Thermodynam.	3	163	I
Mech’l. Lab.	3	166	VIII	Thesis			
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
91
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that
a deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Artist is the heaven-gifted man who, hav-
ing conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of form,
color, texture, and ornament, can build them structurally
and economically perfect. It is seldom that any mind
combines all of these attributes. It is more seldom that
to-day’s practice requires them in any one man. To-day,
one man “designs”; another “frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture from
the College of Engineering and to create the new Col-
lege of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offers three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The pro-
gram in design requires four years for completion and
is offered to students wishing to specialize in design;
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is the
same lengths and is offered to men wishing to specialize
in construction; the degree is Bachelor of Science in
Architectural Engineering. Graduate years are offered
in both programs, and upon completion, Masters’ degrees
are conferred. A Short Program covering two years is
92	BULLETIN OF THE
— -
s**	*
r- ‘	•	...	.	.
offered to students finding it impossible or inexpedient
to devote to school work the time required for com-
pleting the programs leading to degrees. Upon com-
pletion of the Short Program a Certificate of Proficiency
is given.
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the drafting-room continuously for four or five hours.
In the Senior Years and in the Short Program the class-
room requirements are less and the time to be spent in the
drafting-room correspondingly lengthened.	■
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
preparatory to the programs either in the Preparatory
School of the University or in another accredited school;
or, entrance may be by examination at the University on
the first two days of the Fall Term or in Chicago at the
offices of the University on days announced in the press
of that city.
Students may not matriculate with more than one con-
dition, and any condition interfering with the routine of
the courses must be worked off nrivatelv.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in Archi-
tecture, or in Architectural Engineering from Notre
Dame or another School of Architecture of equal stand-
ing. The University will confer the Master’s degree on
her own graduate students not in residence at the end
of one year if that time is spent in an atelier of the first
order or in travel abroad following an approved program
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
93
of study and investigation; or at the end of not less than
two years if that time is spent in practice and the Uni-
versity’s requirements are complied with.	.
EQUIPMENT
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from a
small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more com-
plete. There are a number of signed drawings—some from
the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from architects of national
reputation; a large elaborate model complete in all its de-
tails of the New Cook County Court House in Chicago;
photographs, engravings, plaster models, reference books and
manufacturers’ catalogues and samples The collection,
however, needs to be increased faster than the resources
of the University will permit. Philanthropic friends of
Notre Dame can not give money, or its equivalent, for a
better purpose. The endowment of a Traveling Fellow-
ship, preferably for the study of European Ecclesiastical
Architecture, will be a benefaction of the utmost value.
One thousand dollars will provide for one man for one
year.	. .
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS
Candidates for the Freshman Year in either four-year
program, or for the First Year of the Short Program
must be prepared to pass an examination in-the branches
named below, unless they have done their preparatory
work at Notre Dame or in an accredited High School.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon the text-books and required in the
preparatory courses in English; the remainder for writing
an essay.
Algebra. Fundamental operations, simple equations,
involution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and
quadratic equations, including everything up to logarithms,
94
BULLETIN OF THE
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or of an equiv-
alent in the larger treatises by other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Ancient, Medieval and Modern History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in the
ordinary text-books.
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equivalent.
Botany. Elementary.
Zoology. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as given
in high schools of good standing. Laboratory work is re-
quired.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text book similar to Carhart
and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is also required.
Civics. Elementary.
French. A three years’ course in French is required.
Ability to translate French into English, and easy English
sentences into French.
German. -A three years’ course in German is required.
Ability to translate German into English, and easy English
sentences into German.
Drawing. A knowledge of the use of drawing instru-
ments, of projection drawing and elementary freehand.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
95
THE PROGRAM IN DESIGN
Degrees: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this pro-
gram so to design it that the student pursuing it will
have upon completion a liberal general education, a prac-
tical working knowledge of Construction, and a system-
atic and thorough training in Architectural Design and
Composition. It may be undertaken by students whose
artistic intuition and temperament fit them especially for
the aesthetic side of a noble profession.
The course is built up around the work in the
drafting-room and atelier, where half of the student’s
time is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the
Freshman year with the intelligent study of the orders
and simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by means
of minor and major problems involving the planning of
all classes of building from the simplest to the most
monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by exer-
cises in the various methods and media of rendering and
by a thorough course in freehand and modeling. All in-
struction in planning and composing is based on accept-
ed principles' of design.
The materials and methods of all trades and profes-
sions engaged in building operations are systematically
studied in the Construction classes throughout the four
years of the program. The writing of specifications for
each branch in labor is studied synchronously. Practi-
cal work in the various trades is given so that the stu-
dent may know good work and thus be able to superin-
tend construction intelligently. The practical lessons are
&
.96
BULLETIN OF THE '
supplemented by inspection trips to the important build-
ing operations and industries in the neighborhood of the
University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used as
supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams, gir-
ders and trusses of all forms are studied and numerous
practical problems solved.
Working drawings and detail of construction are made
under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that graver
problems requiring a deep knowledge of the higher ma-
thematics may well be left to the architectural engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of high
professional standing will give a number of lectures in
this course.
A history of architecture and of the allied arts is stud-
ied in a course covering four years. The method is a
combination of lectures, recitations and research.
Courses either in mathematics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years complete
the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism and
research is done and larger and more complicated prob-
lems are given in design.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
97
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
Degrees: Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering.
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be thor-
ough, the engineer must specialize. One of his special-
izations is in Architecture. His services are needed to
frame important buildings, to design their foundations
and to protect adjoining property while they are in erec-
tion. The modern idea of education is to progress in a
course parallel to the world’s needs. The College offers
the Program in Architectural Engineering because there
is need of the service of the men who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
should have a bent for mathematics and for painstaking,
exact draughting.
The program of studies differs from that of the Pro-
gram in Design chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied mathematics are substituted
for the courses in English, economics and philosophy;
the more important construction courses go deeper into
theory; freehand work ends with the first year; the study
of Historic Ornament and the Histories of the “Allied
Arts” is omitted; and a relatively greater amount of time,
increasing each year, is spent in structural design.
The Graduate Year is spent entirely in the solving of
problems of the first order in architectural engineering.
98
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiency.
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program will
show that there is relatively less class-room work and
correspondingly more in Design each year than in either
of the complete programs.
SUMMER WORK
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,
projects, measured drawings or work in an architect’s
office will be required of all students of architecture.
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or de-
sign hour means two actual hours in the drafting-room.
It is the intention to have the students work steadily
for four hours in the drafting-room.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
99
PROGRAM IN DESIGN
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
El. of Arch.	8	117	I	El. of Arch.	8	117	I
Construction	4	114	I	Construction	4	114	I
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I
Drawing Des. Geom. )	2	137	Ic	Drawing	2	138	Id
Shades and J- Shadows j	1	140	III	Perspective	1	140	III
SECOND YEAR
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Design	8	117	II	Design	8	117	II
Construction	3	115	II	Construction	3	115	II
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	II
Drawing	2	138	Ha	Drawing	2	138	Ha
Graphics	2	135	XV	Graphics	2	135	XV
The’y of Des.	1	118	VII				
THIRD YEAR.
Elective Design	1	4 8	117	III	Elective Design	4 8	117	III
Construction Hist, of	1	us	III	Construction Hist, of	1	115	HI
Ornament	2	113	III	Sculpture	2	113	IV
Drawing Heat and	2	138	Hb	Pen and Ink Water	1	142	XIII
Ventilation	2	116	V	Color Sanitation	1 1	142 116	XI VI
Electricity	1	144	VII	Church Des.	1	118	VIII
FOURTH YEAR.
Elective Hist, of Painting	4 2	114	V	Elective Bus. Ethics Modeling	4 2 2	116 138	I
Drawing	1	138	HI	Design	10	117	IV
Drawing	1	142	XII	(Thesis)			
Design	10	117	IV				
At the beginning of the First Year the student matriculating for the
Program in Design may, with the consent of the Faculty, elect a Major in
Mathematics instead of the Major in English. The Mathematics courses
for the four years will be as follows: Algebra, I; Analytic Geometry, II;
Calculus, III, IV, V; Physics, II, III; Analytic Mechanics, VIII; Mechanics
of Materials, X.
At the beginning of his Third Year, the student following the regular
Program in Design may, if his proficiency in English warrants it, elect to
follow during the Third and Fourth Years one of the following courses:
English, Philosophy, Political Science, History, French or German.
He may not, however, elect a course in the same language that he offered
for credit at matriculation. If the above election is denied the student, he
must continue his work in English for one or two years more as may
be decided by the Faculty.
100
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Des. Geom.	3	128	I	Des. Geom.	3	128	I
Construction Shades and	4	114	I	Construction	4	114	I
Shadows	1	140	III	Perspective	1	140	III
Drawing	1	139	I	Drawing	1	139	II
Drawing	1	137	Ic	Drawing	1	138	Id
El. of Arch.	8	117	I	El. of Arch.	8	117	I
SECOND YEAR.
Calculus	5	162	III	Calculus	5	162	IV, V
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5	179	II, III
Construction	4	115	II, III	Construction	4	115	II, III
Design	7	117	II	Design	2	117	II
Drawing Theory of	2	138	Ila	Drawing	7	138	Ila
Design	1	118	VII				
THIRD YEAR
Anal. Meehan.	5	131	VIII	Anal. Meeh.	2	131	VIII
Sanitary Eng.	2	134	XIII	Mechanics			
Electricity	1	144	VII	of Mat’ls	3	132	X
Heating and				San’t’ry Eng.	2	134	XIII
Ventilating	2	116	V	Surveying	3	129	II, III
Hist, of Arch	2	113	I	Hist, of			
				Arch.	2	113	I
Struc. Design	8	118	V	Struct. Des.	8	118	V
FOURTH YEAR
Arch. Eng. Bridges and	2	115	IV	Arch. Eng Graphics	3 5	115 135	IV XV
Roofs	5	134	XIV	Hist, of			
Stereotomy	3	140	VI	Arch.	2	113	II
Hist, of Arch	2	113	II	Bus. Ethics	2	116	I
Struct. Design	8	118	VI	Struct. Des. (Thesis)	8	118	VI
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
101
SHORT PROGRAM.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I
Construction	4	114	I	Construction	4	114	I
Des. Geom. )			III	Perspective	1	140	III
Shades and [■	1	140		Drawing	1	138	Id
Shadows '				Pen and Ink	1	142	XII
Drawing	1	137	Ic	El. of Arch.	4	117	IV
El. of Arch.	12	117	I	Design	8	117	II
				The’y of Des.	1	118	VII
SECOND YEAR.
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	II
Construction	4	115	II, III'	Construction	4	115	III
Graphics	2	135	XV	Graphics	2	135	XV
Heat and			V	Sanitation	2	116	VI
Ventilation	2	116			1 .		
Electricity	1	144	VII	Bus. Ethics	2	116	I
Water Color	1	142	XI	Drawing	4	138	Ila
Drawing	4	138	Ha	Modeling	2	138	y
Design	8	117	III	Design	8	117	III
					1	118	VII
102
BULLETIN OF THE
COLLEGE OF LAW.
For several years a systematic movement has been
in progress, under the auspices of the bench and bar
of the country to elevate the standing and promote the
efficiency of the legal profession, and make it as learned
in fact as it is in name. The most essential preliminary
step to this end, as lawyers generally agree, is to prescribe
requirements and examinations more comprehensive and
rigorous as a test of qualifications for admission to the
bar. Under the influence largely of the American Bar
Association, the period now commonly prescribed for the
study .of law in a college is three years.
A period of three years’ study is prescribed for under-
graduates in the College of Law of the University of Notre
The courses lead, when satisfactorily completed, to the
degree of Bachelor of Laws. The Graduate program com-
prises an additional or fourth year of residal study, and
leads to the degree of Master, of Laws.
The degree of Doctor of Law (J. D.) or Doctor of
Civil Law (D. C. L.) presupposes the degree of Bachelor
of Laws and a Bachelor’s degree in Arts or Science.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location of the
University for diligent and persevering work, it is possible
for industrious students to do at least a fourth more a year
than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into three
classes, corresponding to each year of the program leading
to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The Graduate course
is for students who have received that degree and aim at
attaining, by further study and practical work, to a higher
grade of proficiency. A full year of study in each class
is obligatory. Moreover the student must pass a satis-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
103
factory general examination at the close of each scholastic
year. Graduates entitled to vote are admitted to the bar
on motion of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are ad-
mitted to the first year on presentation of a certificate of
graduation from some High School accredited to the State
Universities or by examination on subjects scheduled in
any of the programs of the Preparatory School at Notre
Dame. Certificates showing that the candidate has com-
pleted subjects required in any of the four year programs
of the Preparatory School at Notre Dame or of any other
reputable preparatory school giving equivalent courses, will
be accepted in lieu of examinations.
Students from other reputable law schools are received
at any time and allowed due credit for the work previously
done. They must, however, be in residence for at least one
year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice of the
profession or have only been admitted to the bar, as the
case may be, are admitted to the Senior class and entitled
to the degrees appropriate to their work and standing at
graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not intend to become candidates for
the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply to add to
their educational acquirements a knowledge of the funda-
mental principles of law, may at any time in the year have
their names enrolled on the list of special students. No
extra expense is thereby incurred. Yet they must be suf-
ficiently advanced in age and education to justify the belief
that they can understand and appreciate instruction in the
law. No particular academic entry requirement is pre-
scribed for them, aside from securing the consent of the
104
BULLETIN OF THE
Director of Studies and being of sufficient age and capacity
to understand and profit by instruction in the law. The
number of such students is likely to increase steadily, for
year by year it is becoming more manifest that an educa-
tion is not complete without a knowledge of at least the
elementary legal principles. Many a person has been forced
to do exactly the contrary of what he intended through his
failure to understand the essential elements of a contract.
Many a one has been compelled to pay heavy damages
for personal injuries caused by negligence, or failure to
perform a duty, or improper performance of it, where no
liability would exist if the law of torts had been known
and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
The study of cases is usually begun in September and
continues long enough to enable students to understand,
analyze and criticise the decision assigned to them for study
and recitation. Lectures and explanations supplement this
work. After thus familiarizing themselves with cases, they
are expected to read the authorities cited daily in class, ‘
whether in the text-books, lectures or quizzes, and must
report on their readings. In moot court work, likewise,
they are prepared for actual practice by making a careful
study not only of the cases in the reports, but also of those
cited in text-books and digests.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of the
text-books they studied, and such as have merely attended
lectures or studied cases, instead of reading text-books,
encounter danger of being declared ineligible to appear
for examination. As many law students come from States
in which this test is applied, the use of text-books is deemed
necessary. The books used by students become peculiarly
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	105
serviceable in their subsequent practice. They may be pur-
chased in the Students’ Office at the University at the low-
est retail prices. The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25
a year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded at
Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination with text-
book work, case readings and daily examinations, its great
value and utility can not be overestimated. Each subject
is fully covered by lectures, text-book work, weekly quiz,
monthly theses, bi-monthly examinations, the reading of
pertinent cases and formal trials in the moot court and other
courts of the college. Students have also the advantage
of attending important cases in the higher courts of South
Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrious student can ac-
complish twice as much in a given time at Notre Dame
as he can in an office or at home. With comparative im-
munity from the distractions and temptations of city life,
he can give his entire time to study and necessary recrea-
tion. In short, he can here study a greater number of hours
and do more class work day by day than probably anywhere
else in the country.
Students have from three to four recitations daily,
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases, the
questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt with
in the lectures. From one to two hours additional must be
devoted daily to office and library work, while four hours
weekly are required for moot court practice and exercises
of the law debating society. While this society and the moot
court offer exceptional opportunity and strong incentive
to acquire readiness in debate, fluency in speech and force
in forensic oratory, yet much benefit may be derived from
106	BULLETIN OF THE
attending the regular classes in elocution and oratory in
the College of Arts and Letters.
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law Program
iL is studied and kept before the class, with recitations day
by day at the same hour, until finished. It is believed that
in this way the mind follows it more closely and that it is
better understood than it would be if frequently inter-
rupted by the intervention of other and dissimilar subjects.
THE MOOT COURT
All students are required to attend and participate in
the exercises of the moot court. Students of the first year
are expected to serve as juries and as witnesses, while those
of the second year assist the Seniors and Graduates in the
conduct of the trials. The court is fully organized, having
a judge, clerk, state’s attorney, sheriff, coroner and re-
porter. Pleadings are filed in the clerk’s office, served and
returned by the sheriff, brought to an issue with due for-
mality by the attorneys, and the trial proceeds under the
rules of evidence before a member of the Faculty acting as
judge.
In addition to the moot court, which corresponds to the
ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully-equipped
court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk, master-in-
chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises theo
justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its district
judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts they
represent. Practice is combined with theory in their work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
107
The statement of facts in the cases tried are furnished by
the Faculty. Students acquire in this way a knowledge of
the customary procedure in the regular courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law school
* <»
libraries considerably larger than the library at Notre Dame, 9,3^
but it may well be questioned whether any of them shows
any more care m the choice of books, or is better adapted
for the use of students. All the latest reports of State and
Federal courts are on‘its shelves, and no difficulty is ex-
perienced at any time in finding the cases needed for ref-
erence, thesis writing and moot court work. A great li-
brary with a crowdingly large attendance of students—
too many to be personally known by or to have personal
attention from the Faculty—may often be less available
for use or accessible than a comparatively small one. It
happens sometimes in such cases that twenty or more
students are found vainly scrambling at the same time to
secure possession of a particular report of text-book. Such
experience, fortunately, does not fall to the lot of the young
men studying at Notre Dame. Not only all the latest re-
ports, but likewise the leading text-books, are to be found
on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in Moot,
court trials, but must not be carried to private
rooms. This rule is rigidly enforced by the li-
brarian. It is intended for the advantage and to facili-
tate the work of the students in common, for all have a
right to feel reasonably certain that when a book is needed
it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
4,000, but so carefully have they been selected that they may
108
BULLETIN OF THE
be said to surpass in practical utility many libraries twice
as large. The library adjoins the law lecture room. It is
practically open all day and until 9:30 o’clock at night. The
light and ventilation are excellent, and students find it a
very wholesome and comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of the
University is open, likewise, at all reasonable hours to law
students. The library privileges are on a generous scale,
and students are not specially charged for making proper
use of the books, but if a book is lost or injured through
negligence the cost of the book is charged to the borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings weekly. All students of the College
are members of it. They are required, each in his turn,
to participate in its debates and other exercises. The de-
bates commonly deal with questions germane to the law,
but subjects of history, political economy, and the like,
are also discussed. An excellent opportunity is afforded
at the meetings of the society to develop skill, power and
fluency in public speaking. One of the professors usually
presides and aids the members with his counsel and sug-
gestions.
THE COURSES IN LAW.
The following plan is observed in the courses given in
the College of Law:
FIRST YEAR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Elements of Law. Ten weeks.
Real Property, Hopkins. Twenty-two weeks.
Personal Property. Four weeks.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	109
Persons and Domestic Relations, Tiffany. Ten weeks.
Sales, Tiffany. Eight weeks.
Agency, Tiffany. Ten weeks.
Partnership, George. Eight weeks.
English I. Thirty-six weeks.
Parliamentary Law and Debating weekly.
SECOND YEAR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Criminal Procedure, Clark. Twelve weeks.
Damages. Twelve weeks.
Federal Procedure, Hughes. Twelve weeks.
{State and Federal Courts)
Suretyship and Guaranty. Fourteen weeks.
Bankruptcy, Insolvency and Receivers. Ten weeks.
Commercial Paper, Bills, Notes and Checks. Twelve weeks.
Interpretation of Laws, Black. Eight weeks.
International Law, Glenn. Six weeks.
Insurance, Vance. Ten weeks.
Bailments and Carriers, Hale. Twelve weeks.
Medical Jurisprudence. Lectures.
Moot Court. Practice weekly.
Logic. Fourteen weeks.
Ethics. Twenty-two weeks.
THIRD YEAR. '
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Evidence, Civil and Criminal. Sixteen weeks.
Corporations, Private, Clark. Ten weeks.
Corporations, Public, Ingersoll. Ten weeks.
Constitutional Law, Black. Ten weeks.
Equity Jurisprudence, Fetter. Twelve weeks.
Wills, Executors, Administrators and Guardians, Croswell,
Gardner. Twelve weeks. .
110
BULLETIN OF THE
Code Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Common Law Pleadings, Shipman. Sixteen weeks.
Equity Pleadings, Shipman. Fourteen weeks. n
Moot Court. Practice weekly.
Graduate ‘ Courses cover the entire field by way of
review, together with Moot Court practice, office work,
etc. The optional studies include Rioman Law, Admi-
ralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright, Patents,
Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc.
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION.
(In the description of the courses of instruction an
hour means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation
or lecture room and one hundred and twenty minutes in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year, or eighteen weeks.)
112
BULLETIN OF THE
ANATOMY
I.
Human Histology. Laboratory work and demonstra-
tions. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the human
body given to each student, and their structure demonstrat-
ed. This course is taught in connection with Course I.
under Human Physiology.
II.
Human LIistology. Lectures, recitations and laboratory
work. The work covers a thorough course in Normal
Histology, with the methods of hardening, staining, em-
bedding, section cutting, and mounting of tissues. Careful
work on the nervous system—brain and spinal cord, ter-
mination of nerve fibers, etc. Drawings made from each
preparation. Text-book, Pier sol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Human Anatomy. Lectures and Recitations. Osteol-
ogy and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular, vascular
and nervous systems and of the organs of special sense.
The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book,Cray.
[Three hours a week for four terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
113
ARCHITECTURE
I. AND II.
History of Architecture. This course includes a study
of history, manners, customs, politics and religion as well
as of the Architecture of Egypt,Assyria, Greece and Rome.
It takes up the rise and development of Christianity and
the Christian types—Basilican, Romanesque; Byzantine and
its Mohammendan offshoots; Gothic and Renaissance in
all their phases. Some attention is paid to Indian, Chinese
and Japanese styles. A comprehensive review is made of
American work. In seminar the course is completed by
a study and discussion of the various phases of “The New
Art”, both abroad and in the United States.
Instruction is by text-book, lectures, readings and re-
search. Text-book, Hamlin, Sturgis.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Historic Ornament. A study of the origin, and evolu-
tion of all styles of ornament, and of its application to archi-
tectural forms, appurtenances and objects of art.
Instruction by text-book, lectures, readings, and drawings
in various media.
»
In drawing fifteen plates are,required.
Text-book, Glazier.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
History of Sculpture. A brief historical review of
ancient and modern sculpture.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Marquand and Frothingham.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
114
BULLETIN OF THE
V.
History of Painting. A brief historical and critical’
review of Painting.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Van Dyke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
CONSTRUCTION
I.
In this course the student obtains a thorough knowledge
of the materials and methods of masonry, carpentry, roofing,
metal-working, painting. Each trade is considered separ-
ately, and at conclusion an exhaustive study of specification
writing and methods of estimating for it is made. Detail
drawings of constructive methods are made exactly as in
an architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on the campus one of his projects
and to furnish all levels required by the builder in order to
acquire thoroughness in the use of the architect’s, level arid
compass.
The University constantly furnishes employment to a
large force of trained mechanics who will give personal
lessons to the student in all branches of these trades. In-
spection visits are made regularly, as a supplementary ex-
. ercise in superintendence, to /important building operations
in the neighborhood.
Instruction by text-books and lectures.
Fifteen points must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder3s Building ’Construction Vo'ls. I} II;
Kidder’s Handbook. Supplementary, Sweet’s Index.
[Four hours a week for two? terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
115
II.
A thorough study of foundation work—caissons, piles,
grillage, spread and stepped footings; fire proofing of all
forms; the design and construction of steel framing.
. Working drawings for one of the student’s projects are
.‘made. Epecial care and. accuracy are demanded in the
preparation of the framing plans and details. This work
is traced and blue-printed by First Year students.
Instruction is by text-books and lectures. Eight points
must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vol. I; - Frietag; Supplementary,
Sweet's Index, Carnegie and Bethlehem “Millbooks."
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
A study of Reinforced Concrete; Elevators; Power
plants for buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Five points must be made in inspection and drawings.
Text-books, Watson; Supplementary, Sweet's Index,
Concrete Handbooks.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering. A course in which the
student is taught to solve graphically and analytically more
complicated problems in structural design and applied me-
chanics. Shoring^ underpinning, retaining walls, jointed
trusses, arches, vaults and domes are the more important
topics.
Instruction by text-book. Twelve points must be made
in instructions and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vols. I, III; Wittmann.
[Two hours a week for one term, three hours a week for one term.]
116
BULLETIN OF THE
V.
Heating and Ventilation. This course is a study of
the theory and practice of heating and ventilating public
buildings and dwelling houses. The different systems of
heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam, etc.,—are care-
fully examined and studied. The radiation of heat from
surfaces, the different systems of piping, condition of air
as to moisture, amount of air required, causes and best
means adopted to secure pure air; the necessity of good
ventilation and the latest approved methods for securing
this are some of the topics considered in this study.
Instruction by text-book and lectures. -
Text-book, Carpenter.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
■	VI.
Sanitation. The following are topics covered in this
course: The carrying away of surface water and wastes
from the building; pipes and fittings; one and two-pipe
roughing-in systems; traps; domestic water supplies; pump-
ing engines; heating of water for domestic purposes; plumb-
ing fixtures.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Cosgrove.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
I
BUSINESS ETHICS.
I.
In this course is given descriptions of a system of book-
keeping suited to the needs of an architect’s business, a sys-
tem of building accounts, filing systems for catalogue and
prints, a card index system for prints and general informa-
tion; of forms for agreements with clients, for proposals
and acceptances, for contracts and bonds, and for certi-
ficates ; the laws affecting clients, contractors and architects;
and the rules of professional ethics in private practice, com-
petitions and municipal affairs. '	.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Wait.	.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.*
117
DESIGN
I.
Elements of Architecture. This is a course of draw-
. ing. Thirty-two plates of standard size (or their equiva-
lent) will be made during the year. They will consist of-
measured drawings of the Roman and Greek orders, of the
various details associated with them and of simple problems
involving their use; of lettering; of exercises in wash and
color; and of studies in shades and shadows and perspective.
Each plate will be examined by the Professor in charge,
and may be marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest Men-
tion/’ counting J4, ^4 or 1 point, respectively. All plates
must be drawn and at least fifteen points registered.
Instruction is by text-book.
Text-books, Ware von Mauch, McGoodwin.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
II,	III AND IV.
These courses are the most important on the program.
In the solving of the problems the student makes use of
every item of information that he has acquired in all his
other class-work, for the aim of the instruction in design
is, primarily, practicability. The planning is straight-for-
ward, logical and direct;—the design is powerful, simple,
and expressive. The method is criticism. The means are
major and minor problems of varying degrees of difficulty
varying from a masonry gate-post to the most monumental
projects. These problems are stated in programs that are
made definite and practical and as like actual conditions
as possible. A recent problem was a public bath and read-
ing room on an irregular shaped parcel of ground in the
neighboring city. The students surveyed the ground before
beginning the sketches.
Second year men are required to execute eight minor and
eight major problems; third year men, eight minor and six
118
BULLETIN OF THE

major problems; and fourth year men, four minor and
three major problems and the thesis.
These designs are criticised by the Professor in charge,
or by some able architect especially invited. They may be
marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest Mention,” count-
ing M or 1 point respectively for minor problems, and
2, 3, or 4 points for major problems.
Fifteen points must be registered in second year design,
as many in third year design, and eight in fourth year
design before thesis work is started.
[Eight, eight and ten hours a week, respectively, for three years.]
V, VI.
Structural Design. These courses have the same rel-
ative importance as the courses in design. The analogy
goes further, the work is given as major and minor prob-
lems of varying degrees of difficulty and is judged and
. marked in the same manner. The scope of the problems
will vary from the making of an ordinary footing plan to
the framing of the structural steel of a large dome.
The amount of work and the points required to be reg-
istered is the same for the same year under Design II, III,
IV.	[Eight hours a week for three years.]
VII.
Theory of Design. A thorough study of the principles
of planning and proportion supplemented by study of the
perfection and faults of the world’s most famous buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Textbook, Robinson.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Church Design. This course is conducted by means of
lectures and research. It includes the arrangements of
sanctuaries, sacristies and baptisteries as affected by litur-
gical needs. The subject of church furniture and acces-
sories is also discussed.
. [One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	119
ASTRONOMY
Astronomy. Practical. This course is designed to meet
the requirements of Civil Engineering students and to
give them the training and information necessary for in-
telligently executing certain departments of work to
which they may be assigned in the course of their profes-
sional career. The course comprises a study of astrono-
mical instruments as .well as instruments of more pre-
cision than those used in ordinary surveying. The ad-
justment and use of these instruments are considered,
and instruction is given in methods of observation and
computation; problems'in finding right ascensions and
declination; different methods for finding latitude, longi-
tude and time are studied in detail, and the methods for
finding right ascensions and declination; different meth-
ods for finding latitude, longitude and time are studied
in detail, and the methods of making the observation and
their adjustments, and discussion of errors. Conversion
of solar time into sidereal, and sidereal time into solar.
In connection with this subject is given a more complete
study of-many of the topics considered in elementary
astronomy, as here they are treated mathematically; as
for example, methods for finding parallax, computation
of eclipses, altitudes and correction for refraction. The
subjects of procession, nutation, annual aberration,
proper motion of stars, etc., are studied. Text-books,
Young, Greene.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY % '
* • •
Lectures and Laboratory Work! Lectures' on the
A	*	“ B	*
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
120
BULLETIN OF THE
pointed out. The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture me-
dia and in studying' pure cultures of certain nonpatho-
genic bacteria in these media. Observations on the mi-
croscopic characteristics of bacteria and special atten-
tion to the microscopic technique required in bacteriolog-
ical work. Later on in the course some time is devoted
to practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic
germs by the various staining processes. Inoculation of
animals. Bacteriological investigation of water, air and
soil. Text-book, Abbott's Principles of Bacteriology.
[Three laboratory hours a week for one term.]
BOTANY
I.
Botany. Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the devel-
opment of the embryo and the processes of pollination
and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell, of its
products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and the va-
rious physiological phenomena; the structure, growth,
reproduction and general classification of the algae, fungi,
lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants. Text-book,
Bastin's College Botany.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Botanical Laboratory. Supplementary to Course I.
Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryophta,
pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in Course I.
Drawings must be made of all plants examined. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become familiar with their morphol-
ogy, structure and classification. The course is to ac-

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	121
company or to be preceded by Course I. Provision is
also made in this course for students in pharmacy to take
a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical botany.
Study of the determination and classification of the sim-
pler plants. The analysis of the phanerograms occupies
the time during the spring months and the student is
made familiar with the habitat and characteristics of the
local flora. Text-book for classification of plants.
Kellerman" s Spring Flora.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Botany. Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same as
that laid out in Strasburger’s or Vine’s text-book of Botany.
Special study is made of the physiology, ontogeny, phylo-
geny, ecology and classification of plants. Text-book,Stras-
bwrger.
[Three hours a w-ek for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany. Supplementary to
Course III., and either following or accompanying it:
(a)	Plant Histology and Physiology. Half of the
time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to plant
histology and physiology. The student is required to
study practically the method of killing, fixing, embed-
ding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of plant
tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(b)	Plant Classification Advanced. The other half
of the laboratory work is devoted to the determination
and classification of the more difficult plants, the com-
positae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc. Herbarium
study is required, as well as preparing and collecting
122
BULLETIN OF THE
plants for preservation. During spring and autumn fre-
quent excursions into the neighboring fields and woods
are made for the purpose of studying and collecting for
preservation the local aquatic and land flora. Text-book,
Britton's or Gray's Manual.
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
Systematic Botany. Principally laboratory and her-
barium work in special groups of phanurograms and
cryptograms. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This ^course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in botany. Library,
reference books and seminar work.
VI.
Graduate Work in Botany. Original research in sys-
tematic botany. Plant history and cytology. Prepara-
tory to the Master’s or Doctor’s Degree.
CHEMISTRY
(a)	General Chemistry. A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typi-
cal compounds. Text-book, Remsen's Elements of Chem-
istry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.] ...
(b)	. A Laboratory Course covering in. the. laboratory
the work of the Lecture Course (I. a.) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual} Maguire. 1 .
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	123
II.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A complete study of the elements and their
most important compounds, following the classification
based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a discussion
of the theories of the science. Text-book, Alexander
Smith's College Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(&) Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory course
to accompany Course III., the work consisting of the
preparation by the student of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, there is
taken up the study of the reactions involved in the sep-
aration and detection of the more common inorganic bases
and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of salts, and the
complex substances, such as earths, ores, ashes, etc. Text-
books, Perkin and Thorp, supplemented with lectures.
. [Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Qualitative Analysis. A course arranged for the
students in Pharmacy, comprising a study of the com-
moner metals and acids, their reactions and separation.
Text-book, .Perkin.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Quantitative Analysis. Course suited to the needs
of the students in Pharmacy, comprising the determina-
tion of substances, both gravimetrically and volumetrical-
ly. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
124
BULLETIN OF THE
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and es-
timation of substances, both gravimetrically and volu-
metrically. Complete analysis of a number of simple
salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis of many
complex substances. Text-book, Olsen.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
(a) Elementary Organic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons and
their derivatives, and the investigation of their properties.
Special attention is given to the aliphatic and aromatic
series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(&) Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prepara-
tion by the student in the laboratory of the most import-
ant and typical organic compounds and the investigation
of their properties. Text-book, Gatterman s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
(&)	Urine Analysis. A course of laboratory exer-
cises in the methods employed in the detection and esti-
mation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as well as
normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(&)	Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of poison-
ing. A chemical and physical examination of the com-
mon poisons to familiarize the student with their proper-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
125
ties. Attention is also given to their separation from
food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses in-
tended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
i. Gas Analysis.
ii. Water Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and Fats,
vi. Iron Analysis.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism, and
stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special reference
works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. (1) The first
term of this course is spent principally in the making of
organic preparations by methods demanding special
care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2) The second
term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the halo-
gens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds by the
various methods; also in the determination of molecular
weights of organic compounds. Text-books, special notes
and reference wofk.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]	I
126
BULLETIN OF THE
X.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this course
the chemical bases and their compounds are considered,
with special reference to their importance in pharmacy
and materia medica. Text-books, SadtlePs and Trimble's
Ph armaceutical Chemistry.
XI.
(a) Electrochemistry. Lectures, experiments and
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and their
application in the chemical industries, separation of met-
als, the preparation of chemical elements and electrosyn-
thesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen and Liipke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&) Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI. (a). Experiments dem-
onstrating the.laws and principles of electrochemistry,
electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electrometallurgy.
Quantitative determination of metals electrolytically.
Text-books, Liipke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry. The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book,
Meyer. Reference to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	127
* XIII.
(a)	Physical Chemistry. Lectures, recitations- and
demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas den-
sity, solutions, chemical dynamics, the phase rule, 'ther-
mochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van Deven-
ter.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Experimental Physical Chemistry. Laboratory
work to accompany Course XIII. (a). Vapor density
methods, calorimetric demonstrations, molecular weight
demonstrations by the freezing and boiling point meth-
ods, etc.	:
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and labor-
atory work. The consideration of chemical manufacture,
fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory of chem-
ically pure substances, organic and inorganic. Special
reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work in
special methods for gravimetric and volumetric determin-
ations of inorganic substances. Special reference work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XVI.
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to gradu-
ate students desiring to do original research work in
chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s de-
* -gree. " /
<7»	& *	*	.
128
BULLETIN OF THE
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine.
FIRST YEAR
Moral. The Articles of the Creed. The General Prin-
ciples of Morality Virtue and Sin. The Commandments’
of God. Text-book, Manual of Christian Doctrine. •
.	SECOND YEAR
Moral. The Commandments of the Church. The Evan-
gelical Counsels and Beatitudes. Worship and Means
of Sanctification,—Grace, Prayer, the Sacraments, Lit-
urgy, Text-books, Manual of Christian- Doctrine.
THIRD YEAR
Dogma. Revealed Religion. Pre-Christian Revelation.
The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church. God
Considered in Himself. Text-book, Wilmer's Handbook of
the Christian Religion.
FOURTH YEAR	-
Dogma. God the Creator. God the Redeemer. Sancti-
fication. Grace. The Sacraments. The Church as a
Means of Salvation. Text-book, Wilmer's Handbook of
the Christian Religion.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are considered
problems on the point, right line, and plane; single
curved, double curved, and warped surfaces; problems
relating to tangent planes, to single curved, double curved
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
129
and warped surfaces; intersection of surfaces; spherical
projections; orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylin-
drical, and conic projections; construction of maps, shades
and shadows; linear perspective; isometric projections;
theory and plates. Numerous practical problems and ex-
ercises requiring the application of the principles of De-
scriptive Geometry, are added by the instructor. Text-
book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supplying omis-
sions; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land; divid-
ing up land: public lands survey. Text-book, Gillespie.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in*
the class room; practice in keeping field notes; computa-
tion and plots.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
IV.
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II,
and cannot be taken until the completion of that course.
It treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
130
BULLETIN OF THE
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit
and stadia; mining surveying, mining claims; survey of
mines with shafts and drifts; determining positions of
ends of tunnels, and depths below surface; theory of hy-
drographic and city surveying; geodetic surveying and
leveling; measuring base lines; adjustments of angles,
triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude and azimuth; time
and longitude; changing mean time into sidereal time
and sideral time to mean time. Text-book, Johnson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Surveying. Exercises in the field in the adjustment and
use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane table
surveying in the fields, leveling; practice in hydrographic
surveying.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Railroad Surveying. This course comprises all the
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary sur-
veying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy in
grades and curves; location of curves by deflection angles
and offsets; obstacles to location of curves; special prob-
lems in curves; theory of compound curves; turnouts
and crossings; curving the rail on curves and elevation
of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical curves;
earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory of excavation
and embankment; correction in excavation on curves;
cross-section leveling; theory of the transition curve and
practical applications. Text-book, Searle, Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	131
VII.
Railroad Surveying. Exercises in the field; staking
out and running tangents, simple, compound and tran-
sition curves; execution on the ground of many prob-
lems previously treated theoretically; survey for a short
line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and setting
slope stakes; making profiles and maps; calculating the
necessary excavations and embankments and cost of con-
struction; culverts.
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of statics, kinema-
tics and kinetics. Th^ subjects selected are studied with
the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering stu-
dents to pursue the technical and practical branches of
their respective courses. Some of the topics considered
in this course are: work, energy, conservation of energy;
power, composition and resolution of forces, center of
gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia, acceleration,
dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction, etc. Text-
book, Ziwet.
[For Civil Engineering Students, five hours a week for first term.
Two hours a week for second term.]
[For students in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, and Mining
Engineeirng, four hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
IX.
Geodesy. This is an elementary course prescribed for
Civil and Mining Engineering students in the Junior
year, and comprises a study of the instruments and meth-
ods of observation, base measurements and field work
of the triangulation; method of least squares, elementary
132
BULLETIN OF THE
course; calculation of the triangulation, and theory of
probable errors; geodic latitudes, longitudes, and azi-
muths. This is followed by a brief discussion of the
figure of the earth. Text-book, Merriman.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
X.
Mechanics of Materials. This course is intended to
meet the requirements of engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of forces
on beams and structures, to design economically and in-
telligently the parts entering into a complete structure.
The course comprises a study of the elastic and ultimate
strength and ultimate deformation of the materials of
engineering, their properties and methods of testing, and
discussion of cases of simple stresses. The general theory ’
of beams including cases of simple and cantilever beams,
overhanging, fixed, and continuous beams, is thoroughly
investigated. Columns are examined according to Eu-
ler’s, Rankine’s and other formulae, and results compared.
Some of the other subjects considered in this course are-
torsion of shafts, the transmission of power by shafts,
apparent combined stresses, such as flexure and com-
pression, flexure and torsion, etc. Compound columns
and beams, reinforced concrete beams, plate girders and
other forms. Then is studied the subjects, resilience and
work, impact and fatigue, true internal stresses, centri-
fugal tension and flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,
the course closing with a study of the mathematical
theory of elasticity. Text-book, Merriman.
[For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a week for two
terms.]
[For students in Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and Chemical
Engineering, three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	133
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended to fa-
miliarize the student with the practical details of laying
out and constructing highways, the method of drainage,
grading, and most suitable road covering, the improve-
ment of streets in cities and materials used for paving
and covering. The manner of preparing the street be-
fore paving is placed in position is fully considered and
illustrated. The course includes a thorough discussion
of the theory of pavements and a description of the va-
rious materials used, such as cobble and stone-block,
asphalt, brick, wood and broken stone pavements. The
method of preparing plans and specifications for the va-
rious conditions arising are considered and original plans
are prepared by students. Attention is also given to the
construction of street-car tracks in paved streets. Text-
book, Baker.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.	.
Engineering. This course is taken by students of Civil
Engineering in the Senior year and teaches the best ap-
proved methods of constructing engineering works and
the styles of structures suitable for different localities.
The study is quite comprehensive, including the general
theory of the arch and application to the voussoir arch;
the theory of earth pressure, and the design of retaining
walls; foundations suitable for structures of various
classes in connection with which the student becomes ac-
quainted, not only with the methods for ascertaining the
bearing power of the foundation, but also the means for
constructing deep foundations. The methods for tunnel
construction, sewer construction, irrigating canals, river
134
BULLETIN OF THE
improvements, are included in the course and given by
text-book and lectures. The part pertaining to masonry
construction includes a study of the properties of stone,
brick, mortar, the manner of testing foundations under
water, the crib and open caison process, the pneumatic
process, the theory of masonry arches and design, arch
centers, selection of site for bridge piers and arrange-
ment of spans, the details of construction of bridge piers
and manner of location, specifications for masonry, etc.
Text-books, Howe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of sew-
age in populous districts: shape, material and calculation
of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation; separate
and combined systems compared; pollution of rivers;
chemical precipitation; results and costs of purification;
general municipal and domestic sanitation; inspection of
neighboring works. Text-books, Staley and Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roofs. This course comprises a study of
. the different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses,
and the calculation of the strains produced when loaded
in any manner, the weight of the structure and the ef-
fect of wind included. Both graphical and analytical
methods are used. Besides the various systems of trussed
bridges, which are studied in detail, the plate girders,
suspension bridges, cantilever bridges, draw bridges, and
roofs of various designs are given equal attention; the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
135
purpose being to familiarize the student with the different
forms and enable him to design and to estimate the cost
of construction. Text-book^ Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the determina of
stresses in framed structures by the graphical method.
Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of gravity,
and moments of inertia are graphically determined by
the' application of the principles of the force and equili-
brium polygons; also the determination of stresses in
bridge trusses with parallel chords and with broken
chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive wheel
loads: graphical determination of stresses in roof trusses,
graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical and un-
symmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-ribs of
hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams; temper-
ature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied to con-
tinuous girders. This course is supplemented by full ex-
planations, notes, examples, and problems. Text-book,
M er riman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
An elementary course two hours a week for two terms
is given to students following the Program in Design and
Short Program in Architecture.
XVI.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study of
the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrodynam-
ics, to which are added many practical exercises. The
subjects admitted are the transmission of pressures, cen-
ter of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of various
shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem with friction:
Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over weirs, and
through tubes; flow in pipes; loss of head in friction and
136
BULLETIN OF THE
other losses; flow in conduits, canals, and rivers, veloci-
ties in cross sections; methods of gauging the flow, meas-
urement of water power, dynamic pressure of flowing
water; designing of waterworks and standpipes; hydrau-
lic motors and relative merits; discussion of water wheels
of different types, and a study of the conditions deter-
mining high efficiencies; classification of turbines, and
a complete study and discussion of the different forms.
Text-book, Merriman.
[For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a week for two
terms.]
[For students in Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and Chemical
Engineering, two hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
DRAWING, ARTISTIC
In this department the aim is to lay a.thorough foun-
dation in drawing for those who wish to make Art a pro-
fession, but the courses are so arranged as to be acces-
sible to other students. The system of teaching, which is
that followed in the best art schools, is intended to de-
velop the individuality of each student, so that with a
good understanding of the principles of art he may inter-
pret nature according to his own temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, object and na-
ture. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer many
beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes, and the
classes are taken out in the summer for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was carefully selected at the National School
of Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	137
Full Figure. The Diadumenos (British Museum) ; the
Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically: the
Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michel An-
gelo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre); and
Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads. Asiaticus (Paris) ; Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol); Cato (Rome, the Vatican); Cicero (Rome,
the Capitol) ; Dante (Florence, Uffizi) ; Agrippa (Lou-
vre) ; Venus (Vatican); Centurion (Naples); Ariadne
(the Capitol) ; Psyche of Naples (Naples) ; Vestal (Vati-
can) ; Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters of Niobe
(Florence).
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the An-
tinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and archi-
tectural ornaments, taken from monuments of antiquity,
the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and of elements of
the human figure (hands, feet, etc.) from the antique and
some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(a) Drawing from casts or ornaments purely geomet-
rical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc. Sketching
from simple objects.
(&) Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the ele-
ments are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves and flowers.
(f) Drawing from architectural elements, such as ped-
estals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on perspec-
tive, direction of the principal lines in relation to the
138
BULLETIN OF THE
horizon. Elementary notions of the five orders of archi-
tecture.
(d) Drawing from casts of the human figure; hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketching
from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a) Drawing from the antique heads and busts. Still
life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature. Se-
lection of a subject. Composition in landscape. Applica-
tions of perspective.
(&) Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional -
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching
from the costumed model. Still life in water colors. His-
tory of Art.
III.
Life Class. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science Hall.
Still life painting in water colors and oil. Landscape
painting. Drawing for illustration.
IV.
Sketch Class. One hour a week. The students have
themselves an organization, “The Crayon Club,” the ob-
ject of which is to sketch college scenes and to do illus-
trative work; these sketches are brought into class and
criticised.
Modeling. In the spring terms of the Sophomore, Jun-
ior and Senior years in Architecture modeling in clay is
taken up. The objects modelled are architectural forms,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	139
copied from the cast or made from the student’s drawings
of his own work, as his progress and ability may warrant.
VI.
Class of Decorative Design. The object of this de-
partment is to prepare students for professional work in
decorative designings of all kinds. They will take up
the study of historical ornaments and will be taught the
several principles of the arrangement of designs, and
from personal sketches of plants and flowers will be
shown the art of making original designs for wall paper,
book covers, stained- glass, carpets, interior decorations,
metal plates, etc. No particular program is given out as
the teaching is purely individual.
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
Drawing A and B (see pages 198, 199) are required to
take up drawing I, II.
Two hours of actual time in drawing are’ required for
each credit hour in the schedule.
I.
Freehand. This course consists in sketching with pencil
from various models of various machine parts. Later in
the term, the use of instruments is taken up illustrating
problems in the Engineering course. Text-book, Jamison’s
Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the princi-
ples of projection, methods of shop-drawing, tinting, trac-
ing, blueprinting, line-shading and the preparation of
working drawings of complete machines. This course
must be preceded by Course I. Text-book, Jamison’s Man-
ual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
ft
140
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates is
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective
and isometric projections. (Students in Architecture are
required to do advanced work in shades and shadows and
perspective.)
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
' IV.
Kinematic Drawing. Designing of cams and gear teeth,
complete working drawings of machines involving the
application of kinematics and the computation of dimen-
sions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography. Pen and colored topographical drawing,
conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken from
surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I.
Text-book, Reed.
VI.
Stereotomy. This course comprises a study of the ap-
plication of the principles of Descriptive Geometry to
the determination of the forms and sizes of the stones
used in the construction of the different classes of arches
and masonry structures. This course is given by lectures
in the drawing room, explaining the construction of tem-
plates, and the use of directing instrument; also explana-
tions of methods of drawing plans, elevation and develop-
ment of oblique arches, wing walls and the like. A cer-
tain number of plates and drawings is required, illustrat-
ing the methods of performing practical work.
UNIVERSITY OF. NOTRE DAME.
141
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry construction, foundations, dams, piers, abut-
ments, culverts, and arches. Text-book, French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from simple
framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of various de-
signs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineering. Com-
plete design of a railroad bridge and detail drawings,—a
short general course of bridge designing for Seniors.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Machine Drawing. A continuation of Courses I. and
II. embracing advanced work in machine drawing and
the elementary principles of mechanical design with cal-
culation of dimensions and construction of drawings from
sketch-book notes. Text-book, Love’s Machine Drawing and
Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Freehand. The principles of freehand drawing in
pencil and pen from objects, and later from biological
specimens, plants, animals and microscopical preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
X.
Freehand. Advanced drawing from plants and anato-
mical dissections of animals. Illustrations for publica-
tions.	. j j 2. J
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
142
BULLETIN OF THE
XI.
Water Color. Drawing in water color from still life
and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
Rendering in Water Color. The rendering of archi-
tectural drawings, including perspectives,—casting of
shadows, color treatments of buildings and handling of
foreground and background.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIII.
Pen and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and ink from
studies by noted artists in this branch of art; followed
by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Applied Electricity. A course of lectures and recita-
tions, supplemented by laboratory practice, on the gen-
eral theory of electricity and magnetism and its applica-
tion to practical work, as follows: Setting up and test-
ing primary and secondary batteries, systems of call bells,
electric and gas lighting appliances, fire and burglar
alarms, telegraph and telephone lines, switch boards and
accessories. Experiments with induction coils, magnets,
switches, voltmeters, ammeters, wheatstone bridges, gal-
vonometers and other measuring instruments. The study
of direct current generators and motors, arc and incan-
descent lighting systems, street railway machinery and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
143
appliances, electric heating and forging, electrolytic pro-
cess, etc. Text-book, Swoope’s Practical Electricity.
{Students in Architecture spend one term in this course.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Applied Electricity. Lectures and laboratory work on
the construction and testing of switches, magnets, meas-
uring instruments, induction coils, etc. The calculation
of sizes of wire and location of circuits for lighting and
power, the experimental study of alternating current ma-
chinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the fit-
ting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptibility to spe-
cial purposes. This course must be preceded by Course I
{Courses I. and II. are required in the Short Program
Electrical Engineering; they are elective for general students
and those studying telegraphy.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery. Recitations on the
physical theory of dynamo machines, armature actions
and reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical points,
theory of armature winding, the mathematical theory of
alternating currents, phase relations, modern forms of
single phase and multiphase generators and motors, de-
sign of transformers. Text-books, Sheldons Dynamo Elec-
tric Machines, Sheldon and Mason’s Alternating Currents.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
144
BULLETIN OF THE
IV.
Electrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring build-
ings for lights and power, testing circuits for insulation
and grounds, construction and operation of storage bat-
teries, management and care of dynamos, characteristic
curves of particular machines under different conditions,
efficiency tests of motors by absorption dynamometer
methods, alternating current dynamo and transformer
tests, the testing of storage batteries, and complete plant
efficiency tests. Careful notes are taken.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Designing. The designing and making of working draw-
ings of switches, resistance and other electrical apparatus.
Calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for
lighting buildings. Complete drawings of direct and al-
ternating current dynamos. Laying out plants for power
and lighting.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Dynamo Machinery. Laboratory. Study of funda-
mental principles, characteristics of D. C. dynamos, speed
and torque of motors, A. C. generators and motors, trans-
formers and accessories, power measurements and efficiency
tests.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
VII.
Applied Electricity, Laboratory and Lectures on the
uses of electricity in buildings, systems of wiring, materials
used, the Underwriting requirements for study of bells and
telephones, electric lighting, photometry and illumination.
For students in Architecture,
[One hour a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
145
VIII.
Power Transmission. Lectures and recitations on pole
lines, underground work, limits of voltage, insulators, choice
of frequency., cost of construction, depreciation and other
financial matters.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
Electric Railways. Lectures and recitations on track
and overhead construction, cars, trucks, motors and systems
of control for both direct and alternating, current, sub-sta-
tions, operation and financial considerations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Telephony. Laboratory and lectures on general princi-
ples, intercommunicating systems, switchboard systems,
manual and automatic, operation, cost of equipment, main-
tenance and depreciation.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XI.
Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony. Experimental
practice and lectures on the theories involved in the - con-
struction and operation of the leading systems, osculators
and sending apparatus, detectors and receiving devices,
tuning to prevent interference.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.	.
Illuminating Engineering. Lectures on the theory
and operation of the various kinds of electric and other
lamps, distribution of light and the location of lamps to
produce the best illumination, practical problems and the
study of particular institutions, the cost per candle power
or per candle foot including first cost, attendance, break-
age and depreciation.
[Two hours a week for ten weeks.]
XIII.
Inspection Trip to Chicago'. Study of the larger
146
BULLETIN OF THE
power, lighting and telephone installations also factory
methods in several typical industrial establishments, trips to
the hydraulic and steam generating plants along the St.
Joseph river.
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I.
Readings and Declamations. This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Each
student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of Course
I. Each student is required to give three declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
III.
Practical Elocution. Exercises in breathing, voice cul-
ture, and action. The principles of pronunciation and
emphasis and their application in the reading of selec-
tions. Text-book, Pulton and Trueblood3s Practical Elocu-
tion.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Practical Elocution. Further exercises in breathing,
voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and time.
Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on the prin-
ciples of action. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s Prac-
tical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
V.
Oral Discussions. The application of formal logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	147
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and
a course in logic are required for admission to this course.
Sections are limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for one term.] ,
VI.
Oratory. A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Each student is required to write and de-
liver a biographical oration on one of the great orators.
Lectures on methods of public address. Courses III. and
IV. above, and Course I. in English are required for ad-
mission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-
four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VII.
Shakespearean Reading. The critical and artistic
reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with
stage action. The students present the play by scenes
before the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for
admission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-
four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Assembly Work. This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists of
debates, short orations, minute speeches, declamations,
impromptu and drill work in parliamentary law.
[One hour a week for four terms.]
148
BULDETIN OF THE
ENGLISH
I.
(a)	Sherars Handbook of Literary Criticism.
[Three hours a week for twenty-six weeks for
Engineering Students.]
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks for Art
and Letters students.]
(b)	Essay and Oration. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week for twelve weeks for Arts and Letters stu-
dents.]
(c)	Sears’ Methods and Principles of Criticism.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned read-
ings.
II.
(a)	Sheran’s Handbook of Literary Criticism.
[Two hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Catholic Authors.
[One hour a week for fourteen weeks.]
(c)	Poetry and The Poets. Texts, theory and critical
study. Page’s American and English Poets. Corson’s A
Primer of Verse.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]_
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
III.
Fiction, (a) The Short Story, technically, historically
and critically considered.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b) The Novel, technically, historically and critically
considered.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
149
IV.
The Drama, (a) Hennequin’s The Art of Play writ-
ing.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(&) Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of Shake-
speare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen weeks.]
(f) Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects specified attention will be given
to current productions with a view of properly acquaint-
ing the student with the writers of the day.
Graduate Work in English. Students wishing to do
advanced work in English will be provided with library
facilities and led through the usual work for the degree
of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Faculty of Eng-
lish may be any special aspect of a literary form or epoch,
or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by professors make up the course.
X
GEOLOGY
I.
Geology, Principles of. Lectures, recitations, demon-
strations. The study of the general features of the earth;
the material composing the accessible parts of the earth;
the arrangements of the material in rocks; the causes of
geological changes; the history of the earth and the va-
150
BULLETIN OF THE
rious forms of life that existed in the different periods of
successive geological ages. Text-book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Mineralogy. The object of this course is to train the
student to identify minerals by their physical characteris-
tics, such as crystal form, cleavage, color, hardness and
specific gravity without having to resort to blowpipe or
chemical tests except in the rare minerals. Recitations
are made upon drawers of minerals in which the student
points out the distinguishing features by which he rec-
ognizes the different minerals. Text-book, Dana.
[Five hours a week for one term, three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Mineralogy. Letures, recitations, and laboratory work.
A study of crystallography and the classification of min-
erals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory and mu-
seum in the determination of minerals, especially the
ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Crystallography. In this course there is made a com-
plete study of the laws in the different systems of crystal
formation, by means of laboratory work in models, nat-
ural crystals and cleavage specimens. Text-book, Williams.
Petrography. This course is a study of rocks with re-
gard to their classification, structure, mineralogical con-
stituents, chemical composition and alterations; a study
of the physical characters of the minerals shown in thin
' UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	151
transparent rock sections with the aid of the microscope;
a practical study of rocks in the hand specimens and
also in summer field work .
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Geology., Physical and Chemical. A course treating -
of the origin and alterations of rocks, of general eruptive
and earthquake action, metamorphism, faulting, jointing,
and mountain building: the action of atmospheric agen-
cies, surface and underground waters. All of which sub-
jects are specially considered in their application to min-
ing pursuits. Text-book, Chamberlain and Salisbury’s Geo-
logy.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Geology, Economic Mining. A study of the genesis
of the useful ore deposits, both metallic and non-metallic;
an analysis of the relation existing between structural,
dynamic and chemical geology, petrography and the ore
deposits encountered in mining operations. Frequent
reference is made to the bulletins, monographs and re-
ports of the United States Geological Survey. Lectures
and recitations.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
GERMAN
I.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation from German into Eng-
lish of simple prose; translation of English exercises into
German. Reading of short stories and selections from
more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.] •
152
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of narra-
tive prose and selections from history. Sight reading of
selections from history.
Hermann and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichenstein, Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems and
prose writing. Translation of selections from history
and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; Best known poems, Heine;
Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK
I.
Lysias. Orations selected. Short history of the Attic
orators.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
Epitome of the New Testament: Parts IV., N., Stoffel.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Lysias. Orations selected.
Homer. Odyssey.
Prose Composition based on Lysias.
St. John Chrysostom. Eutropius.
III.
Herodotus. Selections. Study of Herodotus* dialect.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Basil. De Frofanis Scriptoribus.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
153
IV.
Herodotus. Selections.
Selections from the Greek Lyric Poets.
Advanced Greek Prose Composition.
St. Gregory. Machabees.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Demosthenes. The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics. Review of the political
situations at Athens and events bearing upon the ora-
tions.
Thucydides. Book I. Greece before the Peloponnesian
War. Importance of this war in Greek history. The
speeches will form the subjects for special class interpre-
tations. Stylistic differences between pure Attic and
archaic will be pointed out.
During this course special attention will be given to
textual and exegetical criticism, practically shown by
' passages selected for that purpose. This Is done in the
belief that it is the best way to make students appre-
ciate the notes in school editions of classical authors.
Practical Exercises—Embodying idiomatic expressions
of the authors read.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Aeschylus. One play, to vary each year. In connection
with it will be discussed the origin of the drama, the part
of the chorus in the early tragedy and the religious tenets
of Aeschylus. The structure of a Greek tragedy, the
iambic trimeter and the lyric meters will be sufficiently
explained so as to be properly appreciated by the stu-
154
BULLETIN OF THE
dents. Incidentally also the Greek festivals, at which
the plays were staged, and the Dionysiac theater will be
discussed.
Sophocles. Oedipus Tyrannus and Antigone. Digest
of the Theban legends. Religious views of Sophocles
compared with those of Aeschylus.
Elements of Greek Literature. Students shall use
JeWs Primer of Greek Literature.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
%
VII.
Euripides. One play, to vary each year. Religious ten-
dencies of Euripides. His style is compared with that
of Aeschylus and Sophocles. Dramatic art and his right
to the title of “Scenic Philosopher.”
Aristophanes. One play, selected from the following
list: The Acharnians, the Knights, the Frogs, the Clouds,
the Birds, or the Wasps. In connection with the read-
ing of these plays will be treated the Greek comedy,—
its origin, nature, and aim. Aristophanes, the great bur-
lesque critic of Athenian life and manners. The struc-
ture of a comedy compared with that of a tragedy.
Practical Exercises in Greek Composition.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Pindar. Selected Odes, in connection with which the
public games will be studied. Elective.
Greek Fathers. St. Basil. The Martyr Gordius. St.
John Crysostom. The return of Bishop Flavian. St. Greg-
ory Nazianzen. Funeral of Caesarius. Elective.
Plato. Apology and Crito. Socrates—his friends and
enemies. Athenian court proceedings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
155
IX.
Graduate Work in Greek. Advanced courses of in-
struction in the Greek language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who look forward to the
Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work will be
the Greek seminar, devoted to the interpretation of pass-
ages selected for that purpose by the director of the sem-
inar, and to a critical study of one particular author or
of a group of authors in the same department of Greek
literature; as for instance, Homer, Plato or the orators^
the historians, the dramatists, etc.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by lec-
tures on the history of comparative philology, on compar-
ative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
For those who desire a broader basis for their linguis-
tic studies,' an elementary course in Sanskrit will be of-
fered.
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of the
Hellenic world. Readings and examinations on required
texts. This course is given in alternate years with
Course I. (&).
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions. Read-
ings, and examinations of required texts. This course is
given in alternate years with Course I. (a).
In both courses the student is required to become familiar
with the institutions of the ancient world, and to study the
same in De Coulanges’ The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
156
BULLETIN OF THE
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
II.
(a)	The History of the Middle Ages from the in-
vasion of the barbarians, and the history of the periods
of the Renaissance and the Reformation to the French
Revolution. Readings, and examinations on required
texts.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	The General History of Europe from the French
Revolution to the present time. Readings, and examina-
tions on required texts.
[Four hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
III.
The History of the British Isles to the Revolution
in 1869. For the narrative Gardiner's Student's History
is used as a text and is supplemented by lectures. In the
study of the development of political institutions Feilden's
Constitutional History is used. In addition, students shall
make free use of the library in preparing special topics upon
which they will report in class.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY
IV.
(a) American History from Its Beginning to 1763.
A large part of the work of this and the following course
consists in the preparation and presentation in class of
special topics by the students. An effort will be made to
train the student in the use of original sources as well
as in the discriminating use of secondary works. Weekly
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	157
written tests are given upon the lectures and the assigned
collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for one term.]-
(&) American History from 1763 to the Present
Time. Treatment as in (a) above. Also a book review, a
bibliographical report and a biographical essay by each
student.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(c) American Church History from Its Beginning
to the Present Time.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IRISH HISTORY.
(a) Irish History from the' Earliest Colonists to
the Prresent Time. The purpose of the course is to
acquaint the student with the true story of Ireland by pre-
senting a statement of facts. Early Irish religious beliefs,
customs, racial characteristics, systems of government are
discussed, and specific topics are assigned for research work.
(&) • A course of lectures on the modern Celtic move-
ment with a study of the modern Irish writers.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
POLISH HISTORY.
History of the primitive Slavs. The Rise of the Polish
Nation. The Epoch of the Piast-Dynasty (962-1386) ;
The Jagiellonian Epoch (1386-1572) ;
Poland during the rule of the Elector Kings (1572-1795) ;
Poland in its Partitions. From 1795 to the present time.
Polish Emigration.
158
BUWBTIN OF THE
No particular text-book is used in this course« It is a
lecture-course; and the student is required to read up the
principal authors, along the line of the notes gathered from
the lectures in class.
Research Work in History. Facilities are offered to
graduate students who wish to do advanced work in his-
tory leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s degree. Evi-
dence to begin specializing must be given by candidates
who have received their Bachelor’s degree at another Col-
lege. The work is directed in the seminar and is supple-
mented by lectures.
LATIN
I.
Livy. Selections. Study of Livy’s grammar and style.
Cicero. Epistles selected.
Vergil. Aeneid.
Prose Composition. Frequent practice in writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Cicero. De Senectute and De Amicitia.
Pliny. Epistles selected.
Prose Composition. Frequent writing of continuous
prose.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
- III.
Cicero. De Oratore. Book I.
Horace. . Odes and Epodes. Study of metrical system;
peculiarities of styles; plan of composition; comparison with
Odes of a similar nature.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice in
writing. [Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
159
IV.
Tacitus. Dialogus De Oratoribus.
Horace. Odes and Epodes; or, Satires selected. See
Course II.
Terence. Phormio. Short history of Greek and Ro-
man Comedy.
Advanced Prose Composition. Frequent practice in
writing.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Livy. Roman History, First Book. In the reading of
the text particular attention is called to the rules of syn-
tax—roots and derivation of words—and the ancient his-
tory, geology and mythology.
Latin Composition twice a week, either paraphrases or
original. Short fables and stories.
Horace. Epistola ad Pisones translated, analyzed and
criticised from a philological and literary standpoint.
Ancient Literature. Historians and Lyric Poets: their
lives, their works, their genius.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Tacitus. Agricola and Germania. While reading the
text a comparison is made with the private and public
manners of modern nations.
Terence. Andria. Sight reading.
Horace. The Literary Epistles.
Weekly practice in written composition, Latin conver-
sation and versification.
Ancient Literature. Dramatists of Greece and Rome
compared and discussed.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
160
BULLETIN OF THE
VII.
Quintilian. De Institutione Oratoria. Books Tenth and
Twelfth. Translation. The explanation embraces a lit-
erary criticism of Grecian and Roman orators, and prac-
tical remarks on Latin idioms and the fine arts of an-
tiquity.
Short orations or dissertations, and practical conver-
sations take place weekly.
Plautus. Captivi. The study of the play gives a full
knowledge of the characters, the plot, the style, the archaic
forms and the construction peculiar to the author.
Ancient Literature. Orators, especially Demosthenes
and Cicero.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Cicero. De Officiis. Partly sight reading. Besides
the study of the work from a philological standpoint,
the student is made acquainted with the main systems
of Grecian philosophy, and continual reference is made
to Course III. in philosophy.
Oratorical and philosophical composition alternate
weeky. Laan conversations on general topics.
Lucretius. De Rerum Natura. Select passages. Syn-
opsis of the poem. Statement and refutation of erroneous
philosophical systems of antiquity. Analogy with the er-
rors of our day. Style of the writer.
Ancient Literature. Philosophers, particularly Socra-
tes, Plato, Aristotle, Cicero and Seneca.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Graduate Work in Latin. Advanced courses of in-
struction in the Latin language and literature will be pro-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
161
vided for graduate students who are candidates for the
degree of Master or Doctor. The work will be directed
in the seminar and be devoted to a critical study of one
particular author or group of authors.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on comparative philology and comparative
grammar.
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the binomial
thereom, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance, vari-
ables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a
thorough study of the general properties and solution of
equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives, trans-
formation, detached coefficients, surd and imaginary
roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots, biquadratic
equations, DesCartes’ and Cardan's rules; Sturm's
theorem, Horner’s method. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Geometry. This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections; their equations
and properties’; discussion of the general equation of the
second degree containing two variables; different sys-
tems of coordinates; transformation of coordinates; an
elementary course in geometry of three dimensions, em-
bracing the point, straight line, plane and surfaces of
revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric sur-
faces and supplementary propositions. Text-book,
Bailey and Woods.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
162
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
Calculus, Differential. This course as also Courses
IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements of En-
gineering students. It includes a study of the methods
for the differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and ex-
ponential, trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric func-
tions, successive differentiation, and differential coeffi-
cients; treatment of implicit and compound functions;
expansion of functions; indeterminate forms; partial dif-
ferential coefficients of the first order and of higher or-
ders; direction of curvature; radius of curvature; envel-
opes; maxima and minima of functions of one independ-
ent variable, and of several independent variables; trac-
ing curves; differentials of arcs, plane areas, surfaces
and volumes of revolution. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus, Integral. Integration of elementary form
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalization
and by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals;
definite integrals, limits of integration; double integration
applied to plane areas; rectification of plane curves;
quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revolution;
surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equation of a
curve. This course is supplemented by numerous exer-
cises and examples. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for three months.]
*	i
V.
Differential Equations. An elementary course for
Engineering students, supplementary to the course of in-
tegral calculus. It embraces equations of the first order
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	163
and first degree: equations of the first order, but not of
the first degree; singular solutions; linear equations with
constant t coefficients; special forms of equations with
higher orders. Numerous applications to mechanics and
physics are introduced during the course Text-book,
Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Advanced Work. The prescribed courses in pure math-
ematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following advanced
courses are offered, based on standard authors. The
text-books are not necessarily the same every year. The
number of students required to constitute a class in any
one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal,
(b) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock,
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory of Equa-
tions, Burnside and Panton. (>)Advanced Calculus, Bey-
erly, Todhunter, Williamson. (/) Advanced Analytic Geo-
metry, Salmon, (g) Analytic Gepmetery of Three Dimen-
sions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (h) Quaternions, Hardy with
Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
1
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
applications of this preliminary work are -then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condenser, refriger-
164	BULLETIN OF THE
ating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in de-
tail. During the second term a study of the difficult
types of internal combustion engines is made together
with a general study of casts in operating power plants.
Frequent reference is made to trade catalogues, of which
an abundant supply should be obtained by the student.
Text-book,The Steam Engine, by Holmes.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Materials of Engineering. This course, supplemented
by shop work and laboratory work in testing materials
of construction, is designed for the purpose of acquaint-
ing the student with the properties of the material he will
use in his profession. Tensile and shearing strength,
elasticity and resistance are studied, together with the
effects of strain, intermittent loading and impact. The
process of manufacture of the most important materials
is taken up, and estimates of the cost of construction at
market prices complete the work. Text-book, Thurston's
Materials of Engineering/
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Steam Engine Design. In this course the forms and
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines
for specific work are taken up, giving the student a thor-
ough knowledge of constructive detail. The latest re-
searches and contemporary practice may be consulted in
the numerous publications found in the University Li-
brary. During the first term of the Senior year is re-
quired the complete design with working drawings of a
simple non-condensing steam engine for specific purpose.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
165
The second term is given to designing a multiple expan-
sion, jacketed, condensing engine for marine service. The
text-book used is Whitham’s Steam Engine Design.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers. This subject is treated much as that of
Course III. The determination of sizes of parts from
consideration of strains, thickness of shells, size of riv-
ets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of connection
of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces and life of boiler,
are some of the subjects considered. The method of de-
termining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface, heights
of chimneys, boiler settings and materials used in con-
nection are also discussed. Text-book, Steam Boilers by
Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining
of the parts to move in these paths. The general theory
is then applied to cams and gear teeth, the relative .mo-
tion of machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys,
speed cones, link work and other aggregate combina-
tions. Barr’s Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book
used.
[Three hours’ recitation and two hours’ drawing a week for-one
term.]
VI.	"
Machine Design. This work involves a study of the
form and strength of machine parts as applied in design-
ing, with computation of dimensions for fastenings, bear-
166
BULLETIN OF THE
ings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc. The
derivation of rational formulae and the determination of
empirical formulae are included and applied in designing.
The text-books used are Unwin’s Elements of Machine
Design, Low’s Handbook for Mechanical Engineers and
Reed’s Machine Design and Drawing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Valve Gears. This course includes a complete study of
the Bilgram diagram as applied to side valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are
treated in the same way, and in conclusion the student is
made familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text-book is
Halsey’s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory. The work taken up includes
a study of the methods of testing the steam engine un-
der varying running conditions, valve setting, calibration
of thermometers, gauges and indicator springs, use of
Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dynamometers, Pelton
water wheel, Weir calibration, etc. Text-book, Carpen-
ter’s Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Steam Engines and Boilers. A brief course in the
study of boilers and steam engines designed to familiar-
ize the student with the different types in use and their
respective merits. Only that theory is taken up which is
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	167
necessary to the working out of practical problems, the
ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-book,
Power and Power Transmission, by Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extending over
two terms, is given to a general description study of all
the types of gas engines and explosive motors. The gen-
eral construction of gas, oil and vapor engines is studied
together with their adaptation to various uses.
Results due to change in ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid"; methods of speed regulation
and government and the details of auxiliaries as, pumps,
carburettors, hot tubes, batteries, spark coils and dyna-
mos are dwelt upon. The text-book used is Gas, Oil and
Vapor Engines by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the thermody-
namics and design of the gas engine, by text-book, lec-
tures and drawing board. The major subjects taken up
are power, efficiency, economy, forces due to gas pressure
and inertia and dimensions of engine parts. Lucke’s Gas
Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing a week
for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete working up
from the rough castings and forgings of a small type of
gas engine. This is part of the thesis work for students
168
BULLETIN OF THE
in the Short Program and requires the complete ma-
chining and assembling of the engine and must be pre-
ceded by Courses X. and XI.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Laboratory. Indicator practice, commer-
cial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regulation. Ex-
permients in ignition, spark coil construction, carburret-
tors and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed by the
student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
SHOPWORK.
XIV.
(a)	Woodwork. Exercises in planing, splicing, framing,
scroll sawing and turning.
(b)	Application of Carpentry to pattern making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints, cranks
and bearings.
(c)	Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing simple
and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating and pouring
metals for different purposes. Core making.
(J) Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
(e) Benchwork in iron, including surface chipping,
key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
(/) Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shafting and
milling machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers,
taps, twist drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
169
Thesis. Each candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Engineering must present for graduation a thesis of con-
siderable magnitude which will exhibit his knowledge of
the courses he has followed. It may embrace designing,
experimental investigation or original research, in a subject
selected by the student and approved by the professor. The
major part of the second term, Senior year, is devoted to
this work, and graduation is conditional upon the knowl-
edge of mechanical engineering displayed in its preparation.
METALLURGY
I.
Metallurgy. Among the subjects studied in this
course are the following—classification of ores, sampling,
crushing, milling practice, roasting and smelting; the var-
ious extraction processes of the following metals—gold,
silver, copper, lead and zinc, are given special attention;
the production of pig iron in blast furnaces.
A trip of inspection is made to smelting plants, blast
furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order to familiar-
ize the student with metallurgic plants in operation.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
.	II.
Assaying. This course consists of a series of actual de-
terminations of the quality and value of gold, silver and
lead in the various ores by the crucible and scorification
methods of the fire assay; the assaying of gold and silver
bullion; determining the strength of cyanide working solu-
tions ; the assay of gold bearing cyanide solutions; and wet
determinations of copper and zinc.
[Eight hours a week for one term.]
III.-
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assaying
of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book, Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
170
BULLETIN OF THE
MINING ENGINEERING
I.
Mining Engineering, Principles of. This course
includes a general study of Mining operations divided into
the following subjects: Occurrence of minerals in the
earth’s crust, discovery, boring, excavation, supporting ex-
cavations, exploitation, haulage, hoisting, drainage, ven-
tilation, lighting access, ore dressing and treatment. Text-
book, Foster and Brough.
MICROSCOPY
I.
Microscopy. Lectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion of light and illumination. The index
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of lenses.
Spherical and chromatic abberration. The selection and
care of a good microscope. The use of accessories for ad-
vanced work; immersion and adjustable objectives, camera
lucida, sub-stage condenser, polarizer, micrometers, etc.
Special work in photomicrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Micro-Chemistry. Laboratory work. The preparation
of micro-chemical reagents and their application in testing,
fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and mounting tissues
and organs..
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
171
MUSIC
FIRST YEAR.
I.
Violin. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer, Fio-
rillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeB eriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte. Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Hayden, Reinecke and Mo-
zart. Jug end Album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
HI.
Voice Production. Tone placing. Diaphragmatic breath-
control. Articulation. Text-book, Shakespeare’s Art of
Singing, Part I.; Kofler’s Art of Breathing'; Studies by
Bassini, English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Elementary theory of Music.
Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
IV.
Organ. Rink Organ School. Eugene Thayer Studies,
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR
la.
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas,
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
/
11a.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert, Le-
couppy; Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and pieces
172
BULLETIN OF THE
by Mozart, Hayden, Beethoven, Mendelsohn, Schumann,
Schubert.
Illa.
Voice Production. Advanced breathing exercises.
Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke of the
glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing, Parts
IL and III. Studies from Italian operas; French and Eng-
lish songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Phrasing/ punctuation and ad-
vanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IVa.
Organ. Schneider-Warren Pedal Studies. Easy so-
natas by Mendelsohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes,
fugues by Bach. Twenty studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.
Va.
Harmony. Construction and use of chords. Harmoniz-
ing from figured bass. Text-books, Goetshius Tone Rela-
tions; Logier’s Harmony.
THIRD YEAR
lb.
Violin. Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-Al-
ward, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr, Vieux-
temps, Mendelsohn, Dvorak.
lib.
Pianoforte. Gradus ad Parnassum. Clementi-Tausig,
Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and
French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Harberbier and Henselt.
Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven, Weber, Men-
delsohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	173
nib.	.
Voice Production. Study of trill, mordent, gruppetto,
etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb. -
Organ. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome, Whistl-
ing, Best, Rheinberger.
Harmony. Counterpoint. Simple two and four part
counterpoint; double and florid counterpart. Canon, fugue.
FOURTH YEAR
Ic.
Violin. Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Burch, Joachim and others.
lie.
Pianoforte. Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms, Rubin-
stein, Liszt.
IIIc.
Organ. The greater preludes, fantasies and fugues of
Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor, Du-
bois, Guilment and Saint-Saens.
IVc.
Harmony. Composition. Construction of musical forms,
i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical application in an
original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on the viola, flute, piccolo, cor-
net, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
Opportunity's given to the advanced students of play-
ing in the University Orchestra and the University Band.
174
BULLETIN OF THE
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of musical students open only
to those taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir and the
Glee Club are selected from the members of this class.
PHARMACY
I.
Elements of Pharmacy. Lectures and recitations on
the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations of the
various pharmaceutical processes. Text-book, Remington's
Practice of Pharmacy.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy. A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical appli-
cation of the pharmaceutical processes to the manufacture
of official preparations of the United States Pharmacopoeia
and of unofficial and N. F. preparations.
[Five hours a week for twenty-six weeks.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy. Laboratory, demonstrations and
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation and
testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
£
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
General Pharmacy. A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a phar-
maceutical standpoint, followed by a close study of each of
the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
175
Magistral Pharmacy. Includes the manifold methods
of extemporaneous pharmacy, with consideration of in-
compatibility, posology, and the principles of elegant phar-
macy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Pharmaceutical Chemistry. Chiefly assaying, testing
and manufacturing. Determination of melting and boiling
points, and solubilities. Some attention is given, also, to
toilet and commercial preparations with a view to the in-
vention and development of original formulas.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
. VII.
General Pharmacy. Pharmaceutical analysis and assay-
ing, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectroscopic estima-
tions. Incompatibilities and methods of manufacture. Food
analysis.
VIII.
Materia Medica. This work embraces a detailed con-
sideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical definition
and description, constituents, habitat, therapeutic action,
use, dose- and antidote. Attention is given also to mineral
drugs and those of animal origin. They are studied indi-
vidually at first, then in classes or groups.
[Two hours a week for three terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic. This work includes a
study of weights and measures, percentage, relationship
of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alligation and
chemical problems.	.
[Three hours a week for one. term.]
&
176	BULLETIN OF THE
X.
Pharmacognosy. The identification of preparations and
crude drugs by their physical properties with special refer-
ence to quality and detection of adulteration. Attention
is also given to the methods of preventing loss by improper
storage or by the ravages of insects. Important drugs are
studied under the microscope in cross section and in powder
form.	■
[One hour a week for three terms.]
PHILOSOPHY
I.
(a)* Physiological Psychology. This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis of con-
sciousness.
(&)	Experimental and Descriptive Psychology.
The primary laws of consciousness; psycho-physical meth-
ods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b and c are consecutive. Lectures three .
hours a week for two terms.]
(d)	Laboratory Exercises. Experiments will be con-
ducted with special reference to their value as aids to in-
trospection. Sanford's Manual of Experimental Psychology,
Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Vol. I.	.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) Elements of Epistemology. A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teachings
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	177
of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkley, Hume, Kant and
Spencer.
(This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and Gen-
eral Metaphysics and will be given at the beginning of the year
during the time prescribed for these studies.)
(&) Logic. Hyslop's Elements of Logic.
[Two hours each week for two terms.]
(c)	General Metaphysics. Transcendental concepts:
their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(d)	Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(e)	Theodicy. The existence of God; His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(/) Student Discussions-. From time to time through-
out the year students will be required to read and discuss
papers on various subjects in the field of philosophic in-
quiry.
III.
(a) Ethics. The theory of morals, with special ref-
erence to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) Outlines of tfie History of Philosophy.
Turner's History of Philosophy.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
~ IV.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work in
the department of philosophy, leading to the degree of
178
BULLETIN OF THE
Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students who have
pursued the courses described above. Candidates who have
made undergraduate studies elsewhere 'must give evidence
of ability to begin specializing at once. In the first and
second years, research work will be conducted in the seminar
and the psychological laboratory. In the last year, students
will have the benefit of frequent consultation with the pro-
fessors.
PHYSICS
I.
(a) Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by lec-
tures and recitations in which the general laws of mechanics,
heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and magnetism are pre-
sented. The course is intended to meet the needs of those
who desire a general knowledge of the subject, as well as to
lay the foundations for advanced work. Particular atten-
tion is paid to the correct statement of principles, so that
in his advanced work the student will have nothing to un-
learn or relearn. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(&) The Laboratory Work of this course consists of
a series of experiments which verify and apply practically
the fundamental principles of physics. The student also
receives instruction in the use and careful handling of ap-
paratus, accurate observation, and correct deduction of re-
sults. Neat and concise reports of all experiments are kept
by each student and form the basis for the grades in his
work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
179
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more ex-
tended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to physical
phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy in the
mathematical work and in the statements of the principles
involved. Lectures and recitations. Text-book, Crewe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physics. The application of mathematics in physical
work. Measurements of length, mass and time. Work
in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and mag-
netism. The work is done in the laboratory and the student
is taught to depend on his own resources and to check his
results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Special advanced work in heat,
light, mechanics, sound, electricity and magnetism. Accur-
acy in observations and in the calculation and recording of
the results is required. Students may specialize here ac-
cording to the program which they are following. This
course must be preceded by Courses II. and III.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Electrical Measurements. Laboratory practice with
galvanometers, voltmeters, ammeters and wattmeters, resis-
tance work, the relation or equivalence between electric
energy and heat, capacity and inductance, insulation tests.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
180
BULLETIN OF THE
VI.
Calorimetry. Accurate work in laboratory using meth-
ods of mixtures, bomb and other calorimeters in measuring
the calorific value of gaseous and solid fuels, quantitative
measurements of radiation and conduction of heat as ap-
plied to pipe coverings, etc.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
VII.
Research Work. As elected by student in mechanics,
sound, heat, light, electricity and magnetism, or radioactivit-
ies.	[Two to five hours a week for one term.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a)	This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton’s Text-book of Human
Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts and mani-
kins are at hand to facilitate all demonstrations required.
(&)	Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c)	A limited number of microscopical preparations are
required to be made by each student, and he must examine
a set of typical preparations in order to acquire a fair
knowledge of the microscopical structure of the tissues and
organs of the human body.
(d)	During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Three recitations and one laboratory period for two terms.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (d) and may select either (b) or (c).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
181
II.
(a) This course comprises a complete study of human
physiology such as is required of students of medicine. The
lectures, recitations and demonstrations are based upon
Kirk’s Handbook of Physiology and Hall’s Text-book of
Physiology. The student will have free access to a copy
of The American Text-book of Physiology for special ref-
erence.	;
(&) Laboratory work in experimental physiology. The
manual used is Hall’s Experimental Physiology, but the
student will have free access to a number of other similar
works.
[Four recitation hours and two laboratory periods
for tw terms.]
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
I.
The Elements of Economics. A general survey of the
subject based upon the study and discussion of Seager’s
Introduction to Economics. The first part of this course
deals with the fundamental principles of the abstract theory
of economics. The second portion of the work has to do
with the application and exemplification of these principles.
In this connection attention is paid to the subject of money,
credit and banking, the labor movement, monopolies, the
railroad problem, socialism, taxation, and plans of economic
reform. Supplementary readings and reports on current
discussions of these questions form an important part of
the work in this course.
[Four hour, a week for one term.]	•
182
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
Industrial History and the History of Economic
Thought. The work in this course is based on
Ingram’s History of Political Economy, with Ely’s Evolution
of Industrial Society as a supplementary text. After a
resume of the economic ideas of ancient Greece and Rome
and of the medieval period the work is divided into
three sections; the first dealing with the fragmentary notions
preceding Adam Smith and including the latter’s work and
influence; the second period deals with the classical school
of economists, particular attention being paid to the theories
of Malthus, Mill and Ricardo—the dependence of some
of the modern movements on their theories is also shown;
the third period has to do with the latter day economists
and affords a proper preparation for Course HI a. Political
Science I. is a prerequisite for Course II.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
(n) Distribution. Lectures, readings and discussions
on the questions of wages, rent, interest and profits, and the
problems resulting from present notions in regard to these
matters. The text used is The Distribution of Wealth by
Carver, supplemented by readings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) Money, Credit and Banking. This course first
outlines the historical aspect of money and of banking and
then takes up the problems touching on these subjects.
Special attention is paid to the monetary experiences of the
United States and the present reforms under considera-
tion. The text-book used is Money and Banking, by White.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Public Finance. This course begins with a brief his-
tory of the different financial systems. The different kinds
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
183
of government expenditure are discussed, also the sources
of government income. The different methods of taxation
and the proposed reforms in these methods are studied.
Special attention is paid to problems in the United States.
The text-book used is Public Finances by Daniels, or Intro-
duction to Public Finance, by C. C. Phelmn.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLITICS
The Elements of Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics, Lilly.	,
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
American Government and Politics. Text, Actual
Government, Hart.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Jurisprudence. A course covering (a) the outlines of
the Science of Law. (&) The elements of International
Law. (f) Lectures on selected topics of Roman and Canon
Law. Lectures, readings, and examinations on required
texts.
SOCIOLOGY
VIII.
The Elements of Sociology. Text, Elements of Soci-
ology, Giddings.
[Four hours a week for one term.)
184
BULLETIN OF THE
IX.
Graduate Work in Political Economy. Advanced
courses in economics, politics and sociology are provided
for graduate students who wish to receive the degree of
Master or Doctor.
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading knowl-
edge of literary works written in these languages. In the
study, however, of Old French and Provencal, special at-
tention will be paid to philology.
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflection
of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns, the
conjugation of regular and common irregular verbs; the
correct use of moods.and tenses, the essentials of French
syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases. Reading of
three of the following works: La Tache du Petit Pierre,
Mairet; Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La Main Mal-
heureuse, Guerber; Sans Famille, Malot; Readings from
French History, Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Dictations and conversations on practical
topics, and careful reading of five of the following works:
Le Voyage de M. Perrichon,.Labiche; Roman d'un Jeune
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
185
Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables Choisies, La Fontaine;
Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere; Le Cid, Corneille; Esther,
Racine; Pages oubilees de Chateaubriand; La Question
d’Argent, Dumas; Standard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours8 a week for two terms.]
III.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes compo-
sition, conversation, history and general view of French lit-
erature ; besides a translation and criticism of the best writ-
ers, such as: Causeries du Lundi, Ste, Beuve; On Rend I'
Argent, Coppee; Hemani, Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine;
Athalie, Racine; L’Avare, Moliere; Mlle, de la Seigliere,
Sandeau; Les Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine;
Expedition de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth
de Hongrie, Montalembert; Historic de la Litterature Fran-
caise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the same
every year.
SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition. Trans-
lation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero, Perez
Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego, and Irate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and nineteenth
centuries, with composition and the history of the literature
of the period.	. .
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
186
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
Literature. of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries;
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the litera-
ture of the period, with essays in-Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Early Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the lit-
erature of the fifteenth century.
ITALIAN
A two years’ course. The chief work of the courses is
a critical study of Dante’s Divina Commedia. Reading
from Tasso, Ariosto3 s Satires and Manzoni.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
POLISH
I.
Polish Language and Literature. Grammar {Mat-
ecki3s Part I.} Etymology. Exercises in spelling and read-
ing.	.	.
Grammar, Part II. Syntax. Exercises in Composition.
Short essays.
II.
Rhetoric. {Galle’s Text-book}. Essays. Study of
Essays in Models {Krasnowilski3 s Handbook}.
III.
Literature. The History of Polish Literature. Part 1.
From the beginning to the era of Adam Mickiewicz. {Hand-
book-. Tarnowski-Procknicki}.
IV.
Literature. The History of Polish Literature. Part
IL From Adam Mickiewicz to the present time. {Hand-
book-. Tarnoivski-Prochnicki}. Essays.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	187
PORTUGUESE
I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, Wall. Readings:
Perhl do marques de Pombal, Camillo Castello Branco;
Novelhas Historic as, Pinheiro Chagas; Lendas e narrativas,
Herculano ; Campo de floras, Joao de Deus.
' [Five hours a week for two terms.]
IL
Sermoes, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Camoes.
History of Portuguese literature.
OLD FRENCH
Special attention will be paid to the laws underlying
the formation of the French language from the popu-
lar Latin. For this purpose a work like Bracket's
Grammaire Historique will be studied. It is under this
point of view that the Old French authors will be read, es-
pecially La Chanson de Loland.
PROVENCAL
Language and literature, with reading from the works
of the Troubadours.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
ZOOLOGY
I.
This course comprises:
(a) Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based upon
Nicholson’s Text-book of Zoology.
(&) Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker’s Elementary Course in Biology.

188	BULLETIN OF THE
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined in
Pratt’s Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker’s Biology.
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of one
or two types of skeletons belonging to each order of mam-
malia. The work is outlined in Kirsch’s Elementary Course
in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for first term;
three recitation hours and three laboratory
periods for second term.]
IL
This course comprises:
(a) Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based upon
Hertvuig’s Manual of Zoology.
(&) Laboratory work upon some Invertebrata in order
to complete and supplement the work under (c) in Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one of two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrata, viz: fish, frog,
newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used is Pratt’s
Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with reference
to the cat as outlined in Davison’s Mammalian Anatomy.
(^) An outline of comparative Embryology of animals.
Text-book, Packard and Foster and Balfour.

PREPARATORY SCHOOL
s
190
BULLETIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. PATRICK J. CARROLL, C. S. C,
English.
Rev. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Science.
Rev/PATRICK J. DALTON, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. WALTER J. LAVIN, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. DAVID PATRICK O’LEARY, C. S. C.,
History and Civics.
Rev. JOHN FARLEY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C,
Physics.
Mr. ALOYSUIS A. WEISBECKER, C. S. C.,
German and English.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
191
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography, Typewriting.
Bro. NICHOLAS, C. S. C.,
Telegraphy.
Bro. GEORGE, C. S. C.,
French.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
JOSEPH A. REIS,
Greek and Latin.
JOHN F. O’HARA,
Spanish.
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S„
Drawing and Science.
JOSEPH CALLAHAN, A. B., LL. B.,
History and Commercial Law.
FRANCIS ZINK, A. B.,
Greek and Latin.
WILLIAM E. FARRELL, A. B.,
English and History.
GEORGE N. SPIESS, A. B.,
English and Elocution.
192
BULLETIN OF THE
JAMES F. HINES, Ph. B,
Mathematics.
WLUMKM C. SCHMITT, C. E.,
Mathematics.
THOMAS ALOYSIUS HEALY,
Grammar and Arithmetic.
CHARLES ROACH,
Chemistry.
DANIEL R. FOLEY, A. B.,
Mathematics.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
193
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Prepara-
tory School under the same general government as the
Colleges, but having its own special corps of instructors.
The schedules of studies are arranged to meet the need
of thorough preparation for collegiate work, and embrace
courses which, while giving as wide an education as can
be obtained in the very best High Schools, prepare stu-
dents directly for the group of studies they may elect
when entering the Freshman year. Four different pro-
grams of instruction are offered to students, each con-
taining such special courses as directly meet the needs of
the eighteen college groups, while all embrace common
subjects which are indispensably necessary in acquiring
a fairly liberal education. The period of instruction cov-
ers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Prepara-
tory School are most complete. The laboratories are ex-
tensive and fully supplied with the latest improved ap-
pliances. The classes pursuing any subject are divided
into sections, each containing a limited number of stu-
dents. The sections are purposely limited in order that
each student may receive close attention from the in-
structor in every recitation and laboratory period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening
of the School in September and embrace the subjects
completed in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be found
on pages 34, 35 and 36. The following fees are special
to the Preparatory School:
LABORATORY FEES
Science C.—Elementary Botany ....................$	2.50
Science D.—Elementary Zoology................... 2.50
Science E.—Elementary Chemistry................. 5.00
Science F.—Elementary Physics .................. 5.00
194
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE DEPART-
MENT OF CLASSICS IN THE COLLEGE
OF ARTS AND LETTERS
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: ’First Term:	Hrs. a Week	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Week	Course
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	• D
SECOND YEAR					
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
Greek	5	A	Greek	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	5	B	History	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Government	5	A
THIRD YEAR.
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
Greek	5	B	Greek	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	5	C	History	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
English German or	5	D	English German or	5	D
French	5	A	French	5	A
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
195
Studies Preparatory for the Department of Letters and
the Department of History and Economics in
the College of Arts and Letters.
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: Fibst Teem	Hrs. a Week	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Tebm	Hrs. a Week	Course
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR.
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
French or German	5	A	French or German	’ 5	A
English	5	B	English	5	3
History	5	B	History	5	1 B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Government	5	A.
THIRD YEAR.
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
French or			French or		
German	5	B	German	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	5	c	History	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
FOURTH YEAR.
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	J)
French or			French or		
German	4	C	German	4	c
English	5	D	English	5	D
German or			German or		
French*	5	A	French*	5	A
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	_	5	F	Science	5	F
* Students who begin French A in the second year must be-
gin German A in the fourth year.
196
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGE
OF SCIENCE
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Week	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term '	Hrs. a Week	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
History	5	A	History	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Government	5	A
History	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
THIRD YEAR.
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	5	C	History	5	C
FOURTH YEAR.
English	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	s	F	Science	5	F
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	■ 5	F
Drawing	3	A	Drawing	3	B
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	197
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGES
OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Week	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Week	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	A	■History	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
^German	5	A	German	5	A
SECOND YEAR.
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Government	5	A
History .	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	* C
German	5	B	German	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	c	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
History	. 5	C	History	5	C
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
German	4 $	C	German	4	C
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
Drawing	3	A	Drawing	3	B
Science-	5	F	Science	5	F
* French or Spanish may be substituted for German.
198
BULLETIN OF THE
PREPARATORY COURSES
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
This is a study of the science of government in connec-
tion with American institutions, and is intended to give
the student some knowledge of the general principles of
government and of the American Constitution. The sub-
ject begins by defining government; then is considered
the object and necessity of government; origin of civil
society; the principle of suffrage; different forms of gov-
ernment defined and compared; theories of representa-
tion. These topics necessarily are treated briefly, as the
principal part of the course consists of a study of the
Colonial government, the Articles of Confederation and
their defects, the formation of the Constitution and its
adoption. The study further comprises a critical analy-
sis of each article and section of the American constitu-
tion, thus enabling the student to acquire a clear concep-
tion of the division of powers of the National Govern-
ment and the duties and responsibilities of each depart-
ment. Text-book, Government by State and Nation, by
James and Sanford.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
DRAWING.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and the
eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of va-
rious forms.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
199
B.
Course in Lettering, in pencil and in pen and ink, prepara-
tory to Drawing I. in the Engineering Programs. A suf-
ficient number of plates must be made by each student to
prove his fitness for Drawing I.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH
(a) Review of Grammar. Elementary Composition.
Daily exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(&) The elements of versification. Scansion, one hour
a week. Weekly exercises in writing verse. Memory
work.
(c) Required reading: Robinson Crusoe, *Evan;ge-
line, Treasure Island, Snow-Bound, *The Sketch Book,
*The Vision of Sir Launfal, Poe’s Tales, Poe’s Poems,
*Julius Caesar, *The Merchant of Venice.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
(a)	Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part I., with daily
exercises in class. Two themes a week.
(b)	The simpler verse forms. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c)	Required reading: Ivanhoe, *The Lady of the
Lake, *The Vicar of Wakefield, *The Ancient Mariner,
The Courtship of Miles Standish, *Silas Marner, *The
Princess, *Macbeth, *As You Like It.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
200
bulletin of the
c.
(c) Hill’s Principles of Rhetoric, Part IL, with daily
exercises in class. Weekly theme first term; fortnightly
essay second term.
(&) Verse forms continued. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(c) Required reading: *Sir Roger de Coverly, *Ma-
caulay’s Essay on Addison, *The Golden Treasury of Eng-
lish Lyrics, ^Macaulay’s Essay on Milton, ^Miltons Minor
Poems, *A Midsummer Night’s Dream, ^Burke’s Speech
on the Conciliation of America, '^Webster’s Bunker Hill
Oration, ^Lincoln’s Gettysburg Oration, *King Lear.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
(a) English and American Literature.
(&) Review of Composition and Rhetoric, with daily
exercises in class. Fortnightly essay first term; monthly
essay second term.
(c)	Verse forms concluded. Weekly exercises. Mem-
ory work.
(d)	Required reading: The House of the Seven Gables,
*The Idylls of the King, Selections from Paradise Lost,
Cary’s Dante, ^Gate’s Selections from Newman, *The
Dream of Gerontius, Pope’s Homer, *The Tempest, Aubrey
de Pere’s Poems, and *Hamlet.
(The works marked with an asterisk are to be studied; the others
read.)
There will be assigned readings from Catholic authors in each
of the four years of English.
[Five hours a week for, two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
201
FRENCH
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflection
of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns, the
conjugation of regular and the common irregular verbs;
the correct use of moods and tenses, the essentials of French
syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases. Frazer and
Squair’s Grammar. Reading three of the following: La
Tache du Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de Conscience,
Gervais; La Main Malheureuse, Guerber; Sans Famille,
Malot; Super’s Readings from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of idioms,
memorizing. Frazer and Squair’s Grammar. Dictations
and conversations are added on practical topics and careful
translation made of five of the following works: Le Voyage
de M. Perrichon, Labiche; Roman d’un. Jeune Homme
Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables choisies, La Fontaine; Le Me decin
Malgre Lui, Moliere; Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine;
Pages oubliees de Chateaubriand; La Question d’ Argent,
Dumas; Standard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
c.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the prose
and poetry of the nineteenth century and includes composi-
tion, conversation, history and general view of French lit-
erature. Besides a reading and criticism of the best writ-
ers, such as: Causeries du Lundi, Ste. Beuve; On Rend I’
202
BULLETIN OF THE
Argent, Cop pee; Hemani, Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine;
Athalie, Racine; L’Av are, Moliere; Mlle, de la Siegliere,
Sandeau; Les Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine;
Expedition de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth
de Hongrie, Montalembert; Historic de la Litterature Fran-
casise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the same
every year.
GREEK
Grammar Etymology, Goodell.
Lessons for Beginners, Morris and Goodell.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part I., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two* terms.]
B.
Grammar Etymology reviewed and Syntax begun.
Goodell.
Xenophon. Anabasis, Four Books, Smith.
Composition. Based on the Anabasis.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part II., Stoffel,
t.	33
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
c.
Grammar. Completed.
Xenophon. Selections from Memorabilia.
Prose Composition.
Homer, Iliad, Six Books, Seymour.
Epitome of the New Testament, Part III., Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	203
GERMAN
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems,
simple prose; translation of English exercises into German.
Reading of short stories and selections from more difficult
prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.,]
B.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of narra-
tive prose and selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems, and
prose writings. Translation of selections from history and
literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; best known poems, Heine;
Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
Ancient History. Myers’ Ancient History. The East-
ern Nations. The History of Greece and of the Empire of
Alexander. The Story of Rome. The Establishment of
the Empire, and the rise of Christianity. The Roman-Ger-
man, or Transition Age.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
204
BULLETIN OF THE
B.
Medieval History. Myers3 Medieval History, The
Barbarians and their Kingdoms. Mohammedanism and the
Saracen Caliphs. The Holy Roman Empire. The Age
of Revival. The Empire and the Papacy. The Great Schism
and the rise of the Nations of Modern Europe.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
i
c.
Modern History. Myers3 Modern Age. The Renais-
sance. The Age of Discovery. The Protestant Reforma-
tion. The Power of Spain and Germany. The Age of
Louis XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish and Aus-
trian Successions. The Empire of England. The American
Revolution. The French Revolution and the Wars of Na-
poleon. The Revolutions and the Spirit of Nationality.
The formation of Germany and Italy.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
LATIN.
Grammar. Etymology, Bennett.
Exercises. First Year Latin, Collar and Daniels.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Review of Etymology, Syntax, Bennett.
Caesar. Books I.—IV.
Prose Composition. Based on Caesar.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	205
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett.
Nepos. Selected Lives.
Sallust. Catiline.
Cicero. Orations I.—III., against Catiline.
Prose Composition. Based on authors read.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar. Complete review.
Cicero. Three orations including Pro Lege Manilia.
Ovid. Metamorphoses.
Vergil. Aeneid, six books. The explanations cover
peculiarity of syntax, figures, mythology.
Prosody. Study of hexameter verse.
Prose Composition. Based on Cicero.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
MATHEMATICS
Algebra. This course for beginners in Algebra includes
a study of the primary fundamental principles necessary
to the courses which follow. The subjects dwelt upon in
particular are factoring, highest common factor and least
common multiple, which are afterward applied in their re-
lation to Fractions and the reduction of Complex Fractions.
In as far as possible, concrete examples of their applications
to kindred scientific subjects are applied by the teacher.
Text-book, Wentworth" s School Algebra.
.[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Algebra. In this course the study of equations is begun
and continued through equations of the first degree. Frac-
206
BULLETIN OF THE
tional equations, systems of simultaneous equations, in-
volution, radicals and exponents complete the course,
which is supplemented whenever possible with problems
of practical application. Text-book, Wentworth's School
Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.] ’
c.
Algebra. This course begins with quadratic equations,
pure and affected, followed by systems of simultaneous
quadratic equations and those forms of radical equations
of higher degree which may be solved by quadratic meth-
ods. Ratio and proportion, indeterminate equations,
surds, imaginaries, inequalities, the progressions and the
binomial theorem finish the work in this couse. As in
the preceding courses, special stress is placed upon the
application of the theory to such examples as will show
its application to elementary scientific subjects. Text-
book, Wentworth's College Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Geometry. This subject is completed as far as the end
of plane geometry and includes a study of the theorems
with proofs of exercises and original propositions. The
habit of independent thinking is cultivated to some ex-
tent by the solution of special problems of a concrete na-
ture intended to exhibit the relation of the process stud-
ied to practical examples. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
E. a
a
Geometry. The study of solid geometry is taken up in
this term, the course being an extension of that of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
207
preceding course-. Planes, solid angles, polyhedrons, the
cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied in detail and
the solution of original exercises and propositions of ap-
plication is made a feature of the course. Text-book,
W entworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Trigonometry. A half year is given to this subject
which includes both plane and spherical trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of the
elementary text-books. Special attention is given to
goniometry on account of its application to calculus, and
examples of a concrete nature are abundantly supplied.
Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
SCIENCE
Physical Geography. An introductory and elementary
study of the earth and its environments. The student
will be led into a closer sympathy with the world about
him. The various types of plant and animal life, together
with topographical and climatic conditions will be con-
sidered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology. Lectures, recitations and demonstrations
with the stereopticon. The study of the human skeleton
including the physiology and hygiene of the bones. The
action, relation, structure and hygiene of muscles. The
digestive, circulatory and excretory systems demon-
208
BULLETIN OF THE
strated by models and charts. The anatomy and struc-
ture of the nervous system and simple experiments on
the same. Text-book, Martin’s Human Body.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Botany. This course is designed for beginners in this
subject; it includes a study of the higher plants with
reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower and seed.
An introduction to the lower forms of plant life and their
classification is also given. Text-book, Bastian’s Elements
of Botany.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Zoology. This course includes an introduction to the
subject with studies of representative forms and their
classification in the different groups of the animal king-
dom. The subject is taught by recitations and laboratory
work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
(a) Chemistry. An introductory course of experi-
mental lectures on familiar subjects such as water, the
air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up to
discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena of
chemistry. Text-book, Remsen’s Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(&) Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory course
to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises to be
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
209
performed by each student, and having as their main ob-
ject the cultivation of the student’s powers of observa-
tion and faculty of inductive reasoning. These exercises
comprise a study of the principal metallic elements, in-
cluding their preparation, properties and more familiar
compounds. The directions for each experiment are
made as brief as possible; the observation of facts and
the drawings of correct conclusions therefrom being left,
so far as the nature of the experiment will permit, to the
student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
Physics. Introduction in elementary physics is given
by lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and mag-
netism are presented. The course is intended to meet
the needs of those who desire a general knowledge of
the subject, as well as to lay the foundation for advanced
work. Particular attention is paid to the correct state-
ment of principles so that in his advanced work the stu-
dent will have nothing to unlearn or relearn. Text-book,
Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
Laboratory Work of this nature consists of a series of
60 experiments which verify and apply practically the
fundamental principles of physics. The student also re-
ceives instruction in the use and careful handling of ap-
paratus, accurate observation, and correct deduction of
results. Neat and concise reports of all experiments are
kept by each student and form the basis for the grades
in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
210
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COMMERCIAL HIGH SCHOOL
The Commercial School is designed to fuse with the or-
dinary High School or preparatory program of studies,
a special preparation for the processes of modern commer-
cial life. Accordingly, the commercial program consists
of a selection of the more important subjects in the High
School curriculum to which are added the classes and ex-
perimental facilities found in a complete and up-to-date
commercial college.
Owing to conditions specially favorable to study, Notre
Dame claims to give the students of this school a more
complete business training than can be obtained in any
purely commercial college. The authorities require that
students taking this program shall have completed two years
of a regular High School or its equivalent. Special arrange-
ments, however, will be made for young men who have no
High School training, but who may have had practical
business or office experience. Such students may follow
the courses of this program of studies but will not be con-
sidered candidates for degrees. A certificate stating the
field covered by their studies will, however, be presented
to them. Graduates of High Schools or equivalent prepara-
tory schools will ordinarily be able to complete the work
of this program in one year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
211
COMMERCIAL PROGRAM *
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hours a Week	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hours a Week	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	A	History	5	A
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	B
SECOND YEAR.
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Govern’t	5	A
History	5	B	History	5	B
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
THIRD YEAR.
English	5	C	English	5	C
Bookkeeping	5	A	Bookkeeping	5	2^
Phonography	5	A	Phonography	5	A
Arithmetic	5	A	Arithmetic	5	B
Typewriting	5		Typewriting	5	A
Penmanship	2		Penmanship	2	
FOURTH YEAR.
English	5	D	English	5	D
Bookkeeping	5	B	Bookkeeping	8	C
Phonography	5	B	Phonography	5	B
Commerce	2	A	Commerce	2	A
Typewriting	3	B	Typewriting	3	B
Orthography	5	A	Com. Law	5	A,
a Students who do not take Phonography will take up Plane
Geometry the third year and Physics the fourth year.
* First and second year or equivalent required for entrance
in Commercial work.
212
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
ARITHMETIC.
A.	Percentage; ratio and proportion; as far as in-
volution and evolution.
B.	Percentage, ratio and proportion (reviewed);
involution and evolution; arithmetical and geometrical
series: higher percentage; mensuration; arithmetical an-
BOOKKEEPING.
A.	Preparatory instruction and definitions; initiatory
sets by Double Entry; retailing by Double Entry; special
practice in writing business papers and business forms.
Single Entry; changing Single to Double Entry.
..A jSI.-IUGJ
**•
B.	Retailing; wholesaling; shipping and commission;
jobbing; manufacturing; installment and state agencies;
joint stock companies; banking.
C.	Business Practice and Office Work. Introducing
Loose Leaf Accounting, Card Ledger Accounting, Loose
Leaf and Sales Book, and the Voucher System of Book-
keeping.
COMMERCIAL LAW.
A. Text-book, Huff cut’s Elements of Business Laws.
HISTORY OF COMMERCE.
A. Lectures and assigned topics.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
213
ORTHOGRAPHY.
A. Orthography and Business English.
PENMANSHIP.
PHONOGRAPHY.
A.	Isaac Pitman’s Short Course in Phonography.
B.	Speed Class.
TYPEWRITING.
A.	The Van Sant System of Touch Typewriting.
B.	Speed Class. Mimeograph and Hektograph work.
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined above
are equivalent to those of a High School. There is also
a Junior Preparatory Department in which are taught all
the branches of a Grammar School,—the students having
every opportunity for preparing themselves as rapidly as
possible for High School work.
214
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
For the care and training of boys under the age of
thirteen years, there has been established a primary school
to which the most scrupulous attention has always been
paid by the authorities of the University—it is known
as St. Edward’s Hall.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here im-
parted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of Latin,
French and German and Algebra. Vocal Music and
Drawing involve no extra charge. The pupils of this
department are taught by Sisters of Holy Cross.
r
DISCIPLINE
The following is the order of the day: Rising at
6:30 a. m., toilet, etc., seven, breakfast, afer which there
is a short time given to exercise on the campus; eight,
study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes and study;
a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner, followed by
recreation; half-past one, classes and study; three, recre*
ation and luncheon; half-past four, classes and study; a
quarter to six, toilet; six, supper and recreation; half-past
eight, retiring. . From this it may be seen that while the
Minims devote almost seven hours a day to study, they
are never more than two hours in succession in the class-
room. The recreation and exercise in the fresh air after
each period of study, unbend the mind and prepare the
boys to return to their classes refreshed and ready to
work.
The Minims are always under supervision during the
hours of recreation as well as as in the class-room and
the study-hall. The presence, however, of the prefect is
far from being a restraint on the amusement of the boys;
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
215
for while it is the duty of the prefects to insist that their
young charges shall always keep within the limits of the
strictest propriety, they at the same time take part in
all sports, organize games, and do everything in their
power to foster the love for exercise. The playground is
a broad level, eight-acre field, well supplied with turning
poles, swings, ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other
necessary gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make
good use of them can be seen from their healthy, happy
appearance, which invariably attracts the notice of visit-
ors. Connected with the playground is a brick play-hall,
one-hundred and sixty feet long and heated by steam. In
this hall the boys play in rainy or cold weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and mend
the clothing: see to all the needs and to the comfort and
convenience of the Minims. Baths are taken every few
days. Underclothing is changed regularly. Great care
is taken that the boys be neatly dressed, and that the
clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES
There are two societies in the Minim Department, that
of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which has for
its object to supply servers, for the Chapel services, and
the Sorin Association, which has been established with
a view to give the pupils a start, as early as possible, in
elocution. The society is presided over by one of the
professors, who finds it a pleasant duty to draw out the
talent of these interesting young orators. Meetings are
held once a week, after school hours. These meetings
are a source of pleasure as well as of profit. The mem-
bers prepare original compositions, deliver declamations,
are trained to debate, etc. Only the best behaved and
more advanced in studies are admitted to membership.
216
BULLETIN OF THE
To encourage this young literary society, a gold medal
for elocution is annually awarded at Commencement to
the most deserving member.
GENERAL REMARKS
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to students more
advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had to pun-
ishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern by kind-
ness and gentleness, and by appealing to the boys’ sense
of honor.
There are gold medals awarded at the end of two
full years to those whose deportment has been un-
exceptionable during that period. As this fact is made
known to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he
generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view to
receiving an Honor. The greatest care is taken to form
their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to inculcate
the practice of refined manners. Every effort is made
to foster respect and affection for parents, to whom they
are expected to write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the Min-
ims is their complete separation from the older students.
A commodious building, known as St. Edward’s Hall,
affording ample accommodations for over one hundred
pupils, is devoted to their use. It is four stories in
height, one-hundred and fifty feet long, and forty-five
feet wide, heated by steam, supplied throughout with
electric light, and provided with hot and cold water.
The ceiling in the study-hall, class-rooms and sleeping
apartments is fifteen feet high. The windows are large and
numerous, affording abundant light and ventilation. The
study-hall commands a charming view from each end of
its eleven large windows. It is tastefully decorated with
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	217
statuary, pictures, plants, etc. Besides the pleasure the
Minims derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall,
their tastes are cultured by coming into contact with objects
so refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park,
which, with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not
a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well as to the
happiness of its pupils.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy pa-
rents and others who frequently write for more detailed
information, will show that, while the Minims have every
advantage to aid them in acquiring a foundation for fu-
ture study, they have a home, where they enjoy the
same ease and freedom that they would enjoy under the
care of their mothers. For further information regard-
ing the School for Minims apply for a special catalogue.
EXPENSES
(For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.)
Matriculation Fee (first year only)...................$ 10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bedding,
etc., per school year............................ 250.00
Payable in advance as follows:
First Payment,—On Entrance .in September.
Matriculation Fee .................................... 10.00
Board and Tuition...................................... 5.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery	Account............... 150.00
Gymnasium ............................................. 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course	Ticket...................... 1.00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second Payment,—On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition.........................$100.00
218
BULLETIN OF THE
The charge for lessons on piano, violin, guitar or man-
dolin, and the use of the instrument, is fixed at $50.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been ren-
dered.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits of
underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or caps,
two pairs of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits of
clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap, and
a hand mirror. This direction concerning clothing is a
suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above sup-
plies can be procured through the Ctudents’ Office at the
University.
LIST OF STUDENTS
220
BULLETIN OF THE
*
LIST OF STUDENTS -
Matriculated During the Scholastic Year from
September, 1909 to June, 1910.
Amondrain, Ignacio .............Argentine, South America
Arias, Manuel Fernando................................Cuba
Adams, Denis......................................Illinois
Adams, John Joseph................................Illinois
Armstrong, Harry Joseph............................Illinois
Amadeus, B......................................  Illinois
Attley, George Emmet ...........................  Illinois
Arrington, Norman' Joy............................Illinois
Andreas, Lucius B..................................Indiana
Anthony, B.........................................Indiana
Arnold, Wm. Simpson..........................Massachusetts
Arteaga, Edward	..............................Mexico
Aguirre, Andreas	Baca............................Mexico
Arellano, Lorenzo Justininia........................Mexico
Alvarez, Domingo	..............................Mexico
Aldrete, Antonio,	Jr...............................Mexico
Allen, Henry Harding..............................Michigan
Arthur, Esmond Russell............................Michigan
Anderson, Frank Albert................................Ohio
Adriansen, Joseph Willebrord.....................Wisconsin
Austin, B........................................Wisconsin
Burns, James Howard...............................Illinois
Barsaloux, Paul Keely.............................Illinois
Bergner, John Velde...............................Illinois
Bradley, Tobias Edward............................Illinois
Bell, John William................................Illinois
Boldt, August Herbert.............................Illinois
Broad, Mark Charles...............................Illinois
Burke, Thomas Joseph..............................Illinois
Burke, William Joseph.............................Illinois
Binz, Gustav Harder...............................Illinois
Bowles, John Hense............................... Illinois
Byrth, Roy D. James.........................'......Illinois
Bear, Charles Andrew..............................Illinois
Brady, Wade James.................................Illinois
Brunsman, Sebastian Andrew........................Illinois
Barbazette, Leon Francis...........................Indiana
*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
221
Burt, Edgar Henkel...............................Indiana
Boelke, Henry Wm.................................Indiana
^-Brzezinski, Vincent Florian......................Indiana—
Berner, Leo Sebastian............................Indiana
^Buczkowski, Jno. Stanislaus.......................Indiana——
Bergman, Alfred Henry............................Indiana
Belle, Michael ................................;. Indiana
Butler, John Patrick.............................Indiana
Buckley, Leo Thomas..............................Indiana
Buckley, Arthur Bernard..........................Indiana
Brady, Lawrence Wm..................................Iowa
Bamberg, Julius	Peter*.............................Iowa
Brennan, Martin	Joseph.............................Iowa
Breen, Maurice	John...............................Iowa
Becker, Michael	Stanley.......................Louisiana
Bracho, Jose......................................Mexico
Boos, Francis Holgate...........................Michigan
Begin, Charles Herbert..........................Michigan
Boucher, Fred Joseph............................Michigan
Burns, John Thomas..............................Michigan
Burke, John Clarence...........................Minnesota
Bensberg, William Joseph........................Missouri
Bogy, Bernard Pratt.............................Missouri
Byrne, Thos. J., Jr.............................Missouri
Bollin, Walter Scott............................Missouri
Bruce, Edward Miles.............................Missouri
Balensiefer, Harold Joseph.......................Montana
Barclay, Francis Arthur..........................Montana
Beechinor, Robert Denhing...................... New	York
Briggs, John .................................  New	York
Bergfeld, Elliott William.......................New	York
Byrne, Paul Ryan................................New	York
Brady, William Henry............................New	York
Birder, Cecil Edward.......................North Dakota
Birder, Jacob Vivian ......................North Dakota
Baader, Ernest John.................................Ohio
Burkhard, Sylvester Jerome..........................Ohio
Brengartner, Elmer Joseph...........................Ohio
Boyle, William......................................Ohio
Byrnes, Francis ....................................Ohio
Beadles, Walter Matthews........................Oklahoma
Bannon, John Mackin.........................Pennsylvania
Brislin, John Jerome.......'................Pennsylvania
Biter, Francis Edward.......................Pennsylvania
Barker, John Anthony........................Pennsylvania
Brophy, James Armond..........................Rhode	Island
Burns, Chas. Hugh..................................Texas
Broussard, Clyde Eloi..............................Texas
Buskirk, Randolph Joseph...................West Virginia
Brooks, Christopher Francis ...................Wisconsin
'	■ "A
222
BULLETIN OF THE
Burke, James Warren......................Wisconsin
Bolin, Henry Joseph........................Wyoming
Barry, Patrick Arthur....................  Vermont
Cox, Louis Charles....................................  Canada
Cortes, Scipion Felipe..................Chili, South America
Cortes, Felipe Victor...................Chili, South America
Clay, Archibald ......................................Colorado
Cahill, James Lee.....................................Illinois
Condon, Leo James.....................................Illinois
Cleary, Leo John......................................Illinois
Coppinger, Lucian Biggins................»............Illinois
^Cahill, James Francis.....................................  Illinois
Cooke, Charles Francis......................................Illinois
Corboy, Leo Joseph..........................................Illinois
Corboy, Raymond Michael...............................Illinois
Cagney, Harry Louis...................................Illinois
Clarke, Thomas Alexander..............................Illinois
Clarke, George Walker.................................Illinois
Clement, B............................................Illinois
Cunningham, Geo. Thompson................................Illinois
Cagney, John Albert......................................Illinois
Cagney, Leroy ...........................................Illinois
Cagney, Walter ........................................  Illinois
Case, William Denning....................................Illinois
Carey, Eugene ...........................................Illinois
Conway, Richard Francis..................................Illinois
Cyzio, Stanislaus Casimir................................Illinois
Comerford, Dean .....................................Illinois
Cosgrove, Malachy Aloysius...........................Illinois
Cotter, William Edward...............................Illinois
Cleary, Thomas.......................................Illinois
Cauley, Stephen Vincent..............................Illinois
Cusack, Harold Thomas................................Illinois
Coyne, George Leo....................................Illinois
Clark. Owen...........................................Indiana
Costello, John William................................Indiana
Centlivre, Clarence John..............................Indiana
Carroll, Frederick William............................Indiana
Coffeen, Walter Henry.................................Indiana
r-—»Czyzewski, Stephen Anthony..........................  Indiana
Coffey, Raymond Thomas...................................Iowa
Cosgrove, Hugh .....................................Iowa
Carrico, William Elbert.........................Kentucky
Connelly, Eugene Edward....................Massachusetts
Collins, ‘Joseph James.....................Massachusetts
Courtney, James ...........................Massachusetts
Crowley, Francis Patrick...................Massachusetts
Cobo, Alfredo  ..................................  Mexico
Couttolenc, Louis .................................Mexico
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Cortazar, Julius ...................................Mexico
Cortazar, Enrique ..................................Mexico
Cartier, Warren Ray...............................Michigan
Cartier, Morgan Edward............................Michigan
Cody, Wm. Francis.................................Kentucky
Culligan, Janies Edward...........................Michigan
Culligan, Terrence Michael........................Michigan
Cullen, Harry Walter..............................Michigan
Carolan, James Slavin.............................Michigan
Callahan, James ..................................Michigan
Currie, Clarence Joseph...........................Michigan
Clark, Robert Emmett.............................Minnesota
Clark, Malachy Daniel..........................Minnesota
Campbell, Francis Bartley........................Montana
Curran, Cyril Joseph..........................New York
Cooke, Arthur John............................New York
Courcier, Lawrence John.............................Ohio
Cusick, Dwight Paul...................................Ohio
Carroll, Homer Peter..................................Ohio
Campbell, John Joseph...............................Oregon
Cunning, Patrick Henry........................Pennsylvania
Caceres, Frederico..........:........ Peru,	South America.
Cardenas, Jose Antonio...............Peru,	South America
Concha, Manuel Francisco.............Peru,	South America
Corasao, Alberto ................-...Peru,	South America
Connell, James Joseph........................Rhode	Island
Connolly, Louis Parkham........................Tennessee
Cartwright, Marcus ............................Tennessee
Cox, Alpha Gere...............................Washington
Coffman, Harry Stringer........................Wisconsin
Carey, William Arthur................».........Wisconsin
De Lunden, Charles Leon..............................Belgium
Dela Guardia, Salustiano................................Cuba
Donovan, Paul Joseph................................Illinois
Delana, Edw. Keenan.................................Illinois
Devine, John Francis, Jr............................Illinois
Duncan, Walter Joseph...............................Illinois
Doonan, Edward Joseph...............................Illinois
Dean, John Richmond.................................Illinois
Downing, William Pointelie..........................Illinois
Duffy, Harry Aloysius...............................Illinois
Duffy, Daniel Franklin..............................Illinois
Dolan, Patrick Henry................................Illinois
Daly, Hugh James....................................Illinois
Drechney, John Harry................................Illinois
Dee, Samuel Allerton................................Illinois
Donahue, Wm. Matthew.................................Indiana
Deery, James Edward..................................Indiana
Dreibelbus, Joseph Dorvan............................Indiana
224
BULLETIN OF THE
Defrees, Victor Watson..........................Indiana
Donahue, Ferol John.............................Indiana
Dinnen, John Richard............................Indiana
Dinnen, George .................................Indiana
Donahue, Joseph Nicholas........................Indiana
Dixon, Maurice Edwin............................Indiana
Ditton, James Hawkins...........................Indiana
Doktor, Julian Florian..........................Indiana
Daily, John Frederic.............................Kansas
Dant, John Proctor.............................Kentucky
Dunphy, William Francis...................Massachusetts
De Landero, Pedro Antonio........................Mexico
Del Rio, Pedro Martin............................Mexico
Dominguez, Mario Seferino........................Mexico
Daly, James Stewart............................Michigan
Dolan, William Thomas..........................Missouri
Degen, Gerard, Theodore......................New Jersey
Degen, Henry Peter...........................New Jersey
Dwyer, Peter Gregory.................................New	York
Devine, James Joseph.................................New	York
Donaghue, Charles Cyril..............................New	York
Dixon, Carmo Francis..;............................Ohio
Dederich, Robert John..............................Ohio
Deckman, Charles George............................Ohio
Devitt, James Ryan......................./.........Ohio
Donovan, James Cornelius...........................  Ohio
Dunn, Mitchell.....................................  Ohio
Dolan, Samuel Michael..
Dimick, Ralph Chester...
Devine, John Joseph.......
Diebold, Ligouri Joseph..
Dixon, Jos. Thomas........
Duque, Carlos Alphonsus.
Damiani, Carlos Reinaldo
........Oregon
........Oregon
........Pennsylvania
........Pennsylvania
........Pennsylvania
Peru, South America
Peru, South America
Diaz, Roman..................................Porto	Rico
Dana, Fred Charles...........................Wisconsin
Donley, Earl Edward..........................Wisconsin
Dallwig, Leon Eugene.........................Wisconsin
Duffy, John Francis..........................Wisconsin
Daniels, Arthur Bruce..........................Wyoming
Espinal, Antonio Marino...............................Cuba
Elgee, William Howard	T...........................Idaho
Ernest, B.........................................Illinois
Eligius, B........................................Illinois
Eugene, B.........................................Illinois
Ecklund, Percy	August.............................Illinois
Edwards, William	Howard...........................Indiana
Edward, B. ........................................Indiana
Edmund, B..........................................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
225
Ephrem, B.......................................Indiana
Ehr, William Joseph........................North	Dakota
Engemann, John Romanns.....................Pennsylvania
Ely,. John Wilfred.........................Pennsylvania
Enaji, Francisco D.....................Philippine Islands
Ennis, Matthew Garty.........................Washington
Friedrich, Philip Peter..........................Colorado
Fink, Frank Geoffrey....................•........Colorado
Farry, Claude Joseph.^...........................Colorado
Faulknor, James William..........................Illinois
Figel, Edward L..................................Illinois
Fletcher, Forest.................................Illinois
Flanagan, Joseph Thomas..........................Illinois
Fritch, Louis Michael............................Illinois
Fritch, Emil Joseph..............................Illinois
Fischer, Robert John.............................Illinois
Figel, Theodore .................................Illinois
Fumasoli, Ernest ................................Illinois
Fitzgerald, Harold Francis.......................Illinois
Freyermuth, John Warren...........................Indiana
Funk, Elmo A......................................Indiana
Farneman, John D. J...............................Indiana
Fralick, James Stanislaus.........................Indiana
Falvey, Jay Marcus................................Indiana
Finbar, B.........................................Indiana
Fanelli, Salvator Paul.........................  Kentucky
Fish, Wm. Arthur............................Massachusetts
Freeze, Chester Douglas.....................Massachusetts
Fish, James Leo.............................Massachusetts
Flynn, Charles Joseph.......................Massachusetts
Foley, James William...........................Massachusetts	.
Fant, Paul Douglas...............................Maryland
Falomir, William John..............................Mexico
Finn, Russell Gregory............................Michigan
Foley, Daniel Ralph..............................Michigan
Florence, B......................................Michigan
Finnigan, George Joseph..........................New	York
Finnegan, Wales Edward...........................New	York
Fiedler, Eugene .................................New	York
Foley, James Timothy.............................New	Jersey
Fazekas, Stephen Aloysius............................Ohio
Finneran, Francis Xavier.............................Ohio
Fletcher, Emmet .....................................Ohio
Ford, Thomas Hugh....................................Ohio
Fleck, Philip Louis..................................Ohio
Finley, Robt. Lee................................Oklahoma
Fasenmeyer, Edward John......................Pennsylvania
Fenesy, John Clair...........................Pennsylvania
226	. BULLETIN OF THE
Fitzgerald, William Thomas...................Pennsylvania
Foley, Edward Andrew.........................South Dakota
Foley, John Lawrence.........................South Dakota
Frawley, Henry James...................7.....South Dakota
Frawley, William Gardner.................*...	South Dakota
Fischer, Herbert Adolph.........................Wisconsin
Fordyce, John Martin............................Wisconsin
Forrestal, Peter Paul.......................... Wisconsin
Grant, Raymond Loney...........................California
Gonzalez, Francisco S................................Cuba
Gonzalez, Manuel ..................................  Cuba
Gonzalez, Jose Maris.................................Cuba
Gamboa, Octavio Francisco............................Cuba
Gamboa, Nicholas August..............................Cuba
Gray, William Piatt..............................Illinois
Gray, Clarence Piatt.............................Illinois
^joulden, George Post.............................Illinois
Goulden, Cornelius William.......................Illinois
Gregory, B.......................................Illinois
Goltra, Roy Nalor..............................  Illinois
Goltra, Elmer, Albert..........................  Illinois
Goltra, Lawrence Prince..........................Illinois
Griesbach, Otto George...........................Illinois
Grabarski, Joseph Stanislaus.....................Illinois
Gardiner, Martin Earl............................Illinois
Garrity, Leo Francis.............................Illinois
Green, Francis Edward.............................Indiana
Goethals, George Henry............................Indiana
Glynn, Thomas Davis...............................Indiana
Graham, David John................................Indiana
Gleason, Paul Anthony.............................Indiana
Glueckert, Henry George...........................Indiana
Gira, Sylvester Anthony...........................Indiana
Glynn, Edw. Jerome..........................Massachusetts
Grimm, Louis Adam...........................Massachusetts
Garcia, Rafael ....................................Mexico
Gurza, Miguel .....................................Mexico
Gonzalez, Juan Garcia..............................Mexico
Grange, Rafael Francisco...........................Mexico
Gotfredson, Robert Benjamin....’.................Michigan
Galvin, Edward Gilbert.........................  Michigan
Gaffney, 'George Miltner.........................Michigan
Gallagher, Thomas .............................  Michigan
Goddeyne, Joseph Chas............................Michigan
Griesedieck, William August......................Missouri
Green, Allen Ransom..............................New	York
Garcia, Manuel Lopez...........................New	Mexico
Geiger, Jacob R......................................Ohio
Galligan, William Patrick........................Oklahoma
Goettler, Carl Wm............................Pennsylvania
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
227
Garvey, Eugene Augustine.....................Pennsylvania
Gerenda, John .............................. Pennsylvania
Gutierrez, Jose Miguel..............Peru,	South Americae
Geoghegan, Rudolph Francis...........................Utah
Handlin'; Claire Venney..........................Arkansas
Hart, Edwin Horace...............................Colorado
Hughes, Arthur John..............................Illinois
Hanley, John Connor..............................Illinois
Hollearn, Francis Joseph.........................Illinois
Hawes, George Harrison...........................Illinois
Herr, Stephen Henry..............................Illinois
Herr, Jesse Janies...............................Illinois
Hassett, John Joseph.............................Illinois
Hassett, Frank Aloysius..........................Illinois
Hope, James Leo..................................Illinois
Hollywood, Thomas Clemens........................Illinois
Healy, Joseph Jeremiah...........................Illinois
Hogan, Thomas Franklin...........................Illinois
Hays, Ralph Miller...............................Illinois
Hiemenz, Carl Clemens............................Illinois
Haas, Joseph Rolland.............................Illinois
Huferd, George Francis...........................Illinois
Hannah, Charles Alphonsus........................Illinois
Hagerty, Chas. Aloysius..........................Indiana-
Hagerty, George Dominic...........................Indiana
Hillman, Victor Emanuel...........................Indiana
Hyten, Forest Glay................................Indiana
Honan, Raymond Lawrence...........................Indiana
__-Hosinski, John Stanislaus.........................Indiana
Heiser, Joseph Allan..............................Indiana
Holden, George Francis............................Indiana
Holden, John Shedd................................Indiana
Hommcwun, Clarence Raymond........................Indiana
5-—Hazinski, Leon Casimir............................Indiana
Harrington, Timothy V..............................Kansas
Huerkamp, Joseph Martin..........................Kentucky
Henkel, Gustavo ...................................Mexico
Hammond, LeGrand Anderson........................Michigan
Hebert. Peter Edward.............................Michigan
Heystek, Henry John...:..........................Michigan
Homan, Guilford George..........................Minnesota
Hruza, John William...............................Montana
Harvat, Paul Julius...............................Montana
Hebner, Harry Joseph.............................Nebraska
Hubbell, John Anthony..........................New	Mexico
Hickey, Cornelius Joseph.........................New	York
Hogan, Wm. Neal......................................Ohio
Howley, Thos. Joseph.................................Ohio
Hemmer, Walter James.................................Ohio
*
228	BULLETIN OF THE
Hagerty, John Chester.................................Ohio
Helmkamp, Wm. Bernard.................................Ohio
Hamilton, Donald Munson...............................Ohio
Hug, Otto Joseph......................................Ohio
Hinde, Joseph James, Jr...............................Ohio
Hilkert, Albert Andrew................................Ohio
Hughes, Thos. Cleveland.......................Pennsylvania
Havican, Thomas Aloysius .....................Pennsylvania
Heyl, William John............................Pennsylvania
Heyl, Martin John.............................Pennsylvania
Hampton, Augustus Joseph.....................Rhode Island
Heffernan, John Francis......................South Dakota
Hanan, Otto Sylvester........................South Dakota
Hamilton, Garland Buskirk....................West Virginia
Hayden, Wm. Basil................................Wisconsin
Hebenstreit, Anton Raymond.......................Wisconsin
Ploward, Edward Joseph.............................Vermont
Jansen, Wm. Fred...................................Alabama
“johnston, Fabian Neele............................Colorado
Johnson, Lawrence Theodore........................Illinois
Jennings, Clarence Alonzo.........................Illinois
Jakubowski, Ceslaus Joseph........................Illinois
Judge, Thomas Aloysius.......................Massachusetts
Jones, Harry Bernard..............................Michigan
Jennings, Eugene Owen.............................New	York
Janszen, Lawrence John................................Ohio
Jalandoni, Daniel Lawrence...............Philippine Islands
Jalandoni, Dorote   .....................Philippine Islands
Kelly, Charles Joseph..........................Connecticut
King, Albert Vincent............................  Illinois
Kinsella, Gerald George...........................Illinois
Knisely, Richard Wm.............................  Illinois
Kellum, Charles Harvey............................Illinois
Koelbel, Herbert................................  Illinois
Kavanaugh, John Raymond...........................Illinois
Koelbel, Arthur...................................Illinois
Kroll, John Joseph................................Illinois
Kuszynski, Stanislaus Stephen.....................Illinois
Kelley, James Joseph..............................Illinois
Knight, Charles Martin............................Illinois
Kelly, Albert Michael.............................Illinois
Koehne, Peery Patterson............................Ilinois
Kosinski, Edmund Francis........................  Illinois
Kenefick, James Paul...............................Indiana
Kennington, James Wm...............................Indiana
Keenan, James Francis..........................    Indiana
Kanouse, Jesse Edward..............................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
229
Kies, George Louis..............................Indiana
Kamm, Adolph Xavier.............................Indiana
----Kowalski, Edmund Chas.........................Indiana.
Kaufer, John William...............................Indiana
Kaiser, Benedict Joseph.........................Indiana
<—-Kruszewski, Leo Hilary...........................Indiana
Kiley, John Walter..............................Indiana
Koontz, Charles Cracknell.......................Indiana
Keller, Andrew John.............................Indiana
Kelley, John Charles............................Indiana
Keeffe, Herbert Richard............................Iowa
Keeline, John Francis............................  Iowa
Kelly, Luke Leo...........................Massachusetts
Kranz, Leslie Henry............................Nebraska
Kelly, Joseph Patrick..........................New York
Kelly, Michael Joseph..........................New York
Kelley, George Bernard.........................New York
Kiley, Louis John..............................New York
Koop, Harry Michael...........................Minnesota
Kennedy, James Francis.....................North Dakota
Keys, Victor ......................................Ohio
Keys, Albert Hense.................................Ohio
Kramer, Joseph Gerard..............................Ohio
Kane, Eugene Garvey........................Pennsylvania
Kuhle, Henry, Jr...........................South Dakota
Kelly, Darnay Anthony.........................Wisconsin
Kane, Leo Farrell.............................Wisconsin
Keogh, Gordon Edward..........................Wisconsin
Kehoe, James Patrick .........................Wisconsin
Kehoe, Francis Leo............................Wisconsin
Lequerica, Antonio
Lequerica, Manuel
Lowenstein, Albert
.......Colombia, South America
.......Colombia,South America
.......■.....Georgia
Larkin, Artur Bernard.............................Illinois
Lynch, James Lawrence.............................Illinois
Lister, Edwin Joseph..............................Illinois
Leeming, John Jr..................................Illinois
Leeming, Frank Chas...............................Illinois
Lister, Everett Alfred..........................  Illinois
Lahey, Charles William............................Illinois
Larkin, Harold William............................Illinois
Listecki, Edward Lawrence.........................Illinois
Lisewski, Casimir Joseph..........................Illinois
Lerner, Theodore Joseph...........................  Indiana
Lower, Harold Joseph...............................Indiana
Lucas, George Maurice..............................Indiana
Laramore, Etna Clyde ..............................Indiana
Lawton, Jasper H...................................Indiana
230
BULLETIN OF THE
Lensin, Henry Bernard...........................Indiana
Leslie, Joseph Woody............................Indiana
s^Luzny, Francis Xavier...........................Indiana
Larke,	Lawrence D............................Michigan
Lahey,	Thomas Aquinas........................Michigan
Lucas,	Charles ..............................Missouri
Lucas,	Morton James..........................Missouri
Lerned, Morris Boynton.......................Nebraska
Lynch, George Alfred........................New York
Lyons, Raphael Joseph.......................New York
Loebs, Roy Jacob...................................New	Mexico
Loebs, Earl Raymond................................New	Mexico
Lamb, George Lawrence............................North	Dakota
Lynch, Edwin Joseph............................  Ohio
Lenertz, John Arthur.........................Oklahoma
Lange, Bernard Herman....................Pennsylvania
Logue, Francis Charles...................Pennsylvania
Luder, Earl Ernest..........................Wisconsin
Matthews, Robert Lee.............................Alaska
Mantil, Gregory Patrick..........................Canada
Murray, Charles Donnelly.......................Colorado
	Colombio,	South America
...................Cuba
Mendez, Fernando
^Marquez, Juan Jose
Marquez, Juan Eduardo.................................Cuba
Maltby, Howson Morris..............................Georgia
Moore, Edward Joseph..............................Kentucky
Meyer, Arthur ................................... Illinois
Maloney, Thos. J..................................Illinois
Mehlen, John James................................Illinois
Moritz, Henry Charles.............................Illinios
Meersman, Peter John..............................Illinois
Myers, Henry Cleveland............................Illinois
Marshall, Guy Frederick............................Ilinois
Madigan, Joseph Denis.............................Illinois
Mann, Milton Charles..............................Illinois
Mulloy, Bernard Benedict..........................Illinois
Mathis, Micahel Ambrose............................Indiana
Milanowski, Stanislaus Francis....................Illinois
Madigan, George..................;.....................Illinois
Morse, Robert Hosmer....................................Illinois
Martel, George Wendell..................................Illinois
Malkowski, John Stanislaus..........................Illinois
Milroy, William James................................  Illinois
Mee, Thomas Simon...................................Illinois
Mee, Edward Francis.................................Illinois
Mills, Fred Leon....................................Illinois
Moynihan, -Emmett Aloysius..........................Illinois
Martin, Joseph Andrew................................Indiana
Murdock, Charles Lillis..............................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
231
-Micinski, Boleslaus ..........................Indiana
Motts, Edw. Theodore...........................Indiana
Molle, EmilrValerian...........................Indiana
Milliken, Clarence G...........................Indiana
Mays, Walter ..................................Indiana
Moynihan, Andrew ..............................Indiana
Meuninck, Julius ..............................Indiana
Molony/ Justin James...........................Indiana
Morrison, Denis Augustine.........................Iowa
Mulcair; Michael Aloysius......................Ireland
Margraf, John John..........................Luxumbourg
Maloney, James Ignatius..................Massachusetts
Murphy, John Patrick.....................Massachusetts
Mendoza, Jose M.................................Mexico
Mann, Charles Hughes..........................Michigan
Murphy, ^Charles Anthony......................Michigan
Murphy, Edward Harold.........................Michigan
Madden, Frank Leo.............................Michigan
Mullally, Joseph Wilson.......................Missouri
Mullalley, John Norvell ......................Missouri
Marony, Joseph John..........................New	York
Monaghan, James William......................New	York
Murphy, William James........................New	York
Minnick, William Francis.....................New	York
Marcille, Gilbert Grover.....................New	York
Moriarity, Michael Lee............................Ohio
Miller, Martin Harold.............................Ohio
Murphy, Joseph Benedict...........................Ohio
Moushey, Paul Joseph..............................Ohio
Marshall, Charles Joseph..........................Ohio
Misch, Edgar John.................................Ohio
Mang, Vincent.....................................Ohio
Miner, Peter Joseph.......................Pennsylvania
Maloney, Eugene Augustine.................Pennsylvania
Morrissey, William Kieran.................Pennsylvania
Mack, Earl Thaddeus....................   Pennsylvania
Mullin, John Henry........................Pennsylvania
Murphy, Chas. Wm..........................Pennsylvania
Martin, William Charles.....................Washington
Meyer, Joseph Henry......................West Virginia
Minotti, Alphonsus John..................West Virginia
Metcalf, Albert Lorenzo......................Wisconsin
Michaud, Philip Louis........................Wisconsin
Moran, William James.........................Wisconsin
Monroe, Richard James.....z..................Wiscnosin
Miltner, Charles Christopher.................Wisconsin
Morsch, Jesse Julius...........................Wyoming
MacDonald, Angus Joseph.......................  Canada
McPhee, John Elmer............................Colorado
232
BULLETIN OF THE
McElroy,'Leo Cyril..................   .Connecticut
McIntosh/ Wade ..........................  Illinois
McNally, Francis M. Field..................Illinois
McDonough, Harry Francis...................Illinois
McCarthy, Alexander George.................Illinois
McGlynn, Joseph Bernard....................Illinois
McDonald, Lawrence.........................Illinois
Mclnerny, Michael Francis..................Illinois
McCarthy, Wm. Francis, Jr..................Illinois
McMorran, William Edward...................Illinois
McDonald, Donald Patrick....................Indiana
McMahon, James Donald......................Indiana
McGuire, Francis Thomas....................Indiana
McCarthy, Jeremiah Anthony.................Indiana
McIntyre, Harry Charles........................Indiana
McKindly, Hugh Arthur..........................Indiana
McCafferty, Joseph James.......................Indiana
MacDonell, Francis Eugene......................Indiana
McConlogue, Raymond B.............................Iowa
McGill, Rob ert J os eph......................Kentucky
McGarry, Wm. Everett.....................Massachusetts
McGillis, Verne Daniel........................Michigan
McGrath, Herbert Alex........................Minnesota
McDonnell, Joseph Patrick....................Minnesota
McGreevy, John Timothy.......................Minnesota
McGinnis, Daniel Vincent......................Missouri
McNulty, John Francis...........................Missouri
McBride, Lucius	............................New	York
McBride, Walter	J...........................New	York
McSweeny, John	Patrick....................New	York
McCassy, Stanly Whan...........................  Ohio
McCann, William Joseph...........................Ohio
McHugh, Edwin Charles...........................Ohio'
McVean, Ray Leo..................................Ohio
McNicol, Cornelius Charles.......................Ohio
McLaughlin, John Edward..........................Ohio
McBride, Frank Bernard...................Pennsylvania
McCague, John Francis....................Pennsylvania
McCarthy, Cornelius Charles..............Pennsylvania
McElhone, James Francis..................Pennsylvania
McGladigan, Gerald Joseph................Pennsylvania
McNicpl, Daniel John.....................Pennsylvania
MacCauley, Hugh Batholomew................Rhode Island
McGrath, Chester Martin...................South Dakota
McGinnis, John Edward...........................Texas
McCafferty, James Pancratius...............Washington
McHugh,. Francis Joseph....................Washington
McCoy, George Nolan.........................Wisconsin
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	233
i
Newton, Ralph William..............................Illinois
Nachowicz, Theophilus Jacob........................Illinois
Niemier, Melchoir Stanislaus.....................Illinois
Newton, Joseph Fay...............................Illinois
Newton, Frank Quitterfield........................Ilinois
Neeson, Janies ......................................Iowa
Nowers, Joseph Fay.................................Kansas
Nowers, Paul.......................................Kansas
Norton, Daniel Learned...........................Michigan
Nolan, Matthew James ...........................Minnesota
Newman, Louis Joseph...........................Minnesota
Neble, Edward Eyvin.................‘............Nebraska
Nageleisen, Louis Marcel.......................New York
Nolan, Michael Harvey................................Ohio
Nolan, Tames Daniel..................................Ohio
Nicholas, B........................................  Ohio
Norckauer, Maurice Joseph............................Ohio
Niedecken, Frank Norbert........................Wisconsin
O’Byrne, Fallon ..................................Alabama
O’Shea, William Doyle............................Arkansas
0‘Hara, Edwin Joseph...........................California
O’Connor, Wm. Patrick............................Illinois
Oelric-h, Joseph Frederic........................Illinois
O’Brien, John Edward.............................Illinois
O’Malley, John Michael...........................Illinois
Osborne, Robert Henry............................Illinois
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph...........................Illinois
Orminski, John Charles...........................Illinois
Osborne, Lee ....................................Illinois
O’Connell, John Charles..........................Illinois
O’Connell, Thomas B..............................Illinois
O’Connell, Theodore Wm...........................Illinois
O’Connell, John William..........................Illinois
O’Brien, James Francis...........................Illinois
O’Shea, Dennis Aloysius..........................Illinois
O’Hara, John Francis..............................Indiana
O’Connor, Maurice Patrick.........................Indiana
Owen, B...........................................Indiana
O’Neil, Ronald Sylvester..........................Indiana
Oltsch, George John...............................Indiana
O’Brien, Wilmer Leo...............................Indiana
O’Donnell, Thomas Raymond.........................Indiana
O’Donnell, John .................................Michigan
Outhouse, David Edward...........................Michigan
O’Neil, Henry William............................Missouri
O’Neil, Joseph Augustus..........................Missouri
O’Flynn, James Baldwin............................Montana
Oshe, Marcellus Matthew..............................Ohio
O’Neil, Thomas Francis...............................Ohio
O’Brien, Paul Francis................................Ohio
O’Rourke, Charles ...................................Ohio
O’Brien, John Frank..............................Oklahoma
234
BULLETIN OF THE
O’Herron, Edward Michael..................Pennsylvania
O’Rorke, Janies Henry.................... Pennsylvania
O’Neil, John Paul.........................Pennsylvania
O’Connell, Francis Maurice................Pennsylvania
Ott, Edward John..................;..........Wisconsin
O’Meara, Patrick Marquette.................  Wisconsin
Philbrook, Geo. Warren..../.....................California
Parish, Wm. Joseph............................... Illinois
Polakow, Julius.................................. Illinois
Probst, Rudolph Otto...............................Indiana
Phillips, Wendell Thomas....................Massachusettes
Pimentel, Salvador..................................Mexico
Portilia, Eduardo Lopez.............................Mexico
Petit, Carlos ......................................Mexico
Piper, Herman...................................Minnesota
Powers, Fred William............................New York
Peurrung, Joseph Charles..............................Ohio
Phillips, Joseph Wilmer...........................Oklahoma
Paine, Robert Edward.......L.........................Texas
Prawdzich, Adolph ...............................Wisconsin
Quinn, James Francis...............................Illinois
Quinlan, Joseph Andrew.............................Illinois
Quinn, Vincent Bernard.............................Illinois
Quigley, Thomas Daniel.............................Illinois
Qualman, Paul Henry.................................Indiana
Quintanilla, Ignacio................................ Mexico
Quish, Francis Edward..............................Michigan
Quinn, Edw. John...................................New	York
Rubio, Ramon Garcia........................................Cuba
Rivas, Gusetavo Francis....................................Cuba
Rempe,	George Aloysius..............................Illinois
Rempe,	Lester William...............................Illinois
Rempe,	Harold Raymond.............................. Illinois
Regan, George Joseph...................................Illinois
Ryan, Frank Richard....................................Illinois
Raff, Frank Joseph.....................................Illinois
Ryan, Nicholas Patrick.................................Illinois
Rogers,	Charles Joseph...............................Illinois
Russell,	James Thomas.................................Illinois
Railton,	Bert Albert..................................Illinois
Riordan, Donovan Henry.................................Illinois
Railton,	John R. L....................................Illinois
Ryan, Edward Joseph..............................Illinois
Roth, Jesse Henry.................................Indiana
Rush, Paul........................................Indiana
Rokop, Andrew Michael.............................Indiana
Ridgeway, Hervey John.............................Indiana
Rumely, Mark Anthony..............................Indiana
Roe, John Donald................................  Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
235
Reitz, Leroy Theodore.........................Indiana
Reed, Norman James............................Indiana
^—Rozewicz, Anthony John.........................Indiana
Roct, Michael Joseph..........................Indiana
Reddin, William Joseph...........................Iowa
Ramirez, Roberto Jose..........................Mexico
Romero, Joaquin................................Mexico
Ramirez, Francisco Jose......■.................Mexico
Rutkowski, Harry Thomas......................Michigan
Ryan, Claude Alexander......................Minnesota
Reps, Louis Wilson......
Redding, James Francis...
Radel, Edward Herman...
Ryan, William Richard, Jr
Rebillot, Lawrence Joseph.
Rynn, Raymond ..........
Remlinger, John ........
Read, Augustus Lee......
Reilly, Thomas Walter....
Ros, Carlos Manuel......
Ros, Gustavo Adolpho....
Rice, Wm. H.............
Romana, Juan L..........
Ryan, Geo. Joseph.......
Ritter, Claude Andrew....
Richmond, Charles Milton
Ryan, Raymond Hassett...
...............Missouri
....New	York
....New.....Jersey
....Ohio
....Ohio
....Ohio
....Ohio
....Ohio
....Ohio
.Panama, Central America
Panama, Central America
....Pennsylvania
....Peru, South America
....Texas
....Texas
....Texas
....Utah
Springer, Albert Guy.................................Colorado
Springer, Frank Johnston.... .■......................Colorado
Stoughton, Dwinght Harold.........................Connecticut
San Pedro, Alvaro Rodriquez..............................Cuba
Smith, Roy Edwin.....................................Illinois
Steers, Fred Llewellyn ..........'...................Illinois
Stilling, George Arthur..............................Illinois
Somers, Michael Francis..............................Illinois
Shaughnessy, Thos. Joseph............................Illinois
Semrau, John Andrew..................................Illinois
Scholl, Carl August..................................Illinois
Sippel, George Bruno.................................Illinois
Susen, Theodore Albert...............■...............Illinois
Stephen, Leo Joseph..................................Illinois
Sippel, Edward Anton..........................:......Illinois
Stack, James Joseph..................................Illinois
Sobolewski, Wenceslaus Anthony.......................Illinois
Sullivan, John Francis...............................Illinois
Schwalbe, Oscar H..................................  Illinois
Seery, Thomas .......................................Illinois
Stoll, Robert Holton.................................Illinois
Stoll, DeForest Sterling.............................Illinois
Schloeman, Harold Herbert............................Illinois
Schinkoeth, Leroy ...................................Illinois
Short, Robert Truesdell..............................Illinois
236
BULLETIN OF THE
Short, Norman Francis..............................Illinois
Salmon, Jack ....................................  Illinois
Short, Victor Bernard..............................Illinois
Smith, J os eph Ar thur............................Illinois
Sinnott, Myles Hilt.................................Indiana
Stewart, Chester Clay...............................Indiana
Szymanski, Ladislaus JLeo.........................  Indiana
Scheibelhut, Leo Charles..........................  Indiana
Schubert, Lawrence P................................Indiana
Stueckle, Clarence Chas.............................Indiana
Schwartz, Samuel Paul...............................Indiana
Scliellinger, Arthur Anthony........................Indiana
Sage, Fred Leroy....................................Indiana
Schumacher, Leo Albert..............................Indiana
Swearingen, James Emmett............................Indiana
Schreyer, Andrew Ignatius.........................  Indiana
^-^-^Szamecki, Stanislaus Peter..........................Indiana
Sh'ourds, Dalton Bacon..............................Indiana
Saunders, Fred .....................................Indiana
Shock, George Jacquith..............................Indiana
Shannon, Jack Hastings..............................Indiana
Sherlock, James Bernard...............................  Iowa
Shepard, George Martin....,
Sanchez, Alfred Arnulfo...
Satomayor, Luis Gavino ...
Saravia, Augustine Gonzalez
Sahagun, Jesse Solis.......
Swikoski, Stanislaus Andrew
Sturn, Leo Alfred...........
Spear, Arthur Upham.........
Schmitt, Wm. Chas...........
Steinhoff, Edmund Yore....
Steinhoff, Homer Victor....

Shelby, Loren Jacob...
Schmid, Otto Aloysius
Shannon, Leo Justin..
Sorg, Claude A.......
Sexton, Warren........
*
Shenk, Robert Raymond..
Sands, Geo. Washington..
Sexton James Clement....
Sawkins, John Alfred....
Shouvlin, Daniel Robert...
Schmidt, Carole Joseph....
Scott, Russell Joseph...
Schindler, Robert Domitio
Schmitt, Paul Anthony....
Soisson, Leon Joseph....
Strassner, George Francis.
Schwartz, Theodore......
Schmitt, Louis .........
Savord, Edward Henry...
Sexton, Philip John.....
. Maryland
... .Mexico
.... Mexico
.... Mexico
.... Mexico
.. Michigan
.. Michigan
. Minnesota
. Minnesota
.. Missouri
.. Missouri
.. Missouri
.. Missouri
.. Montana
New York
New York
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio
.....Ohio

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
Story, Edw. Joseph................................Oklahoma
Shea, Thomas Fenlon...............................Oklahoma
Skelly, Raymond Edward........................Pennsylvania
Spillane, Arthur James........................Pennsylvania
Spillane, John Owen...........................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Basil Joseph.........................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Robert Regis.........................Pennsylvania
Stoakes, Lawrence Mitchell....................Pennsylvania
Schlichting, Victor Hugo....................South Dakota
Sackett, Henry ......................................Texas
Sieber, Raymond Joseph...........................Wisconsin
Theurer, Joseph George............................Illinois
Traynor, James Joseph.............................Illinois
Tomezak, Ladislaus Proch..........................Illinois
Turner, Jay Marcus................................Illinois
Tully, John Carl..................................Illinois
Taylor, Harold Epping.............................Illinois
Thompson, Frank Bernard............................Indiana
Tomaszeski, Stanislaus Hilary......................Indiana
Tucker, Garland Lee................................Indiana
Toth, Joseph Michael...............................Indiana
Talcott, Vaughan Henry ...........................Kentucky
Troxler, Creston Roch............................Louisiana
Tavison, Carlos ....................................Mexico
Toole, James Vincent .............................Michigan
Truscott, Fred Louis.;.............................Montana
Tipton, William Ruben.......................New Mexico
Tretton, John Benedict........................New York
Titlow, Lawrence Burns........................Pennsylvania
Theophilus, B.................................Pennsylvania
Trumbull, Selden ...........................South	Carolina
Tucker, Davis Halsey.................................Texas
Ulatowski, Clement Lambert........................Illinois
Urias, Arturo.......................................Mexico
Usera, Ferdinand Hector.......................Porto Rico
Vance, Robert James............................Connecticut
Van Cleve, Franklin H.............................Illinois
Vzyral, Sylvester Lawrence........................Illinois
Vaughan, Robert Edward.............................Indiana
Voelkers, John Joseph..............................Indiana
Vera, Jesse Eustaquio...............................Mexico
• Von Phul, Carol Aloysius...........................Missouri
Volland, Gordon ......................................Ohio
Villaflor, Pastor .......................Philippine	Island
Veazy, Louis Alphonsus.................................West	Virginia
Weldon,	Louis James.............................Colorado
Weldon,	Raymond ................................Colorado
Wasson,	James ..................................Illinois
Washburn, George Edward...........................Illinois
Wilcox,	Clifford Bruce..........................Illinois
238
BULLETIN OF THE
Walter, Martin Emmett..........................Illinois
Weidner, Hubert Pancratius.....................Illinois
Walsh, Francis Joseph..........................Illinois
Welch, Thomas Rowland..........................Illinois
Walsh, Francis Marion.............................Idaho
Ware, James Michael.............................Indiana
Warrell, Chas. Frederick.......:................Indiana
Welch, John W...................................Indiana
Williams, Frederick ..........................  Indiana
Wenninger, Francis Joseph.......................Indiana
Ward, Kenneth...................................Indiana
Wickham, Leo Joseph................................Iowa
Williams, William Joseph......................Kentucky-
Wolff, George William............................Mexico
Warapius, John Joseph..........................Michigan
Wirthman, Fred George..........................Missouri
Wilson, William Harold.........................Michigan
Weadock, Philip Sheridan.....................  Michigan
.White, Harry Bertram..........................Michigan
Weeks, Edward Joseph...........................Michigan
Wrape, Alva Henry..............................Missouri
Wilson, John Marion............................New	York
Ward, Walter Raymond...........................New	York
White, Harold George...........................New	York
Walsh, Robert Michael..........................New	York
Walsh, Arthur Deady...........................New	Jersey
Walsh, George Patrick.............................Ohio
Wren, Christopher Francis.........................Ohio
Walsh, Thomas Joseph.....................  Pennsylvania
White, Carl Bradford..........................Tennessee
White, Richard Mitchell.......................Tennessee
Wittenberg, John Conrad...................West Virginia
Wittenberg, John P. Newman................West Virginia
Walsh, Dana Wykoff............................Wisconsin
Young, Ora Ray.....................................Iowa
Youngerman, Frank, Jr..............................Iowa
Ybarguengoytia, Lorenzo..........................Mexico
Yturria, Fausto Evaristo.........................Mexico
Yturria, Hermino Seferino........................Mexico
Yund, Walter Victor.............................Montana
Zubiria, Nicholas .
Zubiria, Ramon.....
Zubiria, Alfredo ........
Zimmer, Harry Joseph...
—Zgodzinski, Leo Stanislaus
Zapata, Jose Emeterio....
Zapata, Lino ............................
Zundel, Lee ...............
Zink, Frank A..............
Zink, William Ignatius....
Zang, Leo Henry............
Zelewski, Eric V...........
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
................Indiana
.................Indiana
..................Mexico
..................Mexico
................Michigan
....................Ohio
....................Ohio
........   .Pennsylvania
...........   .Wisconsin
The
Notre Dame Alumni
Association
240
BULLETIN OF THE
OFFICERS.
Honorary President.
Very Rev. John Dinnen, D. D., 78,
Lafayette, Indiana.
President.
Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00.
Chicago, Ill.
Pice-Presidents.
Prof. William Hoynes, 77,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Rev. Martin J. Regan, C. S. C., ’85,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
William A. McInerny, ’01,
South Bend, Indiana.
Joseph J. Sullivan, ’01,
Chicago, Illinois.
Anton C. Stephan, ’04,
Chicago, Illinois.
Martin H. Miller, ’10.
J	X
Defiance, Ohio.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
241
Secretary.
Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C. S. C., ’99,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Treasurer.
Warren A. Cartier, ’87,
Ludington, Michigan.
Trusteesj ’09-T1.
Hon. John M. Gearin, ’71,
Portland, Ore.
Hon. William L. Dechant, ’79,
Middletown, Ohio.
Gustavo L. Trevino, ’08,
Monterey, Mexico.
Trustees ’08-T0.
Henry A. Steis, ’85,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dr. James M. Dinnen, ’96,
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Clement C. Mitchell, ’02,
Chicago, Illinois.
Trustees, ex-officio.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., D. D., ’90,
President University of Notre Dame.
Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00.
President Notre Dame Alumni Association.
242
• BULLETIN OF THE
LOCAL CLUBS
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK.
Rev. Luke J. Evers, President, 20 City Hall Place.
Charles A. Gorman, Vice-President, 208 Hooper St.,
Brooklyn.
Peter P. M. McElligott, Secretary, 112 Wall St.
Thomas Murray, Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON.
Dr. Francis E. Carroll, President, 217 Huntington Ave.
Hon. William P. Higgins, Vice-President, 43 Tremont
Street.
Dr. John Fennessy, Secretary, Dorchester.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA.
James P. Fogarty, President, Betz Bldg.
Joseph D. Murphy, Vice-President.
Andrew J. Hanhauser, Secretary, 27 N. Fiftieth St.
John H. Neeson, Treasurer, 1701 Columbia Ave.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Bldg.
Frank P. Burke, Vice-President, 900 Pabst Bldg.
George F. Ziegler, Secretary.
Louis E. Best, Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON.
John C. Shea, President.
Peter Kuntz, Vice-President.
A. W. McFarland, Secretary-Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PORTLAND.
Hon. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
John F. Daly, Vice-President.
F. J. Lonergan, Sec.-Treas., Columbia University.
Sixty - Sixth
Annual Commencement
244
BULLETIN OF THE
CONFERRING OF DEGREES.
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred:
On a distinguished- lawyer and orator, a citizen of high-
est virtue, a leader of purest patriotism, and a noble
figure in the long line of Governors of Indiana,
Thomas Riley Marshall of Indianapolis.
On a scholar who has shed lustre on Philosophy, Lit-
erature, Pedagogy and Education to which he has
dedicated fine powers and whose highest interests he
has always sought with an unselfishness surpassed only
by his unassuming merits,
Edward Aloysius Pace of Washington, D. C.
On a jurist whose name is honored wherever legal
scholarship is known, an apostle of highest civic,
social and economic ideals, whose personal act measures
up to these ideals, a philanthropist whose sympathies
are as broad as humanity,
Max Pam of Chicago and New York.
On a humanitarian who has employed the powers of
his great office for the protection of human life, whose
work as Secretary of the Interstate Commerce Com-
mission for twenty-three years has been marked by
energetic and sustained devotion to official duty, to
whose beneficent activities the industrial as well as
the traveling public are debtors, and whose freedom
from self-seeking is such a noble example of patriotism,
Edward Augustus Moseley of Washington, D. C.
On a churchman whose fine natural powers have been
cultivated by assiduous study, an eloquent preacher,
a progressive and zealous leader, a tireless exponent
of what is best in education,
James Coyle of Taunton, Massachusetts.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	245
The Degree of Master of Arts was conferred on:
Otto Aloysius Schmid, Sheffield, Kansas City, Mo.
Thesis : Christ as a Man of Letters.
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on
Peter Edward Hebert, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
Emile Valere Molle, Peru., Ind.
Leo Cyril McElroy, Bridgeport, Conn.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on
George Joseph Finnigan, Malone, NewT York.
Francis Joseph Hollearn, Chicago, Ill.
Walter Lavin, Notre Dame, Ind.
Edgar John Misch, Cleveland, Ohio.
Michael Ambrose Mathis, South Bend, Ind.
Michael Lee Moriarty, Ashtabula, Ohio.
Denis Augustine Morrison, Fort Madison, Iowa.
Denis Aloysius O’Shea, Chicago, Ill.
James Francis Redding, Rochester, N. Y.
Jesse Henry Roth, Fowler, Ind.
Aloysius Augustine Weisbecker, Michigan City, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred
on:
Raymond Thomas Coffey, Greenfield, Iowa.
Martin Harold Miller, Defiance, Ohio.
Myles Hilt Sinnott, Indianapolis, Ind.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture
was conferred on:
George Patrick Walsh, Delphos, Ohio.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on:
George Emmett Attley, Chicago, Ill.
Samuel Michael Dolan, Albany, Oregon.
Jose Miguel Gutierrez, Arequipa, Peru, S. A.
Stephen Henry Herr, Chatsworth, Ill.
William Charles Schmitt, St. Paul, Minn.
246
BULLETIN OF THE
' 1
i * “	*
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on:
Jesse Eustaquio Vera, Queretaro, Mexico.
The Degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred on:
Lucius Buckley Andrus, South Bend, Ind.
Federico Caceres, Cuzco, Peru, S. A.
Lawrence Mitchell Stoakes, Pittsburg, Pa.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on:
James Lee Cahill, Peru, Ill.
Malachy Daniel Clark, Brainerd, Minn.
Paul Joseph Donovan, Woodstock, Ill.
Andrew Edward Foley, Watertown, South Dakota.
Darnay Anthony Kelly, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
James Paul Kenefick, Michigan City, Ind.
Edwin Joseph Lynch, Toledo, Ohio.
John Arthur Lenertz, Roosevelt, Oklahoma.
Harry Francis McDonagh, Chicago, Ill.
Charles William Murphy, Sheridanville, Pa.
George Washington Sands, Bainbridge, Ohio.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred
on:
Timothy Vincent Harrington, Solomon, Kansas.
James Ignatius Maloney, Newton Upper Falls, Mass.
Jesse Sahagun, Feocuitatlan, Jalisco, Mexico.
Claude Sorg, New York City.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred
on:
Julius Peter Bamberg, Alton, Iowa.
Owen Clark, Ladoga, Ind.
Otto Sylvester Hanon, Langford, South Dakota.
Daniel Lorenzo Jalandoni y Ledesma, Jaro, Iloilo,
Philippine Islands.
Henry Charles Moritz, Peoria, Ill.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical
Engineering were conferred on:
Antonio Aldrete, Guadalajara, Mexico.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
247
Gerard Theodore Degen, Newark, N. J.
Wales Edward Finnegan, Saranac Lake, N. Y.
Philip Louis Michaud, Baraboo, Wis.
Julius Meuninck, Mishawaka, Ind.
Joaquin Romero, Oaxaco, Mexico.
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical
Engineering were conferred on:
William Howard Edwards, South Bend, Ind.
William James Murphy, Saranac Lake, N. Y.
Edward Herman Radel, Bound Brook, N. J.
PRIZE MEDALS.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William J.
Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Program, Senior Year,
and a money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of
Mr. Henry W. Quan, in memory of his deceased
father, was awarded to
Peter Edward Hebert, Grand Rapids, Michigan.
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, pre-
sented by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, Covington, Ken-
tucky, was awarded to
George Joseph Finnigan, Malone, New York.
The Ellsworth C. Hughes Gold Medal, presented by
Mr. A. S. Hughes, of Denver, Colorado, for the
best record for four years in the Civil Engineering
Program, was awarded to
Jose Miguel Gutierrez, Aequipa, Peru, S. A.
248
BULLETIN OF THE
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by the
Hon. William P. Breen of the class of ’77, was
awarded to
Francis Joseph Wenninger, South Bend, Ind.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by the
Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
Allen Joseph Heiser, South Bend, Ind.
The Paul R. Martin Prize, presented by Paul R. Martin,
student ’08, for the best essay on some phase of
Celtic Literature, was awarded to
Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan City, Ind.
Seventy-Five Dollars in Gold for debating work, was
awarded as follows:
Thirty Dollars to
Paul Joseph Donovan, Woodstock, Ill.
Twenty-five Dollars to
James Vincent Toole, Detroit, Michigan.
Twenty Dollars to
Michael Ambrose Mathis, South Bend, Ind.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented by
Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the class of ’89, was
awarded to
Charles Christopher Miltner, Lake City, Mich.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Sophomore Oratory, presented
by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the class of ’91, was
awarded to
William Joseph Parish, Momence, Ill.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
249
Ten Dollars in Gold for Freshman Oratory, presented by
Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the class of ’91, was awarded
to
Allen Joseph Heiser, South Bend, Ind.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL.
The Fitzsimmons Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine,
presented by the Rev. W. J. Fitzsimmons, Chicago,
was.awarded to
Joseph Denis Madigan, of Chicago, Ill.
The O’Brien Gold Medal for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence A.
O’Brien, of Chicago, was awarded to
George Strassner, Toledo, Ohio.
The Joseph A. Lyons Gold Medal for Elocution, was
was awarded to
Louis Charles Cox, of Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preparatory Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell, of the class of
’04, was awarded to Francis Edward Biter, of Lor-
retto, Pa.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Raymond Michael Corboy, of Chicago, Ill.
John Anthony Hubbell, of Albuquerque, New Mexico.
250
BULLETIN OF THE
INDEX
Administration Building, The 12
Admission to the Colleges,
19, 40, 52, 61, 85, 93, 103
Advanced Standing ......20,	103
Alumni Association Officers 240
Anatomy, Courses in. ...46, 112
Architecture, The College of 91
Architecture, Courses in.... 113
Arts and Letters, The Col-
lege of ................... 38
Astronomy, Courses in...... 119
Athletics...............17,	30
Bachelors’ Degrees ......... 21
Bacteriology, Course in....119
Biology, Program in........ 59
Biological Laboratories.... 46
Board of Trustees............ 4
Board and Lodging.......33,	217
Botany, Courses in......... 120
Botanical Laboratories..... 47
Breen Medal................. 26
Brownson Hall............... 16
Buildings ............  12,	18
Calendar..................... 3
Carroll Scholarship......... 25
Carroll Hall................ lb
Charter .................... 11
Chemical Engineering, The
Department of ........ 88
Chemical Laboratories.. .14, 48
Chemistry, The Depart, of, 57
Chemistry, Courses in...... 122
Christian Doctrine,Courses in 128
Church, The   ............. 12
Civil Engineering, The De-
partment of................ 68
Civil Engineering,Courses in 128
Civil Government, Course in 198
Classics, The Department of 42
Colleges:
College of Arts & Letters 38
College of Architecture... 91
College of Engineering... 64
College of Law............102
College of Science ....... 45
Commercial High School.... 210
Commencement ............. 243
Concerts and Lectures..... 30
Corby Hall..,.............. 15
Courses of Instruction.. Ill, 198
Debating Prize............. 28
Degrees ................21,	244
Directory of the University. 2
Directors of Halls......... 10
Discipline ................ 28
Doctor of Philosophy, The
Degree of ........... 23
Dormitories............15, 16
Drawing, Courses in 136. 139, 198
Economics, The Dept. of... 44
Economics, Courses in..... 181
Elocution, Courses in..... 146
Elocution Medals .......... 27
Electrical Engineering, The
Department of ....... 80
Electrical Engineering,
Courses in ...............142
Engineering, The College of 64
English, Courses in....148, 199
Entrance Requirements,
19, 40, 52, 61, 67, 85, 93, 103
Executive Officers ......... 5
Expenses ..............34. 217
Faculty................6, 190
Ford Scholarships ......... 25
French, Courses in. 184, 187, 201
Geology, Courses in.......149
German, Courses in.....151, 203
Graduate Courses. 122, 127,
149, 155, 158, 160, 163, 177, 184
Grammar School............ 213
Greek Courses in.......152, 202
Gymnasium ................. 17
History and Economics, The
Department of ....... 44
History, Courses in....155, 203
Historical Sketch of the Uni-
versity ............. 11
Honors and Prizes......25, 247
Hospital .................. 17
Hughes’ Medal ............. 27
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
251
Infirmary ................... 17
Instruction, System of....... 18
Instructors in the Prepara-
tory School.............190
Italian, Courses in..........186
Johnson Scholarship.......... 25
Laboratory Fees,
55, 57, 59, 62, 67, 193
46, 47, 49, 50',' 69,' 72, 73,' 81, 93
Latin Courses in........158, 204
Law, The College of........102
Law, Courses in............ 108
Lectures and Concerts...... 30
Letters, The Department of. 43
Library, The Main.......... 12
Libraries, Department,
39, 46, 50, 62, 76, 107
List of Students...........219
Lodging, Board and......33, 219
Local Clubs ............... 242
Mason Medal ................ 26
Masters’ Degrees ........... 22
Mathematics,Courses in, 161, 205
Meehan Medal ............... 26
Mechanical Engineering,
The Department of... 72
Mechanical Engineering,
Courses in........... 163
Medals, Prize..........25,	247
Metallurgy, Courses in.....169
Microscopy, Courses in.....170
Minims, The School for.... 214
Mining Engineering, The De-
partment of............... 87
Mining Engineering, Course
in ................. 170
Museum ..................... 13
Music Hall.................. 13
Music, Courses in...........171
Observatory ................ 15
Officers of the University...	5
Oratory, Courses in........146
Pharmacy, The Department
of .................. 61
Pharmacy, Courses in.......174
Philosophy, Courses in.....176
Physical Laboratories ...... 50
Physics, Courses in........178
Physiology, Courses in.......180
Political Science, Courses in 181
Politics, Courses in.........183
Portuguese, Courses in.......187.
Preparatory School........189, 193
Professors .................. 6
Program of Studies 42, 43, 44, 56,
57, 58, 60, 63, 71, 77, 79, 86,
89, 90, 99, 100, 101, 194, 195,
196, 197, 211.
Provencal, Courses in......187
Psychology, Courses in.....176
Psychological Laboratory... 39
Quan Medal .................. 26
Regulations Governing Ad-
mission to the Colleges 19
Romance Languages, Courses
in .................. 184
Scholarships	........... 24
Science Hall	........... 13
Science, The	College	of....	45
Science, Program of	General	54
Science, Courses in Elemen-
tary ................ 207
Short Programs in
Architecture .........98, 101
Electrical Engineering... 85
Mechanical Engineering.. 78
Shops, The ................. 15
Shopwork, Courses in.......168
Sociology, Courses in......183
Societies .................  33
Sorin Hall ................. 15
Spanish, Courses in ........185
Special Students........23, 103
Students, List of........ 219
St. Joseph Hall.......... 17
System of Instruction.... 18
Title (Legal) of the Univer-
sity ....................... 11
Theater, The University....	13
Trustees, Board of........ 4
Tuition Fees ...........33,	217
University of Notre Dame..	11
Walsh Hall............... 16
Washington Hall ............ 13
Zoology, Courses in...... 187
It is desired that every graduate receive a
copy o f the Bulletin..-.' ' The Faculty will there-
fore consider it a favor to be notified in case
an Alumnus changes his address.
' On application to the President, bulletins
will be sent to all who are interested in the,
'■ work of the University.. ■ ■''\ : ?, ■;K ■'. ■...