Series IV.
Number IV.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
Chemical and Mining Engineering
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
April, 1909
Entered at the Postoffi.ce, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class
matter, July 17, 1905.	'
Chemical and Mining Engineering;
A course in Mining Engineering was begun at the
University Sept., 1908, and in Sept., 1909, Chemical En-
gineering will be open to students wishing to take up the
work peculiar to this course.
The demand for such training as will afford a chemist
a fair understanding of the subjects essential to Mechani-
cal and Electrical Engineering makes a course in Chemical
Engineering desirable. Eor this course there will be
required a greater number of hours per week than for
other Engineering courses with the exception of Mining
Engineering, but the ground covered and the information
imparted will be worth the extra effort.
Mining Engineering will make even greater demands
on the student as far as hours of work are concerned.
It is not possible to equip the mining engineer satis-
factorily for his work without familiarizing him with the
work set down in the program of studies, (E- M.
Program) that follows.
The four year course in Chemical Engineering leads to
the degree of Chemical Engineer, (Ch. E.) The four
year course in Mining Engineering leads to the degree of
Engineer of Mines, (E. M.) The requirements for ad-
mission to the courses of either Chemical or Mining
Engineering are the same as those required for entrance
to any course of Engineering.
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
3
REQUIREMENTS FOR ADMISSION
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as-
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and solid, including the solution of'
simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb,
or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States; Fed-
eral Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of ancient, medieval and
modern history.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr's text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures, illustrated by
experiments and recitations from a text-book like Carhart
and Chute's or Gage's. laboratory work is also required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry, labora-
tory work required.	'
Botany, Physiology and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must
present a three years’ course in German.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon books required to be read in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for
writing an essay.
If the applicant passes these examinations satisfactorily
he may begin at once the regular Freshman work; but
if he is deficient in any one or more subjects he may
enter conditionally and make up his deficiency as soon as.
possible in the Preparatory School of the University.
Credits from high schools or preparatory schools in
good standing will be accepted in place of examinations..
4
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER*
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	18	I	Anal. Geom.	5	18	II
Chemistry	4	6	II	Chemistry	4	6	II
Drawing	3	14	I	Drawing	3	14	II
Shopwork	3	22	XlVa	Shopwork	3	22	XlVb
Mining Eng’ng.	5	23	I	Mining Eng’ng. Surveying	5 5	23 9	I II,III
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	18	III	Calculus	5	19	IV, V
R. R. Surveying	5	11	VI, VII	Adv. Surveying	5	10	IV, V
Physics	5	24	II,III	Physics	5	24	II, III
Chemistry	4	7	V	Chemistry	4	7	V
Drawing	1	15	V	Drawing	1	15	V
Crystallog’phy	5	16	IV	Mineralogy	5	16	II
JUNIOR YEAR.
Anal. Mechanics	5	11	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	2	12	X
Geodesy	4	12	IX	Hydromechan.	3	13	XVI
English	3	15	I	Petrography	2	17	V
Mineralogy	3	16	II	Geology	4	16	I
Drawing	3	15	VIII	Drawing	3	15	VIII
Shopwork	3	22	XIV e	Shopwork	3	22	XlVf
				Chemistry	5	9	XV
SENIOR YEAR.
Metallurgy	3	23	I	Assaying	8	23	II
Physical and Chern. Geol.	3	17	VI	Economic Mining Geol.	2	17	VII
Petrography	2	17	V	Graphic Statics	5	13	XV
Thermodynam.	5	19	I	Thermodynam.	3	19	II
Materials of Engineering Shopwork	2 3	20 22	II XIV f	Thesis			
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
5
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER.
FRESHMAN YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Week	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	18	I	Anal. Geom.	5	18	II
Chemistry	4	6	II	Chemistry	4	6	II
Drawing	3	14	I	Drawing	3	14	II
French	5	15	I	French	5	15	I
English	3	15	I	English	3	15	I
Shopwork	3	22	XlVa	Shopwork	3	22	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR.
Calculus	5	18	III	Calculus	5	19	IV, V
Physics	5	24	II,III	Physics	5	24	II,III
Drawing	2	14	III	Drawing	2	14	III
Chemistry	4	7	V	Chemistry	4	7	V
Shopwork	3	22	XIV c	Shopwork	3	22	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR.
Chemistry	5	7	VI	Chemistry	5	9	XV
Physics	3	24	IV	Physics	3	24	IV
Anal.Mechanics	5	11	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	2	12	X
Kinematics	3	21	V	Hy dromechan.	3	13	XVI
Drawing	2	15	V	MachineDesign	3	21	VI
Drawing	3	15	VIII	V alve Gears	2	21	VII
				Chemistry	2	7	VIII
				Steam Boilers	3	20	IV
SENIOR YEAR.
Chemistry	6	7	IX	Chemistry	7	7	IX
Chemistry	3	8	XIII	Chemistry	4	8	XI
Chemistry	5	9	XIV	Chemistry	5	9	XIV
Thermodynam.	3	19	I	Thermoydnam.	3	19	I
Mechanic’lLab.	3	22	VIII	Thesis			
6
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
SUMMER WORK.
Students taking tlie course of Mining Engineering are
required to take a six weeks trip into mining regions,
previously selected, during the summer preceding the
senior year. The object of this trip is to familiarize the
student with actual mining operations. Underground
workings, hoisting plants, shaft houses, mills and
smelters are thoroughly inspected. Practical work in
mine surveying is given in order that the student may
become familiar with the use of the transit underground.
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION.
CHEMISTRY.
II.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures
and recitations. A complete study of the elements and
their most important compounds, following the classifi-
cation based on MendeleefPs Law, and including a dis-
cussion of the theories of science. Text-book, Alexander
Smith's College Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(A) Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory
•course to accompany Course II. {ay the work consist-
ing of the preparation by the student of the elements and
their more typical compounds, determination of mole-
cular weights, verification of the fundamental laws of
chemistry, etc. During the latter part of the course,
•there is taken up the study of the reactions involved in
the separation and detection of the more common inor-
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
ganic bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of
salts, aud complex substances such as earths, ores,
ashes, etc. Text-books, Perkin, Thorp, supplemented
with lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and vol-
umetrically. Complete analysis of a number of simple
salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis of many
complex substances. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Four hours a week, with recitation, for two terms.]
VI.
{a} Elementary Organic Chemistry. lectures
■and recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their
properties. Special attention is given to the aliphatic
and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(#) Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prepara-
tion by the student in the laboratory of the most impor-
tant and typical organic compounds and the investigation
of their properties. Text-book, Gattermari s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Iron Analysis.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
8 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen, and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Advanced Organic Laboratory, (i) The
first term of this course is spent principally in the mak-
ing of organic preparations by methods demanding
special care, skill and accuracy in the student. (2) The
second term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis,
qualitative and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen,
the halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-bookSj
special notes and reference works.
[Ten to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
(a) Blrctrochbmistry. Lectures, experiments and
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and their
application in the chemical industries, separation of
metals, the preparation of chemical elements and elec-
trosynthesis of compounds. Text-books Classen and
Litpke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(£) EeECTrochemicae Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI. (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electrochemis-
try, electroylsis, electrosynthesis and electrometallurgy.
Quantitative determination of metals electrolytically.
Text-books, Litpke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(a) Physical Chemistry. Lectures, recitations
and demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
9
density, solutions, chemical dyamics, the phase rule,
thermochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van
Deventer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(£) Experimental Physical Chemistry. Lab-
oratory work to accompany Course XIII. («). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, molecular
weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling point
methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals. Special attention
given to advanced organic work.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric de-
terminations of inorganic substances. Special reference
work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
CIVIL ENGINEERING.
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table ; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supplying
omissions; obstacles to measurement; computations;
10 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
field notes and plots ; laying out land; parting ofi land;
dividing up land; public lands survey. Text-book,
Gillespie.
[Five hours a week for one term J
III.
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field ; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in
the class room ; practice in keeping field notes; computa-
tion and plots.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
IV.
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II. and
cannot be taken until the completion of that course. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds of
engineering instruments; problems pertaining to solar
attachment; topographical surveying with the transit
and stadia; mining surveying ; mining claims; survey of
mines with shafts and drifts; determining positions of
ends of tunnels, and depths below surface; theory of
hydrographic and city surveying; geodetic surveying and
leveling; measuring base lines; adjustments of angles,,
triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude and azimuth;
time and longitude; changing mean time into sidereal
time and sidereal time to mean time. Text-book,.
Johnson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Surveying. Fxercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the field, leveling; practice in hydro-
graphic surveying.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.].
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 1I
VI.	.
Railroad Surveying. This course comprises all the-
theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets ; obstacles to location of curves ; special
problems in curves; theory of compound curves ; turnouts,
and crossings; curving the rail on curves and elevation
of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical curves;,
earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory of excavation
and embankment; correction in excavation on curves
cross-section leveling; theory of the transition curve and
practical applications. Text-book, Searle, Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Railroad Surveying. Exercises in the field; staking-
out and running tangents, simple, compound and transi-
tion curves ; execution on the ground of many problems,
previously treated theoretically; survey for a short line
of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and setting slope
stakes ; making profiles aud maps ; calculating the neces-
sary excavations and embankments and cost of construc-
tion; culverts.
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises a
study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics, and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
students to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their resgective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation
12 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
of energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction,
etc.
[Five hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
IX.
Gfodbsy. This is an elementary course prescribed for
Civil and Mining Engineering students in the Junior
year, and comprises a study of the instruments and
methods of observation, base measurements and field
work of the triangulation ; methods of least squares,
elementary course; calculation of the triangulation, and
theory of probable errors; geodetic latitudes, longitudes,
and azimuths. This is followed by a brief discussion of
the figure of the earth. Text-book,Merriman.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Mechanics of Materials. This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students, and to
prepare them, by a study of the action and effect of
forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. This course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of the
materials of engineering, their properties and methods
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and continuous
beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns are examined
according to Euler’s, Rankine’s and other formulae, and
results compared. Some of the other subjects con-
sidered in this course, are torsion of shafts, the trans-
’ mission of power by shafts, apparent combined stresses,
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 13
such as flexure and compression, flexure and torsion, etc.
Compound columns and beams, reinforced concrete
beams, plate girders and other forms. Then is studied
the subjects, resilience and work, impact and fatigue,
true internal stresses, centrifugal tension .and flexure,
unsymmetric loads on beams,—the course closing with
a study.of the mathematical theory of elasticity.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the deter-
mina of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically deter-
mined by the application of the principles of the force
and equilibrium polygons; also the determination of
stresses in bridge trusses with -parallel chords and with
broken chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive-
wheel loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof
trusses, graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical and
unsymmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-ribs of
hinged ends and of fixed ends; stress diagrams; tem-
perature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied to
continuous girders. This course is supplemented by full
explanations, notes, examples, and problems. Text-book
Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XVI.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydrody-
namics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects submitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction ; Bernaulli’s theorem with
friction ; Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula; flow over
14
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
weirs, and through tubes ; flow in pipes; loss of head in
friction and other losses; flow in conduits, canals, and
rivers; velocities in cross sections; methods of gauging
the flow, measurement of water power, dynamic pressure
of flowing water; designing of waterworks and stand-
pipes ; hydraulic moters and relative merits; discussion
of water wheels of different types, and a study of the
conditions determing high efficiencies; classification of
turbines, and a complete study and discussion of the
different forms.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
DRAWING, MECHANICAL.
I.
Freehand. This course consists of sketching with
pencil and pen from flat copies and models of machine
parts, and freehand lettering, hater in the term, the use
of instruments, section-lining and lettering are taught.
Text-book, Jamisori s Elements.
* [Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the
principles of projection, methods of shop-drawing,
tinting, tracing, blueprinting, line-shading and the
preparation of working drawings of complete machines.
This course must be preceded by Course I. Text-book,
Jamisons Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates
is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and
.spherical projections, shades and shadows, perspective
-and isometric projections.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
15
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course I.
Text-book, Reed.
VIII.
Machine Drawing. A continuation of Course I.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine drawing
and the elementary principles of mechanical design with
calculation of dimensions and construction of drawings
from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low's Machine
Drawing and Design.
{Three hours a week for two terms.]
ENGLISH
I.
'(a) Sheran’s Handbook of Literary Criticism.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks for Mining Engineering
Students.]
[Three hours a week for twenty-six weeks for Chemical Engineer-
ing Students.]
(jj) Sears’ Methods and Principles of Criticism.
(Three hours a week for ten weeks for Chemical Engineering
Students.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the inflec-
tion of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the pronouns
the conjugation of reguar and the common irregular
verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses; the essentials
16 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
of French syntax, and the common idiomatic phrases.
Frequent practice in writing in all literary forms and
assigned readings. Reading of three of the following
works: La Tache du Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais ; LaMain Malheureuse, Guerber; Sans
Famille, Malot; Readings from French History, Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
GEOLOGY
I.
Geology, Principles of. Lectures, recitations, de-
monstrations. The study of the general features of the
earth ; the material composing the accessible parts of the
earth; the arrangements of the material in rocks; the
causes of geological changes; the history of the earth
and the various forms of life that existed in the different
periods of successive geological ages. Text-book,
Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Mineralogy. The object of this course is to train
the student to identify minerals by their physical
characteristics, such as crystal form, cleavage, color,
hardness and specific gravity without having to resort to
blowpipe or chemical tests except in the rare minerals.
Recitations are made upon drawers of minerals in which
the student points out the distinguishing features by which
he recognizes the different minerals. Text-book, Dana.
[Five hours for one term, three hours for one term.]
IV.
Crystallography. In this course there is made a
complete study of the laws in the different systems of
crystal formation, by means of laboratory work in models,
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 17
natural crystals and cleavage specimens. Text-book,
Williams.
V.
Petrography. This course is a study of rocks with
regard to their classification, structure, mineralogical
constituents., chemical composition and alterations; a
study of the physical characters of the minerals shown
in thin transparent rock sections with the aid of the
microscope; a practical study of rocks in the hand
specimens and also in summer field work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
.Geology, Physical and Chemical. A course treat-
ing of the origin and alterations of rocks, of general
eruptive and earthquake action, metamorphism, faulting,
jointing, and mountain building; the action of atmo-
spheric agencies, surface and underground waters. All
of which subjects are specially considered in their appli-
cation to mining pursuits. Text-book, Chamberlin and
Salisbury's Geology.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Geology, Economic Mining. A study of the genesis
of the useful ore deposits, both metallic and non-
metallic; an analysis of the relation existing between
structural, dynamic and chemical geology, petrography
and the ore deposits encountered in mining operations.
Frequent reference is made to the bulletins, monogrophs
and reports of the United States Geological Survey.
Lectures and recitations.
[Two hours a week for one tern.]
18 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the
binomial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice,
chance, variables and limits, series, determinants. Then
follows a thorough study of the general properties and
solution of equations, embracing the subjects of deriva-
tives, transformation, detached coefficients, surd and
imaginary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, Des Cartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem; Horner’s method. Text-book, Went-
worth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic G^ombtry. This course includes a study
of the point and right line; conic sections ; their equa-
tions and properties; discussion of the general equation
of the second degree containing two variables; different
systems of coordinates; transformation of coordinates;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane, and surfaces of
revolution; transformation of coordinates; quadric sur-
faces and supplementary propositions. Text-book,
Bailey and Woods.
‘ [Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Calculus, Difflrkntial. This course as also
Courses IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements
of Engineering students. It includes a study of the
methods for the differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic
and exponential, trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric
functions, successive differentiation, and differential co-
efficients ; treatment of implicit and compound functions;
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
19
expansion of functions; indeterminate forms; partial
differential coefficients of the first order and of higher
orders; direction of curvature; radius of curvature;
envelopes; maxima and minima of functions of one
independent ^variable, and of several independent vari-
ables ; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane areas
surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book, Osborne.
(Five hours a week for one term. [
IV.
Calculus, Integral. Integration of elementary
forms and of rational fractions; integration by rational-
ization and by parts; successive integration; multiple
integrals . definite integrals, limits of integration; double
integration applied to plane areas and surfaces of revo-
lution ; surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equa-
tion of a curve. This course is supplemented by numerous
exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for twelve weeks.]
Differential Equations. An elementary course for
Engineering students, supplementary to the course of
integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and first degree; equations of the first order, but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equations
with higher orders. Numerous applications to mechanics
and physics are introduced during the course. Text-
book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
20
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condensers, refrig-
erating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied in
detail. During the second term a study of the difficult
types of internal combustion engines is made together
with a general study of casts in operating power plants.
Frequent reference is made to trade catalogues, of which
an abundant supply should be obtained by the student.
Text-book, The Steam Engine by Holmes.
[Fours hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Materials of Knginebing. This course, supple-
mented by shop work and laboratory work in testing
materials of construction, is designed for the purpose of
acquainting the student with the properties or the ma-
terial he will use in his profession. Tensile and shearing
strength, elasticity and resistence are studied, together
with the effects of strain, intermittant' loading and
impact. The process of manufacture of the most im-
portant materials, is taken up, and estimates of the cost
of construction at market prices complete the work.
Text-book, Thurston1 s Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Steam Boilers. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of parts
from considerations of strains, thickness of shells, size
of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods of con-
nection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces and life of
boiler, are some of the subjects considered. The method
of determining the efficiency of fuels, heating surface,
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 21
heights of chimneys, boiler settings and materials used
in connection are also discussed. Text-book, Steam
and Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
* V.
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry of
machinery, the determination of the paths of the various
parts of an elementary combination and the constraining
of the parts to move in these paths. The general theory
is then applied to cams, and gear teeth, the relative motion
of machine parts and kinematic trains, belts, pulleys,
speed cones, link work and other aggregate combinations.
Barf s Kinematics of Machinery is the text-book used.
[Three hours recitation and two hours drawing a week for one
term.]
VI.
Machine Design. This work involves a study of
the form and strength of machine parts as applied in
designing, with computation of dimensions for fastenings,
bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth gearing, etc.
The derivation of rational formulae and the determina-
tion of empirical formulae are included and applied in
designing. The text-books used are Unwiri s Elements
of Machine Design, Low s Handbook for Mechanical
Engineers and Reed's Machine Design and Drawing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Valve Gears. This course includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to slide valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hack worth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy are
treated in the same way, and in conclusion the student is
made familiar with the various types of Corliss valves,
22
Bulletin o£ the University of Notre Dame
shifting eccentrics and link motions. The text-book is
Halsey* s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
»	VIII.
Mechanical Taboratory. The work taken up in-
cludes a study of the methods of testing the steam engine
under varying running conditions, valve setting, cali-
bration of thermometers, gauges and indicator springs,
use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dynamometers.
Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc. Text-book,
Carpenter* s Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
SHOPWORK.
XIV.	,
(a) Woodwork. Exercises in planing, splicing,
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(£) Application op Carpentry to pattern making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(E) Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
{d) Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping,
tool making, tempering and case hardening.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(^) Benchwork in iron, including surface chip-
ping, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame 23
(/) Accurate Work on lathe, planer, shafting and
milling machines. Construction of machine tools, reamers,
taps, twist drills, gear wheels and complete machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
METALLURGY.
I.
•»
Mrtaiaurgy. Among the subjects studied in this
course are the following—classification of ores, sampling,
crushing, milling practice, roasting and smelting; the
various extraction processes of the following metals—
gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, are given special
attention; the production of pig iron in blast furnaces.
A trip of inspection is made to smelting plants, blast
furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order to
familiarize the student with metallurgy plants in
operation.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Assaying. This course consists of a series of actual
determinations of the quantity and value of gold, silver
and lead in the various ores by the crucible and
scorification methods of the fire assay; the assaying of
gold and silver bullion; determining the strength of
cyanide working solutions; the assay of gold bearing
cyanide solutions; and wet determinations of copper and
zinc.
[Eight hours a week for one term.]
MINING ENGINEERING
-	I.
Mining Engineering, Principles of-. This course
includes a general study of Mining operations divided into
24
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
the following subjects: occurrence of minerals in the
earth’s crust, discovery, boring, excavation, supporting
excavations, exploitation, haulage, hoisting, drainage,
ventilation, lighting access, ore dressing and treatment.
Text-book, Foster and Brough.
PHYSICS.
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I., .Elementary Physics. Mathematical principles
are applied to physical phenomena. Special attention is
paid to accuracy in the mathematical work and in the
statements of the principles involved, lectures and recita-
tions. Text-book, Hastings and Beach.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
♦ Physical Problems. The application of mathematics
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
time. Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity
and magnetism. The work is done in the laboratory and
the student is taught to depend on his own resources and
to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Special advanced work in
heat, light, mechanics, sound, electricity, and magnetism.
Accuracy in observations and in the calculation and
recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they are
following. This course must be preceded by Courses
II. and III.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
25
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensionsions of this building are 320 by 150
feet; it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a
dome 207 feet in height. The executive offices, two
study-halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the
dining-rooms are in this building. The Library and the
Bishops’ Memorial Hall are also here temporarily. This
building, like all the others of the University, is lighted
by electricity and gas, and heated by steam. The corridors
of the first floor are decorated with mural paintings by
Gr egori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet in
ground dimensions and 125 in height from the floor to
the roof-ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 55,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
departments of literary criticism, history, political science
and the Greek and Latin classics are well represented.
Special libraries containing reference works on technical
subjects are provided in the Colleges of Engineering and
Science. The College of Law has a complete library of
its own. Ample reading room is provided in the main
library. The best literary magazines and reviews, as
well as the current numbers of scientific and technical
journals are kept on file. Students have access to the
Library from 8:00 A. M. to 9:00 p. M.
26
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width, and
about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms of the
Department of Music, the reading rooms for Brownson
and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre. The
Theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings. It
will seat 1,200 persons, lectures by men eminent in
public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and .plays by professional companies are also presented
in this theater. The dramatic clubs of the University
present five plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall. Its
dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three stories
in height. A large central space, the full height of the
building, is occupied by a museum containing mineral,
fossil, and biological specimens. The departments of
Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil Engineering,
Philosophy, Botany and Biology have recitation rooms
and laboratories in this building. The equipment for
each of these departments is extensive and complete.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is well
arranged for convenience of study. The zoological col-
lection on the second floor at present fills sixteen large
cases and represents typical forms of all the orders and
genera of vertebrate and invertebrate animals. A large
collection of representative vertebrate skeletons forms a
considerable part of the Museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists of
two complete Herbaria, one of the United States, the
other of Canada. There is also a second collection of
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
27
the woods and fruits of the United States, almost com-
plete.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy the
first floor. These collections are arranged in a series of
cases on each side of the building. In one series is a
carefully classified collection of minerals and ores. The
opposite series of cases contains a large geological collec-
tion ; some of the specimens here are of the rarest fossil
remains of animal and plant life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first fioor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture rooms. The second floor is
occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and contains
a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern drug store,
a lecture room and museum, a library for pharmaceutical
publications, and a general stock-room. The general
inorganic, organic and elementary chemical laboratories
are on the third floor. Bach laboratory is provided with
ample hood accommodations, and each desk is furnished
with water, gas and suction.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the me-
chanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop and
foundry. The second floor provides the shop for wood
work and also contains a well lighted drawing room
where students in designing may consult complete work-
ing drawings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
28
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Labora-
tories and is designed for an equatorial telescope and
for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial telescope
now in the building is intended for students of astronomy,
and is in use whenever favorable weather permits.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a bnilding 230 by 200 feet in
dimensions. The track-hall is now 100 by 180 feet on
the ground; it is used for indoor meets, winter baseball
practice, basketball and military drill. The gymnastic
hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with a full set of
apparatus; below that are the offices, dressing-rooms
and shower-baths. Friends of the University and the
alumni contributed more than three thousand dollars to
the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier Field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten acres
of ground, and is a gift to the University from Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, C. B., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University, Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson,
Carroll, St. Joseph Halls, the Infirmary, Holy Cross
Hall, Dujarie Hall, the Community House, the Presby-
tery, and Saint Bdward’s Hall.
9
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
29
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his own
curriculum conformably to his natural liking, the career
in life he may have in view, or the determinate intel-
lectual bent developed during his secondary school years;
but, though he is free to elect his own studies, he has not,
however, unlimited freedom in this respect. The prin-
ciple of general election is modified. Lest the young
Freshman in his inexperience choose unwisely, he is
aided in making his choice of studies by being permitted
to select from among a number of parallel programs
leading to baccalaureate degrees. Sixteen programs are
open for his choice in the Colleges, each embracing
courses which, in the opinion of the Faculty, contribute
best to cultural, scientific or professional knowledge.
These programs are, in some cases, made elastic by the
introduction of elective courses, especialbHn the Junior
and Senior years. Students who wish to spend a limited
time in study and cannot complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special students
« and elect any courses for which their preparation has
fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for attendance at recitations and the time
necessary for preparation of recitations. One hour of
recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours of
laboratory work. The minimum number of credit hours
whi^h a student must carry is sixteen, the maximum
number which he may ordinarily carry is twenty.
Students who wish to take more work than is indicated
by the maximum requirements must apply by formal
petition to the Faculty for the requisite permission.
30 Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).$ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linens, per school year.................. 400.00
PAYABLE IN ADVANCE, as follows:
ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER:
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)...$ 10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition....... 250.00
Uuse of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to all
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the year. 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course...	5.00
Also, in this First Payment must be included any Extra Ex-
pense the student may wish to incur, such as charges for Private
Room, Special Courses (listed below).
ON JANUARY 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition......................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time absent at the opening of
the Terms, September and January. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic Year.
The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition during the
Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or part if the
student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules
and regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice;
and so likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself
from the University at any time or for any cause without proper
permission. However, an exception is made if it seems to be ex-
pedient for him to go to his home because of severe or protracted
illness. Degrees will not be conferred on any student whose account
with the University has not been settled.
'	OPTIONAL EXPENSES.
For whole Year of nearly Ten Months, Payable in Advance.
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free; Freshman.$50.00
Preparatory Students..............$80.00 and upwards.
Bulletin of the University of Notre Dame
3t
While the students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular courses of the programs they have entered, any of
the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic
Year, payable in advance. The charges will be pro rata for any
portion of the year.
Instrumental Music — Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment................$60.00
Use of Piano for Advanced
Students.......... 30.00
Telegraphy.......... 25.00
Typewriting-Pull Course 20.00
One month.......... 5.00
Phonography......... 25.00
Lessons on Guitar, Piute,
Cornet, Clarinet or
Mandolin........... 30.00
Lessons on Violin.... 60.00
Use of each Instrument.. 5.00
Vocal Culture........ 75.00
Elocution —Special
Course............ 10.00
“Scholastic” — College
Paper.................. 1.50
Artistic Drawing....... 35.00
Library Fee............ 5.00*
—
Physical Culture....... 5.00
GRADUATION FEE.
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00 ; Com-
mercial Course, $5.00.
REMARKS.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.	'
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
LABORATORY FEES.
Physical Laboratory, III..............................$	5.00
Physical Laboratory, IV.............................. 15.00
Shopwork, per term................................... 15.00
Chemistry, IL, VI., VIII., IX., XL, XIII., each...... 10.00
Chemistry, V......................................... 20.00
Mineralogy, II., Sophomore Year...................... 10.00
Mineralogy, II., Junior Year.........................  5.00
Crystallography, IV................................... 2.00
Petrography, V........................................ 5.00
Metallurgy, 1......................................... 5.00
Assaying, II......................................... 15.00