UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame, Indiana
Series VII.
Number L
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL CATALOGUE
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
July, 1911
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, 1905
2
bulletin of thb
r X > *-
* * ■“ 1
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The Faculty—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notrf Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Haix in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley line
runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is 41 degrees, 43
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable
for a heathful climate where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great fatigue or
danger to health.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	3

CALENDAR FOR 1911-12.
1911
^.,7 Sept. 8, 9.
Entrance Examinations and Examination of
Conditioned Students in the Preparatory
School.
18.
24.
Preparatory School Opens.
Entrance Examinations and Examinations of
Oct.	13.
27.
Nov. 1.
2, 4.
30.
Dec. 6.
8.
9-
20, 21.
22,
1912
Jan. 5.
30, 31.
Deb.	16.
22.
March 2, 4.
17.
19.
April 7.
8.
May 1, 3.
20.
30.
June i.
10, 12.
12, 14.
13.
i4-
16.
17.
Conditioned Students in the Colleges.
Colleges Open.
Reading of University Regulations in all the
Halls.
Pounder’s Day. No Classes.	t
Annual Retreat begins in the evening A’)
Peast of All Saints. No Classes.(uM^ '
Bi-Monthly Examinations. (J
Thanksgiving Day. No Classes. {Positively no
permission to spend Thanksgiving at home.)
President’s Day. No Classes. “yL
Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No Classes
The William P. Breen Medal Orations. |
Bi-Monthly Examinations, n .
Christmas Vacation Begins:
Classes Regume^/TiJ-AA)
Term Examinations. A
term Jtvxammauons. .yv . v
State Oratorical Contest'.^z^uJ
Washington’s Birthday.: No^ Classes. ^Presen- .
tation of Elag by the Senior Class^
Bi-Monthly Examinations. rp j
St. Patrick’s Day. No Classes.w
St. Joseph’s Day. No Classes.!9	.} AI
Easter. No Easter Vacation.	f'
Easter Monday. No Classes.
Bi-Monthly Examinations.
Latest Date for Handing in Prize Essays and
Graduating Theses in all the Colleges.
Decoration Day. No Classes.
f The Patrick T. Barry Medal Recitations.
J The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations.
Examination of Candidates for Graduation.
Examinations in Preparatory School.
Commencement in Preparatory School.
Vacation in Preparatory School Begins.
Baccalaureate Sermon. Meeting of the Alumni.
Commencement. Bachelors’ Orations, 10:00
a.
Commencement Address and Grad-
18, 19.
nation Exercises, 8:oo p. m.
Examinations in the Colleges.
4
bulletin of the
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C„
secretary.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C., '
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.,
treasurer.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
5
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
president.
Rew THQMAS-^RUMEEY, -Cr-S^C^
rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
director of studies.
rev, JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
PREFECT of discipline.
Bro. AEBAN, C S, C.,
secretary.
6
BULLETIN OB THE
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. 8. C.,
Special English.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Special Philosophy.
REV. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology and Geology. ,
Rev. JOHN BERNARD SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev PATRICK CARROLL, C. S. C.,
Irish History.
REV. MICHAEL OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Debating and Oratory.
Rev. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C,
Chemistry and Botany.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
' Political Economy and History.
Rev. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C. S. C*
English.
REV. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
Sociology and History.
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
Rev. CHARLES L. O’DONNELL. C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. MIECESLAUS SZALEWSKI, C. S. C.,
Polish Language and History.
REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. JOHN TALBOT SMITH, LL. D.,
Lecturer on English Literature.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.
- DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.	.
* Omitted by mistake in 1909-10.
8
bulletin of the
MARTIN McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.
TIMOTHY HOWARD HOWARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Mechanical Drawing.
JEROME JOSEPH GREEN, M. E. E. E.,
Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM. LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics and Surveying.
GALLITZIN EARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
Law.
ANDP.LW ANDERSON, ,
Law.
SEUMAS MacMANUS,
Lecturer on English Literature.
JAMES HINES, Ph. B.,
History.	,
ARTHUR LUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M„ LL. D„
Law.
ROBERT LEE GREEN, Ph. G.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME *	9
Charles petbrsen, a. m.,
German.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B., B. S. A.,
Architecture.
BRANCIS WYNNB KERVICK, B. S. in Arch.,
Architecture.
KNOWLES B. SMITH, B. M.,
Mining Engineering.
JOSEPH CALLAHAN, A. M., LL. B.
Law.
JOSE A. CAPARO, M. C. E., B. E.
Mathematics.
WILLIAM B. BARRELL, A. B.
History.
JOHN WORDEN, B. S.,
Freehand Drawing and Modeling.
JOHN B. O’HARA,
Spanish.
BRANCIS POWERS, M. D.,
Attending Physician.
WILLIAM BUDD KELLEY,
Shopwork.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.
&
IO
BULLETIN OF THE
DIRECTORS OE HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
REV. JAMES FRENCH, C. S. C.
REV. GEORGE O’CONNOR^ C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
REV. WALTER LAVIN, C. S. C.
REV. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.
REV. PATRICK DALTON, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL
REV. JOHN FARLEY, C. S, C.
REV. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.
REV. CHARLES L. O’DONNELL,C. S. C.
WALSH HALL
REV. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C:
REV. MICHAEL OSWALD,-C. S. C.
REV. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.
REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS,^. S C.
BROWNSON HALL
BRO. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C. ,
BRO. HUGH, C. S. C.
BRO. CASIMIR, C. S. C.
BRO. CAMILLUS, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL	C . / C .
BRO. JUST, C. S. C.
BRO. GEORGE, C. S. C.
BRO. MAURITIUS, C. S. C.
BRO. ALOYSIUS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.
BRO. FLORIAN, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
BRO. CAJETAN, C. S. C.	BRO. BEDE, C. S. C.
BRO. ALANj-C. S. C.
DUJARIE HALL
BRO. AIDAN, C. S. C.	BRO. JOSEPH, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Bdward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Bdward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body, corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac/ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,,
and in law and medicine, as is customary in other
universities in the United States.”
12
BUBLFTIN of tub
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-
halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-
rooms are in this building. The Library and the
Bishop’s Memorial Hall are also here temporarily.
This building, like all the others of the University,
is lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by steam.
The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
in ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof ridge. The interoir is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32
bells and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 55,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
department of literary criticism, history, political
science and the Greek and Latin classics are well rep-
resented. Special libraries containing reference works
on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science. The College of Law has
a complete library of its own. Ample reading room
is provided in the main library. The best literary
magazines and reviews, as well as current numbers
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
13
of scientific and technical journals are kept on file.
Students have access to the Library from 8:00 A. M.
to 9:00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width,
and about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms
of the Department of Music, the reading rooms for
Brownson and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre.
The theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings.
It will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent
in public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also pre-
sented in this theatre. The dramatic clubs of the
University present several plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall.
Its dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three
stories in height. A large central space, the full height
of the building, is occupied by a museum containing
mineral, fossil and biological specimens. The de-
partments of Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil
Engineering, Philosophy, Botany and Biology have
recitation rooms and laboratories in this building.
The equipment for each of these departments is ex-
tensive and complete. Description of the equipment
will be found later in this catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is
well arranged for convenience of study. The zoological
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative ver-
14
BULLETIN of the
vertebrate skeletons froms a considerable part of
the museum.
The botanical collection, also on this floor, consists
of two complete Herbaria, one of the United States,
the other of Canada. There is also a second collection
of the woods and fruits of the United States, almost
•complete.
The collection in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a
series of cases on each side of the building. In one
series is a carefully classified collection of minerals
and ores. The opposite series of cases contains a large
geological collection; some of the specimens here
are of the rarest fossil remains of animal and plant
life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture room. The second floor
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and
•contains a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern
drug store, a lecture room and museum, a library for
pharmaceutical publications, and a general stock room.
The general inorganic, organic and elementary chemical
laboratories are on the third floor. Bach laboratory
is provided with ample hood accomodations, and each
desk is furnished with water, gas and suction.
THE SHOP
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
15
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop
for wood work and also contains a well lighted drawing
room where students in designing may consult complete
workings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market. .
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Lab-
oratories and is designed for an equatorial telescope
and for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial
telescope now in the building is intended for students
of astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students
of Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of
the Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room and
a law library. The building is lighted with electricity
and heated with steam. In the basement are rec-
reation rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with rec-
reation rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted
with electricity and gas and heated with steam.
WALSH HALL
This newest dormitory building is situated South
of Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions
16	BULLETIN op the
are 230 feet by 41 feet. It faces Bast and all the
front rooms are made up of suites each consisting
of a commodious study room, flanked on either side
by a bed-room. Attached to each suite is a private
bath and toilet. Bach room is supplied with hot
and cold water. The rear rooms are singles and the
general toilet and bath rooms are of hollow, fire-proof
tile, walls and ceilings covered with wire lath and
plaster, making practically a fire proof building. It
is equipped with a distinct system of stand-pipes for
fighting fire. The entire corridor floors are built of
reinforced concrete, covered with Roman ceramic
mosaics. In finish and equipment Walsh Hall is
believed to be the best college dormitory building
in America. It embraces three stories, besides the
admirable basement and attic, and it is capable of
accommodating over a hundred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of
age and upwards. There is a common study hall,
a common lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms
in which each student has an alcove curtained to secure
a personal privacy. Bxperience shows that the dis-
cipline of these common rooms works admirable effects
on students who have not yet contracted solid habits
• of study.
.	CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Adminis-
tration Building. It is in all respects similar to Brown-
son Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
1
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME ’	17
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
between the .ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively
to living and study rooms. In this building live those
students w’ho defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The
conditions for admission to this-hall are: (i) The pay-
ment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the ‘
first of August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter.
The waiting in no wise interferes with the student’s
work, and all the educational advantages are open
to him. It is to be regretted that through the lack
of endowment the University can offer only a limited
number of such opportunities each year. It is neces-
sary to apply early for these appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
The building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for-
the use of students during illness. The sick are cared
for by Sisters of Holy Cross, and the University phy-
sician visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM	'
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet
on the ground. The track-hall is now 100 by 180
feet on the ground; it is used for indoor meets, winter
baseball practice, basketball and military drill. The
. gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with
a full set of apparatus; below .that are the offices,
dressing-rooms and shower baths. Friends of the
bulletin or THE
18
University and the alumni contributed more than
three thousand dollars to the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten
acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. B-, of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
'There are numerous other large buildings con-
nected with the University, Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie
Hall, the Community House, the Presbytery, and
Saint Bdward’s Hall, the last named being a school
for children under the age of thirteen, in care of the
Sisters of Holy Cross.
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
selective system. The student is free to select his
•own curriculum conformably to his natural liking,
the career in life he may have in view, or the deter-
minate intellectual bent developed during his secondary
.•school years; but, though he is free to elect his own
studies, he has not, however, unlimited freedom in
‘.this respect. The principle of general election is mod-
ified. Lest the young Freshman in his inexperience
«choose unwisely, he is aided in making his choice of
: studies by being premitted to select from among a
^number of parallel programs leading to baccalaureate
•degrees. Bighteen programs are open for his choice
.in the Colleges, each embracing courses which, in the
opinion, of the Faculty, contribute best to cultural,
..scientific or professional knowledge. These programs
university or notre dame
19
are, in some cases, made elastic by the introduction
of elective courses, especially in the Junior and Senior
years. Students who wish to spend a limited time
in study and can not complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special students
and elect any courses for which their preparation has
fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for preparation of recitations. One hour
of recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours
of laboratory work. The minimum number of credit
hours which a student must carry, except in his Senior
year is sixteen, the maximum number which he may
ordinarily carry is twenty. Students who wish to
take more work than is indicated by the maximum
requirements must apply by formal petition to the
Faculty for the requisite permission.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION TO THE
COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the 'Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by
a properly attested certificate, of ability to enter on
the courses of the Freshman year. The specific sub-
jects required for entrance will be found later in this
catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for ad-
mission to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, at the beginning of the Fall Term and in
January at the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory exami-
nations in one or more of the subjects required for
admission to any college program may, at the dis-
cretion of the Faculty, be admitted to his class con-
20
OB TUB
ditioned, to make up his deficiency by extra study
'within one school year. Only when the conditions
are removed will the student be admitted to full stand-
ing in his class.
Students who have completed a four year course
in High Schools or Preparatory Schools of recognized
standing will be admitted without examination to
the Freshman year of any program to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing
who are required to take examinations must pass,
in addition to the usual entrance examinations, an
examination in the work already done by the classes
they desire to enter. The additional subjects may
be found in the several programs of studies described
later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present
certificates from other colleges or universities may
be received at the discretion of the Faculty with or
without examination as regards particular cases.
No students will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIOUS COLLEGES IN SUBJECTS AND UNITS
COLLEGES
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
SUBJECTS	ARTS	letters}	SCIENCE	ENGINEERING	ARCHITECTURE		LAW
	Units	Units	Units	Units	Units		Units
KtiHish			4			4		4		4		4		4
Latin			Z|		4		*>				. 2 or 4... .
Greek	.			3						
T?rpnr1i nr			g		3	3		o*
TTmtorv			O		2							o
A Tephra			T	r		. . . . I X- • • •	.... i X • • • •	.... iX- • • •		i
Clpnm^trv	T	T	. . . . I X • ...	.... i X • • • •	.... i X • • • •		T
Trieonomefrv				X- ■ • •		X- • • •		X- • • •		
Ohprmqtrv	p		f		T	r		I			t	
D h v <51 c <5		1 ’	.... I		T		I			
Botany, Physiology, Zoology, Physiography.... Era wine							
	y	> 1		X- • • ■	.... x		.... x		J	
Elective .	.						T	T		3
							
T o tai	. ..16		.... 16		....16		.. . .16		....16			...16	
							
* Four units of language required, f For admission to the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Law one unit of Science is required,
t Including Department of Letters and Department of History and Economics.
22
bulletin OF THF
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by
the University will be found described in this cat-
alogue. Written theses and formal examinations are
demanded of all candidates for degrees. One full
scholastic year of resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by-fixed programs through-
out the four scholastic years. In the College of Arts
and Letters one of three degrees is conferred on an
undergraduate—Bachelor of Arts^ (A. B.), Bachelor
of Letters (Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.)—
dependent on the special program of studies the can-
didate selects. The College of Science offers six (6) de-
grees for choice to undergraduates—Bachelor of Science
(B. S.), Bachelor of 'Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.),
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Bachelor
of Science in Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.), Graduate in
Pharmacy (Ph. G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.).
The College of Engineering offers five degrees—Civil
Engineer (C. E.), Mechanical Engineer (M. E-), Elec-
trical Engineer (E. E.), Mining Engineer (E. M.),
and Chemical Engineer (Ch. E-)- Two degrees are
offered by the College ©f Architecture—Bachelor of *
Science in Architecture (B. S. A.), and Bachelor of
Science in Architectural Engineering (B. S. A. E.).
The College of Law offers the degree of Bachelor of
Laws (LL. B.). In the College of Music one degree
is offered—Bachelor of Music (B. M.). In order to
obtain this degree the candidate must have studied
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
23.
music in the University for one complete year. He*
must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of four
instruments mentioned in the courses described later,
and a practical mastery of one of them. He shall
pass a written examination in harmony, counter-
point and composition, and he must submit to the
examiner two ®riginal compositions: (a) a fugue for
full orchestra, or for four voices with independent
orchestral accompaniment: (b) a composition in the
free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a trio
(pianoforte, violin and violincello.)
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one-
complete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who
make application to the Committee of the Faculty
on Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing ad-
vanced work. All work must be approved by this
Committee. One year of residence, at least, is re-
quired of candidates who have received their Bachelor’s
degree at another college. Those who have received
their Bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in
some cases to be determined by the Committee, obtain
the Master’s degree for work done in absentia* One
major and one or two minor courses will constitute
the curriculum, forming a consistent, coordinated
plan of advanced work pursued with some definite
aim. On completion of the required work the candidate
* No degree is conferred in honor em except the degree of Doc-
tor of Laws (LL. D.).
24
BULLETIN OB THE
must pass a satisfactory examination in writing, under
the professors who give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a dis-
sertation of notable merit on some topic connected
with his major subject, the thesis to contain in the
minimun five thousand words. The subject of the
thesis must be announced to the Committe by December
i, and submitted for examination by May 15. Dive
printed or typewritten copies of the thesis must be
presented to the University to be placed in the library.
The fee for examination of work done in' absentia is
twenty-five dollars. The fee for this degree is fixed
at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity wrork before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these must be spent at .Notre Dame
and one may be passed at some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty of Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactorily ex-
aminations in French and German on entrance. The
work for the degree shall consist of one major and two
minor courses of instruction approved by the Committee.
Research study shall form the most important part
of the candidate’s work. On completion of his work
the candidate must pass minute examinations’ on the
three subjects of his curriculum and must defend his
dissertation before the whole Faculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies
presented to the University. A copy of the thesis
must be handed to the Committee one month before
the examinations. The degree will not be conferred
•for merely faithful work, and not for miscellaneous
study, but for original research and for high attain-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	25
ment in one branch of study. The fee for this degree
is fixed at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates
for a degree by following the prescribed courses of
any program may register as special students and
attend any of the courses of instruction for which
their previous academic training has fitted them.
Such special students are governed by the same regu-
lations and discipline as the other undergraduates.
They are required to pass the same examinations in
the courses they pursue as the other students. In
exceptional cases men of mature age, who have been
out of school or college for several years, but whose
training in practical affairs have been sufficiently
educative, will be accepted as special students by
satisfying the Faculty of their ability to pursue with
profit any course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may
receive on application certificates stating their pro-
ficiency in the courses they have pursued.
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has at present only four foundations
which yield revenues for the support and tuition of
four students annually. Assignment of these scholar-
ships is made under restrictions indicated with each
gift. No student will be continued in the enjoyment
of a scholarship whose superiority in college work is
not clearly indicated in his first year of residence.
Nor will a student who has incurred serious censure
by breech of the regulations of the University be con-
sidered again as a candidate for a scholarship.
26	BUU/BTIN OF The
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of endow-
ment makes it impossible for the University to give
place to a greater number of deserving students who
are not able to pay the charges of board and tuition.
Under conditions indicated on page 17 of this catalogue
a limited number of deserving student-waiters can
be received at reduced rates. Certain clerkships in
the University offices and positions in the libraries
are also open to worthy students. Information re-
garding the assignment of these places will be furnished
by the President. The University is doing all in its
power to assist students in narrow circumstances.
The friends of Notre Dame are asked to assist in this
work.
THE JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Bdward Johnson, of Watertown, Wis-
consin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the income
of which aids in the support of one student annually.
By the terms of the gift assignment is made only to
a student who intends to enter the priesthood.
THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
/ The Reverened Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Penn-
sylvania, bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899.
The terms of the bequest specify that the income shall
be used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Pord, of Chicago, gave to
the University certain properties for the maintenance
of worthy students. The income arising from this
gift now supports fully two students annually. By
the wish of the donor nominations for these scholar-
ships are made from St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
27
PRIZES
The following prizes and honors within the gift
of the University are awarded annually under con-
ditions named below. Any of these prizes may be
withheld by the Faculty if the student incur serious
censure for violating any of the regulations of the
University.
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who
has obtained the best record in the Senior year of the
Classical Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. William
J. Quan, of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition
that the record of the student is notably good in alii
the courses of instruction prescribed for the Senior-
year.	-
THE MASON MEDAL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of Chi-
cago, is awarded each year to the student of the Pre-
paratory School whose scholastic record is superior
to that of his fellows. Observance of the University
regulations counts in the award. The prize may be
withheld if in the opinion of the Faculty the' record
of the student has not reached a high standard.
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan,
of Covington, Ky., is awarded every year to the Senior
(under-graduate) who presents the best dissertation
in English. Essays offered in competition may be
on any subject approved by the head of the Depart-
ment of English. Those offered for graduation may
be presented in competition. The faculty will not
award the prize, if, in the opinion of the judges selected,,
the best essay is not notably meritorious.
'28
bulletin of the
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
Breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded
to the student who excels in oratory. The award is
made by a committee of three selected by the faculty
and after a public competition. The winner repre-
sents the University in the Indiana State Oratorical
Contest held the third Friday in every February. No
student mav recieve the Breen Medal more than once,
but the winner of this prize may compete again for
the honor of representing the University in the State
Contest.
There is also a ten-dollar prize offered for the winners
of the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Preparatory
contests in oratory.
THE MARTIN J. McCUE MEDAL FOR
CIVIL ENGINEERING
The McCue Medal for Civil Engineering, presented
by Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the Class
of ’87, is awarded to the student of the Department of
Civil Engineering who has obtained the best record in
all the courses prescribed in the program. The medal is
awarded only when the student’s record has attained a
.fixed standard. In computing the grades the courses in
mathematics count fifty per cent. Only students
who have been in residence for four full years are
eligible to compete for this prize.
THE MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Lyons Medal
-and the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every
year for excellence in elocution. The award is made
after competition in public. In order to be eligible
to compete, students must have followed at least
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
29,
two of the courses of instruction in public speaking.
One of the medals was founded in memory of Professor
Joseph A. Lyons, of the Class of ’62, who served the-
University as Professor of Elocution and Oratory
from 1872 to 1888. The other is a gift of Mr. Patrick
T. Barry, of Chicago.
THE PRIZE FOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to three
students who, in the opinion of a committee of judges
from without the Faculty, excel in debating. The
award is made after a competition in public. The
prize is divided, thirty dollars going to the student
who receives the highest marks, twenty-five dollars,
to the second, and twenty dollars to the third. The
three students who are successful in the competition
ordinarily represent the University in the principal
inter-collegiate debate of the year.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing-
will be sent to parents and guardians every two months.
The Faculty maintains that an education which
gives little attention to the development of the moral
part of a youth’s character is pernicious, and that,
it is impossible to bring about this development where
students are granted absolute- relaxation from all
Faculty government while outside the class-room
A young man must learn obedience to law" by the actual
practice of obedience.' Here students are required
to obtain permission for any departure from the regular
daily routine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
btjixftin of thf
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are enforced at the University.
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Laster.
3.	Students are required to report at the Uni-
versity immediately after arriving at South Bend.
This rule is binding not only at the beginning of the
scholastic year, but at all other times when leave of
absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in
South Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of
rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating
in examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, im-
morality, the use of profane and obscene language,
and an unauthorized absence from the University
limits are among the causes for expulsion. In case
of suspension or expulsion for such offenses, no fee
shall be returned.
5.	No branch of study shall be taken up or dis-
continued without the consent of the Director of
Studies.
f
6.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brown-
son, Carroll or St. Bdward’s Hall according to age;
boys seventeen years of age or older are placed in
Brownson Hall; those over thirteen and under seven-
teen, in Carroll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St.
Bdward’s Hall.
7.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls
as have received from their parents w’ritten permission
o use tobacco.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	31
8.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin
Corby or Walsh Halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
9.	Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
Catholic institution, and all students are required
to attend divine service in the University Church at
stated times.
10.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense
of study will not be permitted; but students are ex-
pected to take part in outdoor sports.
11.	A limited number of athletic contests is per-
mitted with college organizations from without.
12.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
of professionalism.
13.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members
of the Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve
the right of a final decision on all questions concern-
ing athletics. The Faculty Board will determine
the amateur standing of the members of the athletic
teams and aportion the finances. By this means
indiscreet and unconsidered action of students will
be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have ad-
dressed the University in the past few years may
be noted four Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli
and Martinelli, and Monsignor Falconio and Agius;
Archbishops Ireland, Riordan, Keane, Glennon and
Christie, and Bishops Spalding, Alerding, McQuaid,
32
BUIABTIN OB THB
Muldoon, O’Gorman and Shanley. There were also
such noted European churchmen as the Abbe Felix
Klein, Monsignor John S. Canon Vaughan andt the fore-
most of living English historians, Dom Gasquet; also
men of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford, Marion Craw-
ford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van Dyke, Seumas
MacManus, William Butler Yeats, James Jeffrey Roche,
Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read, Eeland Powers,
Henry James and the Rev. John Talbot Smith; and
such men of affairs as President Taft, ex-Vice-Pres-
ident Fairbanks, ex-Senator Hill, ex-Senator Beveridge,
ex-Attorney General Charles8 Jerome Bonaparte, ex-
Representative J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William
P. Breen, Representative Bourke Cochran, Dr. James
C. Monaghan, Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward
McDermott and His Excellency Wu Ting Fang.
Concerts are given frequently by organizations-
from without.
During the year iqio-’ii the University offered
a course of public lectures and concerts in Washing-
ton Hall, in addition to the regular and special lectures.'
required by the courses of instruction. The course:
was as follows:
DRAMATICS
Dec. 13. (President’s Day)—“The War ..Correspondent.”
—University Dramatic Ceub.
Mar. 17. “A King for a Day.”—Phieopatrians.
Apr. 17. “The Dictator.”—Senior Ceass.
CONCERTS
Sept. 12. Elbel’s Band.
13	((
14	i{	ce
16	.	“	“
Oct.- 8. Axel Skovgaard Concert Company
13. Ciricilla’s Italian Band.
25. Robley Male Quartette.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
33
Oct, 27. Rummel Concert Company.
Nov. 8. Victor’s Royal Venetian Band.
21. Thelma Rose Concert Company.
Reb. 11. Orphean Musical Club.
16.	Bostonia Sextette.
25.	Violin and Piano Recital.—Messrs. O’Sullivan and
Freund.
27.	Chicago Operatic Company.
Majr. 4. Paulist Choristers.
LECTURES
Oct. ’18. Illustrated Travel Talk.—Mr. Cy Warman.
Nov. 3. “India.”—Dr. Edgar Banks,
6.	“Hamlet.”—Dr. James J. Walsh.
7.	“The Religion of Shakespeare.”—Dr. James J. Walsh
12. Readings from his Poems.—Strickland W. Gillilan.
17. “The Man of the Hour.” Edward P. Elliott.
19. Readings from his Poems.—T. A. Daly.
Dec. 14. “Around the World with the Atlantic Fleet.” —
Franklin Matthews.
17. Brush, The Magician.
Jan. 11. Alton Packard, Cartoonist.
12.	Newman Travelogue.—“Austrian and Italian Tyrols”
13.	Professor O’Meara.—Miscellaneous Readings.
14.	Zwickey, The Cartoonist.
18.	Newman Travelogue.—‘ ‘Balkan States and Roumania
21.	“The Merchant of Venice.”—Rev. Arthur O’Malley,
25.	Newman Travelogue.—“Russia.”
26.	Seumas MacManus.—Bits of Wit and Humor.
Feb. i. Newman Travelogue.—“Norway, Sweden, and
Denmark.”	■
2. “Japan.”—Frederick B. Wright.
4. “The Panama Canal.”—A. J. Hammond.
7.	“David Garrick.”—Phidelah Rice.
8.	“The Servant in the House.”—Phidelah Rice.
8.	Newman Travelogue.—“India.”
9.	“The Battle of Gettysburg.”—Prof. R. W. Douthat.
17. “Samoa.”—Dr. W. B. MacDowell.
20. Fred Emerson Brooks.—Readings from his Poems
Mar, 10. Wallace Bruce Ansbary.—Miscellaneous Readings
25. “Dickens and his Works.”—H. Snowden Ward
34
bulletin op the
Apr. 3. John B. Ratto (Impersonations).
18. “The Modern Telescope.”—Prof. G-. W. Ritchey.
24. “The Human Body.”—Dr. James J. Walsh.
May 2. “The Nervous System.—Dr. James J. Walsh.
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies
in the University which do such creditable work at
their meetings and in preparation for them that their
work takes on the nature of added courses of instruction.
In each society a member of the Eaculty acts as adviser.
An Inter-Hall League has been formed and public
debates are held annually. The College of Law also-
has an active debating club. The training in public
speaking has always received special attention at
the University. In seventeen public debates with other
universities and colleges Notre Dame has but once
met defeat—the decision of the judges in the greater
number of these debates being unanimous. The Uni-
versity Dramatic Club and the Philopatrian Society
stage at least three plays annually for presentation in
public. The University Band, the University Orchestra,
and the University Glee Club also appear regularly
in concerts.
Students of the Department of Civil and Electrical
Engineering have each a society in which papers on
engineering subjects are read and discussed. Men
prominent in their profession are invited to lecture
to these societies. The Pharmaceutical Society meets,
to discuss subjects of interest in the world of pharmacy.
In other departments where no such formal organ -
ization has been effected similar results are reached
by seminars.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
35
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance)..........$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linen, per school year.............. 400.00
PAYABLE ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)............$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition........ 250.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to all
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the
year........................................... 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course. . . .	5.00
Spending money or orders for clothing will not be given
students unless a deposit- has been made for this purpose.
In this First Payment must also be included any Extra
. Expense the student may wish to incur, such as charges for
Private Room or Special Courses (listed below).
PAYABLE ON JANUARY 15
Balance on Board and Tuition....................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time of absence at the opening
•of the Terms, September and January. The charge of $400.00
-covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic
Year. The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for tuition
during the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole
or part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the
fundamental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby
brought to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving
.and absenting himself from the University at any time or for
any cause without proper permission. However, an exception
is made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home
because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not be
conferred on any student whose account with the University
has not been settled.
36
BULLETIN OF THE
OPTIONAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE
For the Scholastic Year:
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Tree, but a nominal
charge of $15.00 is made to defray expenses connected
with the care of rooms; Freshmen. . . .$50.00 and upwards.
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made
only to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions;
that is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the
Preparatory and Freshman work, otherwise regular rent will
be charged for rooms. Similarly, only unconditioned Fresh-
men are allowed the special rate quoted above.
Preparatory Students..............$80.00	and upwards.
While students as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular courses of the programs they have entered,
any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Scholastic Year, payable in advance. The charges are pro
rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment...............$60.00
Use of Piano for Ad
vanced Students. . . . 30.00
Telegraphy........... 25.00
Typewriting—Full Course
20.00
One month........... 5.00
Phonography.......... 15.00
Applied Electricity. . . . 25.00
Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
Cornet, Clarinet or
Mandolin............. 30.00
Lessons on Violin...... 60.00
*Use of each instrument 5.00
Vocal Culture.......... 75.00
Elocution—Special Course
10.00
1 ‘ Scholastic ’ ’ —College
Paper................... 1.50
Library Fee............ 5.00
Physical Culture....... 5.00
Laboratory fees listed later in this catalogue.
GRADUATION FEE
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00; Com-
merical Course, $5.00.
* As the string, and band instruments available for rent are few, students
taking up these studies are advised to furnish their own instruments.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
37
REMARKS
Term bills and other accounts are siibject to sight draft if not
paid -within ien days after they have been rendered.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory-
Fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post office money’
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will
be charged in all cases.
Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson and Carroll Halls are dosed
during the months of Judy and August. Students -wishing to spend
their Sttmmer Vacation under the care of the University author-
ities can be accommodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jos& Park is $100.00. Classes
(two hours per day) are included in this arrangement. Special
tutoring at professors1 rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at
reduced rates. For conditions of entrance see paragraph en-
titled St. Joseph’s Hall, page 17.
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
DEPARTMENT OF LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY AND ECONOMICS
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	3P
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
establishment of the College of Science in 1865, only one
program of prescribed courses of instruction leading
to a degree was offered to undergraduate students.
It embraced studies in the ancient and modern languages,
in Fnglish literature, in history, the natural sciences,
and in mathematics. Graduate students might ob-
tain a degree of, Master by advanced study one year
after obtaining the Bachelor’s degree. The group
of courses was known as the Program of Classics,,
and the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts
were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of
election in courses led the University in 1886 and again
in 1898 to form other programs which embraced certain
studies not contained in the Program of Classics, but
which lead to degrees equivalent to the degree of Bach-
elor of Arts. In the matter of election of courses
the student is permitted greater freedom in the pro-
gram leading to the degree of Bachelor of Letters than
in either of the other groups. The degrees now under-
charge of the College of Arts and Letters are the ordi-
nary degrees of Bachelor of.Arts, Bachelor of Letters,.
Bachelor of Philosophy and Master of Arts.
The location of the University offers special ad-
vantages of study. It is situated on a beautiful tract
where cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the-
noisy bustle of city life. This removal from the dis-
tractions of the town gives the students opportunity
to pursue their work with the quiet and concentration
needed for earnest study. Nearly all the Faculty
live on the grounds of the University, dine with the-
students, and are accessible to them at any time..
40
bulletin of thf
The benefits derived from this constant association
with professors can not be overestimated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and
laboratories. The main library has fifty-five thousand
bound volumes well selected and several thousand
pamphlets and manuscripts. The leading literary and
scientific reviews are kept on file. Books may be
borrowed under easy regulations. The library con-
tains ample reading room space and is well lighted so
that students may use it at night. It is open every
day from 8:oo o’clock A. M. to 9:00 P. M. There
are also special collections of books in the various
departments of the College, mainly works of reference.
Under certain conditions the city library of South
Bend is open to use by Students of the University.
The department of experimental psychology occupies
.a suite of three rooms on the ground floor of Science
Hall. The use of a dark room and a silent room may
.also' be had when need requires. The students have
access to the laboratory at all hours of the day and
up to ten o’clock at night. The equipment includes
apparatus and material sufficient for repeating all
the exercises in Sanford’s Manual, and most of the
exercises in Titchener’s Experimental Phychology, Volume
I. The laboratory is supplied with hot and cold water,
gas and electricity. At the beginning of the course,
the aim is to give students a wide acquaintance with
such familiar apparatus as the chronoscope, kymo-
graph, plethysomo graph, automatograph, primeter,
campimeter, tone variator, Galton whistle, Galton
bar, etc. For the study of special perceptions, there
is a set of stereoscopes, pseudoscopes, and accom-
panying slides. Provision is also made for the in-
vestigation of pressure, temperature, pain, taste, smell
and muscular sensation. Experiments in the field
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
41
of auditory perception are facilitated by three sets
of organ pipes, a set of Koenig’s movable tuning
forks -and resonators, and various kinds of metronomes.
Pot the study of physiological psychology, a complete
set of models of the nervous system is at hand, to-
gether with microscopic slides of the various parts
of the brain and spinal cord.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Bngeish. Part of the examination time is given
for answering questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in the preparatory courses in English;
the remainder, for writing an essay.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books
of the Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Catiline;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translations at sight of
passages from Cicero and Caesar; translations of
English into Latin based on the text of the authors.
Greek. {For students in the Department of Classics
only) Grammar, etymology and general rules of syntax;
Xenophon, Anabasis, four Books; Homer, at least
three books; prose composition based on text. ’
History. A general knowledge of the outlines
of Greek and Roman Plistory and of Medieval and
Modern History, as set out in the texts used in high
schools and other secondary schools.
Civil- Government. The Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chawvenet, New-
comb, or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
42
BULLETIN OB THE
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr's text-
book or an equivalent treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equi-
valent text.
Botany. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in which
at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation in this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book
similar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory
work is required. In both chemistry and physics the
laboratory note-books must be presented.
Trench and German. A three years’ study of
either German or French is required for entrance on
the Program in Letters and the Program in History
and Economics.
Subjects required for entrance to Dreshman year of the
Department of:
CLASSICS	LBTTURS	HISTORY & ECONOMICS
English.........4	English.........4	English.......4
Latin...........4	Latin...........4	Latin.........4
Greek...........3	Drench or	Drench or.
Mathematics....2	German..........3	German........3
History.........2	Mathematics.....2	History.......2
Science.........1	History.........2	Mathematics....2
Science.........1	Science........1
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	43
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Latin	5	158	I	Latin	5	158	I
Greek	4	154	I	Greek	4	154	I
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
History	4	156	I	History	4	156	I
Elocution	I	149	III	Elocution	1	149	IV
Elocution	i	150	VIII	Elocution.	1	150	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Latin	5	159	II	Latin	5	159	II
Greek	4	154	II	Greek	4	154	II
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	175	I
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Elocution	1	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
JUNIOR’ YEAR
Latin	5	159	III	Latin	5	159	III
Greek	4	154	III	Greek	4	154	III
Philosophy	4	176	II	Philosophy	4	176	II
English	3	150	III	English	3	150	III
Elocution	1	149	VI	Elocution	1	149	VI
SENIOR year
Latin	4	159	IV	Latin	4	159	IV
Greek	4	155	IV	Greek	4	155	IV
Philosophy	4	176	III	Philosophy	4	176	III
English	3	151	IV	English	3	151	IV
Elocution	1	149	VII	Elocution	3	149	VII
44
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF LETTERS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: ! First Term. |	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Latin or	5	158	I	Latin or	5	158	I
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	184	II	French or	5	184	II
German	5	154	II	German	5	154	II
History	4	156	I	History	4	156	I
Elocution	i	149	III	Elocution	1	149	IV
Elocution	i	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	175	I
Latin or	5	159	II	Latin or	5	i59	II
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	185	III	French or	5	185	III
German	5	154	III	German	5	i54	III
History	3	156	Ha	History	3	156	Ila
Elocution	1	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	150	III	English	3	150	III
Latin or	5	i59	III	Latin or	5	i59	III
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	176	II	Philosophy	4	176	II
History	4	156	III	History	4	156	III
Elocution	1	149	VI	Elocution	1	i49	VI
SENIOR YEAR
English	3	151	IV	English	3	151	IV
Latin or	4	i59	IV	Latin or	4	159	IV
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	176	III	Philosophy	4	176	III
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Elocution	1	149	VII	Elocution	1	149	VII
UN VARSITY OR NOTRE DAME	45
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY
BRBSHMAN YBAR
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
History	4	156	I	History	4.	156	I
English	»	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
French or	5	184	II	French ©r	5	184	II
German	5	■154	II	German	5	154	II
Polit. Science	4	181	I	Polit Science	4	181	I
Elocution	1	149	III	Elocution	1	149	IV
Elocution	1	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
SOPHOMORE YEAR
History	3	156	Ila	History	3	156	Ila
Polit. Science	4	181	II	Polit. Science	4	182	Illa
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	175	I
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
German or	4	154	III	German or	4	i54	III
French	4	185	III	French	4	185	III
Elocution	1	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
History	4	156	lib	History	4	157	IVa
Polit. Science	4	182	Illb	Polit. Science	4	182	IV
Philosophy	4	176	II	Philosophy	4	176	II
History	4	156	III	History	4	156	III
Elocution	1	149	VI	Elocution	1	149	VI
SBNIOR YBAR
History	3	157	IVb	History	3	157	IVb
Political	4	183	V, VI	Political	4	183	VIII
Science	2	183	VII	Science	2	183	VII
Philosophy	4	176	III	Philosophy	4	176	III
English	3	150	III	English	3	150	III
Elocution	1	149	VII	Elocution	1	149	VII
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
47
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The College of Science was established as a distinct
department of the University in 1865. The cur-
riculum of the student was largely elective for the:
three succeeding years, but in 1867 there was formed
the group of prescribed courses now known as the
Program of General Science. Six programs are now
offered to undergraduate students. The degrees under
charge of the Faculty in this college are the ordinary
degrees of Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science
in Biology, Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Bachelor
of Science in Pharmacy, Graduate in Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Chemist. The Master’s degree is con-,
ferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Biology occupies1 the second
floor of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture
rooms and laboratories well ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for graduate
students. The lecture rooms are furnished with charts
and models necessary in teaching the different .courses.
The arrangement of windows is such that the room
can be easily darkened so that stereopticon and lantern
slides on the subject of botany, zoology and physi-
ology may be used. The laboratories are equipped
with compound and dissecting microscopes. In each
room there is a library of works of reference pertain-
ing to biological subjects. The general laboratory
of microscopy, histology and embryology is supplied
with compound microscopes and the equipments in-
dispensable in these courses. The zoological collection
fills sixteen large cases and represents typical forms
48
BULLETIN OF THE
of all the orders and genera of vertebrate and inver-
tebrate animals.
For work in anatomy, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of
the human body, which can be taken apart for close
study. Besides there are several mounted and un-
mounted human skeletons. Students pursuing courses
in human anatomy at the University study under a
practicing surgeon and have the privilege of attend-
ing surgical clinics in the new St. Joseph Hospital
of South Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough
and careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the
others is a laboratory of photo-micography which
contains a perfect photo-micographic instrument for
experimentation, photographing microscopic objects,
making lantern slides, etc. A large and fully equipped
dark room adjoins this laboratory.
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORY
The^Botanical Laboratory occupies the northwest
end of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly
well adapted to microscopical and histological work.
The department is supplied with the usual requisites
of a working laboratory such as compound microscopes
and accompaniments for each student, the uten ns
and apparatus necessary for embedding by the paraffin,
celoiden, soap methods, and mounting of preparations
by the balsam, Venetian turpentine and glycerine
methods. There are besides, microtomes, camera
lucida, micrometers and aquaria for plant cultures so
that the typical algae and fungi may be had alive
for laboratory use in all stages of development through -
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
49
out the year. Special devices for the regulating and
modifying of artificial light are at hand enabling the
student to work on dark as well as clear days. Ad-
vanced students are supplied with Abbe condenser
and oil immersion lenses. The laboratory is well
stocked with histological material, and nearly all
the types of common plant families of the phanero-
gamia and cryptogamia are preserved after proper
fixing. The material for demonstration of the fresh
water algae is particularly good and abundant. The
supply of material in Venetian turpentine and glycerine
is valuable, as it supplies permanent mounts in a few
minutes work. There are also hundreds of specimens
of rare and common types in paraffin. A herbarium
containing over five thousand species of flowering
plants supplies the needs of the classes in systematic
botany. The collection includes plants from all parts
of the United States and Canada,—the Pacific coast
and the Southern States are especially well represented.
Besides there is a large collection of fungi, marine algae,
mosses, a large collection of several hundred species
of myxomycetes from the Bastern and Central States,
also nearly a thousand specimens of lichens from all
parts of the United States and Burope. The latter
herbarium is well stocked with the local flora, and
special facilities are on hand for the study of the com-
positae. In the museum are found specimens of Amer-
ican and tropical woods and fruits. The laboratory
for more advanced work accommodates about twenty-
five students. It is supplied with eight working tables
covered with plate glass or soapstone, and each place
is supplied with lock and key. The lecture room in
botany is on the second floor of the building and has
a seating capacity of seventy-five.
5°
BULLETIN OB THE
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated in
the southeastern part of the grounds and is a large
three story structure devoted entirely to chemistry.
On the third floor are a small stock room and the two
laboratories for general and industrial chemistry,
one capable of accommodating one hundred and fifty
students, the other seventy. The desks are all supplied
with gas, water, suction and the necessary reagents.
On the side tables are general stock and general ap-
paratus, and conveniently placed are small stands
for suction and blast lamps supplied with gas, air blast,,
acetylene. On the third floor also is the large fan
for drawing gases from the hoods, with which all the
laboratories are supplied. In the middle floor are
the main stock rooms where supplies can be obtained
by the students. Here also are the laboratories, lecture-
room, drug store, library and museum of the Depart-
ment of Pharmacy. On the first floor are the labora-
tories for qualitative and quantitative analysis with
desks to accommodate sixty-five students, and fitted,
with gas, suction, water and blast. Large hood accom-
modations are available and can be utilized to ad-
vantage because of the perfect ventilation produced
by the large fans on the top floor. Two small side-
tables are equipped with air blasts, ordinary gas and
acetylene. To the east of these laboratories are those
for physical and electro-chemistry and special work
such as food analysis, iron and steel analysis, gas an-
alysis, etc. The equipment in these laboratories is
quite complete. Adjoining these laboratories is a
small dark room for spectroscopic and polariscopic
analysis. A large lecture room to accommodate a.
hundred and ten students is in the south end of the
first floor. It is provided with apparatus for stereop-
•	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	51
ticon illustrations, storage batteries, cylinders of oxygen,
carbon dioxide and a complete set of charts illustrative
of the processes employed in modern chemical in-
dustries. Two laboratories adjoin, one for general
organic analysis, the other for special advanced work.
Two wings extend from the main building,—one con-
tains the vacuum and pressure tanks, the acetylene
and gasoline gas generators, the other the balance
rooms, in which are the analytical and assay balances
sensitive to the one ten-thousandth of a gramme,
' and the library of the Department. The library
contains besides the works of reference on chemistry,
the principal chemical journals on file—Berichte, Zen-
tralblatt, the Chemical News, the Journal of the Amer-
ican Chemical Society, the Journal of the British Chemical
Society, the Journal of Chemical Engineering, the
Journal of Chemical Industries, etc. In the large
hallway are cases containing a steadily increasing
collection of minerals, chemicals, designed as ilus-
trations of the substances and processes discussed
in the lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are
in a wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas
and fuel furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead
ores, and also tables for blow pipe analysis. A large
collection of minerals and ores serve to illustrate the
processes.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The Department of Physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science
Hall and three laboratories in the basement. The
lecture room will accommodate seventy-five students.
Dor the work in mechanics there is the force table,
inclined planes, Geneva cathetometer, capable of
52
BULLETIN OF THK
measuring to one twenty-five thousandth of an inch
a large physical balance, standard kilogram, a standard
metre, a dividing engine made by the Geneva society,
an Atwood’s machine, a compound pendulum, a break
circuit recording chronograph, a powerful hydraulic
press with attachments, rotary air pumps and re-
ceivers, a large clock with electrical contact pieces,
several self-winding clocks, mercury barometers and
two aneroid barometers.
hor the work in acoustics there are a Mercadier
radiophone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electric-
ally operated tuning forks by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig
phonautograph, an Edison phonograph of earliest tpye,
several sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a large
double siren, a set of very small tuning forks producing
the highest audible sounds, a set of resonators mounted
together with capsules for sensitive flames arranged
for the analysis of complex sounds, a set of Koenig’s
movable tuning forks to draw compound curves on
smoked glass, three sets of organ pipes, four sets of
4 %
fine tuning forks, a set of apparatus for manometric
observation of sound phenomena, a large tuning fork
producing the lowest audible sound, an electric metro-
nome, a set of mounted tuning forks carrying small
mirrors arranged to perform Lissaj on’s experiment,
producing complex curves,
Lor the work in light there are a complete set of appa-
ratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the wave
lengths of light by various interference methods,' a set
of polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a polariza-
tion saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for gas
or electric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large Nicol’s
prisms mounted, a large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum, two Rowland gratings
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	53
14,000 lines to the inch, a set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland, several cameras with lenses and
*
attachments, a well-equipped dark-room for photo-
graphic work, and a photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
thermometers, air thermometers, a steam engine indica-
tor, several calorimeters, apparatus for determining the
coefficient of linear expansion using the optical lever
method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
absolute electrometer, a Holz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,
six bridges of different types, several ammeters and
volt-meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard
resistance coils, a historical set of. motors showing
evolution of the modern machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type, ten galvanometers of various
types, a complete X-ray outfit, sets of apparatus for
wireless telegraphy.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Physiology. Martin’s Humana Body, or an equiv-
alent treatise.
Zoology. Elementary.
Botany. Elementary.
Civil Government. The T American Constitution;
Federal and State Governments.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
?54	BULLETIN OF THE
-;as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples,
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chawvenet, New-
comb, or equivalent treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations. A course of at least fifty
'experiments in elementary chemistry actually performed
by the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
•subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book simi-
lar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. In both chemistry
and physics the laboratory note-book must be presented.
English. Part of the examination is given for answer-
ing questions upon the text-books and readings required
in the regular preparatory courses in English; the re-
mainder for writing an essay.
German. A two-year course in German is required.
.Ability to translate at sight easy German into English
-and easy English into German, or
French. A two-year course in Trench may be pre-
sented instead of German under the same conditions.
Ability to translate readily, rather than an accurate
grammatical knowledge, is expected.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on the text of Caesar.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English, 4; Science, 2, (Chemistry and Physics);
Mathematics, 3^; Latin, 2; French or German, 2;
History, 2; Drawing, X-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	55;
PROGRAM IN GENERAL ’SCIENCE
The Program in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of'
modern science as will best enable the student to fit.
himself, either for further study of a technical or pro-
fessional kind, or for the activities of business life.
The natural and physical sciences constitute the primary ■
studies of this program. Grouped about these are
such studies in English, mathematics, and modern
languages, as experience has shown to be necessary for
the intelligent pursuit of science and the attainment
of the object of the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior year..
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in physics, chemistry,
biology and mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of
General Science is required to submit, before the final
examination, a written thesis upon some subject con-
nected with the elective work of the Senior year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the professor
• in the course selected. The thesis shall contain no less,
than five thousand words, and must be satisfactory in.
matter and treatment.	.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the'
final examination and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES
- Chemistry I, VII, each..........................$ 5.00
Chemistry II, III, IV, VI, VIII, IX, XI, XIII, each.. .. 10.00
Chemistry V.................................. 20.00-
Physics III, Zoology I, Botany II, Mineralogy III, each. .. 5.00)
BUEEETIN of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION^ Page I Course	
		Page|	Course				
Zoology	6	187	I	Zoology	6	187	I
Chemistry	4	125	II ■	Chemistry	4	125	II
Algebra	5	l6O	I	Anal. Geom.	5	160	II
Drawing	i	142	I	Drawing	2	142	11
Physiology	4	I8O	I	Physiology	4	180	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Botany	5	123	I, II	Botany	5	123	I, II
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Calculus	5	160	III	Calculus	5	161	IV, V
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	126	V
JUNIOR YEAR
Geology	2	151	III	Geology	4	151	I
Elective	5			Astronomy	3	121	1
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
French or	5	184	I	French or	5	184	1
German	5	153	I	German	5	153	I
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	175	I
SENIOR year
Philosophy	4	176	II	Philosophy	4	176	II
Three Electives in Science French or	9 11 5	184	II	Three Electives in Science French or	9 11 5	184	II
German	5	i54	II	German	5	154	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
57
PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them
for professional work either in the laborator}z or the
class-room. Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule
of work admits in the Junior and Senior year of some
elective study.
Bvery candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject»
connected with Chemistry and must submit, at least
four weeks before the final examination, a written thesis
on work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must
contain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry I, VII, each..............................$	5-°°
Chemistry II, III, IV, VI, VIII, IX, XI, XIII, each. . . . 10.00
Chemistry V........................................ 20.00
Physics III......................................... 5-00
Mineralogy III...................................... 5-00
58
BUEEETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
v BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
CHEMISTRY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	| Course
Chemistry	4	125	II	Chemistry	4	125	II
Algebra	5	160	I	Anal. Geom.	5	160	II
French	5	184	I	French	5	I84	I
English	3	150	I	Bnglish	3	150	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Chemistry	4	126	V
Calculus .	5	160	III
Physics	5	178	II, III
Chemistry	5	126	VI
Gas Analysis	4	127	VIII
Chemistry	4	126	V
Calculus	5	161	IV, V
Physics	5	178	II, III
Chemistry	6	127	IX
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	7	127	IX	Chemistry	4	128	XI
Chemistry				Chemistry	• 3	129	XIII
Elective	5			Chemistry			
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Geology	2	152	III	Assaying	4	152	III
				Geology	4	151	I
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy History of Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French	4 3 5 2 2	176 129	II XII	Philosophy Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French Thesis	4 5 2 2	176	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
59
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY
The Program in Biology has been designed for students
who wish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required to prepare an
essay during the first term of the Junior Year on some
subject pertaining to biology. Every candidate for a
degree must submit before the final examinations a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings.
Students not preparing themselves for the medical
profession may substitute for the advance courses in
anatomy and physiology equivalents from either math-
ematics, physics, or English literature.
LABORATORY FEES
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I, II, each..........$	5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany II,	IV,	each......... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I, II...................... 1.00
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology.......... 10.00
Physics III....................................... 5-00
Chemistry II, VI, each........................... 10.00
Chemistry V...................................... 20.00
6o
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
BIOLOGY
PRESHMAH YEAR
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	| Course			P’ge	Course
Zoology	5	187	I	Zoology	6	187	I
Chemistry	4	125	II	Chemistry	4	125	II
Microscopy	2	I69	I	English	3	150	I
English	3	150	I	French	5	I84	I
French	5	I84	I	Drawing	1	144	IX
Drawing	i	144	IX				
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Bacteriology	5	122	I	Physiology	5	180	I
Botany	5	123	I, II	Botany	5	123	I, II
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	126	V
Physics	5	177	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Drawing	1	144	X	Drawing	1	144 2 [	
JUNIOR YBAR
Botany	6	124	III, IV			 —y , Botany	4	124	III, IV
Geology	2	152	III	Geology	4	151	I
Philosophy	4	177	I	Philosophy	4	175	I
Chemistry	5	126	VI	Elective	5		
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
SENIOR YEAR
Anatomy	2	114	■ I, II	Anatomy	2	114	I, II
Anatomy	4	114	III	Anatomy	4	114	III
Physiology	6	180	II	Physiology	6	180	II ■
Zoology Thesis	6	188	II	Zoology Thesis	6	188	II

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
6l
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are three programs in Parmacy;' one of two
years, leading to the degree, Graduate in Pharmacy,
(Ph. G.); and another of three years leading to the
degree, Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.); and one of
four years leading to the degree, Bachelor of Science in
Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.)
'	ADMISSION
Applicants for admission to the short program must
be 18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
subjects required for the first year of high school work.
A certificate of work done equivalent to one year of
high school will be accepted instead of an examination.
For admission to the three year program, in addition
to the age limit, the completion of two years preparatory
work is required. Evidence of this work may be shown
by certificate or examination.
For admission to the four year program the same
conditions apply as for entrance to the Freshman year
of a regular College program in Science.
METHODS
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated process.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success, in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
62
BULLETIN OF THF
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of
preparations are required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal
Medication.
Tor admission to the four year program the same
-conditions apply as for entrance to the Freshman
year of a regular College program in Science.
EQUIPMENT
Bach desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same ex-
perience that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full charge. He is required to
furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physi-
■cians, and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute
a very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to
read them and to compound those requiring special
manipulation. The reading room is supplied with all
the leading pharmaceutical journals and books of
reference. The Pharmacognosy room contains specimens
•of all the official and a great many unofficial drugs for
••study and identification.
THESIS
During the third year the student is required to spend
'at least two hours a week in original research on a
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
subject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results
of this work are carefully recorded and must be type-
written and presented to the Faculty as a requirement
for graduation.
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II, and IV, each.........$20.00
Pharmaceutical	Labortaroy VI, and VII, each......... 20,00
Chemistry I, and	VII,	each........................... 5.00
Chemistry III, IV, and VI, each....................T	10.00
Geology III.......................................... 5.00
Physics I...........................................   5.00
*64
bulletin of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
GRADUATE IN PHARMACY
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Pharmacy	8	173	I, II	Pharmacy	8	173	I, II
Chemistry	5	125	I	Chemistry	5	125	I
Microscopy	2	169	I	Chemistry	2	128	-X.
Bacteriology	5	122	I	Physiology	5	l8O	I
Arithmetic	3	177	IX	Chemistry	5	126	III
Physics	5	177	I	Physics	5	177	I
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	i73	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	i74	IV, V, Via XI
Chemistry	4	126	IV	Pharmacy	2	175	
Chemistry	7	126	VI	Mat’ra Medica	3	i74	VIII
Mat’ra Medica	3	174	VIII	Botany	5	123	I, II
Botany	5	123	I, II	Pharmacog’y	1	175	-X
Pharmacog’y	1	i75	XL				
DEGREE: PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
first year
Pharmacy	8	173	I, II	Pharmacy	8	173	I, II
Chemistry	5	125	I	Chemistry	5	125	I
Microscopy	2	169	I	Chemistry	2	128	X
Bacteriology	5	122	I	Physiology	5	810	I
Arithmetic	3	175	IX	Chemistry	4	126	III
Physics	5	177	I	Physics	0	177	I
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	173	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	174	IV, V, Via
Chemistry	4	126	IV	Pharmacy Mat’ra Medica	2	175	XI
-Chemistry	7	126	VI		3	174	VIII
Mat’ra Medica	3	174	VIII	Botany	5	123	I, II
Botany	5	123	I, II	Pharmacog’ y		i75	X
Pharmacog’y	1	175	-X				
THIRD YEAR
Pharmacy	6	174	VIb	Pharmacy	6	174	VII
Chemistry	5	128	XIc t	Chemistry	5	129	XIV
Geology Elective Thesis	2 5 2	152	III 1	Urine Anal. Toxicology Elective Thesis	3 3 5 2	127 127	Vila VHb
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
PHARMACY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SED FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Chemistry	4	125	II	Chemistry	4	125	II
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Botany	5	123	I, II	Botany	5	123	1/ II
German	5	153	I	German	5	153	I
Microscopy	2	169	I	Physiology	5	ISO	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Pharmacy	8	173	I, II	Pharmacy	8	173	I, II
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	126	V
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
JUNIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8 '	1 173	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	i73	IV, V, Via
Chemistry	5	126	VI	Chemistry	2	126	: Vic
Bacteriology	5	122	I	Geology	5	15i	I
Zoology	5	187	I	Zoology	5	187	I
				Pharmacy	2	175	XI
SENIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8	174	VIb	Pharmacy	5	174	VII
Pharmacog’y	2	175	X	Pharmacog’y	2	175	X
Geology	2	152	III	Urine Anal.	2	127	Vila
Elective Mat’ra Medica Thesis	5 3	174	VIII	Toxicology Elective Mat’raMedica r xxOsis	3 5 3	127 i74	VHb VIII
9
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENG1NEEING
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING-
DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	67
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In tlie industrial development of a country the
-engineer takes an important part. Many new industries
-are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
■the services of trained engineers.
The program,s of studies in the five departments of
•engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that
are applied in engineering work. Mathematics is fore-
most among these requirements. The natural sciences
receive their share of attention and due importance
is given to language in arranging the programs of studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to
correspond as closely as possible to the real work of
the engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are
acquired by applying the results of mathematical
calculations to particular practical cases in laboratory
work.
Five regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, one to the degree of
Electrical Engineer, one to the degree of Engineer of
Mines, and one to the degree of Chemical Engineer.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accomodate those who wish
68
BULLETIN OB THE
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest
possible time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department w’ill be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
EXPENSES
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works
in the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufactur-
ing plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour of credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one
to two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in
laboratory work, shopwork or drawing are required
for each hour on the schedule.
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 35, the regular
students in the five Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appara-
tus used, as follows:
LABORATORY FEES
Assaying II.........................................$15.00
Chemistry 1.......................................... 5.00
Chemistry II, VI, VIII, XI, XIII,	XIV,	XV........... 10.00
Chemistry V......................................... 20.00
Crystallography IV................................... 2.00
Electrical Laboratory I, II and	IV,	each........... 15.00
Metallurgy 1......................................... 5.00
Mineralogy II, Sophomore year....................... 10.00
Mineralogy II, Junior year........................... 5.00
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
Mineralogy III.................................... 5.00-
Petrography V...................................... 5.00
Physical Laboratory I and III, each................ 5.00
Physical Laboratory IV............................ 15.00
Shopwork, all four-year programs,	per term.......... 15.00
Surveying III, V, VII, each......................... 10.00
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chawvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States;.
Federal Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr’s text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics. Blementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments and rectiations from a text-book like
Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work is also
required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry. Laboratory
work required.
Botany, Physiology and Zoology. Blementary.
Modern Language. Bngineering students must
present a three years’ course in German, French or
Spanish.	,
Fnglish. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon text-books and required
70
bufbftin of thb
readings to be read in the preparatory courses in English;
the remainder for writing an essay.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English, 4; Mathematics, 3X; Science, 2, (Chemistry
.and Physics); History, 2; French or German, 3; Draw-
ing, Xi elective, 1.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession,
either in the office or in some of the responsible positions
superintending the construction and operation of public
works. To secure these results the student is given,
not only a sound theoretical training in the courses of
study, but he is also required to study the practical
applications of the principles upon which the theory
is based. The first two years are devoted to the study
of mathematics and the theoretical branches. The last
two years are given to the study of applied courses—
practical work in the laboratory and field, as much as
possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects.
Instruction based upon standard text-books on engineer-
ing is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
.field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
-directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	7E
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening
his interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments-
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists off
surveyors’ transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with all-
the attachments, clinometers, chains,* tapes, leveling
rods, etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine..
After the student is taught the use and adjustment of
the instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are
commenced and continued progressively until the more-
difficult principles and methods are understood. In a
similar manner is instruction given in the courses of’
sanitary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of'
materials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the
student with practical engineering subjects, and the
most improved method of execution and designing. A
large draughting room offers facilities for the proper
study of all the courses in mechanical drawing and
design. The room is splendidly lighted from above, well
ventilated and contains the latest form of drawing"
tables. There are suitable arrangements for blue-
printing, both by natural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a.
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most,
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West..
Some of the largest plants in the world are situated here..
One' of the greatest water power developments in the-
United States is located a few miles from the University.
Special advantages are thus afforded to students for the
inspection of the most modern engineering works now
72
BUTLBTIN OB TUB
completed or in process of construction. The City
Engineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of the
Department connected with the course of study, is
required of each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original research.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
73
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER
ERESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	160	I	Anal. Geom.	5	l6O	II
English	3	150	I	French	5	184	I
French	5	184	I	Chemistry	4	125	II
Chemistry	4	125	II	Drawing	3	140	II
Drawing	3	I4O	I	Surveying	3	131	II,III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	160	III	Calculus	5	161	IV, V
Des. Geometry'	3	131	I	Des. Geometry	3	131	I
R. R. Survey’g	5	133	VI VII	Adv. Survey’g	5	132	IV, V
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Drawing	1	i43	V	Drawing	1	i43	V
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	133	VIII	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	i33	VIII
Geodesy	4	134	IX	Materials	3	134	X
English	3	159	II	Astronomy	3	121	I
Geology	2	152	III	English	3	150	II
Stereo to my	3	133	VI	Geology Drawing	4 3	143 143	I VII
senior year
Engineering
Hydromechan.
Bridges, Roofs
Sanitary Eng.
Drawing
5	136	XII	Engineering	5	136	XII
3	138	XVI	Hydromechan.	3	138	XVI
5	137	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	137	XV
2	136	XIII	Sanitary Eng.	2	136	XIII
3	143	VII	Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	4	135	XI
74
. BUI/L^TIN OT this
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The'-'program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and
for the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only those
capable of adapting themselves to these requirements
should take it up. The program of the department is
modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials
used in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the
science of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces
the motions of connected parts without reference to the
cause of such motions, to the work done or energy
transmitted. This is succeeded by machine design, which
is a direct development of kinematics, and the course
continues throughout the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the wood-
shop, in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and
pattern-making are taught. When the students have
become sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the
work of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine
shop. A systematic course of training is provided, which
advances the student by easy steps until he has mastered
all the details of the work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
75
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of the program,
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show
considerable originality.
Bvery possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the
particular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas
engine design and operation. A systematic curriculum
of study will be outlined in each individual case leading
to a complete and proficient knowledge of the work
undertaken.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus
• of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort
is made by the authorities to make the work as com-
prehensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood’ shop is
supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped with
the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for
turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner, an
edge moulder and sharper, a universal trimmer, circular
saw with dado and drilling attachments and band saw,
the whole forming an adequate equipment for a thor-
ough mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
BULLETIN Oli1 THB
76
shafting running the entire length of the building. The
latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five-inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed, having a
capacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two
drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a
Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit,
thus making the machine shop a model of its kind. There
have been completed lately in the machine shop seven
new screw cutting lathes of fourteen-inch swing, a high
speed bench hand lathe, one twenty-eight inch Sibley
and Ware drill press, one horizontal 8x12 slide valve
steam engine and a wood milling machine. The equip-
ment is added to regularly,- and recently a Seneca Tails
lathe of fourteen inch swing and eight foot bed, a Crown
high speed lathe, a Toledo punch press and a complete
new set of chucks, drills, taps, mandrels and lathe dogs
have been installed to meet the additional requirements
of the courses. It is the policy of this department to
refrain as much as possible from exercise work, and
each student is usually taking part in the construction
of some new machine or engaged on general repair work
for the University, a plan which is regarded superior
to a fixed routine of exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool-making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops,
the engineering students have access to the steam and
power plants of the University which have been recently
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
77
remodelled and made to compare favorably with, the
best contemporary practice. The main steam plant
contains two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers,
aggregating 1200 horse power. In connection with the
boilers is installed the necessary testing apparatus as
follows: a Worthington hot water meter for measuring
the amount of feed water, a feed water thermometer
for getting temperature of same, a high range ther-
mometer for temperature of generated steam, a throttling
calorimeter for ascertaining the quality of steam and
an automatic recording pressure guage giving a con-
tinuous record of the boiler pressure. Provision is made
for finding the temperature and pressure of the flue
gases by means of a pyrometer and draught guage and
for obtaining samples of flue gas for analysis with
Fisher’s analysis apparatus. These, with a Carpenter
coal calorimeter for determining the heating value of
fuel, comprise a full and complete equipment for giving
the student an intimate knowledge of the practical part
of boiler management and testing. A Webster feed
water and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two
large Worthington fire pumps 16x9 by 12 with a capacity
of 1500 gallons per minute, with numerous separators,
steam traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete
the apparatus in the main steam plant. A McBwen
high speed automatic engine, an Armington and Sims
engine of similar type and several low speed horizontal
engines with polar and roller planimeters, indicators,
reducing wheels, slide rules and other necessary instru-
ments, are used in studying the operation of the steam-
engine, distribution and economy of steam, regulation,
valve setting and heat wastes.
There have been recently donated to the mechancial
laboratory about four hundred brass and iron fittings,
78
BULLET N OB THE
used in steam and gas engineering, including feed water
injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups, safety valves,
relief valves, different varieties of globe valves, gate
valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bushings and
reducers. Many of these have heen sectioned to show
the dimensions, and facilitate a study of the internal
structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four cycle engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse power two-cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse porver horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with- circulating pump and cooling
former, one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil,
one Apple ignition, dynamo with storage battery, two
Hendricks automatic igniters together with carburettors,
spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary
equipment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston
-carburettor and muffler, a National storage battery,
Pittsfield induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard
magnetos with brass armored spark coils, one four
•engine cylinder distributor and a number of improved
standard and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be-operated by alcohol .has been placed in the machine
shop, and the work • of designing and building the
engine, will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering
topics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete
line of trade catalogues.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
79
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE for description	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	| Course
Algebra	5	160	I	Anal. Geom.	5	160	II
French	5	I84	I	French	5“	184	I
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
Chemistry	4	125	II	Chemistry	4	125	II
Shop work	3	I67	XlVa	Shopwork	3	167	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	160	III	’ Calculus	5	161	IV, V
Drawing	3	144	VIII	1 Drawing	3	144	VIII
Chemistry	4	126	V	I Chemistry	4	126	V
Physics	5	178	II, III	* Physics	5	178	II, III
Shopwork	3	167	XIVc	Shop work	3	167	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
An. Mechanics	5	165	VIII	Hydraulics	2	165	VIII
Kinematics	5	164	V	Meeh’s of Mat.	3	165	X
English	3	150	I	Mach’n Design	3	164	VI
Physics	3	179	IV	Physics	3	179	IV
Shop work	3	167	XlVe	Valve Gears	2	164	VII
				English	3	150	I
				Shopwork	3	167	XlVf
SENIOR year
Materials of Engineering	2	162	II	Steam Engine Design	5	163	HI
Thermodynam.	5	162	I	Steam Boilers	3	163	IV
Steam Engine				Thermodynam.	5	162	I
Design	5	163	III	Thesis			
Mechan’l Lab.	3	165	VIII				
Shop work	3	167	XlVf				
8o
BUIJJSTIN of thb
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, and embraces it in theory, design,
construction and operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a
general descriptive study of the different types of
engines with discussions on the general management,
operations, care and special uses to which this type
of motor may be applied. During the second year the
general theory of the gas engine is studied and the
design of an engine for specific purposes is undertaken
by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodyna-
mic efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Experi-
ments in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation
of vaporizers and carburettors, construction of spark
coils and care of motors will complete the work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room
by the complete building and testing of a gas engine of
a design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each
student is required to prepare the patterns and core-
boxes, machine the castings and forgings, assemble the
complete engine and submit a comprehensive report of
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	81
a test on the machine constructed. If the report proves
;satisfactory a certificate of proficiency is given to the
student and the gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student must have
completed courses XIVa and XlVb in shopwork and
must certify by examination or certificate evidence of
-a knowledge of algebra as far as logarithms, plane
.geometry, and his further ability to pursue the studies
of the first year. Candidates shall also write a short
essay, which must be satisfactory in spelling, sentence
and paragraph construction.
The equipment and facilities for the courses will be
.found described on pages 74-78.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED EOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FIRS? YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	| Course
‘Geometry	5	206	E	Trignometry	5	207	E
Drawing	2	140	I	Drawing	3	139	II
‘Shopwork	3	T67	XlVa	Shop work	3	167	XlVd
'Chemistry	5	125	I	Chemistry	5	125	I
Physics	5	177	I	Physics	5	177	I
‘Gas Engines	5	165	X	Vapor Engines	5	165	X
SECOND YEAR
Motor Design Laboratory	15 3	166 166	XI XIII	Motor Design Laboratory	TO 3	1 166 166	XI XIII
<Gas Engine .	3	166	XII	Gas Engine Engines and Boilers	3 3	166 165	XII IX
82
BUIylyBTlN OF THB
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
in the program of Electrical Engineering is intended
to give a general education as well as a special training
in the technical branches involved in the various prac-
tical applications of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class-room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires skill in hand-
ling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records
of the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
centre in the growth of which electricity is taking a
very prominent part. Electric power generated by steam
is now being distributed and utilized in several large
plants, some using the three phase alternating system,
while others are using the direct current. One of the
largest water power developments in the Middle West
is situated within a few miles of the Universtiy. From
this establishment we receive three phase alternating
currents which furnish light for our buildings and
grounds, and power for driving motors in our shops and
printing offices, etc., all of which are operated by
electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power within
UNIVRRSTIY OR NOTRE DAME
83
a short distance. Our students visit all of these plants
accompanied by an instructor who points out the
applications of the text-book theory in the design of
electrical apparatus and its operation under actual
working conditions.
Bach candidate for graduation must present at the
end of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying
the results of an extended original research on an
engineering subject, chosen at the beginning of the
year, with the approval of the head of the department.
The descriptive part must be typewritten on legal cap
paper, and bound in book form together with the
drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows: A three phase A. C. induction motor arranged
to operate on single phase circuits with a condenser
compensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K. W. com-
posite wound Wood alternator of the latest type with
exicatter and a full set of switchboard instruments,
several transformers of different capacity, a high tension
transformer for testing insulation, an Bdison bipolar
15 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-Houston arc
light machine with regulator and fifteen lamps, a Wood
arc transformer for testing insulation, an Bdison bipolar
15 machine capacity 25 lights, an Bdison bipolar 3
K. W. 125 V. dynamo with special winding, a Van
Depoele compound wound dynamo, a special A. C.
5 H. P. dynamo or rotary converter, a series wound
dynamo with wrought iron field, number of small motors,
a forty horse power high speed automatic engine, a
set of inclined coil alternating current portable instru-
ments voltmeter, ammeter and wattmeter, telegraphing
relays, sounders, switchboard, etc., telephone apparatus
84
bulletin of thb
including subscribers sets of various modern types, a *
fifty drop manual switchboard complete and a lot of
separate drops, jacks, switches, lightning arresters, etc.,
automatic telephone switchboard containing first and
second selector and connector switches, interrupter
heat coils, etc., and three subscribers sets—with this
apparatus all the operations involved in the operation
of a 10,000 system may be performed, a complete central
energy switchboard, several lines and subscribers sets
and a selective signaling four party line outfit, a collec-
tion of historical sets including Reis’ transmitter and
receiver, a standard portable bridge, a common portable
bridge, a testing battery, a power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and hand tools for metals, a
set of tools for metal working, a calibrating lamp rack,
a D’Arsonval and common galvanometers, Ballistic
galvanometer, standard condenser, etc., for capacity
work, resistance boxes, standard megohms, etc., high
resistance Thompson galvanometer, standard cells,
voltmeter arranged for the comparison on incandescent
lamps, a plug switchboard controlling all circuits, a
small engine belted to shafting to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and polishing work to be
plated, solution tank, etc.,—in all, a complete outfit
for electrotype work, a hot wire ammeter, twelve am-
meters and voltmeters mostly of the Western type for
direct current measurements, a set of wood working
tools, a Kohlrausch bridge for measuring battery
resistance, etc., a lot of arc lamps series and constant
potential open and enclosed arcs of various wattmeters
of various types, a collection of motor starting rheostats,
several sets of parts of incandescent lamps showing the
various stages in their manufacture, a large collection
of porcelain insulators used in electrical work including a
lot of insulators for high tension transmission lines, a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
8$
lot of armature core disks, transformer core stampings,,
formed coils, brush holders, pole pieces, samples of in-
sulation, commutator segments, etc., used in dynamos
of good design, donated by leading manufacturers of
electrical machinery, a case of marked samples of wire
insulators, lamps and other construction materials, a
library of practical technical books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and trade publications, a Cooper
Hewitt mercury vapor lamp, a high frequency Tesla
coil and condenser, a working model of the induction
motor showing the action of the rotating field, a trans-
mission dynamometer capacity % to 10 horse power for
determining the efficiency of small dynamos, a full size
armature winding model mounted to rotate in bipolar’
and multipolar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with
universal switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the*
'courses in physics there are the following: An absolute
electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for illus-
trating static phenomena, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance*
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of
the modern machine from the early form of the recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types, a.
complete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy. For further apparatus consult pages 51^
52 and 53 of this catalogue.
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shopwork,,
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages 50, 71 and 74.
86
bulletin or THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER IN ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
ASHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		.SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		E’ge	| Course			P’ge	| Course
Algebra	5	160	I	Anal. Geom.	5	l6O	II
French	5	184	I	French	5	184	I
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
■Chemistry	4	125	II	^Chemistry	4	125	II
Shopwork	3	167	XlVa	Shopwork	3	I67	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	160	III	Calculus	5	161	IV, V
Des. Geometry	4	142	III	Des. Geometry	4	142	III
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
.Shopwork	3	167	XIVc	Shop work	3	167	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	133	VIII	Hydraulics Meeh’s of Mat. Mach’n Design	2 2 5	165 i33 164	VIII VIII VI
Kinematics	5	id 4	V	English	5	150	I
English	3	150'	I	Electrical			
Physics	3	150	IV	Measurement	3	179	V
Shop work	3	167,	XlVe	Shopwork	3	179	VI
				Calorimetry	3	179	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Dynamo Machinery	5	146'	III	Dynamo Machi 5		146 146	III IV
				Electrical Eab.	5		
Thermodynam.	5	162	I	Designing	3	146	V
Electrical Eab.	5	146	IV	Thermodynam.	5	162	I
Designing Dynamo Mach.	3 3	146 147	V VI	Telephony Wireless	1	147	22
Power Transmission	1	147	VIII	Telegraphy Illuminating	2	148	XI
Electric Ry. Thesis	1	147	IX	Engineering Thesis	2	148	XII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	87
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short program, which
may be completed in two years. The studies are arranged
to give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental
theories of electricity and magnetism, as well as a
certain amount of skill in handling electrical machinery
and appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and
elementary physics are included, for they are necessary
in order to carry on successfully the practical work
of designing, manufacturing and testing or operating
electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work is
given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and in
the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power
are learned by testing, repairing and making additions
to the University plant, and by visiting the numerous
electric establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by
an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as logarithms.
They shall also write a short essay which must be
satisfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and
paragraph construction.
>88
bulletin of the
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
•completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, according to the follow-
ing schedule, after they have finished all the work
required for entrance, shall be as given on page 68.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	| Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	206	c	Geometry	5	206	D
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
;Shopwork	3	167	XlVa	Shopwork	3	167	XlVb
Physics	5	177	I	Physics	5	177	I
Applied Electricity	5	'145	I	Applied Electricity	5	145	I
SECOND YEAR
"Trigonometry Designing	5 3	207 146	F V	Engines and Boilers	3	165	IX
.Shopwork	3	167	XIVc	Designing	3	146	V
Dynamo				Shop work	3	167	XlVd
Machinery	5	146	III	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	146	III
Electricity	5	145	II	Applied			
				Electricity	5	145	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
89
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING5
The wonderful growth and expansion of the mining
industry, not only in this country but in Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America, has created a constant demand
for trained men who have a thoroughly practical as
well as theoretical knowledge of mining operations.
The aim of this department is to give the student
sufficient training, in the various technical branches of
mining to enable him to project and successfully carry
through a mining enterprise.
The course of studies leading to the degree of Mining
Engineer includes the essential subjects of Mechanical
Bngineering, particularly those which have special
prominence in mining work; for the economical oper-
ation of any mine depends to a great extent upon the
judicious selection and proper operation of the machinery
in the power plant, mill and smelter. Likewise the
subjects of Civil Bngineering with but few excep-
tions, are embraced in the mining course, for the reason
that many of the problems of Civil Bngineering must
be solved in the laying out and directing of mining
work. Plans and surveys of the surface improvements
and underground workings of a mine are made by the
Mining Bngineer.
In addition to these subjects the course includes the
following special branches: Crystallography, Mineral-
ogy, Petrography, Physical and Chemical Geology,
Bconomic Mining Geology, Metallurgy, Ore dressing,
Assaying and a thorough study of Inorganic Chemistry
in its application to mining and metallurgy.
Throughout the course the object is not only to
present clearly the theory underlying each subject,
but to fix it in the mind of the student by practical
work in the laboratory, shop, drafting room and in
90
bulletin of thf
trips to mining districts where the student becomes
familiar with the practical application of the principles
laid down in the text-book and lectures.
The subject of the thesis required in this course
must be along the line of mining and consist of original
research work in one of its special branches, to be
approved by the head of the department.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING
Chemical manufacture has developed so rapidly and
grown so exacting that there has arisen a demand for
men who not only can create and improve chemical
processes strictly so-called, but who can deal with the
problems of construction and maintenance as far as
they are related to chemical industries. To prepare
young men for such work the course in Chemical Engi-
neering has been designed. The student taking up this
course is given a thorough training in chemical principles
similar to that outlined in the Course in Chemistry
except that the laboratory period is somewhat shortened.
To this training is added a certain amount of the theory
and laboratory practice in Mechanical Engineering
sufficient for the needs of chemical industries, together
with a consideration of electrical currents as used in
chemical manufacture.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
91
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P'ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	160	I	Anal. Geom.	5	l6O	II
Chemistry	4	125	II	Chemistry	4	125	II
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
Shopwork	3	167	XlVa	Shop work	3	167	XlVb
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
				Surveying	5	131	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	160	III	Calculus	5	161	IV, V
R. R. Survey’g	5	133	VI VII	Adv.Survey’g	5	132	IV, V
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	A	178	II, III
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	126	V
Drawing	1	143	V	Drawing	1	143	V
Mining Eng.	5	169	I	Geology	5	151	I
				Mining Eng.	5	169	I
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh.	5	i33	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	2	165	X
Geodesy	4	134	IX	Hydromechan.	3	138	XVI
Mineralogy	3	152	II	Mineralogy	5	152	II
Drawing	3	i43	VIII	Drawing	3	143	VIII
Shop work	3	167	XlVe	Shopwork	3	167	XlVf
Crystal! phy	5	152	IV	Chemistry	5	130	XV
SENIOR YEAR
Ore Dressing Metallurgy	3 3	168 160	I	Assaying Economic	8	160	II
Physical and				Mining Geol.	Q.	151	VII
Chern. Geol.	3	153	VI	Graphic Statics	5	137	XV
Petrography	2	152	V	Petrography	2	152	V
Thermodynam. Materials of	5	162	I	Thesis			
Engineering	2	162	II				
ShopwTork	3	167	XlVf				
SUMMER WORK.
(To be done during the summer preceding the Senior Year.)
This course consists of actual Mining Engineering practice in the mines
of the lake Superior district, under the direction of the head of the department.
Each student is required to make a complete, accurate underground survey
with a mining transit, connecting the mine traverse with one on surface, through
vertical and inclined shafts, A study of the different methods of mining in
several mines are made with special attention given to Geology in its relation
to economic mining; ore dressing mills and metallurgical plants are carefully
inspected to familiarize the student with the best concentrating and smelting
methods. Sixty hours a week for four weeks.
bulletin ob the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	160	I	Anal. Geom.	5	160	II
Chemistry	4	125	II	Chemistry	4	125	II
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	14O	II
French	5	184	I	French	5	184	I
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Shop work	3	167	XlVa	Shop work	3	167	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	160	III	Calculus	5	161	IV, V
Physics	5	179	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Drawing	2	141	III	Drawing	2	141	III
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	126	V
Shopwork	3	167	XIVc	Shopwork	3	167	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	126	VI	Chemistry	5	130	XV
Physics	3	179	IV	Physics	3	179	IV
Anal. Meeh.	5	133	VTII	Meeh, of Mats	2	165	X
Kinematics	3	164	V	Hydromechan	3	138	XVI
Drawing	2	143	V	Mach. Design	3	164	VI
Drawing	3	144	VIII	Valve Gears	2	164	VII
				Chemistry	2	127	VIII
				Steam Boilers	3	163	. IV
SENIOR YEAR
Chemistry	6	127	IX	Chemistry	7	127	IX
Chemistry	3	129	XIII	Chemistry	4	128	XI
Chemistry	5	129	XIV	Chemistry	5	129	XIV
Thermodynam.	3	162	I	Thermodynam.	3	162	I
MechT. Lab.	3	165	VIII	Thesis			
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
93,
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fudamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that
a deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Artist is the heaven-gifted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of
form, color, texture, and ornament, can build them
structurally and economically perfect. It is seldom that
any mind combines all of these attributes. It is more
seldom that to-day’s practice requires them in any one
man. To-day, one man “ designs”; another “frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture from •
the College of Engineering and to create the new College'
of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offers three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The pro-
gram in design requires four years for completion and
is offered to students wishing to specialize in design;
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is '
the same length and is offered to men wishing to special-
ize in construction; the degree is Bachelor of Science
in Architectural Engineering. Graduate years are
offered in both programs, and upon completion, Masters'
degrees are conferred. A Short Program covering two
years is offered to students finding it impossible or
inexpedient to devote to school work the time required
for completing the programs leading to degrees. Upon
completion of the Short Program a Certificate of Pro-
ficiency is given.
94
BULLETIN OB THE
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the drafting-room continuously for four or five hours.
In the Senior Year and in the Short Program the
class-room requirements are less and the time to be
spent in the drafting-room correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
preparatory to the programs either in the Preparatory
School of the University or in another accredited school;
or, entrance may be by examination at the University
on the first two days of the Fall Term or in Chicago
at the offices of the University on days announced in
the press of that city.
Students “may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the
routine of the courses must be worked 'off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in
Architecture, or in Architectural Engineering from
Notre Dame or another School of Architecture of
equal standing. The University will confer the Mas-
ter’s degree on her own graduate students not in res-
idence at the end of one year if that time is spent in
an atelier of the first order or in travel abroad follow-
ing an approved program of study and investigation;
or at the end of not less than two years if that time
is spent in practice and the University’s requirements
are complied with.
EQUIPMENT
The equipmnt of the • College of Architecture, from
a small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
95
complete. There are a number of signed drawings—
some from the Ecole de Beaux~Arts, others from archi-
tects of national reputation; a large elaborate model
complete in all its details of the New Cook County
Court House in Chicago; photographs, engravings,
plaster models, reference books and manufacturers’
catalogues and samples. The collection, however,,
needs to be increased faster than the resources of the
a
University will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre
Dame can not give money, or its equivalent, for a
better purpose. The endowment of a Traveling Fellow-
ship, preferably for the study of European Ecclesias-
tical Architecture, will be a benefaction of the utmost
value. One thousand dollars will provide for one
man for one year.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
English. Part of the examination time" is^given
ifAL. fix.
for answering questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in the preparatory courses in^lEnglish;
the remainder for writing an essay.
Algebra. Fundamental operations, simple equa-
tions, involution and evolution, radicals, radical equa-
tions and quadratic equations, including everything
up to logarithms, as given in Wentworth's College Algebra,
or of an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Ancient, Medieval and Modern History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained
in the ordinary text-books.	&
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equi-
valent.
9$	BtLEETlN OF THE
Botany. Elementary.
Zooeogy. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in high schools of good standing. Laboratory
work is required.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text book
similar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory
Work is also' required.
'Civics. Elementary.
Trench. A three years’ course in Trench is re-
' quired. Ability to translate Trench into English,
and easy English sentences into Trench. Or,
German. A three years’ course in German is re-
quired. Ability to translate German into English,
and easy English sentences into German.
Drawing. A knowledge of the use of drawing
instruments, of projection drawing and elementary
freehand.
Subjects required for Treshman standing: English
4, Mathemetics 3%, History 2, Science 2 (Chemistry
and Physics); Trench or German, 3; Drawing, %:
Electives, 1.
THE PROGRAM IN DESIGN
DsgicBEs: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to arrange it that the student pursuing
it will have upon completion a liberal education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural
Design and Composition. It may be undertaken
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME	97
by students whose artistic intuition and tempera-
ment fit them especially for the aesthetic side of a
noble profession.
The course is built up around the work in the draft-
ing-room and atelier, where half of the student’s time
is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the Fresh-
man year with the intelligent study of the orders and
simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by
means of minor and major problems involving the
planning of all classes of building from the simplest
to the most monumental, is supplemented and rounded
out by exercises in the various methods and media
of rendering and by a thorough course in freehand
and modeling. All instruction in planning and com-
position is based on accepted principles of design.
The materials and methods of all trades and pro-
fessions engaged in building operations are system-
atically studied in the Construction classes through-
out the four years of the program. The writing of
specifications for .each branch in labor is studied syn-
chronously. Practical work in the various trades
is given so that the student may know good work
and thus be able to superintend construction intel-
ligently. The practical lessons are supplemented by
trips to the important building operations and in-
dustries in the neighborhood of the University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and numer-
ous practical problems solved.
Working drawings and detail of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College
98
BULLETIN OB THE
in outlining the construction courses to equip the
student to solve by office methods any problem he
may meet in ordinary practice, it being taken for granted
that graver problems requiring a deep knowledge
of the higher mathemetics may well be left to the
architectural engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of
high professional standing will give a number of lectures
in this course.
A history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering four years. The method
is a combination of lectures, recitations and research.
Courses either in mathemetics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years com-
plete the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism
and research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
DbgrBEs: Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering.
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be thor-
ough, the engineer must specialize. One of his special-
izations is in Architecture. His services are needed
to frame important buildings, to design their found-
ations and to protect adjoining property while they
are in erection. The modern idea of education is to
progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs.
The College offers the Program in Architectural Engineer-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	99
ing because there is need of the service of the men
who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Bngi-
neers should have a bent for mathematics and for
painstaking, exact draughting.
The program of studies differs from that of the
Program in Design chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied mathematics are sub-
stituted for the courses in English, economics and
philosophy; the more important construction courses
go deeper into theory; freehand work ends with the
first year; the study of Historic Ornament and the
Histories of the “Allied Arts” is omitted; and a rel-
atively greater amount of time, increasing each year
is spent in structural design.
The Graduate year is spent entirely in the solving
of problems of the first order in architectural engi-
neering.
THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiency.
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class-room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year then
in either of the complete programs.
Ordinarily the same entrance subjects are demanded
for the Short Program as for the Programs in Design
and Engineering. A student may be allowed to take
up work in the Short Program who is sufficiently mature
n years and has had enough practical experience
to warrant his following the work with profit.
IOO
bulletin or Th^
SUMMER WORK
Summer, or Vacation Work, consists of sketches,
projects, measured drawings or work in an architect’s
office will be required of all students of architecture
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the drafting-room.
It is the intention to have the students work steadily
for four hours in the drafting-room.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
IOI
PROGRAM IN DESIGN
first year
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
English	3	150	I	English	.	3	150	I
El. of Arch.	8	119	I	El. of Arch.	8	119	I
Construction	4	I l6	I	Construction	4	Il6	I
Hist, of Arch.	2	114	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	114	I
Drawing Des. Geom.	2	140	Ic	Drawing	2	140	Id
Shades and Shadows	I	142	III	Perspective	1	142	III
second year
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Design	8	119	II	Design	8	119	II
Construction	3	116	II	Construction	3	116	II
Hist, of Arch.	2	114	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	114	II
Drawing	2	140	Ila	Drawing	2	140	Ha
Graphics	2	137	XV	Graphics	2	137	XV
The'y of Des.	1	120	VII				
THIRD YEAR
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Design	8	119	III	Design	8	119	III
Construction	1	117	III	Construction	1	H7	III
History of				History of			
Ornament	2	ii5	III	Sculpture	2	ii5	IV
Drawing	2	140	lib	Pen and Ink	1	144	XIII
Heat and Vent.	2	117	V	Water Color	1	144	XI
				Sanitation	1	118	VI
Electricity	1	147	VII	Church Des.	1	118	VIII
FOURTH YEAR
Elective History of Painting Drawing Drawing Design	4 2 1 1 IO	ii5 142 144 119	V III XII IV	Elective Bus. Ethics Modeling Design Thesis	4 2 2 IO	118 143 119	I V IV
At the beginning of the First Year the student matriculating for the
Program in design may, with the consent of the Faculty, elect a Major in
Mathematics instead of the Major in English. The Mathematics courses for
the four years will be as follows: Algebra, I; Analytic Geometry, II; Cal-
culus, III, IV, V; Physics, II, III; Analytic Mechanics, VIII; Mechanics
of Materials, X.
At the beginning of his Third Year, the student following the regular
Program in Design may, if his proficiency in English warrants it, elect to
follow during the Third and Fourth Years one of the following courses: English,
Philosophy, Political Science, History, French or German. He may not, how- ,
ever, elect a course in the same language that he offered for credit at matric-
ulation. If the above election is denied the student, he must continue his
work in English for one or two years more as may be decided by the Faculty.
102
bulletin or thb
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	160	I	Anal. Geom.	5	l6O	II
Des. Geom.	3	142	I	Des. Geom.	3	142	I
Construction	4	Il6	I	Construction	4	Il6	I
Shades and Shadows	I	141	III	Perspective	1	141	III
Drawing	I	140	I	Drawing	1	140	II
Drawing	I	140	Ie	Drawing	1	140	Id
Bl. of Arch.	8	119	I	Bl. of Arch.	8	119	I
SECOND YEAR
Calculus	5	160	III	Calculus	5	161	IV, V
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Construction	4	116	II, III	Construction	4	116	II, III
Design	7	119	II	Design	2	119	II
Drawing Theory of	2	140	Ila	Drawing	7	140	Ila
Design	1	120	VII				
THIRD YEAR
Anal. Meehan.	5	133	VIII	Anal. Meehan.	2	133	VIII
Sanitary Bug.	2	136	XIII	Mechanics of			
Blectricity	1	147	VII	Materials	3	134	X
Heating and				Sanitary Bng. ’	2	136	XIII
Ventilating	2	117	V	Surveying	3	131	II, III
Hist, of Arch.	2	114	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	114	I
Struc. Design	8	120	V	Struc. Design	8	120	V
FOURTH YEAR
Arch. Bng.	2	117	IV	Arch. Bng.	3	117	IV
Bridges and Roofs	5	137	• XIV	Graphics History of	5	137	XV
Stereotomy	3	133	VI	Arch.	* 2	114	II
Hist, of Arch.	2	114	II	Bus. Bthics	2	118	I
Struct. Design	8	120	VI	Struct. Design Thesis	8	120	VI
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
103
SHORT PROGRAM
first year.
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	U3	I
Construction	4	116	I	Construction	4	116	I
Des. Geom. 1			III	Perspective	1	142	III
Shades and >-	1	142		Drawing	1	140	Id
Shadows j				Pen and Ink	1	144	XII
Drawing	1	140	Ic	El. of Arch.	4	119	IV
El. of Arch.	12	119	I	Design The’y of Des.‘	8	119	II
					1	120	VII
SECOND YEAR.
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	II
Construction	4	116	II, III	Construction	4	117	III
Graphics	2	137	XV	Graphics	2	137	XV
Heat and			V	Sanitation	2	118	VI
Ventilation	2	117					
Electricity	1	147	VII	Bus. Ethics	2	118	I
Water Color	1	144	XI	Drawing	4	140	Ila
Drawing	4	140	Ha	Modeling	2	141	V
Design	8	119	III	Design	8	119	III
104
BULUSTIN OB TH#
THE COLLEGE OF LAW
For several years a systematic movement has been
in progress, under the auspices of the bench and bar
of the country to elevate the standing and promote
the efficiency of the legal profession, and make it as
learned in fact as it is in name. The most essential
preliminary step to this end, as lawyers generally agree,
is to prescribe requirements and examinations more
comprehensive and rigorous as a test of qualifications
for admission to the bar. Under the influence largely
of the American Bar Association, the period now
commonly prescribed for the study of law in a college
is three years.
A period of three years’ study is prescribed for under-
graduates in the College of Law of the University of .
Notre Dame. The courses lead, when satisfactorily
completed, to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate program comprises an additional or fourth
year of residal study, and leads to the degree of Master
of Laws.
The degree of Doctor of Law (J. D.) or Doctor of
Civil Law (D. C. L) presupposes the degree of Bachelor
of Laws and a Bachelor’s degree in Arts or Science.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location
of the University for diligent and persevering work,
it is possible for industrious students to do at least
a fourth more a year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into
three classes, corresponding to each year of the pro-
gram leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate course is for students who have received
that degree and aim at attaining, by further study
and practical work, to a higher grade of proficiency.
A full year of study in each class is obligatory. More-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	105
over the student must pass a satisfactory general
examination at the close of each scholastic year. Grad-
uates entitled to vote are admitted to the bar on motion
of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are
admitted to the first year on presentation of a cer-
tificate of graduation from a four year High School
or Preparatory School of recognized standing, or by
examination in subjects mentioned on page 21. '
Students from other reputable law schools are re-
ceived at any time and allowed due credit for the work
previously done. They must, however, be in residence
for at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice
of the profession or have only been admitted to the
bar, as the case may be, are admitted to the Senior
class and entitled to the degree appropriate to their
work and standing at graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not intend to become candidates
for the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply
to add to their educational acquirements a knowledge
of the fundamental principles of law, may at any time
in the year have their names enrolled on the list of
special students. No extra expense is thereby incurred.
Yet they must be of sufficiently advanced age and
education to justify the belief that they can under-
stand and appreciate instruction in the law. No
particular academic entry requirement is prescribed
for them, aside from securing the consent of the Director
of Studies and being of sufficient age and capacity
to understand and profit by instruction in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that
io6
BULLETIN OB THE
an education is not complete without a knowledge of at
least the elementary legal principles. Many a person
has been forced to do exactly the contrary of
what he intended through his failure to understand
the essential elements of a contract. Many a one has
been compelled to pay heavy damages for personal
injuries caused by negligence, or failure to perform
a duty, or improper performance of it, where no lia-
bility would exist if the law of torts had been known
and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
The study of cases is usually begun in September
and continues long enough to enable students to under-
stand, analyze and criticise the decision assigned to
them for study and recitation. Lectures and explana-
tions supplement this work. After thus familiarizing
themselves with cases, they are expected to read the
authorities cited daily in class, whether in the text-
books, lectures or quizzes, and must report on their
readings. In moot court work, likewise, they are
prepared for actual practice by making a careful study
not only of the cases in the reports, but also of those
cited in text-books and digests.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of the
text-books they studied, and such as have merely
attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligible
to appear for examination. As many law students
come from States in which this test is applied, the
use of text-books is deemed necessary. The books
used by students become peculiarly serviceable in their
subsequent practice. They may be purchased in the
Students’ Office at the University at the lowest retai]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
107
prices. The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25 a
year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded
at Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination
with text-book work, case readings and daily examina-
tions/ its great value and utility can not be over-
estimated. Bach subject is fully covered by lectures,
text-book work, weekly quiz, monthly theses, bi-
monthly examinations, the reading of pertinent cases
and formal trials in the moot court and other courts
of the college. Students have also the advantage of
attending important cases in the higher courts of
South Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrious student
can accomplish twice as much in a given time at Notre
Dame as he can in an office or at home. With com-
parative immunity from the distractions and tempta-
tions of city life, he can give his entire time to study
and necessary recreation. In short, he can here study
a greater number of hours and do more class work
day by day than probably anywhere else in the country.
Students have from three to four recitations daily,
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. Brom one to two hours additional
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
two hours weekly are required for moot court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this
society and the moot court offer exceptional opportunity
and strong incentive to acquire readiness in debate,
fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much
benefit may be derived from attending the regular
classes in elocution and oratory in the College of Arts
and Betters.
io8	bulletin or th$
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law Pro-
gram it is studied, and kept before the class, with recita-
tions day by day at the same hour, until finished. It
is beliveed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would
be if frequently interrupted by the intervention of
other and dissimilar subjects.
THE MOOT COURT
All second and third year students are required to
attend and participate in the exercises of the moot court.
Students of the second year assist the Seniors and
Graduates in the conduct of the trials. The court is
fully organized, having a judge, clerk, state’s attorney,
sheriff, coroner and reporter. Pleadings are filed in the
clerk’s office, served and returned by the sheriff, brought
to an issue with due formality, by the attorneys, and
the trial proceeds under the rules of evidence before a
member of the Faculty acting as judge.
In addition to the moot court, which corresponds
to the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully-
equipped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk,
master-in-chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its
district judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and
reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in
their work. The statement of facts in the cases tried
is furnished by the Faculty. Students acquire in this
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
109
way a knowledge of the customary procedure in the
regular, courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether
any of them shows any more care in the choice of
books, or is better adapted for the use of students.
All the latest reports of State and Federal courts are
on its shelves, and no difficulty is experienced at any
time in finding the cases needed for reference, thesis
writing and moot court work. A great library with a
crowdingly large attendance of students—too many
to be personally known by or to have personal attention
from the Faculty—may often be less available for use
or accessible than a comparatively small one. It happens
sometimes in such cases that twenty or more students
are found vainly scrambling at the same time to secure
possession of a particular report or text-book. Such
experience, fortunately, does not fall to the lot of the
young men studying at Notre Dame. Not only all the
latest reports, but likewise the leading text-books,
are to be found on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in Moot
court trials, but must not be carried to private rooms.
This rule is rigidly enforced by the librarian. It is
intended for the advantage and to facilitate the work
of the students in common, for all have a right to
feel reasonably certain that when a book is needed
it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
4,000, but so carefully have they been selected that
they may be said to surpass in practical utility many
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the law
IIO
BULLETIN 0^ THE
lecture room. It is practically open all day and until
9:30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation are
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable hours
to law students. The library privileges are on a generous
scale, and students are not specially charged for making
proper use of the books, but if a book is lost or injured
through negligence the cost of the book is charged to
the borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
hold its meetings weekly. ' First year students of the
College are members of it. They are required, each in
his turn, to participate in its debates and other exercises.
The debates commonly deal with questions germane to
the law, but subjects of history, political economy, and
the like, are also discussed; in addition, a thorough
drill in parliamentary law proceedings is given. An
excellent opportunity is afforded at the meetings of
the society to develop skill, power and fluency in public
speaking. One of the professors usually presides and
aids the members with his counsel and suggestions.
THE COURSES IN LAW
FIRST YEAR
Elements of Law. Sixteen weeks.
Real Property. Sixteen weeks.
Personal Property. Four weeks.
Torts. Ten weeks.
Contracts. Sixteen weeks.
Criminal Law. Ten weeks.
Persons and Domestic Relations. Ten weeks.
Sales. Eight weeks.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
III
Agency. Ten weeks.
Partnershiy. Kight weeks.
English I. Thirty-six weeks, three times a week.
Parliamentary Law and Debating weekly.
SECOND YEAR
Criminal Procedure. Ten weeks.
Damages. Twelve weeks.
Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy. Fourteen weeks.
Suretyship and Guaranty. Fourteen weeks.
Bills and Notes. Sixteen weeks.
Intrepretation of Laws. Six weeks.
Insurance. Twelve weeks.
Bailments and Carriers. Ten weeks.
Wills, Executors and Administrators. Fourteen weeks.
Medical Jurisprudence. Lectures.
Moot Court. Practice weekly.
Logic. Twenty-two weeks, four hours a week.
Ethics. Fourteen weeks, four hours a week.
THIRD YEAR
Evidence, Civil and Criminal. Twelve weeks.
Constitutional Law. Twelve weeks.
Equity Jurisprudence. Twelve weeks.
■ Corporations, Private. Sixteen weeks.
Corporations, Public. Ten weeks.
International Law. Ten weeks.
Code Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Common Law Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Equity Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Moot Court. Practice weekly.
Graduate Courses coyer the entire field by way
of review, together with Moot Court practice, office
work, etc. The optional studies include Roman law,
Admiralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright,
Patents, Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc.
112
BULLETIN OB THE
SCHEDULE OF CLASSES
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS	WEEKS	.PERIODS A WEEK
Elements of Law, Real and Personal Property		. . .36 . . .	• •-5-••
Torts, Contracts, Criminal Law		. . .36. . .	•• 5- • ■
Sales, Agency, Persons, Partnership		. . .36. . .	...5. . .
English, I		. . .36. . .	..-3- ■ •
Parliamentary Law and Debating		. . .36 . . .	
SECOND YEAR SUBJECTS		
Criminal Procedure, Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy, Damages		. . .36 . . .	.•-5 ••
Suretyship and Guaranty, Bills and Notes, Interpretation of Laws		...36...	• •-5- • ■
Insurance, Bailments and Carriers, Wills, Executors and Administrators		. - .36. . .	• •-5- • •
Logic			...4...
Ethics		. . .14. . .	...4...
Medical Jurisprudence, Moot Court		. . .36. . .	. . . 1. ..
THIRD YEAR SUBJECTS		
Corporations, Public and Private, Inter- national Law		. . .36. . .	••-5- ■ -
Evidence, Constitutional Law, Equity Jurisprudence 		. . .36. . .	••-5-•■
Common Law Pleadings, Equity Plead- ings, Code Pleadings		• - •36 • • •	••-5-••
Moot Court		. . .36. . .	. . . 1. ..
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
(In the description of the courses of instruction art
hour means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation,
or lecture room and one hundred and twenty minifies in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year, or eighteen weeks.')
BULLETIN OF the
114
ANATOMY
I.
Human Histology. Laboratory work and demon-
strations. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Human Physiology.
II.
Human Histology. Lectures, recitations and labo-
ratory work. The work covers a thorough course in
Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system—brain
and spinal cord, termination of nerve fibers, etc. Draw-
ings made from each preparation. Text-book, PiersoL
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Human Anatomy. Lectures and Recitations. Osteol-
ogy and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular,
vascular and nervous systems and of the organs of
special sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book,
Gray.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
ARCHITECTURE
I. AND II.
History of Architecture. This course includes
a study of the history, manners, customs, politics and
religion as well as of the Architecture of Egypt, Assyria,
^Greece and Rome. It takes up the rise and develop-
:ment of Christianity and the Christian types—Basil-
ficar, Romanesque; Byzantine and its Mohammedan
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	115
offshoots; Gothic and Renaissance in all their phases.
Some attention is paid to Indian, Chinese and Jap-
anese styles. A comprehensive review is made of
American work. In seminar the course is completed
by a study and discussion of the various phases of
'‘The New Art,” both abroad and in the United States.
Instruction is by text-book, lectures, readings and
research. Text-book, Hamlin, Sturgis.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Historic Ornament. A study of the origin and
evolution of all styles of ornament, and of its appli-
cation to architectural forms, appurtenances and objects
of art.	. .
Instruction by text-book, lectures, readings, and
drawings in various media.
In drawing fifteen plates are required.
Text-book, Glazier.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
History of Sculpture. A brief historical review
of ancient and modern sculpture.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Marquand and Frothingham.
N.
History of Painting. A brief historical and critical
review of Painting.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Van Dyke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
Il6	BUEEETIN OB THE
CONSTRUCTION
I.
In this course the student obtains a thorough know-
ledge of the materials and methods of masonry, car-
pentry, roofing, metal-working, painting. Bach trade
is considered separately, and at conclusion an exhaustive
study of specification writing and methods of estimat-
ing for it is made. Detail drawings of constructive
methods are made exactly as in an architect’s office.
In the spring term of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on the campus one of his pro-
jects and to furnish all levels required by the builder
in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of the .
architect’s level and compass.
The University constantly furnishes employment
to a large force of trained mechanics who will give
u?	o	o
personal lessons to the students in all branches of these
trades. Inspection visits are made regularly as a
supplementary exercise in superintendence, to important
building operations in the neighborhood.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Fifteen points must be made in inspections and
drawings.
Text-book, Kidder's Building Construction, Vols. I,
II; Kidder's Handbook. Supplementary, Sweet's Index.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
A ’ thorough study of foundation work—caissons,
piles, grillage, spread and stepped footings; fire proof-
ing of all forms; the design and construction of steel
framing.
Working drawings for one of the student’s pro-
jects are made. Bspecial care and accuracy are de-
manded in the preparation of the framing plans and
i
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	II?
details. This work is traced and blue-printed by
First Year students.
Instruction is by text-books and lectures. Bight
points must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vol. I; Frietag; Supplementary,
Sweet's Index, Carnegie and Bethlehem “Millbooks.”
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
A study of Reinforced Concrete; Elevators; Power
plants for buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Five points must be made in inspection and drawings.
Text-books, Watson; Supplementary, Sweet's Index,
Concrete Handbooks.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architecturae Engineering. A course in which
the student is taught to solve graphically and analyt-
ically more complicated problems in structural design
and applied mechanics. Shoring, underpinning, retain-
ing walls, jointed trusses, arches, vaults and domes
are the more important topics.
Instruction by text-book. Twelve points must be
made in instructions and drawings. ‘
Text-books, Kidder, Vols. I, III; Whitmann.
[Two hours a week for one term, three hours a week
for one term.]
V.
Heating and Ventilation. This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam,
etc.,—are carefully examined and studied. The radi-
Il8	BULLETIN OF THB
ation of heat from surfaces, the different systems of
piping, condition of air as to moisture, amount of
air required, causes and best means adopted to secure
pure air; the necessity of good ventilation and the
latest approved methods for securing this are some of
the topics considered in this study.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Carpenter.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Sanitation. The following are topics covered in
this course: The carrying awray of surface water and
wastes from the building; pipes and fittings; one and
two-pipe roughing-in systems; traps; domestic waste
supplies; pumping engines; heating of water for
domestic purposes; plumbing fixtures.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Cosgrove.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
BUSINESS ETHICS
I.
In this course is given descriptions of a system of
book-keeping suited to the needs of an architect’s
business, a system of building accounts, filing systems
for catalogue and prints, a card index system for prints
and general information; of forms for agreements with
bonds, and for certificates; the laws affecting clients,,
contractors and architects; and the rules of professional
ethics in private practice, competitions and municipal
affairs.	,
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Wait.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
119
DESIGN
I.
—-	* ®
Elements of Architecture. This is a course of
drawing. Thirty-tw'o plates of standard size (or their
equivalent) will be made during the year. They consist
of measured drawings of the Roman and Greek orders,
of the various details associated with them and of
simple problems involving their use; of lettering; of
exercises in wash and color; and of studies in shades,
and shadows and perspective.
Bach plate wTill be examined by the Professor in charge,,
and may be marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest
Mention,” counting M or 1 point, respectively.
All plates must be drawn and at least fifteen points
registered.
Instruction is by text-book.
Text-books, Ware von Mauch, McGoodwin.
[Right hours a week for two terms J
II, III AND IV.
These courses are the most important on the program.
In the solving of the problems the student makes use
of every item of information that he has acquired in ‘
all his other class-work, for the aim of the instruction
in design is, primarily, practicability. The planning is
straight-forward, logical and direct;—the design is
powerful, simple, and expressive. 'The method is
criticism. The means are major and minor problems
of varying degrees of difficulty varying from a masonry
gate-post to the most monumental projects. These
problems are stated in programs that are made definite
and practical and as like actual conditions as possible.
A recent problem was a public bath and reading room
^20
BU.IzIvBTIN OB THE
on an irregular shaped parcel of ground in the neighbor-
ing city. The students surveyed the ground before
beginning the sketches.	t
Second year men -are required to execute eight minor
and eight major problems; third year men, eight minor
•and six major problems; and fourth year men, four
minor and three major problems and the thesis.
These designs are criticised by the Professor in charge,
or by some -able' architect especially invited. They may
■be marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest Mention,”
-counting %, X or 1 point respectively for minor prob-
lems, and 2, 3, or 4 points for major problems.
Fifteen points must be registered in second year
design, as many in third year design, and eight in
fourth year design before thesis work is started.
[Bight, eight and ten hours a week, respectively, for
three years.]	.
'	' V, VI.
Structural Design. These Courses have the same
Relative importance as the courses in design. The
^analogy goes further, the work is given as major and
minor problems of varying degrees of difficulty and
is judged and marked in the same manner. The scope
of the problems will vary from the making of an ordinary
footing plan to the framing of the structural steel of
a large dome.
The amount of work and the points required to be
registered is the same for the same year under Design
n, in; iv.
[Bight hours a week for three years.]
VII.
Theory oe Design. A thorough study of the prin-
ciples of planning and proportion supplemented by
c
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
121
study of the perfection and faults of the world’s famous
buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Robinson.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Church Design. This course is conducted by means
of lectures and research. It includes the arrangements
of sanctuaries, sacristies and baptisteries as affected
by liturgical needs. The subject of church furniture
and accessories is also discussed.
[One hour a week for one term.]
ASTRONOMY
Astronomy. Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students
and to give them the training and information necessary
for intelligently executing certain departments of work
to which they may be assigned in the course of their
professional career. The course comprises a study of
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of
more precision than those used in ordinary surveying.
The adjustments and use of these instruments are
considered, and instruction is given in methods of
observation and computation; problems in finding
right ascensions and declination; different methods for
finding altitude, longtitude and time are studied in
detail, and the methods for finding right ascensions and
declination; different methods for finding latitude,
longitude and time are studied in detail, and the methods
of making the observation and their adjustments, and
discussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into
sidereal, and sidereal time into solar. In connection
with this subject is given a more complete study of
122
BULLETIN OB THE
many of the topics considered in elementary astronomy,
as here they are treated mathematically; as for example,
methods for finding parallax, computation of eclipses,
altitudes and correction for refraction. The subjects of
procession, nutation, annual aberration, proper motion
of stars, etc., are studied. Text-books, Young, Greene.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY
Lectures and Laboratory Work. Lectures on the
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
pointed out. The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture
media and in studying pure cultures of certain non-
pathogenic bacteria in these media. Observations on
the microscopic characteristics of bacteria and special
attention to the microscopic technique in bacteriological
work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic
germs by the various staining processes. Inoculation of
animals. Bacteriological investigation of water, air and
soil. Text-book, Abbott’s Principles of Bacteriology.
[Live hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	12 3;
BOTANY
I.
Botany. Lectures and recitations on the morphology'
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the-
development of the embryo and the processes of pollina- -
tion and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell,
of its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and
the various physiological phenomena; the structure,
growth, reproduction and general classification of the-
algae, fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants.
Text-book, Bastin's College Botany, Barnes & Coulter.
[Lour hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Botanical Laboratory. Supplementary to Course I.
Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryophta,
pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in Course I.
Drawings must be made of all plants examined. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become familiar with their morphol-
ogy, structure and classification. The course is to ac-
company or to be preceded by Course I. Provision is
also made in this course for students in pharmacy to take-
a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical botany..
Study of the determination and classification of the
simpler plants. The analysis of the phanerograms
occupies the time during the spring months and the
student is made familiar with the habitat and charac-
teristics of the local flora. Text-book for classification
of plants, Kellerman's Spring Flora.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Botany,. Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same-
124	BULLETIN OB THE
as that laid out in Strasburger's or Vine's text-book of
Botany. Special study is made of the physiology,
ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and classification of
plants. Text-book, Strasburger.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory tor Advanced Botany. Supplementary
to Course III., and either following or accompanying it:
(a)	Ptant Histology and Physiology. ^Half of the
time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to plant
histology and physiology. The student is required to
study practically the method of killing, fixing, embed-
ding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of
plant tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(b)	Plant Classification Advanced. The other
half of the laboratory work is devoted to the deter-
mination and classification of the more difficult plants,
the compositae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc.
Herbarium study is required, as well as preparing and
collecting plants for preservation. During spring and
autumn frequent excursions into the neighboring fields
and woods are made for the purpose of studying and'
•collecting for preservation the local aquatic and land
flora? Text-book, Britton's or Gray’s Manual.
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Systematic Botany. Principally laboratory and her-
barium work in special groups of phanerograms and
cryptograms. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in botany. Library,
reference books and seminar work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
125.
Graduate Work in Botany. Original research, in.
systematic botany. Plant history and cytology. Pre-
paratory to the Master’s or Doctor’s Degree.
CHEMISTRY
I.
(a)	General Chemistry. A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typical'
compounds. Text-book, Remsen’s Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the labora-
tory the work of the Course (I. a.) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A complete study of the elements and their
most important compounds, following the classification
based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a discussion
of the theories of the science. Text-book, Alexander-
Smith’s College Chemistry.	.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(6)	Bxperimentat Chemistry. A Laboratory course-
to accompany Course II., the work consisting of the
preparation by the student of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, there
is taken up the study of the reactions involved in the
separation and detection of the more common inorganic
bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of salts,.
BULLETIN OB THE
.126
-.and the complex substances, such as earths, ores, ashes,
•etc. Text-books, Perkin and Thorp, supplemented with
lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Qualitative Analysis. A course arranged for the
.students in Pharmacy, comprising a study of the com-
moner metals and acids, their reactions and separation.
'Text-book, Perkin.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Quantitative Analysis. Course suited to the needs
■of the students in Pharmacy, comprising the deter-
mination of substances, both gravimetrically and vol-
■umetrically. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
pours hours a week for one term.]
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
.principles involved in the quantitative separation and
^•estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Complete analysis of a number of
imple salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis
v. many complex substances. Text-book, Olsen.
pour hours a week fcr two terms.]
VI.
(a)	BlEmentary Organic Chemistry. Lectures
.and recitations. A systematic study of the hydro-
carbons and their derivatives, and the investigation of
their properties. Special attention is given to the
.aliphatic and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTER DAME	12'7
(b)	Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prep-
aration by the student in the laboratory of the most
important and typical organic compounds and the
investigation of their properties. Text-book, Gatter-
man’s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
(a) Urine Analysis. A course of laboratory exer-
cises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as
well as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(5) Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of poi-
soning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
i. Gas Analysis.
ii.	Water Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and Fats,
vi. Iron Analysis.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
128
BULLETIN OB THE
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. The term
is spent principally in the making of organic prepara-
tions by methods demanding special care, skill and
accuracy in the student.
[Six to eight hours a week for two terms.]
(c)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. This term
is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,,
special notes and reference work.
[Bight hours a week for one term.]
X.	.
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this
*
course the chemical bases and their compounds are-
considered, with special reference to their importance
in pharmacy and materia medica. Text-books, Sadtler’s-
and Trimble's Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
XI.
(a) Electrochemistry. Lectures, experiments and
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and
their application in the chemical industries, separation
of metals, the preparation of chemical elements and
electrosynthesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen,
and Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	129
(&) Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI. (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electro-
chemistry, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electro-
metallurgy. Quantitative determination of metals elec-
trolytically. Text-books, Lupke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History oe Chemistry. The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book.
Meyer. Reference to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(a)	Physical Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas
density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the phase rule,
thermochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van
Deventer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Experimental Physical Chemistry. Labo-
ratory work to accompany Course XIII. (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, mole-
cular weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling
point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
130
BULLETIN OB THE
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric deter-
minations of inorganic substances. Special reference
work. [Five hours a week for one term.]
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine,
FIRST YEAR
Moral. The Articles of the Creed. The General
Principles of Morality, Virtue and Sin. The Command-
ments of God. Text-book, Manual of Christian Doctrine.
SECOND YEAR
Moral The Commandments of the Church. The
Bvangelical Counsels and Beatitudes. Worship and
Means of Sanctification,—Grace, Prayer, the Sacraments,
Liturgy. Text-hook, Manual of Christian Doctrine.
THIRD YEAR
Dogma. Revealed Religion. Pre-Christian Revela-
tion. The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church.
God Considered in Himself. Text-book, Wilmer's Hand-
book of the Christian Religion.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME’	131
FOURTH YEAR
Dogma. God the Creator. God the Redeemer.
-Sanctification. Grace. The Sacraments. The Church
as a Means of Salvation. Text-book, Wilmer's Hand-
book of the Christian Religion.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are con-
sidered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, double curved, and warped surfaces;
problems relating to tangent planes, to single curved,
double curved and warped surfaces; intersection of
surfaces; spherical projections; orthographic, stere-
ographic, globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
construction of maps, shades and shadows; linear per-
spective; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises requiring
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry,
are added by the instructor. Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land suryeving and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supply omis-
sions;; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land;
dividing up land: public lands survey. Text-book.,
Breed and Hosmer.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
132
BURRFTIN of thk
III.
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught
in the class room; practice in keeping field notes;
computation and plots.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
IV.
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II,
and can not be taken until the completion of that
course. It treats of the adjustment, use, and care of
all kinds of engineering instruments; problems pertain-
ing to solar attachment; topographical surveying with
the transit and stadia; mining surveying, mining claims;
survey of mines with shafts and drifts; determining
positions of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface;
theory of hydrographic and city surveying; geodetic
surveying and leveling; measuring base lines; adjust-
ments of angles, triangles, and quadrilaterals; latitude
and azimuth; time and longtitude; changing mean
time into sidereal time and siderael time to mean time.
Text-book, Johnson.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
Surveying. Bxercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in .the fields, leveling; practice in
hydrographic surveying.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VI.
Railroad Surveying. This course comprises all
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	133
the theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets; obstacles to location of curves;
special problems in curves; theory of compound curves;
turnouts and crossings; curving the rail on curves and
elevation of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical
curves; earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory
of excavation and embankment; correction in excava-
tion on curves; cross-section leveling; theory of the
transition curve and practical applications. Text-book,
Searle, Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Railroad Surveying. Bxerrises in the field; staking
out and running tangents, simple, compound and tran-
sition curves; execution on the ground of many prob-
lems previously treated theoretically; survey for a short
line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and setting
slope stakes; making profiles and maps; calculating
the necessary excavations and embankments and cost
of construction; culverts.
»
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises
a study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
students to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation
of energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
134
BULLETIN OB THE
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia,,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction,
etc.
[For Civil Engineering Students, five hours a week for
first term. Two hours a week for second term.]
[Tor students in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, and
Mining Engineering, five hours a week for
fourteen weeks.]
IX.
*
Geodesy. This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil and Mining Engineering students in the Junior
year, and comprises a study of the instruments and
methods of observation, base measurements and field
work of the triangulation; method of least squares,
elementary course; calculation of the triangulation,
the theory of probable errors; geodic latitudes, longi-
tudes, and azimuths. This is followed by a brief'
discussion of the figure of the earth. Text-book,
Merriam.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Mechanics or Materials. This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students^
and to prepare them, by study of the action and effect
of forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete-
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of
the materials of engineering, their properties and method
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple-
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and con-
tinuous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
135
are examined according to Euler’s, Rankine’s and other
formulae, and results compared. Some of the other
subjects considered in this course are torsion of shafts,
the transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and
torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams, rein-
forced concrete beams, plate griders and other forms.
Then is studied the subjects, resilience and work,
impact and fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal
tension and flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,
the course closing with a study of the mathematical
theory of elasticity.
[Tor students in Civil Engineering, three hours a week
for two terms.]
[Eor students in Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and
Chemical Engineering, three hours a week
for twenty-two weeks.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended
to familiarize the student with the practical details
of laying out and constructing highways, the method
of drainage, grading, and most suitable road covering,
the improvement of streets in cities and materials
used for paving and covering. The manner of pre-
paring the street before paving is placed in position is
fully considered and illustrated. The course includes
a thorough discussion of the theory of pavements and
a description of the various materials used, such as
cobble and stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood and broken
stone pavements. The method of preparing plans
and specifications for the various conditions arising
are considered and original plans are prepared by
students. Attention is also given to the construction
BUIJETIN of ths
of street-car tracks in paved streets. Text-book,
Baker.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering. This course is taken by students
of Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches
the best approved methods of constructing engineer-
ing works and the styles of structures suitable for
different localities. The study is quite comprehensive,
including the general theory of the arch and appli-
cation to the voussoir arch; the theory of earth pressure,
and the design of retaining walls; foundations suit-
able for structures of various classes in connection
with which the student becomes acquainted, not only
with the methods for ascertaining the bearing power
of the foundation, but also the means for constructing
deep foundations. The methods for tunnel construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included
in the course and given by text-book and lectures.
The part pertaining to masonry construction includes
a study of the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the
manner of testing foundations under water, the crib
and open caisson process, the pneumatic process, the
theory of masonry arches and design, arch centers,
selection of site for bridge piers and arrangement
of spans, the details of construction of bridge piers
and manner of location, specifications for masonry,
etc. Text-books, Howe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study
of the principles and methods of drainage and disposal
of sewage in populous districts: shape, material and
calculation of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ven
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	I37
dilation; separate and combined systems compared;
pollution of rivers; chemical precipitation; results
and costs of purification; general municipal and do-
mestic sanitation; inspection of neighboring works.
Text-books, Staler and Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roots. This course comprises a
study of the different systems of trussed bridges and
roof trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced
when loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure
and the effect of wind included. Both graphical and
analytical methods are used. Besides the various
.systems of trussed bridges, which are studied in detail,
the plate girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges,
draw bridges, and roofs of various designs are given
■equal attention; the purpose being to familiarize
the student with the different forms and enable him
to design and to estimate the cost of construction.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Rive hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the determina
of stresses in framed structures by the graphical method.
Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of gravity,
.and moments of inertia are graphically determined
by the application of the principles of the force and
equilibrium polygons; also the determination of stresses
in bridge trusses with parallel chords and with broken
chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive wheel
loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof
trusses, graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical
and unsymmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-
ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams;
138
BUUzETlN OP THP
temperature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied
to continuous girders. This course is supplemented
by full explanations, notes, examples and problems.
Text-book, Memman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
An elementary course two hours a week for two
terms is given to students following the Program
in Design and Short Program in Architecture.
o	XVI.
Hydrombchanics. This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydro-
dynamics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects admitted are the transmission of pressures,
• center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem
with friction: Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula;
flow over weirs, and through tubes; flow in pipes;
loss of head in friction and other losses; flow in conduits,
canals, and rivers, velocities in cross sections; methods
of gauging the flow, measurement of water power,
dynamic pressure of flowing water; designing of water-
works and standpipes; hydraulic motors and relative
merits; discussion of water wheels of different types,
and a study of the conditions determining high ef-
ficiencies; classification of turbines, and a complete
study and discussion of the different forms.
[For students in Civil engineering, three hours a
week for two terms.]
[For students in Flectrical, Mechanical, Mining and
Chemical engineering, two hours a week for
twenty-two weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
J39f
DRAWING, ARTISTIC
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough
foundation in drawing for those who wish to make
Art a profession, but the courses are so arranged as
to be accessible to other students. The system of
teaching, which is that followed in the best art schools,,
is intended to develop the individuality of each student,
so that with a good understanding of the principles-
or art he may interpret nature according to his own
temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, objects and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the Uni-
versity buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River
offer many beautiful subjects for the study of land-
scapes, and the classes are taken out in the summer
for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was carefully selected at the National School
of Tine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows :
Fuee Figure. The Diadumenos (British Museum);
the Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are
full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically:
the Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michael
Angelo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre);
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads. Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus (Rome,,
the Capitol); Cato (Rome, and Vatican); Cicero
(Rome, the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa
(Louvre); Venus (Vatican); Centurion (Naples);
Ariadne (the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples);
Vestal (Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters
of Niobe (Florence.)
140
BULLETIN OB THB
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and
architectural ornaments, taken from monuments of
antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and
of' elements of the human figure (hands, feet, etc)
from the antique and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(a)	Drawing from casts or ornaments purely goe-
metrical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc.
Sketching from simple objects.
(b)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which
the elements are living forms, such as ornamental
leaves and flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves
and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on
perspective, direction of the principal lines in relation
to the horizon. Elementary notions of the five orders
of architecture.	■
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure; hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketch-
ing from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a)	Drawing from the antique heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape.
Applications of perspective.
(6)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketch-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	141
ing from the costumed model. Still life,tin .water
colors. History of Art.
III.
LiEE Class. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science
Hall. Still life painting in water colors and oil. Land-
scape painting. Drawing for illustrations.
IV.
Sketch Class. One hour a week. The students
have themselves an organization, “The Crayon Club/"
the object of which is to sketch college scenes and to
do illustrative work; these sketches are brought into
class and criticised.
V.
Modeling. In the spring terms of the Sophomore,
Junior and Senior years in Architecture modeling in
clay is taken up. The objects modelled are archi-
tectural forms, copied from casts or made from the
student’s drawings of his own work, as his progress
and ability may warrant.
VI.
Class or Decorative Design. The object of
this department is to prepare students for professional
work in decorative designing of all kinds. They will
take up the study of historical ornaments and will
be taught the several principles of the arrangement
of designs, and from personal sketches of plants and
flowers will be shown the art of making original de-
signs for wall paper, book covers, stained glass, carpets,
interior decorations, metal plates, etc. No particular
program is given out as the teaching is purely individual.
i42
BULLETIN op the
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
Drawing A and B (see pages 198, 199) are required
to take up drawing I, II.
Two hours of actual time in drawing are required
for each credit hour in the schedule.
I.
Freehand. This course consists in sketching with pen-
cil from various models of the different machine parts.
Later in the term, the use of instruments is taken up
illustrating problems in the Engineering course. Text-
book, Jamison's Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the
principles of projection, methods of shop-drawing,
tinting, tracing, blueprinting, line-shading and the
preparation of working drawings of complete machines.
This course must be preceded by Course I. Text-
book, Jamison's Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates
is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic
and spherical projections, shades and shadows, per-
spective and isometric projections. (Students in Archi-
tecture are required to do advanced work in shades and
.shadows and perspective.')
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing. Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involv-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	143
ing the application of kinematics and the computation
of dimensions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
from surveys. This course must be preceded by
Course I. Text-book, Reed.
VI.	.
SterEOTomy. This course comprises a study of
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geo-
metry to the determination of the forms and sizes
of the stones used in the construction of the different
classes of arches and masonry structures. This course
is given by lectures in the drawing room, explaining
the construction of templates, and the use of directing
instrument; also explanations of methods of draw-
ing plans, elevation and development of oblique arches,
wing walls and the like. A certain numner of plates
and drawings is required, illustrating the methods
of performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry construction, foundations, dams, piers,
abutments, culverts, and arches. Text-book, French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from simple
framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of various
designs,—required of Juniors in -Civil Engineering.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail draw-
ings,—a short general course of bridge designing for
Seniors.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
144
BULLBTIN OB THB
VIII.
MachinB Drawing. A continuation of Course I.,
and II. embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical de-
sign with calculation of dimensions and construction
of drawings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low’s
Machine Drawing and Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
RrBBhand. The principles of freehand drawing
in pencil and pen from objects, and later from bio-
logical specimens, plants, animals and microscopical
preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
RrBBhand. Advanced drawing from plants and
anatomical dissections of animals. Illustrations for
publications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Watbr Color. Drawing in water color from still
life and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
Rbndbring in Watbr Color. The rendering of
architectural drawings, including perspectives,—cast-
ing of shadows, color treatments of buildings and
handling of foreground and background.
«	[One hour a week for one term.]
XIII.
PBN and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art;
followed by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
145
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
I.
AppeiEd EeEctricity. A course of lectures and
recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on
the general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
application to practical work, as follows: Setting up
and testing primary and secondary batteries, systems
of call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire
and burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines,
switch boards and accessories. Experiments with
inductoin coils, magnets, switches, voltmeters, am-
meters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers and other
measuring instruments. The study of direct current
generators and motors, arc and incandescent lighting
systems, street railway machinery and appliances, electric
heating and forging, electrolytic process, etc. Text-
book, Swoope’s Practical Electricity.
[Five hours a week for two terms J
II.	•
AppeiEd EeEctricity. Lectures and laboratory work
on the construction and testing of switches, magnets,
measuring instruments, induction coils, etc.. The-
calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits for-
lighting and power, the experimental study of alternat-
ing current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling-
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishnig, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to
special purposes. This course must be preceded by
Course I. {Course I. and II. are required in the Shortt
1^6
BURBBTIN OB THE)
Program Electrical Engineering; they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy.')
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Bynamg-Bbbctric Machinery. Recitations on the
-physical reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical
points, theory of armature winding, the mathematical
theory of alternating currents, phase relations, modern
forms of single phase and multiphase generators and
motors, design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon's
Dynamo Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason's Alter-
nating Currents.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
FlBctrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring
buildings for lights and power, testing circuits for
insulation .and grounds, construction and operation of
•storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
'characteristic curves of particular machines under
■ediff erent conditions, efficiency tests of motors by
^absorption dynamometer methods, alternating current
• dynamo and transformer tests, the testing of storage
batteries, and complete plant efficiency tests. Careful
notes are taken.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Designing. The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance and other electrical
.-apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location
= of circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawings
' of direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
yplants for power and lighting.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
I47
VI.
Dynamo Machinery. Laboratory. Study of funda-
mental principles, characteristics of D. C. dynamos,
speed and torque of motors, A. C. generators and motors,
transformers and accessories, power measurements and
efficiency tests.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
VII.
Appeied Electricity, Laboratory and Lectures
on the uses of electricity in buildings, systems of wiring,
materials used, the Underwriting requirements for
study of bells and telephones, electric lighting, phyto-
metry and illumination. Tor students in Architecture.
■ [One hour a week for two terms.]
VIII.
Power Transmission. Lectures and recitations on
pole lines, underground work, limits of voltage, insu-
lators, choice of frequency, cost of construction, de-
preciation and other financial matters.	’
[One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
BeEcTric Raieways. Lectures and recitations on
track and overhead construction, cars, trucks, motors
and systems of control for both direct and alternat-
ing current, sub-stations, operation and financial
considerations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
TeeEphony. Laboratory and lectures on general
principles, intercommunicating systems, switchboard
systems, manual and automatic, operation, cost of
equipment, maintenance and depreciation.
[One hour a week for one term.]
BULLETIN OF THE
Izl8
XI.
Wireless telegraphy and Telephony. Experi-
mental practice and lectures on the theories involved
in the construction and operation of the leading systems,
osculators and sending apparatus, detectors and receiv-
ing devices, turning to prevent interference.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Illuminating Engineering. Lectures on the theory
and operation of the various kinds of electric and
other lamps, distribution of light and the loca-
tion of lamps to produce the best illumination,
practical problems and the study of particular institu-
tions, the cost per candle power or per candle foot includ-
ing first cost, attendance, breakage and depreciation.
[Two hours a week for ten weeks.]
XIII.
Inspection Trip to Chicago. Study of the larger
power, lighting and telephone installations also factory
methods in several typical industrial establishments,
trips to the hydraulic and steam generating plants
along the St. Joseph river.
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I.
Readings and Declamations. This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Each
student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of
Course I. Each student is required to give three
declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
I49
III.
Practical Elocution. Exercises in breathnig, voice
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation
and emphasis and their application in the reading of
selections. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s Practical
Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.	.
Practical Elocution. Further exercises in breath-
ing, voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and
time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on
the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and True-
blood’s Practical Elocution.
1	[One hour a week for one term.]
V.
Oral Discussions. The application of formal logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and
a course in logic are required for admission to this
course. Sections are limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Oratory. A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Each student is required to write and
deliver a biographical oration on one of the great
orators. Lectures on methods of public address. Courses
III. and IV. above, and Course I. in English are required
for admission to this course. Sections are limited to
twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VII.
Shakespearean Reading. The critical and artistic
reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with
bulletin of the
150
stage action. The students present the play by scenes
before the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for
admission to this course. Sections are.limited to twenty-
four students.	«
VIII.
Assembly Work. This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists
of debates, short orations, minute speeches, declama-
tions, impromptu and drill work in parliamentary law.
[One hour a week for four terms.]
ENGLISH
I.
Genung’s Principles of Rhetoric. A study of the
complete text. Frequent practice in simple theme work,
versification. Writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
[Three hours a week for two terms.] •
II.
£’	o
(a)	Bssay and Oration. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Poetry and the Poets. Texts, theory and
critical study.
[Three hours a week for twenty two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
■ III.
Fiction, (a) The Short Story, technically, historic-
ally and critically considered.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(&) The Novel, technically, historically and critically
considered.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
UNIVERSITY of NOTRE DAME	I5T
Practice in. writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
IV.
The Drama, (a) Hennequin’s The Art of Playwriting.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of
Shakespeare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen weeks.]
(c)	Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present
time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects specified attention will be given-
to current’ productions with a view of properly ac-
quainting the student with the writers of the day.
Graduate Work in Engeish. Students wishing to«
do advanced work in English will be provided with,
library facilities and led through the usual work for the-
degree of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Vacuity of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form
or epoch, or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by professors make up the course.
GEOLOGY
I.
PrincipeES of Geoeogy. Lectures, recitations, dem-
onstrations. The study of the general features of the
earth; the material composing the accessible parts of
the earth; the arrangements of the material in rocks;:
the causes of geological changes; the history of the
earth and the various forms of life that existed in the
15 2	BULLETIN OF THE
different periods of successive geological ages. Text-
book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
'	II.
MinehAlogy. The object of this course is to train
the student to identify minerals by their physical
characteristics, such as crystal form, cleavage, color,
hardness and specific gravity without having to resort
to blowpipe or chemical tests except in the rare minerals.
Recitations are made upon drawers of minerals in which
the student points out the distinguishing features by
which he recognizes the different minerals. Text-
kook, Dana.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
■ III.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]	i
IV.	’”1
Crystallography. In this course there is made a
complete study of the laws in the different systems of
crystal formation, by means of laboratory work in
-'models, natural crystals and cleavage specimens.
‘Text-book, Williams.	’
V.
'Petrography. This course is a study of rocks with
regard to their classification,, structure, mineralogical
constituents, chemical composition and alterations; a
study of the physical characters of the minerals shown
in thin transparent rock sections with the aid of the
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	153
microscope; a practical study of rocks in the hand
specimens and also in summer field work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Geology, Physical and Chemical. A course treating
of the origin and alterations of rocks, of general eruptive
and earthquake action, metamorphism, faulting, joint-
ing, and mountain building: the action of atmospheric
agencies, surface and underground waters. All of which
subjects are specially considered in their application
to mining pursuits. Text-book, Chamberlain and Salis-
bury's Geology.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Geology, Economic Mining. A study of the genesis -
of the useful ore deposits, both metallic and non-
metallic; an analysis of the relation existing between
structural, dynamic and chemical geology, petrography
and the ore deposits encountered in mining operations.
Frequent reference is made to the bulletins, monographs
and reports of the United States Geological Survey.
Lectures and recitations.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
GERMAN
I.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation from German into
English of simple prose; translation of English exercises
into German. Reading of short stories and selections
from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
154
BULLETIN OB THB
II.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history. Sight
reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Eichenstein, Hauff.
[Dive hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems
and prose writing. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; Best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Dour hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK
I.
HomBr. Iliad. Text Edition.
Eysias. Select Orations.
St. John Chrysostom. Eutropius. (Elective.)
Prose Composition.
[Dour hours a week for two terms.]
II.
HomBR. Odyssey. Text Edition. (Elective.)
Selections from Herodotus.
St. Basil. De Profanis Scriptoribus.
St. Gregory. Machabees. (Elective.)
Advanced Prose Composition.
[Dour hours a week for two terms.]
III.
DbmosthbnHS. The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics.
Thucydidbs. One book, selected. (Elective.)
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	155
Aeschyeus. One play, selected. (Elective.)
SophoceES. Oedipus Tyrannus.
Primer oe Greek Literature. Jebb.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
BuripideS. One play, selected.
Aristophanes. One play, selected.
Pindar. Selected Odes. (Elective.)
Greek Fathers: St. Basil: The Martyr Gordius.—
St. John Chrysostom: The Return of Bishop Flavian.—
St. Gregory Nazianzen: Funeral Oration of Caesarius.
(Elective.)
Peato. The Apology and Crito.
Thesis. Subject assigned or selected with approval
of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
Graduate Work in Greek. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Greek language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who look forward to-
the Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work
vdll be the Greek seminar, devoted to the interpretation
of passages selected for that purpose by the director
¥
of the seminar, and to a critical study of one particular
author or of a group of authors in the same department
of Greek literature; as for instance, Homer, Plato or
the orators, the historians, the dramatists, etc.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of comparative philology, on
comparative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
For those who desire a broader basis for their lin-
guistic studies, an elementary course in Sanskrit will
be offered.
156
bulletin of the
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of
the Hellenic world. Readings and examinations on
required texts. This course is given in alternate years
with Course I. (6).
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions.
Readings, and examinations on required texts. This
course is given in alternate years with Course I. (a).
In both courses the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges’ The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
II.
(a)	The History of the Middle Ages from the
invasion of the barbarians, and the history of the
periods of the Renaissance and the Reformation to the
French Revolution. Readings, and examinations on
required texts.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(6)	The General History of Furore from the
French Revolution to the present time. Readings, and
examinations on required texts.	‘
* [Four hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
III.
The History of the British Isles to the Rev-
olution in 1769. For the narrative Gardiner's Student's %
‘ History is used as a text and is supplemented by lectures.
In the study of the development of political institutions
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	157
Feilden’s Constitutional History is used. In addition,
students shall make free use of the libary in preparing
special topics upon which they will report in class.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY
IV.
(a) American History from Its Beginning to
1763. A large part of the work of this and the follow-
ing course consists in the preparation and presentation
in class of special topics by the students. An effort
will be made to train the student in the use of original
sources as well as in the discriminating use of secondary
works. Weekly written tests are given upon the lec-
tures and the assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) American History erom 1763 to the Present
Time. Treatment as in (a) above. Also a book review,
a bibliographical report and a biographical essay by
each student.	-
* .
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(c) American Church History from Its Begin-
ning to the Present Time.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IRISH HISTORY
(a) Irish History from the BarliEst Colonists
to the Present Time. The purpose of the course is to
acquaint the student with the true story of Ireland by
presenting a statement of facts. Barly Irish religious
beliefs, customs, racial characteristics, systems of
government are discussed, and specific topics are as-
signed for research work.
158	BULLETIN of the
(5) A course of lectures on the modern Celtic move-
ment with a study of the modern Irish writers.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLISH HISTORY
VI.
History of the primitive Slavs. The Rise of the Polish
Nation. The Bpoch of the Piast-Dynasty (962-1386).
The Jagiellonian Bpoch (1386—1572).
Poland during the rule of the Rlector Kings (1572—
1795)-
Poland in its Partitions. From 1795 to the present
time. Polish Bmigration.
No particular text-book is used in this course. It
is a lecture-course; and the student is required to
read up the principal authors, along the line of the
notes gathered from the lecture in class.
Research Work in History. Facilities are offered
to graduate students who wish to do advanced work
in history leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s
degree. Evidence of ability to begin specializing must
be given by candidates who have received their
Bachelor’s degree at another College. The work is
directed in the seminar and is supplemented by
lectures.
LATIN
I.
Livy. Selections. Dennison.
Bucolics and Georgies. Frieze.
Cicero. De Senectute and De Amicitia. Shuck-
burgh-Egbert.
o o
Prose Composition. Scheier.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	159
II.
Cicero. De Oratore. Wilkins.
Horace. Odes and Satires. Wickham.
Advanced Prose Composition. Scheier.
[Dive hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Livy. Book I. Dennison.
Horace. The Literary epistles and the Ars Poetica.
Wickham.
Tacitus. Agricola and Germania. Gudeman.
Terence. One Play, selected.
Original Latin Themes.. (Two a month.)
Seminar. Papers on the Authors and their Works.
(Once a month).
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Ouintidian. De Institutione Oratoria, Book X. and
XII. Frieze.
PdauTus. Captivi. Barber.
Cicero. De Officiis. Crowell.
A Thesis. Subject assigned or selected with approval
-of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
Graduate Work in Latin. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Latin language and literature will
be provided for graduate students who are candidates
for the degree of Master or Doctor. The work will be
directed in the seminar and be devoted to a critical
study of one particular author or group of authors.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on comparative philology and comparative
grammar.	&
i6o
bulletin of the
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the binomial
thereom, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,,
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows
a thorough study of the general properties and solution
of equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives,
transformation, detached coefficients, surd and imagin-
ary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, DesCartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem, Horner’s method. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Dive hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Geometry. This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections; their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of
the second degree containing two variables; different
systems of co-ordinates; transformation of co-ordinates;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane and surfaces
of revolution; transformation of co-ordinates; quadric
surfaces and supplementary propositions. Text-book,
Bailey and Woods.
pive hours a week for one term.]
III.
Calculus, Differential. This course as also Courses
IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements of
Engineering students. It includes a study of the methods
for the differentaition of algebraic,- logarithmic and
exponential, trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric
functions, successive differentiation, and differential
coefficients; treatment of implicit and compound
functions; expansion of functions; indeterminate forms;
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	l6l
s
partial differential coefficients of the first order and of
higher orders; direction of curvature; radius of curva-
ture; envelopes; maxima and minima of functions of
one independent variable, and of several independent
variables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane
areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book,
Osborn.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Caecueus, InTEgrae. Integration of elementary form
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalization
and by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals;
definite integrals, limits of integration; double integra-
tion applied to plane areas; rectification of plane curves;
quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revolution;
surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equation of
curve. This course is supplemented by numerous
exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborn.
[Five hours a week for twelve weeks.]
Differentiae Equations. An elementary course
for Bngineering students, supplementary to the course
of integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and degree: equations of the first order, but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equa-
tions with higher orders. Numerous applications to
mechanics and physics are introduced dining the
course. Text-book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
Advanced Work. The prescribed courses in pure
mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following
advanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
v
162
BULLETIN OF THE
The text-books are not necessarily the same every
year. The number of students required to constitute
a class in any one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal,
(&) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock.
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory
of Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Advanced
Calculus, Beyerly, Todhunter, Williamson, (f) Advanced
Analytic Geometry, Salmon, (g) Analytic Geometry of
Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (h) Quater-
nions, Hardy with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, and prime movers, the injector, condenser,
refrigerating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied
in detail. During the second term a study of the
difficult types of internal combustion engines is made
together with a general study of costs in operating
power plants. Frequent reference is made to trade
catalogues, of which an abundant supply should be
obtained by the student. Text-book, The Steam Engine,
Holmes.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Materials of Engineering. This course, supple-
mented by shop work and laboratory work in testing
materials of construction, is designed for the purpose
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	163
of acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact. The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up, and estimates of the
cost of construction at market prices complete the work.
Text-book, Thurston’s Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
in.
Steam BnginE Design. In this course the forms and
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines
for specific work are taken up, giving the student a
thorough knowledge of construction detail. The latest
researches and . contemporary practice may be con-
sulted in the numerous publications found in the Uni-
versity Library. During the first term of the Senior
year is required the complete design with working draw-
ings of a simple non-condensing steam engine for
specific purpose. The second term is given to designing
a multiple expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for
marine service. The text-book used is Whitham’s
Steam Engine Design.
[Dive hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam Boilers. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of
parts from consideration of strains, thickness of shells,
size of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods
of connection of boilers, with efficiency 6f furnaces
and life of boiler, are some of the subjects considered.
The method of determining the efficiency of fuels,
heating surfaces, heights of chimneys, boiler setting
164	bueeetin or the
and materials used in connection are also discussed.
Text-book, Steam Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry
of machinery, the determination of the paths of the
various parts of an elementary combination and the
constraining of the parts to move in these paths. The
general theory is then applied to cams and gear teeth,
the relative motion of machine parts and kinematic
trains, belts, pulleys, speed cones, link work and other
aggregate combinations. Barr's Kinematics of Ma-
chinery is the text-book used.
[Three hours’ recitation and two hours’ drawing a
week for one term.]
VI.
Machine Design. This work involves a study of
the form and strength of machine parts as applied
in designing, with computation of dimensions for
fastenings, bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth
gearing, etc. The derivation of rational formulae
and the determination of empirical formulae are in-
cluded and applied in designing. The text-books used
are Unwin's Elements of Machine Design, Low's Hand-
book for Mechanical Engineers and Reed's Machine
Design and Drawing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.	■
VaevE Gears. This includes a complete study of
the Bilgram diagram as applied to side valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy
are treated in the same way, and in conclusion the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	165
student is made familiar with, the various types of
Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics and link motions. The
text-book is Halsey's Value Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Mechanicae Taboratory. The work taken up
includes a study of the methods of testing the steam
engine under varying running conditions, valve setting,
calibration of thermometers, gauges and indicator
springs, use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dyna-
mometers, Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc.
Text-book, Carpenter's Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Steam Engines and BoieErs. A brief course in
the study of boilers and steam engines designed to
familiarize the student with the different types in use
and their respective merits. Only that theory is taken
up which is necessary to the working out of problems,
the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this work must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission, Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extend-
ing over two terms, is given to a general description
study of all the types of gas engines and explosive
motors. The general construction of gas, oil vapor
engines is studied together with their adaptation to
various uses.	n
Results due to change in ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid; methods of speed regu-
i66
bulletin of the
lation and government and the details of auxiliaries
as, pumps, carburettors, hot tubes, batteries, spark
coils and dynamos are dwelt upon. The text-book
used is Gas, Oil and Vapor Engines by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XL
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the
thermodynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-
book, lectures and drawing board. The major sub-
jects taken up are power, efficiency, economy, forces
due to gas pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine
parts. Lucke’s Gas Engine Design is the text-book
used.
[Five hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing a week
for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete work-
ing up from the rough castings and forgings of a small
type of gas engine. This is part of the thesis work
for students in the Short Program and requires the
complete machining and assembling of the engine
and must be preceded by Courses X. and XI.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Laboratory. Indicator practice, eom-
merical efficiency, governing, economy, speed regu-
lation. Experiments in ignition, spark coil con-
struction, carburrettors and vaporizers. Test of engine
constructed by the student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
' UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	167
SHOPWORK
XIV.
(a)	Woodwork. Exercises in planing, splicing,
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
(b)	Application op Carpentry to pattern mak-
ing, cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
(c)	Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
(d)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping,
tool making, tempering and case hardening.
(e)	Benchwork in iron, including surface chip-
ping, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
(/) Accurate Work on the lathe, planer, shaft-
ing and milling machines. Construction of machine
tools, reamers, taps, twist drills, gear wheels and com-
plete machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Thesis. Bach candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Engineering must present for graduation a thesis
of considerable magnitude which will exhibit his
knowledge of the courses he has followed. It may
embrace designing, experimental investigation or original
research, in a subject selected by the student and ap-
proved by the professor. The major part of the second
term, Senior year, is devoted to this work, and grad-
uation is conditional upon the knowledge of mechanical
engineering displayed in its preparation.
METALLURGY
I.
Metallugry. Among the subjects studied in this
course are the following—classification of ores, sampling,
168	BULLETIN of THE
crushing, milling practice, roasting and smelting;
the various extraction processes of the following metals—
gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, are given special
attention; the production of pig iron in blast furnaces.
A trip of inspection is made to smelting plants,
blast furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order
to familiarize the student with metallurgic plants
in operation.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.	•
Assaying. This course consists of a series of actual
determinations of the quantity and value of gold, silver
and lead in the various ores by the crucible and scorifica-
tion methods of the fire assay; the assaying of gold
and silver bullion; determining the strength of cyanide
working solutions; the assay of gold bearing cyanide
solutions; and wet determinations of copper and zinc.
flight hours a week for one term.]
III.	'
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Turnace assay-
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Ore Dressing. A course in which a detailed study
is pursued of the various processes of mechanically
separating and saving valuable minerals from the
valueless gangue of ores, whereby the valuable minerals
are concentrated into smaller bulk and weight by
discarding a large portion of the waste.
The principal subjects treated are: Preliminary and
final crushing by means of rock-breakers, steam and
gravity stamps with amalgamation; rolls, Chilian,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
169
Huntington; tube and ball mills; screen sizing and
classifying; sand and slime concentrating on jigs, tables
and vanners; magnetic separation, pneumatic con-
centration, oil flotation processes; locating ’ and con-
structing the mill. The course includes a trip of in-
spection to a number of the most modern concentrating
mills in the lake Superior district where the student
engages in practical work in the study of mill construc-
tion, operation and efficiency. Text-book, Richards.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
MINING ENGINEERING
I.
’ Mining Engineering, Principles of. This course
includes a general study of Mining operations divided
into the following subjects: Occurrence of minerals in
the earth’s crust, discovery, boring, excavation, sup-
porting excavations, exploitation, haulage, hoisting,
drainage, ventilation, lighting, access, ore dressing'
and treatment. Text-book, Foster and Brough.
MICROSCOPY
I.
- Microscopy. Lectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion of light and illumination. The index
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of
lenses. Spherical and chromatic aberration. The
selection and care of a good microscope. The use of
accessories for advanced work; immersion and adjust-
able objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser,
polarizer, micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-
micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
170	BULLETIN OB THE
II.
Micro-Chemistry. Laboratory work. The prepara-
tion of micro-chemical reagents and their application
in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and
mounting tissues and organs.
[Me laboratory hour a week for one term.]
/	MUSIC
/	FIRST YEAR
/ L
Violin. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Eiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte. 'Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano. School
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Hayden, Reinecke and
Mozart. Jugend Album and Kinder scenen by Schumann.
III.
Voice Production. Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breathing-control. Articulation. Text-book, Shake-
speare’s Art of Singing, Part I.; Kofler’s Art of Breathing;
Studies by Bassini, English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Elementary theory of Music.
Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
/ IV’
/ Organ. Rink Organ School. Eugene Thayer Studies,.
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR
la.
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas,,
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
I
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
171
Ila.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,.
Lecouppy; Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Hayden, Beethoven, Mendelsohn,,
Schumann, Schubert.
Illa.
Voice Production. Advanced breathing exercises.
Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke of the
glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing,.
Parts II. and III. Studies from Italian operas; French
and English songs.
Vocae Sight Reading. Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IVa.
Organ. Schneider-Warren Pedal Studies. Easy so-
natas by Mendelsohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes,
fugues by Bach. Twenty studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.
Va.
Harmony. Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
izing from figured bass. Text-books, Goetshius Tone
Relations; Logier’s Harmony.
THIRD YEAR
lb.
Vioein. Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alward, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,.
Vieuxtemps, Mendelsohn, Dvorak.
lib.
Pianoforte. Gradus ad Parnassum. Clementi-Tausig,
Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and
French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Harberbier and
172
BULLETIN OF THE
Henselt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven,
Weber, Mendelsohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
Illb.
Voice Production. Study of trill, mordent, grup-
petto, etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb.
Organ. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome,
Whistling, Best, Rheinberger.	.
Harmony. Counterpoint. Simple two and four part
counterpart; double and florid counterpart. Canon,
fugue.
FOURTH YEAR
Ic.
Violin. Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Burch, Joachim and others.
He.
Pianoforte. Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos and 'concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
Ilic.
Organ. The greater preludes, fantasies and fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Builment and Saint-Saens.
IVc.
Harmony. Composition. Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical applica-
tion in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on the viola, flute, piccolo,
cornet, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTER DAME
173
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of
playing in the University Orchestra and the University
Band.
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of musical students open
only to those taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir
and the Glee Club are selected from the members of
this class.
PHARMACY
I.
Elements oe Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various pharmaceutical processes.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy—A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the
manufacture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. IP preparations.
[Live hours a week for twenty-six weeks.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy—Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
. General Pharmacy—A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
174
bulletin of the
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
'each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Magistral Pharmacy — Includes the manifold
•methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with considera-
tion of incompatibility, posology, and the principles of
elegant pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
(a)	Pharmaceutical Chemistry—Chiefly assaying,
testing and manufacturing. Determination of melting
and boiling points, and solubilities. Some attention is
given also, to toilet and commercial preparations with a
view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Pharmaceutical Pharmacy—Assaying and
manufacturing.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
VII.
General Pharmacy—Pharmaceutical analysis and
.assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectro-
scopic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of
manufacture.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Materia Medica—This work embraces a detailed
■consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, thera-
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is
given also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin.
They are studied individually at first then in classes
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	175
or groups. The grouping is so arranged as to make the
subject comparatively easy for the student.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic—This work includes
a study of weights and measures, percentage, relation-
ship of systems, reducihg and enlarging formulas, alliga-
tion and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Pharmacognosy—The identification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with
special reference to quality and detection of adultera-
tion. Attention is also given to the methods of prevent-
ing loss by improper storage or by the ravages of insects.
Important drugs are studied under the microscope in
cross section and in powder form.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Commercial Pharmacy—A brief course in business
methods, store-management, banking, accounting, and
everything connected with the commercial side of
pharmacy. Likewise a number of lectures on Phar-
maceutical Jurisprudence.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
PHILOSOPHY
I.
(a)	Physiological Psychology. This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis
of consciousness.
(b)	Experimental and Descriptive Psychology.
176
BULLETIN OF THE
The primary laws of consciousness; psycho-physical
methods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b and c are consecutive. Lectures
three hours a week for two terms.]
(d)	Laboratory RxercisES. Bxperiments will be
conducted with special reference to their value as aids
to introspection. Sanford’s Manual of Experimental
Psychology, Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Vol. I.,
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	BlEments of Bpistbmology. A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teach-
ings of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkley, Hume,
Kant and Spencer.
(This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and
General Metaphysics and will be given at the beginning of
the year.)
(b)	Logic. Hyslop’s Elements of Logic.
pour hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
(c)	Bthics. The theory of morals, with special
reference to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
III.
(a)	General Metaphysics. Transcendental con-
cepts: their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.]
c
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	177
(c)	Theodicy. The existence of God; His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(d)	Outlines or the History oe Philosophy.
Turner’s History, of Philosophy.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
(e)	Student Discussions. Prom time to time
throughout the year students will be required to read
and discuss papers on various subjects in the field of
philosophic inquiry.
There is likewise a regular course in Scholastic Philos-
ophy given in Latin. Students are free to elect the
course in pnglish or Latin.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work in
the department of philosophy, leading to the degree
of Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students
who have pursued the courses described above. Can-
didates who have made undergraduate studies else-
where must give evidence of ability to begin specializing
at once. In the first and second years, research work
will be conducted in the seminar and the psychological
laboratory. In the last year, students will have the
benefit of frequent consultation with the professors.
PHYSICS
I.
(a)	Physics. Instruction in Physics .is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and
magnetism are presented. The course is intended to
meet the needs of those who desire a general knowledge
of the subject, as well as to lay the foundations for
178
BULLETIN OB THE
advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two.terms.]
(b)	The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given
in Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to
physical phenomena. Special attention is paid to
accuracy in the mathematical work and- in the state-
ments of the principles involved. Lectures and recita-
tions. Text-book, Crewe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physics. The application of mathematics in physical
work. Measurements of length, mass and time. Work
in niechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and mag-
netism. The work is done in the laboratory and the
student is taught to depend on his own resources and
to check his results. .
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Special advanced work in
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	179
heat, light, mechanics, sound, electricity and magnetism.
Accuracy in observations and in the calculation and
recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they
are following. This course must be preceded by Courses
II. and III.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
BeEctricae Measurements. Laboratory practice
with galvanometers, voltmeters, ammeters and watt-
meters, resistance work, the relation or equivalence
between electric energy and heat, capacity and induc-
tance, insulation tests.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.	•
CaeorimETry. Accurate work in laboratory, using
methods of mixtures, bomb and other calorimeters in
measuring the calorific value of gaseous and solid fuels,
quantitative measurements of radiation and conduction
of heat as applied to pipe coverings, etc.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
Research Work. As elected by student in mechanics,
sound, heat, light, electricity and magnetism, or
radioactivities.
[Two to five hours a week for one term.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a)	This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton’s Text-book of
Human Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstra-
tions required.
i8o
BUIXHTIN or THB
(6)	Laboratory work consisting of a selected, number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c)	A limited number of microscopical preparations
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.
(d)	During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Four recitations and one laboratory period
for twenty-two weeks.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (d) and may select either (6) or (c).
.	II.
(a)	This course comprises a complete study of human
physiology such as is required of students of medicine.
The lectures, recitations and demonstrations are based
upon Kirk's Handbook of Physiology and Hall's Text-
book of Physiology. The student will have free access
to a copy of the The American Text-book of Physiology
for special reference.
(b)	Laboratory work in experimental physiology.
The manual used is Hall's Experimental Physiology
but the student will have free access to a number of
other similar works,
[Four recitation hours and two laboratory periods
for two terms.] '
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	l8l
D
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
The Elements oe Economics. A general survey of
the subject based upon the study and discussion of
Seager’s Introduction to Economics. The first part of
this course deals with the fundamental principles of
the abstract theory of economics. The second portion
of the work has to do with the application and exem-
plification of these principles. In this connection atten-
tion is paid to the subject of money, credit and banking,
the labor movement, monopolies, the railroad problem,
socialism, taxation, and plans of economic reform.
Supplementary readings and reports on current dis-
cussions of these questions form an important part
of the work in this course.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
II.
Industrial History and the History oe Economic
Thought. The, work in this course is based on Ingram’s
History of Political Economy, with Ely’s Evolution of
Industrial Society as a supplementary text. After a
resume of the economic ideas of ancient Greece and
Rome and of the medieval period the work is divided
into three sections; the first dealing with the frag-
mentary notions preceding Adam Smith and including
the lattter’s work and influence; the second period
deals with the classical school of economists, particular
attention being paid to the theories of Malthus, Mill
and Ricardo—the dependence of some of the modern
movements on their theories is also shown; the third
has to do with the latter day economists and affords a
proper preparation for Course Ilin. Political Science
I. is a prerequisite for Course II.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
z82	BULLETIN OB THE
III.	-
(a) Distribution. Lectures, readings and discus-
sions on the questions of wages, rent, interest and
profits, and the problems resulting from present notions
in regard to these matters. The text used is The Dis-
tribution of Wealth by Carver, supplemented by readings.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
(&) Money, Credit and Banking. This course first
outlines the historical aspect of money and of banking
and then takes up the problems touching on these
subjects. Special attention is paid to the monetary
experiences of the United States and the present reforms
under consideration. The text-book used is Money
■and Banking, by White.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Public Finance. This course begins with a brief
history of the different financial systems. The different
kinds of government expenditure are discussed, also
the sources of government income. The different
methods of taxation and the proposed reforms in these
methods are studied. Special attention is paid to
problems in the United States. The text-book used is
Introduction to Public Finance, by C. C. Plehn. j
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLITICS
The Elements or Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics, Lilly.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
s
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	18 $
VI.
American Government and Politics. Text, Actual
Government, Hart.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Jurisprudence. A course covering (a) the outlines
of the Science of Law. (Z>) The elements of International
Law. (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman and
Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and examinations on
required texts.
SOCIOLOGY
VIII.
The Elements of Sociology. Text, Elements of
Sociology, Giddings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Graduate Work in Political Economy. Advanced
courses in economics, politics and sociology are provided
for graduate students who wish to receive the degree
of Master or Doctor.
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Polish, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal,
special attention will be paid to philology.
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the
inflection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
184	BULLETIN OB THB
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Reading of three of the following
works: La Tache du Petit Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheur euse, Guerber;
Sans Famille, Malot; Readings from French History,
Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of
idions, memorizing/ Dictations and conversations on
practical topics, and careful reading of five of the
tollowing works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman Lun Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
Choisies, La Fontane; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubilees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’Argent, Dumas; Standard
French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III?
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of French literature; besides a translation and
*criticism of the best writers, such as; Causeries du
Lundi, Ste. Beu/ve; On Rend V Argent, Coppee; Her-
■nani, Hugo; Meditatons, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine;
L’Aware, Moliere; Mlle, de la Seigfiere, Sandeau;
Les Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Ex-
pedition de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth
de Hongrie, Montalembert; Historic de la Litter attwe
Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	185
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero,
Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego,
and Irate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries, with composition and the history
■of the literature of the period.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries;
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de "Vega. History of the
literature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Barly Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the fifteenth century.
.	ITALIAN
A two years’ course. The chief work of the courses
is a critical study of Dante's Divina Commedia. Read-
ing from Tasso, Arista’s Satires and Manzoni.
♦ [Two hours a week for two terms.] ‘
i86
BULLETIN OB THE
POLISH
I.
Polish Language and Literature. Grammar
(Matecki’s Part I.) Eytmology. Exercises in spelling
and reading.
Grammar, Part II. Syntax. Exercises in Com-
position. Short essays.
II.
. Rhetoric. (Galle’s Text-booty. Study of Essays
in Models (Krasnowilski’s Handbooty.
III.
Literature. The History of Polish Literature.
Part I. From the beginning to the era of Adam
Mickiewicz. (Handbook: Tarnowski-Procknicki').
IV.
Literature. The History of Polish Literature.
Part II. From Adam Mickiewicz to the present time.
(Handbook: Tarnowski-Prochnicki). Essays.
PORTUGUESE
I.
Portuguese Conner astion Grammar, Wall. Readings:
Perfil do marquez de Pornbal, Camillo Castello Branco;
Nonelhas Historicas, Pinheiro Chagas; Lendas e Nar-
ratinas, Herculano; Campo de flores, foao de Deus.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Sermoes, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Camoes.
History of Portuguese literature.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
187
OLD FRENCH
Special attention will be paid to the laws under-
lying the formation of the French language from the
popular Latin. For this purpose a work like Bracket’s
Grammaire Historique will be studied. It is under
this point of view that the Old French authors will
be read, especially La Chanson de Loland.
Language and literature, with reading from the
works of the Troubadours.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
ZOOLOGY
I.
This course comprises:
(a)	Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Nicholson’s Text-book of Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker’s Elementary Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined
in Pratt’s Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker’s Biology.
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order
of mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch’s Ele-
mentary Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for
first term; three recitation hours and three
laboratory periods for second term.]
188
BULLETIN op the
II.
This course comprises:
(a) Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based
upon Hertwig's Manual of Zoology.
(5) Laboratory work upon some Invertebrata in
order to complete and supplement the work under
(c) in Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one of two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrata, viz.: fish,
frog, newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used
is Pratt's Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with refer-
ence to the cat as outlined in Davison's Mammalian
A natomy.
(e)	An outline of comparative Kmbryology of ani-
mals. Text-book, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
* 190
BULLETIN OB THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Elocution.
Rev. PATRICK CARROLL, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Science.
Rev. PATRICK J. DALTON, C. S. C.,
Latin.
REV. WALTER J. LAVIN, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
REV. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
REV. JOHN EARLEY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
Rev. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C,
French.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	I91
. /
Rev. CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, C. S. C.,
English.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography, Typewriting.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
JAMES HINES, Ph. B.,
Mathematics.
FRANCIS A. DERRICK, A. B.,
Greek and Latin.
JOSE A. CAPARO, M. C. E., E. E-,
Mathematics.
JESSE E. VERA, M. E.,
Mathematics.
JOHN F O’HARA, Ph. B.
Spanish.
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S.,
Drawing and Science.
WILLIAM E. BARRELL, A. B.,
English and History.
JOSEPH M. CALLAHAN, A. M., LL. B.,
History and Commercial Law.
192
BULLETIN OF THB
EMILE V. MOLLS, A. B.,
Latin and French.
FREDERICK INGERSOLL,
Violin.
CARL SAUTER,
Piano.
JOHN KLIMEK,
Polish.
JOHN C. TULLY,
Mathematics.
EDWARD P. CLEARY, Litt. B.,
English.
THOMAS ALOYSIUS HEALY,
Grammar and Arithmetic.
MALES J. SINNOTT, Pli. B.,
German.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of GymnasLvm.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
193
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Pre-
paratory School under the same general government
as the .Colleges, but having its own special corps of
instructors. The schedules of studies are arranged to
meet the need of thorough preparation for collegiate
work, and embrace courses which, while giving as wide
an education as can be- obtained in the very best High
Schools, prepare students directly for the group of
studies they may elect when entering the Pres liman
year. Pour different programs of instruction are offered
to students, each containing such special courses as
directly meet the needs of the eighteen college groups,
while all embrace common subjects which are indis-
pensably necessary in acquiring a fairly liberal education.
The period of instruction covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Pre-
paratory School are most complete. The laboratories
are extensive and fully supplied with the latest im-
proved appliances. The classes pursuing any subject
are divided into sections, each containing a limited
number of students. The sections are purposely limited
in order that each student may receive close attention
from the instructor in every recitation and laboratory
period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening
of the School in September and embrace the subjects
completed in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pages 35, 36 and 37. The following fees are
special to the Preparatory School:
f	LABORATORY FEES
Science C.—Elementary Botany..................$	2.50
Science D.—Elementary	Zoology................. 2.50
Science E.—Elementary	Chemistry............... 5.00
Science F.—Elementary	Physics................. 5.00
194
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE DEPART-
MENT OF CLASSICS IN THE COLLEGE
OF ARTS AND LETTERS
first year
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
Latin	5	A.'	Latiif*	5	A
English	5	A	English-	5	A
History	5	A	History—	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics -	5	B
Science	5	B	Science-	5	
SECOND YEAR
/"LatinX	5	B	LatinX	5	B
^Greek	5	A	Greeks	5	A
^English	5	B	^English	5	B
^History	5	B .	. History	5	B
••^Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	• C	Latin	5	C
k Greek	5	B	Greek	5	B
^English	5	C	EnglishX	5	C
\EEistory	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
195
Studies Preparatory for the Department of Letters and
the Department of History and Economics in
the College of Arts and Letters
first ybar
SUBJECTS:	Hrs.	Course	SUBJECTS:	Hrs.	Course
Birst Term	a Wk.		Second Term	a Wk.	
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
/^English	5	A	English	5	A
^History	5	A	History	5	A
4- Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
p Science'	5	B	Science L	5	D
SECOND YEAR
i/Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
^French or	5		French or		
German	5	A ■	German	5	A *
IS English	5	B	• English	5	B '
^History	5	B	History 7—’	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil GovernnT t'	5	A
THIRD YBAR
Latin French or	5	C	Latin French or	5	C
German	5	B	German	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
French or		*	French or		
German	4	c	German	4	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science	,	5	F
196
BULLETIN or THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGE OF
SCIENCE
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
Science ’	5	A	Science	5	D
History	5	A	History	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
History	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
Latin ’	5	B	Latin	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
FOURTH YEAR
English '	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
Mathematics	5	X	Drawing	4	B
Drawing	4	A			
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	197
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGES OF
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Couij^^^
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	A	History	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
^German	5	■ A	German "	5	A
		SECOND YEAR			
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governin’ t	5	A
History	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German	5	B	German	5	B
		THIRD	YEAR		
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
History	5	C	Science	5	E
Science . •	5	E	German '	5	C
German	5	C			
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
Drawing	4	A	Drawing	4	B
Science	5	F	Science 1	5	F
* French or Spanish may be substituted for German.
398
BULWTIN or THE
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
A.
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended
to give the student some knowledge of the general
principles of government and of the American Con-
stitution. The subject begins by defining government;
then is considered the object and necessity of govern-
ment; origin of civil society; the principle of suffrage;
different forms of government defined and compared;
theories of representation. These topics necessarily
are treated briefly, as the principal part of the course
consists of a study of the Colonial government, the
Articles of Confederation and their defects, the for-
mation of the Constitution and its adoption. The
study further comprises a critical analysis of each
article and section of the American constitution, thus
•enabling the student to acquire a clear conception
of the division of powers of the National Government
and the duties and responsibilities of each department.
Text-book, Government 'by State and Nation, by James
-and Sanford.
[Rive hours a week for one term.]
’ DRAWING
A.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and
the eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects of
various forms.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	199
B.
Courses in Lettering and Geometrical Drawing in
pencil and in pen and ink, preparatory to Drawing
I. in the Engineering Programs. A sufficient number
of plates must be made by each student to prove his
fitness for Drawing I.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH
. A.
(a) Review of Grammar. General Rhetoric. Daily
exercises in Good English, and weekly exercises in
prose composition.
(5) Elements of Versification. Verse-writing and
memory ’work in Poetry.
(c) Readings: Irving’s Sketch Book; Stevenson’s
Treasure Island] Longfellow’s Evangeline; Cooper’s
Last of the Mohicans; Poe’s Tales; Hawthorne’s Great
Stone Face, The Birthmark and other stories; Palgrave’s
Golden Treasury; Hale’s The Man Without a Country;
Aesop’s Fdbles; the Merchant of Venice, fulius Caesar.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
B.	.
{a) Special Rhetoric. American Literature: ex-
ercises in Correct English and theme work in the Prose
Eorms.
(5) The Verse Eorms. Theory, practice and memory
work.
(c) Readings: Blackmore’s Lorna Doone] Poe’s
Poems; Lamb’s Essays of Elia; Scott’s Ivanhoe, The
Lady of the Lake; Coleridge’s The Ancient Mariner;
George Eliot’s Silas Marner; Longfellow’s The Court-
ship of Miles Standish; Macbeth, As You Like It.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
'200
BUIXHTIN OB THB
C.
(a) History of English Literature. Written work
in prose and verse.	*
(5) Memory work in poetry and prose.
(c) Readings: Tennyson’s Gareth and Lynette, Lan-
celot and Elazne, The Passing of Arthur; Washing-
ton’s Farewell Address; Webster’s First Bunker Hill
Oration; Carlyle’s Essay on Burns; Chaucer’s Prologue;
Bacon’s Essays; Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield;
Thackeray’s Henry Esmond; King Lear, A Midsummer
Night's Dream.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
(a)	Review of Grammar and Rhetoric. Special
work in the literary types. Written work in prose
■and verse.
(b)	Memory work in poetry and prose.
(c)	Readings: Selections illustrative of the text-
work given. Hamlet, The Tempest.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
FRENCH
0
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the in-
flection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and the common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of Frehch syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Efazer and Squair’s Grammar.
Reading three of the following: La Tache du Petit
Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La
Main Malheureuse, Guerber; Sans Famille, Malot;
.Super’s Readings from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
. UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	201
...
B.	'
Advanced grammar and composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Frazer and Squair’s Grammar.
Dictations and conversations are added on practical
topics and careful translation made of five of the fol-
lowing works: Le Voyage de M. P'errichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
choisies, La Fontaine; La Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’ Argent, Dumas; Stan-
dard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Dive hours a week for two terms.]
C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of Drench literature. Besides a reading and
■criticism of the best writers, such as: Causeries du
Lundi, Ste, Beuue; On Rend V Argent, Coppee; Harnani,
Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine; L’Avare
Moliere; Mlle, de laSSegliere, Sandeau; Les Origines
d,e la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedition de
Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie,
Montalembert; Historic de la Litterature Francaise,
Duval.
[Dour hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
GREEK
A.
Dirst Greek Book. White.
Bpitome or the New Testament, Stoffel.
[Dive hours a week for two terms.]
202
BUL^TIN OF thb
B.
Grammar. Etymology. Hadley and, Allen.
Xbnkphon. Anabasis, Books I and II. Harper and
Mallace.
Second Grpfk BxbrcisL Book. Heard.
BpiTOMP OP Thb Npw Tbstambnt. continued.
Stoffel.
[Give hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar. Syntax. Hadley and Allen.
Xbnbphon. Anabasis, Books III. and IV. Harper
and Wallace.
Second GrBBK BxBrcisb Book, completed. Heard.
Bpitomb op thb Nbw Tbstambnt, completed.
Stoffel.
HomBR, Iliad, Books I.-VI. Seymour.
[Vive hours a week for two terms.]
GERMAN
Grammar, Thomas. Reading of simple prose, plays,
poems; translation of English exercises into German.
Reading of short stories and selections from more
difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Eive hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Eive hours a week for two terms.] ,
NIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	203
C.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems,
and prose writings. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
A.
Ancient History. Myers' Ancient History. The
Eastern Nations. The History of Greece and of the
Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. ' The
Establishment of the Empire, and the rise of Chris-
tianity. The Roman-German, or Transition Age.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
B.	’
Medieval History and Modern History. Text-
book, Myers. The Barbarians and their Kingdoms.
Mohammedanism and the Saracen Caliphs. The
Holy Roman Empire. The Great Schism and the
rise of the Nations of Modern Europe.. The
Renaissance. The Age of Discovery. The Protestant
Reformation. The Power of Spain and Germany.
The" Age of Louis XVI., and the rise of Russia. The
Spanish and Austrian Successions. The Empire of
England. The American Revolution. The French Rev-
olution and the Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions
and Spirit of Nationality. The formation of Germany
and Italy.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
204
BUELETIN OB THE
American History. A brief outline of the more
important periods dealing with the beginning, growth
and final formatiom of the republic; the principal
causes leading to this formation; essential topics
in the history of the country.
. [Five hours a week for one term.]
LATIN
A.
First Year Latin, Collar and Daniel.
Selections from the Viri Romae. Rolfe.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Etymology, Bennett.
Caesar. Gallic War, Books I.—IV. Greenough.
Nepos. Selected Lives. Roberts. [Elective.]
Latin Composition (Part I.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett.
Cicero. Orations against Catiline. Kelsey.
Ovid. Selections. Kelsey.
Saeeust. Cataline, Nall. [Elective.]
Latin Composition (Part II.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar. Review. Bennett.
Cicero. Selected Orations and Letters, Kelsey.
Vergie. Aeneid, Books I.-VI., Frieze.
Latin Composition (Part III.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
205
MATHEMATICS
A.
AegEbra. This course for beginners in Albegra
includes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
dwelt upon in particular are factoring, highest common
factor and least common multiple, which are afterward
applied in their relation to Fractions and the reduction
of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible, concrete
examples of their applications to. kindred scientific
subjects are applied by the teacher. Text-book,
Wentworth’s School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
AegEbra. In this course the study of equations
is begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Fractional equations, systems of simultaneous
equations, involution, • radicals and exponents com-
plete the course, which is supplemented whenever
possible with problems of practical application. Text-
book, Wentworth’s School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.	*
AegEbra. This course begins with quadratic
equations, pure and affected, followed by systems
of simultaneous quadratic equations and those forms
of radical equations of higher degree which may be
solved by quadratic methods. Ratio and proportion,
indeterminate equations, surds, imaginaries, inequal-
ities, the progressions and the binomial theorem
finish the work in this course. As in the preceding
courses, special stress is placed upon the application
of the theory to such examples as will show its ap-
206
BULLETIN OF TUB
plication to elementary scientific subjects. Text-book,
Wentworth’s College Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term. ]
Geometry. This subject is completed as far as
the end of plane geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original pro-
positions. The habit of independent thinking is cul-
tivated to some extent by the solution of special problems
of a concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation
of the process studied to practical examples. Text-
book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Geometry. The study of solid geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that
of the preceding course. Planes, solid angles, poly-
hedrons, the cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied
in detail and the solution of original exercises and
propositions of application is made a feature of the
course. Text-book. Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Trigonometry. A half year is given to this subject
which includes both plane and spherical trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of
the elementary text-books. Special attention is given
to goniometry on account of its application to calculus,
and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly
supplied. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	207
SCIENCE
Physical Geography. An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the
world about him. The various types of plant and
animal life, together with topographical and climatic
conditions will be considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Eive hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology. Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of the
bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene of
muscles. The digestive, circulatory and excretory
systems demonstrated by models and charts. The
anatomy and structure of the nervous system and
simple experiments on the same. Text-book, Martin's
Human Body.
[Live hours a week for one term.]
C.
Botany. This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower
and seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant
life and their classification is also given. Text-book,
Bastian’s Elements of Botany.
[Live hours a week for one term.]
D.
Zoology. This course includes an introduction to
the subject with studies of representative forms and *
their classification in the different groups of the animal . /
•208
BULLETIN OF THE
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
(a)	Chemistry. An introductory course of experi-
mental lectures on familiar subjects such as water, the
air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena
of chemistry. Text-book, Remsen’s Elements of
Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory course
to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises to be
performed by each student, and having as their main
object the cultivation of the student’s powers of obser-
vation and faculty of inductive reasoning. These
exercises comprise a study of the principal metallic
elements, including their preparation, properties and
more familiar compounds. The directions for‘each ex-
periment are made as brief as possible; the observation
of facts and the drawings of correct conclusions there-
from being left, so far as the nature of the experiment
will permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F. '
(a)	Physics. Introduction in elementary physics
is given by lectures and recitations in which the general
laws of mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity
and magnetism are presented. The course is intended
to meet the needs of those who desire a general knowl-
edge of the subject, as well as to lay the foundation
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
209
for advanced work. Particular attention is paid to
the correct statement of principles so that in his ad-
vanced work the student will have nothing to unlearn
or relearn. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
(6)	Laboratory Work of this nature consists of
a series of 60 experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
210
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COMMERCIAL HIGH SCHOOL.
The Commercial School is designed to fuse with the
ordinary High School or preparatory program of studies,
a special preparation for the processes of modern com-
mercial life. Accordingly, the commercial program
consists of a selection of the more important subjects
in the High School curriculum to which are added the
classes and experimental facilities found in a complete
and up-to-date commercial college.
Owing to conditions specially favorable to study,
Notre Dame claims to give the students of this school
a more complete business training than can be obtained
in any purely commercial college. The authorities
require that students taking this program shall have
completed two years of a regular High School or its
equivalent. Special arrangements, however, will be
made for young men who have no High School training,
but who may have had practical business or office
experience. Such students may follow the courses of
this program of studies but will not be considered can-
didates for degrees. A certificate stating the field
covered by their studies will, however, be presented
to them. Graduates of High Schools or equivalent
preparatory schools will ordinarily be able to complete
the work of this program in one year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
III
COMMERCIAL PROGRAM*
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	A	History	5	A
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5 ’	B
second year
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
History	5	B	History	5	B
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Bookkeeping	5	A	Bookkeeping	5	A
Phonography	5	A	Phonography	5	A
Arithmetic	5	A	Arithmetic	5	B
Typewriting	5	A	Typewriting	5	A
Penmanship	2		Penmanship	2	
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Bookkeeping	5	B	Bookkeeping	8	C
Phonography	5	B	Phonography	5	B
Com. Law	5	A	Commerce	5	A
Typewriting	3	B	Typewriting	3	A
* First and^second year or equivalent required for entrance
on commmercial work.
Students who do not take Phonography will take up
Plane Geometry the third year and Physics the fourth year.
212
BULLETIN OB THE
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
ARITHMETIC
A.	Percentage; ratio and proportion, as far as
involution and evolution.
B.	PERCENTAGE, ratio and proportion (reviewed);
involution and evolution; arithmetical and geometrical
series; higher percentage; mensuration; arithmetical
analysis.
BOOKKEEPING
A.	Preparatory instruction and definitions; in-
itiatory sets of Double Entry; retailing by Double
Entry; special practice in writing business papers
and business forms. Single Entry; changing Single
to Double Entry.
B.	Retailing; wholesaling; shipping and com-
mission; jobbing; manufacturing; installment and
state agencies; joint stock companies; banking.
C.	’ Business Practice and Office Work. In-
troducing Loose Leaf Accounting, Card Ledger Account-
ing, Loose Leaf and Sales Book, and the Voucher System
of Bookkeeping.	•
COMMERCIAL LAW
A. Text-book, Huff cut's Elements of Business Laws.
HISTORY OF COMMERCE
A. Text and assigned topics.
PENMANSHIP
PHONOGRAPHY
A.	Isaac Pitman’s Short Cburse in Phonography.
B.	Speed Class.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
213
TYPEWRITING
A.	The Van Sant System of Touch Typewriting.
B.	Speed Class. Mimeograph and Hektograph
work.
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined
above are equivalent to those of a High School. There
is also a Junior Preparatory Department in which
are taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—
the students having every opportunity for preparing
themselves as rapidly as possible for High School
work..
:2I4
BULLETIN OB LHE
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
For the care and training of boys under&he age
.of thirteen years, there has been established a^primary
•school to which the most scrupulous attention has
.always been paid by the authorities of the Univer-
sity—it is known as St. Bdward’s Hall.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all
the elementary branches of an Bnglish education
.is here imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge
of Latin, French and German and Algebra. Vocal
Music and Drawing involve no extra charge. The
pupils of this department are taught by Sisters of Holy
Cross.
DISCIPLINE
The following is the order of the day: Rising at
6:30 a. m., toliet, etc., seven, breakfast, after which
there is a short time given to exercise on the campus;
eight, study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes
.and study; a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve dinner,
followed by recreation; half-past one, classes and study;
three, recreation and luncheon; half-past four, classes
.and study; a quarter to six, toilet; six, supper and
recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it
may be seen that while the Minims devote almost
seven hours a day to study, they are never more than
two hours in succession in the classroom. The rec-
reation and exercise in the fresh air after each period
of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to
.return to their classes refreshed and ready to work.
The Minims are always under supervision during
.the hours of recreation as well as in the class-room
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	21$
and the study-hall. The presence, however, of the
prefect is far from being a restraint on the amusement-
of the boys; for while it is the duty of the prefects
to insist that their young charges shall always keep
within the limits of the strictest propriety, they at.
the same time take part in all sports, organize games,
and do everything in their power to foster the love:
for exercise. The playground is a broad level, eight-
acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings,,
ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary
gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make good use*
of them can be seen from their healthy, happy ap-
pearance, which invariably attracts the notice of visit--
ors. Connected with the playground is a brick play-
hall, one-hundred and sixty feet long and heated by
steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold-
weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and.
mend the clothing: see to all the needs and to the:
comfort and convenience of the Minims. Baths are*
taken every few days. Underclothing is changed
regularly. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly
dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the season..
SOCIETIES
There are two societies in the Minim Department.,
that of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which
has for its object to supply servers for the Chapek
services, and the Sorin Association, which has been.,
established with a view to give the pupils a start, as*
early as possible, in elocution. The society is presided
over by one of the professors, who finds it a pleasant.
duty to draw out the talent of these interesting young'
orators. Meetings are held once a week, after schooF
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well:
216
BULLETIN OB THE
as of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
■deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only
the best behaved and more advanced in studies are
admitted to membership. To encourage this young
literary society, a gold medal for elocution is annually
awarded at Commencement to the most deserving,
member.
GENERAL REMARKS
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to members
more advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had
to punishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern
by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing to the
boys’ sense of honor.
There are gold medals awarded at the end of two
full years to those whose deportment has been un-
exceptionable during that period. As this fact is made
known to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he
generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view
to receiving an Honor. The greatest care is taken to
form their young hearts to habtis of virtue, and to
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Bvery effort
is made to foster respect and affection for parents, to
whom they are expected to write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the
Minims is their complete separation from the older
students. A commodious building, known as St.
Rd ward’s Hall, affording ample accommodations for
•over one hundred pupils, is devoted to their use. It is
four stories in height, one-hundred and fifty feet long,
and forty-five feet wide, heated by steam, supplied
throughout with electric light, and provided with hot
and cold water. The ceiling in the study-hall, class-
rooms and sleeping apartments is fifteen feet high. The
UNIVERSITY OF NOTER DAME
217
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant
light and ventilation. The study-hall commands a
charming view from each end of its eleven large
windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary,
pictures, plants, etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims
derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall, their
tastes are cultured by coming into contact with objects
so refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park,
which, with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds
not a little to the beauty of St. Bdwards’ Hall, as well
as to the happiness of its pupils.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy
parents and others who frequently write for more
detailed information, will show that, while the Minims
have every advantage to aid them in acquiring a founda-
tion for future study, they have a home, where they
enjoy the same ease and freedom that they would
enjoy under the care of their mothers. For further
information regarding the School for Minims apply for
a special catalogue.
EXPENSES
[For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.]
Matriculation Fee (first year only)..-.............$	10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bedding,
etc., per school year.......................   250.00
Payable in advance as follows:
First Payment,—On Entrance in September.
Matriculation Fee................................. 10.00
Board and Tuition................................ 150.00
Deposit on Book and	Stationery Account............. 5.00
Gymnasium.......................................... 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course	Ticket.................. 1.00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second Payment,—On January 15:
Balance on Board and Tuition......................$100.00
218
bulletin of the
The charge for lessons on piano, violin, guitar or
mandolin, and the use of the instrument, is fixed at $50.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
* Bach pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits
of underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pair of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits
of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap,
and a hand mirror. This direction concerning clothing
is a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above
supplies can be procured through the Students’ Office
at the University.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
219
MILITARY
During the summer vacation of 1910 the Secretary
of War appointed a retired officer of the United States
Army, Professor of Military Science and Tactics in
the University of Notre Dame.
The military drill has for some years been compul-
sory in St. Bdward’s Hall and in Carroll Hall. In the
other department this exercise has been altogether
voluntary. It has proved popular with the older
students; and Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson each
furnished a strong company to the battalion last year.
The value of the military drill was instantly recognized
and the success that attended the work was extremely
gratifying.
While the drill is voluntary for the older students
it is desired and expected that practically all will elect
to take it up. The cost of a uniform with military
negligee shirt for warm weather is less than fifteen dollars.
Other military equipment is furnished by the United
States Government.
It is to be noted that while the military work is
optional so far as the obligation to embrace it is con-
cerned, every student who takes it up is strictly required
to report for drill at the regular hour three times a week.
It is accredited as a class, and absence from it is regarded
as absence from class, involving the usual demerits
and other penalties.
The officers of the battalion for the past year were
as follows:
Captain R. R. Stogsdaee, U. S. A., Retired,
Professor of Military Science and Tactics.
220
BULLETIN OB THE
William B. Helmkamp,
Staff Lieutenant and Adjutant.
Pedro A. De Landero,
Lieutenant and Quartermaster.
L$o J. Condon,
Sergeant and Major.
COMPANY A.
Thomas C. Hughes,
Captain.
John M. Bannon,
Birst Lieutenant.
Leo B. Garrity,
Second Lieutenant.
COMPANY B.
John P. Murphy,
Captain
Dwight H. Stoughton,
Birst Lieutenant.
Alva H. Wrape,
Second Lieutenant.
company c.
Paul A. Rothwell,
Captain.
George A. Billingsley,
Birst Lieutenant.
Harold B. BalensiEEEr,
Second Lieutenant.
COMPANY D.
Raymond B. Skelley,
Captain,
Rudolph O. Probst.
Birst Lieutenant.
William SchallErt,
Second Lieutenant.
LIST OF STUDENTS
222
BULLETIN OE THE
LIST OF STUDENTS
Matriculated. During the Scholastic Year from
September, 1910 to June, 1911.
Amondarain, Ignacio..................Argentine,	South America
Arias, Manuel Fernando....................................Cuba
Burns, Edward Clark................................Connecticut
Ansberry, Edward...................................Canal Zone
Arnfield, Fremont.....................................Illinois
Armstrong, Harry Joseph Jr............................Illinois
Adams, John Joseph....................................Illinois
Aube, James Foster....................................Illinois
Appleman, Harvey M.....................................Indiana
Anthony, B.............................................Indiana
Arnold, William Simpson..........................Massachusetts
Andrew, B...................*...................Massachuse tts
Anchondo, Manuel........................................Mexico
Arellano, Lorenzo Justiniano............................Mexico
Ayala, Antonio Lorenzo..................................Mexico
Aldrete., Antonio.......................................Mexico
Alvarez;, Domingo.......................................Mexico
Allen, Henry Harding..................................Michigan
.Arthur, Esmond Russell...............................Michigan
Anderson, Frank Albert....................................Ohio
Austin, B............................................Wisconsin
Adriansen, Joseph Willebrod..........................Wisconsin
Brizolara, Aristo...................................  Arkansas
Baldwin, Warren.......................................Arkansas
Baujan, Harry Clifford................................Illinois
Burgkart, William John................................Illinois
Burtt, Fidelis Norton.................................Illinois
Busch, George.........................................Illinois
Burtt, Millard Cyril.................................-Illinois
^Brunsmann, Sebastian Aloysius.........................Illinois
Barry, Norman Stephen.................................Illinois
Bowles, John Hense....................................Illinois
Baujan, George Otto...................................Illinois
Burke, Thomas Joseph^.................................Illinois
Blackburn, William John............................'....Illinois
Blecklenberg, Harold Hubert...........................Illinois
Broad, Mark Charles...................................Illinois
Bell, John William....................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
223
Boldt, August Herbert................................Illinois
Barsaloux, Paul Keely............................... Illinois
Burke, William Joseph................................Illinois
Blinks, Harold Tillotson..............................Indiana
Boelke, Henry William.................................Indiana
Bergman, Alfred Henry.................................Indiana
Berner, Leo Sebastian.................................Indiana
Brzezinski, Vincent E.................................Indiana
Buckley, Bernard......................................Indiana
Buckley, Leo Brancis..................................Indiana
Barbazette, Leon Brancis..............................Indiana
Boyle, Brancis Thomas.................................Indiana
Beane, George Alfred..................................Indiana
Beane, Deering........................................Indiana
Brackett, Lyman Ely...................................Indiana
Barnhart, Hugh Arthur.................................Indiana
Brentlinger, Byron William............................Indiana
Breen, Maurice John......................................Iowa
Brady, Lawrence William..................................Iowa
Blank, Ralph Raymond.....................................Iowa
Buskirk,	Randolph Joseph............................Kentucky
Becker,	Michael Stanley............................Louisiana
Brachb,	Jose......................................  .Mexico-
Brooke,	Brands Ambrose.............................Michigan:
Boucher, Bred Joseph................................Michigan:
Boos, Brank Herman..................................Michigan*
Boland, James Isadore................................Michigan
BensbUrg, William John............................  .Missouri
Brucg, Edward Miles.........‘........................Missouri
Bollin, Walter Scott................................Missouri*
Burke, John Clarence ..............................Minnesota:
Barrett, Edward Brands............................Minnesota:.
Begin, Charles Herbert.............................Minnesota*
Balens'iefer, Harold Brands..........................Montana-
Barclay, Brancis Arthur...............................Montana
Brannan, Sylvester Anthony...........................Nebraska
Bartling, George Raynord.............................Nebraska
Byrne, Paul Ryan....................................New	York
Burchill, John Richard..............................New	York
Bergfeld, Elliot William............................New	York
Birdef, Jacob Vivian............................North* Dakota
Birder, Cecil Edwin.............................North Dakota
Boyle, William...........................................Ohio
Burns, Brancis...........................................Ohio
Baader, Ernest John.....................................Ohio'
Brucker, Edward Brancis.................................Ohio*
Brentgartner, Elmer Joseph..............................Ohio*
Burkhard, Sylvester Jerome..........................-..Ohio'1
Brown,- Alfred John...................................Oregon:
Bannori, John Mackin............................Pennsylvania*
Brislin, John Jerome............................Pennsylvania*
Bennett, Donald Joseph..........................Pennsylvania:
224
BULLETIN OB THE
Benitez, Enrique Manuel.............................Porto	Rico
Brophy, James Armand..............................Rhode	Island
Billingsley, George Albert..........................Tennessee
Broussard, Clyde Eloi...................................Texas
Barry, Patrick Arthur.................................Vermont
Burns, John Thomas...................................Michigan
Burke, Warren Joseph^...............................Wisconsin
Brooks, Christopher Francis.........................Wisconsin
Cortez, Felipe Victor...........
Cortez, Scipion Felipe..........
Clement, B......................
Cotter, William Edward..........
Conrad, Harry Lester............
Cleary, Edward Patrick..........
Clippinger, Arthur Selby........
Condon, Leo James...............
Clinnin, Walter Anderw..........
Cunningham, George Thompson
Clark, Sheldon Adelbert.........
Cagney, Leroy...................
Cagney, Walter..................
Carroll, Frederick William......
Cyzio, Stanislaus Casimir.......
Coakley, William Edward.........
Cunningham, John Henry..........
Clark, Thomas Alexander..........
Casey, Gerard Henry..............
Conway, Richard Francis..........
Coyne, George Leo................
Cagney, Harry Louis...............
Case, William Denning...........
Corcoran, Eugene Franklin. . . .
Countiss, Frederick Napoleon. .
Cahill, James Francis............
Corboy, Leo Joseph...............
Cooke, Charles Francis...........
Conrop, Carl Edward..............
Clarke, George Walker............
.Costello, John William..........
A Coffeen, Walter Henry..........
Czyzewski, Stephen Anthony..
Cole, Louis Albert..............
Clifford, Twomey Michael........
Centlivre, Clarence Francis....
Creger, Gaile...................
Connole, Francis Harold.........
Colby, Colburn Joseph...........
Carrico, William Elbert.........
Carmody, Arthur Roderick........
Carmody, Michael................
Cox, Louis Charles..............
Chili, South America
.Chili, South America
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
. . . .........Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinoit
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Illniois
.Illniois
...............Illinois
..............I	Illinois
......Illinois
...............Illinois
.Illinois
.Illinois
...............Illinois
.Indiana
.Indiana
................Indiana
.Indiana
................Indiana
.Indiana
...................Iowa
...................Iowa
...................Iowa
...............Kentucky
..............Louisiana
...............Louisiana
. . . . Manitoba, Canada
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
225
Collins, Joseph James.........
Crowley, Prank Patrick........
Crowley, Chalres Francis......
Connolly, Eugene Edward. . .
Cobo, Alfredo.................
Cortazar, Julio...............
Cortazar, Enrique.............
I Chaffee, Erank Archibald. . . .
Currie, Clarence Joseph........
Culligan, Terence Michael. . . ,
Cullen, Harry Walker............
Carolan, James Slavin...........
Caesar, John Julius.............
Creamer, Patrick Daird..........
Campbell, Frank Bartley....
Canning, Francis Roche..........
Cleveland, Reynold Wolf. . .
Cooke, Arthur John..............
Curran, Cyril Joseph............
Coxey, Jacok Sechler............
Cavnnaugh, Remegius Francis
Cusick, Dwight Paul.............
Carroll, Homer Peter.-..........
Courcier, Lawrence John.........
Clay, Amos Kendall—.............
Corcoran, William Joseph. . . .
Conway, Maurice Albert..........
Campbell, Jobn Joseph...........
Corasao, Alberto................
Cunning, Patrick Henry..........
Cas6y, Willaim Christopher. .
Cartwright, Marcus..............
Caspy, James Francis-...........
Cohn oily, Louis Parkham....
Clark, Reginald Joseph..........
Cremer, Glynn Francis...........
Cremer, John Leo................
Carroll, John Francis...........
Carey, William Arhtur...........
......Massachusetts
......Massachusetts
......Massachusetts
......Massachusetts
............Mexico
............Mexico
............Mexico
..........Michigan
..........Michigan
..........Michigan
..........Michigan
..........Michigan
.........Minnesota
.........Minnesota
............Montana
.........New	Mexico
.........New	York
.........New	York
.........New.York
.Ohio
..............Ohio
..............Ohio
..............Ohio
..............Ohio
..............Ohio
........... Oregon
............Oregon
........... Oregon
Peru, South America
.Pennsylvania
.Tennessee
.Tennessee
.........Tennessee
.Tennessee
.Tennessee
.........Wisconsin
.........Wisconsin
.........Witconsin
.........Wisconsin
Dolan, Patrick Henry....................................Illinois
Doherty, Patrick Henry..................................Illinois
Daly, Hugh James........................................Illinois
Dee, Samuel Allerton....................................Illinois
DeVaux, Harley James....................................Illinois
Drechney, John Harry....................................Illinois
Downing, William Poyntelle..............................Illinois
Drennan, Joseph Jeremiah................................Illinois
Doherty, John Francis...................................Illinois
Delana, George Willaim..................................Illinois
Delana, Edward Keenan...................................Illinois
Devine, John Francis.—..................................Illniois
226
bulletin of the
Duncan, Walter James........
Dolk, Irvin Sylvester........
Doktqr, Julian Florian.......
Dixon, Maurice Edwin.........
Donahue, Joseph Nicholas..
Dinnen, John Richard.........
Dinnen, George Alphonsus.
Donahue, Joseph Nicholas..
Donahue, William Matthew
DeFries, Erich H.............
Dan,t John Proctor...........
Daily, John Francis..........
Duhphy, William Francis. . .
Del Dio, Pedro Martin........
Davila, Francis Paula.........
De Landero, Pedro Antonio
De la Cruz, Jose...............
Daly,James Stewart.............
Dederick, Robert John..........
Dohn, Bernard Charles....
Dodge, John Duval..............
Dundon, John Richard...........
Dolan, William Tho.mas. . . .
Donahue, Leo Joseph............
Dechant, Frederich Bonner.
Donovan, James Cornelius.. .
Devitt, James Ryan..........................
Durbin, Francis William. . . .
Dixon, Carmo Francis...........
Dimmick, Ralph Chester. . . .
< Daly, William Or vine........
Devers, John Aloysius..........
Diebold, Ligouri Joseph. . . .
Derrick, Clarance Joseph. . .
Devlin, James Sylvester....
Damiani, Carlos Reinaldo . .
- Duque, Carlos Alfonso........
Delno, Chester.............
Delno, George'................
t Desmond, John William...
A Desmond, James Denis. . . .
Daniels, Arthur Bruce......
Dana, Fred Chalres.........
Duffy, Robert Emmet........
Dorias, Charles Emil.......
Duffy, John Francis........
...........Illinois.
.............Indiana,
.Indiana
...........Indiana.
.............Indiana
.............Indiana.
..............Indiana.
...........Indiana.
..............Indiana.
.....•.Iowa.
.....Kentucky-
.....Kansas.
.....Massachusetts
.....Mexico^
.....Mexico-
.....Mexico
.....Mexico.
.....Michigan
, o
...........Michigan.
......Michigan
......Michigan
......Michigan
......Missouri
............New	York
..........Ohio
................Ohio
................Ohio
. . t...........Ohio
.......Ohio
....... Oregon
....... Oregon
.......Pennsylvania
........Pennsylvania
........Pennsylvania
........Pennsylvania
Peru, South Emerica
.Peru, South America
...............Texas
...............Texas
...........Wisconsin
...........Wisconsin
.............Wyoming
...........Wisconsin
...........Wisconsin
...........Wisconsin
...........Wisconsin
Espinal, Antonio	Marino.................................Cuba
Ecklund, Percy August.................................Illinois
Eligius, B.. . .’...................................  Illinois
Eugene, B.............................................Illinois
Ephrem, B..............................................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DOE
227
Edmund, B..........................................Indiana
Ehringer, Florence.................................Indiana
Edward, B........................................Michigan.
Erskine, Thomas Joseph............................Missouri
Eick, Louis 'Ferdinand................................Ohio
Enaje, Francisco Delgardo..................Philippine	Islands
Ely, John Wilf'ed...............................Pennsylvania
Enright, Jeremaih Joseph...............................Texas
Farry, Claude Joseph..................................Colorado
Foley, Thomas Francis.................................Colorado
Fahy, Charles..........................................Georgia
Fellers, Brooke.......................................Illinois
Fernow, John A........................................Illinois
Fletcher, Forest......................................Illniois
Fitzpatrick, Keene Patrick............................Illinois
Figel, Edward L.....................................  Illinois
Ffrench, Jasper Joseph................................Illinois
Flanagan, Joseph Thomas...............................Illinois
Fischer,. Robert John.................................Illinios
Foley, William Charles................................Illinois
Fritch,’Louis Michael.................................Illinois
Fritch* Emil Joseph...................................Illinois
Fecher, Martin Walter.................................Illinois
Figel,' Theodore......................................Illinois
Fumasoli, Ernest......................................Illinois
Furlong, Thomas Aloysius..............................Illinois
Farrell, Simon Thomas.................................Illinois
Funk,. Elmo Ambrose....................................Indiana
Feeney, Albert George..................................Indiana
Finbar, B..............................................Indiana
A Fanelli, Salvatore Paul...............................Kentucky
Flynii, Charles Joseph...........................Massachusetts
Fish, James Leo..................................Massachusetts
Fish, William Arthur.............................Massachusetts
Foley, Daniel Rolf....................................Michigan
Finny Russell Gregory.................................Michigan
Florence, B...........................................Michigan
Fant, Paul Douglas....................................Missouri
Flanagan, Simeon Thomas...............................New	York
Fiedler, Eugene.....................................New York
Ford, Thomas Hugh.........................................Ohio
r Fletcher, Emmett Brooks..................................Ohio
J Fazekas, Stephen Aloysius.................................Ohio
xjFinneran, Francis Xavier.................................Ohio
Focke, Elmer Joseph.......................................Ohio
Focke, Watler Eugene......................................Ohio
Fleck, Philip Lousi.......................................Ohio
Fasenmyer, Edward John............................Pennsylvania
Fenesy, James Clair...............................Pennsylvania
Frawley, Henry James..............................South	Dakota
228
BULLBTIN OB THB
Beyder, Theodore Nicholas.......................South	Dakota
Forrestal, Peter Paul..........»...................Wisconsin
Fordyce, John Martin...............................Wisconsin
Gleeson, Bdward Mark................................  Arizona
Gonzalez, Jose Mario.....................................Cuba
Gouzalez, Manuel.........................................Cuba
Gonzalez, Francisco Santiago.............................Cuba
i Gamboa, Octavio Francisco...............................Cuba
Gamboa, Nicholas August..................................Cuba
Grabarski, Joseph Stanislaus.........................Illinois
Greisbach, Otto George...............................Illinois
Gibbons,' Walter James...............................Illinois
Garrtty, Leo Francis.................................Illinois
Gooley, Howard Leo....................................Indiana
Greenr Francis Bdward.................................Indiana
Gough, Ruben S.......................................Indiana
Glynn, Thomas Davis..................................Indiana
;Gleason, Paul Anthony...............................Indiana
xMueckert, Henry George..............................Indiana
Goethals, George Henry.............................  Indiana
Glynn, Bdawrd, Jerome..........................Massachusetts
Granfield, William Joseph......................Massachusetts
Garcia, Rafael............................................Mexico
Gurza, Miguel.........................................Mexico
Gonzalez, Juan Garcia.................................Mexico
Goddeyne, Joseph Charles............................Michigan
Gallagher, Thomas Patrick...........................Michigan
Gotfredson, Robert Benjamin.........................Michigan
Gaffney, George Miltner.............................Michigan
Gorman, Leo Robert.................................Minneszta
Griesedieck, William August.............................Missouri
Gefell, Henry Philip....................................New York
Green, Allen Ransom.....................................New York
Gordon, John J oseph....................................Ohio
Geiger, Jacob Raphael...................................Ohio
Gonzalez, Charles Amador.................Peru,	South America
Goettler, Charles William.....................Pennsylvania
Garvey, Bugene Augustine......................Pennsylvania
Gushurst, Fred William.........................South	Dakota
Gira, Sylvester Anthony..........................South	Dakgta
Galvin, William Michael................................Texas
Gilbough, Fred Matthew.................................Texas
Getschow, Roy Martin...................................Texas
\	Grill, PhilipKAlbert....................................Utah
\	Golden, William Bdward............................Wisconsin
< Gannon, Thomas Bdward..............................Wisconsin
Handlin, Clair Venney.............................Arkansas
Hayes, Michael Conran..........................Connecticut
Hood, John Leo.......................................Idaho
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	229
Heun, Allen.........................................Illinois
Hanlon, George Thomas...............................Illinois
Hilgartner, Daniel Edward...........................Illinois
। Healy, Joseph Jeremiah..............................Illinois
\Hanrahan, Edward Joseph..............................Illinois
Halligan, Robert Thomas.............................Illinois
Haas, Joseph Rolland................................Illinois
Honor, Walter Joseph................................Illinois
Hagerty, Richard....................................Illinois
Hayward, Alvin Higgins..............................Illinois
Hicks, William Joseph...............................Illinois
Hoyt, William Prichardts............................Illinois
Hassett, John Joseph................................Illinois
Hassett, Erank Aloysius.............................Illinois
Hope James Leo......................................Illinois
Hughies, Arthur John................................Illinois
Herr, Jesse James...................................Illinois
Hayes, Cornelius Byron...............................Indiana
Hillman, Victor Emmanuel.............................Indiana
Hytep, Forrest Clay..................................Indiana
Hogah, James Edward..................................Indiana
Hazinski, Leo Castmirl...............................Indiana
Henneberger, Charles Bernard.........................Indiana
Honan, Raymond Lawrence..............................Indiana
Hintz, 'William Gustave..............................Indiana
Hagerty, Charles Aloysius............................Indiana
AHiss, Frank Joseph....................................Indiana
\Heisbr, Joseph Allen..................................Indiana
■^Jlolderith, George Leo*..............................Indiana
Hanley, John William.................................Indiana
Holden, George Francis...............................Indiana
Holden, John Shedd...................................Indiana
\ Horn, Tyree Rivers....................................Kansas
■^Huerkamp, Frederick John............................Kentucky
Holland, George Wilson..............................Kentucky
Huerkgmp, Joseph Martin.............................Kentucky
Hagerty, Jeremiah Josepli^.....................Massachusetts
Harrigan, John La^fitb..............................Mcihigan
Hammond, LeGrand Anderson...........................Michigan
Hebner/ Harry Joseph................................Nebraska
HickeyJ Cornelius Joseph............................New	York
Hinde, Joseph James.....................................Ohio
Hagerty, Stauley Maurice................................Ohio
Henahan, Martin Ignatius................................Ohio
Hamilton, Donald Munson.................................Ohio
Howley, Thomas Francis..................................Ohio
Hilkert’, Albert Arthur.................................Ohio
Halter, Michael Valentine...............................Ohio
Hogan, William Neil.....................................Ohio
Helmkamp, William Bernard...............................Ohio
Hug, Otto Joseph......................................  Ohio
Heyl, Martin John.............................. Pennsylvania
bulletin or the
230
Hughes, Thomas Cleveland.........................Pennsylvania
Heyl, Willaim John...............................Pennsylvania
Havican, Thomas Aloysius.........................Pennsylvania
Herron, Bernard Leornard.........................Pennsylvania
Hanon, Otto Sylvester...........................South Dakota
Henry, John William L...................................Texas
Howard, Bdward Joseph.................................Vermont
Hart, Stadden Stimson..............................Washington
Hamilton, Garland Buskirk.......................West Virginia
Hebenstreit, Anton Raymond..........................Wisconsin
Hayden, William Basil...............................Wisconsin
\ Jansen, William Fred.W................................Alabama
-^•Jakubowski, Ceslaus Joseph..........................Illinois
Johnston, Philip Fenton..............................Illinois
Johnston, Harry Gray.................................Illinois
Janowski, Bronislaus Joseph...........................Indiana
Jacomet, Arthur Henry.................................Indiana
Johnson, Bdgar John..................................Kentucky
Jones, Harry Bernard.................................Michigan
Johnston, Fabian Neele...............................Missouri
Jones, Keith Kenneth..................................Montana
Jones, Roy Henry.................................New Mexico
Jones, James Bernard.............................Pennsylvania
Jalandoni, Doroteo L........................Philippine Island
Kelly, Herbert Barrett................................Alabama
Klimek, John..........................................Austria
Krampff, Arthur Clyde................................Illinois
Koelbel, Arthur.......................................Illinois	.
' Kelly, James Joseph Jr...............................Illinois
Kelly, Bdward Joseph.................................Illinois
Koelbel, Herbert J..................................Illinois
Kevin, Lawrence Maher...............................Illinois
Kinsman, John Varna..................................Illinois
Kelly, Albert Michael................................Illinois
King, Albert Vincent................................Illinois
Kasson, Donald Milton...............................Illinois
Kastler, Louis Chandler.............................Illinois
Karash, David Harold.................................Illinois
Kelley, Pearce Clement’.............................Illinois
Kelly, James Joseph Sr..............................Illinois
Kroll, John Joseph..................................Illinois
<Kusznski, Stanislaus Stephen.g........................Illinois
Korbzynski, Joseph Stanislaus........................Illinois
Kaiser, Benedict Joseph..............................Indiana
Kowalski, Bdmund Charles.............................Indiana
Kruszewski, Leo Hilary.............................  Indiana
Kaufer, John Wiliam..................................Indiana
'Kelly, John Charles..................................Indiana
Keeffe, Richard Herbert.................................Iowa
Kelly, Luke Leo^................................Massachusetts
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	23 c
Kennedy, Donald Edward...........................Michigan*
Kroth, Frank Joseph..............................Michigan*
Kiley, Louis John....................,...........New York
Kelly r Joseph Patrick...........................New York.
Kelly, Michael Joseph............................New York
Kennedy, James Francis........................North	Dakota.
Kramer, James Gerard..................................Ohio
King, Aloysius John..................................Ohio-
Krug, Henry Carroll.......................Ontario, Canada.
Keys, Albert Heuser..............................Oklahoma.
Keys, Arthur Aloysius............................Oklahoma.
Kephart, John Patten..........................Pennsylvania
Kuhle, Henry John.............................South	Dakota.
Kehoe, Francis Leo...............................Wisconsin
Kehoe, James Patrick.............................Wisconsin
Krippene, Kenneth William.......................Wisconsin.
Lequerica, Manuel........
Lequerica, Antonio.......
Lodeski, Joseph Anselm..
Lepreap, William Neville.
£ Lisewski, Casimir Joseph.
* Lahey, Charles William. .
Larkin, Arthur Bernard..
Larkin, Harold William..
Lister. Everett Alfred. . .
Lucas, George Maurice.. .
Livingston, Lester Meyer
Lerner, Theodore Joseph.
. Lower, Harold Joseph...
■a Lahey, Thomas Aquinas.
\ Luzny, Francis Xavier...
Lensing, Henry Bernard.
Lawton, Jasper Howard..
LeBlanc, Joseph Valery.
Lucas, Morton James. . . .
Lucas, John Joseph.......
Langan, Hugh Charles.. .
Langan, Cyril Glynn......
Lerned, Morris Boytor^.. .
Loebs, Roy Jacob.........
Loebs, Earl Raymond. . .
Colombia, South America
..Colombia, South America
*

■
Lynch, George Alfred......................
Lamb, George Lawrence.....................
Lamb, Thomas Don..........................
Lang, Jerome Joseph.......................
Lang, Reinhold Anthony....................
Logue, Francis Charles................
Lange, Bernard Herman.....................
Lynch, Robert Patrick.............
Luder, Earl Ernest.......................
Laughlin, Thomas McHugh...................
Long John Eugene..........................
. . .Illinois.
. . . Illinois
. . . Illinois -
. . . Illinois
. . . Illinois
. . . Illinois
. . . Illinois-
.. Indiana
. . Indiana
. . Indiana
. .Indiana.
. . Indiana
. . Indiana
. . Indiana
. .Indiana.
Louisiana
. Missouri
.Montana
Nebraska
Nebraska
Nebraska
.New Mexico
.New Mexico
......New York
. . .North Dakota
......Ohio
. Ontario, Canada
. Ontario, Canada
. . . .Pennsylvania
. . . .Pennsylvania
......Utah*
.....Wisconsin
.....Wisconsin
......Wyoming,
1
232	BULLETIN OF THF
Matthews, Robert Lee....................................Alaska
Marion, Albert Gartland...............................Colorado
Murray, Charles Donnelly..............................Colorado
Mendez, Fernando Luis.................Colombia. South America
Marquez, Juan Bduardo.....................................Cuba
Marquez, Juan Jose........................................Cuba
Maltby, John Howson....................................Georgia
Mahoney, Thomas Francis............................’.	. . .Illinois
Massey, George Joseph.................................Illinois
Marshall, Guy Frederick...............................Illinois
Madden, Frank Denis...................................Illinois
Meersman, Peter John..................................Illinois
Mehlem, John Joseph...................................Illinois
Milroy, Robert Arthur.................................Illinois
Moritz, Henry Charles.................................Illinois
Malkowski, John Stanislaus............................Illinois
Milroy, William Joseph................................Illinois
Meyers, Henry Charles.................................Illinois
Madigan, Joseph Denis.................................Illinois
Mann, Milton Charles..................................Illinois
Meyer, Arthur.........................................Illinois
Monaghan, Francis John................................Illinois
Mee, Reward Frank.....................................Illinois
\ Mee, Thomas Simon.....................................Illinois
Milanpwski, Stanislaus Francis........................Illinois
Morse, Robert Hosmer..................................Illinois
Martel, George Wendell.^..............................Illinois
Madigan George........................................Illinois
Muldoon, John Andrew..................................Illinois
Mullaney, Robert Cyril................................Illinois
Mullaney, Thomas Francis..............................Illinois
Mills, Fred Leon......................................Illinois
Michels, John Arnold..................................Illinois
Morton, Bdward Hughes.	. . Illinois
Mulloy, Bernard Bendeict..............................Illinois
Morgan, Stephen Jayne.................................Illinois
Molle, Bmil Valerian...................................Indiana
1 Martin, Joseph Andrew..................................Indiana
''Mulcair, Michael Aloysius..............................Indiana
Moloney, Justin James..................................Indiana
Martin, Robert Ward....................................Indiana
Meuninck, Julius.......................................Indiana
Mahaffey. Fred Thomas..................................Indiana
Micinski, Boleslaus W..................................Indiana
Moon, Arthur...........................................Indiana
Motts Bdward Theodore..................................Indiana
Milliken, Clarence Glenn...............................Indiana
v Mathis, v Leo Anthony..................................Indiana
\ Mohn, Paul Ralph.......................................Indiana
Margraf, John..........................................Indiana
Moynihan, Andrew Joseph................................Indiana
MacConnell, Walton Jerome..............................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME'
233
Murdock, Charles Lillis.....
Martin, Herman Joseph.......
Matthew, B..................
Moore, Edward Joseph........
Murphy, John Patrick........
Mendoza, Jose M.............
Morales, Alfredo............
Mann, Charles Hughes........
Murphy, Charles Anthony.. .
Murphy, Edward Harold.. . .
Madden, Erank Leo...........
;Miltner, Charles Christopher.
Murphy, Kingsley Hopkins..
Murphy, Paul Darrel.........
Michaud,- Edward Achille. . .
Martin, Joseph Eugene........
Muehlebach, Henry John... .
Murray, Harry Booth...........
Mulcahy, Erank Patrick........
Marcille, Gilbert Grover......
Maroney, Joseph John..........
Myers, Carl Aloysius..........
Mahoney, Joseph John..........
Miller, Martin Harold.......
Marshall, Charles Joseph. . . .
Mang, Vincent...............
Moushey, Paul Joseph........
Murphy, Joesph Benedict. . . .
Mullin, John Henry..........
Murphy, John James..........
Miller, Leo Harry...........
Maloney, Eugene Augustine.
Mellon George A.............
Miner, Peter Joseph.........
Morrissey, William Kieran.. .
Molina, Alejandro Edwardo . .
Martin, William Charles.....
Meyer, Joseph Henry.........
Monroe, Richard James.n...
Moran, William James........
Metcalf, Albert Lorenzo.....
McGough, Edward William.. .
McGrath, James ^Miles........
McNichols, Austin Aloysius.. .
McEvoy, Joseph Patrick. . . . .
McIntosh, Wade...............
McNamara, William Michael
McMorran, William Edward. .
McCarthy, Jeremiah Anthony
McMahon, James Donald.. . .
McDonald, Avis Erancis.......
.......Indiana
.......Indiana
.......Iowa
.......Kentucky
.......Massachusetts
.......Mexico
.......Mexico
..........Michigan
..........Michigan
..........Michiagn
..........Michigan
..........Michigan
..........Minnesota
..........Minnesota
..........Minnesota
..........Missouri
..........Missouri
..........New	Mexico
..........New York
..........New York
..........New York
..........Ohio
..........Ohio
.......Ohio
.......Ohio
. . . ........Ohio
...............Ohio
...............Ohio
......Pennsylvania
......Pennsylvania
......Pennsylvania
......Pennsylvania
......Pennsylvanis
......Pennsylvania
......Pennsylvania
Peru, South America
......Washington
......West Virgin pT
......Wisconsin
......Wisconsin
......Wisconsin
.....Illinois
. . ......Illinois
..........Illinois
..........Illinois
..........Illinois
..........Illinois
..........Illinois
............Indiana
............Indiana
............Indiana
234
bulletin of the
McFall, John Robert................................Indiana
McQuire, Francis Thomas............................Indiana
McCaffery, Joseph James............................Indiana
McCaffrey, Hugh Joseph.............................Indiana
McDonald, Donald Patrick...........................Indiana
McConlogue, Raymond B.................................Iowa
McGovern, Aloysius Thomas...........................  Iowa
McGill, Robert J oseph............................Kentucky
McGarry, .William Edward.....................Massachuseets
McCormick, Rollin Daniel..........................Michigan
McGreevy, John Timothy...........................Minnesota
McCarthy, Louis Augustine........................Minnesota
McDonnell, Joseph Satrich........................Minnesota
McGinnis^ Daniel Vincent..........................Missouri
McNulty, John Francis.............................Missouri
McGlynn, Joseph Bernard...........................Missouri
McElhinriey, Francis Dowd.........................Nebraska
McConnell, Harold Andrew..........................Nebraska
McQuade, Bernard James...........................New York
McBride,'Walter Joseph..  .......................New York
McBride’, Thomas Mars...................................New	York
McBride', Louisus Aloysius..............................New	York
McGrath, Joseph Michael.................................New	York
McSweeney, John Patrick.................................New	York
McHugh, Edwin Charier.................................Ohio
McNicol,’ Cornelius Charles...........................Ohio
McCune, Robert........................................Ohio
McAllen, William Daniel.............................Oregon
McElhone; James Francis....................  .Pennsylvania
McNichol,' Daniel John........................Pennsylvania
McGladigan, Gerald Joseph.....................Pennsylvania
McBride, Francis Bernard......................Pennsylvania
McCague, John Francis.........................Pennsylvania
McGrath, Chester Martin.......................South	Dakota
McDermott, John William...............................Utah
McCafferty, James Pancratius.................  .Washington
HcHu’gh, Francis Joseph.........................Washington
McCoy, -George Nolan............................’Wisconsin
Newton, Ralph William.............................Illinois
Newgass, Mitchell Cornelius.......................Illinois
Newton,’ Joseph Fay...............................Illinois
Newfield, Arthur Abraham. ......................  Illinois
Newman, - Clarence Theodore........................Indiana
Neifer, • Dale Scutter...........................  Indiana
Nieuwland, Arhtur.................................Indiana.
Niemer, M-elchoir Stanislaus.......................Indiana
Norris, Paul Thomas...................................Iowa
Noud, Ruben Patrick...............................Michigan
Norbert, B. . ’...................................Michigan
N ester, Tho mas..................................Michigan
Nowers, Paul......................................Missouri
-	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	235
Nolan, Janies Daniel.....................................Ohio
Nolan, Michael Harvey.....................................Ohio
Norckauer, Maurice Joseph................................Ohio
Newning, Samuel DeCordova...............................Texas
Newning, Henry McCarthy.................................Texas
Niedecken, Frank Norbert............................Wisconsin
O’Shea, William Doyle................................Arkansas
O’Neill, Terrence James...........................Connecticut
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph...............................Illinois
O’Malley; John Michael...............................Illinois
O’Brien, James Francis...............................Illinois
O’Connell, John Francis..............................Illinois
O’Connell, Theodore William..........................Illinois
O’Connell, John Charles..............................Illinois
Osborne, Lee................................,........Illinois
O’Connell, John William..............................Illinois
Orr, William James...................................Illinois
Orr, Rufus Carson....................................Illinois
O’Brien,- Thomas Francis..............................Indiana
O’Brien,. John Meney..................................Indiana
O’Connor", MauricePatrick ...........................Indiana
O’Donnell, Thomas Ravmond.............................Indiana
O’Hara, Herman Benedict...............................Indiana
O’Brien, Wilmer Leo...................................Indiana
O’Neill, Ronald Sylvester.............................Indiana
O’Neil, Harry H.......................................Indiana
O’Hara, John Francis.................................Indiana
O’Brien, William Bryan Jr............................Michigan
Outhouse, David Edward..............................Michigan
O’Neil, Henry William...............................Missouri
O’Hearn, Francis' Maurice...........................Missouri
Oaas, Torgus Hans....................................Montana
O’Flynn, James Baldwin...............................Montana
O’Malley, Rowland - Vincent..........................New	York
O’Hara, James William...................................Ohio
O’Neil, Thomas Francis..................................Ohio
O’Rourke, Charles-....................................  Ohio
0’Brieri', Paul Francis.................................Ohio
Oshe, Marcellus Matthew.................................Ohio
O’Rourke, Frank Camillus................................Ohio
O’Brien, John Frank.................................Oklahoma
O’Reilly, Francis Warren..............................Oregon
O’ Rorke, Jame^ Henry...........................Pennsylvania
O’Connell, Francis Maurice......................Pennsylvania
\ O’Herron, Edward Michael........................Pennsylvania
■J O’Reilly, Patrick John.........................Pennsylvania
O’Connor, John Leland..................................Texas
O’Meara, Patrick Marquette.........................Wisconsin
Philbrook, George Warren..........................California
Potter, Clarence Leo................................Colorado
8
236
BUBTBTIN OB THB
Plant, John...........................................Illinois
Phillip, Philip John..................................Illinois
Porter, William Henry.................................Illinois
Parish, William Joseph................................Illinois
Parke, Frederick......................................Illinois
Polakow, Julius.......................................Illinois
Popham, Argyle........................................Illinois
Powers, Harry Joseph..................................Illinois
Probst, Rudolph Otto...................................Indiana
Page, Percy Harvey.....................................Indiana
Phillips, Wendell Thomas.........................Massachusetts
Portillo, Guillermo L...................................Mexico
Prieto, Salvador........................................Mexico
Pimental, Salvador......................................Mexico
Portillo, Jose Bduardo..................................Mexico
Pepin, Donat..........................................Michigan
Piper, Herman, C. R..................................Minnesota
Petersen/Fred Nisin..................................Minnesota
Peugnet, John Sarpy...................................Missouri
Peugnet, William Ironside.............................Missouri
Patterson, Guillermo........................................New	York
Powers, Frederick William...................................New	York
Peurrung, Joseph Cnarles..................................Ohio
Pflaum, Joseph Hughes.....................................Ohio
Paniagua, Reinaldo Busebio................................Porto	Rico
^Pascoe, William Harry.............................South	Dakota
Quinlan, J oseph Andrew...............................Illinois
Quigley, Thomas Daniel................................Illinois
Quinn, Willard Carlisle................................Indiana
Qualman, Paul Henry....................................Indiana
Quintanilla, Ignacio....................................Mexico
Quish, Francis Bdward.................................Michigan
\ Quinn, Bdward John...................................New York
Quinlan, Frank Michael...............................New York
Robinson, Charles John.....................................California
Rubio, Ramon Garcia..............................................Cuba
Rogers, Charles Joseph.......................................Illinois
Ryan, Thomas Anthony.........................................Illinois
Rodgers, Joseph Rolland......................................Illinois
Rockne, Kmute................................................Illinois
Rivard, George Jay...........................................Illinois
Rempe, Tester William........................................Illinois
Rempe, Harold Raymond........................................Illinois
Regap, George Joseph.........................................Illinois
Roeder t John Archie.............................................Illinois	7
Railtou, Bert Albert.........................................Illinois
Roland, Bdward Daniel........................................Illinois
Railton, John R. T...........................................Illinois
Ryan, Francis J ohn..........................................Illinois
Ryan, Nicholas Patrick.......................................Illinois
Ralf, Frank Denis............................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
237
Ridgeway, Hervey John........
Riddle, John Emerson........
Reeder, Edward Earl.........
Rokop, Andrew Michael.......
Rozewicz, Anthony Jolin.....
Reddin, William Joseph.......
Richardson, Alfred H.........
Rodriquez, Eucario...........
Rutkowski, Harry T...........: . . .
Reading, Ivan................"...
Reilly, John Eansing......
Ryan, Vincent De Paul.....
Reading, Alomn Franklin. .'. .
Reading, Harvey Judd......
Robins, James Vermont.....
Riedmann, Emil John.......
Reilly, Thomas Walter.....
Ryan, J oseph Dee........'...
Ryan, William Richard.......
Rebillot, Lawrence Joseph... .
Ros, Carlos Manuel...........
Ryan, Paul Joseph............
Rice, William Henry..........
Rizo Patron, Antenor Maximo
Rizo Patron, Enrique Amador
Rizo, Patron, Gerardo Juan. . .
Romana, Juan L...............
Ramirez, Julian Angel........
Rush, Papi...................।.
Richmond, Charles Milton.. . .
Rea, John IVentwotrh...........
Rolfs, Henry...................
Rothwell, Erwin Carl.........
Rothwell, Paul August........
Stone, John H.................
San Pedro, Alavaro Rodriquez
San Pedro, Jorge................
Stoughton, Dwight Harold....
Shannon, John Hastings..........
Supple, William Patrick.........
Semrau, John Andrew.............
Susen, Thoedore Albert..........
Stephan, Leo Joseph.............
. Somers, Michael Erancis.......
\) Stack, James Joseph..........
Sickler, Francis John ........
Schinkoeth, Leroy.............
Sullivan, John Francis........
Seery, Thomas.................
Skale, John Cedric............
Smith, Delbert Deveraux.......
..............Indiana
..............Indiana
..............Indiana
..............Indiana
..............Indiana
..................Iowa
.........Massachusetts
. . . . ,s......Mexico
.'.............Michigan
.Michigan
.Michigan
.Michigan
.Michigan
.Michigan
..New	Mexico
.New	York
.Ohio
.Ohio
.Ohio
.......  Ohio
Panan/a, Central America
..Pennsylvania
.Pennsylvania
.Peru, South America
.Peru, South America
.Peru, South America
. . . .Peru, South America
.Spain
.Tenneessee
.Texas
....Virginia
.Wisconsin
...............Wyoming
...............Wyoming
.............Alabama
.............Cuba
.............Cuba
.............Connecticut
District of Columbia
.............Kansas
.............Illinois
. . .'.......Illinois
.............Illinois
.............Illinois
.............Illinois
.............Illinois
.............Illinois
.............Illinosi
.............Illinois
.............Illinois
.............Illinois
BULLETIN OB THE
23'3
Smith, Charles Hewitt................................Illinois
S toll, DeFores’t....................................Illinois
Stoll, Robert........................................Illinois
Stettauer, Martin Stanley..........................  Illinois
‘Schwalbe, Joseph William............................Illinois
Smith, Teis Peter............'.....................  Illinois
Shaughnessy, Thomas Joseph...........................Illinois
Sax, Carrol William..................................Illinois
Steers, Fred Llewellyn...............................Illinois
Sanowski, Ralph......................................Illinois
Saunders, Fred........................................Indiana
Schumacher, Leo Albert.............•..................Indiana
Schellinger,, Arthur Anthony..........................Indiana
Szymanski, Ladislaus..................................Indiana
Schubert, Lawrence Philip.............................Indiana
Stephenson, Joseph Maxwell............................Indiana
Steis, Edmund Gerald..................................Indiana
Striebel, Floyd Henry.................................Indiana
Stueckle, Clarence Charles............................Inidana
Sinnott, Myles Hilt...................................Indiana
Sobolewski, Wenceslaus Anthony........................Indiana
Schreyer, Anderw Ignatius.............................Indiana
Szamecki, Stanislaus Peter............................Indiana
Stewart, Chester Clay.................................Indiana
Shourds, Dalton Bacon.................................Indiana
Sherlock, James Bernard..................................Iowa
Schloeman, Harold Herbert................................Iowa
Sherry, William John............................Massachusetts
Sotomayor, Luis Galino.................................Mexico
Sanchez, Alfredo Anulfo................................Mexico
Saravia, Augustin Gonzales.............................Mexico
Stansfield, John Theodore............................Michigan
Scheid, Thoedore Joseph..............................Michigan
Sturn, Leo Alfred....................................Michigan
Schallert, William.................................  Missouri
Sponsler, William Joseph.............................Missouri
Sombart, George William..............................Missouri
Shannon, Leo Justin...................................Montana
Schnitzer, Joseph Michael..........................New York
Sorg, Cladue Albert................................  New	York
Story, James Abbott..................................Oklahoma
Strong, Forrest Leo..................................Oklahoma
Story, Edward Joseph.................................Oklahoma
Shea, Thomas Fenlon..................................Oklahoma
Sexton, James Clement....................................Ohio
Smith, Joseph Francis....................................Ohio
Sanford, James Enward....................................Ohio
Savord, Edmond Henry..................................   Ohio
Sexton, Francis Holton...................................Ohio
Strassner, George Francis................................Ohio
Shepard, George Martin.................................  Ohio
Soisson, Leon Joesph.....................................Ohio
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
239
Schmidt, Carole Joseph.................................Ohio
Shenk, Robert Raymond..................................Ohio
Schmitt, Louis.........................................Ohio
Schmitt, Paul Anthony..................................Ohio
Schindler, Robert Domitio..............................Ohio
Scott, Russell Joseph................................  Ohio
Schwartz, Theodore.....................................Ohio
Shouvlin, Daniel Robert E..............................Ohio
Smith, Glenn Andrew.................................	,. Ohio
Sawkins, John Alfred...................................Ohio
Smith, Walter Aloysius.........................Pennsylvania
Skelly, Raymond Edward.........................Pennsylvania
Spillane, Arthur James.........................Pennsylvania
Spillane, John Owen............................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Ignatius Lang.........................Pennsylvania
Skelly, Daniel Joseph..........................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Robert Regis.......................  Pennsylvanian
Soisson, Basil James.......................  Pennsylvania*.
Sweeny, Thomas Charles.........................South	Dakota
Staacke, George Milton...............................Texas;
Steppier, Joseph Peter..........................Wisconsin-'
Sieber, Raymond Joseph...........................Wisconsin;
Tully, John Carl...............................................Illinois-
Theurer, J oseph George.........................................Illinois,
Traynor, James Joseph..........................................Illinois'
Townsend, Gerald Winning........................................Illinois
Taylor, Harold Epping..........................................Illinois-
Turner, Jay Marcus.............................................Illinois-
Tomczak, Ladislaus Proch........................................Illinois
Trixler, Leo Patrick.................................Indiana
Toth, Joseph Michael.................................Indiana
Tomaszeski, Stanislaus Hilary........................Indiana
Talcott, Vaughan Henry..............................Kentucky
Troxler, Creston Roch..............................Louisiana
Tims, Erank John...................................Minnesota
Truscott, Fred Louis................................Montana-
Tierney, Harry Bernard..............................Nebraska
Tipton, William Ruben............................New Mexico
Tretton, John Benedict..............................New	York
Trumbull, Selden...............................North Carolina
Twining, Simon Ercile.................................  Ohio
Theophilus, B....................................Pennsylvania
Titlow Lawrence Burns........................  Pennsylvania.
Titlow, George Flavian............................Pennsylvania!
Toranzo, Luis William......................Peru,	South America*
Taylor, Earl Cecil..................................West	Virginia-.
Ulatowski, Clement L...................................Illinois
Urias,. Arturo..........................................Mexico
Usera, Ferdinand Hector............................PotroJRico
240	bulletin of the
Van Cleve, Franklin H..............................Illinois
Vyzral, Sylvester Laurence.........................Illinois
Van Bngers, Philip.................................Illinois
Voelkers, John Joseph...............................Indiana
Voelkers, Gerard George.............................Indiana
Valles, Jose Trinidad................................Mexico
Vera, Jesse Bustaquio................................Mexico
Vassallo, Walter.........*........................Nova	Scotia
Virant, Ludwig.........................................Ohio
Vincent, B...........................................  Ohio
Volland, Gordan........................................Ohio
Viso, Joaquin Amilio.............................Porto	Rico
Viso, Geraldo Alejandro..........................Porto	Rico
Windheim, Otto William.............................Illinois
Walter, Martin Bmmett..............................Illinois
Whitty, Elmer Joseph...............................Illinois
Wright, Kenneth Eugene.............................Illinois
Wasson, James......................................Illinois
Weidner, Hubert Pancratius.........................Illinois
Welch, Thomas Rowland..............................Illinois
Welsh, Roland Battersby............................Illinois
Washburn, George Edward............................Illinois
Ward, Frederic Elric...............................Illinois
Williams, Fred....................................  Indiana
Woodford, Leon Edward...............................Indiana
Wagner, Robert John.................................Indiana
Wagner, Norbert Augustine...........................Indiana
. Weber, George Fred.................................Indiana
Ware, James Michael. ...............................Indiana
Wentland, Francis Louis.............................Indiana
Welch, John W.......................................Indiana
Wenninger, Francis Joseph...........................Indiana
Wheeler, Jefferson Karl..............................  Iowa
Winkleman, Mervin Thorp................................Iowa
Wietharn, John Bernard...............................Knasas
White, Harold George...............................Kentucky
Williams, William Joseph...........................Kentucky
Wolff, George Wiiliam................................Mexico
Wickham, Leo Joseph................................Michigan
Weeks, Bdward Joseph...............................Michigan
Wilson, William Harold.............................Michigan
Wirthman, Fred George..............................Missouri
Wagner-, John Phelps...............................Missouri
Wrape, Alba Henry................................. Missouri
White, John W......................................Missouri
Walsh, Robert Michael....................'.........New	York
Weir, Samuel Francis.....................................New	York
Ward, Walter Raymond.....................................New	York
Wright, William- Thomas..................................New	York
Walsh, Arthur Beady......................................New	York
Wilson, John Marion......................................New	York
UNIVFOSITY OF NOTRF DAM#
241
Wren, Christopher Francis................................Ohio	-
Williamson, Clarence John..............................Ohio
Walsh, James Russell...................................Ohio
Walter, B..............................................Ohio
Walsh,	Joseph Martin..........................Pennsylvania
Walsh,	Thomas Joseph..........................Pennsylvania
White,	Richard..................................Tenneessee
White,	Carl Bradford............................Tenneessee
Wall, Francis William.............................Wisconsin
Wittenberg, Jack Conrad.......................West Virginia
Wittenberg, John P. Newman....................West Virginia
Youngerman,. Frank...................................Iowa
Yturria, Herminio..................................Mexico
Yturria, Fausto....................................Mexico
Yund, Walter Victor................................Montana
Yerns, Peter Charles...............................New	York
Zubiria, Nicholas...........
Zubiria, Alfredo............
Zubiria, Ramon..............
Zonenblik, Joseph...........
Zgodzniski, Leo Stanislaus
Zahm, William Mathias. . .
Zapata, Jose Fmeterio.......
Zapata, Lino Bduardo. . . . .
Zink, William Ignatius.. . .
Zimmer, Harry Joseph........
Zweck, Alfred Christian. . .
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
..............Illinois
................Indiana
................Indiana
.................Mexico
.................Mexico
...................Ohio
...........Pennsylvania
..............Wisconsin
242
BULLETIN OB THE
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS
1910-11
Honorary President.
Rev. John T. O’Connell, LL. D., ’01,
Toledo, Ohio.
President.
Daniel Patrick Murphy, ’95,
New York City.
Vice-Presidents.
Mark Foote, ’73,
Chicago, Ill.
Michael O. Burns, ’86,
Hamilton, Ohio.
Harry Grattan Hogan, ’04,
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Samuel Michael Dolan, ’io,
Albany, Oregon.
John C. Shea, ’ii,
Dayton, Ohio.
John Carl Tully, ’ii.
Fl Paso, Ill.
Secretary.
Rev. Willaim A. Moloney, C. S. C.
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Treasurer.
I
Dezere B. Cartier, ’92,
Ludington, Michigan.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
243
Trustees ’io-’i2.
Henry A. Steis, ’85,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dr. James M. Dinnen, ’96,
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
Ceement C. Mitcheee, ’02,
Chicago, Ill.
Trustees, ’ii-’ij.
REV. A. B. O’Neiee, C. S. C., ’91
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Prof. Wieeiam Hoynes, ’91,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Byron V. KanaeEy, ’04,
Chicago, Ill.
Trustees, ex-officio.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., D. D., ’90,
President University of Notre Dame.
Daniee Patrick Murphy, ’95,
President Notre Dame Alumni Association.
LOCAL CLUBS
THE NOTRE DAME CEUB OF NEW YORK.
Rev. Luke J. Bvers, President, 20 City Hall Place.
Charles A. Gorman, Vice-President, 208 Hooper St.,
Brooklyn.
Peter P. M. McBlligott, Secretary, 112 Wall St.
Thomas Murray, Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CEUB OF PORTEAND.
Hon. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
John R Daly, Vice-President.
R J. Lonergan, Sec.-Treas., Columbia University.
244
BULLETIN OF THE
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON
Dr. Francis B. Carroll, President, 217 Huntington Ave.
Hon. William P. Higgins, Vice-President, 43 Tremont
Street.
Dr. John Fennessy, Secretary, Dorchester.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA.
James P. Fogarty, Betz Bldg.
Joseph D. Murphy, Vice-President.
Andrew J. Hanhauser, Secretary, 27 N. Fiftieth St.
John H. Neeson, Treasurer, 1701 Columbia Ave.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Bldg.
Frank P. Burke, Vice-President, 900 Pabst Bldg.
George F. Ziegler, Secretary.
Louis B. Best, Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON.
John C. Shea, President.
Peter Kuntz, Vice-President.
A. W. McFarland, Secretary-Treasurer.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE.
/
John W. Bggeman, President.
Harry G. Hogan, Vice-President.
Robert Fox, Treasurer.
Joseph M. Haley, Secretary.
THE TWIN-CITY CLUB OF ST. PAUL AND MINNEAPOLIS.
Rev. Bdmund O’Connor, President.
F. B. Murphy, Vice-President.
William D. Jamison, Secretary.
T. O’Regan, Treasurer.
R. G. O’Malley, W. O’Brien, V. B. Morrison, Bxecutive
Committee.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	245
SIXTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
CONFERRING OF DEGREES
The Degree of Doctor of Science in Course is
conferred on:
Janies Joseph Walsh of New York City.
Thesis: “The Popes and Science.”
The Degree of Doctor of Laws wss conferred:
On a distinguished jurist whose brilliance in the
pleading of causes has been equaled only by his
erudition and justice upon the bench, and whose
administration of large enterprises has been sur-
passed only by the wisdom with which he has
guided the destinies of a great sovereign State,
The Honorable Judson Harmon, Governor
of the State of Ohio.
On a distinguished son of Notre Dame whose
priestly virtue is equaled only by the modesty
which veils it from the public eye; a missionary
who has contributed to the work of the Church in
America its greatest and most original idea, the
giving of missions for those outside the fold; an
eloquent orator, a father of the spiritual life, a
great patriot and a great priest,
Walter Elliott of the Paulist Community,
New York City.
On another son of Notre Dame, the founder of a
great newspaper, an exponent of the cleanest and
most wholesome as well as the most enterprising
journalism; a defender of every good cause; a
patron of art and a leader of his people,
William Rockhill Nelson, editor of the
Kansas City Star.
246
BUimPTlN OF THIS
On an illustrious lawyer and statesman whose
wrork in the Hague Peace Tribunal has won him
the gratitude as well as the admiration of the
world; whose constructive statesmanship has re-
dounded to the glory of his country as his legal
learning has added prestige to her highest Court
of justice,
The Right Honorable Sir Charles Fitzpatrick,
Chief Justice and Deputy Governor of the
Dominion of Canada.
The Degree of Master of Science was conferred on:
Bdgar Armistead Milner, Portland, Oregon.
The degree of Master of Science in Mathematics was
conferred on:
Jose Angel Caparo y Perez, Peru, South America.
'The degree of Master of Science in Chemistry was
conferred on:
Guillermo Patterson Jr., New York City.
The degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on:
'William Arthur Carey, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
"Peter Paul Forrestal, Watertown, Wisconsin.
Joseph Charles Goddeyne, Bay City, Michigan.
Michael Conran Hayes, Waterbury, Connecticut.
John Henry Mullin, Pittston, Pennsylvania.
"James Francis McBlhone, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
v Joseph Andrew Quinlan, Chicago, Illinois.
Joseph Michael Toth, South Bend, Indiana.
The degree of Bachelor of Letters was. conferred on:
Patrick J. Carroll, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Patrick J. Dalton, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Maurice John Breen, Fort Dodge, Iowa.
Bdward Keenan Delana, Cortland, Illinois.
Joseph Nicholas Donahue, South Bend, Indiana.
James Leo Fish, Boston, Massachusetts.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
247
Thomas Aloysius^Havican, Homestead, Pennsylvania.
Albert Andrew Hilkert, Canton, Ohio.
v Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan City, Indiana.
Charles Joseph Marshall, Doylestown, Ohio.
William Bverett McGarry, Boston, Massachusetts.
Anthony John Rozewicz, South Bend, Indiana.
Wenceslaus Sobolewski, Chicago, Illinois.
” Francis Joseph Wenninger, South Bend, Indiana.
The degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on:
Arthur John Hughes, Budd, Illinois.
Henry John Kuhle, Salem, South Dakota.
Richard Herbert Keeffe, Sioux City, Iowa.
Charles Christopher Miltner, Lake City, Minnesota.
John Francis McNulty, St. Louis, Missouri.
John Francis O’Hara, Indianapolis, Indiana.
James Clement Sexton, Canton, Ohio.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
JTerred on:
James Gerard Kramer, Canton, Ohio.
Jasper Howard Lawton, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Harry Joseph Zimmer, Millvale, Pennsylvania.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry was
conferred on:	•
Bdward Jerome Glynn, Springfield, Massachusetts.
Bdmond John Quinn, Antwerp, New York.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture was
conferred on:
William Bernard Helmkamp, Delphos, Ohio.
The degree of Civil Bngineer was conferred on:
Pedro Antonio DeLandero, Guadalajara, Mexico.
Bimo Ambrose Funk, Anderson, Indiana.
Nicholas August Gamboa, Cienfuegos, Cuba.
Anton Raymond Hebenstreit, Shullsburg, Wisconsin.
Juan L. Romana, Arequipa, Peru, South America.
248
BULLETIN OB TH#
George William Wolff, Mexico City, Mexico.
George Bdward Washburn, Chicago, Illinois.
The degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on:
William Simpson Arnold, Holyhoke, Massachusetts.
Thomas Cleveland Hughes, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Robert Raymond Shenk, Delphos, Ohio.
The degree of Blectrical Engineer was conferred on:
Paul Keeley Barsaloux, Chicago, Illinois.
Rafael Garcia, Puebla, Mexico.
William John Heyl, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Herman C. R. Piper, Stillwater, Minnesota.
Rudolph Otto Probst, South Bend, Indiana.
John Carl Tully, Hl Paso, Illinois.
John Margion Wilson, New York City.
Jesse Bustaquio Vera, Queretaro, Mexico.
The degree of Chemical Engineer was conferred on:
Guillermo Patterson Jr., New York City.
The degree of Engineer of Mines was conferred on:
Albert Lorenzo Metcalf, Shullsburg, Wisconsin.
Thejdegree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on:
Leo Brancis Buckley, South Bend, Indiana.
John Jerome Brislin, Homestead, Pennsylvania.
Joseph James Collins, Boston, Massachusetts.
Ralph Chester Dimick, Hubbard, Oregon.
Robert John Dederich, Saginaw, Michigan.
Joseph Thomas Dixon, Connellsville, Pennsylvania.
James Bdward Deery, Indianapolis, Indiana.
J. .Wilfred Bly, Jeanette, Pennsylvania.
Daniel Rolf Boley, Deerfield, Michigan.	•
Thomas Hugh Bord, Day ton, Ohio.
Bdward L. Bigel, Chicago, Illinois.
James Leo Hope, De Kalb, Illinois.
Albert Michael Kelly, Morris, Illinois.
Joseph Benedict Murphy, Day ton, Ohio.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
249
Justin James Molony, Crawfordsville, Indiana.
Joseph John Maroney, Red Creek, New York.
Wilmer Leo O’Brien, Elkhart, Indiana.
James Baldwin O’Flynn, Butte, Montana.
William Richard Ryan, Cleveland, Ohio.
Arthur Anthony Schellinger, Mishawaka, Indiana.
Fred Llewellyn Steers, Chicago,. Illinois.
Clement L. Ulatowski, Chicago, Illinois.
John Wesley Welch, Mishawaka, Indiana.
The degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on:
Leon Francis Barbazette, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Fred Charles Dana, Fond du Lac, Wisconsin.
Otto Sylvester Hanon, Langford, South Dakota.
Henry Charles Moritz, Peoria, Illinois.
Fred George Wirthman, Kansas City, Missouri.
The degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on:
Edward Joseph Story, Elk City, Oklahoma.
Michael Francis Somers, Bloomington, Illinois.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical En-
gineering were conferred on:
John Proctor Dant, Louisville, Kentucky.
Philip Louis Fleck, Tiffin, Ohio.
Jose M. Mendoza, Chihuahua, Mexico.
James Joseph McCaffrey, South Bend, Indiana.
Carole Joseph Schmidt, Tiffin, Ohio.
Vaughan Henry Talcott, Louisville, Kentucky.
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical En-
gineering were conferred on:
Forest Clay Hyten, Ladoga, Indiana.
Julius Meuninck, Mishawaka, Indiana.
Lawrence Philip Schubert, Indiana.
Certificate for the Short Program in Architecture was
conferred on:
Dalton Bacon Shourds, Terre Haute, Indiana.
250
BULLETIN OB THE
PRIZE MEDALS
The Quan Gold Medae, presented by the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Program, Senior Year, and a
money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of Mr. Henry
Quan, in memory of his deceased father, was awarded
to
Joseph Andrew Quinlan, Chicago, Illinois.
The Meehan Goed Medae for English Essays, presented
by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, Covington, Kentucky ,'was
awarded to
Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan City, Indiana.
The Martin J. McCue Goed Medae, presented by Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the class of ’77,
for the best record for four years in the Civil En-
gineering Program, was awarded to
Nicholas August Gamboa, Cienfuegos, Cuba.
The Breen Goed Medae, bor Oratory, presented by
the Hon. William P. Breen, of the class of ’77, was
awarded to
Charles Christopher Miltner, Lake City, Minnesota.
The Barry Eeocution Goed Medae, presented by
the Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to •
Patrick Henry Cunning, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
SevenTy-Eive Doeears for Debating work, was awarded
as follows:
Thirty Dollars to
William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
Twenty-five Dollars to
John Thomas Burns, Kalamazoo, Michigan.
Twenty Dollars to
James Leo Hope, De Kalb, Illinois.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
251
Ten Doeears in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented
by Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the class of ’89, was
awarded to
William Joseph'Parish, Momence, Illinois.
Ten Doeears in Goed for Sophomore Oratory, presented
by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the class of ’91, was
awarded to
William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
Ten Doeears in Goed for Freshman Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the class of ’91, was
awarded to
Alfred John Brown, Portland, Oregon.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The Fitzsimmons Goed Medae tor Christian Doc-
trine, presented by the Rev. W. J. Fitzsimmons,
Chicago, was awarded to
Jorge San Pedro, Consolacion del Sur, Cuba.
The O’Brien Goed Medae for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence A.
O’Brien, of Chicago, was awarded to
John J. Margraf, Notre Dame, Indiana.
The Joseph A. Lyons Goed Medae for Elocution
was awarded to
Patrick Henry Dolan, Springfield, Illinois.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preparatory Oratory,
presented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell, of the class
of ’04, was awarded to
James Vermont Robins, Hillsboro; New Mexico.
252
bulletin of the
The Mason Medal, donated by Mr. George Mason, of
Chicago, to the student in the Preparatory School
whose scholastic record has been the best during the
school year was awarded to
Patrick Dougherty, Chicago, Illinois.
Commercial Medal given to the student who has at-
tained the best record in Commercial subjects for
the school year was awarded to
Carl Aloysius Meyer, Monroeville, Ohio.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Francis Rdward Quish, Dexter, Michigan.
Carl Meyer, Monroeville, Ohio.
Joseph Henry Meyer, Wellsburg, West Virginia.
Reinhold Lang, Berlin, Ontario, Canada.
William Libert Carrico, Raywick, Kentucky.
UNIVERSTIY OR NOTRE DAME
253
INDEX
Administration Building,
The...................... 12
Admission to the Colleges,
19, 40, 52, 61, 85, 93, 103
Advanced Standing.. .20, 103
Alumni Association
Officers............. 242
Anatomy, Courses in.. 46, 114
Architecture, The College
of.................... 91
Architecture, Courses in.. 115
Arts and Letters, The Col-
lege of.............. 38
Astronomy, Courses in.. 121
Athletics.............17,	30
Bachelors’ Degrees.......	22
Bacteriology, Course in. .	122
Biology, Program in... .	59
Biological Laboratories . .	47
Board of Trustees........	4
Board and Lodging.. .33, 217
Botany, Course in...... 123
Botanical Laboratories. .	48
Breen Medal.............. 27
Brownson Hall............ 16
Buildings............12,	18
Calendar.................. 3
Carroll Scholarship.....	26
Carroll Hall............. 16
Charter................. 11
Chemical Engineering
The Department of.. 90
Chemical Laboratories. . 14, 50
Chemsitry, The Depart-
ment of.........	57
Chemistry, Courses in... 125
Christian Doctrine,
Courses in......... 130
Church, The............. 12
Civil Engineering, The
Department of......	70
Civil Engineering, Courses....
in................. 131
Civil Governm’t, Courses
in................. 198
Classics, The Department
of................... 42
Colleges :
College of Arts and
Letters............... 38
College of Architecture. 93
College of Engineering.. 66
College of Law........ 104
College of Science.... 46
Commercial High School.. 210
Commencement........... 245
Concerts and Lectures... 31
Corby Hall.............. 15
Courses of Instruction.! 13, 198
Debating Prize.......... 29
Degrees..............22,	245
Directory of the Univ....	2
Directors of Halls...... 10
Discipline.............. 29
Doctor of Philosophy,
The Degree of....... 24
Dormitories..........15,	16
Drawing, Courses in
139, 142, 198
Economics, The Depart-
ment of............. 44
Economics, Courses in.. 181
Elocution, Courses in... 148
Elocution Medals........	28
Electrical Engineering,
The Department of..	82
Electrical Engineering,
Courses in......... 145
Engineering, The College
of.................. 64
English, Courses in... 150, 199
Entrance Requirements
21, 41, 63, 65, 103
Executive Officers......	5
Expenses.........35,	36, 217
Faculty...............6,	190
Ford Scholarship........	26
French, Courses in.. 184,
187, 201
Geology, Courses in..... 152
German, Courses in.. 153, 203
Graduate Courses.. 122,
127, 149, 155,
158, 160, 163, 177, 184
Grammar School......... 213
Greek, Courses in.. ..154, 202
Gymnasium............... 17
History and Economics,
The Department of.. 44
History, Courses in.. 203, 156
Historical Sketch of the
University.......... 11
254
BULLETIN OF THS, ETC.
Honors and Prizes. ...25, 250
Hospital................. 17
Hughes’ Medal............ 27
Infirmary................ 17
Instruction, System of. 18, 106
Instructors in the Prepar-
atory School............ 190
Italian, Courses in..... 186
Johnson Scholarship. ...	26
Laboratory Fees.. . .55,	.
57, 59, 68, 69, 193
Laboratories.. 39, 46, 47,
49, 50, 69, 72, 81, 93
Latin, Courses in.. . . 158, 204
Law, The College of.... 104
Law, Courses in......... no
Lectures and Concerts.. 31
Letters, The Department
of...................... 43
Library, The Main.......	12
Libraries, Department
39, 46, 50, 62, 76, 109
List of Students........... 221
Lodging, Board and.. 33, 219
Local Clubs................ 244
Mason Medal................. 27
Masters’ Degrees............ 23
Mathematics, Courses in
160, 205
Meehan Medal................ 27
Mechanical Engineering,
The Department of..	74
Mechanical Engineering,
Courses in.......... 162
Metallurgy, Courses in.. 167
Microscopy, Courses in.. 169
Military................... 219
Minims, The School for. . 214
Mining Engineering, The
Department of......	89
Mining Engineering,
Course in........... 169
Museum............... 13
Music Hall........... 13
Music, Courses in.... 170
Observatory.......... 15
Officers of the University.	5
Oratory, Courses in.. 148
Pharmacy, The Depart-
ment of.............. 61
Pharmacy, Courses in.	.	.	173
Philosophy, Courses	in.	.	175
Physical Laboratories... 51
Physics, Courses in...... 177
Physiology, Courses in. . . 179
Political Science, Courses
in............‘..... 181
Politics, Courses in..... 183
Portuguese, Courses in. .. 187
Preparatory School... 189, 193
Prizes...................27,	247
Professors...........6,	7, 8, 9
Program of Studies..42,
43,	44,	56,	57,	58,
60,	63,	71,	77,	79,
86,	89,	90,	99,	100,
101,	194,	195,	196,	197, 211
Provencal, Courses in.... 187
Psychology, Courses in. .. 176
Psychological Laboratory 39
Quan Medal.................... 27
Regulations Governing
Admission to the
Colleges................. 19
Romance Languages,
Courses in.............. 183
Scholarships.................. 25
Science Hall.................. 13
Science, The College of. .	45
Science, Program of
General.................. 55
Science, Courses in Ele-
mentary............ 207
Short Programs in
Architecture.........99, 183
Electrical Engineering. 87
Mechanical Engineering 80
Shops, The............... 14
Shopwork, Courses in. . .. 167
Sociology, Courses in... 183
Societies................ 34
Sorin Hall............... 15
Spanish, Courses in..... 185
Special Students.....25, 105
St. Joseph Hall.......... 17
System of Instruction.. .	18
Title (Legal) of the Uni-
versity............. 11
Theater, The University..	13
Trustees, Board of......	4
Tuition Fees..........33,	217
Walsh Hall............... 15
Washington Hall.........	13
Zoology, Courses in.. . . 187
• It is' desired that every graduate receive a copy
of the Bulletin.. The Faculty will therefore con-
sider it a favor to be, notified: in case an Alumnus
changes his address. .	;	''
/ • On application to the President, bulletins will
be sent to all who are interested in the work of
the University. -. ■ ‘ . ...	~ -	■’ . ■ . .	... ■ - ■-