Series V
Number 3
BULLETIN
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE '
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JANUARY, 1910
Entered nt the Postoflice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class matter, July 17, 1905
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY.
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend.
BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.,
TREASURER.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
Rev MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. TIMOTHY R. MURPHY, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Bro. ALBAN, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
PROFESSORS AND INSTRUCTORS IN THE
COLLEGE.
Rev. THOMAS A. CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
'	English.
Rev. LEONARD CARRICO, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C,
Political Economy.
Rev. THOMAS J. IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.	.
Rev. JOSEPH P. BURKE, C. S. C.,
Sociology, History.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B, B. S. A.,
Architecture.
JAMES F. EDWARDS, A. M, LL. B,
Librarian.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Mechanics.
FRANCIS WYNNE KERVICK, B. S. in Arch.,.
Architecture.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMANN, M. S.,
Mechanical Drawing.
JEROME J. GREEN, M. E, E. E.,
Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E, E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD J. MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics.
GALLITZIN FARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
-	Law.
JOHN WORDEN, B. S.,
Freehand Drawing, Modeling.
WILLIAM B. KELLEY,
Shopwork.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
DOLOR PARENT,
French.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
5
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the year
1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the late Supe-
rior General of the Congregation of Holy Cross. In an act
approved January 15, 1844, the Legislature of Indiana gave
the University power to grant degrees. The beginning of
this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis Coin-
tet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse and
their associates and successors in office, be, and are hereby
constituted and declared to be, a body corporate and politic,
by the name and style of the ‘University of Notre Dame du
Lac/ and by that name shall have perpetual succession, with
full power and authority to confer and grant, or cause to be
’conferred and granted such degrees and diplomas in the lib-
eral arts and sciences, and in law and medicine, as are usu-
ally conferred and granted in other universities in the
United States, provided, however, that no degree shall be
conferred' or diplomas granted, except to students who have
acquired the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as is customary in other universi-
ties in the United States?
6
BULLETIN OF THE
COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that a deep*
and comprehensive knowledge of engineering science is nec-
essary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Artist is the heaven-gifted man who, having-
conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of form, color,,
texture, and ornament, can build them structurally and
economically perfect. 0 It is seldom that any mind combines
all of these attributes. It is more seldom that to-day’s prac-
tice requires them in any one man. To-day, one man
“designs”; another “frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of Architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture from?
the College of Engineering and to create the new College
of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offer a short course pro-
gram, three undergraduate programs and two graduate pro-
grams to men able to furnish the entrance requirements.
The Short Program covering two years is designed for
students finding it impossible or inexpedient to devote to
school work the time required for completing the programs
leading to degrees. Upon completion of the Short Program
a Certificate of Proficiency is given.
The two Design Programs ordinarily require four years
for completion. These programs are identical, except that
one major course in one is English, with various electives
in the third and fourth years, and in the other the major
is Mathematics. They are offered to students wishing to*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	7
specialize in design. The degree of Bachelor of Science in
Architecture is given at completion. The Engineering Pro-
gram is of the same length and is offered to men wishing to
specialize in construction. The degree of Bachelor of Sci-
ence in Architectural Engineering is given at completion.
Graduate years are offered in both programs, and upon
completion, Master’s degrees are conferred.
In the fourth year and in the Short Program, the class-
room requirements are less and the time to be spent in the
draughting-room correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or any of
the four-year programs must be at least eighteen years
of age and must have completed the studies preparatory to
architecture either in the Preparatory Department of the
University or in another accredited school; or, entrance
may be by examination, at the University on the first two
days of the fall term, or in Chicago at the offices of the
University on days announced in the press of that city.
Students may not matriculate with more than one condi-
tion ; and any condition interfering with the routine of the
courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing there
must be a corresponding increase in the age limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate years
must have received their Bachelor degree in Architecture
or in Architectural Engineering from Notre Dame or an-
other School of Architecture of equal standing. The Uni-
versity will confer the Master’s degree on her own graduate
students not in residence at the end of one year if that time
is spent in an atelier of the first order or in travel abroad
following an approved curriculum of study and investiga-
tion ; or at the end of not less than two years if that time is
spent in practice and the requirements of the University
are complied with.
8
BULLETIN OF THE
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from a
small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more com-
plete. There are a number of signed drawings—some from
the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from architects of national
reputation; a large elaborate model of the Cook County
Court House, Chicago; photographs, engravings, plaster
models, reference books and manufacturers* catalogues and
samples. The collection, however, needs to be increased
faster than the resources of the University will permit.
Philanthropic friends of Notre Dame can not giye money,
or its equivalent, for a better purpose. The endowment of a
Traveling Fellowship, preferably for the study of Euro-
pean Ecclesiastical Architecture, will be a benefaction of the
utmost value. One thousand dollars will provide for one
man for one year.	«
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS.
Candidates for the First Year in any four-year program,
or for the First Year of the Short Program* must be pre-
pared to pass an examination in the branches named below,
unless they have done their preparatory work at Notre
Dame or in an accredited High School or Preparatory
School of equal rank.
English. Part of the examination is given for answer-
ing questions upon the text-books and readings required in
the preparatory courses in English; the remainder for writ-
ing an essay.	•
* Draftsmen, of twenty-two years of age or older, of not
less than two years’ experience, and others as well qualified, may
take up the work of the Short Program without examination.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
9
Algebra. Fundamental operations, simple equations, in-
volution and evolution, radicals, radical equations and quad-
ratic equations, including everything up to logarithms, as
given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or of an equivalent
in the larger treatises by other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of Greek
and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern- history,
as set forth in the texts used in the high schools and acad-
emies of the country.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as given in
high schools of good standing. Laboratory work is also re-
quired.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this subject
should include a course of lectures illustrated by experi-
ments, and recitations from a text book similar to Carhart
and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is also required.
Civics. Elementary.
French. A. three years’ course in French is required.
Ability to translate at sight French into English, and easy
English sentences into French.
German. An equivalent course in German or any other
language may be offered for French.
Drawing. A knowledge of the use of drawing instru-
ments, of projection drawing and elementary freehand.
10
BULLETIN OF THE
THE DESIGN PROGRAMS.
Degree: Bachelor of Science in Architecture
Master of Science in Architecture
It has been the aim of the College in offering the first
design program to so plan it that the student will have
upon completion a general liberal education, a practical
working knowledge of Construction, and a systematic
and thorough training in Architectural Design and Com-
position. It may be undertaken by students whose ar-
tistic intuition and temperament fit them especially for
the aesthetic side of a noble profession.
It follows essentially the course of study planned by
the American Institute of Architects, as outlined in the
yearly reports of its Committee on Education.
The second program is offered for the convenience of
students who desire to specialize in Mathematics rather
than in English, or who have advanced standing for
work done at other schools and who wish to complete
the work leading to a degree at Notre Dame.
The programs are built up around the work in
the draughting-room and atelier, where half of the stu-
dent’s time is spent. The work in Design, beginning in
the first year with the intelligent study of the Orders
and simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by
means of minor and major problems involving the plan-
ning of all classes of buildings from the simplest to the
most monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by
exercises in the various methods and media of rendering
and by a thorough course in freehand drawing and mod-
eling. All instruction in planning and composition is
based on accepted principles of design.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
11
The materials and methods of all trades and profes-
sions engaged in building operations are systematically
studied in the Construction classes throughout the four
years of the program. The writing of specifications for
each branch of labor is studied synchronously. Practi-
cal work in the various trades is given so that the stu-
dent may know good work and thus be able to super-
intend construction intelligently. The practical lessons
■are supplemented by regular inspection trips to the im-
portant building operations and industries in the neigh-
borhood of the University, and by an annual visit to
Chicago of three or four days’ duration, always made
during the time of the Chicago Architectural Club’s an-
nual exhibit. Last year the classes saw the making of
steel at the U. S. Steel Corporation’s immense new plant,
at Gary, Indiana; of cement at the Universal Portland
Cement Co.’s Buffington plant; of architectural terra
cotta at the Northwestern Terra Cotta Co.’s works, and
of wrought iron and bronze at the Winslow Bros. Co.’s
works. The Chicago trip is part of the required work.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used as
supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
^girders and trusses of all forms are studied and numer-
ous practical problems are solved.
Working drawings and details of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College in
outlining the construction courses to equip the student
to solve by office methods any problem he may meet in
ordinary practice, it being taken for granted that graver
problems requiring a deep knowledge of the higher math-
ematics may well be left to the architectural engineer.
12
BULLETIN OF THE
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations,,
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of high
professional standing will give a number of the lectures
in this course.
The history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering four years. The method is
a combination of lectures, recitation and research.
On the Chicago trip, a day is always spent visiting
the Egyptian and Roman antiquities at the Field Mu-
seum, and the collection of paintings, sculpture and archi-
tectural casts at the Art Institute.
Courses either in mathematics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years complete
the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism and
research is done and larger and more complicated prob-
lems are given in design.
I
B
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
THE ENGINEERING PROGRAM.
Degrees : Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering
The science of Engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be thor-
ough, the Engineer must specialize. One of his special-
izations is in Architecture. His services are needed to
frame important buildings, to design their foundations
and to protect adjoining property while they are in erec-
tion. The College offers the Program in Architectural
Engineering because there is need of the services of the men
who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engineers
should have a bent for Mathematics and for painstaking,
•exact draughting.
The program of studies differs from that of the first
Design Program, chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied Mathematics are substi-
tuted for the courses in English, Economics and Phil-
osophy ; the more important Construction courses go
deeper into theory; Freehand work ends with the sec-
ond year; the study of Historic Ornament and the His-
tories of the “allied arts” omitted; and a relatively
greater amount of time, increasing each year, is spent
on structural design.
The Graduate Year is spent entirely in solving prob-
lems of the first order in Architectural Engineering.
14
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SHORT PROGRAM.
Certificate of Proficiency.
Many ambitious men, who wish to follow the profes-
sion of Architecture, find themselves unable to devote
the time needed to obtain a degree; other men, who have-
worked as draftsmen in architect’s offices, see the neces-
sity of an education on broader lines. The Short Pro-
gram is designed to meet the needs of these men. It
covers a great deal of the purely architectural work of
the four-year Programs. And while it comprises such
elementary work as the Orders, Perspective, Shades and
Shadows, the College Faculty will gladly substitute for that
additional time in Design.
Candidates for the Certificate may, if proficient in other
courses, substitute for them equivalent additional work
from the four-year Programs.
SUMMER WORK.
Summer, or Vacation Work, consisting of sketches,,
projects, measured drawings or work in an Architect’s
office will be required of all students of Architecture.
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS.”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation.
A freehand or design hour means two actual hours
in the drafting-room. There is a specified amount of work
to accomplish for which credit points are given at completion.
The drafting-room is open all day and is always occu-
pied. It is desired to have the student work there stead-
ily five hours a day. The average student can com-
plete his work in that time.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
15
PROGRAM IN DESIGN.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	26	I	English	3	26	I
El. of Arch.	8	22	I	El. of Arch.	8	22	I
Construction	4	19	I	Construction	4	19	I
Hist, of Arch.	2	18	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	18	I
Drawing Des. Geom. )	2	25	Ic	Drawing	2	25	Id
Shades and > Shadows )	1	24	III	Perspective	1	24	III
SECOND YEAR.
English	3	26	II	English	3	26	II
Design	8	22	II	Design	8	22	II
Construction	3	20	II	Construction	3	20	II
Hist, of Arch.	2	18	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	18	II
Drawing	2	25	Ha	Drawing -	2	25	Ha
Graphics	2	30	I	Graphics	2	30	I
The’y of Des.	1	22	VII				
THIRD YEAR.
Elective Design	co	22	HI	Elective Design	4 8	22	III
Construction Hist, of	1	20	III	Construction Hist, of	1	20	III
Ornament	2	18	HI	Sculpture	2	18	IV
Drawing Heat and	2	25	lib	Pen and Ink Water	1	26	VII
Ventilation	2	21	V	Color Sanitation	1 2	26 21	VI
Electricity	1	21	VII	Church Des.	1	23	VIII
FOURTH YEAR.
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Hist, of				Bus. Ethics	2	27	I
Painting	2	19	V	Modeling	2	25	IV
Drawing	1	25	III	Design	10	22	IV
Drawing	1	26	VI	(Thesis)			
Design	10	22	IV				
At the beginning of the First Year the student matriculating for the
Program in Design may, with the consent of the Faculty, elect a Major in
Mathematics instead of the Major in English. The Mathematics courses
for the four years will be as follows: Algebra, I; Analytic Geometry, II;
Calculus, III, IV, V; Physics, II, III; Analytic Mechanics, VIII; Mechanics
of Materials, X. .	.
At the beginning of his Third Year, the student following the regular
Program in Design may, if his proficiency in English warrants. it, elect to
follow during the Third and Fourth Years one of the following courses:
English, Philosophy, Political Science, History, French or German.
He may not, however, elect a course in the same language that
he offered for credit at matriculation. If the above election is denied the
student, he must continue his work in English for one or two years more
as may decided by the Faculty.
4
16
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	Hours a Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hours a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Algebra	5	30	I	Anal. Geom.	5	31	II
Des. Geom.	3	27	I	Des. Geom.	3	27	I
Construction.	4	19	I	Construction	4	19	I
Shades and	1	24					
Shadows			III	Perspective	1	24	III
Drawing	1	24	I	Drawing	1	24	II
Drawing	1	25	Ic	Drawing	1	25	Id
El. of zlrch.	8	22	I	El. of Arch.	8	22	I
SECOND YEAR.
Calculus	5	31	III	Calculus	5	31	IV,V
Physics	5	32	II,III	Physics	5	32	II,III
Construction	4	20	II,III	Construction	4	20	II,III
Design	7	22	II	Design	2	25	II
Drawing Theory of	2	25	Ila	Drawing	7	22	Ila
Design	1	23	VII				
THIRD YEAR.
Anal. Meehan.	5	28	VIII	Anal. Meeh.	2	28	VIII
Sanitary Eng.	2	29	XIII	Mechanics			
Electricity	1	21	VII	of Mat’ls	3	28	X
Heating and				San’t’ry Eng.	2	29	XIII
Ventilating	2	21	V	Surveying	3	27	II,HI
Hist, of Arch	2	18	I	Hist, of			
				Arch.	2	18	I
Struc. Design	8	23	V	Struct. Des.	8	23	V
FOURTH YEAR.
Arch. Eng.	2	20	IV	Arch. Eng.	3	20	IV
Bridges and Roofs	5	29	XIV	Graphics Hist of	5	30	XV
Stereotomy	3	24	VI	Arch.	2	18	II
Hist, of Arch.	2	18	II	Bus. Ethics	2	27	I
Struct. Design	8	23	VI	Struct. Des. (Thesis)	8	22	VI
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
SHORT PROGRAM.
FIRST YEAR.
SUBJECTS First Term	H< urs a | Week	See for Description		SUBJECTS Second Term	Hour1? a Week	See for Description	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
Hist, of Arch.	2	18	. I	Hist, of Arch.	2	18	I
Construction	4	19	I	Construction.	4	19	I
Des. Geom. )			III	Perspective	1	24	HI
Shades and ?	1	24		Drawing	1	25	Id
Shadows )				Pen and Ink	1	26	VII
Drawing	1	25	Ic	El. of Arch?	4	22	XV
El. of Arch.	12	22	I	Design	8	22	II
				The y of Des.	1	23	VII
SECOND YEAR.
Hist, of Arch.	2	18	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	18	II
Construction	4	20	11,111	Construction.	4	20	III
Graphics	2	30	I	Graphics	2	30	I
Heat, and			"V*	Sanitation	2	21	VI
Ventilation	2	21			1		
Electricity	1	‘21	VII	Bus. Ethics	2	27	VI
Water Color	1	26	V	Drawing	4	25	Ha
Drawing	4	25	Ila	Modeling	2	25	IV
Design	8	22	HI	Design	8	22	HI
					1	23	VII
18
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
ARCHITECTURE.
I AND II.
History of Architecture. This course includes a study
of history, manners, customs, politics and religion as well
as of the Architecture of Egypt, Assyria, Greece and Rome.
It takes up the rise and development of Christianity and
the Christian types—Basilican, Romanesque; Byzantine
and its Mohammendan offshoots; Gothic and Renaissance
in all their phases. Some attention is paid to Indian,
Chinese and Japanese styles. A comprehensive review is
made of American work. In seminar the course is com-
pleted by a study and discussion of the various phases of
“The New Art”, both abroad and in the United States.
Instruction is by text-book, lectures, readings and re-
search.
Text-book, Hamlin, Sturgis.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
III.
Historic Ornament. A study* of the origin and evolu-
tion of all styles of ornament, and of its application to archi-
tectural forms, appurtenances and objects of art.
Instruction by text-book, lectures, readings, and drawings
in various media.
In drawing fifteen plates are required.
Text-book, Glazier.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
History of Sculpture. A brief historical review of
ancient and modern sculpture.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Marquand and Frothingham.
[Two hours a week for one term ]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
19
History of Painting. A brief historical and critical re-
view of Painting.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Van Dyke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
CONSTRUCTION.
I.
In this course the student obtains a thorough knowledge
of the materials and methods of masonry, carpentry, roofing,
metal-working, painting. Each trade is considered separ-
ately, and at conclusion an exhaustive study of specification
writing and methods of estimating for it is made. Detail
drawings of constructive methods are made exactly as in
an architect’s office.
In the spring terms of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on the campus one of his projects
and to furnish all levels required by the builder in order to
acquire thoroughness in the use of the architect’s level and
compass.
The University constantly furnishes employment to a
large force of trained mechanics who will give personal
lessons to the student in all branches of these trades. In-
spection visits are made regularly, as a supplementary ex-~
ercise in superintendence, to important building operations
in the neighborhood.
Instruction is by text-books and lectures.
Fifteen points must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder's Building Construction Vols. I, II;
Kidder's Handbook. Supplementary, Sweet's Index.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
20
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
A thorough study of foundation work—caissons, piles,
grillage, spread and stepped footings; fire proofing of all
forms; the design and construction of steel framing.
Working drawings for one of the student’s projects are
made. Especial care and accuracy are demanded in the
preparation of the framing plans and details. This work
is traced and blue-printed by First Year students.
Instruction is by text-books and lectures. Eight points
must be made in inspections and drawing.
Text-books, Kidder, Vol. I; Frietag ; Supplementary—
Sweet’s Index, Carnegie and Bethlehem “Millbooks.”
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
A study of Reinforced Concrete; Elevators; Power plants
for buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Five points must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Watson; Supplementary, Sweet’s Index,
Concrete Handbooks.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering. A course in which the
student is taught .to solve graphically and analytically more
complicated problems in structural design and applied me-
chanics. Shoring, underpinning, retaining walls, jointed
trusses, arches, vaults and domes are the more important
topics.	’
Instruction is by text-book. Twelve points must be made
in inspections and drawing.	-
Text-books, Kidder, Fols. I, III; Wittmann.
[Two hours a week for one term, three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.	21
V.
Heating and Ventilation. This course is a study of
the theory and practice of heating and ventilating public
buildings and dwelling houses. The different systems of
heating,—furnace heating, hot water, steam, etc.,—are care-
fully examined and studied. The radiation of heat from
surfaces, the different systems of piping, condition of air
as to moisture, amount of air required, causes and best
means adopted to secure pure air; the necessity of good
ventilation and the latest approved methods for securing
this are some of the topics considered in this study.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Carpenter.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Sanitation. The following are topics covered in this
course: The carrying away of surface water and wastes
from the building; pipes and fittings; one and two-pipe
roughing-in systems; traps; domestic water supplies; pump-
ing engines; heating of water for domestic purposes; plumb-
ing fixtures.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Cosgrove.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
I
VII.
Electricity. Laboratory and lectures on the uses of
electricity in buildings, systems of wiring, materials used,
the underwriters’ requirements, study of bells, telephones,
electric lighting, photometry and illumination.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
22
BULLETIN OF THE
DESIGN.
I.
Elements of Architecture. This is a course of draw-
ing. Thirty-two plates of standard size (or their equiva-
lent) will be made during the year. They will consist of
measured drawings of the Roman and Greek orders, of the
various details associated with them and of simple prob-
lems involving their use; of lettering; of exercises in wash
and color; and of studies in shades and shadows and per-
spective.
> Each plate will be examined by the Professor in charge,
and may be marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest Men-
tion,” counting %, or 1 point, respectively. All plates
must be drawn and at least fifteen points registered.
Instruction is by text-book.
Text-books, Ware, von Mauch, McGoodwin.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
II,	III AND IV.
These courses are the most important on the program.
In the solving of the problems the student makes use of
every item of information that he has acquired in all his
other class-work, for the aim of the instruction in design
is, primarily, practicability. The planning is straight-for-
ward, logical and direct;—the design is powerful,
simple, and expressive. The method is criticism.
The means are major and minor problems of varying de-
grees of difficulty varying from a masonry gate-post to the
most monumental projects. These problems are stated in
programs that are made definite and practical and as like
actual conditions as possible. A recent problem was a pub-
lic bath and reading room on an irregular shaped parcel
of ground in the neighboring city. The students surveyed
the ground before beginning the sketches.
Second year men are required to execute eight minor and
eight major problems; third year men, eight minor and six
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
23
major problems; and fourth year men, four minor and
three major problems and the thesis.
These designs are criticised by the Professor in charge,
or by some able architect especially invited. They may be
marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest Mention,” count-
ing % or 1 point respectively for minor problems, and
2, 3 or 4 points for major problems.
Fifteen points must be registered in second year design,
as many in third year design, and eight in fourth year
design before thesis work is started.
[Eight, eight and ten hours a week, respectively, for three years.]
V, VI.
Structural Design. These courses have the same rel-
ative importance as the courses in design. The analogy
goes further, the work is given as major and minor prob-
lems of varying degrees of difficulty and is judged and
marked in the same manner. The scope of the problems
will vary from the making of an ordinary footing plan to
the framing of the structural steel work of a large dome.
The amount of work and the points required to be reg-
istered is the same for the same year as given under Design
II, III, IV.
[Eight hours a week for three years.]
VII.
Theory of Design. A thorough study of the principles
of planning and proportion supplemented by study of the
perfection and faults of the world's most famous buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Robinson.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Church Design. This course is conducted by means of
lectures and research. It includes the arrangement of
sanctuaries, sacristies and baptisteries as affected by litur-
gical needs. The subject of church furniture and acces-
sories is also discussed.
[One hour a week for one term.]
24
BULLETIN OF THE
DRAWING, MECHANICAL.
I.
Freehand. This course consists of sketching with pen-
cil and pen from flat copies and models and freehand letter-
ing. Later in the term the use of instruments, section-lining
and lettering are taught. Text-book, Jamison's Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the prin-
ciples of projection, methods of shop-drawing, tinting, trac-
ing, blue-printing, line-shading and the preparation of work-
ing drawings of complete machines. This course must be
preceded by Course I. Text-book, Jamison's Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates is
made, illustrating the principles of orthographic and spheri-
cal projections, shades and shadows, perspective and iso-
metric projections.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VI.
Stereotomy. This course comprises a study of the ap-
plication of the principles of Descriptive geometry to the
determination of the forms and sizes of the stones used
in the construction of the different classes of arches and
masonry structures. This course is given by lectures in
the drawing room, explaining the construction of templates,
and the use of directing instrument; also explanations of
methods of drawing plans, elevation and development of
oblique arches, wing walls and the like. A certain number
of plates and drawings is required, illustrating the meth-
ods of performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections of
masonry, construction, foundations, dams, piers, abutments,
culverts and arches. Text-book, French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
25
DRAWING, FREEHAND AND MODEL-
ING.
I.
(a)	Drawing from casts of ornaments purely geomet-
rical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc. Sketching
from simple objects.
(&)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which the
elements are living forms, such as ornamental leaves and
flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, architectural
ornaments such as pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure; hands,
feet, masks, etc. Sketching from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS.
II.
(a) Drawing from the antique of heads and busts. Still
life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature. Selec-
tion of a subject. Composition in landscape.
(Z?) Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching from
the costumed model. Still life in water colors.
III.
Life Class. Drawing from life. Sketching from the
costumed model. Still life painting in water colors. Land-
scape painting.
IV.
Modeling. The objects modeled are architectural
forms copied from the cast or made from the student’s
drawings of his own work, as his progress and ability may
warrant.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
26
BULLETIN1 OF THE
Water Color. Drawing in water color from still life
and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Rendering in Water Color. The rendering of arch-
tectural drawings, including perspectives,—casting of shad-
ows, color treatments of buildings and handling of fore-
ground and background.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VII.
Pen and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and ink from
studies by noted artists in this branch of art; followed by
rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
ENGLISH.
I.
(a) . Sher an’s Handbook of Literary Criticism.
[Three hours a week for fourteen w*eeks.]
(&)	Essay and Oration. Intensive study
[Three hours a week for twelve weeks.]
(a) Sears’ Methods and Principles of Criticism.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned read-
ings.
«	II.
(a)	Sheran’s Handbook of Literary Criticism.
[Two hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Catholic Authors.
[One hour a week for fourteen weeks.]
(c)	Poetry and the Poets. Texts, theory and criti-
cal study. Page’s American and English Poets. Corsons
A Primer of Verse.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
27
BUSINESS ETHICS.
I._
In this course is given descriptions of a system
of bookkeeping suited to the needs of an architect’s busi-
ness, a system of building accounts, filing systems for cat-
alogue and prints, a card index system for prints and gen-
eral information; of forms for agreements with clients, for
proposals and acceptances, for contracts and bonds, and
for certificates; the laws affecting clients, contractors and
architects; and the rules of professional ethics in private
practice, competitions and municipal affairs.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Wait.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
ENGINEERING.
I.
%
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are considered
problems on the point, right line, and plane; single curved,
double curved, and warped surfaces; problems relating to
tangent planes, to single curved, double curved, and warped
surfaces; intersection of surfaces; spherical projections;
orthographic, stereographic, globular, cylindrical, and conic
projections; construction of maps, shades and shadows;
linear perspective; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises requiring the
application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry, are
added by the instructor. Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory of
land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment of the
transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods of meas-
uring; relocations of boundaries; supplying omissions; ob-
stacles to measurement; computations; field notes and plots;
laying out land; parting off land; dividing up land; public
lands survey. Text-book, Gillespie.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
28
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution of
problems in the field, the theory of which is taught in the
class room; practice in keeping field notes; computation and
plots.	[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VIII.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to pre-
pare students of engineering for the study of the courses
of applied mechanics. The course comprises a study of the
fundamental principles of statics, kinematics, and kinetics.
The subjects selected are studied with the object of thor-
oughly preparing the engineering students to pursue the
technical and practical branches of their respective courses.
Some of the topics considered in this course are: work,
energy, conservation of energy; power, composition and
resolution of forces, center of gravity, center of mass,
moment of inertia, acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies,
laws of friction, etc. Text-book, Zvwet.
[Five hours a week for first term. Two hours a week for
second term.]
Mechanics of Materials. This course is intended to
meet the requirements of engineering students, and to pre-
pare them, by a study of the action and effect of forces on
beams and structures, to design economically and intelli-
gently the parts entering into a complete structure. The
course comprises a study of the elastic and ultimate
deformation of the materials of engineering, their proper-
ties. and methods of testing, and discussion of cases of
simple stresses. The general theory of beams including
cases of simple and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed,
and continuous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns
are examined according to Euler’s, Rankine’s and other
formulae and results compared. Some of the other sub-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
29
jects considered in this course, are torsion of shafts, the
transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and tor-
sion, etc. Compound columns and beams, reinforced con-
crete beams, plate girders and other forms. Then is studied
the subjects, resilience and work, impact and fatigue, true
internal stresses, centrifugal tension and flexure, unsym-
metric loads on beams,—the course closing with a study of
the mathematical theory of elasticity. Text-book, Merri-
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study of the
principles and methods of drainage and disposal of sewage
in populous districts: shape, material and calculation of
sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ventilation; separate and
combined system compared; pollution of rivers; chemical
precipitation; results and costs of purification; general
municipal and domestic sanitation; inspection of neighbor-
ing work. Text-book, Staley and Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roofs. This course comprises a study of
the different systems of trussed bridges and roof trusses,
and the calculation of the strains produced when loaded in
any manner, the weight of the structure and the effect of
wind included. Both graphical and analytical methods are
used. Besides the various systems of trussed bridges,
which are studied in detail, the plate girders, suspension
bridges, cantilever bridges, draw bridges, and roofs of va-
rious designs are given equal attention; the purpose being
to familiarize the student with the different forms and en-
able him to design and to estimate the cost of construction.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
30
BULLETIN OF THE
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical method.
Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of gravity, and
moments of inertia are graphically determined by the appli-
cation of the principles of the force and equilibrium poly-
gons; also the determination of stresses in bridge trusses
with parallel chords and with broken chords, caused by
uniform loads and locomotive wheel loads: graphical deter-
mination of stresses in roof trusses, graphical treatment of
the arch, symmetrical and unsymmetrical cases, graphical
methods of arch-ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed ends;
stress diagrams; temperature stresses; braced arches;
graphics applied to continuous girders. This course is
supplemented by full explanations, notes, examples, and
problems. Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
GRAPHICS
I.
An elementary study of graphic statics. Forces, result-
ants ; center of gravity, moment of inertia; buttresses;
beams; truss loadings under snow and wind; truss con-
struction. For students in Design Program.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Kidder’ Vol. Ill, Ricker, Sondericker.
[Two hours‘a week for two terms.]
MATHEMATICS.
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the binomial
thereom, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance, variables
and limits, series, determinants. Then follows a thorough
study of the general properties and solution of equations,
embracing the subjects of derivatives, transformation, de-
tached coefficients, surd and imaginary roots, incommensur-
able roots, limits of roots, bi-quadric equations, Des Cartes’
and Cardan’s rules; Sturm’s theorem; Horner’s method.
Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME.
31
II.
Analytic Geometry. This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections; their equations and
properties; discussion of the general equation of the second
degree containing two variables, different systems of coordi-
nates; transformation of coordinates; an elementary course
in geometry of three dimensions, embracing the point,
straight line, plane and spherical surfaces of revolution;
transformation of coordinates; quadric surfaces and supple-
mentary propositions. Text-book, Bailey and Woods.
[Five hours a week for one term.] *
III.
Calculus, Differential. This course as also Courses
IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements of Engi-
neering students. It includes a study of the methods for
the differentation of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential,
trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric functions, succes-
sive differentiation, and differential coefficients; treatment
of implicit and compound functions; expansion of functions;
indeterminate forms; partial differential coefficients of the
first order and of higher orders; direction of curvature;
radius of curvature; envelopes; maxima and minima of
functions of one independent variable, and of several inde-
pendent variables; tracing curves; differentials af arcs, plane
areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book, Os-
borne.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus, Integral. Integration of elementary form
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalization and
by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals; definite
integrals, limits of integration; double integration applied
to plane areas; rectification of plane curves; quadratures of
plane areas and surfaces of revolution; surface and volume
32
BULLETIN OF THE
of any solid; intrinsic equation of a curve. This course is
supplemented by numerous exercises and examples. Text-
book, Osborne.
[Five hours a week for three months.]
Differential Equations. An elementary course for
Engineering students, supplementary to the course of inte-
gral calculus. It embraces equations of the first order and
first degree: equations of the first order, but not of the first
degree; singular solutions; linear equations with constant
coefficients; special forms of equations with higher orders.
Numerous applications to mechanics and physics are in-
troduced during the course. Text-book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
PHYSICS.
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more ex-
tended treatment of the same subjects than is given in
Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to physical
phenomena. Special attention is paid to accuracy in the
mathematical work and in the statements of the principles
involved. Lectures and recitations. Text-book, Crewe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physical Problems. The application of mathematics in
physical work. Measurements of length, mass and time.
Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and mag-
netism. The work is done in the laboratory and the stu-
dent is taught to depend on his own resources and to check
his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]