Bird’s-Eye; View or the University or Notre Dame.
Series VIL
Number IV ♦
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL CATALOGUE
19^-1912
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
APRIL, J 912
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July J 7, J 905
2
BULLETIN or THE
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
NOTRB DAME, INDANA.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hadd in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is '41 degrees, 43
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable
for a healthful climate where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great .fatigue or
danger to health.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
3
CALENDAR FOR 1912-13.
1912
Sept. io, ii. Entrance Examinations and Examination of
Conditioned Students in the Preparatory-
School.
i2. Preparatory School Opens.
17, 18. Entrance Examinations and Examination of
i‘9-
22.
Oct.	13.
27.
Nov.	1.
18, 19.
28.
Dsc. 7.
8.
10.
2Q-
1913
Jan.	3.
31-1
Feb.	i. )
3-
22.
28.
March 17.
19.
' 23.
24.
April ii, 12.
May 20.
30.
3TJ
June 9,10,11.
ii, 13.
12.
14.
15.
'	16.
17, 18.
Conditioned Students in the Colleges.
Colleges Open.
Reading of University Regulations in all the
Halls.
Founder’s Day. No Classes.
Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
Feast of All Saints. No Classes.	.
Mid-Term Examinations.	•
Thanksgiving Day. No Classes.
The William P. Breen Medal Orations.
Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No Classes
President’s Day. No Classes.
Christmas Vacation Begins.
Classes Resume.
Term Examinations.
Second Term Begins.
Washinton’s Birthday. No Classes. Presenta-
tion of Fiag by the Senior Class.
State Oratorical Contest.
St. Patrick’s Day.
St. Joseph’s Day.
Easter. No Easter Vacation.
Easter Monday. No Classes.
Mid-Term Examinations.
Latest Date for Handing in Prize Essays and
Graduating Theses in all the Colleges.
Decoration Day. No Classes.
The Patrick T. Barry Medal Recitations.
The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations.
Examination of Candidates for Graduation.
Examinations in Preparatory School.
Commencement in Preparatory School.
Vacation in Preparatory School Begins.
Baccalaureate Sermon. Meeting of the Alumni.
Commencement. Bachelor’s Orations, 10:00
a. m. Commencement Address and Gradu-
ation Exercises, 8 :oo p. m.
Examinations in the Colleges.
s
4
BULLETIN OF THE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
VERY Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
5
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S.-C.,
PREFECT of DISCIPLINE.
Bro. ALBAN, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
6
BULLETIN OB THE
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
Rev. JONH CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Special English.
Rev. MATTHBW WALSH, C. S. C.,
•	History.
Rev. MATTHBW SCHUMACHBR, C. S. C„
Scholastic Philosophy.
Rev. JOSBPH BURKB, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALBXANDBR MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
■ Biology and Geology.
Rev. JOHN BERNARD SCHBIBR, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONBY, C. S. C.,
Dramatics and Oratory.
Rev. JOSBPH MAGUIRB, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
Rev. MICHABL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. PATRICK CARROLL, C. S. C.,
Irish History.
Rev. MICHABL OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
7
Rev. JULIUS NIBUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Botany.
Rev. MIBCBSLAUS SZALBWSKI, C. S. C.,
Polish Language and History.
Rev. J. LBONARD CARRICO, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
Rev. CHARLBS L. O’DONNBLL, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. CHARLBS L. DORBMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
REV. CORNBLIUS J. HAGBRTY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
‘ Rev. WILLIAM A. BOLGBR, C. S. C.,
Political Economy and Sociology.
Rev. PAUL POIK, C. S. C.,
Librarian.
Rev. JOHN TALBOT SMITH, LL. D.,
Lecturer on English Literature.
Bro. GBRARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
WILLIAM HOYNBS; A. M., LL. D., K. S. G.
Law.
8
bublbtin or Tur
MARTIN McCUB, M. S., C. B-,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.
TIMOTHY. BD WARD HOWARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
BRANCIS XAVIBR ACKBRMAN, M. S.,
Mechanical Erawing.
JBROMB JOSBPH GRBBN, M. B. B. B-,
Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BBNITZ, M. B. B. B.,
Mechanical Engineering.
BDWARD JOSBPH MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics and Surveying.
GALLITZIN BARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
Law.
CAPTAIN R^ R. STOGSDALL, U. S. A., Rbtirbd,
Military Science and Tactics.
ANDRBW ANDBRSON,
Law.
ARTHUR LUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
ROBBRT LBB GRBBN, Ph. G., *
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
CHARLBS PBTBRSBN, A. M.,
German.
ROLLAND ADBLSPBRGBR, A. B., B. S. A., A. I. A.,
Architecture.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	9
FRANCIS WYNNB KBRVICK, B. S. in Arch.,
Architecture.
KNOWLBS B. SMITH, B. M.,
Mining Engineering.
JAMBS HINBS, Ph. B.,
History.
JOSBPH CALLAHAN, A. M., LL. B.,
Law.
SBUMAS MacMANUS,
Lecturer on English Liter attvre.
:	JBSSB VBRA, M. B., B. B.,
Mathematics.
MAX PAM,
Lecturer on Law.
BDMUND DOLBWCZYNSKI, a/b.,
Polish.
THOMAS STBINBR, C. B.,
Mathematics.
JOHN WORDBN, B. S.,
Freehand Drawing and Modeling.
JOHN F. O’HARA,
Spanish.
FRANCIS POWERS, M. D.,
Attending Physician.
WILLIAM BUDD KELLEY,
Shopuiork.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.
IO
bulletin of the
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
Rev. James French, C. S. C.
Rev. George O’Connor, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
Rev. Walter Lavin, C. S. C.
Rev. Thomas Irving, C. S. C.
Rev. William Bolger, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL
Rev. John Farley, C. S. C.
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell, C. S. C.
Rev. Charles Doremus, C. S. C.
WALSH HALL
Rev. Michael Quinlan, C. S. C.
Rev. Michael Oswald, C. S. C.
Rev. James McManus, C. S. C.
Rev. George McNamara, C. S. C.
BROWNSON HALL
Bro. Alphonsus, C. S. C.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C
' Bro. Casimir, C. S. C.
Bro. Alan, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
Bro. Just, C. S. C.
Bro. Louis, C. S. C.
Bro. Mauritius, C. S. C.
Bro. Aloysius, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C. S. C.
Bro. Florian, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C.	Bro. Bede, C. S. C.
Bro. SYLVANUS, C. S. C.
DUJARIE HALL
Bro. Aidan, C. S. C.	Bro. Joseph, C. S. C
ft
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
v year 1842, by the Very Reverend Md ward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Mari vault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body, corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
t
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as is customary in other
universities in the United States.”
i
12
bulletin or Tur
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS.
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-
halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-
rooms are in this building. The Library and the
Bishops’ Memorial Hall are also here temporarily.
This building, like all the others of the University,
is lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by steam.
The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gr egori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
in ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32
bells and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 55,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
department of literary criticism, history, political
science and the Greek and Latin classics are well rep-
resented. Special libraries containing reference works
on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science. The College of Law has
a complete library of its own. Ample reading room
is provided in the main library. The best literary
magazines and reviews, as well as current numbers
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	13
of scientific and technical journals are kept on file.
Students have access to the Library from 8:oo A. M.
to 9:00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width,
and about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms
of the Department of Music, the reading rooms for
Brownson and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre.
The theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings.
It will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent
in public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also pre-
sented in this theatre. "The dramatic clubs of the
University present several plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall.
Its dimensions are 105 by 131. feet, and it is three
stories in height. A large central space, the full height
of the building, is occupied by a museum containing
mineral, fossil and biological specimens. The de-
partments of Physics, Electrical Engineering, Civil
Engineering, Philosophy, Botany and Biology have
recitation rooms and laboratories in this building.
The equipment for each of these departments is ex-
tensive and complete. Description of the equipment
will be found later in this catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is
well arranged for convenience of study. The sociological
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative ver-
14
bulletin of the
tebrate skeletons forms a considerable part of the
museum.
Facilities for the publication of research on subjects
of natural history are afforded in the pages of the
American Midland Naturalist, which appears bi-monthly
from the laboratory of botany at the University.
The collection in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a
series of cases on each side of the building. In one
series is a carefully classified collection, of minerals
and ores. The opposite series of cases contain a large
geological collection; some of the specimens here
are of the rarest fossil remains of animals and plant
life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture room. The second floor
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and
contains a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern
drug store, a lecture room and museum, a library for
pharmaceutical publications, and a general stock room.
The general inorganic, organic and elementary chemical
laboratories are on the third floor. Bach laboratory
is provided with ample hood accommodations, and
each desk is furnished with water, gas and suction.
THE SHOP
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	15
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop
for wood-work and also contains a well lighted drawing
room where students in designing may consult complete
workings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market.
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Lab-
• oratories and is designed for an equatorial telescope
and for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial
telescope now in the building is intended for students
of astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students
of Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of
the Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room and
a law library. The building is lighted with electricity
and heated with steam. In the basement are rec-
reation rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. * It has
three stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with rec-
reation rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted
with electricity and gas and heated with steam.
WALSH HALL
This newest dormitory building is situated South
of Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions
16	BULLETIN OF TH$
are 230 feet by 41 feet. It faces Bast and all the
front rooms are made up of suites each consisting
of a commodious study room, flanked on either side
by a bedroom. Attached to each suite is a private
bath and toilet. Bach room is supplied with hot
and cold water. The rear rooms are singles and the
general toilet and bath rooms are of hollow, fire-proof
tile, walls and ceilings covered with wire lath and
plaster, making practically a fire proof building. It
is equipped with a distinct system of stand-pipes for
fighting fire. The entire corridor floors are built of
reinforced concrete, covered with Roman ceramic
mosaics. In finish and equipment Walsh Hall is
believed to be the best college dormitory building
in America. It embraces three stories besides the
admirable basement and attic, and it is capable of
accommodating over a hundred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of
age and upwards. There is a common study hall,
a common lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms
in which each student has an alcove curtained to secure
a personal privacy. Bxperience shows that the dis-
cipline of these common rooms works admirable effects
on students who have not yet contracted solid habits
of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Adminis-
tration Building. It is in all respects similar to Brown-
son Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	17
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years
are placed in this hall.
'	ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively
to living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The
conditions for admission to this hall are: (i) The pay-
ment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the
first of August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter.
The waiting in nowise interferes with the student’s
work, and all the educational advantages are open
to him. It is to be regretted that through the lack
of endowment the University can offer only a limited
number of such opportunities each year. It is neces-
sary to apply early for these appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and * three stories in height, contains rooms for
the use of students during illness. The sick are cared
for by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University
physician visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet
on the ground. The track-hall is now 100 by 180
feet on the ground. It is used for indoor meets, winter
baseball practice, basketball and military drill. The
gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with
a full set of apparatus; below that are the offices,
dressing-rooms and shower baths. Friends of the
i8
bulletin oe the
University and the alumni contributed more than
three thousand dollars to the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten
acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. E., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University: Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall,
the Community House, the Presbytery, and Saint
Edward’s Hall, the last-named being a school for
children under the age of thirteen, in care of the Sisters
of the Holy Cross.
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his
own curriculum conformably to his natural liking,
the career in life he may have in view, or the deter-
minate intellectual bent developed during his secondary
school years; but, though he is free to1 elect his own
studies, he has not, however, unlimited freedom in
this respect. The principle of general election is mod-
ified. Test the young Freshman in his inexperience
choose unwisely, he is aided in making his choice of
studies by being permitted to select from among a
number of parallel programs leading to baccalaureate
degrees. Eighteen programs are open for his choice
in the Colleges, each embracing courses which, in the
opinion of the Faculty, contribute best to cultural,
scientific or professional knowledge. These programs
0
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	19
are, in some cases, made elastic by the introduction
of elective courses, especially in the Junior and Senior
years. Students who wish to spend a limited time
in study and can not complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special students
and elect any course for which their preparation has
fitted them.	.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for preparation of recitations. One hour
of recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours
of laboratory work. The minimum number of credit
hours which a student must carry, except in his Senior
year, is sixteen, the maximum number which he may
ordinarily carry is twenty. Students who wish to
take more work than is indicated by the maximum
requirements must apply by formal petition to the
Faculty for the requisite permission.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by
a properly attested certificate, of ability’ to enter on
the courses of the Freshman year. The specific sub-
jects required for entrance will be found later in this
catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for ad-
mission to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, at the beginning of the Fall Term and in
February, at the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory exami-
nations in one or more of the subjects required for
admission to any college program may, at the dis-,
cretion of the Faculty, be admitted to his class con-
9
20
BULLETIN5* OF THE
ditioned, to make up his deficiency by extra study
within one school year. Only when the conditions
are removed will the student be admitted to full stand-
ing in his class.
Students who have completed a four year course
in High Schools or Preparatory Schools of recognized
standing will be admitted without examination to
the Freshman year of any program to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing
who are required to take examinations must pass,
in addition to the usual entrance examinations, an
examination in the work already done by the classes
they desire to enter. The additional subjects may
be found in the several programs of studies described
later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present
certificates from other colleges or universities may
be received at the discretion of the Faculty with or
without examination as regards particular cases.
No students will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.

i

M
Cl
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIOUS COLLEGES IN SUBJECTS AND UNITS
COLLEGES
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
SUBJECTS	ARTS		LETTERS*		SCIENCE	ENGINEERING	ARCHITECTURE	LAW	
	Units		Units		Units	Units.	Units	Units	
English	 Eatin	 Greek			4	 	4				4	 	4				4	 ■9	••••-4				4	 .. 2 or 4.. . .	
French or German	 History		o			3	 O		o		3			3			st	 	2	.... .	
A-luebra		T		T		.... I ... .	.. . . i%.. ..	.... i x • ■ • •	T	
Geometry		T		T			. . . .i%,. ..	■. . . . rX- • • •	T	
Trigonometry						IZ		X- • • •		X- • • •		
Chemistry							T	T	T		
		T			T						T
Phvsics						T	T		I			
Botany, Physiology, Zoology, Physiography.... Drawing					>•					
	J		J			%. . . .	.... x		.... x		J	
Elective							T	T		3		
									
Total		....16			. . . . 16			. . . . 16		....16		. . . . t6		. . . - T 6. . . .	
									
' * Including Department of Letters and Department of History and Economics.
t Four units of language required. J For admission to the Colleges of Arts and Letters and Law one unit of Science is required
22
bulletin of the
DEGREES
Degrees • are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by
the University will be found described in this cat-
alogue. Written theses and formal examinations are
demanded of all candidates for degrees. One full
scholastic year of resident study is absolutely required,
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through-
out the four scholastic years. In the College of Arts
and Letters one of three degrees is conferred on an
undergraduate—Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of
Letters (Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.)—
dependent on the special program of studies the can-
didate selects. The College of Science offers six de-
grees for choice to undergraduates—Bachelor of Science
(B. S.), Bachelor of Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.),
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Bachelor
of Science in Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.), Graduate in
Pharmacy (Ph. G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.).
The College of Engineering offers five degrees—Civil
Engineer (C. E.)> Mechanical Engineer (M. E-), Elec-
trical Engineer (E. E.), mining Engineer (E. M.),
and Chemical Engineer (Ch. E.). Two degrees are
offered by the College of Architecture—Bachelor of
Science in Architecture (B. S. A.), and Bachelor of
Science in Architectural Engineering (B. S. A. E.).
The College of Law offers the degree of Bachelor of
Laws (LL. B.). In the College of Music one degree
is offered—Bachelor of Music (B. M.). In order to
obtain this degree the candidate must have, studied
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	23
music in the University for one complete year. He
must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of four
instruments mentioned in the courses described later,
and a practical mastery of one of them. He shall
pass a written examination in harmony, counter-
point and composition, and he must submit to the
examiner two original compositions: (a) a fugue for
full orchestra, or for four voices with independent
orchestral accompaniment: (b) a composition in the
free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a trio
(pianoforte, violin and violincello.) ‘
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one
complete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who
make application' to the Committee of the Faculty
on Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing ad-
vanced work. All work must be approved by this
Committee. One year of residence, at least, is re-
quired of candidates who have received their Bachelor’s
degree at another college. Those who have received
their Bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in
some cases to be determined by the Committee, obtain
the Master’s degree for work done in absentia* One
major and one or two minor courses will constitute
the curriculum, forming a consistent coordinated
plan of advanced work pursued with some definite
aim. On completion of the required work the candidate
* No degree is conferred in honor em except the degree of
Doctor of Eaws (I/L. D.)
24	7 BULLETIN OB THE z
must pass a satisfactory examination in writing, under
the professors who 'give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a dis-
sertation of notable merit on some topic connected
with his major subject, the thesis to contain in the
minimum five thousand words. The subject of the
thesis must be announced to the Committee by December
i, and submitted for examination by May 15. Five
printed or typewritten copies of the thesis must be
presented to the University to be placed in the library.
The fee for examination of work done in absentia is
twenty-five dollars. The fee for this degree is fixed
at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity work before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these must be spent at Notre Dame
• and one may be passed at some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactorily ex-
aminations in French and German on entrance. The
work for the degree shall consist of one major and two
minor courses of instruction approved by the Committee.
. Research study shall form the most important part
of the candidate’s work. On completion of his work
the candidate must pass minute examinations • on the
three subjects of his curriculum' and must defend his
dissertation before the whole Faculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies
presented to ,the University. A copy of the thesis
must be handed to the Committee one month before
the examinations. The degree will not be conferred
for merely faithful work, and not for miscellaneous
study, but for original research and for high attain-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
25
ment in one branch of study. The fee for this degree
is fixed at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who, do not wish to become candidates
for a degree by following the prescribed courses of
any program may register as special students and
attend any of the courses of instruction for which
their previous academic training has fitted them.
Such special students are governed by the same regu-
lations and discipline as the other undergraduates.
They are required to pass the same examinations in
the courses they pursue as the other students. In
exceptional cases men of mature age, who have been
out of school or college for several years, but whose
training in practical affairs has been, sufficiently
educative, will be accepted as special students by
satisfying the Faculty of their ability to pursue with
profit any course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may
receive on application certificates stating their pro-
ficiency in the courses they have pursued.
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has at present only four foundations
which yield revenues for the support and tuition of
four students annually. Assignment of these scholar-
ships is made under restrictions indicated with each
gift. No student will be continued in the enjoyment
of a scholarship whose superiority in college work is
not clearly indicated in his first year of residence.
Nor will a student who has incurred serious censure
by breach of the regulations of the University be con-
sidered again as a candidate for a scholarship.
26
BULLITT IN OF TH$
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of endow-
ment makes it impossible for the University to give
place to a greater number of deserving students who
are not able to pay the charges of board and tuition.
Under conditions indicated on page 17 of this catalogue
a limited number of deserving student-waiters can
be received at reduced rates. Certain clerkships in
the University offices and positions in the libraries
are also open to worthy students. Information re-
garding the assignment of these places will be furnished
by the President. The University is doing all in its
power to assist students in narrow circumstances.
The friends of Notre Dame are asked to assist in this
work.
THE JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Bdward Johnson, of Watertown, Wis-
consin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the income
of which aids in the support of one student annually.
By the terms of the gift assignment is made only to
a student who intends to enter the priesthood. '
' ' THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
The Reverend Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Penn-
sylvania, bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899.
The terms of the bequest specify that the income shall
be used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Tord, of Chicago, gave to
the University certain properties for the maintenance
of worthy students. The income arising from this
gift now supports fully two students annually. By
the wish of the donor nominations for these scholar-
ships are made from St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
27
*	PRIZES
The following prizes and honors within the gift
of the University are awarded annually under con-
ditions named below. Any of these prizes may be
withheld by the Faculty if the student incur serious
censure for violating any of the regulations of the
University.	"	.
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who
has obtained the best record in the Senior year of the
Classical Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. William
J. Quan, of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition
that the record of the student is notably good in all
the courses of instruction prescribed for the Senior
year.
THE MASON MEDAL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of Chi-
cago, is awarded each year to the student of the Pre-
paratory School whose scholastic record is superior
to that of his fellows. Observance of the University
regulations counts in the award. The prize may be
withheld if in the opinion of the Faculty the record
of the student has not reached a high standard.
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan,
of Covington, Ky., is awarded every year to the Senior
(undergraduate) who presents the best dissertation
in English. Essays offered in competition may be
on any subject approved by the head of the Depart-
ment of English. Those offered for graduation may
be presented in competition. The faculty will not
award the prize, if, in the opinion of the judges selected,
the best essay is not notably meritorious.
28
BULLETIN OF THE
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
Breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded
to the student who excels in oratory. The award is
made by a committee of three selected by the faculty
and after a public competition. The winner repre-
sents the University in the Indiana State Oratorical
Contest held the third Friday in every February. No
student may receive the Breen Medal more than once,
but the winner of this prize may compete again for
the honor of representing the University in the State
Contest.
There is also a ten-dollar prize offered for the winners
of the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Preparatory
contests in oratory.
THE MARTIN J. McCUE MEDAL FOR
CIVIL ENGINEERING
The McCue Medal for Civil Engineering, presented
by Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the Class
of ’87, is awarded to the student of the Department of
Civil Engineering who has obtained the best record in
all the courses prescribed in the program. The medal is
awarded only when the student’s record has attained a
fixed standard. In computing the grades the courses in
mathematics count fifty per cent. Only students
who have been in residence for four full years are
eligible to compete for this prize.
THE MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Lyons Medal
and the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every
year for excellence in elocution. The award is made
after competition in public. In order to be eligible
to compete, students must have followed at least
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
29
two of the courses of instruction in public speaking.
One of the medals was founded in memory of Professor
Joseph A. Lyons, of the Class of ’62, who served the
University as Professor of Elocution and Oratory
from 1872 to 1888. The other is a gift of Mr. Patrick
T. Barry, of Chicago. .
THE PRIZE FOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to three
students who, in the opinion of a committee of judges
from without the Faculty, excel in debating. The
award is made after a competition in public. The
prize is divided, thirty dollars going to the student
who receives the highest marks, twenty-five dollars,
to the second, and twenty dollars to the third. The
three students who are successful in the competition
ordinarily represent the University in the principal
inter-collegiate debate of the year.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing
will be sent to parents and guardians quarterly.
The Faculty maintains that an education which
gives little attention to the development of the moral
part of' a youth’s character is pernicious, and that
it is impossible to bring about this development where
students are granted absolute relaxation from all
Faculty government while outside the class-room.
A young man must learn obedience to law by the actual
practice of obedience. Here students are required
to obtain permission for any departure from the regular
daily routine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
30
BULLETIN OB THE
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are enforced at the University.
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Master.
3.	Students are required to report at the Uni-
versity immediately after arriving at South Bend.
This rule is binding not only at the beginning of the
scholastic year, but at all other times when leave of
absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in
South Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of
rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating
in examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, im-
morality, the use of profane and obscene .language,
and an unauthorized absence from the University
limits are among the causes for expulsion. In case
of suspension or expulsion for such offences, no fee
shall be returned.
5.	The use of cigarettes is strictly forbidden, a
second offence being punished by suspension for one
month.
6.	No branch of study shall be taken up or dis-
continued without the consent of the Director of
Studies.
7.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brown-
son, Carroll or St. Kdward’s Hall according to age;
boys seventeen years of age or older are placed in
Brownson Hall; those over thirteen and uhder seven-
teen, in Carroll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St.
Mdward’s Hall.
8.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
31
students of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls
as have received from their parents written permission
to use tobacco.
9.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin,
Corby or Walsh Halls leads to forfeiture of rooms.
10.	Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
"Catholic institution, and all students are required
to attend divine service in the University Church at
stated times.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense
of study will not be permitted; but students are ex-
pected to take part in outdoor sports.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is per-
mitted with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
of professionalism.	*
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members
of the Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve
the right of a final decision on all questions concern-
ing athletics. The Faculty Board will determine
the amateur standing of the members of the athletic
teams and apportion the finances. By this means
indiscreet and unconsidered action of students will
be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have ad-
dressed the University in the past few years may
be noted four Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli,
32
BULLETIN OB THE
Martinelli, and Falconio and Monsignor Agius; Arch-
bishops Ireland, Riordan, Keane, Glennon, Christie and
Spalding; and Bishops Alerding, McQuaid, Maes, Mul-
doon, O’Gorman, Shanley and MacSherry. There were
also such noted European churchmen as the Abbe Felix
Klein, Bishop John S. Vaughan and the fore-
most of living English historians, Dom Gasquet; also
men of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford, Marion Craw-
ford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van Dyke, Seumas
MacManus, William Butler Yeats, James Jeffrey Roche,
Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read, Leland Powers,
Henry James and the Rev. John Talbot Smith; and
such men of affairs as President Taft, ex-Vice-Pres-
ident Fairbanks, ex-Senator Hill, ex-Senator Beveridge,
ex-Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, ex-
Representative J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William
P. Breen, Representative Bourke Cochran, Dr. James
C. Monaghan, Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward
McDermott, His Excellency Wu ting Fang, William
Jennings Bryan, Senator B. F. Shively, Max Pam,
Governor J. Harmon, Hannis Taylor and Chief-Justice
Fitzpatrick of Canada.
Concerts are given frequently by organizations
from without.
During the year 1911-12 the University offered a
course of public lectures and concerts in Washington
Hall, in addition to the regular and special lectures
required by the courses of instruction. The course
was as follows:
DRAMATICS
DEC. 6. (President’s Day)—“The Redemption of Jimmie
Anson.”—University Dramatic Club.
20. Student Vaudeville.
Mar. 19. “The King of the Kilts.”—Philopatrians.
Apr. 8. “The Rise of Peter McCabe.”—Senior Class.
May 15. Student Vaudeville.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
33
CONCERTS
Sept. 18.	Elbel’s Band.
19.	“ “
20.	rc	ct »
21.	“ “
Oct. 3.	Bruno Steindel Trio.
Nov. 2.	Cambrian National Glee Singers.
Jan. 9.	Good Fellows Company.
20.	Detroit String Quartette.
24.	Sol Marcosson Company.
Frb. 24.	International Opera Company.
Mar. 23.	Bostonia Sextette.
Apr. 24.	The Plectrio.—Instrumentalists.
LECTURES
Oct. i 8. Newman Travelogue.—“Rural England and the
Coronation of George Fifth.”
19.	Readings from his Poems.—T. A. Daly.
24.	“Reminiscences of Men and Movements.”—Fred-
erick Wile.
25.	Newman Travelogue.—“Scotland and Wales.”
Nov. 1. Newman Travelogue.—“Ireland.”
4.	Opie Read—Readings from his books.
6. “An Old Time University Man.”—Dr. James J.
Walsh.
8.	“A Modern University Man.”—Dr. James J. 'Walsh.
8.	Newman Travelogue.”—“Germany from the Black
Forest to Hamburg.”	‘
9.	Ross Crane.—Cartoonist. ,
11.	“Babylonia.”—Dr. Edgar J. Banks.
15.	Newman Travelogue.—“Russia from the Black Sea
to the Baltic.”
16.	“The Gaelic Revival.”—Rev. M. 0’Flanagan.
18.	“Bismya.”—Dr. Edgar J. Banks.
21.	“Journalism.”—Mr. George Griswold Hill.
25.	“Egypt.”—Dr. Edgar J. Banks.	'
28.	“The Boy Problem.”—Judge Dee S. Estelle.
D$c. 2. “Persia.”—Dr. Edgar J. Banks.	.
9. “India.”—Dr. Edgar J. Banks.
16. “The Hittites.”—Dr. Edgar J. Banks.
34
BULLETIN OF THB
Jan. 13. “The South,the Old and the New.”—Gov. R. JB. Glinn.
Fi$b. 3. S. Landon.—Impersonator.
27. Charlemagne Koehler.—Miscellaneous Readings.
27. Leland T. Powers.—“Monsieur Beaucaire.”
Mar. 26. “South American Trade Relations.”—Hon. John
W. O'Hara.
Apr. 16. “The Music Master.”—Arthur Kachel, Reader.
23. “Leonardo da Vinci.”—Dr. James J. Walsh.
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies
in the University which do such creditable work at
their meetings and in preparation for them that their
work takes oh the nature of added courses of instruction.
In each society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser.
An Inter-Hall League has been formed and public
debates are held annually. The College of Law also
has an active debating club. The training in public
speaking has always received special attention at
the University. In seventeen public debates with other
universities and colleges Notre Dame has but once
met defeat—the decision of the judges in the greater
number of these debates being unanimous. The Uni-
versity Dramatic Club and the Philopatrian Society
stage at least three plays annually for presentation in
public. The University Band, the University Orchestra
and the University Glee Club also appear regularly
in concerts.
Students of the Department of Civil and Electrical
Engineering have each a society in which papers on
engineering subjects are read and discussed. Men
prominent in their profession are invited to lecture
to these societies. The Pharmaceutical Society meets
to discuss subjects of interest in the world of pharmacy.
In other departments where no such formal organ-
ization has been effected similar results are reached
by seminars.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	35
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).$ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linen, per school year...............   400.00
PAYABLE ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)..........$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition................. 250.00
xUse of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the
year............................................ 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course....	5.00
Spending money or orders for clothing will not be given
students unless a deposit has been made for this purpose.
In this First Payment must also be included any Extra
Expense the student may wish to incur, such as charges for
Private 'Room or Special Courses (listed below).
PAYABLE ON JANUARY 15
Balance on Board* and Tuition..................  .$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time of absence at the opening
of the Terms, September and February. The charge of $400.00
covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic
Year. The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for Tuition
during the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole
or part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the
fundamental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby
brought to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving
and absenting himself from the University at any time or for
any cause without proper permission. However, an exception
is made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home
because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not be
conferred on any student whose account with the University
has not been settled.
3$
bulletin or the
OPTIONAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE
For the Scholastic Year:
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free, but a nominal
charge of $i 5.00 is made to defray expenses connected
with the care of rooms; Freshmen. . . .$50.00 and upwards
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made
only to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions;
that is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the
Preparatory and Freshman work, otherwise regular rent will
be charged for rooms. Similarly, only unconditioned Fresh-
men are allowed the special rate quoted above.
Preparatory Students...........$80.00 and upwards.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular courses of the programs they have entered,
a any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Scholastic Year,- payable in advance. The charges are pro
rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
on Piano and use of Instru-	Cornet, Clarinet or Man-
ment...............$60.00	dolin................. 30.00
Use of Piano for Advanced	Lessons on Violin... 60.00
Students...........$30.00	*Use of each instrument	5.00
Telegraphy............25.00	Artistic Drawing.... 25.00
Typewriting, Full Course 20.00	Elocution, Special Courseio.oo
One month.......... 5.00	“Scholastic”—College
Phonography....'..... 15.00 Paper.................. ’	1.50
Applied Electricity.... 25.00	Library Fee............ 5.00
Vocal Culture........ 75.00	Physical Culture.... 5.00
Laboratory fees listed later in this catalogue.
GRADUATION FEE
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00; Com-
mercial Course, $5.00.
* As the string and band instruments available for rent are few, students
taking up these studies are advised to furnish their own instruments.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
37
REMARKS
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid 'within ten days after they have been rendered.
The Entrance Tees, cost of Books, Music and Eaboratory
Fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post - office money
order kor express, payable to- the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will
be charged in all cases.
Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed
during the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend
their Summer Vacation under the care of the University author-
ities can be accommodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jos6 Park is $100.00. Classes
{two hours per day} are included in this arrangement. Special
tutoring at professors’ rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at
reduced rates. For conditions of entrance see paragraph en-
titled St. Joseph’s Hall, page 17.
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
DEPARTMENT OF LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY AND ECONOMICS
DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
39
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
establishment of the College of Science in 1865, only one
program of prescribed courses of instruction leading
to a degree was offered to undergraduate students.
It embraced studies in the ancient and modern languages,
in Bnglish literature, in history, the natural sciences
and in mathematics. Graduate students might ob-
tain a degree of master by advanced study one year
after obtaining the Bachelor’s degree. The group
of courses was known as the Program of Classics,
and the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts
were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of
election in courses led the University in 1886 and again
in 1898 to form other programs which embraced certain
studies not contained in the Program of Classics, but
which lead to degrees equivalent to the degree of Bach-
elor of Arts. In the matter of election of courses
the student is permitted greater freedom in the pro-
gram leading to the degree of Bachelor of Letters than
in either of the other groups. The degrees now under
charge of the College of Arts and Letters are the ordi-
nary degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Letters,
Bachelor of Philosophy and Master of Arts.
The location of the University offers special ad-
vantages of study. It is situated on a beautiful tract
where cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the
noisy bustle of city life. This removal from the dis-
tractions of the town gives the students opportunity
to pursue their work with the quiet and concentration
needed for earnest study. Nearly all the Faculty
live on the grounds of the University, dine with the
students, and are accessible to them at any time.
40
bulletin of the
The benefits derived from this constant association
with professors can not be overestimated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and
laboratories. The main library has fifty-five thousand
bound volumes well selected and several thousand
pamphlets and manuscripts. The leading literary and
scientific reviews are kept on file. Books may be
borrowed under easy regulations. The library con-
tains ample reading room space and is well lighted so
that students may use it at night. It is open every
day from 8:oo o’clock A. M. to 9:00 P. M. There
are also special collections of books in the various
departments of the College, mainly works of reference.
Under certain conditions the city library of South
Bend is open to use by students of the University.
The department of experimental psychology occupies
a suite of three rooms on the ground floor of Science
Hall. The use of a dark room and a silent room may
also be had when need requires. The equipment includes
apparatus and material sufficient for repeating all
the exercises in Sanford’s Manual, and most of the
exercises in Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Volume
I. The laboratory is supplied with hot and cold water,
gas and electricity. At the beginning of the course,
the aim is to give students a wide acquaintance with
such familiar apparatus as the chronoscope, kymo-
graph, plethysomograph, automatograph, primeter,
campimeter, tone variator, Galton whistle, Galton
bar, etc. For the study of special perceptions, there
is a set of stereoscopes, pseudoscopes, and accom-
panying slides. Provision is also made for the in-
vestigation of pressure, temperature, pain, taste, smell
and muscular sensation. Experiments in the field
of auditory perception are facilitated by three sets
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	41
of organ pipes, a set of Koenig’s movable tuning
forks and resonators, and various kinds of metronomes.
For the study of physiological psychology, a complete
set of models of the nervous system is at hand, to-
gether with microscopic slides of the various parts
of the brain and spinal cord.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Fngeish. Part of the examination time is given
for answering' questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in the preparatory courses in Fnglish;
the remainder, for writing an essay.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Cataline;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translations at sight of
passages from Cicero and Caesar; translations of
Fnglish into Latin based on the text of the authors.
Greek. {For students in the Department of Classics
only) Grammar, etymology and general rules of syntax;
Xenophon, Anabasis, four Books; Homer, at least
three books; prose composition based on text.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines
of Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and
Modern History, as set out in the texts used in high
schools and other secondary schools.
Civie Government. The- Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Aegebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane’ .and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and. numerical examples
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, New-
comb, or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
42
BULLETIN ok the
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-
book or an equivalent treatise.
Zoology, Botany. Elementary.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equiv-
alent text.
*
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in which
at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation in this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book
similar to Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory
work is required. In both chemistry and physics the
laboratory note-book must be presented.
Trench and German. A three years’ course of
either German or Trench is required for entrance on
the Program in Letters and the Program in History
and Economics.
Subjects required for entrance to Treshman year of
the Department of:
CLASSICS
English...................4
Latin.....................4
Greek.....................3
Mathematics...............2
History...................2
Science..................1
LETTERS
English...................4
Latin.....................4
Trench or German..........3
xj
Mathematics...............2
History...................2
Science.....................
* HISTORY AND ECONOMICS
English. . ..............4
Latin....................4
Trench or German.........3
History..................2
Mathematics..............2
Science..................1
JOURNALISM
English...................4
Latin, Trench or German... 6
History.....................
Mathematics...............2
Science.....................
Elective..................t
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
43
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page 1	Course			Page	Course
Latin	5	161	I	Latin	5	161	I
Greek	4	156	I	Greek	4	156	I ,
English.	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
History	4	158	I	History	4	158	I
Elocution $	i	151	III	Elocution	1	151	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Latin *	5	162	II	Latin	5	162	II
Greek •	4	156	II	Greek	4	156	II
Philosophy	4	178	I	Philosophy	4	178	I
English	3	152	II	English	3	152	II
Elocution	1	152	VIII	Elocution	1	152	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Latin	5	162	III	Latin	5	162	III
Greek	4	156	III	Greek	4	156	III
Philosophy	4'	179	II	Philosophy	4	179	II
English	3	152	III	. English	3	152	III
Elocution	1	151	VI	Elocution	1	151	VI
SENIOR year
Latin	4	162	IV	Latin	4	162	IV
Greek	4	i57	IV	Greek	4	i57	IV
Philosophy	4	179	III	Philosophy	4	179	III
English	3	153	IV	English	3	153	IV
Elocution	1	151	VII	Elocution	3	151	VII .
44
bulletin of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF LETTERS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page	Course
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
Latin or	5	161	I	Latin or	5	161	I
Elec five	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	. 187	II	French or	5	187	II
German	5	156	II	German	5	156	II
History	4	158	I	History	4	158	I
Elocution	i	151	III	Elocution	1	151	' IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English	3	152	II	English	3	152	II
Philosophy	4	178	I	Philosophy	4	178	I
Latin or	5	162	II	Latin or	5	162	II
Elective	5			Elective	5		
French or	5	188	III	French or	5	188	III
German	5	156	III	German	5	156	III
History	3	158	II	History	3	158	II
Elocution	1	152	VIII	Elocution	1	152	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	152	III	English	3	152	III
Latin or	5	162	III	Latin or	5	162	III
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	179	II	Philosophy	4	179	II
History	4	158	III	History	4	158	III
Elocution	1	151	VI	Elocution	1	151	VI
SENIOR YEAR
English	3	i53	IV	English	3	153	IV
Latin or	4	162	IV	Latin or	4	162	IV
Elective	5			Elective	5		
Philosophy	4	179	III	Philosophy	4	179	III
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Elocution	1	151	VII	Elocution	1	151	VII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB TOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page,	Course			Page	Course
History	4	158	I	History	4.	158	I
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
French or	5	187	II	French ©r	5	187	II
German	5	156	II	German	5	156	II
Polit. Science	4	184	I	Polit. Science	4	184	I
Elocution	i	151	III	Elocution	1	151	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
History	4	158	II	History	4	158	II
Polit. Science	4	184	II	Polit. Science	4	.185	Illa
Philosophy	4	178	I	Philosophy	4	178	I
English	3	'152	II	English	3	152	II
German or	4	156	III	German or	4	156	III
French	4	188	III	French	4	188	III
Elocution	1	152	VIII	Elocution	1	152	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	152	III	English	3	152	III
Polit. Science	4	185	Illb	Polit. Science	4	185	IV
Philosophy	4	179	II	Philosophy	4	179	II
History	4	158	III	History .	4	158	III
Elocution	1	151	VI	Elocution	1	151	VI
SENIOR YEAR.
History	3	i59	IV	History	3	159	IV
Political				Political	4	186	VIII
Science	4	186	V, VI III	Science	2	186	VII
Philosophy	4	179		Philosophy	4	179	III
English	3	152	III	English	3	152	IV
Elocution	1	151	VII	Elocution	1	I5i	VII
46
BULLETIN OF THF
THE DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM
Special attention is called to the fact that early
in the year 1912 Mr. Max Pam of Chicago established
a Chair of Journalism in the University and made possi-
ble a special program of studies leading to the degree
of Bachelor of Philosophy in Journalism. The program
is outlined on the next page.
In accordance with Mr. Pam’s purpose in founding
this chair, the program is designed to prepare young
men technically for Journalism and at the same time
equip them with the essentials of a liberal education.
It is hoped that graduates of this course will have
acquired such familiarity with the practical work
of newspaper making as will render 'their services imme-
diately valuable; at the same time they are required to
be well grounded not only in the ethics of their pro-
fession but in general philosophy, in language study,
in the principles of economics and in world politics
as well as the particular currents in the national life
of our own country.
The entrance requirements are practically the same
as for the other departments in the college of Arts
and Letters, but the Director of Studies shall have
power to admit as a special student any young man
who is believed capable of profiting by the work of the
course.
Practical experience in newspaper work will be fur-
nished by the course itself. There are opportunities
for experience as local correspondents of the large
newspapers in Chicago, 'Detroit, Indianapolis and other
cities. The Scholastic, a weekly publication, founded
in 1867 and issued at the University, affords excellent
opportunity for editorial writing and department
work.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	47
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN JOURNALISM.
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Journalism	0	160	I	Journalism	2	160	I
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
Pol. Science	4	I84	I	Pol. Science	4	I84	I
History	4	158	I	History	4	158	I
French or	5	187	II	I French or	5	187	- II
German	5	156	II	German	5	156	II
Elocution	1	151	III	Elocution	1	151	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Journalism	5	161	II	1 Journalism	5	161	II
English	3	152	II	English	3	152	II
Pol. Science	4	184	II	Pol. Science	4	185	Illa
Philosophy	4	178	I	Philosophy	4	178	I
History	3	158	II	History	3	158	II
Elocution	1	152	VIII	Elocution	1	152	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Journalism	5	161	III	Journalism	5	161	III
English	3	152	III	English	3	152	III
Pol. Science	4	185	Hlb	Pol. Science	4	185	IV
Philosophy	4	179	II	Philospohy	4	179	II
History	4	159	IV	History	4	159	IV
Elocution	1 1	I151	1 vi	Elocution	1	151	| VI
SENIOR YEAR
Journalism	5	161	IV	Journalism	5	161	IV
Law (elements)	3			Pol. Science	2	186	VII
Pol. Science	4	185	V, VI	Pol. Science	4	186	VIII
Philosophy	4	179	III	Philosophy	4	179	III
Elocution	■	1 r5i	| VII	Elocution	1	151	VII
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME	49
a
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The College of Science was established as a distinct
department of the University in 1865. The cur-
riculum of the student was largely elective for the
three succeeding years, but in 1867 there was formed
the group of prescribed courses now xknown as the
Program of General Science. Six programs are now
offered to undergraduate students. The degrees under
charge of the Faculty in this college are the ordinary
degrees of Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science
in Biology, Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Bachelor
of Science in. Pharmacy, Graduate in Pharmacy and
Pharmaceutical Chemist. The Master’s degree is con-
ferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Biology occupies the second
floor of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture
rooms and laboratories well ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for graduate
students. The lecture rooms are furnished with charts
and models necessary in teaching the different courses.
The arrangement of windows is such that the room
can be easily darkened so that stereopticon and lantern
slides on the subject of botany, zoology and physi-
ology may be used. The laboratories are equipped
with compound and dissecting microscopes. In each
room there is a library of works of reference pertain-
ing to biological subjects. The general laboratory
$
of microscopy, histology and embryology is supplied
with compound microscopes and the equipments in-
dispensable in these courses. The zoological collection
fills sixteen large cases and represents typical forms
50
bulletin of the
of all the orders and genera of vertebrate and inver-
tebrate animals.
For work in anatomy, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of
the human body, which can be taken apart for close
study. Besides there are several mounted and' un-
mounted human skeletons. Students pursuing courses
in human anatomy at the University study under a
practicing surgeon and have the privilege of attend-
ing surgical clinics in St. Joseph Hospital of South
Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in Thorough
and careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the
others is a laboratory of photo-micography which
contains a perfect photo-micographic instrument for
experimentation, photographing microscopic objects,
making lantern slides, etc. A large and fully equipped
dark room adjoins this laboratory.
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORY
The Botanical Laboratory occupies the northwest
end of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly
well adapted to microscopical and histological work.
The department is supplied with the usual requisites
of a working laboratory such as compound microscopes
and accompaniments for each student, the utensils
and apparatus necessary for embedding by the paraffin,
celoiden, soap methods, and mounting of preparations
by the balsam, Venetian turpentine and glycerine
methods. There are besides, microtomes, camera’
lucida, micrometers and aquaria for plant cultures so
that the typical algae and fungi may be had alive
for laboratory use in all stages of development through-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
51
out the year. Special devices for the regulating and
modifying of artificial light are at hand enabling the
student to work on dark as well as clear days. Ad-
vanced students are supplied with Abbe condenser
and oil immersion lenses. The - laboratory is well
stocked with histological material, and nearly all
the types of common plant families of the phanero-
gamia and cryptogamia are preserved after proper
fixing. The material for demonstration of the fresh
water algae is particularly good and abundant. The
supply of material in Venetian turpentine and glycerine
is valuable, as it supplies permanent mounts in a few
minutes’ work. There are also hundreds of specimens
of rare and common types in paraffin. A herbarium
containing over ten thousand species of flowering
plants supplies the needs of the classes in systematic
botany. The collection includes plants from all parts
of the United States and Canada,—the Pacific coast
and the Southern States are especially well represented.
Besides there is a large collection of fungi, marine algae,
mosses, a large collection of several hundred species
of myxomycetes from the pastern and Central States,
also nearly a thousand specimens of lichens from all
parts of the United States and Burope. The latter
herbarium is well stocked with the local flora, and
special facilities are on hand for the study of the com-
positae. In the museum are found specimens of Amer-
ican and tropical woods and fruits. The laboratory
for more advanced work accommodates about twenty-
five students. It is supplied with eight working tables
covered with plate glass or soapstone, and each place
is supplied with lock and key. The lecture room in
botany is on the second floor of the building and has
a seating capacity of seventy-five.
bulletin or THE
52
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated in
the southeastern part of the grounds and is a large
three story structure devoted entirely to chemistry.
On the third floor are a small stock room and the two
laboratories for general and industrial chemistry,
one capable of accommodating one hundred and fifty
students, the other seventy. The desks are all supplied
with gas, water, suction and the necessary reagents.
On the side tables are general stock and general ap-
paratus, and conveniently placed are small stands
for suction and blast lamps supplied with gas, air blast,
acetylene. On the third floor also is the large fan
for drawing gases from the hoods, with which all the
laboratories are supplied. In the middle floor are
the main stock rooms where supplies can be obtained
by the students. Here also are the laboratories, lecture-
room, drug store, library and museum of the Depart-
ment of Pharmacy. On the first floor are the labora-
tories for qualitative and quantitative analysis with
desks to accommodate sixty-five students, and fitted
with gas, suction, water and blast. Large hood accom-
modations are available and can be utilized to ad-
vantage because of the perfect ventilation produced
by the large fans on the top floor. Two small side
tables are equipped with air blasts, ordinary gas and
acetylene. To the east of these laboratories are those
for physical and electro-chemistry and special work
such as food analysis, iron and steel analysis, gas an-
alysis, etc. The equipment in these laboratories is
quite complete. Adjoining these laboratories is a
small dark room for spectroscopic and polariscopic
analysis. A large lecture room to accommodate a
hundred and ten students is in the south end of the
first floor. It is provided with apparatus for stereop-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
53
ticon illustrations-, storage batteries, cylinders of oxygen,
carbon dioxide and a complete set of charts illustrative
of the processes employed in modern chemical in-
dustries. Two laboratories adjoin, one for general
organic analysis, the other for special advanced work.
Two wings extend from the main building,—one con-
tains the vacuum and pressure tanks, the acetylene
and gasoline gas generators, the other the balance
rooms, in which are the analytical and assay balances
sensitive to the one ten-thousandth of a gramme,
and the library of the Department. ;The library
contains besides the works of reference on chemistry,
the principal chemical journals on file—Berichte, Zen-
tralblatt, the Chemical News, the Journal of the Amer-
ican Chemical Society, the Journal of the British Chemical
Society, the Journal' of Chemical Engineering, the
Journal of Chemical Industries, etc. In the large
hallway are cases containing a steadily increasing
collection of minerals, chemicals, designed as illus-
trations of the substances and processes discussed
in the lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are
in a wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas
and fuel furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead
ores,- and also tables for blow pipe analysis. A large
collection of minerals and ores serve to illustrate the
processes.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The Department of Physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science
Hall and three laboratories in the basement. The
lecture room will accommodate seventy-five students.
For the work in mechanics there is the force table,
inclined planes, Geneva cathetometer, capable of
54
bulletin of the
measuring to one twenty-five thousandth of an inch,
a large physical balance, standard ‘kilogram, a standard
metre, a dividing engine made by the Geneva society,
an Atwood’s machine, a compound pendulum, a break
circuit recording chronograph, a powerful hydraulic
press with attachments, rotary air pumps and re-
ceivers, a large clock with electrical contact pieces,
several self-winding clocks, mercury barometers and
two aneroid barometers.
For the wdrk in acoustics there are a Mercadier
radiophone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electric-
ally operated tuning forks by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig
phonautograph, an Edison phonograph of earliest type,
several sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a large
double siren, a set of very small tuning forks producing
the highest audible sounds, a set of resonators mounted
together with capsules of sensitive flames arranged
for the analysis of complex sounds, a set of Koenig’s
movable tuning forks to draw compound curves, on
smoked glass, three sets of organ pipes, four sets of
fine tuning forks, a set of apparatus for manometric
observation of sound phenomena, a large tuning fork
producing the lowest audible sound, an electric metro-
nome, a set of mounted tuning forks carrying small
mirrors arranged to perform Lissajou’s experiment,
producing complex curves.
For the work in light there are a complete set of appa-
* ratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the wave
lengths of light by various interference methods, a set
of polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a polariza-
tion saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for gas
or electric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large Nicol’s
prisms mounted, a large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum, two Rowland gratings
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
55
14,000 lines to the inch, a set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland, several cameras with lenses and
attachments, a “well-equipped dark-room for photo-
graphic work, and a photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
thermometers, air thermometers, a steam engine indica-
tor, several calorimeters, apparatus for determining the
coefficient of linear expansion using. the optical lever
method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
absolute electrometer, a Holz machine and apparatus
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,
six bridges of different types, several, ammeters and
volt-meter, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard
resistance coils, a historical set of motors showing
evolution of the modern machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type, ten galvanometers of various
types, a complete X-ray outfit, sets of apparatus for
wireless telegraphy.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
English. Part of the examination is given for answer-
ing questions upon the text-books and readings required
in the regular preparatory courses in English; the re-
*
mainder for writing an essay.
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-door
or an equivalent treatise.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equiv-
alent treatise.	'
Zoology, Botany. Elementary.
Civil Government. The American Constitution;
Federal and State Governments.
bulletin oe the
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples,
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chawvenet, New-
comb, or equivalent treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations. A course of at least fifty
experiments in elementary chemistry actually performed
by the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book simi-
lar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. In both chemistry
and physics the laboratory note-book must be presented.
German. A two-year course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English
and easy English into German, or
French. A two-year course in French may be pre-
sented instead of German under the same conditions.
Ability to translate readily, rather than an accurate
grammatical knowledge, is expected.
Eatin. Grammar, complete; Cees ar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on the text of Cees ar.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English....................4
Science....................2
(Chemistry and Physics)
Mathematics.............3
Latin...........
French or German
History.........
Drawing.........
2
2
. 2
%
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
57
PROGRAM IN GENERAL SCIENCE
The Program in General Science is calculated to afford
such an aquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit
himself, either for further study of a technical or pro-
fessional kind, or for the activities of business fife.
The natural and physical sciences constitute the primary
studies of this program. Grouped about these are
such studies in English, mathematics, and modern
languages, as experience has shown to be necessary for
the intelligent pursuit of science and the attainment
of the object of the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior year.
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in physics, chemistry s
biology and mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of
General Science is required to submit, before the final
examination, a written thesis upon some subject con-
nected with the elective work of the Senior year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the professor
in the course selected. The thesis shall contain no less
than five thousand words, and must be satisfactory in
matter and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the
final examination and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry I, VII, each..........................$	5-oo
Chemistry II, III, IV, VI, VIII, IX, Xlb, XIc, XIII, each, 10.00
Chemistry V................................... 20.00
Physics III, Zoology I, Botany II, Mineralogy III, each..	5.00
bulletin of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		Page	Course			Page I	Course
Zoology	6	190	I	Zoology	6	190	I
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II
Drawing	r	144	I	Drawing	2	144	II
Physiology	4	183	I	Physiology	4	183	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Botany	5	125	I, II	Botany	5	125	I, II
Physics	5	181	II, III	Physics	5	181	II, III
Calculus	5	163	III	Calculus	5	164	IV, V
Chemistry	4	128	V	Chemistry .	4	128	V
JUNIOR YEAR
Geology	2	153	iii	Geology	4	153	I
Elective	5			Astronomy	3	123	I
English	3	152	1	English	3	152	I
French or	5	187	1	French or	5	187	I
German	5	155	1	German	5	155	I
Philosophy	4	178	1	Philosophy	4	1/8	I
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy	4	179	II	Philosophy	4	179	II
Electives in Science French or	5	187	II	Electives in Science French or	5	187	II
German	5	156	II	German	5	156	II
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
59
PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them
for professional work either in the laboratory or the
class-room. Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule
of work admits in the Junior and Senior year of some
elective study.
Every candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject
connected with Chemistry and 'must submit, at least
four weeks before the final examination, a written thesis
on work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must
contain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
LABORATORY FEES
Chemistry I, VII, each
$ 5-00
Chemistry II, III, IV, VI, VIII, IX, Xlb, XIc, XIII, each, 10.00
Chemistry V......................................... 20.00
Physics III.......................................... 5.00
Mineralogy III....................................... 5.00
6o	bulletin of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
CHEMISTRY
♦
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course	
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II	
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II	
French	5	187	I	French'	5	187	I	
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I	
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Chemistry	4 -	128	V	Chemistry	4	128	V
Calculus	5	163	III	Calculus	5	164	IV, V
Physics	5	181	II, III	Physics	5	181	II, III
Chemistry	5	128	VI	Chemistry	6	129	IX
Gas Analysis	4	129	VIII				
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	7	129	IX	Chemistry	4	130	XI
Chemistry Elective Elective	5 5			Chemistry Chemistry Elective	3 5	131	XIII
Geology	2	i54	III	Assaying Geology	4 4	154 153	III I
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy History of Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French	4 3 5 2 2	179 131	II XII	Philosophy Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French Thesis	4 5 2 2	179	II «
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	61
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY
The Program in Biology has been designed for students
who wish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required to prepare an
essay during the first term of the Junior Year on some
subject pertaining to biology. Every candidate for a
degree must submit before the final examinations a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings.
Students not preparing themselves for the medical
profession may substitute for the advanced courses in
anatomy and physiology equivalents from either math-
ematics, physics, or English literature.
LABORATORY FEES
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I, II, each..........$	5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany II,	IV,	each......... 5.00
Microscopy—for Courses I, II...................... 1.00
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology.......... 10.00
Physics III....................................... 5-°°
Chemistry II, VI, each........................... 10.00
Chemistry V...................................... 20.00
62
BULLETIN OF TH®
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
BIOLOGY
FRESHMAH YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS:' Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Zoology ’	5	190	I	Zoology	6	I9O	I
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
Microscopy	2	171	I	English	3	152	I
English	3	152	I	Erench	5	187	I
Erench	5	187	I	Drawing	1	I46	IX
Drawing	i	146	IX				
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Bacteriology	5	124	I	Physiology	5	183	I
Botany	5	125	I, II	Botany	5	125	I, II
Chemistry	4	128	V	Chemistry	4	128	V
Physics	5	180	II, III	Physics	5	181	II, III
Drawing	1	146	X	Drawing	1	146	X
JUNIOR YEAR
Botany	6	126	III, IV	Botany	4	126	III, IV
Geology	2	154	III	Geology	4	153	I
Philosophy	4	180	I	Philosophy	4	178	I
Chemistry	5	128	VI	Elective	5		
English	3	152	II	English	3	,152	II
			SENIOR	YEAR			
Anatomy	2	116	I, II	Anatomy	2	116	I, II
Anatomy	4	116	III	Anatomy	4	ri6	III
Physiology	6	183	II	Physiology	6	183	II
Zoology »	6	191	II	Zoology	6	191	II
Thesis				Thesis			
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
63
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are three programs in Pharmacy: one of two
years, leading to the degree, Graduate in Pharmacy
(Ph. G.); and one of three years leading to the
degree, Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.); and one of
four years leading to the degree, Bachelor of Science in
Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.)
ADMISSION
Applicants for admission to the short program must
be 18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
subjects required for the completion of the first year of
high school work. A certificate of work done equivalent
to one year of high school will be accepted instead
of an examination.
For admission to the three year program, in addition
to the age limit, the completion of two years preparatory
work is required. Evidence of this work may be shown
by certificate or examination.
For admission to the four year program the same
conditions apply as for entrance to the Freshman year
of any regular program in the College of. Science.
METHODS
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated process.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success, in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
64
bulletin of the
operations, and extreme care in the manufacture of
preparations are required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal
Medication.
EQUIPMENT
Bach desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same ex-
perience that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full charge. He is required to
furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physi-
cians, and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute
a very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to
read them and to compound those requiring special
manipulation. The reading room is supplied with all
the leading pharmaceutical journals and books of
reference. The Pharmacognosy room contains specimens
of all the official and a great many unofficial drugs for
study and identification.
THESIS
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a
subject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results
of this work are carefully recorded and must be type-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	65
written and presented to the Faculty as a requirement
for graduation.
LABORATORY FEES
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II, and IV, each.........$20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI, and VII, each........ 20.00
Chemistry	I,	and	VII,	each......................... 5.00
Chemistry	III,	IV,	and	VI, each................... 10.00
Geology III......................................... 5.00
Physics I............................................ 5.00
66
BUEEETIN OB THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
GRADUATE IN PHARMACY
BIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR. DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Birst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Cotuse			P’ge	Course
Pharmacy	8	176	I, II	Pharmacy	8	176	I, II
Chemistry	5	127	I	Chemistry	5	127	I
Microscopy	2	172	I	Chemistry	2	131	X
Bacteriology	5	124	I	Physiology	5	183	I
Arithmetic	3	l8O	IX	Chemistry	5	128	III
Physics	5	I8O	I	Physics	5	l8O	I
second YEAR
Pharmacy	8	176	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	i77	IV. V, Via XI
Chemistry	4	128	IV	Pharmacy	2	178	
Chemistry	7	128	VI	Mat’ra Medica	3	177	VIII
Mat’ra Medica	3	177	VIII	Botany	5	126	I, II
Botany	5	125	I, II	Pharmacog’y	1	178	X
Pharmacog’y	1	178					
DEGREE: PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
BIRST YEAR
Pharmacy	8	176	I, II	Pharmacy	8	176	I, II
Chemistry	5	127	I	Chemistry	5	127	I
Microscopy	2	172	I	Chemistry	2	131	X
Bacteriology	5	124	I	Physiology	5	183	I
Arithmetic	3	180	IX	Chemistry	4	128	III
Physics	5	180	I	Physics	5	180	I
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	176	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	i77	IV, V, Via
Chemistry	4	128	IV	Pharmacy	2	178	XI
Chemistry	7	128	VI	Mat’ra Medica	3	177	VIII
Mat’ra Medica	3	177	VIII	Botany	5	126	I, II
Botany	5	125	I, II	Pharmacog’y	1	178	X
Pharmacog’y	1	178	X				
THIRD YEAR
Pharmacy	6	177	VIb	Pharmacy	6	177	VII
Chemistry	5	13°	XIc	Chemistry	5	132	XIV
Geology	2	i54	III	Urine Anal.	3	129	Vila
Elective	5			Toxicology	3	129	Vllb
Thesis	2			Elective	5		
				Thesis	2		
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
67
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
PHARMACY
Freshman year
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SED FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
Botany	5	125	I, II	Botany	5	125	I, II
German	5	155	I	♦German	5	155	I
Microscopy	2	172	I	Physiology	5	183	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Pharmacy	8	1/6	I, II	Pharmacy	8	176	I, II
Chemistry	(	4 1	I28|	V	Chemistry	4	128	V
Physics	5	181	II, III	Physics	5	181	II, III
English	3	152	II	English	3	152	II
JUNIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8	176	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	176	IV, V, Via*
Chemistry	5	128	VI	Chemistry	2	128	VIc
Bacteriology	5	124	I	Geology	5	153	I
Zoology	5	190	I	Zoology	5	190	I
				Pharmacy	2	178	XI
SENIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8	177	VIb	Pharmacy	5	177	VII
Pharmacog’y	2	178	X	Pharmacog’y	2	178	X
Geology	2	154	III	Urine Anal.	2	129	Vila
Elective	5			Toxicology	3	129	Vllb
Mat’ra Medica	3	177	VIII	Elective	5		
Thesis				Mat’raMedica Thesis	3	177	VIII
							
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MINING"ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
69
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the
engineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the five departments of
engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that
are applied in engineering work. Mathematics is fore-
most among these requirements. The natural sciences
receive their share of attention and due importance
is given to language in arranging the programs of studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to
correspond as closely as possible to the real work of
the engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged - to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are
acquired by applying the results of mathematical
calculations to particular practical cases in laboratory
work.
Five regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, one to the degree of
Electrical Engineer, one to the degree of Engineer of
Mines, and one to the degree of Chemical Engineer.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accommodate those who wish
70
BULLETIN OF THE
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest
possible time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department will be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works
in the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufactur-
ing plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour of credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one
to two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in
laboratory work, shopwork or drawing is required
for each hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 35, the regular
students in the five Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appara-
tus used.
LABORATORY FEES
Assaying II.........................................$15.00
Chemistry 1.......................................... 5.00
Chemistry II, VI, VIII, Xlb, XIc,	XIII,	XIV, XV, each, 10.00
Chemistry V......................................... 20.00
Crystallography IV..............‘.................... 2.00
Electrical Laboratory I, II and IV,	each............ 15.00
Metallurgy 1......................................... 5.00
Mineralogy II, Sophomore Year....................... 10.00
Mineralogy II, Junior Year........................... 5.00
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
71
Mineralogy III..................................... 5.00
Petrography V...................................... 5.00
Physical Laboratory I and III, each................ 5.00
Physical Laboratory IV............................ 15.00
Shopwork, all four-year	programs, per term.......  15.00
Surveying III, V, VIII,	each................ 5.00
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States;
Federal Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr’s text-book or ah equivalent treatise.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments and recitations from a text-book like
Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s, laboratory work is also
required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry. Laboratory
work required.
Botany, Physiology, and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must
' present a three years’ course in German, French or
Spanish.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon text-books and readings
72
BUIvIvBTIN of the
required to be read in the preparatory courses in English;
the remainder for writing an essay.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English.................4
Mathematics............3	M
Science..................2
(Chemistry and Physics)
History.................2
French or German........3
Drawing.................%
Elective................1
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession,
either in the office or in some of the responsible positions
superintending the construction and operation of public
works. To secure these results the student is given,
not only a sound theoretical training in the courses of
study, but he is also required to study the practical
applications of the principles upon which the theory
is based. The first two years are devoted to the study
of mathematics and the theoretical branches. The last
two years are given to the study of applied courses—
practical work in the laboratory and field, as much as
possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects.
Instruction based upon standard text-books on engineer-
ing is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
UNIVERSITY ■ OF NOTRE DAME
73
directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class-
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening
his interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists of
surveyors’ transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with all
the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, leveling
rods, etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine.
After the student is taught the use and adjustment of
the instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are
commenced and continued progressively until the more
difficult principles and methods are understood. In a
similar manner is instruction given in the courses of
sanitary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of
materials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the
student with practical engineering subjects, and the
most improved method of execution and designing. A
large draughting room offers facilities for the proper
study of all the courses in mechanical drawing and
design. The room is splendidly lighted from above, well
ventilated and contains the latest form of drawing
tables. There are suitable arrangements for blue-
printing, both by natural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West.
Some of the largest plants in the world are situated here.
One of the greatest water power developments in the
United States is located a few miles from the University.
Special advantages are thus afforded to students for the
inspection of the most modern engineering works now
74
BULLETIN OB
completed or in process of construction. The City
Engineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of the
Department connected with the course of study, is
required of each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original research.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
75
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P*ge	Course			P’ge	| Course
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II
English.	i	152		English	1	152	
French	4	187	I	French	4	187	I
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
Drawing	3	144	I	Drawing	3	144	II
				Surveying	3	133	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	163	III	Calculus	5	164	IV, V
Des. Geometry'	3	133	I	Des. Geometry	3	133	I
Surveying )			IV V	R.R. Survey’g	5	134	VII,VIII
Geodesy	1	5	I35	VI	Physics	5	181	II, III
Physics	5	181	II, III	Drawing	1	i45	V
Drawing	1	145	V				
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	135	VIII	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	135	VIII
Elective	4			Materials	3	.136	X
English	3	152	II	Astronomy	3	123	I
Geology	2	154	III	English	3	152	II
Stereotomy	3	145	VI	Geology Drawing	4 3	153 145	I VII
SENIOR YEAR
Engineering	5	138	XII	Engineering	5	138	XII
Hydromechan.	3	140	XVI	Hydromechan.	3	140	XVI
Bridges, Roofs	5	139	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	i39	XV
Sanitary Eng.	2	138	•XIII	Sanitary Eng. Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	'	2 4	138 i37	XIII, XI
76
BULLETIN OF THU
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The Program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and
for the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only those
capable of adapting themselves to these requirements
should take it up. The program of the department is
modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.	'
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials
used in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the
science of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces
the motions of connected parts without reference to the
cause of such motions, to the work done or energy
transmitted. This is succeeded by machine design, which
is a direct development of kinematics, and the course
continues throughout the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the wood-
shop, in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and
pattern-making are taught. When the students have
become sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up the
work of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine
shop. A systematic course of training is provided, which
advances the student by easy steps until he has mastered
all the details of the work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	77
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of the program,
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show
considerable originality.
Every possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the
particular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas
engine design and operation. A systematic curriculum
of study will be outlined in each individual case leading
to a complete and proficient knowledge of the work
undertaken.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort
is made by the authorities to make the work as com-
prehensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop is
supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped with
the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for
turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner, an
edge moulder and sharper, a universal trimmer, circular
saw with dado and drilling attachments and band saw,
the whole forming an adequate equipment for a thor-
ough mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
78
BULLETIN OB THE
shafting running the entire length of the building. The
latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five-inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed, having a
capacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter. Two
drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine and a
Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the outfit,
thus making the machine shop a model of its kind. There
have been completed lately in the machine shop seven
new screw cutting lathes of fourteen-inch swing, a high
speed bench hand lathe, one twenty-eight inch Sibley
and Ware drill press, one horizontal 8x12 slide valve
steam engine and a wood milling machine. The equip-
ment is added to regularly, and recently a Seneca Balls
lathe of fourteen inch swing and eight foot bed, a Crown
high speed lathe, a Toledo punch press and a complete
new set of chucks, drills, taps, mandrels and lathe dogs
have been installed to meet the additional requirements
of the courses. It is the policy of this department to
refrain as much as possible from exercise work, and
each student is usually taking part in the construction
of some new machine or engaged on general repair work
for the University, a plan which is regarded superior
to a fixed routine of exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool-making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops,
the engineering students have access to the steam and
power plants of the University which have been recently
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
79
remodeled and made to compare' favorably with the
best contemporary practice. The main steam plant
contains two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers,
aggregating 1200 horse power. In connection with the
boilers is installed the necessary testing apparatus as
follows: a Worthington hot water meter for measuring
the amount of feed water, a feed water thermometer
for getting temperature of same, a high range ther-
mometer for temperature of generated steam, a throttling
calorimeter for ascertaining the quality of steam and
an automatic recording pressure gauge giving a con-
tinuous record of the boiler pressure. Provision is made
for finding the temperature and pressure of the flue
gases by means of a pyrrometer and draught gauge and
for obtaining samples of flue gas for analysis with
Fisher’s analysis apparatus. These, with ’a Carpenter
coal calorimeter for determining the heating value of
fuel, comprise a full and complete equipment for giving
the student an intimate knowledge of the practical part
of boiler management and testing. A Webster feed
water and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two
large Worthington fire pumps 16x9 by 12 with a capacity
of 1500 gallons per minute, with numerous separators,
steam traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete
the apparatus in the main steamplant. A McBwen
high speed automatic engine, an Armington and Sims
engine of smaller type and several low speed horizontal
engines with polar and roller planimeters, indicators,
reducing wheels, slide rules and other necessary instru-
ments, are used in studying the operation of the steam
engine, distribution and economy of steam, regulation,
valve setting and heat wastes.
There have been recently donated to the mechanical
laboratory about four hundred brass and iron fittings
8o
bulletin or THE
used in steam and gas engineering, including feed water
injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups, safety valves,
relief valves, different varieties of globe valves, gate
valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bushings and
reducers. Many of these have been sectioned to show
the dimensions, and facilitate a study of the internal
structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four cycle engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse power two-cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse power horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with circulating pump and cooling
tower, one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil,
one Apple ignition dynamo with storage battery, two
Hendricks automatic igniters together with carburettors,
spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary
equipment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston
carburettor and muffler, a National storage battery,
Pittsfield induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard
magnetos wTith brass armored spark coils, one four
engine cylinder distributor and a number of improved
standard and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated by alcohol has been placed in the machine
shop, and the work of designing and building the
engine will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering
topics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete
line of trade catalogues.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
81
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: FiRst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II
French	4	187	I	French	5	187	I
Drawing	3	144	I	Drawing	3	144	II
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
Shopwork	3	170	XlVa	Shopwork	3	170	XlVb
English	i	152		English	1	152	
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5-	163	III
Drawing	2	146	VIII
Chemistry	4	128	V
Physics	5	181	II, III
Shopwork	3	170	XIVc
Calculus	5	164	IV, V
Drawing	2	146	VIII
Chemistry	■4	128	V
Physics	5	181	II, III
Shop work	3	170	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
An. Mechanics	5	135	VIII	Hydromechan.	2	140	XVI
Kinematics	4	167	V	Meeh’s of Mat.	3	136	X
English	3	152	I	Mach’n Design	3	167	VI
Physics	2	181	IV	Physics	2	181	IV
Shopwork	3	170	XlVe	Valve Gears	1	167	VII
				English	3	152	I
				Shopwork	3	170	XlVf
SENIOR year
Materials of Engineering	2	165	II	Steam Engine Design	4	166	III
Thermodynam.	5	165	I	Steam Boilers	3	166	IV
Steam Engine				Thermodynam.	5	165	I
Design	4	166	III	Thesis	•			
Mechan’l Lab.	3	168	VIII	Elective	4		
Shop work	3	170	XlVf				
82
BULLETIN or THE
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study^ of
explosive motors, in theory, design, construction and
operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a
general descriptive study of the different types of
engines with discussions on the general management,
operations, care and special uses to which this type
of motor may be applied. During the second year the
general theory of the gas engine is studied and the
design of an engine for specific purposes is undertaken
by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodyna-
mic efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. Experi-
ments in flame, electric and hot tube ignition, operation
of vaporizers and carburettors, construction of spark
coils and care of motors will complete the work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room
by the complete building and testing of a gas engine of
a design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each
student is required to prepare the patterns and core-
boxes, machine the castings and forgings, assemble the
complete engine and submit a comprehensive report of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	83
a test on the machine constructed. If the report proves
satisfactory a certificate of proficiency is given to the
student and the gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student must have
completed courses XIVa and XIVb in shopwork and
must certify by examination or certificate evidence of
a knowledge of algebra as far as logarithms, plane
geometry, and his further ability to pursue the studies
of the first year. Candidates shall also write a short
essay, which must be satisfactory in spelling, sentence
and paragraph construction.
The equipment and facilities for the courses will be
found described on pages 74-78.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR
	SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOC DESCRIPTION	
			P’ge	Course			P ge	Course
f	Geometry	5	209	E	Trignome try	5	210	F
	Drawing	2	142	I	Drawing	3	142	II
	Shopwork	3	170	XlVa	Shopwork	3	170	XlVd
	Chemistry	5	127	I	Chemistry	5	127	I
	Physics	5	I8O	I	Physics	5	l8O	I
	Gas Engines	5	l68	X	Vapor Engines	5	168	X
SECOND YEAR
Motor .Design	15	160	XI	Motor Design	10	169	XI
Laboratory	3	169	•XIII	Laboratory	3	169	XIII
Gas Engine	3	169	XII	Gas Engine Engines and Boilers	3 3	169 168	XII IX
84
BULLETIN OB THE
THE DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
in the program of Electrical Engineering is intended
to give a general education as well as a special training
in the technical branches involved in the various prac-
tical applications of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class-room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires skill in hand-
ling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records
of the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
centre in the growth of which electricity is taking a
very prominent part. Electric power generated by
steam is now being distributed and utilized in several
large plants, some using the three phase alternating
system, while others are using the direct current. One
of the largest water power developments in the Middle
West is situated within a few miles of the University.
From this establishment we receive three phase alter-
nating currents which furnish light for our buildings
and grounds, and power for driving motors in our
shops and printing offices, etc., all of which are operated
by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power within
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
85
a short distance. Our students visit all of these plants
accompanied by an instructor who points out the
applications of the text-book theory in the design of
electrical apparatus and its operation under actual
working conditions.
Bach candidate for graduation must present at the
end of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying
the results of an extended original research on an
engineering subject, chosen at the beginning of the
year, with the approval of the head of the department.
The descriptive part must be typewritten on legal cap
paper, .and bound in book form together with the
drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows: A three phase A. C. induction motor arranged
to operate on single phase circuits with a condenser
compensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K. W. com-
posite wound Wood alternator of the latest type with
exicatter and a full set of switchboard instruments/
several transformers of different capacity, a high tension
transformer for testing insulation, an Bdison bipolar
15 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-Houston arc
light machine with regulator and fifteen lamps, a Wood
arc transformer for testing insulation, an Bdison bipolar
15 machine capacity 25 lights, an Bdison bipolar 3
K. W. 125 V. dynamo with special winding, a Van
Depoele compound wound dynamo, a special A. C.
5 H. P. dynamo or rotary converter, a series wound
dynamo with wrought iron field, number of small motors,
a forty horse power high speed automatic engine, a
set of inclined coil alternating current portable instru-
ments voltmeter, ammeter and wattmeter, telegraphing
relays, sounders, switchboard, etc., telephone apparatus
86
BULLETIN OB THE
including subscribers sets of various modern types, a
fifty drop manual switchboard complete and a lot of
separate drops, jacks, switches, lightning arresters, etc.,
automatic telephone switchboard containing first and
second selector and connector switches, interrupter
heat coils, etc., and three subscribers sets—with this
. apparatus all the operations involved in the operation
of a 10,000 system may be performed, a complete central
energy switchboard, several lines and subscribers sets
and a selective signaling four party line outfit,' a collec-
tion of historical sets including Reis’ transmitter and
receiver, a standard portable bridge, a common portable
bridge, a testing battery, a power or foot lathe with
wood turning tools, drills and hand tools for metals, a
set of tools for metal working, a calibrating lamp rack,
a D’Arsonval and common galvanometers, Ballistic
galvanometer, standard condenser, etc., for capacity
work, resistance boxes, standard meghoms, etc., high
resistance Thompson galvanometer, standard cells,
voltmeter arranged for the comparison on incandescent
lamps, a plug switchboard controlling all circuits, a
small engine belted to shafting to drive a plating dynamo
and a buffer for cleaning and polishing work to be
plated, solution tank, etc.,—in all, a complete outfit
for electrotype work, a hot wire ammeter, twelve am-
meters and voltmeters mostly of the Western type for
x direct current measurements, a set of wood working
tools, a Kohlrausch bridge for measuring battery
resistance, etc., a lot of arc lamps series and constant
potential open and enclosed arcs of various wattmeters
of various types, a collection of motor starting rheostats,
several sets of parts of incandescent lamps showing the
various stages in their manufacture, a large collection
of porcelain insulators used in electrical work including a
lot of insulators for high tension transmission lines, a
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
87
lot of armature core disks, transformer core stampings,
formed coils, brush holders, pole pieces, samples of in-
sulation, commutator segments, etc., used in dynamos
of good design, donated by leading manufacturers of
electrical machinery, a case of marked samples of wire
insulators, lamps and other construction materials, a
library of practical technical books of reference and files
of leading periodicals and trade publications, a Cooper
Hewitt mercury vapor lamp, a high frequency Telsa
coil and condenser, a working model of the induction
armature winding model mounted to rotate in bipolar
and multipolar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with
universal switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An absolute
electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for illus-
trating static phenomena, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of
the modern machine from the early form of the recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types, a
complete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for'wireless
telegraphy. For further apparatus consult pages 53,
54 and 55 of this catalogue. .
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shopwork,
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages 52, 73 and 76.
88
bulletin or THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER IN ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	| Course			P’ge	] Course
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II
French	4	I87	I	French	4	187	I
Drawing	3	144	I	Drawing	3	144	II
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
Shop work	3	170	XlVa	Shopwork	3	170	XlVb
English	i	152		English	1	152	
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	163	III	Calculus	5	164	IV, V
Des. Geometry	2	146	III	Des. Geometry	2	146	III
Physics	5	181	II, III	Physics	5	181	II, III
Shopwork	3	170	XIVc	Shop work	3	170	XlVd
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics Kinematics	5 4	136 167	VIII V	Hydromechan. Meeh’s of Mat. Mach’n Design Electrical	2 3 3	140 136 166	VIII VIII VI
Physics	2	181	IV	Measurement	1	182	V
Shop work	3	170	XlVe	Shop work	3	182	XlVf
Elective	4			Calorimetry	1	182	VI
				Elective	4		
SENIOR YEAR
Dynamo				Dynamo Mach	4	148	III
Machinery	4	148	III	Electrical Lab.	4	148	IV
Thermodynam.	5	166	I	Designing	2	148	V
Electrical Lab.	4	148	IV	Thermodynam.	5	165	I
Designing	3	148	V	Illuminating			
Power	I			VIII	Engineering	1	150	XII
transmission J Electric Ry. J Thesis	I	149	IX	Thesis			
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
89
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
' Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short program, which
may be completed in two years. The studies are arranged
to give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental
theories of electricity and magnetism, as well as a
certain amount of skill in handling electrical machinery
and appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and
elementary physics are included, for they are necessary
in order to carry on successfully the practical work
of designing,' manufacturing and testing or operating
electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work is
given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and in
the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power
are learned by testing, repairing and making additions
to the University plant, and by visiting the numerous
electric establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by
an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.	*
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as logarithms.
They shall also write a short, essay which must be
satisfactory in spelling, punctuation, sentence and
paragraph construction.
90
BULLETIN oe the
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, according to the follow-
ing schedule, after they have finished all the work
required for entrance, shall be as given on page 70.
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
first year
SUBJECTS: Birst Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	| Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	209	c	Geometry	5	209	D
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	II
Shopwork	3	I/O	XlVa	Shop work	3	170	XlVb
Physics	5	180	I	Physics	5	l80	I
Applied • Electricity	5	147	I	Applied Electricity	5	147	I
second year
Trigonometry Designing Shopwork Dynamo • Machinery Applied Electricity	5 3 3 5 5	210 148 170 148 147	E V XIVc III II	Engines and Boilers Designing Shopwork Dynamo Machinery Applied Electricity	3 3 3 5 5	168 148 170 148 147	IX V Q XlVd III II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
91
- I
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
The wonderful growth and expansion of the mining
industry, not only in this country but in Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America, has created a constant demand
for trained men who have a thoroughly practical as
well as theoretical knowledge of mining operations.
The aim of this department is to give the student
sufficient training in the various technical branches of
mining to enable him to project and successfully carry
through a mining enterprise.
The course of studies leading to the degree of Mining
Engineer includes the essential subjects of Mechanical
Engineering, particularly those which have special
prominence in mining work; for the economical oper-
ation of any mine depends to a great extent upon the
judicious selection and proper operation of the machinery
in the power plant, mill and smelter. Likewise the
subjects of Civil Engineering with but few excep-
tions, are embraced in the mining course, for the reason
that many of the problems of Civil Engineering must
be solved in the laying out and directing of mining
work. Plans and surveys of the surface improvements
and underground workings of a mine are made by the
Mining Engineer.	'
In addition to these subjects the course includes the
following special branches: Crystallography, Mineral-
ogy, Petrography, Physical and Chemical Geology,
Economic Mining Geology, Metallurgy, Ore Dressing,
Assaying and.a thorough study^of Inorganic Chemistry
in its application to mining and metallurgy.
Throughout the course the object is not only to
present clearly the*, theory underlying each subject,
but to fix it. in the mind of the student by practical
work in the laboratory, shop, drafting room and in
92
BULLETIN OB THB
trips to the mi ing districts where the student becomes
familiar with the practi al application of the principles
laid down in the text-book and lectures.
The subject of the thesis required in this course
must be along the line of mining and consist of original
research wcrk in cue of its special branches, to be
approved by the head of the department.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING
Chemical manufacture has developed so rapidly and
grown so exacting that there has arisen a demand for
men who not only can create and improve chemical
processes strictly so-called, but who can deal with the
problems of construction and maintenance as far as
they are related to the chemical industries. To prepare
young men for such work the course in Chemical Engi-
neering has been designed. The student taking up this
course is given a thorough training in chemical principles
similar to t,hat outlined in the Course in Chemistry
except that the laboratory period is somewhat shortened.
To this training is added a certain amount of the theory
and laboratory practice in Mechanical Engineering
sufficient for the needs of chemical industries, together
with a consideration of electrical currents as used in
chemical manufacture.
e
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
93
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER
freshman year
SUBJECTS: Eirst]Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Eirst Term.	Hrs. a Wk,	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
Drawing	3	144	I	Drawing	3	144	II
Shopwork	3	179	XlVa	Shopwork	3	170	XlVb
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
				Surveying	3	133	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	163	III	Calculus	5	164	IV, V
Surveying I			IV V	Adv. Survey’g	5	135	VIIVIII
Geodesy J	5	3 0	VI	Physics	5	181	II, III
Physics	5	181	II, III	Chemistry	4	128	V
Chemistry	4	128	V	Drawing	1	i47	V
Drawing	1	147	V	Geology	5	i53	I
Mining Eng.	5	172	I	Mining Eng.	5	172	I
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh.	5	136	IX	Meeh, of Mats.	3	136	X
Mineralogy	3	154	II	Hydromechan.	2	140	XVI
Drawing	3	147	VIII	Mineralogy	5	154	II
Shopwork	3	170	XlVe	Drawing	2	147	VIII
Crystall’phy	5	154	IV	Shopwork	3	170	XlVf
Elective	4			Chemistry	5	132	XV
				Mine Surveying	3	172	
SENIOR YEAR
Ore Dressing Metallurgy	3 3	171 163	I	Assaying Economic	8	163	II
Physical and ,				Mining Geol.	2	153	VII
Chern. Geol.	3	155	VI	Graphic Statics	5	139	XV
Petrography Thermodynam. Materials of Engineering Shopwork	2 5 2 3	154 165 165 170	V I II XlVf	Petrography Thesis	2	i54	V
SUMMER WORK.
(To be done during the summer preceding the Senior Year.)
This course consists of actual Mining Engineering practice in the mines
of the lake Superior district, under the direction of the head of the department.
Each student is required to make a complete, accurate underground survey
with a mining transit, connecting the mine traverse with one on surface, through
vertical and inclined shafts, A study of the different methods of mining in
several mines are made with special attention given to Geology in its relation
to economic mining; ore dressing mills and metallurgical plants are carefully
inspected to familiarize the student with the best concentrating and smelting
methods. Sixty hours a week for four weeks.
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II
Chemistry	4	127	II	Chemistry	4	127	II
Drawing	3	144	I	Drawing	3	144	II
French	4	187	I	French	4	188	I
English	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
Shopwork	3	170	XlVa	Shopwork	3	170	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	163	III	Calculus	5	164	IV, V
Physics	5	182	II, III	Physics	5	181	II, III
Drawing	2	145	III	Drawing	2	145	III
Chemistry	4	127	V	Chemistry	4	128	V
Shop work	3	170	XIVc	Shop work	3	170	XlVd
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	128	VI	Chemistry	5	132	XV
Physics	2	182	IV	Physics	2	182	IV
Anal. Meeh.	5	135	VIII	Meeh, of Mats	3	168	X
Kinematics	3	167	V	Hydro mechan	2	140	XVI
Drawing	2	148	VIII	i Mach. Design	3	167	VI
Elective	4			Valve Gears	1	167	VII
				Chemistry	2	129	VIII
				। Steam Boilers	3	166	IV
SENIOR YEAR
Chemistry	6	127	IX	Chemistry	7	I2Q	IX
Chemistry	3	129	XIII	Chemistry	4	130	XI
Chemistry	5	129	XIV	Chemistry	5	131	XIV
Thermodynam.	5	162	I	Thermodynam.	5	165	I
Mech’l. Lab.	3	165	VIII	Thesis			
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
95
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that
a deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Master-Artist is the heaven-gifted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of
form, color, texture, and ornament, can build them
structurally and economically perfect. It is seldom that
any mind combines all of these attributes. It is more
seldom that to-day’s practice requires them in any one
man. To-day, one man “designs”; another “frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of architecture that has caused the University of
Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture from
the College of Engineering and to create’ the new College
of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offers three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The pro-
gram in design requires four years for completion and
is offered to students wishing to specialize in design;
the degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture is
the same length and is offered to men wishing to special-
ize in construction; the degree is Bachelor of Science'
in Architectural Engineering. Graduate years are
offered in both programs, and upon completion, Master’s ’
degrees are conferred. A Short Program covering two
years is offered to students finding it impossible or
inexpedient to devote to school work the time required
for completing the programs leading to degrees. Upon
completion of the Short Program a Certificate of Pro-
ficiency is given. . „
96	BULLETIN OB THE
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the drafting-room continuously for four or five hours.
In the Senior Year and in the Short Program the
class-room requirements are less and the time to be
spent in the drafting-room correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
preparatory to the programs either in the Preparatory
School of the University or in an accredited school;
or, entrance may be by examination at the University
on the first two days of the Fall Term.
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the
routine of the courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in
Architecture, or in Architectural Engineering from
Notre Dame or another School of Architecture of
equal standing. The University will confer the Mas-
ter’s degree on her own graduate students not in res-
idence at the end of one year if that time is spent in
an atelier of the first order or in travel abroad follow-
ing an approved program of study and investigation;
or at the end of not less than two years if that time
is spent in practice and the University’s requirements
- are complied with.
.	EQUIPMENT
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from
a small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of signed drawings—
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from arch-
UNIVERSITY^ OF NOTRE DAM^	97
itects of national reputation; a large elaborate model
complete in all its details of the New Cook County-
Court House in Chicago; photographs, engravings,
plaster models, reference books and manufacturers’
catalogues and samples. The collection, however,
needs to be increased faster than the resources of the
'University will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre
Dame can not give money, or its equivalent, fctr a
better purpose. The endowment of a Traveling Fellow-
ship, preferably for the study of .European Bcclesias-
tical Architecture, will be a benefaction of the utmost
value. One thousand dollars will provide for one man
for one year.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Anguish. Part of the examination time is given
' for answering questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in the preparatory courses in Bnglish;
the remainder for writing an essay.
Algebra. Fundamental operations, simple equa-
tions, involution and evolution, radicals, radical equa-
tions and quadratic equations, including everything
up to logarithms, as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra,
or of an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Ancient, Medieval and Modern History.
Geography, Physical, as much as is contained
in the ordinary text-books.
Physiology. Martin’s Human Body, or an equiv-
alent.	’
BULLETIN OB THR
Botany, - Zoology. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
given in high schools of good standing. Laboratory
work is required.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text book
similar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory
work is required.
Civics. Elementary.
Branch. A three years’ course in Trench is re-
quired. Ability to translate Trench into English,
and easy English sentences into Trench. Or,
German. A three years’ course in German is re-
quired. Ability to translate German into English,
and easy English sentences into German.
Drawing. A knowledge of the use of drawing
instruments, of projection drawing and elementary
freehand.
Subjects required for Treshman standing:
English...................4	.History..................2
Mathematics..............3%	French or German..........3
Science...................2	Drawing...................X
(Chemistry and Physics) Elective......................1
THE PROGRAM IN DESIGN
Dbgrlbs: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to arrange it that the student pursuing
it will have upon completion a liberal education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural
Design and Composition. It may be undertaken
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
99
by students whose artistic intuition and temperament
fit them especially for the aesthetic side of a noble
profession.
The course is built up around the work in the
drafting-room where half of the student’s time .
is spent. The work in Design, beginning in the Fresh-
man year with the intelligent study of the orders and
simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by
means of minor and major problems involving the
planning of all classes of building from the simplest
to the most monumental, is supplemented and rounded
out by exercises in the various methods and media
of rendering and by a thorough course in freehand
and modeling.
The materials and methods of all trades and pro-
fessions engaged in building operations are system-
atically studied in the Construction classes through-
out the four years of the program. The writing of
specifications for each branch in labor is studied syn-
chronously. Practical work in the various trades
is given so that the student may know good work
and thus be able to superintend construction intel-
ligently. The practical lessons are supplemented by
trips to the important' building operations and in-
dustries in the neighborhood of the University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and numer-
ous practical problems solved.
Working drawings and detail of construction are
made under office conditions.	•
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College
in outlining the construction courses to equip the
IOO
BULLETIN OF THE
student to solve by office methods any problem lie
may meet in ordinary practice, it being taken for granted
that graver problems requiring a deep knowledge
of the higher mathematics may well be left to the
architectural engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of
high professional standing will give a number of lectures
in this course.
A history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering four years. The method
is a combination of lectures, recitations and research.
Courses either in mathematics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years com-
plete the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism
and research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.	/
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
DbgrFES: Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering.
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be thor-
ough, the engineer must specialize. One of his special-
izations is in Architecture. His services are needed
to frame important buildings, to design their founda-
tions and to protect adjoining property while they
are in erection. The modern idea of education is to
progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs.
The College offers the Program in Architectural Engineer-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
IOI
ing because there is need of the service of the men
who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engi-
neers should have a bent for mathematics and for
painstaking, exact draughting.
The program of studies differs from that of the
Program in Design chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied mathematics are sub-
stituted for the courses in English, economics and
philosophy; the more important construction courses
go deeper into theory; freehand work ends with the
first year; the study of Historic Ornament and the
Histories of the “Allied Arts” is omitted; and a rel-
atively greater amount of time, increasing each year,
is spent in structural design.
■ The Graduate year is spent entirely in the solving
of problems of the first order in architectural engi-
neering.
THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiency.
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is* essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class-room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year than
in either of the complete programs.
Ordinarily the same entrance subjects are demanded
for the Short Program as for the Programs in Design
and Engineering. A student may be allowed to take
up work in the Short Program who is sufficiently mature
in years and has had enough practical experience
to warrant his following the work with profit.
102
bulletin of the
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the drafting-room.
It is the intention to have the students work steadily
for four hours in the drafting-room.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
103
PPOGRAM IN DESIGN
first year
	Hrs.	SEE FOR			Hrs.	SEE FOR	
SUBJECTS:	a	DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS:	a	DESCRIPTION	
First Term				Second Term			
	Wk.	P’ge	] Course		Wk.	P’ge	| Course
English.	3	152	I	English	3	152	I
El. of Arch.	5	121	I	EI. of Arch.	5	121	I
Construction	4	Il8	I	Construction	4	118	I
History	4	158	II	History	4	I158	1 II
Drawing Des. Geom.	2	142	Ic	Drawing	2	142	Id
Shades and	2	T44	III	Perspective	2	144	III
Shadows							
SECOND YEAR							
English	3	152	II	English	3	152	II
Design	8	121	II	Design	8	121	II
Construction	3	Il8	II	Construction	3	Il8	II
Hist, of Arch.	2	I l6	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	Il6	I
Drawing	2	142	Ha	Drawing	2	I42	Ila
Graphics The’y of Des.	2	139	XV	Graphics	2	139	XV
	1	122	Vila	The’y of Des.	1	122	VHb
•			THIRD	YEAR			
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Design	8	121	III	Design	8	121	III
Construction	1	119	III	Construction	1	119	III
Hist, of Arch.	2	Il6	II	Hist, of Arch.	2	Il6	II
« History of				History of			
' Ornament	2	117	III	Sculpture	2	117	IV
Drawing	2	142	lib	Drawing	2	142	lib
Heat andVent.	1	119	V	Sanitation	1	120	VI
FOURTH YEAR							
Elective	4			Elective	4		
History of				Bus. Ethics	2	120	I
Painting	2	117	V	History of			
Pen and Ink	1	146	VIII	Painting	2	117	V
Water Color	1	146	XI	Modeling	2	145	V
Design	IO	121	IV	Design Thesis	IO	121	IV
At the beginning of the First Year the student matriculating for the
Program in Design may, with the consent of the Faculty, elect a Major in
Mathematics instead of the Major in English, The Mathematics courses for
the four years will be as follows; Algebra, I; Analytic Geometry, II; Cal-
culus, III, IV, V; Physics, II, III; Analytic Mechanics, VIII; Mechanics
of Materials, X.
At the beginning of his Third Year, the student following the regular
Program in Design may, if his proficiency in English warrants it, elect to
follow during the Third and Fourth Years one of the following courses: English,
Philosophy, Political Science, History, French or German. He may not, how-
ever, elect a course in the same language that he offered for credit at ’matric-
ulation. If the above election is denied the student, he must continue Jiis
work in English for one or two years more as may be decided by the Faculty.
104
bueeetin OB THE
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	163	I	Anal. Geom.	5	163	II
Des. Geom.	3	144	I	Des. Geom.	3	I44	I
Construction	4	Il8	I	Construction	4	Il8	I
Shades and Shadows	i	145	III	Perspective	1	145	III
Drawing	.	i	I44	I	Drawing	1	144	II
Drawing	r	142	Ic	Drawing	1	142	Id
EL of Arch.	8	121	I	El. of Arch	8	121	I
SECOND YEAR
Calculus	5	163	III	Calculus	5	164	IV V
Physics	5	181	II III	Physics	5	181	II III
Construction	4	118	II III	Construction	4	i 18	II III
Design	8	121	II	Design	8	121	II
Drawing Theory of	2	142	Ila	Drawing	2	142	Ila
Design	1	121	Vila				
THIRD YEAR
Anal. Meehan.	5	135	VIII	Anal.Mechan’	2	135	VIII
Sanitary Eng.	2	138	XIII	Mechanics of			
Electricity	1	149	VII	Materials	3	136	X
Heating and				Sanitary Eng.	2	138	XIII
Ventilating	1	119	V	Surveying	3	133	II III
Hist, of Arch.	2	116	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	116	I
Struc. Design	8	121	V	Struc. Design	8	122	V
FOURTH YEAR
Arch. Eng.	2	119	IV	Arch. Eng.	3	119	.IV
Gridges and Roofs	5	139	XIV	Graphics History of	5	139	XV
Stereotomy	3	135	VI	Arch.	2	116	II
Hist, of Arch.	2	116	II	Bus. Ethics	2	120	I
Struc. Design	8	122	VI	Struc. Design Thesis	8	122	VI
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
105
SHORT PROGRAM
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P*ge	Course			P’ge	| Course
Hist, of Arch.	2	116	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	1 l6	I
Construction	4	118	I	Construction	4	Il8	I
Des. Geom. 1			III	Perspective	1	144	III
Shades and k	1	144		Drawing	1	142	Id
Shadows J				Pen and Ink	1	I46	XII
Drawing	1	142	Ic	El. of Arch.	4	121	IV
El. of Arch.	12	121	I '	Design	8	121	II
•				The’y of Des.	1	122	VII
SECOND YEAR
Hist, of Arch.	2	116	II	Hist, of Arch.	<• 2	116	II
Construction	4	118	II III	Construction	4	119	III
Graphics	2	139	XV	Graphics	2	139	XV
Heat and				Sanitation	2	120	VI
Ventilation	1	119	V				
Electricity	1	149	VII	Bus. Ethics	2	120	I
Water Color	1	146	XI	Drawing	4	142	Ila
Drawing	4	142	Ila	Modelling	2	143	V
Design	8	121	III	Design	8	121	III
1
io6
bulletin of the
THE COLLEGE OF LAW
For several years a systematic movement has been
in progress, under the auspices of the bench and bar
of the country to elevate the standing and promote
the efficiency of the legal profession, and make it as
learned in fact as it is in name. The most essential
preliminary step to this end, as lawyers generally agree,
is to prescribe requirements and examinations more
comprehensive and rigorous as a test of qualifications
for admission to the bar. Under the influence largely
of the American Bar Association, the period now
commonly prescribed for the study of law in a college
is three years.
A period of three years’ study is prescribed for under-
graduates in the College of Law of the University of
Notre Dame. The courses lead, when ' satisfactorily
completed, to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate program comprises an additional or fourth
year of residal study, and leads to the degree of Master
of Laws.
The degree of Doctor of Law (J. D.) or Doctor of
Civil Law (D. C. L.) presupposes the degree of Bachelor
of Laws and a Bachelor’s degree in Arts or Science.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location
of the University for diligent and persevering work,
it is possible for industrious students to do at least
a fourth more a year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into
three classes, corresponding to each year of the pro-
gram leading to fthe degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate course is for students who have received
that degree and aim at attaining, by further study
and practical work, to a higher grade of proficiency.
A full year of study in each class is obligatory. More-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
107
over the student must pass a satisfactory general
examination at the close of each scholastic year. Grad-
uates entitled to vote are admitted to the bar on motion
of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are
admitted to the first year on presentation of a cer-
tificate of graduation from a four year High School
or Preparatory School of recognized standing, or by
examination in subjects mentioned on page 21. It is
strongly recommended that students complete the work
prescribed for a Bachelor’s degree in one of the
Programs of the College of Arts and Letters, before
taking up the study of Law. It is impossible for
the student to give more than two years to work of
this nature, even that much is highly desirable.
Students from other reputable law schools are re-
ceived at any time and allowed due credit for the work
previously done. They must, however, be in residence
for at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice
of the profession or have only been admitted to the
bar, as the case may be, are admitted to the Senior
class and entitled to the degree appropriate to their
work and standing at graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not intend to become candidates
for the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply
to add to their educational acquirements a knowledge
of the fundamental principles of law, may at any time
in the year have their names enrolled on the list of
special students. No extra expense is thereby incurred.
Yet they must be of sufficiently advanced age and
education to justify the belief that they can under-
stand and appreciate instruction in the law. No
io8
bulletin or
particular academic entry requirement is prescribed
for them, aside from securing the consent of the Director
of Studies and being of sufficient age and capacity
to understand and profit by instruction in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that
an education is not complete without a knowledge of at
least the elementary legal principles. Many a person
has been forced to do exactly the contrary of
what he intended through his failure to understand
the essential elements of a contract. Many a one has
been compelled to pay heavy damages for personal
injuries caused by negligence, or failure to perform
a duty, or improper performance of. it, where no lia-
bility would exist if the law of torts had been known
and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
The study of cases is usually begun in September
and continues long enough to enable students to under-
stand, analyze and criticise the decision assigned to
them for study and recitation. Lectures and explana-
tions supplement this work. After thus familiarizing
themselves with cases, they are expected to read the
authorities cited daily in class, whether in the text-
books, lectures or quizzes, and must report on their
readings. In moot court work, likewise, they are
prepared for actual practice by making a careful study
not only of the cases in the reports, but also of those
cited in text-books and digests.
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of the
text-books they studied, and such as have merely
attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter-danger of being declared ineligible
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
IO9
to appear for examination. As many law students
come from States in which this test is applied, the
use of text-books is deemed necessary. The books
used by students become peculiarly serviceable in their
subsequent practice. They may be purchased in the
Students’ Office at the University at the lowest retail
prices. The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25
a year.
The lecture or dictation: system alone is regarded
at Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination
with text-book work, case readings and daily examina-
tions, its great value and utility can not be over-
estimated. Bach subject is fully covered by lectures,
text-book work, weekly quiz, monthly theses, bi-
monthly examinations, the reading of pertinent cases and
formal trials in the moot court and other courts of the
college. Students have also the advantage of attending
important cases in the higher courts of South Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrious student
can accomplish twice as much in a given time at Notre
Dame as he can in an office or at home. With com-
parative immunity from distractions and tempta-
tions of city life, he can give his entire time to study
and necessary recreation. In short, he can here study
a greater number of hours and do more class work
day by day than probably anywhere else in the country.
. Students have from three to four recitations daily,
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. Brom one to two hours additional
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
two hours weekly are required for moot court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this
society and the moot court offer exceptional opportunity
I IO
bulletin of the
and strong incentive to acquire readiness in debate,
fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much
benefit may be derived from attending the regular
classes in elocution and oratory in the College of Arts
and Letters.
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law Pro-
gram it is studied and kept before the class, with recita-
tions day by day at the same hour, until finished. It
is believed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would
be if frequently interrupted by the intervention of
other and dissimiliar subjects.
THE MOOT COURT
All third year students are required to attend and
participate in the exersises of the moot court. The
court is fully organized, having a judge, clerk, state’s
attorney, sheriff, coroner and reporter. Pleadings
are filed in the clerk’s office, served and returned by
the sheriff, brought to an issue with due formality by
the attorneys, and the trial proceeds under the rules
of evidence before a member of the Faculty acting
as judge.
In addition to the moot court, which corresponds
to the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully-
equipped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk,
master-in-chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its district
judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in their
6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
III
work. The statement of facts in the cases tried is furnish-
ed by the Faculty. Students acquire in this way a knowl-
edge of the customary procedure in the regular courts.
' THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Dame,’ but it may well be questioned whether
any of them shows any more care in the choice of
books, or is belter adapted for the use of students.
All the latest reports of State and Federal courts are
on its shelves, and no difficulty is experienced at any
time in finding the cases needed for reference, thesis
writing and moot court work. A great library with a
crowdingly large attendance of students—too many
to be personally known by or to have personal attention
from the Faculty—may often be less available for use
or accessible than a comparatively small one. It happens
sometimes in such cases that twenty or more students
are found vainly scrambling at the same time to secure
possession of a particular report or text-book. Such
experience, fortunately, does n^ot fall to the lot of the
young men studying at Notre Dame. Not only all the
latest reports, but likewise the leading text-books,
are to be found on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in Moot
court trials, but must not be carried to private rooms.
This rule is rigidly enforced by the librarian. It is
intended for the advantage and to facilitate the work
of the students in common, for all have a right to
feel reasonably certain that when a book is needed
it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
4,000, but so carefully have, they been selected that
they may be said to surpass in practical utility many
112
BULLETIN OF THE
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the law
lecture room. It is practically open all day and until
9:30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation are
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome
and comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable hours
to law students. The library privileges are on a generous
scale, and students are not specially charged for making
proper use of the books, but if a book is lost or injured
through negligence the cost of the book is charged to the
borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings weekly. First year students of the
College are members of it. They are required, each in
his turn, to participate in its debates and other exercises.
The debates commonly deal with questions germane to
the law, but subjects of history, political economy, and
the like, are also discussed; in addition, ?a thorough
drill in parliamentary law proceedings is given. An
excellent opportunity is afforded at the meeting of
the society to develop skill, power and fluency in public
speaking. One of the professors usually presides and
aids the members with his counsel and suggestions.
THE COURSES IN LAW
FIRST YEAR
Elements of Law. Fourteen weeks.
Real Property. Eighteen weeks.
Personal Property. Four weeks.
Criminal Law. Ten weeks.
Torts. Ten weeks.
Contracts. Sixteen weeks.
Persons and Domestic Relations. Ten weeks.
Sales. Eight weeks.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	113
Agency. Ten weeks.
Partnership. Bight weeks.
Bnglish I. Thirty-six weeks, three times a week.
Blocution, weekly.
SECOND YEAR
Criminal Procedure. Ten weeks.
Damages. Twelve weeks.
Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy. Pourteen weeks.
Suretyship and Guaranty. Fourteen weeks.
Bills and Notes. Sixteen weeks.
Interpretation of Laws. Six weeks.
Insurance. Twelve weeks.
Bailments and Carriers. Ten weeks.
Wills, Executors and Administrators. Fourteen weeks.
Medical Jurisprudence. Lectures.
Parliamentary Law and Debating, weekly.
Logic. Eighteen weeks, four hours a week. ■
Ethics. Eighteen weeks, four hours a week.
THIRD YEAR
Evidence, Civil and Criminal. Twelve weeks.
Constitutional Law. Twelve weeks.
Equity Jurisprudence. Twelve weeks.
Corporations, Private. Sixteen weeks.	'
1 Corporations, Public. Ten weeks.	,
International Law. Ten weeks.
Common Law Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Equity Pleadings. Twelve weeks.-
Code Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Moot Court. Practice weekly.	'
Graduate Courses cover the entire field by way
of review, together with Moot Court practice, office
work, etc. The optional studies include Roman law,
Admiralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright,
Patents, Trademarks, State’ and Federal Statutes, etc.
BULLETIN OF THE
114
SCHEDULE OF CLASSES
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS	WEEKS	PERIODS A WEEK
Elements of Law, Real and Personal Property				. . .36. . .	••-5-••
Criminal Law, Torts, Contracts		. . .36 . . .	• •-5-••
Persons, Agency, Sales, Partnership		. . .36. . .	• •-5-••
English, I		. . .36. . .	• •-3- • ■
Elocution III. IV		. . .36. . .	
second year SUBJECTS		
Criminal Procedure, Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy, Damages		. . .36. . .	...5. . .
Bills and Notes, Suretyship and Guaranty, Interpretation of Laws	    .	.	. . .36. . .	...5. . .
Insurance, Bailments and Carriers, Wills, Executors and Administrators		. . .36. . .	• •-5- • •
Logic, Ethics		. . .36. . .	...4...
Medical Jurisprudence, Lectures			...4...
Parliamentary Law and Debating		. . .36 . . .	. . . 1. . .
THIRD YEAR SUBJECTS		
Corporations, Public and Private, Inter- national Law				. . .36. . .	• • 5- • •
Evidence, Constitutional Law, Equity J urisprudence		. . .36. . .	••-5- • •
Common Law Pleadings, Equity Plead- ings, Code Pleadings	 Moot Court		- - -36 - • • . . .36. . .	• • -5- • . . . 1. . .
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
(In the description of the courses of instruction an
hour means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation
or lecture room and one hundred and twenty minutes in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year, or eighteen weeks.')
Il6	BULLETIN OF THB
ANATOMY
I.
Human Histology. Laboratory work and demon-
strations. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Human Physiology.
II.
Human Histology. Lectures, recitations and labo-
ratory work. The work covers a thorough course in
Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening,
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system—brain
and spinal cord, termination of nerve fibers, etc. Draw-
ings made from each preparation. Text-book, Piersol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Human Anatomy. Lectures and Recitations. Oste-
ology and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular,
vascular and nervous systems and of the organs of
special sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book,
Gray.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
ARCHITECTURE
I. AND II.
History of Architecture. This course includes
a study of the history, manners, customs, politics and
religion as well as of the Architecture of Egypt, Assyria,.
Greece and Rome. It takes up the rise and develop-
ment of Christianity and the Christian types—Basil-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME '	117
ican, Byzantine, Romanesque, Gothic and Renais-
sance in all their phases. Some attention is paid to
Oriental styles. A comprehensive review is made of
American work. In seminar the course is completed
by a study and discussion of the various phases of
“The New Art,” both abroad and in the United
States.
Instruction is by text-book, lectures, readings and
research.
[Two hours a week for four terms.]
*	III.
Historic Ornament. A study of the origin and
evolution of all styles of ornament, and of its appli-
cation to architectural forms.
Instruction by text-book, lectures, readings, and
drawings in various media.
Text-book, Glazier'. •
[Two hours a week for one term.] _
IV.
History or Sculpture. A brief historical review
of ancient and modern sculpture.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Marquand and Frothingham.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
!
y.
History or Painting. A brief historical and critical
review of Painting.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
n8
BULLETIN OF 'THE
CONSTRUCTION
I.
In this course the student obtains a thorough knowl-
edge of the materials and methods of masonry, car-
pentry, roofing, metal-working, painting. Bach trade
is considered separately, and at conclusion an exhaustive
study of specification writing and methods of estimat-
ing for it is made. Detail drawings of constructive
methods are made exactly as in an architect’s office.
In the spring term of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on the campus one of his pro-
jects, and to furnish all levels required by the builder
in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of the
architect’s level and compass.
The University constantly furnishes employment
to a large force of trained mechanics who will give
personal lessons to the students in all branches of these
trades. Inspection visits are made regularly as a
supplementary exercise in superintendence, to important
building operations in the neighborhood.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Fifteen points must be made in inspections and
drawings.
Text-book, Kidder's Building Construction, Vols. 1,
II; Kidder's Handbook. Supplementary, Sweet's Index.
[Four hours a week dor two terms.]
II.
A thorough study of foundation work—caissons,
piles, grillage, spread and stepped footings; fire proof-
ing of all forms; the design and construction of steel
framing.
Working drawings for one year of the student’s pro-
jects are made. Especial care and accuracy are de-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
119
manded in the preparation of the framing plans and
details.
Instruction is by text-books. and lectures. Bight
points must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vol. I; Frietag; Supplementary,
Sweet's Index, Carnegie and Bethlehem “Millbooks.”
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
A study of Reinforced Concrete; Blevators; Power
plants for buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Bive points must be made in inspection and drawings.
Text-books, Watson; Supplementary, Sweeps Index,
Concrete Handbooks.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Bngineering. A course in which
the student is taught to solve graphically and analyt-
ically more complicated problems in structural design
and applied mechanics. Shoring, underpinning, retain-
ing walls, jointed trusses, arches, vaults and domes
are the more important topics.
Instruction by text-book. Twelve points must be
made in instructions and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vols. I, III; Whitmann.
[Two hours a week for one term, three hours a week.
for one term.]
V.
Heating and Ventilation. This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating are carefully examined and studied.
The radiation of heat from furnaces, the different
120
BUWTTIN or TH$
systems of piping, condition of air 'as to moisture,
amount of air required, causes and best means adopted
to secure pure air; the necessity of good ventilation
and the latest approved methods of securing this are
some of the topics considered in this study.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Carpenter.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Sanitation. The following are the topics covered in
this course: The carrying away of surface water and
wastes from the building; pipes and fittings; one and
two-pipe roughing-in systems; traps; domestic waste
supplies; pumping engines; heating of water for
domestic purposes; plumbing fixtures.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Cosgrove.
[pne hour a week for one term.]
BUSINESS ETHICS
I.
In this course are given descriptions of a system of
book-keeping suited to the needs of an . architect’s
business, a system of building accounts, filing systems
for catalogue and prints, a card index system for prints
and general information; of forms for agreements with
bonds, and for certificates; the laws affecting clients,
contractors and architects; and the rules of professional
ethics in private practice, competitions and municipal
affairs.	'
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Wait.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
W	. « V. • *
/ ■
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
121
DESIGN
I.
Elements oe Architecture. This is a course of
drawing. Thirty-two plates of standard size (or their
equivalent) will be made during the year. They consist
of measured drawings of the Roman and Greek orders,
- of the various details associated with them and of
simple problems involving their use; of lettering; of
exercises in wash and color; and of studies in shades
and shadows and perspective.
Each plate will be examined by the Professor in charge,
and may be marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest
Mention,” counting X, M or E point, respectively.
All plates must be drawn and at least fifteen points
registered.
Instruction' is by text-book.
Text-books, Ware won Mauch, McGoochwin.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
II,	III, AND IV.
These courses are the most important on the program.
In the solving of the problems the student makes use
of every item of information that he has acquired in
all his other class-work, for the aim of the instruction
in design is, primarily, practicability. The planning is
straightforward, logical and direct; the design is
powerful, simple, and expressive. The method is
criticism. The means are major and minor problems
of varying degrees of difficulty varying from a masonry
gate-post to the most monumental projects. These
problems are stated in programs that are made definite
and practical and as like actual conditions as possible.
X22
BURRRTIN OB THR
Second year men are required to execute eight minor
and eight major problems; third year men, eight minor
and six major problems;' and fourth year men, four
minor and three major problems and the thesis.
These designs are criticised by the Professor in charge,
or by some able architect especially invited. They may
be marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest Mention,”
counting Bo X or 1 point respectively for minor prob-
lems, and 2, 3, or 4 points for major problems.
Bifteen points must be registered in second year
design, as many in third year design, and eight in
fourth year design before thesis work is started.
[Bight, eight and ten hours a week,
respectively, for three years.]
V, VI.
Structural Drsign. These courses have the same
relative importance as the courses in design. The
analogy goes further, the work is given as major and
minor problems of varing degrees of difficulty and
is judged and marked in the same manner. The scope
of the problems will vary from the making of an ordinary
footing plan to the framing of the structural steel of
a large dome.
The amount of work and the points required to be
registered is the same for the same year under Design
II, III, IV.
[Bight hours a week for three years.]
VII.
(a) Throry or Drsign. A thorough study of the prin-
ciples of planning and proportion supplemented by
study of the perfection and faults of the world’s famous
buildings.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	12 3
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Robinson.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(5)	Church Design. This course is conducted by mean
of lectures and research. It includes the. arrangements
of sanctuaries, sacristies and baptisteries as affected
by liturgical needs. The subject of church furniture
and accessories is also discussed.
• [One hour a week for one term.]
ASTRONOMY *
a
Astronomy. Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students
and to give them the training and information necessary
for intelligently executing certain departments of work
to which they may be assigned in the course of their
professional career. The course comprises a study of’
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of
more precision than those used in ordinary surveying.
The adjustments and use of these instruments are
considered, and instruction is given in methods of
observation and computation; problems in finding
right ascensions and declination; different methods for 1
finding altitude, longitude and time are studied in
detail, and the methods for finding right ascensions and
declination; different methods for finding latitude,
longitude and time are studied in detail, and the methods
of making the observation and their adjustments, and
discussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into
sidereal, and sidereal time into solar. In connection
with this subject is given a more complete study of
many of the topics considered in elementary astronomy,
as here they are treated mathematically; as for example,
124
BUTTBTIN OB THB
methods for finding parallax, computation of eclipses,
altitudes and correction for refraction. The subjects of
procession, nutation, annual aberration, proper motion
of stars, etc., are studied. Text-books, Young, Greene.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY
LrcturBS and Laboratory Work. Lectures on the
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
pointed out. The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture
media and in studying pure cultures of certain non-
pathogenic bacteria in these media. Observations on
the microscopic characteristics of bacteria and special
attention to the microscopic technique in bacteriological
work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic
germs by the various staining processes. Inoculation of
animals. Bacteriological investigation of water, air and
soil. Text-book, Abbott’s Principles of Bacteriology.
[Live hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	125
BOTANY
I.
Botany. Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the
development of the embryo and the processes of pollina-
tion and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell,
of its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and
the various physiological phenomena; the structure,
growth, reproduction and general classification of the
algae, fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants.
Text-book, Bastin's College Botany, Barnes & Coulter.
pour hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Botanic ad Laboratory. Supplementary to Course I.
Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryophta,
pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in Course I.
Drawings must be made of all plants examined. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become familiar with their morphol-
ogy, structure and classification. The course is to ac-
company or to be preceded by Course I. Provision is
also made in this course for students in pharmacy to take
a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical botany.
Study of the determination and classification of the
simpler plants. The analysis of the phanerogams
occupies the time during the spring months and the
student is made familiar with the habitat and charac-
teristics of the local flora. Text-book for classification
of plants, Kellerman's Spring Flora.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Botany. Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same
a
' 126	bulletin or THE
as that laid out in Strasburger’s or Vine’s text-book of
Botany. Special study is made of the physiology,
ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and classification of
plants. Text-book, Strasburger.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany. Supplementary
to Course III., and either following or accompanying it :
(a) Ptant Histology and Physiology. Half of the
time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to plant
histology and physiology. The student is required to
study practically the method of killing, fixing, embed-
ding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of
plant tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(&) Plant Classification Advanced. The other
half of the laboratory work is devoted to the deter-
mination and classification of the more difficult plants,
the compositae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc.
Herbarium study is required, as well as preparing and
collecting plants for preservation. During spring and
autumn frequent excursions into the neighboring fields
and woods are made for the purpose of studying and
collecting for preservation the local aquatic and land
flora. Text-book, Britton’s or Gray’s Manual.
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Systematic Botany. Principally laboratory and her-
barium work, in special groups of phanerogams and
cryptogams. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in botany. Library,
reference books and seminar work.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
127
Graduate Work in Botany. Original research in
systematic botany. Plant history and cytology. Pre-
paratory to the Master’s or Doctor’s Degree.
CHEMISTRY
I.
(a)	GenERAE Chemistry. A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book, Maguire’s Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(6)	A Laboratory Course covering in the labora-
tory the work of the Course (I. a.) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A complete study of the elements and their
most important compounds, following the classification
based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a discussion
of the theories of the science. Text-book, Alexander
Smith’s College Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(&) Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory course
to accompany Course II., the work consisting of the
preparation by the student of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, there
is taken up the study of the reactions involved in the
separation and detection of the more common inorganic
bases and acids, the analysis of salts,. mixtures of salts,
128
BULLETIN OB THE
and the complex substances, such as earths, ores, ashes,
etc. Text-books, Perkin and Thorp, supplemented with
lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Qualitative Analysis. A course arranged for the
students in Pharmacy, comprising a study of the com-
moner metals and acids, their reactions and separation.
Text-book, Perkin.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Quantitative Analysis. Course suited to the needs
of the students in Pharmacy, comprising the deter-
mination of substances, both gravimetrically and vol-
umetrically. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
V.
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Complete analysis of a number of
simple salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis
of many complex substances. Text-book, Talbot.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
(a) BlEmEntary Organic Chemistry. Lectures
and recitations. A systematic study of the hydro-
carbons and their derivatives^ and the investigation of
their properties. Special attention is given to the
aliphatic and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Pive hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	129
(b)* Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prep-
aration by the student in the laboratory of the most
important and typical organic compounds and the
investigation of their properties. Text-book, Gaiter-
man's Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]	,
VII.	’
(a) Urine Analysis. A course of laboratory exer-
cises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as
well as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b} Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of poi-
soning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
1.	Gas Analysis.
11.	Water Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis. '	'■
v.	Oils and Eats.	.
vi.	Iron Analysis.
Text-books, Hempel, Mason, Wiley and current journals.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.] *
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects

130	' BULLETIN OF THE
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. The term
is spent principally in the making of organic prepara-
tions by methods demanding special care, skill and
accuracy in the student. '
[Six to eight hours a week for two terms.]
I
n
(c)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. This term
is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,
special notes and reference work.
[Bight hours a week for one term.]
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this
course the chemical bases and their compounds are
considered, with special reference to their importance
in pharmacy and materia medica. Text-books, Sadtler’s
and Trimble’s Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
XI.
(a)	Electrochemistry. Lectures and recitations
on the principles of electrochemistry and their appli-
cation in the chemical industries, separation of metals,
the preparation of chemical elements and electrosyn-
thesis of compounds. Text-book, Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	131
(b)	EeEctrochEmicae Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electro-
chemistry, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electro-
metallurgy. Text-book, Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.] '
(c)	EeECTrochEmicae Anaeysis. A laboratory
course for those who have completed (a) and (ft).
Quantitative determination and separation of metals
and anions electrolytically using stationary and revel-
ing electrodes, the mercury cathode and their combina-
tions. Text-book, Smith's Electro-Analysis.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History oe Chemistry. The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book.
Meyer. Reference to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(a)	Physicae Chemistry. Lectures and recitations.
A mathematical exposition of chemical theory on the
subject of gas density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the
phase rule, thermochemistry, photo-chemistry, etc.
Text-book, Jones.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Experimentae Physicae Chemistry. Labo-
ratory work to accompany Course XIII (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, mole-
132
BULLETIN OB THE
cular weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling
point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric deter-
minations of inorganic substances. Special reference
work. [Five hours a week for one term.]
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine.
FIRST YEAR
Introduction to Scripture. Reading of the Bible.
SECOND YEAR
Moral and Dogma as found in Wilmer’s Handbook
of the Christian Religion or a similar work.
THIRD YEAR
Apologetics. Religion. Pre-Christian Revelation.
The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church.
0
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	133
FOURTH YEAR
Church History. A brief survey of the general
history of the Church. Special attention to more
important periods.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are con- ’
sidered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, double curved, and warped surfaces;
problems relating to tangent planes, to single curved,
double curved and warped surfaces; intersection of
surfaces; spherical projections; orthographic, stere-
ographic, globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
construction of maps, shades and shadows; linear per-
spective; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises requiring
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry,
are added by the instructor. Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supply omis-
sions; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land;
dividing up land: public lands survey. Text-book,
Breed and Hosmer.
[Three hours a week.for one term.]
134	BULLETIN OF THE
III.
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught
in the class room; practice in keeping field notes;
computation and plots.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complele
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II,
and can not be taken until the completion of that
course. It treats of the adjustment, use, and care of
all kinds of engineering instruments; problems pertain-
ing to solar attachment; topographical surveying with
the transit and stadia; mining surveying, mining claims;
survey of mines with shafts and drifts; determining
positions of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface;
Hydrographic surveying which comprises a study of
the methods of making soundings and locating the
same; the use of bench-marks, gauges, and water
levels; stream measurement, methods and instruments
used. City surveying, including a study of re-surveys,
topographic surveys, city plan, location of streets,
width of grades, field notes, indexing and records.
Text-book, Johnson.
[Five hours a week for twelve weeks.]
Surveying. Bxercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the fields, leveling; practice in
hydrographic surveying.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	I35
VI.
Geodesy. This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil and Mining Engineering students and comprises
a study of the instruments and methods of observation,
base measurements and field work of the triangulation;
method of least squares, elementary course; calcula-
tion of the triangulation, the theory of probable errors;
geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is
followed by a brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
Text-book, Johnson.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VII.
Raidroad Surveying. This course comprises all
the theory pertaining- to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets; obstacles to location of curves;
special problems in curves; theory of compound curves;
turnouts and crossings; curving the rail on curves and
elevation of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical
curves; earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory
of excavation and embankment; correction in excava-
tion on curves; cross-section leveling; theory of the
transition curve and practical applications. Text-book,
Crandall.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Raidroad Surveying. Exercise in the field; staking
out and running tangents, simple, compound and tran-
sition curves; execution on the ground of many prob-
lems previously treated theoretically; survey for a short
line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and'setting
slope stakes; making profiles and maps; calculating
136
bulletin or the
the necessary excavations and embankments and cost
of construction; culverts.
IX.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises
a study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
student to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation
of energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of-inertia,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction,
etc.
[Tor Civil Engineering Students, five hours a week for
first term. Two hours a week for second term.]
[Tor Students in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, and
Mining Engineering, five hours a week for
fourteen weeks.]
Mechanics'or Materials. This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students,
and to prepare them, by study of the action and effect
of forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of
the materials of engineering, their properties and method
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and con-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
137
tinuous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns
are examined according to Buler’s, Rankin’s and other
formulae, and results compared. Some of the other
subjects considered in this course are torsion of shafts,
the transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and
torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams, rein-
forced concrete beams, plate girders and other forms.
Then is studied the subjects, resilience and work,
impact and fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal
tension and flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,
the course closing with a study of the mathematical
theory of elasticity.
[For students of Civil Bngineering, three hours a week
for two terms.]
[For students of Blectrical, Mechanical, Mining and
Chemical Fngineering, three hours a week
for twenty-two weeks.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended
to familiarize the student with the practical details
of laying out and constructing highways, the method
of drainage, grading, and most suitable road covering,
the improvement of streets in cities and materials
used for paving and covering. The manner of pre-
paring the street before paving is placed in position is
fully considered and illustrated. The course includes
a thorough discussion of the theory of pavements and
a description of the various materials used, such as
cobble afid stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood and broken
stone pavements. The method of preparing plans
and specifications for the various conditions arising
are considered and original plans are prepared by
students. Attention is. also "given to the construction
138
BULLETIN OF THE
of street-car tracks in paved streets. Text-book,
Baker.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering. This course is taken by students
of Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches
the best approved methods of constructing engineer-
ing works and the styles of structures suitable for
different localities. The study is quite comprehensive,
including the general theory of the arch and appli-
cation of the voussoir arch; the theory of earth pressure,
and the design of retaining walls; foundations suit-
able for structures of various classes in connection
with which the student becomes acquainted, not only
with the methods for ascertaining the bearing power
of the foundation, but also the means for constructing
deep foundations. The methods for tunnel construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included
in the course and given by text-book and lectures.
The part pertaining to masonry construction includes
a study of the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the
manner of testing foundations under water, the crib
and open caisson process, the pneumatic process, the
theory of masonry arches and design, arch centers,
selection of site for bridge piers and arrangement
of spans, the details of construction of bridge piers
and manner of location, specifications for masonry,
etc. Text-books, Howe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Eive hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study
of the principles and methods of drainage and disposal
of sewage in populous districts: shape, material and
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
139
calculation of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ven-
tilation; separate and combined systems compared;
pollution of rivers; chemical precipitation; results
and costs of purification; general municipal and do-
mestic sanitation; inspection of neighboring works.
Text-books, Staler and Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
•	XIV.
Bridges and Roots. This course comprises a
study of the different systems of trussed bridges and
roof trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced
when loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure
and the effect of wind included. Both graphical and
analytical methods are used. Besides the various
systems of trussed bridges, which are studied in detail
the plate girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges,
draw bridges, and roofs of various designs are given
equal attention; the purpose being to familiarize
the student with the different forms and enable him
to design and to estimate the cost of construction.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Rive hours a week for one term.]
'	XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically deter-
mined by the application of the principles of the force
and equilibrium polygons; also the determination of
stresses in bridge trusses with parallel chords and with
broken chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive
wheel loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof
trusses, graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical
140
bulletin or the
and unsymmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-
ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed ends;. stress diagrams;
temperature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied
to continuous girders. This course is supplemented
by full explanations, notes, examples and problems.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
An elementary course two hours a week for two
terms is given to students following the Program
in Design and Short Program in Architecture.
XVI.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydro-
dynamics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects admitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem
with friction: Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula;
flow over wires, and through tubes; flow in pipes;
loss of head in friction and other losses; flow in conduits,
canals, and rivers, velocities in cross sections; methods
of gauging the flow, measurement of water power,
dynamic pressure of flowing water; designing of water-
works and standpipes; hydraulic motors and relative
merits; discussion of water wheels of different types,
and a study of the conditions determining high ef-
ficiencies; classification of turbines, and a complete
study and discussion of the different forms.
[For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a
week for two terms.]
[For students in Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and
ClieLmcal Engineering, two hours a week5 for
twenty-two weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	141
DRAWING, ARTISTIC
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough
foundation in drawing for those who wish to make
Art a profession, but the courses are so arranged as
to be accessible to other students. The system of
teaching, which is that followed in the best art schools,
is intended to develop the individuality of each student,
so that with a good understanding of the principles
of art he may interpret nature according to his own
temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, objects and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the Uni-
versity buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River
offer many, beautiful subjects for the study of land-
scapes, and the classes are taken out in the summer
for this study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was carefully selected at the National School
of Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
Fuel Figure. The Diadumenos (British Museum);
the Doryphoros (Naples). These two figures are
full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically:
the Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michael
Angelo; theAchilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre) ;
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads. Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol); Cato (Rome, and Vatican); Cicero
(Rome, the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa
(Louvre); Venus (Vatican); Centurion (Naples);
Ariadne (the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples);
Vestal (Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters
of Niobe (Florence.)
142
BULLETIN of thb
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.,
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and
architectural, ornaments, taken from monuments of
antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and
of elements of the human figure (hands, feet, etc.)
from the antique and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(a)	Drawing from casts or ornaments purely geo-
metrical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc.
Sketching from simple objects.
(b)	Drawing from casts of ornaments o’f which
the elements are living forms, t such as ornamental
leaves and flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves
and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on
perspective, direction of the principal lines in relation
to the horizon. Blementary notions of the five orders
of architecture.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure; hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketch-
ing from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a)	Drawing from the antique, heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape.
Applications of perspective.
(6)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketch-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
143
ing from the costumed model. Still life in water
colors. History of Art.
III.
LIRE Crass. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science
Hall. Still life painting in water colors and oil. Land-
scape painting. Drawing for illustrations.
IV.
Sketch Crass. One hour a week. The students have
among themselves an organization, ‘"The Crayon Club,”
the object of which is to sketch college scenes and to
do illustrative work; these sketches are brought into
class and criticised.
V.
Modering. In the spring term of the Senior year,
Architecture modeling in clay is taken up. The objects
modeled are architectural forms, copied from casts or
made from the student’s drawings of his ownjwork, as
his progress and ability may warrant.
VI.
Crass of Decorative Design. The object of
this department is to prepare students for professional
work in decorative designing of all kinds. They will
take up the study of historical ornaments and will
be taught the several principles of the arrangement
of designs, and from personal sketches of plants and
flowers will be shown the art of making original de-
signs for wall paper, book covers, stained glass, carpets,
interior decorations, metal plates, etc. No particular
program is given out as the teaching is purely individual.
s
144	bulletin of the
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
Drawing A and B (see pages 201, 203) are required
to take up drawing I, II.
Two hours of actual time in drawing are required
for each credit hour in the schedule.
I.
Freehand. This course consists in sketching with pen-
cil from various models of the different machine parts.
Later in the term, the use of instruments is taken up
illustrating problems in the Engineering course. Text-
book, Jdmisoris Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the
principles of projection, methods of shop-drawing,
tinting, tracing, blueprinting, lineshading and the
preparation of working drawings of complete machines.
This course must be preceded by course I. Text-
book, famisoris Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates
is* made, illustrating the principles of orthographic
and spherical projections, shades and shadows, per-
spective and isometric projections.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing. Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of machines involv-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	145
ing the application of kinematics and the computation
of dimensions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course
I. Text-book, Reed.
VI.
StereoTomy. This course comprises a study of
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geom-
etry to the determination of the forms and sizes of
the stones used in the construction of the different
classes of arches and masonry structures. This course
is given by lectures in the drawing room, explaining
the construction of templates, and the use of directing
instrument; also explanations of methods of draw-
ing plans, elevation and development of oblique arches,
wing walls and the like. A certain number of plates
• and drawings is required, illustrating the methods of
performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry construction, foundations, dams, piers,
abutments, culverts, and arches. Text-book, French.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from simple
framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of various
designs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineering.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail draw-
ings,—a short general course of bridge designing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
146
bulletin of the
VIII.
Machin# Drawing. A continuation of Course I.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical de-
sign with calculation of dimensions and construction
of drawings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low's
✓
Machine Drawing and Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Freehand. The principles of freehand drawing
in pencil and pen from objects, and later from bio-
logical specimens, plants, animals and microscopical
preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
X.
Freehand. Advanced drawing from plants and
anatomical dissections of animals. Illustrations for
publications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.] •
XI.
Water Coeor. Drawing in water color from still
life and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
Rendering in Water Coeor. ‘ The rendering of
o
architectural drawings, including perspectives,—cast-
ing of shadows, color treatments of buildings and
handling of foreground and background.
[One hour a -week for one term.]
XIII.
PEN and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and. ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art;
followed by rendering of original drawings. •
[One hour a week for one term.]
6
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME ‘	147
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Applied Electricity. A course of lectures and »
recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on
the general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
application to practical work, as follows: Setting up
and testing primary and secondary batteries, systems
of call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire
and burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines,
switch boards and accessories. Experiments with
induction coils, magnets, switches, voltmeters, am-
meters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers and other
measuring instruments. The study of direct current
generators and motors, arc and incandescent lighting
systems, street railway machinery and appliances, elec-
tric heating and forging, electrolytic process, etc.
Text-book, Swoope’s Practical Electricity.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
. IL
Appeied Electricity. Lectures and laboratory work
•	b
on the construction and testing of switches, magnets,
measuring instruments, induction coils, etc. The
calculation Of sizes of wire and location of circuits for
lighting and power, the experimental study of alternat-
ing current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to
special purposes. This course must be preceded by
Course I. (Course I, and II. are required in the Short
148	bulletin of thf
Program Electrical Engineering; they are elective fo^
general students and those studying telegraphy.)
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Dynamo-Bi^ctric Machinery. Recitations on the
physical reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical
points, theory of armature winding, the mathematical
theory of alternating currents, phase relations, modern
"forms of single phase, and multiphase generators and
motors, design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon's
Dynamo Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason's Alter-
nating Currents.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Fwctrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring
buildings for lights and power, testing circuits for
insulation and grounds, construction and operation of
storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
characteristic curves of particular machines under
different conditions, efficiency tests of motors by
absorption dynamometer methods, alternating current
dynamo and transformer tests, the testing of storage
batteries, and complete plant efficiency tests. Careful
notes are taken.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
Designing. The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location
of circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawing
of direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	149
VI.	-
Dynamo Machinery. Laboratory. Study of funda-
mental principles, characteristics of D. C. dynamos,
speed and torque of motors, A. C. generators and motors,
transformers and accessories, power measurements and
efficiency tests.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
VII.	:
Applied BdEctricity, Laboratory and Lectures
on the use of electricity in buildings, systems of wiring,
materials used, the Underwriting requirements for
study of bells and telephones, electric lighting, phyto-
metry and illumination. Tor students in Architecture.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Power Transmission. Lectures and recitations on
pole lines, underground work, limits of voltage, insu-
lators, choice of frequency, cost of construction, de-
preciation and other financial matters.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
BdEcTric Raidways. Lectures and recitations on
track and overhead construction, cars, trucks, motors
and systems of control for both direct and alternat-
ing current, sub-stations, operation ■ and financial
considerations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
TedEphony. Laboratory and lectures on general
principles, intercommunicating systems, switchboard
systems, manual and automatic, operation, cost of
equipment, maintenance and depreciation.
[One hour a week for one term.]
150
bulletin of the
XI.
Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony. Experi-
mental practice and lectures on the theories involved
in the construction and operation .of the leading systems,
osculators and sending apparatus, detectors and receiv-
ing devices, turning to prevent interference.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Illuminating Engineering. Lectures on the theory
and operation of the various kinds of electric and
other lamps, distribution of light and the location of
lamps to produce the best illumination, practical
problems and thy study of particular institutions,
the cost per candle power or per candle foot including
first cost, attendance, breakage and depreciation.
[Two hours a week for ten weeks.]
XIII.
Inspection Trip to Chicago. Study of the larger
power, lighting and telephone installations also factory
methods in several typical industrial establishments,
trips to the hydraulic and steam generating plants
along the St. Joseph river.
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I.
Readings and Declamations. This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Each
student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of
Course I. Each student is required to give three
declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
_	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	151
III.
Practical Elocution. Exercises in breathing, voice
culture, and action. The principles of pronunciation
and emphasis and their application in the reading of
selections, Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s Practical
Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
. IV.
Practical Eeocution. Further exercises in breath-
ing, voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and
time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on
the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and True-
blood’s Practical Elocution.
V.	‘
Orae Discussions. . The application of formal logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and
a course in logic are required for admission to this
course. Sections are limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Oratory. A study of the great orators of ancient and
modern times. Each student is required to write and
deliver a biographical oration on one of the great
orators. Lectures on methods of public address. Courses
III. and IV. above, and course I. in English are required
for admission to this course. Sections are limited to
twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VII.
Shakespearean Reading. The critical and artistic
reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with
stage action. The students present the play by scenes
152	BURDRTIN OF THF
before the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for
admission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-
four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
.	VIII.
Assembly Work. This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists
u
of debates, short orations, minute speeches, declama-
tions, impromptu and drill work in parliamentary law.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
*
ENGLISH	*
I.
Grnung’s Principdfs of Rhetoric. A study of the
complete text. Frequent practice in simple theme work,
versification. Writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.*
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.	’
(a) Rssay and Oration. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(&) Portry and thb Ports. Texts, theory and
critical study.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
III.
Fiction, (a) The Short Story, technically, histori-
cally and critically considered.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(6)	The Novel, technically, historically and critically
considered.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
* Rvery Freshman will be obliged to follow a class in correct English, one
hour a week, until his written work gives evidence that he may be dispensed
from this special exercise.	v
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	153
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
IV.
The Drama, (a) Henne quin's The Art of Playwriting.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
.(6) Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of
Shakespeare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen weeks.]
(c) Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present
time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects specified attention will be given
to current productions with a view of properly ac-
quainting the student with the writers of the day.
Graduate Work in English. Students wishing to
do advanced work in English will be provided with
library facilities and led through the usual work for the
degree of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Eaculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form
or epoch, or a ’comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures 1
by professors make up the course.
GEOLOGY
I.
Principles or Geology. Lectures, recitations, dem-
onstrations. The study of the general features of the
earth; the material composing the accessible parts of
•the earth; the arrangements of the material in rocks;
the causes of geological changes; the history of the
earth and the various forms of life that existed in the
154
bulletin or the
different periods of successive geological ages. Text-
book, Brigham.
[Four hours a- week for one term.]
II.
Mineralogy. The object of this course is to train
the student to identify minerals by their physical
characteristics, such as crystal form, cleavage, color,
hardness and specific gravity without having to resort
to blowpipe or chemical tests except in the rare minerals.
Recitations are made upon drawers of minerals in which
the student points out the distinguishing features by
which he recognizes the different minerals. Text-
book, Dana.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
o III.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.	.
Crystallography. In this course there is made a
complete study of the laws in the different systems of
crystal formation, by means of laboratory work in
models, natural crystals and cleavage specimens. Text-
book, Williams.
V.
Petrography. This course is a study of rocks with
regard to their classification, structure, mineralogical
constituents, chemical composition and alterations; a
study of the physical characters of the minerals shown
* in thin transparent rock sections with the aid of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
155
microscope; a practical study of rocks in the hand
specimens and also in summer field work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Geology, Physical and Chemical. A course treating
of the origin and alterations of rocks, of general eruptive
and earthquake action, metamorphism, faulting, joint-
ing, and mountain building: the action of atmospheric
agencies, surface and underground water. All of which
subjects are especially considered in their application
to mining pursuits. Text-book, Chamberlain and Salis-
bury’s Geology.
• [Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Geology, Economic Mining. A study of the genesis
of the useful ore deposits, both metallic and non-
metallic; an analysis of the relation existing between
structural, dynamic and chemical geology, petrography
and the ore deposits encountered in mining operations.
Erequent reference is made to the bulletins, monographs
and reports of the United States Geological Survey.
Text-books, Spurr, Reis.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
GERMAN
I.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation from German into
English of simple prose; translation of English exercises
into Germfan. Reading of short stories and selections
from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Eive hours a week for two terms.]
BULLETIN OB THE
156
II.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history. Sight
reading of selections from history. ’
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Dour hours a week for two terms.] .
III.	.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems
and prose writing. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; .Best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
pour hours a week for two terms. [
GREEK
I.
Homer. Iliad. Text Edition.
Lysias. Select Orations.
Sr. John Chrysostom. Eutropius. (Elective.)
Prose Composition.
pour hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Homer. Odyssey. Text Edition. (Elective.)
Selections from Herodotus.
St. Basil. De Profanis Scriptoribus. '
St. Gregory. Machabees. (Elective.)
Advanced Prose Composition.
pour hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Demosthenes. The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics.
Thucydides. One book, selected. (Elective.)
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
157
Aeschyeus. One play, selected. (Elective.)
SophoceES. Oedipus Tyrannus.
Primer oe Greek Literature. J ebb.
[Four hours a week for two ’terms.]
Buripedes. One play, selected.
Aristophanes. One play, selected.
Pindar. Selected Odes. (Elective.)
Greek Bathers: St. Basil: The Martyr Gordius.—
St. John Chrysostom: The Return of Bishop Blavian.—
St. Gregory Nazianzen: Buneral Oration of Caesarius.
(Elective.)
Peato. The Apology and Crito.
Thesis. Subject assigned or selected with approval
of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Bour hours a week for two terms.] •
Graduate Work in Greek. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Greek language and literature will be
provided for graduate students who look forward to
the Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work
will be the Greek seminar, devoted to the interpretation
of passages selected for that' purpose by the director
of the seminar, and to a critical study of one particular
author or of a group of authors in the same department
of Greek literature; as for instance, Homer, Plato or
the orators, the historians, the dramatists, etc.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of comparative philology, on
comparative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
Bor those who desire a broader basis for their lin-
guistic studies, an elementary course in Sanskrit will
be offered.
158	bulletin of the’
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of
the Hellenic world. Readings and examinations on
required tests.
[Hour hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions.
Readings, and examinations on required texts.
In both courses the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges' The Ancient City.
. [Four hours a week for one term.]
MEDIAEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
•	II.
(a) The History of the Middle Ages from the
invasion of the barbarians, and the history of the
periods of the Reniassance and the Reformation to the
French Revolution. Readings, and examinations on
required texts.	'
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&)	The General History of Burope from the
French Revolution to the present time. Readings, and
examinations on required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
The History of the British Isles to the Rev-
olution in 1769. For the narrative Gardiner's Student's
History is used as a text and is supplemented by lectures.
In the study of the development of political institutions
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	159
Feilderis Constitutional History is used. In addition,
students shall make free use of the library in preparing
special topics upon which they will report in class.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
*
AMERICAN HISTORY
IV.
(a)	American History from Its Beginning to
the Present Time. A large part of the work of this
and the following course consists in the preparation
and presentation in class of special topics by the students.
An effort will be made to train the student in the use
of original sources as well as in the discriminating use
of secondary works. Weekly written tests are given
upon the lectures and the assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(6)	American Church History from Its Begin-
ning to the Present time.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IRISH HISTORY
(a) Irish History from the Earliest Colonists
to the Present Time. The purpose of the course is to
acquaint the student with the true story of Ireland by
presenting a statement of facts. Early Irish religious
beliefs, customs, racial characteristics, systems of
government are discussed, and specific topics are as-
signed for research work.
(5) A course of lectures on the modern Celtic move-
i6o
BULLETIN OB TH#
ment witli a study of the modern Irish writers.'
[Four hours a week for one term.]
.	POLISH HISTORY ‘
VI.	'
History of the primitive Slavs. The Rise of the Polish
Nation. The Rpoch of the Piast-Dynasty (962-1386).
The Jagiellonian Bpoch (1386-1572).
Poland during the rule of the Flector Kings (1572-
1795)-
Poland in its Partitions. From 1795 to the present
time. Polish ^migration.
No particular text-book is used in this course. It
is a lecture-course; and the student is required to
read up the principal authors, along the line of the
notes gathered from the lecture in class.
RBSBarch Work in History. Facilities are offered
to graduate students who wish to do advanced work
in history leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s
degree. Evidence of ability to begin specializing
must be given by candidates who have received their
Bachelor’s degree at another College. The work is
directed in the seminar and is supplemented by lectures.
JOURNALISM
I.
History and Development of Journalism up to the
present day. Studies of leading journalists in the past.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	l6l
II.
Newsgathering and reporting; preparation of copy;
copy-reading; proof-reading; editorial writing. Amer-
' ican Politics and Government.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Newspaper Administration; Advertising; the Juris-
prudence of Journalism; Modern European History
and Politics as reflected in the press.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Newspapermaking; Comparative Journalism; De-
partment work. Special lectures on the ethics of Journal-
ism. Special Problems connected with Trades Unions
and Combinations of Capital.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
LATIN
I.
Livy. Selections. Dennison.
VErgid. Bucolics and; Georgies. Frieze.
Cicero. De Senectute^and De - Amicitia. Shuck-
burgh-Egbert.	-
Pros# Composition. Scheier.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
162
BULLETIN OB THB
II.
CicBRO. De Oratore. Wilkins.
Horace. Odes and Satires. Wickham.
Advanced Pros# Composition. Scheier.
[Dive hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Livy. Book I. Dennison.
Horace. The Literary Ppistles and the Ars Poetica.
Wickham.
Tacitus. Agricola and Germania. Gudeman.
TBRBNCB. One Play, selected.
Original Thumbs. (Two a month.)
Seminar. Papers on the Authors and their Works.
(Once a month).
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Quintilian. De Institutione Oratoria, Book X. and
XII. Frieze,
Plautus. Captivi. . Barber
Cicbro. De Ofliciis. Crowell
A ThKSIS. Subject assigned or selected with approval
of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
Graduate Work in Latin. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Latin language and literature will
be provided for graduate students who are candidates
for the degree of Master or Doctor. The work will be
directed in the seminar and be devoted to a critical
study of one particular author or group of authors.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on comparative philology and comparative
grammar.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	163
MATHEMATICS
L .
AegEbra. This course includes a study of the bino-
mial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows
a thorough study of the general properties and solution
of equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives,
transformation, detached coefficients, surd and imagi-
nary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, DesCartes' and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem, Horner’s method. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Dive hours a week for one term.]
II.
AnaeyTic Geometry. This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections; their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of
the second degree containing two variables; different
systems of co-ordinates; transformation of co-ordinates;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane and surfaces
of revolution; transformation of co-ordinates; quadric
surfaces and supplementary propositions. Text-book,
Bailey and Woods.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Caecueus, Differentiae. This course as also Courses
IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements of
Engineering students. It includes a study of the methods
for the differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and
exponential, trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric
functions, successive differentiation, and differential
coefficients; treatment of implicit and compound
functions; expansion of functions; indeterminate forms;
164
BULLETIN OB THE)
partial differential coefficients of the first order and of
higher orders; direction of curvature; radius of curva-
ture; envelopes; maxima and minima of functions of
one independent variable, and of several independent
variables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane
areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book,
Osborn.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Carcurus, InTBGRAR. Integration of elementary form
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalizatipn
and by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals;
definite integrals, limits of integration; double integra-
tion applied to plane areas; rectification of plane curves;
quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revolution;
surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equation of
curve. This course is supplemented by numerous
exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborn.
[Five hours a week for twelve weeks.]
V.
DiBBBRBNTiAB Equations. An elementary course
for Engineering students, supplementary to the course
of integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and degree; equations of the first order, but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equa-
tions with higher orders. Numerous applications to
mechanics and physics are introduced during the course.
Text-book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
Advanced Work. The prescribed courses in pure '
mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following
advanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	165
The text-books are not necessarily the same every
year. The number of students required to constitute
a class in any one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal.
(5) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock,
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory
of Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Advanced
Calculus, Beyerly, Todhunter, Williamson. (/) Advanced
Analytic Geometry, Salmon, (g) Analytic Geometry of
Three Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (h) Quater-
nions, Hardy with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING •
I.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine and other
heat motors involving the laws of thermodynamics of
gases, saturated vapors and superheated steam. The
applications of this preliminary work are then dwelt
upon, ■ and prime movers, the injector, condenser,
refrigerating machinery, boilers and pumps are studied
in detail. During the second term a study of the
difficult types of internal combustion engines is made
together with a general study of costs in operating
power plants. Frequent reference is made to trade
catalogues, of which an abundant supply should be
obtained by the student. Text-book, The Steam Engine,
Holmes.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.	.
Materials or Engineering. This course, supple-
mented by shop work and laboratory work in testing
materials of construction, is designed for the purpose
166	bulletin of thb
of acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact. The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up, and estimates of the
cost of construction at market prices complete the work.
Text-book, Thurston's Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Stbam BnginG Design. In this course the forms and
sizes of steam engines, computation of dimensions and
advantages and adaptation of special forms of engines
for specific work are taken up, giving the student a
thorough knowledge of construction detail. The latest
researches and contemporary practice may be con-
sulted in the numerous publications found in the Uni-
versity Library. During the first term of the Senior
year is required the complete design with working draw-
ings of a simple non-condensing steam engine for
specific purpose. The second term is given to designing
a multiple expansion, jacketed, condensing engine for
marine service. The text-book used is Whitham's
Steam Engine Design.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
- IV.
Stbam Boilbrs. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of
parts from consideration of strains, thickness of shells,
size of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods
of connection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces
and life of boiler are some of the subjects considered.
The method of determining the efficiency of fuels,
heating surfaces, heights of chimneys, boiler setting
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	167
and materials used in- connection are also discussed.
Text-book, Steam Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry
of machinery, the determination of the paths of the
various parts of an elementary combination and the
constraining of the parts to move in these paths. The'
general theory is then applied to cams and gear teeth,
the relative motion of machine parts and the kinematic
trains, belts, pulleys, speed cones, link work and other
aggregate combinations. Barr's Kinematics of Ma-
chinery is the text-book used.
[Three hours’ recitation and two hours’ drawing
a week for one term.]
VI.
Machine Design. This work involves a study of
the form and strength of machine parts as applied
in designing, with computation of dimensions for
fastenings, bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth
gearing, etc. The derivation of rational formulae
and the determination of empirical formulae are in-
cluded and applied in designing. The text-books used
are Unwin's Elements of Machine Design,. Low's Hand-
book for Mechanical Engineers and Reed's Machine
Design and Drawing.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
*
VII.
Vaeve Gears. This includes a complete study of
the Bilgram diagram as applied to side valves and the
principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical gears,
such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy
are treated in the same way, and in conclusion the
i68
BUEEETIN OB THE
student is made familiar with the various types of
Corliss valvesj shifting eccentrics and link motions. The
text-book is Halsey’s Valve Gears.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory. The work taken up
includes a study of the methods of testing the steam
engine under varying running conditions, valve setting,
calibration of thermometers, gauges and indicator
springs, use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dyna-'
mometers, Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc.
Text-book, Carpenter’s Experimental Engineering.
[Live consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Steam Engines and Boilers. A brief course in
the study of boilers and steam engines designed to
familiarize the student with the different types in use
and their respective merits. Only that theory is taken
up which is necessary to the working out of problems,
the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this course must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission, Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V
A.
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extend-
ing over two terms, is given to a general descriptive
study of all the types of gas engines and explosive
motors. The general construction of gas, oil, vapor
engines is studied together with their adaptation to
various uses.
Results due to change in ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid; methods of speed regu-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	169
lation and government and the details of auxiliaries
as, pumps, carburettors, hot tubes, batteries, spark
coils and dynamos are dwelt upon. The text-book
used is Gas, Oil and Vapor Engines by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the
•thermodynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-
book, lectures and drawing board. The major sub-
jects taken up are power, efficiency, economy, forces
due to gas pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine
parts. Luke’s Gas Engine Design is the text-book
used.
[Five hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing
a week for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete work-
ing up from rough castings and forgings of a small
type of gas engine. This is part of the thesis work
for students in the Short Program and requires the
complete machining and assembling of the engine
and must be preceded by Courses X. and XI.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Laboratory. Indicator practice, com-
mercial efficiency, governing, economy, speed regu-
lation. Experiments in ignition, spark coil construc-
tion, carburettors and vaporizers. Test of engine
constructed by the student. .
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
170
BULLETIN OB THE
SHOPWORK
XIV.
(a)	Woodwork. Bxercises in planing, splicing,
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
(b)	Application op Carpentry to pattern making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
(c)	Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
(d)	Iron Gorging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
(e)	Benchwork in iron, including surface chip-
ping, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
(f)	Accurate Work on the lathe, planer, shaft-
ing and milling machines. Construction of machine
tools, reamers, taps, twist drills, gear wheels and com-
plete machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Thesis. Bach candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Bngineering must present for graduation a thesis
of considerable magnitude which will exhibit his
knowledge of the courses he has followed. It may
embrace designing, experimental investigation or original
research, in a subject selected by the student and ap-
proved by the professor. The major part of the second
term, Senior year, is devoted to this work, and grad-
uation is conditional upon the knowledge of mechanical
engineering displayed in its preparation.
METALLURGY
' I.
Metallurgy. Among the subjects studied in this
course are the following—classification of ores, sampling,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	171
crushing, milling practice, roasting and smelting;
the various extraction processes of the following metals—
gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, are given special
attention,** the production of pig iron in blast furnaces.
A trip ' of inspection is made to smelting plants,
blast furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order
to familiarize the student with metallurgic plants in
operation.	'
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.	.
Assaying. This course consists of a series of actual
determinations of the quantity and value of gold, silver
and lead in the various ores by the crucible and scorifica-
tion methods of the fire assay; the assaying of gold
and silver bullion; determining the strength of cyanide
working solutions; the assay of gold bearing cyanide
solutions; and wet determinations of copper and zinc.
[Bight hours a week for one term.]
III.
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assay-
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
IV.
ORE Dressing. A course in which a detailed study
is pursued of the various processes of mechanically
separating and saving valuable minerals from the
valueless gangue of ores, whereby the valuable minerals
are concentrated into smaller bulk and weight by
discarding a large portion of the waste.
The principal subjects treated are: Preliminary and
final crushing by means of rock-breakers, steam and
gravity stamps with amalgamation; rolls, Chilian,
Huntington; tube and ball mills; screen sizing and
z
BULLETIN OF THE
172
classifying; sand and slime concentrating on jigs, tables
and vanners; magnetic separation, pneumatic con-
centration, oil flotation processes; locating and con-
structing the mill. The course includes a trip of in-
spection to a number of the most modern concentrating
mills in the lake Superior district where the student
engages in practical work in the study of mill construc-
tion, operation and efficiency. ■ Text-book, Richards.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
MINING ENGINEERING
I.
Mining Engineering, Principles of. This course
includes a general study of Mining operations divided
into the following subjects: Occurrence of minerals in
the earth’s crust, discovery, boring, excavation, sup-
porting excavations, exploitation, haulage, hoisting,
drainage, ventilation, lighting, access, ore dressing
and treatment. Text-book, Foster and Brough.
II.
Mine Surveying. A study of the subject of surveying
in its special application to mines, through lectures,
plotting of problems and recitations; for students who
take the summer course in the mines. The following
subjects receive particular attention—recording of
notes in underground traverses and their subsequent
plotting, a comparison of metal mine and coal mine
surveys, the methods of connecting surface with under-
ground surveys by means of both the auxiliary telescope
and plumb lines and the deputy mineral surveyor’s
methods of surveying mining claims for patent. Each
student is required to make a complete mine map from
notes of actual mine surveys. Text-book, Trumbull.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
173
MICROSCOPY
I.
Microscopy. Lectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion of light and illumination. The index
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of
lenses. Spherical and chromatic aberration. The
selection and care of a good microscope. The use of
accessories for advanced work; immersion and adjust-
able objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser,
polarizer, micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-
micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Micro-Chemistry. Laboratory work. The prepara-
tion of micro-chemical reagents and their application
in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and
mounting tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
MUSIC
FIRST YEAR
I.
Viomn. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Piorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte. Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn, Reinecke and
Mozart. Jugend Album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
III.
Voice Production. Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breathing-control. Articulation. Text-book, Shake-
speare’s Art of Singing, Part I.; Koflers’s Art of Breathing;
Studies by Bassini, English songs.
174	BUDDETIN OF THE
Vocad Sight Reading. Blementary theory of Music.
Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
IV.
Organ. Rink Organ School. Bugene Thayer Studies,
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR
la.
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas,
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
Ila.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,
Lecouppy; Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelsohn,
Schumann, Schubert.
Illa.
Voice Production. Advanced breathing exercises.
Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke of the
glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing,
Parts II. and III. Studies from Italian operas; Prench
and Bnglish songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IVa.
Organ. Schneider-Warren Pedal Studies. Basy so-
natas by Mendelsohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes,
fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.
Va.
Harmony. Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
izing from figured bass. Text-books, Goetshius Tone
Relations; Logier’s Harmony.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
175
THIRD YEAR
lb *
Vioein. Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alward, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelsohn, Dvorak. ‘
lib.
Pianoforte. Gradus ad Parnassum. Clementi-Tausig,
Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and
French Suites by Bach. ' Etudes by Harberbier and
Henselt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven,
Weber, Mendelsohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg. -
Illb.
Voice Production. Study of trill, mordent, grup-
petto, etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb.
Organ. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome,
Whistling, Best, Rheinberger.	■
Harmony. Counterpoint. Simple two and four part
counterpart; double and florid counterpart. Canon,
fugue.
FOURTH YEAR
.	Ic.
Vioein. Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Burch, Joachim and others,
lie.
Pianoforte. Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos and concert pieces by Schumann, Grahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
.	Ilic.
Organ. The greater preludes, fantasies and fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Builment and Saint-Saens.
176
BULLETIN of the
IVc.
Harmony. Composition. Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical applica-
tion in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on the viola, flute, piccolo,
cornet, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of
playing in the University Orchestra and the University
Band.
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of musical students open
only to those taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir
and the Glee Club are selected from the members of
this class.
PHARMACY
I.
Elements of Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various pharmaceutical processes.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy. A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the
manufacture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. B. preparations.
[Live hours a week for twenty-six weeks.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy. Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
177
IV.
General Pharmacy. A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Magistral Pharmacy. Includes the manifold
methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with considera-
tion of incompatibility, posology, and the principles of
elegant pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
(a)	PharmaceuTicae Chemistry. Chiefly assaying,
testing and manufacturing. Determination of melting
and boiling points, and solubilities. Some attention is
given also to toilet and commercial preparations with a
view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
(b)	PharmaceuTicae Pharmacy. Assaying and
manufacturing.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
VII.
GenERAE Pharmacy. Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectro-
scopic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of
manufacture.
[Dive hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Materia Medic a. This work embraces a detailed
consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, thera-
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is
178
BULLETIN or THS
given also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin.
They are studied individually at first then in classes
or groups. The grouping is so arranged as to make the
subject comparatively easy for the student.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic. This work includes
a study of weights and measures, percentage, relation-
ship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alliga-
tion and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.	'
Pharmacognosy. The identification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with
special reference to quality and detection of adultera-
tion. Attention is also given to the methods of prevent-
ing loss by improper storage or by the ravages of insects.
Important drugs are studied under the microscope in
cross section and in powder form.
[Three hourswa week for one term.]
XI.
Commercial Pharmacy. A brief course in business
method, store-management, banking, accounting, and
everything connected with the commercial side of
pharmacy. Likewise a number of lectures on Phar-
maceutical Jurisprudence and Commercial Law.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
PHILOSOPHY
I.
(a)	Physiological Psychology. This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis
of consciousness.
(6)	Experimental and Descriptive Psychology.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	179
•s
The primary laws of consciousness; psycho-physical
methods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b and c are consecutive. Lectures
three hours a week for two terms.]
(d)	Laboratory Exercises. Experiments will be
conducted with special reference to their value as aids
to introspection. Sanford’s Manual of Experimental
Psychology, Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Vol. I.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Elements or Epistemology.* A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teach-
ings of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkley, Hume,
Kant and Spencer.
(b)	Logic. Turner’s Lessons in Logic.
[Eour hours a week for one term.]
(c)	Ethics. The theory of morals, with special
reference to practical problems.
[Eour hours a week for one term.]
III.
(a)	General Metaphysics. Transcendental con-'
cepts: their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&)	Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of the
natural sciences in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(c)	Theodicy. The existence of God; His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
* This coarse is intended to be introductory to Logic and General Meta-
physics and will be given at the beginning of the year.
i8o
bulletin or THE
(d)	Outlines or the History or Philosophy.
Turner’s History of Philosophy.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(e)	Student Discussions. From time to time
throughout the year students will be required to read
and discuss papers on various subjects in the field of
philosophic inquiry.
There is likewise a regular course in Scholastic Philos-
ophy given in Latin. Students are free to elect the
course in Fnglish or Latin.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work in
the department of philosophy, leading to the degree
of Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students
who have pursued the courses described above. Can-
didates who have made undergraduate studies else-
where must give evidence of ability to begin specializing
at once. In the first and second years, research work
will be conducted in the seminar and the psychological
laboratory. In the last year, students will have the
benefit of frequent, consultation with the professors.
PHYSICS
I.
(a) Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and
magnetism are presented. The course is intended to
meet the needs of those who desire a general knowledge
of the subjects, as well as to lay the foundations for
. advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
s UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	l8l
(&) The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which, verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
’	II.
GENERAL Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given
in Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to
physical phenomena. Special attention is paid to
accuracy in the mathematical work and in the state-
ments of the principles involved. Lectures and recita-
tions. Text-book, Crewe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
-	III.
Physics. The application of mathematics in physical
work. Measurements of length, mass and time. Work
in mechanics, heat, light, sound,- electricity and mag-
netism. The work is done in the laboratory and the
student is taught to depend on his own resources and
to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Special advanced work in
heat, light, mechanics, sound, electricity and magnetism.
Accuracy in observation and in the calculation and
recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they
182
BULLETIN OB THE
are following. This course must be preceded by Courses
II. and III.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
Electrical Measurements. Laboratory practice
with galvanometers, voltmeters, ammeters and watt-
meters, resistance work, the relation or equivalence
between electric energy and heat, capacity and induc-
tance, insulation tests.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
.	. VI.
Calorimetry. Accurate work in laboratory, using
methods of mixtures, bomb and other calorimeters in
measuring the calorific values of gaseous and solid fuels,
quantitative measurements of radiation and conduction
of heat as applied to pipe coverings, etc.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
VII.
Meteorology. A government station was installed
at the University by the United States Weather Bureau
in March, 1912. An elementary course in meteorology
is offered to students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Research Work. Courses are offered in Theory
of Heat, Theory of Electricity and Magnetism, Optics,
the Constitution of Matter, Conduction of Electricity
by Gases, Theory of Sound, Hertzian Waves. Calculus
required to take up any of these topics.
[Two to five hours a week for one term.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a) This course comprises lectures, recitations and
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME-
183
demonstrations based upon Thornton's Text-book oj
Human Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstra-
tions required.
(&) Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c)	A limited number of microscopical preparations
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.
(d)	During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Lour recitations and one laboratory period
for twenty-two weeks.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (d) and may select either (&) or (c).
II.
(a)	This course comprises a complete study of human
physiology such as is required of students of medicine.
The lectures, recitations and demonstrations are based
upon Kirk's Handbook of Physiology and Hall's Text-
book of Physiology. The student will have free access
to a copy of The American Text-book of Physiology
for special reference.
(b)	Laboratory work in experimental physiology.
The manual used is Hall's Experimental Physiology,
but the student will have free access to a number of
other similar works,
pour recitation hours and two laboratory
periods for two terms.]
184	bulletin of the
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
The Elements of Economics. A general survey of
the subject based upon the study and discussion of
Seager’s Introduction to Economics. The first part of
this course deals with the fundamental principles of
the abstract theory of economics. The second portion
of the work has to do with the application and exem-
plification of these principles. In this connection atten-
tion is paid to the subject of money, credit and banking,
the labor movement, monopolies, the railroad problem,
socialism, taxation, and plans of economic reform.
Supplementary readings and reports on current dis-
cussions of these questions form an important part
of the work in this course.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IL*
Industrial History and the History of Economic
Thought. The work in this course is based on Ingram’s
. History of Political Economy, with Ely’s Evolution of
Industrial Society as a supplementary text. After a
resume of the economic ideas of ancient Greece and
Rome and the medieval period the work is divided
into three sections; the first dealing with the frag-
mentary notions preceding Adam Smith and including
the latter’s work and influence; the second period
deals with the classical school of economists, particular
attention being paid to the theories of Malthus, Mill
and Ricardo—the dependance of some of the modern
movements on their theories is also shown; the third
has to do with the latter day economists. Political
Science I. is a prerequisite for Course'll.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
* Not given in 1912-’13.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	185
in.
(a)* Money, Credit and Banking. This course
first outlines the historical aspect of money and of
banking and then takes up the problems touching on
these s ub j ects. Special attention is paid to the monetary
experiences of the United States and the present reforms
under consideration. The text-book used is Money
and Banking, by White.	■
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) Distribution. Lectures, readings and discus-
sions on the questions of wages, rent, interest and
profits, and the problems resulting from present notions
in regard to these matters. The text-book used is
The Distribution of Wealth by Carver, supplemented by
readings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]	'
. IV.
Public Finance. This course begins with a brief
history of the different financial systems. The different
‘ kinds of government expenditure are discussed, also
the sources of government income. The different
methods of taxation and the proposed reforms in these
methods are studied. Special attention is paid to.
problems in the United States. The text-book used is
Introduction to Public Finance by C. C. Plehh.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLITICS
V.	’
The Elements or Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics, Lilly.
[Two hours a week for one term.] w
* Not given in 1912—‘13.
I
186	BULLETIN or THE
VI.
o
American Government and Politics. Text, Actual
Government, Hart.
. [Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
- Jurisprudence. A course covering (a) the outlines
of the Science of Law. (b) The elements of International
Law. (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman and
Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and examinations on
required texts.
SOCIOLOGY
VIII.
The LlEments or Sociology. Text, Elements of
Sociology, Giddings.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
Graduate Work in Political Economy. Advanced
courses in economics, politics and sociology are provided
for graduate students who wish to receive the degree
of Master or Doctor.
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of Trench, Spanish,
Italian,* Polish, Portuguese, Old Trench, Proven gal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old Trench and Proven gal,
special attention will be paid to philology.
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the
inflection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
187
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Reading of three of the following
works: La Tache de Petit Pierre, Mariet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheureuse, Guerber;
Sans Famille, Malot; Readings from French History,
Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Dictations and conversations on
practical topics, and careful reading of five of- the
following works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pawvre, Feuillet; Fables
Choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’Argent, Dumas; Standard
French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and .general
view of French literature; besides a translation and
criticism of the best writers, such as; Caus cries du
Lundi, Ste., Beuve; On Rend V Argent, Coppee; Her-
nani, Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine;
L’Aware, Moliere; Mlle, de la Seigliere, Sandeau;
Les Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Ex-
pedition de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth
de Hongrie, Montalembert; Histoire de la Litterature
Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
i88
bulletin op the
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
$
SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero,
Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego,
and Irate.	'
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries, writh composition and the history
of the literature of the period.
[Bive hours a week for two terms.]
in.	.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries;
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the
literature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Barly Spanish. El Poema del Cid. • History of the
literature of the fifteenth century.
ITALIAN
A two years’ course. The chief work of the courses
is a critical study of Dante’s Divina Commedia. Read-
ing from Tasso, Aristo’s Satires and Manzoni. i
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
189
POLISH
I.
Polish Language and Literature. Grammar
(Matecki’s Part I.) Ftymology. Fxercises in spelling
and reading.
Grammar, Part II. Syntax. Bxercises in Com-
position. Short essays.
II.
Rhetoric. (Galle’s Text-book'). Study of Bssays in
Models. (Krasnoivilski’s Handbook).
III.
Literature. The History of Polish Literature. Part
I. From the beginning to the era of Adam Mickiewicz.
(Handbook: Tarnowski-Prochnicki).
. IV-
Literature. The History of Polish Literature. Part
II. From Adam Mickiewicz to the present time. (Hand-
book: Tarnowski-Prochnicki). Bssays.
PORTUGUESE
I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, Wall. Readings:
Perfil do marquez de Pombal, Camillo Castello Branco;
Novelhas Historicas, Pinheiro Chagas; Lendas e Nar-
rativas, Herculano; Campo de flores, foao de Deus.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
• IL .
Sermoes, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Camoes.
History of Portuguese literature.
190
BULLETIN OB THE
OLD FRENCH
&
Special attention will be paid to the laws under-
lying the formation of the French language from the
popular Latin. For this purpose a work like Bracket's
Grammaire Historiaue will be studied. It is under
this point of view that the old French authors will
be read, especially La Chanson de Loland.
PROVENCAL
Language and literature, with reading. from the
works of the Troubadours.
[Five hours a week for two terms.] •
ZOOLOGY
I.
This course comprises:
(a)	Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Nicholson's Text-book of Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker's Elementary Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined
in Pratt's Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker's Biology.
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order
of mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch's Ele-
mentary Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for
first term; three recitation hours and three
laboratory periods for the second term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME '	191
II.
This course comprises:
(a)	Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based
upon Hert'wig's Manual of Zoology.
(6)	Laboratory work upon some Invertebrate in
order to complete and supplement the work under
(c) in Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one of two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrate, viz.: fish,
frog, newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used
is Pratt's Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with refer-
ence to the cat as outlined in Davison's Mammalian
Anatomy.
(e)	An outline of comparative Bmbryology of ani-
mals. Text-book, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
3
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
i
193
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
*
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Elocution.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. PATRICK CARROLL, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. JULIUS A. NlEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Science.
Rev. WALTER J. LAVIN, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. JOHN EARLEY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
REV. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. GEORGE McNAMARA, C. S. C.,
English and Mathmatics.
194
BULLETIN OB THE
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography, Typewriting.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
JAMES HINES, Ph. B.,
History and Mathematics.
ERANCIS A. DERRICK, A. B.,
Greek and Latin.
JESSE E. VERA, M. E.,
Mathematics.
JOHN E. O’HARA, Ph. B.
Spanish.
JOHN M. COONEY, A. M.,
English and History.
THOMAS STEINER, C. E.,
Mathematics.
EMILE V. MOLLE, A. B.,
German.
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S.,
Drawing and Science.
EDWARD CLEARY, Litt. B.,
Civics and Commercial Law.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	195
BDMUND DOLWCZYNSKI, A. B.,
Polish.
FREDERICK INGERSOLL,
Violin.
CARL SAUTER,
Piano.
HENRY KUHLE, Ph. B.,
Mathematics.
GUILLERMO PATTERSON, Jr., M. S.,
Chemistry.
BERTRAM G. MARIS,
Director of Gymnasium.
196
BULLETIN OF THE
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Pre-
paratory School under the same general government
as the Colleges, but having its own special corps of
instructors. The schedules of studies are arranged to
meet the need of thorough preparation for collegiate
work, and embrace courses which, while giving as wide
an education as can be obtained in the very best High
Schools, prepare students directly for the group of
studies they may select when entering the Preshman
year. Pour different programs of instruction are offered
to students, each containing such special courses as
directly meet the needs of the eighteen college groups,
while all embrace common subjects which are indis-
pensably necessary in acquiring a fairly liberal education.
The period of instruction covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Pre
paratory School are most complete. The laboratories
are extensive and fully supplied with the latest im-
proved appliances. The classes pursuing any subject
are divided into sections, each containing a limited
number of students. The sections are purposely limited
in order that each student may receive close attention
from the instructor in every recitation and laboratory
period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening
of the School in September and embrace the subjects
completed in the highest grade in the Grammar School
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pages 35, 36, and 37. The following fees are
special to the Preparatory School:
LABORATORY FEES
Science C.—Elementary Botany.............'....$	2.50
Science D.—Elementary	Zoology................ 2.50
Science E.—Elementary	Chemistry.............. 5.00
Science E.—Elementary	Physics................ 5.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
197
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE DEPART-.
MENT OF CLASSICS IN THE COLLEGE
OF ARTS AND LETTERS
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English.	5	A -	English	5	A
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND year
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
Greek	5	A	Greek	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	‘	5	B	History	•	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
Greek	5	B	Greek	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	c
History	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
English •	5	D	English	5	D
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	198
Studies Preparatory for the Departments of Letters,
History and Economics, and Journalism in
the College of Arts and Letters
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
French or	5		French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	5	B	History	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5 ’	A
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
French or German	5	B	French or German	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
French or German	4	C	French or German	4	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
Science or	5	E	Science or	5	E
Science	5>	F	Science	5	F

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	199
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGE OF
SCIENCE	■
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term T	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
Science		A	Science	5	D
History	5	A	History	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
History	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
Mathematics	5	F	Drawing	4	B
Drawing	4	A			
200
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGES OF
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	.	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	A	History	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
^German	5	A	German	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governin’ t	5	A
History	5	B	History -	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German	5	B	German	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	r 5	D
History	5	C	Science	5	E
Science	5	E	German	5	c
German	5	C			
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
. Drawing	4	A	Drawing	4	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
* French, or Spanish may be substituted for German.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
201
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
A.
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended
to give the student some knowledge of the general
principles of government and of the American Con-
stitution. The subject begins by defining government;
then is considered the object and necessity of govern-
ment; origin of civil society; the principle of suffrage;
different forms of government defined and compared;
theories of representation. These topics necessarily
are treated briefly, as the principal part of the course
consists of a study of the Colonial government, the
Articles of Confederation and their defects, the for-
mation of the Constitution and its adoption. The
study further comprises a critical analysis of each
article and section of the American Constitution, thus
enabling" the student to acquire a clear conception
of the division of powers of the National Government
and the duties and responsibilities of each department.
Text-book, Government by State and Nation, by James
and Sanford.
[Eive hours a week for one term.]
DRAWING
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and
the eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects
of various forms.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
202
BUIJ,$TIN OK THK
B.
Courses in Lettering and Geometrical Drawing in
pencil and in pen and ink, preparatory to Drawing
I. in the Engineering Programs. A sufficient number
of plates must be made by each student to prove his
fitness for Drawing I.	'
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH
A.
(a)	Review of Grammar. General Rhetoric. Daily
exercises in Good English, and weekly exercises in
prose composition.	’
(b)	Elements of. Versification. Verse-writing and
memory work in Poetry.
(c)	Readings: Irving’s Sketch Book; Stevenson’s
Treasure \l stand; Longfellow’s Evangeline; Cooper’s
Last of the Mohicans; Poe’s Tales; Hawthorne’s Great
Stone Face, The Birthmark and other stories; Palgrave’s
Golden Treasury; Hale’s The Man Without a Country;
Aesop’s Fables; the Merchant of Venice, Julius Caesar.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
B.
(a)	Special Rhetoric. American Literature: ex-
ercises in Correct English and theme work in the Prose
Porms.
(6)	The Verse Porms. Theory, practice and memory
work.
(c)	Readings: Blackmore’s Lorna Doone; Poe’s
Poems; Lamb’s Essays of Elia; Scott’s Ivanhoe, The
Lady of the Lake; Coleridge’s The Ancient Mariner;
George Eliot’s Silas Marner; Longfellow’s The Cotwi-
ship of Miles Standish; Macbeth, As You, Like It.
[Pive hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
203
C.
(a)	History of English Literature. Written work
in prose and verse.
(b)	Memory work in poetry and prose.
(c)	Readings: Tennyson’s Gareth and 'Lynette, Lan-
celot and Elaine, The Passing of Arthur; Washing-
ton’s Farewell Address; Webster’s First Bunker Hill
Oration; Carlyle’s Essay on Burns; Chaucer’s Prologue;
Bacon’s Essays; Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield;
Thackeray’s Henry Esmond; King Lear, The Tempest.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
D.
(a) Review of Grammar and Rhetoric. Special
work in the literary types. Written work in prose
and verse.
(5) Memory work in poetry and prose.
(c) Readings: Tennyson’s Idylls of the King; Gate’s
Selections from Newman; Newman’s, The Dream of
Gerontius; Hamlet; A Midsummer Night's Dream; other
selections illustrative of the text-work given.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
FRENCH
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the in-
flection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and the common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of Rrench syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Frazer and Squair's Grammar.
Reading three of the following: La Tache du Petit
Pierre, Mairet; "Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La
Main Malheur euse, Guerber; ' Sans Famille, Malot;
Super's Readings from French History.
[Rive hours a week for two terms.]
204
BUUUBBIN OB THB
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Frazer and Squair’s Grammar.
Dictations and conversations are added on practical
topics and careful translation made of five of the fol-
lowing works: Le Voyage de M. Per richon, Labiche;
Roman d^un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’Argent, Dumas; Stand-
ard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Tive hours a week for two terms.]
C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of Trench literature. Besides a reading and
criticism of the best writers, such as: Causeries du
Lundi, Ste. Beuve; On Rend VArgent, Coppee; Harnani,
Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine; L’Avare,
Moliere; Mlle, de la Segliere, Sandeau; Les Origines
de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedition de
Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie,
Montalembert; Histoire de la Litterature Frangaise,
Duval
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
GREEK
Tirst Greek Book. White.
KpiTOMB OB THB Nbw Tbstambnt, Stoffel.
[Tive hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	205
'	B.	'
Grammar. Etymology. Hadley and Allen.
Xenophon. Anabasis, Books I. and II. Harper and
Wallace.
Second Greek Exercise Book. Heard.
Epitome of the New Testament, continued.
Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.	.
Grammar. Syntax. Hadley and Allen.
Xenophon. Anabasis, Books III. and IV. Harper
and Wallace.
Second Greek Exercise Book, completed. Heard.
Epitome oe the New Testament, completed.
Stoffel.	■
Homer, Iliad, Books I.-VI. Seymour.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
GERMAN
A.
Grammar, Thomas. Reading of simple prose, plays,
poems; translation of English exercises into German.
Reading of short stories and selections from more
difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar; Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
.	[Five hours a week for two terms.]
206
BWDBTIN OB TI-IB
C.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems,
and prose writings. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
pour hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
Ancient History. Myers' Ancient History. The
pastern Nations. The History of Greece and of the
Bmpire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The
Bstablishment of the Bmpire, and the rise of Chris-
tianity. The Roman-German, or Transition Age.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
Mbdibvad History and Modern History. Text-
book, Myers. The Barbarians and their Kingdoms.
Mohammedanism and the Saracen Caliphs, The Holy
Roman Bmpire. The Great Schism and the rise of
the Nations of Modern Burope. The Renaissance.
The Age of Discovery. The Protestant Reformation.
The Power of Spain and Germany. The Age of
Bouis XVI.,’ and the rise of Russia. The Spanish
and Austrian Successions. The Bmpire of Bngland.
The American Revolution. The French Revolution
and the Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and
Spirit of Nationality. The Formation of Germany
and Italy.
[Five hours a week for one year.]
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	207
C.
American History. A brief outline of the more
important periods dealing with the beginning, growth
and final formation of the republic; the principal
causes leading to this formation; essential topics in
the history of the country.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
LATIN
-	.	A. '
First Year Latin, Collar and Daniel.
Selections from the Viri Romae. Rolfe.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Btymology. Bennett.
Caesar. Gallic War, Books I-IV. Greenough.
Nepos. Selected Lives. Roberts. [Blective.]
Latin Composition (Part I.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett.
Cicero. Orations against Catiline. Kelsey.
Ovid. Selections. Kelsey.'
Saeeust. Cataline, Nall. [Elective.]
Latin Composition (Part II.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar. Review. Bennett.
Cicero. Selected Orations and Letters, Kelsey.
Aeneid, Books I.-VI., Frieze.
Latin Composition (Part III.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
208
bulletin or the
MATHEMATICS
Algebra. This course for beginners in Algebra
includes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
dwelt upon in particular are, factoring, highest common
factor and least common multiple, which are afterward
applied in their relation to Tractions and the reduction
of Complex Tractions. In as far as possible, concrete
examples of their applications to kindred scientific
subjects are applied by the teacher. Text-book,
Wentworth’s School Algebra.
[Tive hours a week for one term.]
B.
Algebra. In this course the study of equations
is begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Tractional equations, systems of simultaneous
equations, involutions, radicals and exponents com-
plete the course, which is supplemented whenever
possible with problems of practical application. Text-
book, Wentworth’s School Algebra.
[Tive hours a week for one term.^
c.
Algebra. This course begins with quadratic
equations, pure and unaffected, followed by systems
of simultaneous quadratic equations and those forms
of radical equations of higher degree which may be
solved by quadratic methods. Ratio and proportion,
indeterminate equations, surds, imaginaries, inequal-
ities,’ the progressions and the binomial theorem
finish the work in this course. As in the preceding
courses, special stress is placed upon the application
of the theory to such examples as will show its ap-
6
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	209
plication to elementary scientific subjects. Text-book,
Wentworth’s College Algebra. '
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Geometry. This subject is completed as far as
the end of plane geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original propo-
sitions. The habit of independent thinking is cul-
tivated to some extent by the solution of special problems
of a concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation
of the process studied to practical examples. Text-
book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Geometry. The study of solid geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that
of the preceding course. Planes, solid angles, poly-
hedrons, the cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied
in detail and the solution of original exercises and
propositions of application is made a feature of the
course. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Trigonometry. A half year is given to this subject
which includes both plane and spherical trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of
the elementary text-books. Special attention is given
to goniometry on account of its application to calculus,
and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly
supplied. Text-book, Wentworth.
(Five hours a week for one term.]
210
BULLETIN OB THK
SCIENCE •
A.
Physical Geography. An. introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the
world about him. The various types of plant and
animal life, together with topographical and climatic
conditions will be considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Pive hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology. Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of the
bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene of
muscles. The digestive, circulatory and excretory
systems demonstrated by models and charts. The
anatomy and structure of the nervous system and
simple experiments on the same. Text-book, Martin's
Human Body.
pive hours a week for one term.]
C.
Botany. This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower
and seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant
life and their classification is also given. Text-book,
Bastian's Elements of Botany.
pive hours a week for one term.]
D.
Zoology. This course includes an introduction to
the subject with studies of representative forms and
their classification in the different groups of the animal
JI
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
211
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
E.
(a)	Chemistry. An introductory course of experi-
mental lectures on familiar subjects such as water, the
air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena
of chemistry. Text-book, Maguire's Elements of
Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Experimental Chemistry. A laboratory course
to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises to be
performed by each student, and having as their main
object the cultivation of the student’s powers of obser-
vation .and faculty of inductive reasoning. These
exercises comprise a ..study of the principal metallic
elements, including their preparation, properties and
more familiar compounds. The directions for each ex-
periment are made as brief as possible; the observation
of facts and the drawings of correct conclusions there-
from being left, so far as the nature of the experiment
will permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
(a)	Physics. Introduction in elementary physics
is given by lectures and recitations in which the general
laws of mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity
and magnetism are presented. The course is intended
to meet the needs of those who desire a general knowl-
edge of the subject, as well as to lay the foundation
•	j
212
bulletin or THE
for advanced work. Particular attention is paid to
the correct statement of principles so that in his ad-
vanced work the student will have nothing to unlearn
or relearn. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for one year.]
(6)	Laboratory Work of this nature consists of
a series of 60 experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	213
THE COMMERCIAL HIGH SCHOOL
The Commercial School is designed to fuse with the
ordinary High School or preparatory program of studies,
a special preparation for the processes of modern com-
mercial life. Accordingly, the commercial program
consists of a selection of the more important subjects
in the High School curriculum to which are added the
classes and experimental facilities found in a complete
and up-to-date commercial college.
Owing to conditions specially favorable to study,
Notre Dame claims to give the students of this school
a more complete business training than can be obtained
in any purely commercial college. The authorities
require that students taking this program shall have
completed two years of a regular High School or its
equivalent. Special arrangements, however, will be
made for young men who have no High School training,
but who may have had practical business or office'
experience. Such students may follow the courses of
this program of studies but will not be considered can-
didates for degrees. A certificate stating the field
covered by their studies will, however, be presented
to them. Graduates of High Schools or equivalent
preparatory schools will ordinarily be able to complete
the work of this program in one year.
214
BULLETIN OB the
COMMERCIAL PROGRAM*
First year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	A	History	5	A
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	B
		sEconi	) YEAR		
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
History	5	B	History	5	B
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
		THIRD	YEAR		
English	5	C	English	5	C
Bookkeeping	5	A.	Bookkeeping	5	A
Phonography	5	A	Phonography	5	A
Arithmetic	5		Arithmetic	5	B
Typewriting	5	A	Typewriting	5	A
Penmanship	2		Penmanship	2	
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Bookkeeping	5	B	Bookkeeping	8	C
Phonography	5	B	Phonography	5	B
Oom. Law	5	A	Commerce	5	
Typewriting	3	B	Typewriting	3	A
* First and second year or equivalent required for entrance
on commercial work.
Students who do not take Phonography will take up
Plane Geometry the third year and Physics the fourth year.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	215
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
ARITHMETIC
A.	Percentage; ratio and proportion, as far as
involution and evolution,
t
B.	Percentage, ratio and proportion (reviewed);
involution and evolution; arithmetical and geometrical
series; higher percentage; mensuration; arithmetical
analysis.
x BOOKKEEPING
A.	Preparatory instruction and definitions; in-
itiatory sets of Double Bntry; retailing by Double
Bntry; special practice in writing business papers
and business forms. Single Bntry; changing Single
to Double Bntry.
B.	Retailing; wholesaling; shipping and com-
mission; jobbing; manufacturing; instalment and
state agencies; joint stock companies; banking’.
C.	Business Practice and Oeeice Work. In-
troducing Loose Leaf Accounting, Card Ledger Account-
ing, Loose Leaf and Sales Book, and the Voucher System
of Bookkeeping and Business Bnglish.
COMMERCIAL LAW
A. Text-book, Huffcut's Elements of Business Laws.
'	HISTORY OF COMMERCE
A. Text and assigned topics.
PENMANSHIP
PHONOGRAPHY
A.	Isaac Pitman’s Short Course in Phonography.
B.	Speed Class.	‘
216
bulletin of the
TYPEWRITING
A.	The Van Sant System of Touch Typewriting.
B.	Speed Ceass. Mimeograph and Hektograph work.
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined
above are equivalent to those of a High School. There
is also a junior Preparatory Department in which
are taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—
the students having every opportunity for preparing
themselves as rapidly as possible for High School
work.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
217
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
For the care and training of boys under the age
of thirteen years, there has been established a primary
school to which the most scrupulous attention has
always been paid by the authorities of the Univer-
sity—it is known as St. Edward’s Hall.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all
the elementary branches of an English education is
here imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge
of Eatin, French, German and Algebra. Vocal
Music and Drawing involve no extra charge. The
pupils of this department are taught by Sisters of the
Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE
The following is the order of the day: Rising at
6:30 a. m., toilet, etc., seven, breakfast, after which
there is a short time given to exercise on the campus;
eight, study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes
and study; a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner,
followed byrecreation; half-past one, classes and study;
three, recreation and luncheon; half-past four, classes
and study; a quarter to six, toilet; six, supper and
recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it
may be seen that while the Minims devote almost
seven hours a day to study, they are never more than
two hours in succession in the class-room. The rec-
reation and exercise in the fresh air after each period
of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to
return to their classes refreshed and ready to work.
The Minims are always under supervision during '
the hours of recreation as well as in the class-room
218	BUI^BTIN OB THB
and the study-hall. The presence, however, of the
prefect is far from being a restraint on the amusement
of the boys; for while it is the duty of the prefects
to insist that their young charges shall always keep
within the limits of the strictest propriety, they at
the same time take part in all sports, organize games,
and do everything in their power to foster the love
for exercise. The playground is a broad, level, eight-
acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary
gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make good use
of them can be seen from their healthy, happy ap-
pearance, which invariably attracts the notice of visit-
ors. Connected with the playground is a brick play-
hall, one-hundred and sixty feet long and heated by
steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold
weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and .
mend the clothing; see to all the needs and to the
comfort and convenience of the Minims. Baths are
taken every few days. Underclothing is changed
regularly. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly
dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES	‘
There are two societies in the Minim Department,
that of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which
has for its object to supply servers for the Chapel
services, and the Sorin Association, which has been
established with a view to give the pupils a start, as
early as possible, in elocution. The society is presided
over by one of the professors, who finds it a pleasant
duty to draw out the talent of these interesting young
orators. Meetings are held once a week, after school
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
219
as of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to ^debate, etc. Only
the best behaved and more advanced in studies are
admitted to membership. To encourage this young
literary society, a gold medal for elocution is annually
awarded at Commencement to the most deserving
member.	’
GENERAL REMARKS
।
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected is
much milder than that which is suited to members
more advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had
to punishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern
by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing to the
boys’ sense of honor.
There are gold medals awarded at the end of two
full years to those whose deportment has been un-
exceptionable during that period. *As this fact is made
known to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he
generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view
to receiving an Honor. The greatest care is taken to
form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Bvery effort
is made to foster respect and affection for parents, to
whom they are expected to write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the
Minims is their complete separation from the older
students. A commodious building, known as St.
Rdward’s Hall, affording ample accommodations for
over one hundred pupils, is devoted to their use. It is
four stories in height, one-hundred and fifty feet long,
and forty-five feet wide, heated by steam, supplied
throughout with electric light, and provided with hot
and cold water. The ceiling in the study-hall, class-
rooms and sleeping apartments is fifteen feet high. The
220
BUFuETlN OB THE
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant
light and ventilation. The study-hall commands a
charming view from each end of its eleven large
windows. It is tastefully decorated with statuary,
pictures, plants, etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims
derive from studying in this bright, cheerful hall, their
tastes are cultured by coming into contact with objects
so refining. Fronting the building is a handsome park,
which, with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds
not a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall, as well
as to the happiness of its pupils.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy
parents and others who ^frequently write for more
detailed information, will show that, while the Minims
have every advantage to aid them in acquiring a founda-
tion for future study,' they have a home, where they
enjoy the same ease and freedom that they would
enjoy under the care of their mothers. For further
information regarding the School for Minims apply for
a special catalogue.
EXPENSES
[For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.]
Matriculation Fee (first year only) ...............$	10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bedding,
etc., per school year........................ 250.00
Payable in advance as follows:
First Payment,—On Entrance in September.
Matriculation Fee................................... 10.00
Board and Tuition.................................. 150.00
Deposit on Book and	Stationery	Account............... 5.00
Gymnasium........................................... 2.50
hectare and Concert Course	Ticket.................... 1.00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second Payment,—On January 15.
Balance on Board and Tuition.............$100.00
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	221
The charge for lessons on piano, violin, guitar or
mandolin, and the use of the instrument, is fixed at $50.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Bach pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits
of underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pair of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits
of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap,
and a hand mirror. This direction concerning clothing
is a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above
supplies can be procured through the Students’ Office
at the University.
222
bulletin of th#
MILITARY
During the summer vacation of 1910 the Secretary
of War appointed a retired officer of the United States
Army, Professor of Military Science and Tactics in
the University of Notre Dame.
The Military drill has for some years been compul-
sory in St. Bdward’s Hall and in Carroll Hall. In the
other departments this exercise has been altogether
voluntary. It has proved' popular hitherto with the
older students; and Corby, Walsh and Brownson each
furnished a strong company to the battalion last year.
The value of the military drill was instantly recognized
and the success that attended the work was extremely
gratifying.
This year it has been made compulsory three hours
a week for all students except Seniors and Juniors in
the college courses. Other students seeking exemption
from the drill must make application to the President.
It is accredited as a class, and absence from it is regarded
as absence from class, involving the usual demerits and
other penalties.
The cost of a uniform with military negligee shirt
for warm weather is about fifteen dollars. Other military
equipment is furnished by the United States Government.
The officers of the battalion for the past year were
as follows:
Captain R. R. Stogsdapf, U. S. A., Retired,
Professor of Military Science and Tactics.
Cotor S^RGBANT Herman Hiring, U. S. A., Retired,
Assistant Military Instructor.
223
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
Stare.
Leo James Condon,
First Lieutenant and Adjutant.
’ John Wieeiam Costeeeo,
First Lieutenant and Quartermaster.
Francis Bernard McBride,
First Lieutenant and Commissary.
Carmo Francis Dixon,
First Lieutenant and Signal Officer.
Company B.
James Daniee Noe an,
Captain.
John AebrEd Sawkins,
First Lieutenant.
Frederic Matthew Giebough,
Second Lieutenant.
Company C.
Paue August Rothweee,
Captain.
James Warren Burke,
First Lieutenant.
WlEEIAM BDWARD MCMORRAN,
Second Lieutenant.
Company D.
Leo Francis Garrity,
Captain.
Thomas Aeoysius Dockweieer,
First Lieutenant.
Waeter John Maguire,
Second Lieutenant.
224
BULLETIN OB' THE
Carroll Hall.
i
Fabian Neele Johnston,
Captain.
Albert Heuser Keys,
First Lieutenant.
Leo Albert Schumacher,
Second Lieutenant.
9
LIST OF STUDENTS
226
buteetin ob the '
LIST OF STUDENTS
Matriculated During the Scholastic Year 1911-1912
Amondarain, Ignacio Antonio......Argentine, South America
Ansberry, Edward..............................Canal	Zone
Arias, Manuel Fernando.............................Cuba
Arnfield, Fremont..................................Illinois
Anderson, Raymond Thomas...........................Illinois
Aube, James Foster.................................Illinois
Anderson, Barrett John.............................Illinois
Armstrong, Lennox Francois.......................  Illinois
Abshire, Dawson A...................................Indiana
Anthony, B........................................  Indiana
Aud, Hugh Paul.....................................Kentucky
Andrew, B.....................................Massachusetts
Aldrete, Antonio, Jr.......
Alvarez, Domingo...........
Ayala, Antonio Lorenzo....
Anchondo, Manuel Eduardo
Adams, George Edward....
Augustin, Antony...........
Allen, Henry Harding.......
Anderson, Frank Albert....
Adolphus, B................
Austin, B..................
Adriansen, Joseph Willebrod
....Mexico
....Mexico
.........’.	. . . Mexico
....Mexico
..Michigan
..Michigan
..Michigan
......Ohio
.Wisconsin
........Wisconsin
........Wisconsin
Baldwin, Warren ...................................Arkansas
Brizzolara, Aristo Cornelius.......................Arkansas
Barrozo, Guemercindo C. d’O...........Brazil,	South America
Breslin, Frank Jerome..................................California
Blake, Edward Francis.................................Connecticut
Bernet, Wm. Gerard.......................................Illinois
Burke, Thomas Joseph.....................................Illinois
Burns, Russell Joseph....................................Illinois
Blackburn, Wm. J ohn.....................................Illinois
Bernoudy, Alfred Charles.................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	22 7
Bowles, John Hense.................................  .Illinois
Barry, George Francis.................................Illinois
Bergfeld, Elliott WTm.................................Illinois
Boldt, Herbert August.................................Illinois
*	o
Blackman, Everett Augustus........._..................Illinois
Barry, Norman Stephen..................................Illinois
Burtt, Millard Cyril...................................Illinois
Birkenbuel, Walter Edgar..........'...................Illinois
■'"Burke, William Joseph...............................Illinois
Burke, Thomas Edward..................................Illinois
Biadaszkiewicz, Louis.................................Illinois
Biadaszkiewicz, John..................................Illinois
Baujan, Harry Clifford................•...............Illinois
Burns, Stephen Emmett..................................Indiana
Boyle, Francis Thomas..................................Indiana
Bergman, Alfred	Arthur..............................Indiana
Bergman, Arthur	Joseph..............................Indiana
- Berger, Alvin.........................................Indiana
O /
~ Brentlinger, Byron Wm.................................Indiana
“Berner, Eeo Sebastian.."...............................Indiana
Buckley, Bernard.......................................Indiana
Burke, Wm. Ignatius....................................Indiana
Burke, Edmund Thomas.....................................Iowa
Barth, John Henry........................................Iowa
Buskirk, Randolph Joseph.............................Kentucky
Becker, Michael Stanley..............................Louisiana
Bracho, Jose......’....................................Mexico
Bracho, Jose Fernando..................................Mexico
Becht, Lincoln Edward................................Michigan
Bednarek, Felix. . . .'..............................Michigan
Bozek, Joseph........................................Michigan
Boucher, Fred Joseph.................................Michigan
Boos, Frank Holgate..................................Michigan
Burns,'John Thomas...................................Michigan
Boland, James Isidore................................Michigan
Brown, Francis Aloysius..............................Michigan
Brooke, Fracis Ambrose...............................Michigan
Barrett, Edward Francis.............................Minnesota
Barrett, Lawrence James.............................Minnesota
Bartel, Frank Octave................................Minnesota
Barrett, David Moses................................Minnesota
Bollin, Walter Scott.................................Missouri
228
BUIABTIN OB TUB
MBensberg, Wm. Joseph................................Missouri
Bruce, Edward Miles................................  Missoup
Brookfield, Edward V................................Missouri
Brannan, Sylvester Anthony..........................Nebraska
Byrne, Joseph Michael, Jr.....................    New	Jersey
Baca, Anastasio C. de.....................................New	Mexico
Bible, Robert Gogen.......................................New	Mexico
Bogy, Bernard Pratte, Jr............................New	Yolk
Byrne, Paul Ryan....................................New	York
Barclay, Francia Arthur.............................New	York
Brennan, Raymond Patrick............................New	York
Birder, Jacob Vivian..........................  North	Dakota
Birder, Cecil Edward....................................North	Dakota
Beckham, Wm. Demert.....................................Ohio
Brucker, Edward Francis.................................Ohio
Baader, Ernest John.....................................Ohio
Burger, Alfred Andrew...................................Ohio
Burkhard, Sylvester Jerome..............................Ohio
Boyle, John Francis.................................Oklahoma
<Brown, Alfred John....................................Oregon
Bartholomew, Norman Cletus......................Pennslyvania
Bannon, John Mackin............................Pennsylvania
■Burns, Edward Clark...........................Rhode Island
Broussard, Clyde Eloi..................................Texas
Barry, Patrick Arthur................................Vermont
Buskirk, Russell Clay..........................West Virginia
Basil, B...........................................Wisconsin
Burke, James Warren................................Wisconsin
Brooks, Christopher Francis........................Wisconsin
Canning, Francis Roche.............................California
Curry, James Augustus.............................Connecticut
Curry, Thomas Benedict............................Connecticut
Curry, Edward Paul
Cortes, Felipe Victor.........................
Cortes, Scipion Felipe........................
Connecticut
Chili, South America
Chili, South America
Clark, Sheldon Adelbert.........................................Illinois
Casey, Gerard Henry. ...........................................Illinois
Cotter, Wm. Edward....................................•..........Illinois
Clark, Harry A. S...............................................Illinois
Clancy, Byron...................................................Illinois
Cleary, Edward Patrick..........................................Illinois
1
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
229
Carey, Edmund Aloysius.................................Illinois
Carey, Eugene. Thomas..................................Illinois
Connolley, Robert Emmet................................Illinois
Coakley, Wm. Edward....................................Illinois
Conover, Chas. Sydney..................................Illinois
Clarke, George Walker..................................Illinois
Clarke, Francis Thomas.................................Illinois
Condon, Teo James......................................Illinois
Cooney, Earl Thomas....................................Illinois
Case, Wm. Denning......................................Illinois
Countiss, Fred N.......................................Illinois
Collins, Thomas Daniel.................................Illinois
Cahill, James Francis..............*...................Illinois
Callahan, Edward Timothy.....................•.......  Illinois
Costello, John William..................................Indiana
Canty, Wm. Sumner.......................................Indiana
Clifford, Twomey Michael................................Indiana
Cox, Benjamin Joseph....................................Indiana
Coffeen, Walter Henry...................................Indiana
Czarnecki, Edmund.......................................Indiana
Chester, Willard Harry..................................Indiana
Clark, Henry G..........................................Indiana
Cusack, Wm. John...........................................Iowa
Colby, Colburn J oseph.....................................Iowa
Carey, Charles Maurice...................................Kansas
Carey, Joseph Thomas..............................'.....Kansas
Craven, Thomas Vincent................................Louisiana
Carmody, Arthur Roderick..............................Louisiana
Carmody, Francis Michael..............................Louisiana
Cox, Louis Charles...........................Manitoba, Canada
Callery, Philip Joseph............'...............Massachusetts
Crowley, Chas. Francis............................Massachusetts
Cortazar, Enrique........................................Mexico
Chavez, Jorge............................................Mexico
Ciprian, Joseph Edward.................................Michigan
Cullen, Harry Walter...................................Michigan
Cannon, Harold Clement.................................Michigan
Currie, Clarence Joseph................................Michigan
Coyle, Matthew Aloysius................................Michigan
Creamer, Patrick David................................Minnesota
Campbell, Francis Bartley...............................Montana
Christopher, B.........................................New	York
230
BULLETIN OB THB
Cyczarnski, Henry..................................New	York
Curran, Cyril Joseph...........’...................New	York
Cagney, John Stuart....................................Ohio
Clay, Amos Kendall,#Jr.................................Ohio
Cusick, Dwight Paul....................................Ohio
Cavanaugh, Prank Remigius..............................Ohio
Coxey, Jacob Sechler...................................Ohio
Corcoran, William Joseph.............................Oregon
Conway, Maurice A....................................Oregon
Cunning, P atrick Henry........................Pennsylvania
Cowan, Charles Thomas..........................Pennsylvania
Connors, John Michael..........................Pennsylvania
Corasao, Alberto........................Peru,	South America
Corbato, Hermenegildo, O. P...........................Spain
.Casey, Wm. Christopher..........................Tennessee
Coker, Wallace Bari..................................Texas
Cleaver, Wm. Bdward.. ..........................Washington
Cline, Otis Ray..............................'.West	Virginia
Coughlin, Robert Jerry............................Wisconsin	.
Cremer, Glynn Brancis............................Wisconsin
Carroll, John Brands.............................Wisconsin
Clifford, Myron James
Wisconsin
Dunn, John Gordon......................................Alabama
Dockweiler, Thomas A. J.... ........................California
Hockweiler, Henry Isidore...........................California
Donovan, Herbert Dennis...............................Colorado
Devine, John Bran cis, Jr.............................Illinois
Delana, George William................................Illinois
Daly, Hugh James......................................Illinois
Donahue, Brands.......................................Illinois
Dixon, Paul Goodrich..................................Illinois
Dorsey, John Stuart...................................Illinois
Downing, Wm. Poyntelle................................Illinois
Duncan, Walter....................................... Illinois
Doherty, Patrick Henry................................Illinois
Dee, Samuel Allerton..................................Illinois
Duffin, Leon Gavin....................................Illinois
Dolan, Patrick Henry..................................Illinois
Drechney, John Harry..................................Illinois
Donohue, William Matthew...............................Indiana
Duggan, Bdward Deane...................................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
231
Douglas, Joseph Arthur.............................  Indiana
Dinnen, George Alyosius............................  Indiana
Dinnen, J ohn Richard..............'.................Indiana
Dinnen, Robert Augustine...........................Indiana
Damian, B..........................................Indiana
De Dries, Erich Hans..................................Iowa
Daily, John Frederick...............................Kansas
Dunphy, Wm. Francis..........................Massachusetts
Davila, Francisco Paula.............................Mexico
De la Cruz, Jose....................................Mexico
Durand, Carlos......................................Mexico
Dundon, John Richard..............................Michigan
Daly, James Stewart...............................Michigan
Dodge, John Duval.................................Michigan
Dancer, Louis James...............................Michigan
Dohn, Bernard Chas................................Michigan
Dolan, Wm. Thomas.................................Missouri
Downey, Timothy Edward.............................Montana
Dixon, Carmo Francis..................................Ohio
Durbin, Francis William.............................. Ohio
Devitt, James Ryan....................................Ohio
Daugherty, Michael A. Jr..............................Ohio
Drushl, Carl Anthony..............................Ohio
Donly, Hugh Perry Jr..........................Oklahoma
Dew, Jesse Edward.............................Oklahoma
Dyer, Edwin Ruthwin...........................Oklahoma
Dew, Edward Livingston........................Oklahoma
Daly, William Orvin.............................Oregqn
Duque, Carlos Alphonsus..............Peru,	South America
Damiana, Carlos Reinaldo..........  .Peru,	South America
Devlin, James Sylvester......................Pennsylvania
Denny, John Bert, Jr.........................Pennsylvania
Derrick, Clarence Joseph.....................Pennsylvania
Daly, Robert Emmett..........................Pennsylvania
Dougherty, Clement Francis......................Wisconsin
Dorais, Charles Emille..........................Wisconsin
Doyle, Wm. Ester................................Wisconsin
Diener, Charles Norman. ........................Wisconsin
Durch, Bernard Jacob............................Wisconsin
Desmond, John Wm................................Wisconsin
Desmond, James Dennis...........................Wisconsin
232
BULLETIN or THE
Espinal, Antonio Marino.
Emiliani, Simon Joseph..
Ecklund, Percy August.
Egan, Bernard -Aloysius
Edward, B................
Edmund, B................
.................Cuba
Colombia, South America
..............Illinois
..............Illinois
..............Illinois
..............Illinois
Eugene, B............................................Illinois
Ericson, Bred........................................Illinois
Eggert, Carl Ernest...................................Indiana
Elward, Allen Henry.............................Massachusetts
Eichenlaub, Raymond Joseph...............................Ohio
Eick, Louis Ferdinand....................................Ohio
Eck, Vincent John...........................  Pennsylvania
Ely, Charles Stuart...........................Pennsylvania
• Enaje, Francisco Delgado................Philippine	Islands
Emerson, Joseph George...............................Texas
Farry, Claude Joseph....................................Colorado
Ffrench, Jasper Joseph..................................Illinois
Fritch, Louis -Michael..................................Illinois
Fortier, Edward Emmett..................................Illinois
Fahy, Murty Michael.....................................Illinois
Fowler, Aelred..........................................Illinois
Fellers, Brooks.........................................Illinois
Furlong, Thomas Aloysius................................Illinois
Farrell, Simon Thomas...................................Illinois
Figel, Theodore Aloysius................................Illinois
Fecher, Martin Walter...................................Illinois
Fritch, Emil Joseph.....................................Illinois
Fumasoli, Ernest.....................................’..Illinois
Felix, B................................................Illinois
Fletcher, F orest.......................................Illinois
Fischer, Robert.........................................Illinois
Feeney, Albert George....................................Indiana
Fox, Wm. Francis, Jr.....................................Indiana
Friedman, John Henry.....................................Indiana
Freeman, Lawrence Arthur.................................Indiana
■ Finegan, Charles Thomas...................................Idaho
Finnegan, Frank Roman.....................................Kansas
Fanelli, Salvatore Paul.................................Kentucky
Florence, B.............................................Michigan
Fries, Alfred Francis...................................Michigan
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
233
Finn,	Russell Gregory.............................Michigan
Funk,	Michael.....................................Michigan
Fish, William Arthur..........................Massachusetts
Fant,	Paul Douglas................................Missouri
Farrell, Joseph Richard..................................New	York
Flannagan, Simeon Thomas.................................New	York
Fiedler, Eugene..........................................New	York
Flynn, Charles Joseph.........................Massachusetts
Fabian, B..............................................Ohio
Fortune, Frank Guy.....................................Ohio
Finneran, Francis Xavier...............................Ohio
Fletcher, Emmett Brooks................................Ohio
Fasenmyer, Edward John.........................Pennsylvania
Fenesy, James Clair............................Pennsylvania
Feyder, Theodore.......................................South	Dakota
Frawley, Henry James...................................South	Dakota
Frawley, Wm. Gardner........................  .South	Dakota
Foote, John Orley......................................South	Dakota
Fernandez, Candido, 0. P..............................Spain
Fernandez, Manuel, 0. P...............................Spain
Fordyce, John Martin..............................Wisconsin
Gonzalez, Jose Mario.................................... Cuba
Gonzalez, Francisco Santiago.............................Cuba
Gonzalez, Manuel.........................................Cuba
Gamboa, Octavio Francisco................................Cuba
Garrity, Deo Francis...............•.................Illinois
Getschow, Roy Martin.................................Illinois
Gibbons, Walter Clark................................Illinois
Gowen, Guy Howard....................................Illinois
Good, Ralph Edwin....................................Illinois
Green, Francis Edward.................................Indiana
Gross, Edward Walter..................................Indiana
Graczol, John, Jr.....................................Indiana
Grover, Edward Hoyt...................................Indiana
Gossard, Everett Fleet.............................. Indiana'
Gough, Ruben St. Clair................................Indiana
Glynn, Thomas David, Jr...............................Indiana
Glueckert, Henry George...............................Indiana
Granfield, William Joseph.......................Massachusetts
Gonzalez, Juan Garcia..................................Mexico
Gurza, Miguel Angel....................................Mexico
234
bulletin of the
Guizar, Manuel, Jr.......................................Mexico
Gutierrez, Rafael Diez...............................Mexico
Gregory, Charles Bernard...........................Michigan
Gray, Wilbur Theodore..............................Michigan
Gotfredson, Robert Benjamin........................Michigan
Gaupel, Roland Joseph..............................Missouri
Garvey, Woolsey Robert............................New	Jersey
Gaines, Thos. Ray........................................New	York
Guppy, Raymond Leslie....................................New	York
Green, Allen Ransom......................................New	York
Gloeckner, Albert Anthony..............................Ohio
Gfell, Vernon Edward........................................Ohio
Gendron, Leon Peter.........................................Ohio
Gerber, Clement Joseph......................................Ohio
Geifer, Jacob Raphael.......................................Ohio
Gillies, Prank Leslie...........................Ontario,	Canada
Gunster, Joseph Fredrich...........................Pennsylvania
Gonzalez, Carlos Amador....................Peru,	South America
Gushurst, Ferd Wm.............................South Dakota
Gushurst, Edward..............................South Dakota
Guerra, Benajmin...................................  Spain
Gilbough, Fred Matthew, Jr...........................Texas
Gleim, Fidelis Augustus..............................Texas
Galvin, Wm. Michael..................................Texas
Gannon, Thomas Edward............................Wisconsin
Hebert, Walter Jones........................................Arkansas
Hebert, Gaston Arthur.......................................Arkansas
Hood, John Leo.................................................Idaho
Herr, Jesse James...........................................Illinois
Hanlon, George Thomas, Jr...................................Illinois
Hecht, Arthur William.......................................Illinois
Hayes, Frank Harold.........................................Illinois
Healy, Joseph Jeremiah,.....................................Illinois
*•
Hurley, Ira Wm..............................................Illinois
Hicks, Wm. Joseph...........................................Illinois
Hassett, Frank Aloysius.....................................Illinois
Hartman, Karl...............................................Illinois
Hamler, Jerome Peter........................................Illinois
Honor, Walter Joseph........................................Illinois
Hawley, Edgar Joseph........................................Illinois
Hawley, John Wm.............................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
235
Hews, Edson Lawrence..............................Illinois
Hews, Auber Nestor................................Illinois
Huszagh, Lyman Thomas.............................Illinois
Haggerty, Richard.................................Illinois
Haggerty, John Michael............................Illinois
Hilgartner, Daniel Edward.........................Illinois
Hanrahan, Erancis J...............................Illinois
Hogan, Erancis Michael.............................Indiana
Hazinski, Ladislaus Leo............................Indiana
Hennessy, James....................................Indiana
Holden, John Shedd.................................Indiana
Hagerty, Chas. Aloysius............................Indiana
Hagerty, Michael Victor............................Indiana
Hillman, Victor Emmanuel...........................Indiana
Hiss, Erank Joseph.................................Indiana
Hintz, Wm. Gustav..................................Indiana
Henneberger, Chas. Bernard.........................Indiana
Hayes, Cornelius Byron.............................Indiana
Hogan, James Edward................................Indiana
Hazinski, Leo Casimir............................. Indiana
Heiser, Joseph Allan...............................Indiana
Holderith, George Leo..............................Indiana
Hynes, John Eelix.....................................Iowa
Healy, Thomas Moritz..................................Iowa
Healy, Kerndt Michael.................................Iowa
Horn, Tyree Rivers..................................Kansas
Huerkamp, Erederick John..........................Kentucky
Huerkamp, Joseph Martin...........................Kentucky
Henkel, Gustavo Antonio.............................Mexico
Henkel, Antonio Daniel..............................Mexico
Hafey, Erank William.........................Massachusetts
Haggerty, Jeremiah Joseph. ..................Massachusetts
Healy, Wm. Andrew.................................Michigan
Healy, Harold James...............................Michigan
Haller, George Dewey..............................Michigan
Horton, James.....................................Michigan
Hammond, LeGrande Anderson........................Michigan
Hayes, Arthur Joseph.............................Minnesota
Hatten, Alvin Donald, Jr..........................Missouri
Harper, Albert Burgess ...........................Missouri
Harvat, Paul Julius................................Montana
Harvat, Edwin Joseph...............................Montana
236	BULLETIN OB THE
Hebner, Harry Joseph...............................Nebraska
Hubbell, Charles Lawrence........................New	Mexico
Hubbell, Frank Alarico...........................New	Mexico
Hubbell, Roman Guttierrez........................New	Mexico
Hickey, Cornelius Joseph.................................New	York
Hickey, Bugene Thomas....................................New	York
Hogan, Bdward Francis....................................New	York
Halter, Michael Valentine..............................Ohio
Hamilton, Donald Munson................................Ohio
Hendricks, Charles Bernard.............................Ohio
Henehan, Martin Ignatius...............................Ohio
Hahne, Chas. Forster...................................Ohio
Herbert, Alfred Joseph.........................Pennsylvania
Heyl, Martin Joseph............................Pennsylvania
Hogan, William Neil............................Pennsylvania
Hernandez, Vincente....................................Porto	Rico
Hearn, John Joseph..'........................Quebec, Canada
Hanon, Otto Sylvester.........................South Dakota
Henry, John Wm........................................Texas
Howard, Bdward Joseph..............................Vermont
Hallam, Willard Van Dake......................West	Virginia
Hamilton, Garland Buskirk.....................West	Virginia
Hoffman, Bugene Frederick.....................West Virginia
Isidore, B........................................Wisconsin
Hayes, J ames Raymond.........1...................Wisconsin
Hayden, Wm. Basil.................................Wisconsin
Jones, Joseph Charles..............................Illinois
Joy, Joseph Francis................................Illinois
Johnston, Philip Fenton............................Illinois
Jakubowski, Ceslaus Joseph.......................~ . . .Illinois
Janowski, Bronislaus J..............................Indiana
Johnson, Leroy Charles..............................Indiana
Jacobs, Walter Byron..............................Louisiana
Jacobs, Bdward....................................Louisiana
Jones, Harry Bernard...............................Michigan
J ones, Keith Kenneth...............................Montana
Jones, Roy Henry.................................New	Mexico
Jones, James Bernard...........................Pennsylvania
Johnston, Fabian Neele....................Philippine	Islands
Joyce, Howard Francis.............................Wisconsin
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	237
Kelly, Herbert Barrett................................Alabama
Kretschmer, Alfred Arnold............................Colorado
Krampff, Arthur Clyde..............................  Illinois
Kasper, Alexander Michael............................Illinois
Kelly, James Joseph..................................Illinois
Kalish, Wm. Jacob....................................Illinois
Kolb, Wm. Marcus.....................................Illinois
Kolb, Bernard..................................."......Illinois
Klopfer, Henry D.....................................Illinois
Krajezski, Casimir Ignatius..........................Illinois
Kelley, Pearce Clement...............................Illinois
Kasper, Simeon Michael...............................Illinois
King, Albert Vincent...........-.....................Illinois
Kroll, John Joseph...................................Illinois
Kusznski, Stanislaus Stephen.........................Illinois
Kobrzynski, Joseph Stanislaus........................Illinois
Kelley, John Charles..................................Indiana
Kaiser, Benedict Joseph...............................Indiana
Kolupa, Albin Stanislaus..............................Indiana
Kowalski, Sygfryd T...................................Indiana
Kowalski, Edmund Chas.................................Indiana
Keeslar, L. D.........................................Indiana
Kruyer, Cletus Hugh...................................Indiana
Kennedy, Wm. Edward...................................Indiana
Kelly, Gordon Mark...................................Indiana*
Krack, George Camille.................................Indiana
Kenney, Joseph Francis..........................Massachusetts
Kelly, Euke Eeo.................................Massachusetts
Kinney, Maurice Henry................................Michigan
Kirchman, Francis John...............................Nebraska
Kiley, Louis John................................... New	York
Kiley, Frank Charles.......................................New	York
Kelly, Joseph Patrick......................................New	York
Kirk, Harry John.........................................Ohio
Krebs, Arnold Tobias.....................................Ohio
Keys, Arthur Aloysius................................Oklahoma
Keys, Albert Heuser..................................Oklahoma
Krug, Henry Carl............................  Ontario,	Canada
Kelleher, Wm. Andrew...................................Oregon
Kane, Eugene Aloysius............................Pennsylvania
Kuhle, Henry John........................................South	Dakota
Kuhle, Albert Anton......................................South	Dakota
238	BULLETIN OB THU
Krippene, Kenneth Wm.................■.............Wisconsin
Kasson, Donald Milton..............................Wisconsin
Kehoe, Brands Leo..................................Wisconsin
Lequerica, Anthony..................Colombia, South America
Lequerica, Manuel...................Colombia, South America
Lamb, Leo...........................................Colorado
Lamb, Vincent.......................................Colorado
Lisewski, Casimir Joseph............................Illinois
Loker, Lauren Ferguson..............................Illinois
Long, Forest..............\.........................Illinois
Lepreau, Wm. Neville................................Illinois
Lahey, Charles William..............................Illinois
Larney, Fdwin John..................................Illinois
Lodeski, Joseph Anselm..............................Illinois
Lang, Leroy Francis.................................Illinois
Larson, John....................................... Illinois
Leslie, Joseph Woody................................Illinois
Livingston, Lester Meyer.............................Indiana
Lerner, Theodore Joseph..............................Indiana
Lytle, Lewis Francis...............................  Indiana
Lucas, George Maurice................................Indiana
Lensing, Henry Bernard...............................Indiana
Lippeat, David.......................................Indiana
Luzny, Francis Xavier..............................  Indiana
Lynch, James Joseph, Jr.................................Iowa
Linehan, Bmmett George..................................Iowa
Le Blanc, Joseph Vallery, Jr.......................Louisiana
Lee, Jay L........................................  Michigan
Leach, Wm. Fllis....................................Missouri
Lucas, Morton James...............;.................Missouri
Lillis, John Rdward................................Minnesota
Lucas, John Joseph...................................Montana
Lynch, George Alfred............................... New	York
Lyons, William J...................................New York
Loebs, Lari Raymond...............................New	Mexico
Langan, Cyril Glynn.................................Nebraska
Lockard, Frank Robert...................................Ohio
Lawrence, Charles Bassett...............................Ohio
Lang, Jerome Joseph..........................Ontario,	Canada
Lange, Bernard Herman...........................Pennsylvania
Logue, Francis Charles..........................Pennsylvania
i
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	239
Lawler, James Wm................................Pennsylvania
Laird, John Arthur.....................................Texas
Lynch, Robert Patrick...................................Utah
Lathrop, Ralph Jefferson...........................Wisconsin
Laughlin, Thomas McHugh............................Wisconsin
La Mothe, Ovid.....................................Wisconsin
Marquez, Juan Jose...................................Cuba
Marquez, Juan Eduardo..............................	. .Cuba
Mendez, Fernando Luis..............Colombia,	South America
Marion, Albert Gartland..........................Colorado
Milanowski, Stanislaus Francis...................Illinois
Mulcair, Michael Aloysius........................Illinois
McNamara, William Michael........................Illinois
McDonald, James Harold...................................Illinois
Mackin, Thomas John........................................Illinois
Morgan, Stephen Jayne....................................Illinois
Milroy, Robert Arthur......................................Illinois
Mathers, Aaron...........................................Illinois
Mathers, Andrew J........................................Illinois
Meersmann, Peter John....................................Illinois
Madden, Frank Denis......................................Illinois
Mehlem, John Joseph......................................Illinois
Moran, Louis Alphonsus...................................Illinois
Maltby, John Joseph........................................Illinois
Milligan, Peter' Robert.................................Illinois,
Murphy, John Cornelius...................................Illinois
Martel, George Wendell...........................;.........Illinois
Morley, Harry John.......................................Illinois
Maguire, Leon..........................................  Illinois
Messersmith, George Murray.............................. .Illinois
Muldoon, John Andrew.....................................Illinois
Mullaney, Paul Lynch.....................................Illinois
Mullaney, Robert Cyril...................................Illinois
Mullaney, Thomas Francis.................................Illinois
Morse, Robert Hosmer.....................................Illinois
Mullalley, Wm. Joseph....................................Illinois
Mee, Edward Francis......................................Illinois
Mee, Thomas Sim..........................................Illinois
Meehan, Martin Patrick...................................Illinois
Mann, Milton Charles.................................... Illinois
Marshall, Guy Frederick................................  Illinois
240	' BULLETIN OF THE
Maloney, Thomas Joseph...............................Illinois
Massey, George Joseph................................Illinois
Miller, Nicholas................?...................Illinois	’
Maiko wski, John Stanislaus........................Illinois
Milroy, William Joseph.............................Illinois
Mullikin, Paul Roscoe...............................Indiana
Miller, Martin Henry................................Indiana
Motts, Edward Theodore..............................Indiana
Mathis, Teo Anthony.................................Indiana
Myers, Mason Dean...................................Indiana
Myers, Albert Paul..................................Indiana
Mahaffey, "Dred Thomas..............................Indiana
Myers, Henry Jacob..................................Indiana
Margraf, John.......................................Indiana
Martin, Joseph Andrew...............................Indiana
Molle, T$mil Valerian...............................Indiana
Moynihan, Andrew Joseph.............................Indiana
Meuninck, Julius....................................Indiana
Matthew, B.............................................Iowa
Murphy, John Patrick......................... Massachusetts
Madden, Harold Daniel.............................Minnesota
Murphy, Paul Darrell..............................Minnesota
Murphy, Kingsley Hopkins..........................Minnesota
Murphy, Edward Harold...............................Michigan	.
Murphy, Charles Anthony............................Michigan
Mortiz, Louis Eugene...............................Michigan
Mann, Charles Hughes...............................Michigan
Muehlebach’ Henry John.............................Missouri
Monnig, Hugo, Jr...................................Missouri
Meyer, Charles Augustus..............................Mexico
Morales, Alfredo Eduardo.............................Mexico
Mendoza, Jose........................................Mexico
Murray, Harry Booth...............................New	Mexico
Mulcahy, Prank Patrick............................New York
Marcille, Gilbert Grover..........................New York
Moushey, Paul Joseph...................................Ohio
Munger, Harold Henry...................................Ohio
Mang, Vincent..........................................Ohio
Malone, Louis Peter....................................Ohio
Martin, John James.....................................Ohio
Miller, Ray Francis..................................  Ohio
Maloney, Eugene Augustine......................Pennsylvania
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
241
Miner, Peter Joseph..........................Pennsylvania
Maguire, Walter John.........................Pennsylvania
Megargee, Joseph Wilfrid.....................Pennsylvania
Megargee, Thomas Raymond................... Pennsylvania
Murphy, John James...........................Pennsylvania
Murphy, Owen Joseph..........................Pennsylvania
Marin, Francis, O. P...............................Spain
Miller, Lyman Wm.............................: .. . .Sweden
Monroe, Richard James..........................Wisconsin
Moran, Wm. James............................  .Wisconsin
Mathews, James Anthony.........................Wisconsin
Miller, John Clarke............................Wisconsin
McDonald, Lawrence Earl. . .•.................California
McGough, Edward Wm.............................  Illinois	*
McManus, Thomas Patrick.........................Illinois
McNichols, Austin Aloysius......................Illinois
McNichols, Harry Joseph Jr......................Illinois
McIntosh, Wade Donnell..........................Illinois
McEvoy, Joseph Patrick..........................Illinois
McMoran, Wm. Edward.............................Illinois
McGlynn, Joseph Bernard.........................Illinois
McEntee, Aloysius J. B...........................Indiana
McCarthy, Jeremiah Anthony.......................Indiana
McShane, John Joseph.......'......................Indiana	>
MacConnell, Walton Jerome........................Indiana
McConnell, James A...............................Indiana
McGuire, Thomas Frank...........♦................Indiana
McCormick, Rollin Daniel.......................  Indiana
McCarthy, Denis Timothy..........................Indiana
McDonald, Wm. Cecil..............................Indiana
McDonald, Donnelly Patrick.......................Indiana
- McGill, Robert Joseph............................Indiana
MacGregor, D onald...............................Indiana
■ McCarthy, John Vincent..............................Iowa
McGovern, Thomas Aloysius...........................Iowa
McGarry, William Everett.................  Massachusetts
McNamara, Roger Bernard.........................Michigan
McDonnell, Joseph Patrick......................Minnesota
McGreevy, John Timothy.........................Minnesota
McCarthy, Louis Augustine......................Minnesota
McCarthy, Charles Herman.......................Minnesota
242
BULLBTIN OB THB
McGinnis, Daniel Vincent.........................Missouri
McCarren, Bdward Walter..........................Missouri
McConnell, Harold Andrew. . . .*.................Nebraska
McDonough, Brands John..........................New	Jersey
McSweeny, John Patrick..........................New	York
McBride, Thomas Mars............................New	York
McGrath, Joseph Michael.........................New	York
McLaughlin, Thomas Flynn........................New	York
McKimm, Lawrence Bari................................Ohio
McNicol, Cornelius Charles...........................Ohio
McHugh, Bdwin Chas...................................Ohio
McCune, Robert Henry.............................Oklahoma
McGladigan, Gerald Joseph....................Pennsylvania
McLaughlin, Joseph Clifford.............'.....Pennsylvania
McNichol, Daniel John........................Pennsylvania
McQuade, Bernard James.......................Pennsylvania
McBride, Francis Bernard.....................Pennsylvania
McCague, John Francis........................Pennsylvania
McGrath, Chester Martin.....................  South	Dakota
McCafferty, James Pancratius...................Washington
McCamic, Bdward Paul..........................West Virginia
McNamara, Charles Raymond.......................Wisconsin
McGinnity, Francis Andrew.......................Wisconsin
McCoy, George Nolan.............................Wisconsin
McNamara, Vincent Francis.......................Wisconsin
McIntosh, Robert Burns..........................Wisconsin
Newton, Ralph William............................Illinois
Nelson, Nicholas Joseph, Jr......................Illinois
Newgass, Mitchell Cornelius......................Illinois
Newton, Joesph Fay...............................Illinois
Niemier, Melchor Stanislaus.......................Indiana
Neifer, Dale Schudder.............................Indiana
Nieuwland, Arthur.................................Indiana
Nowers, Paul.......................................Kansas
Norbert, B.................................;......Michigan
Noud, Reuben Patrick.............................Michigan
Nippert, Carl Louis.............................Minnesota
Norckauer, Maurice Joseph............................Ohio
Nolan, James Daniel..................................Ohio
Nolan, Michael Harvey................................Ohio
Norton, Bdward George.........................South	Dakota
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	243
Newning, Samuel D......................................Texas
Newning, Harry M.......................................Texas
O’Neill, Terrence James..........................Connecticut
O’Neill, Wm. Michael................................Illinois
O’Connell, Theodore Wm..............................Illinois
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph..............................Illinois
O’Connell, John Francis.............................Illinois
O’Donoghue, John Brennan............................Illinois
O’Brien, James Francis..............................Illinois
O’Connell, John Wm..................................Illinois
Osborne, Lee........................................Illinois
Oliphant, Daniel Carstairs..........................Illinois
O’Donnell, Thomas Raymond............................Indiana
O’Hara, Robert Emmett............................... Indiana
O’Neill, Ronald Sylvester............................Indiana
O’Hara, Herman Benedict..............................Indiana
O’Brien, Arthur Coffey..............................Michigan
Outhouse, David Edward..............................Michigan
O’ Malley, J ohn J oseph............................Missouri
0’Hearn, Francis Maurice............................Missouri
O’Neil, Henry W., Jr................................Missouri
O’Rourke, Frank Camillus................................Ohio
O’Neil, Thomas Francis..................................Ohio
O’Brien, Paul Francis...................................Ohio
O’Hara, James William...................................Ohio
Oshe, Marcellus Matthew.................................Ohio
O’Brien, John Francis...............................Oklahoma
O’Boyle, Desmond Gladstone...................Ontario,	Canada
O’Reilly, Francis Warren..............................Oregon
O’Reilly, Patrick John..........................Pennsylvania
O ’ Rourke, Charles.............................Pennsylvania
O’Copnell, Frank Maurice................•.......Pennsylvania
O’Hanlon, Joseph Redmond...............................Texas
Oaas, Torgus.......................................Wisconsin
Philbrook, George Warren......................... California
Powers, Martin John.................................Illinois
Petru, Edmund John..................................Illinois
Parke, Frederick....................................Illinois
Polakow, Julius.....................................Illinois
244
bulletin of the
Popham, Byron Argyle.....................................Illinois
Phillip, Philip John.....................................Illinois
Pliska, Joseph Stanley...................................Illinois
Plant, John............'.................................Illinois
Parish, William Joseph...................................Illinois
Pashek, Hilary Andrew Joseph..............................Indiana
Page, Harvey Austin.......................................Indiana
Peak, John Elmer..........................................Indiana
Phillips, Wendell Thomas............................Massachusetts
Portillo, Guillermo Lopez..................................Mexico
Portillo, Eduardo Lopez....................................Mexico
Prieto, Salavdor...........................................Mexico
Palmer, Fred Wallace.................................... Michigan
Pepin, Donat Joseph .....................................Michigan
Phibbs, John...........................................New York
Peurrung, Joseph Chas........................................Ohio
Pascoe, Wm. Henry..................................South Dakota
Powell, Samuel Clarence......................................Utah
Peil, Edward Fyans.....................................Wisconsin
Quigley, Thomas. Daniel..................................Illinois
Quinn, Charles Francis..............................Massachusetts
Quintanilla, Ignacio....................................d	. Mexico x
Quarry, Paul Thomas......................................Michigan
Quinlan, Patrick Thomas......................................Ohio
Quinlan, Frank Michael.................................New York
Robinson, Charles John. ...............................California
Rubio, Ramon Garcia..........................................Cuba
Roach, James Emmet.......................................Illinois
Ranstead, Norman Hugh....................................Illinois
Rogers, Charles Joseph...................................Illinois
Ryan, Thomas Anthony.....................................Illinois
Ryan, Francis John..........<............................Illinois
Rockne, Knute............................................Illinois
Railton, Bert Albert, Jr.................................Illinois
Regan, George Joseph.....................................Illinois
Risch, Robert............................................Illinois
Railton, John R. T.......................................Illinois
Rothe, Charles Edward....................................Illinois
Ridges, Robert...........................................Illinois
Reilly, Charles Joseph...................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	245
I	-'
Reynolds, Charles Louis............................Indiana
Reeder, Edward Earl................................Indiana
Rokop, Andrew Michael..............................Indiana
Romine, Lawrence...................................Indiana
Roach, Edward Andrew..................................Iowa
Roach, Robert Leonard...............................  Iowa
Reeber, Charles Christopher......................Louisiana
Renames, Erank Bernard...........,...........Massachusetts
Richardson, Alfred Haldeman..................Massachusetts
Ryan, Vincent DePaul..............................Michigan
Reading, Almon Franklin...........................Michigan
Reading, Harvey Judd..............................Michigan
Ryan, Howard Joseph...............................Michigan
Rutkoskie, Harry T................................Michigan
Reilly, Andrew Joseph, Jr.....,...................Missouri
Robins, James Vermont..........................New Mexico
Riedman, Emil John...............................New York
Rose, Edward Joseph..............................New York
Rowland, Walter Daniel................................Ohio
Ryan, Arthur Wm.......................................Ohio
Ryan, Francis Martin..................................Ohio
Redmond, Wm. Thomas...................................Ohio
Reilly, Thomas Walter.................................Ohio
Read, Augustus Lee....................................Ohio
Rohan, Howard Joseph..................................Ohio
Rebillott, Laurence Joseph............................Ohio
Ricker, Alfred Herman.................................Ohio
Ryan, Paul Joseph..............................Pennslyvania
Reily, Cornelius Frank........................Pennsylvania
Ryan, Edmund Joseph..................................Texas
Rea, John Wentworth...............................Virginia
Rothwell, Erwin Carl...............................Wyoming
Rothwell, Paul August..............................Wyoming
San Pedro, Alvaro R...................................Cuba
San Pedro, Jorge Rodriguez............................Cuba
Steitz, Gustave John..............................Illinois
Schwalbe, Oscar Henry.............................Illinois
Seery, Thomas Joseph..............................Illinois
Susen, Henry Peter................................Illinois
Smith, Delbert Devereaux..........................Illinois
Sturdivant, Wm. Oskeson...........................Illinois
246
buwin of thf
Smith, Chas. Hewitt...................................Illinois
Sakanovsky, Ralph.....................................Illinois
Schinkoeth, Leroy.....................................Illinois
Stettauer, Martin Stanley...........................  Illinois
Stoll, DeRorest.......................................Illinois
Stoll, Robert................,........................Illinois
Sullivan, John Francis................................Illinois
Smith, Myrle Bdwin....................................Illinois
Sax, Carl Wm..........................................Illinois
Shaughnessy, Thomas Joseph............................Illinois
Stephen, Bimer Joseph.....................’...........Illinois
Stack, James' Joseph..................................Illinois
Shafer, Floyd............................  ...........Illinois
Schumacher, Leo Albert.....................‘...........Indiana
Scheibelhut, Leo Chas..................................Indiana
Schafer, Arthur George.................................Indiana
Schwartz, Samuel Paul..................................Indiana
Stull, Arlie Weslie....................................Indiana
Stueckle, Clarence Chas.................................Indiana	.
Steis, Bdmund Gerald...................................Indiana
Schafer, Oscar Otto....................................Indiana
Stanton, Harold Mortimer...............................Indiana
Schreyer, Andrew Ignatius..............................Indiana
Saunders, Fred.......................................  Indiana
Striebel, Floyd' Henry.................................Indiana
Stanford, Frank Curtis..................................Kansas
Sheehan, Charles Aloysius........................Massachusetts
Sanchez, Alfred Arnulfo.................................Mexico
SotoMayor, David Jose...................................Mexico
Saravia, Augustin Gonzalez..............................Mexico
SotoMayor, Luis G.......................................Mexico
Strahan, William Speer Paul..........................Michigan
Simon, Henry Anthony................................  Michigan
Schwartz, Theodore...................................Michigan
Sturn, Leo Alfred....................................Michigan
Sullivan, Donald Walter..............................Michigan
Scheid, Theodore Joseph...............................Michigan
Smith, Arthur Wm..................:..................Minnesota
Sombart, George Wm..................................  Missouri
Sponsler, Wm. Joseph.................................Missouri
Smith, James Patrick.................................Missouri
Shannon, Leo Justin..................................Montan
a
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
247
Shepard, George..-.................................New York
Smith, Joseph Clovis.............f.................New York
Salmon, Joseph Emmett..............................New York
Shouvlin, Daniel R. E....................................Ohio
Smith, Glenn Andrew..................’...................Ohio
Savord, Edmond Henry.....................................Ohio
Stack, Joseph Wm.........................................Ohio
Sanford, James Edward....................................Ohio
Smith, Joseph Erancis....................................Ohio
Sawkiiis, J ohn Alfred...................................Ohio
Soisson, Leon Joseph ...........................*........Ohio
Studer, Ernest William...................................Ohio
Schmitt, Paul Anthony....................................Ohio
Strassner, George Francis...................................Ohio	’
Shea, Thomas Fenlon..................................Oklahoma
Scollard, Stephen Fitzgerald...........................Oregon
Skelly, Daniel Joseph............................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Basil Joseph............................Pennsylvania
Smith, Walter Aloysius...........................Pennyslvania
Spillane, John Owen...........4..................Pennsylvania
Spillane, Arthur James.........................  Pennsylvania
Stubler, Peter Charles...........................Pennsylvania
Sweeney, Thomas Charles..........................South	Dakota
Sullivan, Daniel Edwin, Jr...............................Utah
Sullivan, Melville Edward............................Virginia
Steppier, Joseph Peter..............................Wisconsin
Stewart, Frederick James............................Wisconsin
Sieber, Raymond Joseph..............................Wisconsin
Thole, Joseph Isidore...................................Idaho
Tomczak, Ladislaus Proch.............................Illinois
Twomey, Maurice Finbar..................................Illinois	'
Turner, J ay Marcus..................................Illinois
Traynor, James Joseph................................Illinois
Tomaszeski, Stanislaus Hilary.........................Indiana
Tansey, Joseph Aloysius...............‘...............Indiana
Thomas, John Manchester...............................Indiana
Troxler, Creston Roch...............................Louisiana
Thoney, Gordon John......................•...........Michigan
Truscott, Fred Louis..................................Montana
Tierney, Harry Bernard...............................Nebraska
Tipton, Wm, Ruben, Jr.............................New Mexico
248
BULLETIN OF THE
Twining, Simon Brcile....................................Ohio
Theophilus, B....................................Pennsylvania
Taylor, Bari Cecil..............................West Virginia
Terry, Patrick......................................Wisconsin
Uhls, Harold Sydney..................................Illinois
Usera, Bernando Hector............................Porto Rico
Viso, Nemesio Celso......................................Cuba
Viso, Vincent Manuel.....................................Cuba
Viso, Joaquin Annilio....................................Cuba
Viso, Geraldo Alejandro..................................Cuba
Van Cleve, Branklin Howard...........................Illinois
Verhoeven, August Teo................................Illinois
Volland, Gordon Byron................................Illinois
Vaughan, Charles Leo................................  Indiana
Voelkers, John Joseph.............................'. . . .Indiana
Vogt, Richard Rockhill................................Indiana
Valles, Jose Trinidad..................................Mexico
Valles, Manuel Donaciano . . . >.......................Mexico
Vassalo, Walter...................................Nova Scotia
Vincent, B...............................................Ohio
Vogel, Leo Joseph....................’...........Pennsylvania
Wasson, James........................................Illinois
Williams, Solly....................................  Illinois
Wright, Kenneth Bugene...............................Illinois
Williams, Max........................................Illinois
Welsh, Roland	Battersby ...........................Illinois
Welch, Thomas	Rowland..............................Illinois
World, Lewis Walter..................................Illinois
Wassdn, Robert Henry...............................  Illinois
Walter, Martin	Bmmett...............................Illinois
Weidner, Hubert Pancratius...........................Illinois
Welch, Lawrence Joseph................................Indiana
Welch, Leo Brancis....................................Indiana
Ware, James Michael...................................Indiana
Williams, Bred....................................* .. Indiana
Welch, John Aloysius..................................Indiana
Wentland, Brank Louis.................................Indiana
Waligorski, Leo Branics.;.............................Indiana
Winer, Charles....................................... ,. Indiana
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	249
Walter B.........................................Indiana
Winkelman, Mervin Thorpe............................Iowa
Wildgen, Jerome Charles. . . .....................Kansas
Wathen, Wm. Nicholas............................Kentucky
Williams, Wm. Joseph........................, .. .. Kentucky
Wendland, Robert Joseph.........................Michigan
Wilmes, Carl Edward.............................Michigan
Walkoviak, Roman................................Michigan
Weeks, Edward James.............................Michigan
Wells, March Forth..............................Michigan
Walsh, Francis Joseph...........................Missouri
Whitman, Frank Joseph...........................Missouri
Ward, John Michael...............................Montana
Walsh, Arthur Ready..............................New	Jersey
Walsh, John Joseph...............................New	York
Walsh, James Russell.................................Ohio
Williamson, Clarence John............................Ohio
Walsh, George Raymond...............................Ohio
Walsh, Thomas Joseph, Jr....................Pennsylvania
Walsh, Joseph Martin........................Pennsylvania
White, Carl Bradford...........................Tennessee
White, Richard Mitchell........................Tennessee
Wittenberg, John Conrad.....................West Virginia
Wittenberg, J. P. Newman....................West Virginia
Wall, Wm. Francis.......e......................Wisconsin
Youngerman, Frank, Jr.. . ..........................Iowa
Yund, Walter Sidney..............................Montana
Yerns, Peter Charles.............................New	York
Zubiria, Nicholas...................Colombia,	South America
Zilky, Robert John...................................Indiana
Zgodzinski, Leo Stanislaus...........................Indiana
Zahm, William Mathias................................Indiana
Zapata, Lino Eduardo..................................Mexico
Zweck, Alfred Christian............................Wisconsin
250
BUBBBTIN OB THB
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS
1911-12
Honorary President.
RBv. John T. O’Connbbb, LL. B., ’06,
Toledo, Ohio.
President.
Danish Patrick Murphy, ’95,
New York City.
V ice-Presidents.
Mark Foot#, ’73,
Chicago, Ill.
Michabb O. Burns, ’86,
Hamilton, Ohio.
' Harry Grattan Hogan, ’04,
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Samubb Michabb Boban, ’io,
Albany, Oregon.
John C. Shba, ’ii,
Bayton, Ohio.
John Carb Tubby, ’ii,
Bl Paso, Ill.
Secretary.
Rbv. Wibbiam A. Mobonby, C. S. C.,
Notre Bame, Indiana.
Treasurer.
BbzBRB E. CarTIBR, ’92,
Ludington, Michigan.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
251
Trustees ’io-’i2.
Henry A. Steis, ’85,
South Bend, Indiana.
Dr. James M. Dinnen, ’96,
Bort Wayne, Indiana.
Clement C. Mitchell, ’02,
Chicago, Ill.
Trustees, ’u-’i3.
REV. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. C., ’91,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Proe. Wieeiam Hoynes, ’91,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Byron V. Kan ale y, ’04,
Chicago, Ill.
Trustees, ex-officio.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., D. D., ’90,
President University of Notre Dame.
Daniel Patrick Murphy, ’95,
President Notre Dame Alumni Association.
LOCAL CLUBS
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OE NEW YORK.
Rev. Duke J. Rvers, President, 20 City Hall Place.
Charles A. , Gorman, Vice-President, 208 Hooper St.,
Brooklyn.
Peter P. M. McRlligott, Secretary, 112 Wall St.
Thomas Murray, Treasurer.
* THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OE PORTLAND.
Hon. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
John F. Daly, Vice-President.
R. J. Lonergan, Sec.-Treas., Columbia University.
BULLBTIN OB THB
252
THB NOTRB DAMB CLUB OB BOSTON.
Dr. Dian cis E. Carroll, President, 217 Huntington Ave.
Hon. William P. Higgins, Vice-President, 43 Tremont
Street.
Dr. John Hennessy, Secretary, Dorchester. -
THB NOTRB DAMB CLUB OB PHILADBLPHIA.
James P. Fogarty, President, Betz Bldg.
Joseph D. Murphy, Vice-President.
Andrew J. Hanhauser, Secretary, 27 N. fiftieth St.
John H. Neeson, Treasurer, 1701 Columbia Ave.
TUB NOTRB DAMB CLUB OB MILWAUKBB.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Bldg.
Prank P. Burke, Vice-President, 900 Pabst Bldg.
George F. Ziegler, Secretary.
Louis E. Best, Treasurer. '
THB NOTRB DAMB CLUB OB DAYTON.
John C. Shea, President.
Peter Kuntz, Vice-President.
A. W. McFarland, Secretary-Treasurer.	'
TUB NOTRB DAMB CLUB OB BORT WAYNB.
John W. Eggeman, President.
Harry G. Hogan, Vice-President.
Robert Fox, Treasurer.
Joseph M. Haley, Secretary.
THB TWIN-CITY CLUB OB ST. PAUL AND MINNBAPOLIS.
Rev. Edmund O’Connor, President.
F.* E- Murphy, Vice-President.
William D. Jamison, Secretary.
T. O’Regan, Treasurer.
R. G. O’Malley, W. O’Brien, V. E. Morrison, Executive
Committee.
9
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	253
SIXTY-SEVENTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
JUNE, 1911
CONFERRING OF DEGREES .
The Degree of Doctor of Science in Course was
conferred on:
James Joseph Walsh of New York City.
"Thesis: “The Popes and Science.”
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred:
On a distinguished jurist whose brilliance in the
pleading of causes’ has been equalled only by his
erudition ‘ and justice upon the bench, and whose
administration of large enterprises has been sur-
passed only by the wisdom with which he has
guided the destinies of a great sovereign State,
The Honorable Judson Harmon, Governor
of the State of Ohio.
On a distinguished son of Notre Dame whose
priestly virtue is equalled only by the modesty
which veils it from the public eye; a missionary
who has contributed to the work of the Church in
America its greatest and most original idea, the
giving of missions for those outside the fold; an
eloquent orator, a father of the spiritual life, a
great patriot and a great priest,
Walter Elliott of the Paulist Community,
New York City.
On another son of Notre Dame, the founder of a
great newspaper, an exponent of the cleanest and
most wholesome as well as the most enterprising
journalism; a defender of every good cause; a
patron of art and a leader of his people,
William Rockhill Nelson, editor of the
, Kansas City Star.
254
BUIyly^TlN OB THB
On an illustrious lawyer and statesman whose
work in the Hague Peace Tribunal has won him
the gratitude as well as the admiration of the
world; whose constructive statesmanship has re-
dounded to the glory of his country as his legal
learning has added prestige to her highest Court
of justice,
The Right Honorable Sir Charles Fitzpatrick,°
Chief Justice and Deputy Governor of the
Dominion of Canada.
The Degr.ee of Master of Science was conferred on:
Edgar Armistead Milner, Portland, Oregon.
The degree of Master of Science in Mathematics was
conferred on:
Jose Angel Caparo y Perez, Peru, South America.
The degree of Master of Science in Chemistry was
conferred on:
Guillermo Patterson Jr., New York City.
The degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on:
William Arthur Carey, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Peter Paul Forrestal, WatertQwn, Wisconsin.
Joseph Charles Goddeyne, Bay City, Michigan.
Michael Conran Hayes, Waterbury, Connecticut.
John Henry Mullin, Pittston, Pennsylvania.
James Francis McElhohe, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Joseph Andrew Ouinlan, Chicago, Illinois.
Joseph Michael Toth, South Bend, Indiana.
The degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on:
Patrick J. Carroll, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Patrick J. Dalton, C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana.
Maurice John Breen, Fort Dodge, Iowa.
Edward Keenan Delana, Cortland, Illinois.
Joseph Nicholas Donahue, South Bend, Indiana.-
James Leo Fish, Boston, Massachusetts.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
255
Thomas Aloysius Havican, Homestead, Pennsylvania.
Albert Andrew Hilkert, Canton, Ohio.
Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan City, Indiana.
Charles Joseph Marshall, Doylestown, Ohio.
William Bverett McGarry, Boston, Massachusetts.
Anthony John Rosewicz, South Bend, Indiana.
Wenceslaus Sobolewski, Chicago, Illinois.
Bran cis Joseph Wenninger, South Bend, Indiana.
The degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred on:
Arthur John Hughes, Budd, Illinois.	.
Henry John Ruble, Salem, South Dakota.
» Richard Herbert Keeffe, Sioux City, Iowa.
Charles Christopher Miltner, Lake City, Minnesota.
John Brands McNulty, St. Louis, Missouri.
John Brands O’Hara, Indianapolis, Ohio.
James Clement Sexton, Canton, Ohio.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was con-
ferred on:
James Gerard Kramer, Canton, Ohio.
O, Jasper Howard Lawton, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Harry Joseph Zimmer, Millvale, Pennsylvania.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry was
conferred on:
Bdward Jerome Glynn, Springfield, Massachusetts.
Bdmond John Quinn, Antwerp, New York.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture was
conferred on:
William Bernard Helmkamp, Delphos, Ohio.
The degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on: x
Pedro Antonio DeLandero, Guadalajara, Mexico.
Bimo Ambrose Bunk, Anderson, Indiana.
Nicholas August Gamboa, Cienfuegos, Cuba.
Anton Raymond Hebenstreit, Shullsburg, Wisconsin.
Juan L. Romana, Arequipa, Peru, South America.
256	bulletin of the
- George William Wolff, Mexico City, Mexico.
George Edward Washburn, Chicago, Illinois.
The degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on:
William Simpson Arnold, Holyoke, Massachusetts.
Thomas Cleveland Hughes, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
' Robert Raymond Shenk, Delphos, Ohio.
The degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred on:
Paul Keeley Barsaloux, Chicago, Illinois.	-
Rafael Garcia, Puebla, Mexico.
William John Heyl, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania.
Herman C. R. Piper, Stillwater, Minnesota.
Rudolph Otto Probst, South Bend, Indiana.
John Carl Tully, El Paso, Illinois.
John Marion Wilson, New York City.
Jesse Eustaquio Vera, Queretaro, Mexico.
The degree of Chemical Engineer was conferred on:
Guillermo Patterson Jr., New York City.
The degree of Engineer of Mines was conferred on:
' Albert Lorenzo Metcalf, Shullsburg, Wisconsin.
The degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on:
Leo Francis Buckley, South Bend, Indiana.
John Jerome Brislin, Homestead, Pennsylvania.
Joseph James Collins, Boston, Massachusetts.
Ralph Chester Dimmick, Hubbard, Oregon.
Robert John Dederich, Saginaw, Michigan.
Joseph Thomas Dixon, Connellsville, Pennsylvania.
James Edward Deery, Indianapolis,, Indiana.
J. Wilfred Ely, Jeanette, Pennsylvania.
Daniel Rolf Foley, Deerfield, Michigan.
Thomas Hugh Eord, Day ton, Ohio.
Edward L. Figel, Chicago, Illinois.
James Leo Hope, De Kalb, Illinois.
Albert Michael Kelly, Morris, Illinois.
Joseph Benedict Murphy, Dayton, Ohio.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
257
Justin Janies Molony, Crawfordsville, Indiana.
Joseph John Maroney, Red Creek, New York.
Wilmer Leo O’Brien, Elkhart, Indiana.
James Baldwin^O’Blynn, Butte, Montana.
William Richard Ryan, Cleveland, Ohio.
Arthur Anthony Schellinger, Mishawaka, Indiana.
Bred Llewellyn Steers, Chicago, Illinois.
Clement L. Ulatowski, Chicago, Illinois.
John Wesley Welch, Mishawaka, Indiana.
The degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was conferred on:
Leon Brands Barbazette, Terre Haute, Indiana.
Bred Charles Dana, Bond du Lac, Wisconsin.
Otto Sylvester Hanon, Langford, South Dakota.
Henry Charles Moritz, Peoria, Illinois.
Bred George Wirthman, Kansas City, Missouri.
The degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on:
Edward Joseph Story,1 Elk City, Oklahoma.
Michael Brands Somers, Bloomington, Illinois.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical En-
gineering were conferred on:
John Proctor Dant, Louisville, Kentucky.
Philip Louis Bieck, Tiffin, Ohio.
Jose M. Mendoza, Chihuahua, Mexico.
James Joseph McCaffrey, South Bend, Indiana.
Carole Joseph Schmidt, Tiffin, Ohio.
Vaughan Henry Talcott, Louisville, Kentucky.
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical En-
gineering were conferred on:
Borest Clay Hyten, Ladoga, Indiana.
Julius Meuninck, Mishawaka, Indiana.
Lawrence Philip Schubert, Indiana.
Certificate for the Short Program in Architecture was
conferred on:
Dalton Bacon Shourds, Terre Haute, Indiana.
258
BULLETIN OB THE
PRIZE MEDALS
The Quan Gold Medal, presented b;7 the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Program, Senior Year, and a
money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of Mr. Henry
Quan, in memory of his deceased father, was awarded
to
Joseph Andrew Quinlan, Chicago, Illinois.
The Meehan Gold Medal for English Essays, presented
by Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, Covington, Kentucky, was
awarded to
Thomas Aquinas Lahey, Michigan City, Indiana.
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the class of ’77,
for the best record for four years in the Civil En-
gineering Program, was awarded to
Nicholas August Gamboa, Cienfuegos, Cuba.
The Breen Gold Medal lor Oratory, presented by
the Hon. William P. Breen, of the class of 77’, was
awarded to
Charles Christopher Miltner, Lake City, Minnesota.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by
the Hon. P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
Patrick Henry Cunning, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Seventy-Live Dollars for Debating work, was awarded
as follows:
Thirty Dollars to
William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
Twenty-five Dollars to
John Thomas Burns, Kalamazoo, Michigan,
Twenty Dollars to
James Leo Hope, De Kalb, Illinois.-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
259
Ten Doeears in Goed for Junior Oratory, presented
by Mr. Janies V. O’Donnell, of the class of ’89, was
awarded to	'
William Joseph Parish, Momence, Illinois.
Ten Doeears in Goed for Sophomore Oratory, presented
by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the class of ’91, was
awarded to	„
William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
Ten Doelars in Goed for Freshman Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the class of ’91, was
awarded to
Alfred John Brown, Portland, Oregon.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The Fitzsimmons Goed Medae for Christian Doc-
trine, presented by the Rev. W. J. Fitzsimmons,
Chicago, was awarded to	,
. Jorge San Pedro, Consolacion del Sur, Cuba.
The O’Brien Goed Medae for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence A.
O’Brien, of Chicago, was awarded to
John J. Margraf, Notre Dame, Indiana.
I
The Joseph A. Lyons Goed Medae for Elocution
was awarded to
Patrick Henry Dolan, Springfield, Illinois.
Ten Doeears in Goed for Preparatory Oratory,
presented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell, of the class
of ’04, was awarded to
James Vermont Robins, Hillsboro, New Mexico.
26o
bulletin of the
The Mason Medal, donated by Mr. George Mason, of
Chicago, to the student in the Preparatory School
whose scholastic record has been the best during the
school year was awarded to
Patrick Dougherty, Chicago, Illinois.
The Commercial Medal given to the student who has
attained the best record in Commercial subjects for
the school year was awarded to
Carl Aloysius Meyer, Monroeville, Ohio.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to
Francis Bdward Quish, Dexter, Michigan.
Carl Meyer, Monroeville, Ohio.
Joseph Henry Meyer, Wellsburg, West Virginia.
Reinhold Lang, Berlin, Ontario, Canada.
William Libert Carrico, Raywich, Kentucky.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	261
INDEX.
Administration Building, Christian Doctrine,
The....................... 12	Courses in..... 132
Admission to the Colleges, Church, The......................... 12
19, 4b 55, 63, 87, 95, 106 Civil Engineering, The
Advanced Standing... 20 105	Department of'.'............ 72
Alumni Association	Civil Engineering, Courses
Officers..............250	in......................... 133
Anatomy, Courses in.. 50, 116 Civil Governm’t, Courses
Architecture, The Collegers	in......................... 201
of.................... 95	Classics, The Department
Architecture, Courses in.. 116	of.......................... 42
Arts and Letters, The Col- . Colleges :
lege of............... 39	College of Arts and
Astronomy, Courses in.. 123 Letters............................ 39
Athletics.............17,	31 College of Architecture. 95
Bachelors’ Degrees......	22	College	of Engineering..	69
Bacteriology, Course in..	124	College	of .Law. 106
Biology, Program in....	61	College	of Science....	49
Biological Laboratories..	49	Commercial High School..	213
Board of Trustees........	4	Commencement.......... 253
Board and Lodging. .	.35,	220	Concerts and Lectures	..	33
Botany, Course in.... 125	Corby Hall............ 15
Botanical Laboratories..	50	Courses of Instruction.! 15,	201
Breen Medal........... 28	Debating Prize........ 29
Brownson Hall............. 16	’.Degrees.............22,	253
Buildings.............12,	18 Directory of the University 2
Calendar................... 3	Directors of Halls......	10
Carroll Scholarship.....	26	Discipline...................... 29
Carroll Hall.............. 16	Doctor of Philosophy,
Charter................... 11	The Degree of.......	24
Chemical Engineering,	Dormitories...........15,	16
The Department of.. 92 Drawing, Courses in.. 141,
Chemical Laboratories.. 14., 52	144, 201
Chemistry, The Depart- Economics, The Depart-
ment of............... 59	ment of..................... 42
Chemistry, Courses in.... 127 Economics, Courses in..	184
262
BULLETIN OF THE
Elocution, Courses in.. .. 150
Elocution Medals........	28
Electrical Engineering,
The Department of. . 84
Electrical Engineering,
Courses in.............. 147
Engineering, The College
of.................. 66
English, Courses in.. 152, 202
Entrance Requirement
21, 41, 65, 106
Executive Officers......	5
Expenses.........35,	36, 220
Faculty............*..6,	193
Ford Scholarship......... 26
French, Courses in.. 186,
190, 203
Geology, Courses in.... . 153
German, Courses in.. 155, 205
Graduate Courses.. . 124,
152, 158, 161,
163, 165, 180, 186
Grammar School.......... 216
Greek, Courses in... 156, 204
Gymnasium................ 17
History and Economics,
The Department of..	42
History, Courses in.. 158, 206
Historical Sketch of the
University........... 12
Honors and Prizes.. . .27, 258
Hospital................. 17
Infirmary................ 17
Instruction, System of 18, 108
Instructors in the Prepar-
atory School....... 193
Italian, Courses in..... 188
Johnson Scholarship..... 26
Journalism, The Depart-
ment of.............. 46
Journalism, The Course in 160
Laboratory Fees......57,
59, 61, 65, 70, 196
Laboratories. . 39, 49, 50,
52, 53, 82
Latin, Courses in.. . . 161, 207
Law, The College of.. . . 106
Law, Courses in........ 112
Lectures and Concerts...	33
Letters, The Department
of.................. 39
Library, The Main.......	12
Libraries, Department
40, 49, 52, 64, 80,-in
List of Students........ 226
Lodging, Board and..35, 220
Local Clubs............. 251
Mason Medal............. 27
Masters’ Degrees........	23
Mathematics, Courses in
163, 208
Meehan Medal............ 27
Mechanical Engineering,
The Department of. . 76
Mechanical Engineering,
Courses in......... 165
Metallurgy, Courses in. . 170
Microscopy, Courses in... 173
Military.............   222
Minims, The School for. . 217
Mining Engineering, The
Department of.......	91
Mining Engineering,
Course in.......... 172
Museum.................. 13
Music Hall.............. 13
Music, Courses in....... 173
Observatory............. 15
Officers of the University.. 5
Oratory, Courses in.... 150
Pharmacy, The Depart-
ment of............. 63
Pharmacy, Courses in. ... 176
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	263
Philosophy, Courses in... 178
Physical Laboratories... 53
Physics, Courses in...... 180
Physiology, Courses in. . . 182
Political Science, Courses
in................... 184
Politics, Courses in..... 185
Portuguese, Courses in . . . 189
Preparatory School... 192, 196
Prizes.................27, 258
Professors.............6, 193
Program of Studies.......
43,	44,	45,	47,	58,
60,	62,	66,	67,	75,
81,	83,	88,	90,	93,
94,	103,	104,	105,	197,
198, 199, 200
Provencal, Courses in.. .. 190
Psychology, Courses in. .. 179
Psychological Laboratory 39
Quan Medal................ 27
Regulations Governing
Admission to the
Colleges.............. 19
Romance Languages,
Courses in.......... 186
Scholarships.............. 25
Science Hall............. 13
Science, The College of...	49
Science, Program of
General. .-.......... 57
Science, Courses in Ele-
mentary.............. 210
Short Programs in
Architecture........... 101
Electrical Engineering.. 89
Mechanical Engineering 82
Shops, The............... 14
Shopwork, Courses in.... 170'
Sociology, Courses in.. .. 186
Societies................ 34
Sorin Hall............... 15
Spanish, Courses in...... 188
Special Students......25, 107
St. Joseph Hall.......... 17
System of Instruction.. .	18
Title (Legal) of the Uni-
versity............... 11
Theater, The University.. 13
Trustees, Board of.......	4
Tuition Fees..........35,	220
Walsh Hall............... 15
Washington Hall..........	13
Zoology, Courses in...... 190
It is desired that every graduate receive a copy
of the Bulletin. The Faculty will therefore con-
sider it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnus
changes his address. ' T .	. . -
Ori application to the President, bulletir s will
be sent to all who are interested in the work of
the University. /	: