Series VI.	.	Number IV.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
April, 1911
SEnteredat the Postoffice, Notre Dnme, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, 1905
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The Faculty—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hate in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffi.ee, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance
Telephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Central
railways run directly into South Bend.
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
REV. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Bro. ALBAN, C. S. C.,
secretary.
FACULTY OF THE DEPARTMENT
OF PHARMACY
ROBERT L. GREEN, Ph. G.,
Pharmacy and Materia Medica.
Rev. ALEXANDER KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Microscopy and Bacteriology.
Rev. JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Analytical Chemistry.
Rev. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Organic Chemistry and Botany.
Rev. THOMAS J. IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
Rev. MICHAEL A. QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
English.
KNOWLES B. SMITH, E. M.,
Geology.
ERANCIS POWERS, M. D.,
Physiology and Histology.
JOHN S. WORDEN, B. S.
General Chemistry.
Q
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body, corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as is customary in other
universities in the United States.”
I
THE DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
The Department of Pharmacy of the University of
Notre Dame was established in 1898. Prom the very
beginning the department has enjoyed a healthy and
satisfactory growth, a growth which gives every promise
of continuance. The equipment and scope of the work
have been enlarged from time to time in order to keep
abreast of progress in pharmaceutical lines. This pro-
gressive policy will continue to be maintained. The
aim kept constantly in view is to furnish a broad,
thorough, practical training in pharmacy, which will
enable the student to take his place creditably in any
of the varied branches of his calling. That this aim
has been fully realized is attested by the fact that
many of our graduates in pharmacy are occupying
positions of responsibility in large drug houses,—whole-
sale, retail and manufacturing.
The location of the University is ideal. It is situated
on the banks of two charming lakes, near the St. Joseph
river, a river famous for its beauty as well as its history.
The climate is agreeable and health-promoting, temp-
ered in winter as well as in summer by Lake Michigan,
which is not far distant. The location of the University
away from the immediate neighborhood of a large city
is another great advantage. Removed from the dis-
tractions of city life the student can devote his whole
attention undisturbed to his work and in consequence
can make better progress than he could if he were
subject to those distractions. The instructors, too,
devote their whole time to teaching and this of course
insures thoroughness.
That the advantage of a scientific training is being
9
8
bulletin of the
recognized more and more every day is proved by the
increasing number of students choosing this line of
work. The hand is trained as well as the mind, and
thus is furnished an evenly balanced education. The
thorough, systematic, painstaking work required by this
study in the formative period of life exercises a whole-
some effect on the character and establishes the clear
and accurate method of thought and action which are
so essential to success in this age of high pressure work.
Besides its practical value, the pharmacy course offers
exceptional opportunities for a training of this character
owing to the large amount of laboratory work required.
METHODS AND SCOPE OP THE WORK
The subject is presented in such a manner as to
impart a thorough theoretical as well as a practical
knowledge of pharmacy. The work commences with
the simplest and gradually leads up to the most com-
plicated processes. Lectures, demonstrations and dis-
cussions precede and accompany the practical work in
the laboratory. The application of the theory to the
manufacture of preparations firmly grounds the student
in the principles of the study and gives him a compre-
hensive understanding of the subject.
Special attention is given to the little details which
are so essential to success in any professional work,
particularly in pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of all
’ preparations are required throughout the courses. A
frequent and rigid inspection of apparatus and desks
by the instructor does much to establish habits of order
and neatness. To inculcate habits of caution and
accuracy, which are , of paramount importance in
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
9
pharmacy, the student is required to fill out an order
blank for his laboratory supplies for each preparation.
The druggist in charge fills the order, countersigns it
and hands it to the instructor for verification. Mis-
takes are thereby easily located and trouble in the work
too is often cleared up. This check exercises a whole-
some restraining influence on the student and renders
careless, slip-shod work almost impossible.
Bach student works independently in the laboratory
under the supervision of the instructor. The work is
done in three or more consecutive hours on consecutive
days. Continuity of effort is of unquestioned value, as
it insures more rapid progress and better work than
brief periods with long intermissions. Many pharma-
ceutical processes require considerable time for their
completion, and success in such cases can be attained
only by uninterrupted attention. Besides the loss of
time incident to the preparation both after and before
work is reduced to a minimum.
The second year students take weekly turns in the
drug store where they dispense supplies for the labora-
tory, order goods, invoice stock, write business letters,
etc. This work familiarizes the student with the general
arrangement of stock and furnishes a training practic-
ally the same as that obtained in a retail store.
The following is a partial list of the pharmaceutical
and chemical processes and preparations with which the
student becomes familiar in his work in the laboratory:
Assaying, clarification, crystallization, eolation, carboni-
zation, comminution, calcination, dilution, decantation,
decoloration, deflagration, desiccation, dialysis, distil-
lation, elutriation, expression, extraction, emulsifica-
tion, filtration, fusion, granulation, ignition, incineration,
levigation, maceration, percolation, precipitation, scal-
ing, standardizing, sublimation, solution, separation,
IO
BULLETIN OB THE
• testing, turbidation, volumetric and gravimetric esti-
mations, polariscopic and spectroscopic estimations,
manufacture of pills, troches, lozenges, tablets, sup-
positories, plasters, ointments, cerates, powders and the
various official preparations.
The following text-books and reference works are
used in the study of Pharmacy and Materia Medica:
U. S. Pharmacopoeia, U. S. Dispensatory, National
Formulary, National Dispensatory, Casparis’ Pharmacy,
Remington’s Pharmacy, Scoville’s Art of Compounding,
Ruddimcen’s Incompatilibilities, Oldberg’s Chemistry,
Sayre’s Materia Medica and Pharmacognosy, Potter’s
Materia Medica and Therapeutics, White & Wilcox
Materia Medica and Therapeutics, Stunner’s Pharma-
ceutical Arithmetic.
The requirements of the Pharmaceutical Syllabus
are fully carried out.
ADMISSION
The department offers three programs of courses
leading to degrees, one of two years leading to the
degree of Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph. G.), one of three
years leading to the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist
(Ph. C.), and a third of four years leading to the degree-
of Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy.
Applicants for admission to the two year program
which leads to the degree of Graduate in Pharmacy
(Ph. G.) must be eighteen years (18) of age and must
pass an examination in the subjects taught in the first
year of a reputable high school. A certificate from the
principal of such a school will be accepted in place
of examination.
For admission to the three year program, which leads
to the degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.),
applicants must be eighteen years (18) of age and must
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
II
present satisfactory evidence by examination or cer-
tificate of having spent two years in a high school of
the best grade. A certificate admitting to the third year
of high school will be accepted instead of an examination.
For admission to the four year program without
examination, applicants must be graduates of fully
accredited High Schools or Preparatory Schools of
equal standing; otherwise an examination will be
necessary. A candidate failing to pass satisfactory
examinations in one or more of the subjects required
for admission may, at the discretion of the Faculty,
be admitted to the Freshman year conditioned, to
make up his deficiency "within one school year.
Advanced standing is given on presentation of accep-
table certificate or by examination.
A candidate must present a certificate or pass ex-
aminations in the following branches to receive Fresh-
man standing.
Physicae Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Physioeogy. Martin’s Hitman Body, or an equivalent
treatise.
Zooeogy. Elementary.
B oT any . Elementary.
Civie Government. The American Constitution;
Federal and State Governments.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Aegebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms, as
given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chawvenet, Newcomb,
or equivalent treatises by other authors.
12
BULLETIN OF THE
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
•preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations. A course of at least fifty
experiments in elementary chemistry actually performed
by the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
■subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book sim-
ilar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. In both chemistry
and physics the laboratory note-book must be presented.
English. Part of the examination is given for
answering questions upon the text-books and readings
required in the preparatory courses in English in the
Preparatory School of the University; the remainder
for writing an essay.
German. A two-year course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English
and easy English into German, or
Trench. A two-year course in French may be
presented instead of German under the same conditions.
Ability to translate readily, rather than an accurate
grammatical knowledge, is expected.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on the text of Caesar.
EQUIPMENT
The Equipment of the department is complete and
modern. The laboratories for pharmaceutical work and
for chemistry especially are large, roomy and well
ventilated. Each of these laboratories, and there are
five devoted to pharmacy and chemistry alone, measures
42x35 feet. They are twenty feet high and are lighted
on three sides, insuring plenty of light and abundance
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
IS
of air. The laboratories are furnished with hoods of’
good draught, drying ovens, chambers and water stills;:
the desks are provided with hot and cold water, suction,,
pressure, acetylene, electricity, gas and the necessary
reagents. There are separate laboratories for microscopy,,
botany, bacteriology, mineralogy and assaying, and
physics. The apparatus is of the most approved type.
Instruments of the latest design and appliances of’
modern manufacture are provided for the students.
Bach desk in supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus such as spectro-
scopes, polariscopes, tablet machines, specific gravity
apparatus, etc., are furnished as required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug
Store in which the student obtains practically the same-
experience that he would get in actual business. A
second year student is placed in full charge. He is
required to furnish supplies for the department, order
material, write business letters, invoice stock, etc.
Then at the end of a specified time he delivers the
store in good order to his successor.	.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physicians,
and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute a.
very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to read
them and compound those requiring special manipula-
tion. The reading room is suppled with all the leading-
pharmaceutical and chemical journals and books of
reference. The pharmacognosy room contains specimens
of all the official and a great many unofficial drugs for
study and identification.
THESIS.
During the third year the students taking the three
year program are required to spend at least two hours
14
BULLETIN OB THE
a week in original research on a subject within the
domain of Pharmacy. The results of this work are
carefully recorded and must be typewritten and pre-
sented to the faculty as a requirement for graduation.
This applies likewise to students of the four year program
in the last year of their work.
LABORATORY PELS
Pharmaceutical	Laboratory	II.,	IV.,	each...$20.00
Pharmaceutical	Laboratory	VI.,	VII.,	each.. 20.00
Chemistry V.................................... 20.00
Chemistry II., III.,	IV., VI.,	and	IX.	each... 10.00
Bacteriology................................... 10.00
Chemistry 1..................................... 5.00
Physics I... ................................... 5.00
Physics III..................................... 5.00
Geologv III..................................... 5.00
Botany II....................................... 5.00
Microscopy...................................... 1.00
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
15
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF GRAD-
UATE IN PHARMACY
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a	Course
	week			week	
Pharmacy	■8	I, II	Pharmacy	8	I, II
Chemistry	5	I	Chemistry	5	I
Microscopy	2	I	Chemistry.	2	XL
Bacteriology	5	I	Physiology	5	I
Arithmetic	3	IX	Chemistry	4	III
Physics	5	I	Physics	5	I
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	III, IV	{ Pharmacy	II	IV, V, VI a
Chemistry	4	IV	Pharmacy	2	XI
Chemistry	7	VI	Mat’ra Medica	3	VIII
Mat’ra Medica	3	VIII	Botany	5	I, II
Botany	5	I, II	Pharmacog’y	1	I
Pharmacog’y	1	X	1		
DEGREE: PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISE
first year.
Pharmacy	8	I, II	Pharmacy	8	I, II
Chemistry	5	I	Chemistry	5	I
Microscopy	2	I	Chemistry	2	
Bacteriology	5	I	Physiology	5	I
Arithmetic	3	IX	Chemistry	4	III
Physics	5	I	Physics	5	I
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	III, IV	| Pharmacy	1 11	|IV,V,VIa
Chemistry	4	IV	Pharmacy	2	XI
Chemistry	7	VI	Mat’ra Medica	3	VIII
Mat’ra Medica	3	VIII	Botany	5	I, II
Botany	5	I, II	Pharmacog’y	1	X
Pharmacog’y	1	X			
THIRD YEAR
Pharmacy	6	VI b	Pharmacy	6	VII
Chemistry	5	IX c	Chemistry	5	XIV
Geology	2	III	Urine Anal.	3	VII a
Elective	5		Toxicology	3	VII b
Thesis	2		Elective	5	
			Thesis	2	
i6
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN PHARMACY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term.	Hrs. a week	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term.	Hrs. a week	Course
Chemistry	4	II	Chemistry	4	II
English	3	I	English	3	I
Botany	5	L H	Botany	5	I, II
German	5	I	German	5	I
Microscopy	2	I	Physiology	5	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Pharmacy	8	I., II.	Pharmacy	8	I., II
' Chemistry	4	V	Chemistry	4	V
Physics	5	II, III	Physics	5	II, IIP
English	3	II	English	3	II
JUNIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8	III., IV	Pharmacy	ix	IV. V. Via.
Chemistry	5	VI	Chemistry	2	VI (c)
Bacteriology	5	I	Geology	5	I
Zoology	5	I	Pharmacy Zoology	2 5	XI 1 I
SENIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8	VI b	Pharmacy	5	VII
Pharmacog’y	2	X	Pharmacog’y	2	X
Geology	2	III	Urine Anal	2	VII a
Elective	5		Toxicology	3	VII b
Mat’ra Medica	3	VIII	Elective	5	
Thesis			Mat’ra Medica	3	VIII
			Thesis	5	
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
17
COURSES IN PHARMACY
I.
Elements oe Pharmacy—Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various pharmaceutical processes.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy—A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the
manufacture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. E. preparations.
[Live horns a week for twenty-six weeks.]
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy—Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough course in the preparation
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
'	. IV.
General Pharmacy—A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Magistral Pharmacy — Includes the manifold
methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with considera-
tion of incompatibility, posology, and the principles of
elegant pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one-term.]
VI.
(a)	Pharmaceutical Chemistry—Chiefly assaying,
testing and manufacturing. Determination of melting
18	BULLETIN OB the
and boiling points, and solubilities. Some attention is
given also, to toilet and commercial preparations with a
view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Pharmaceutical Pharmacy—Pssaying	and
manufacturing.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
VII.
General Pharmacy—Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectro-
scopic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of
manufacture.
[Vive hours a week for one term.]
• VIII.
Materia Medica—This work embraces a detailed
consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, thera-
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is
given also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin.
They are studied individually at first then in classes
or groups. The grouping is so arranged as to make the
subject comparatively easy for the student.
[Two hours a week for three terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic—This work includes
a study of weights and measures, percentage, relation-
ship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alliga-
tion and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.
Pharmacognosy—The identification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with
special reference to quality and detection of adultera-
tion. Attention is also given to the methods of prevent-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
19
ing loss by improper storage or by the ravages of insects.
Important drugs are studied under the microscope in
cross section and in powder form.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Commercial Pharmacy—A brief course in business
methods, store-management, banking, accounting, and
everything connected iwth the commercial side of
pharmacy. likewise a number of lectures on Phar-
maceutical Jurisprudence.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY.
Lectures and Laboratory Work. Lectures on the
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
pointed out. The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture
media and in studying pure cultures of certain non-
pathogenic bacteria in these media. Observations on
the microscopic characteristics of bacteria and special
attention to the microscopic technique in bacteriological
work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
practice in isolation and identification of pathogenic
germs by the various staining processes. Inoculation of
animals. Bacteriological investigation of water, air and
soil. Text-book, Abbott’s Principles of Bacteriology.
[Five hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
I.
Botany. Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the
development of the embryo and the processes of pollina-
tion and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell,
of its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and
20
BULLETIN OB THE
the various physiological phenomena; the structure,
growth, reproduction and general classification of the
Text-book, Bastin's College Botany, Barnes & Coulter.
algae, fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Botanical Laboratory. Supplementary to Course I.
Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryophta,
pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in Course I.
Drawings must be made of all plants examined. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become familiar with their morphol-
ogy, structure and classification. The course is to ac-
company or to be preceded by Course I. Provision is
also made in this course for students in pharmacy to take
a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical botany.
Study of the determination and classification of the
simpler plants. The analysis of the phanerograms
occupies the time during the spring months and the
student is made familiar with the habitat and charac-
teristics of the local flora. Text-book for classification
of plants, Kellerman’s Spring Flora.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
III.
Advanced Botany. Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same
as that laid out in Strasburger’s or Vine’s text-book of
Botany. Special study is made of the physiology,
ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and classification of
plants. Text-book, Strasburger.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany. Supplementary
to Course III., and either following or accompanying it:
(a)	Plant Histology and Physiology. Half of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
21
4
time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to plant
histology and physiology. The student is required to
study practically the method of killing, fixing, embed-
ding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of
plant tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(b)	Peant Ceassieication Advanced. The other
half of the laboratory work is devoted to the deter-
mination and -classification of the more difficult plants,
the compositae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc.
Herbarium study is required, as well as preparing and
collecting plants for preservation. During spring and
autumn frequent excursions into the neighboring fields
and woods are made for the purpose of studying and
collecting for preservation the local aquatic and land
flora. Text-book, Britton’s or Gray’s Manual.
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
Systematic Botany. Principally laboratory and her-
barium work in special groups of phanerograms and
cryptograms. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in botany. Library,
reference books and seminar work.
CHEMISTRY.
I.
(a) Generae Chemistry. A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book, Remsen’s Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
„ (&) A Laboratory Course covering in the labora-
tory the work of the Course (I. a.) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
22
bulletin OF the
II.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A complete study of the elements and their
most important compounds, following the classification
based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a discussion
of the theories of the science. Text-book, Alexander
Smith’s College Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(&) Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory course
to accompany Course II., the work consisting of the
preparation by the student of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, there
is taken up the study of the reactions involved in the
separation and detection of the more common inorganic
bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of salts,
and the complex substances, such as earths, ores, ashes,
etc. Text-books, Perkin and Thorp, supplemented with
lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
Ill*
Qualitative Analysis. A course arranged for the
students in Pharmacy, comprising a study of the com-
moner metals and acids, their reactions and separation.
Text-book, Perkin.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
IV*
Quantitative Analysis. Course suited to the needs
of the students in Pharmacy, comprising the deter-
mination of substances, both gravimetrically and vol-
umetrically. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf. o
[Fours hours a week for one term.]
* Courses III. and IV. are intended for students of two and
three year programs.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	23
V.
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Complete analysis of a number of
simple salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis
of many complex substances. Text-book, Olsen.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
(a)	Elementary Organic Chemistry. Lectures
and recitations. A systematic study of the hydro-
carbons and their derivatives, and the investigation of
'their properties. Special attention is given to the
aliphatic and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Live hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prep-
aration by the student in the laboratory of the most
important and typical organic compounds and the
investigation of their properties. Text-book, Gatter-
man’s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.	.
(a)	Urine Analysis. A course of laboratory exer-
cises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as
well as normal. Text-book, Holland.
.	[Three hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of poi-
soning. ■ A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
24
BULLETIN OE THE
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
i. Gas Analysis.
ii. Water Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and Fats.
vi.	Iron Analysis.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and sterochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. The term
is spent principally in the making of organic prepara-
tions by methods demanding psecial case, skill and
accuracy in the student.
[Six to eight hours a week for two terms.]
(c)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. This term
is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halo-gens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,
special notes and reference work.
[Bight hours a week for one term.]
a
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this
course the chemical basis and their compounds are
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
25
considered, with special reference to their importance
in pharmacy and materia medica. Text-books, Sadtlefs
and Trimble's Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
XI.
(a)	Electrochemistry. Lectures, experiments and
recitations on the principles of electrochemistry and
their application in the chemical industries, separation
of metals, the preparation of chemical elements and
electrosyn thesis of compounds. Text-books, Classen
and Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI. (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electro-
chemistry, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electro-
metallurgy. Quantitative determination of metals elec-
trolytically. Text-books, Lupke and Classen.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry. The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book.
Meyer. Reference to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(a) Physical Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
demonstrations, experiments on the subjects of gas
density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the phase rule,
thermochemistry, photochemistry, etc. Text-book, Van
Deventer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
26
BULLETIN OB THE
(5)	Experimental Physical Chemistry. Labo-
ratory work to accompany Course XIII. (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, mole-
cular weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling
point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric deter-
minations of inorganic substances. Special reference
work. [Five hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH.
I.*
Genung’s Principles op Rhetoric. A study of the
complete text. Frequent practice in simple theme work,
versification, writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Essay and Oration. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Poetry and the Poets. Texts, theory and
critical study. Practice in writing in all literary forms
and assigned readings.
* The student may elect his work in English after com-
pleting English I.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	27
III.
Fiction, (a) The Short Story, technically, historic-
ally and critically considered.
. . [Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b) The Novel, technically, historically and critically
considered.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.	-
IV.
The Drama, (a) Hennequin’s The Art of Playwriting.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of
Shakespeare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen weeks.]
(c)	Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects special attention will* be
given to current productions with a view of properly
acquainting the student with the writers of the day.
GEOLOGY.
I.
Principles of Geology. Lectures, recitations, dem-
onstrations. The study of the general features of the
earth; the material composing the accessible parts of
the earth; the arrangements of the material in rocks;
the causes of geological changes; the history of the
earth and the various forms of life that existed in the
different periods of successive geological ages. Text-
book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
28
bulletin oe the
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
METALLURGY*
I.
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Eurnace assays
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,.
Ricketts. ‘
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
MICROSCOPY
I.
Microscopy. Lectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion of light and illumination. The index
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of
lenses. Spherical and chromatic abberration. The
selection and care of a good microscope. The use of
accessories for advanced work; immersion and adjust-
able objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser,,
polarizer, micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-
micrography. Text-book, Gage.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Micro-Chemistry. Laboratory work. The prepara-
tion of micro-chemical reagents and their application
in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and
mounting tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
* Bor other courses in Metallurgy, see General Catalogue.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
29
PHYSICS
I.
(a) Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and
magnetism are presented. The course is intended to
meet the needs of those who desire a general knowledge
of the subject, as well as to lay the foundations for
advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
"Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(&)	The Laboratory Work of this course consists
•of a series of experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given
in Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to
physical phenomena. Special attention is paid to
accuracy in the mathematical work and in the state-
ments of the principles involved. Lectures and recita-
tions. Text-book, Crewe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physics. The application of mathematics in physical
30
BULLETIN OB THE
work. Measurements of length, mass and time. Work
in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and mag-
netism. The work is done in the laboratory and the
student is taught to depend on his own resources and
to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Special advanced work in
heat, light, mechanics, sound, electricity and magnetism.
Accuracy in observations and in the calculation and
recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they
are following. This course must be preceded by Courses
II. and III.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
MlECTrical Measurements. Laboratory practice
with galvanometers, voltmeters, ammeters and watt-
meters, resistance work, the relation or equivalence
between electric energy and heat, capacity and induc-
tance, insulation tests.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
Calorimetry. Accurate work in laboratory, using
methods of mixtures, bomb and other calorimeters in
measuring the calorific value of gaseous and solid fuels,
quantitative measurements of radiation and conduction
of heat as applied to pipe coverings, etc.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a)	This course comprises lectures, recitations and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
31
demonstrations based upon Thornton’s Text-book of
Human Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstra-
tions required.
(6)	Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c)	A limited number of microscopical preparations
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.
(d)	During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Three recitations and one laboratory period for two
terms.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (<7) and may select either (&) or (c).
II.
(a)	This course comprises a complete study of human
physiology such as is required of students of medicine.
The lectures, recitations and demonstrations are based
upon Kirk’s Handbook of Physiology and Hall’s Text-
book of Physiology. The student will have free access
.to a copy of the The American Text-book of Physiology
for special reference.
(6)	Laboratory work in experimental physiology.
The manual used is Hall’s Experimental Physiology,
but the student will have free access to a number of
other similar works,
[Pour recitation hours and two laboratory periods
for two terms.}

Z2
BULLETIN of the, BTC.
ZOOLOGY
I.
This course comprises:
(a)	Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Nicholson’s Text-book of Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker’s Elementary Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined
in Pratt’s Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker’s Biology.
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order
of mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch’s Ele-
mentary Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for
first term; three recitation hours and three
laboratory periods for second term.]
II.
This course comprises:
(a)	Recitations, lectures and. demonstrations based
upon Her twig’s Manual of Zoology.
(b)	Laboratory work upon some Invertebrata in
order to complete and supplement the work under
(c) in Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one of two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrata, viz.: fish,
frog, newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used
is Pratt’s Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with refer-
ence to the cat as outlined in Davison’s Mammalian
Anatomy.
(e)	An outline of comparative Embryology of ani-
mals. Text-book, Packard and Foster and Balfour.