SERIES VI. ;	-	;'-.V	/ NUMBER HL
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
P < 7P ' NOTRE DAME.; INDIANA V7 ;
:	LAV
. • ■ 7/‘	’ ■ ■ ■ '	' • - .6- .	■ • ' .	■ ■- ; .
■ :. ■ ? ; T PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME .<0 7'0
LQ-. Y -7 ■■■	- THE UNIVRR.S1TY PRESS S A. A 7 V
’<7' 0	JANUARY, 191 1 ?	.''P P ./
/ Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Danie, Indiana, as second class matter, July 17, 1905
SERIES VI.
NUMBER III.
BULLETIN
OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
LAW DEPARTMENT
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JANUARY, 1911
Entered at the Postoffice. Notre Dame, Indiana, as second class matter, July 17, 1905
LAW FACULTY.
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
president of the university.
WILLIAM HOYNES, LL. D.,
DEAN OF DAW FACUDTY.
TIMOTHY E. HOWARD, LT. D.,
PROFESSOR OF DAW.
GALLITZIN A. FARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
PROFESSOR OF DAW
JOSEPH CALLAHAN, A. B.,
PROFESSOR OF DAW
ANDREW ANDERSON,
PROFESSOR OF DAW.
ARTHUR L. HUBBARD, LL. M.,
PROFESSOR OF DAW.
REV. THOMAS CRUMLEY, 6. S. C.,
PROFESSOR OF DOGIC AND ETHICS.
REV. CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, C. S. C.,
PROFESSOR OF ENGDISH.
Law Department of the University
of Notre Dame*
The University of Notre Dame has earned a prom-
inent place among the leading educational institutions
of the country. It was incorporated in 1844, under
the laws of Indiana. Its charter empowers it to teach
all preparatory, collegiate and univeristy branches,
and confer the degrees and honors appropriate to
evidence their satisfactory completion. These degrees
represent as high a standard of educational equip-
ment as those of any other American university.
The regular attendance of students numbers
approximately 1,000. They are distributed among
the several halls of the University, as St. Bdward’s,
St. Joseph’s, Carroll, Brownson, Corby, Sorin, Walsh,
Dujarie and Holy Cross. By this arrangement is
has been found practicable to receive and instruct
students of all ages varying from early boyhood to
thirty-five or forty years. The attendance is com-
posed exclusively of males. Though conducted under
Catholic auspices, yet there is no restriction upon
the attendance of non-Catholics. These comprise at
times a tenth or more of the student body. But the
same general rules of discipline regarding respectful
attention and proper deportment at religious services
are applicable alike to all.
THB GROUNDS
immediately tributary to the University comprise
more than 900 acres. They adjoin the corporate
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
limits of South. Bend on the north, and extend almost
to the Michigan boundary. South Bend is a well-
known and flourishing city. Its population is about
60,000. It is the seat of St. Joseph county, 87 miles
from Chicago, and accessible by rail from all parts
of the United States. The city of Niles, on the north
is only 10 miles distant, and a trolley line from it passes
through the University grounds. In addition to the
extensive area of land belonging to the University
in its immediate vicinity, it owns and conducts in
the neighboring township to the east a large farm,
embracing in meadow, groves and cultivated fields,
nearly 2,000 acres. From it come quite largely the
milk, vegetables and other food supplies required
for the students, thus insuring freshness and whole-
someness in their meat and drink.
The grounds at Notre Dame are famous for their
beauty and attractiveness. The lakes, groves and
river; the meadows and cultivated fields; the orchards
and flower bedecked parks and gardens, combine to
spread out before the appreciative vision a prospect
singularly picturesque, beautiful and charming.
THE UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
The main and ancillary buildings of the University,
including the various halls, telephone and express
offices, a store and post-office, are about thirty in
number. They are generally of large size, and con-
form to the most approved architectural designs and
sanitary requirements. Due measurably to this fact,
as may be presumed, the healthfulness of Notre Dame
can justly be considered exceptional. But compar-
atively few of its inmates are compelled even in the
most unwholesome weather to suspend work and have
their names entered on the sick list. For such, however,
LAW DEPARTMENT
5'
there is an infirmary on the premises, and medical
services there are available, together with the de-
voted care of experienced and highly qualified sisters,
thoroughly trained as nurses.
The University is situated about two miles north
of the business center of South Bend, and a mile from
its nearest suburb. A trolley line, however, runs
directly from the heart of the city to Notre Dame.
Cars run each way every 15 minutes. Thus the at-
tendance of town students at the college is greatly
facilitated. Yet it is advisable when practicable for
young men to board, lodge and live at the University.
They save time by doing so and escape the distractions
incident to city life. In living at the college, too,
they more readily conform to
THE RULES OR DISCIPLINE.
in force at Notre Dame—rules deemed essential to
best results in educational work and the formation
of a sturdy and manly character. These rules con-
template not only close attention to school duties
during the year, but also immunity from the distractions
and temptations, amusements and social claims of
city life. The regular period of the school year is
too valuable to be lost to any marked extent by attention
to such trifles.
The University has long been noted for thorough-
ness in work and effectiveness in discipline, as tending
to the utilization of time and the fixing of habits of
diligence and punctuality. A sense of duty is involved
in the maintenance of this reputation. Students are
expected to be regular in attendance at class and
diligent and prompt in discharging theo duties devolving
upon them. They are expected to take a practical view
of educational work and to bear in mind that the few
6
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
years devoted to it are to direct and influence all the
subsequent years of their lives.
All students matriculated at Notre Dame, no
matter for what course, stand primarily on the same
footing. The halls to which they are assigned indicate
in a general way tbeir respective ages and educational
standing, although the records of entry in the books
of the University are the source of original and con-
trolling evidence in the matter. They reside during
the academic year in comfortable quarters within the
precincts of the University; share together food of the
same kind in the refectories; have the same service
at meals and in the use of light and heat, as well as
in washing and mending; some sleep in dormitories
and others in private rooms, according to their stand-
ing in scholarship and preliminary arrangements;
study in common, each at his own desk, whether in the
large study halls or private rooms, and meet for class-
work in their respective recitation rooms, as called
regularly by the signal bells. In short, they dwell
together, meeting for recitation in class, for their
meals in the refectories, and for necessary recreation
and healthful exercise in the great gymnasium or on
the campus. Brought thus daily into close companion-
ship, they become in time virtually the same as members
of one great family, and a feeling of deep, unselfish
and life-abiding friendship is often awakened among
kindred spirits.
Everything needed can be had at the University,
and seldom does occasion arise to visit the neighboring
town. Visits to it are not favored. This is not alone
in the interest of economy and for the avoidance of
habits of extravagance and improvidence, but also
to guard against loss of time and possible exposure
to temptation. It is sought under the rules of discipline
LAW DEPARTMENT
7
at Notre Dame to prohibit or avoid things manifestly
tending to undermine or make against the growth of
moral worth and manly character. It is almost super-
fluous to state consequently that drunkenness or
immorality is considered ground for expulsion and
that the use of intoxicating liquors is strictly prohibited.
The style of living at Notre Dame is simple and
unostentatious. It is favorable to the formation of
habits of thrift and frugality. Distinctions between
the rich and the poor are discountenanced. No line of
demarcation between them is ever knowingly permitted
to be drawn. The highest standard of excellence is
measured by scholarship and honorable deportment.
Those crowned with the brightest laurels of the Uni-
versity are those who worthily attain to that laudable
standard, whether they be rich or poor.
This preliminary sketch may be deemed pertinent,
if not indespensable, before undertaking to deal specific-
ally . with the
UAW DEPARTMENT,
for its students are inmates of the University, authorized
to attend any of the collegiate or other classes, subject
to the rules of discipline prescribed for collegiate
students and entitled to equal rights and privileges.
In 1869 the law course was established in a modest
way as a separate curriculum during the presidency
of the late Very Rev. William Corby, C. S. C. It was
reorganized 1883 by the late Rev. Thomas E. Walsh,
C. S. C., who was then president of the University.
The present Dean was called from Chicago, where he
was actively engaged in the practice of law, and placed
in charge of it. The need of making another start or
beginning the work anew soon became manifest. Atten-
tion was first given to securing text-books and reports
8
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
sufficient to form the nucleus of a new library. In the
following year began a gradual but steady increase in
the number of students. Substantial improvements
were made from time to time and new books added to
the library, as circumstances seemed to warrant. Never-
theless, nothing was done in the way of exploitation,
and for several years the course was not even advertised,
for it was feared that in range of study and equipment
it might seem presumptuous to invite comparison with
the older and larger institutions. It is well known
that these are advertised mainly through the expressed
good will and personal recommendations of their
students and graduates, but Notre Dame lacked this
advantage on account of the comparative paucity of
such heralds and representatives. As time passed,
however, these went forth in yearly increasing number
and proved to be zealous missionaries in their praise
of the work done in the law course. They found ad-
ditional assurance of its thoroughness in the almost
uniform success that attended them in examinations
for admission to the bar in the various states in which
they resided or to which they went for the purpose of
establishing new domiciles. They observed with even
greater confidence in their work of preparation that
graduates of some of the most noted law schools failed
in the same examinations. They were not unfrequently
complimented by judges and members of the examin-
ing boards upon the accuracy and resourcefulness of
their legal knowledge. The publicity of such facts,
though slowly spreading, has served to attract here
for the study of law a steadily increasing number of
industrious and capable young men.
Under the influence largely of the American Bar
Association, the period now commonly prescribed for
the study of law is three years. This reform was greatly
LAW DKPARTMKNT	9
needed, and it is gratifying that the response to the
•call for it has been so prompt and so general. It means
the elimination from the profession of persons unfitted
to follow or engage in its practice. It means a higher
standard of professional honor and efficiency. Notre
Dame has sought to keep steady pace with the progress'
made in this direction. Its aims to do its full share to
elevate to the highest plane practicable the study and
practice of the law. Considerations of public good and
safety so demand, and it endeavors not to be second
to any other institution in meeting the most exacting
test of this salutary requirement. That its work in
this respect has been followed by fruition is shown not
-only by the records of its students in examinations,
but also by the fact that many of them immediately
afterward enter successfully on the practice of the
profession, without previous probation or training in
the offices of other lawyers. It is also noticeable that
they adhere to and follow the practice of the profession
in larger proportion than the graduates of other
institutions.
QUALIFICATIONS FOR ADMISSION
In some law schools the requirements for matric-
ulation are of an order so high as to be prohibitory
upon the great mass of young men. Students are not
received as candidates for diplomas unless previously
graduated by certain colleges of accredited standing.
They must have received degrees evidencing the com-
pletion of some of the collegiate courses.
Were this rule in general effect, all but a favored
few would be shut out of the legal profession. The
institutions in which it obtains may judge for them-
selves as to its operation. It may be assumed, however,
that it has proved satisfactory to them, for otherwise
IO	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
it would probably have been modified or discontinued.
In point of fact, however, it is hardly open to
question that a student whose mind has been trained
and disciplined by years of study in a college is better
qualified to undertake the study of law, perceive its
relation to human affairs, fathom its mysteries and
solve its problems, than one who has not had that
advantage. And yet a fair education and hard work,
together with a bright mind, or natural endowments
above the average, may enable the latter to do as well
in the battle of life as his more favored brother, if not
actually to outstrip him. The instances that might be
cited in proof of this fact are so numerous as to leave
the question no longer debatable. Facing the situation
from this point of view, not to mention a sense of
duty in the matter, Notre Dame favors for its own
guidance a rule more liberal than that which excludes
all but college graduates from the study of law. It is
not disposed to shut its doors against honest worth and
promising manhood, even though the general education
of the applicant brings him only to the threshold of
the collegiate courses. There are many capable and
even gifted young men whose duties have been so
onerous and means so circumscribed, that they could
not devote the time nor make the outlay requisite for
acquiring a collegiate education. Nevertheless, some
of them are well educated along particular lines. They
acquired necessarily a fair education in the line of their
work or incidentally to it. This is true of those working
in printing offices, commercial houses, trade establish-
ments and offices of insurance, real estate and law
firms, as well as of those who burned the midnight oil
in study. It seems to be only fair and in consonance
with a just sense of duty to allow credit for learning
thus acquired, and especially so when it appears to be
LAW DEPARTMENT
II
equal in accuracy and range to that acquired in the
corresponding branches of an academic course. Such
persons ought to be able to finish in a comparatively
short time at Notre Dame studies of the preparatory
or high school grade in which they may be deficient.
They could then enter upon the study of law with
bright prospects and reasonable assurance of attaining
to creditable rank in professional standing.
It becomes pertinent here to indicate more spec-
ifically the standard of qualifications or the matricula-
tion of law students at Notre Dame. It is graduation
from any reputable high school or completion of the
preparatory course at this place. This gives collegiate
standing to the student. He is a freshman, so to speak,
or entitled to rank as a first year’s student in collegiate
work. No persons of lower grade can be received as
regular law students and candidates for degrees.
Students from other law schools are received at
any time and allowed due credit for the work previously
done. They must, however, attend class for at least
one year in order to be entitled to the privileges and
honors of graduation.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice
of the profession or have only been licensed to practice,
as the case may be, are admitted to/the senior class and
entitled to the degrees appropriate to their work and
standing at graduation in the following June.
Special students are those who wish to receive
instruction in the science of the law generally or in some
of its branches without becoming candidates for degrees.
No particular entry requirement is prescribed for them,
aside form securing the consent of the Director of
Studies and being of sufficient age and capacity to
understand and profit by instruction in the law. The
regular students who enter the law course as candidates
12
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
for degrees must be at least 18 years of age, but this
rule is not necessarily applicable to those who pursue
special studies. As an education can hardly be called
•complete without at least elementary knowledge of the
law, the number of special students ought steadily to
increase
A knowledge of the law is the bulwark of liberty.
All the relations of life are within the sphere of its power
to destroy, modify or protect. It points out the safe
path to follow in all human affairs. It warns men of
.and saves them from possibly great losses in the contracts
incident to their business. It admonishes them of and
guards against possibly heavy damages arising from
torts or negligence in the management of property or
their personal conduct toward others. It accompanies
a,nd protects them in their travels on land and sea.
Night and day it is over and around their homes and
possessions, assuring them of safety in their absolute
rights of life, liberty and property. Moreover, no other
branch of study compares with it in disciplining the
mind, directing the currents of thought, intensifying the
power of analysis and discrimination, and keeping the
judgment in all the affairs of life within the boundaries
of the practical—or what may be called common sense,
which is the foundation of the law.
TUB COURSB OB STUDY .
■at Notre Dame covers a period of three academic years.
The academic year begins for all the courses early in
September, and closes approximately about the 20th of
June. There is no break in the regular order of
work throughout the school year, except during the
Christmas holidays, when a vacation of two weeks
are allowed, in order that all who wish may visit their
homes.
LAW DEPARTMENT
13-
Students are required to be regular and prompt in
class attendance. Absence is not excused unless in.
case of sickness or the intervention of imperative and
unavoidable duties. If continued for an unreasonable
time is deprives the students of credit in the year for
the time lost and entails forfeiture of the right to gradu-
ation, unless the lapse be satisfactorily repaired by •
subsequent study.
Lack of regularity or remissness in the discharge
of duty is an intolerable evil, disturbing to earnest
and industrious classmates and undoubtedly harmful to
the delinquent himself, in that it prevents him from
forming a clear and accurate conception in unbroken
continuity of his prescribed work. Breaks and intervals
in his knowledge of the law make as evidently against
his thoroughness and proficiency as broken cogs make
against the appearance and efficacy of wheels in machin-
ery. Strictness in the matter rests not alone upon a.
conscientious sense of duty to the young men themselves,
their parents, the legal profession and the public, but
also to the University, so that its well-earned reputation
for thoroughness and efficiency in educational work may
not be impared or jeopardized.
There are three regular classes in the law course,,
distinguished respectively by their years of study, as
Birst or Elementary, Second or Junior and Third or
Senior. Bor example, after a year’s work in the Birst
Class its members are promoted to the Second; another
year of study in this, and they are advanced to the
Third, thus becoming Seniors. In the following June,
or at the end of the third academic year, they are
graduated, receiving the degree of LL. B. Realizing,
however, that it is a life study, some of the graduates
so arrange their affairs as to make it practicable to
14	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
continue the work for another or fourth year. In such
case they enter and become members of the Graduate
Class, and receive a year later the degree of
LL. M *
Young men find it greatly to their advantage,
circumstances permitting, to study law for the full
four years at a university, where they are in an atmos-
phere stimulating and favorable to work; where whole-
some emulation incites them to call into exercise their
dormant energies and hidden powers; where .they enter
into the spirit not only of the law, but also of the dif-
ferent academic courses, acquiring a helpful knowledge
of educational work in its broadest lines.
Moreover, the day for studying law in an office or
in private has passed. It seems now to be practically
out of the question to acquire a connected or systematic
knowledge of this great science in that obsolescent way.
It must be remembered that in many states it is far
more difficult to pass successfully an examination for
admission to the bar now than it was when the old
system prevailed. Indeed, one ought to acquire a more
general, accurate and systematic knowledge of the law
in three or four years in a properly equipped and well
conducted law school than in twice that time under
the old methods.
Special exercises are announced from time to time,
as in the actual preparation of pleadings, the examina-
tion of abstracts of title, the writing of deeds and
leases, the making of wills and other instruments and
the dispatch of such business as is customarily trans-
acted in a well regulated law office.
* The degree of Doctor of Law (J. D.) or Doctor of Civil
Law (D. C. L.) presupposes the degree of Bachelor of Laws
and a Bachelor’s degree in Arts or Science.
LAW DBPARTMBNT	15
The subjects of study are covered by text-books,
lectures and illustrative cases, quizzes, as well as by
theses and moot-court work.
THE COURSES IN LAW
FIRST Y$AR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Elements of Law. Sixteen weeks.
Real Property. Sixteen weeks.
Personal Property. Four weeks.
Torts. Ten weeks.
Contracts. Sixteen weeks.
Criminal Law. Ten weeks.
Persons and Domestic Relations. Ten weeks.
Sales. Eight weeks.
Agency. Ten weeks.
Partnership. Eight weeks.
English I. Thirty-six weeks, three times a week.
Parliamentary Law and Debating weekly.
SECOND YKAR.
(Each subject five hours a week until finished.)
Criminal Procedure. Ten weeks.
Damages. Twelve weeks.
Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy. Fourteen weeks.
Suretyship and Guaranty. Fourteen weeks.
Bills and Notes. Sixteen weeks.
Interpretation of Laws. Six weeks.
Insurance. Twelve weeks'.
Bailments and Carriers. Ten weeks.
Wills, Executors and Administrators. Fourteen weeks.
Medical Jurisprudence. Lectures.
Moot Court. Practice weekly.
Logic. Twenty-two weeks, four hours a week.
Ethics. Fourteen weeks, four hours a week.
16	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
THIRD YEAR.
(Each, subject five hours a week until finished.)
Evidence, Civil and Criminal. Twelve weeks.
Constitutional Law. Twelve weeks.
Equity Jurisprudence. Twelve weeks.
Corporations, Private. Sixteen weeks.
Corporations, Public. Ten weeks.
International Law. Ten weeks.
Code Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Common Law Pleadings-. Twelve weeks.
Equity Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Moot Court. Practice weekly.
Graduate Courses cover the entire field by way
of review, together with Moot Court practice, office
work, etc. The optional studies include Roman law,
Admiralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright,.
Patents, Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc..
LAW DEPARTMENT
17
SCHEDULE OE CLASSES
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS	WEEKS	PERIODS A WEEK
Elements of Law, Real and Personal Property	36	5
Torts, Contracts, Criminal Law	36	5
Sales, Agency, Persons, Partnership	36	5
English, I.	36	3
Parliamentary Law and Debating	36	1
SECOND YEAR SUBJECTS	WEEKS	PERIODS A WEEK
Criminal Procedure, Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy, Damages	36	5
Suretyship and Guaranty, Bills and Notes, Interpretation of Laws	36	, 5
Insurance, Bailments and Carriers, Wills, Executors and Admidistrators	36	5
Logic	22	4
Ethics,	14	4
MediCal Jurisprudence, Moot Court	36	1
THIRD YEAR
SUBJECTS
WEEKS
PERIODS
A WEEK
Corporations, Public and Private, International Law	36	5
Evidence, Constitutional Laws, Equity Jurisprudence	36	5
Common Law Pleadings, Equity Plead- ings, Code Pleadings	36	5
Moot Court	36	1
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
18
DESCRIPTION OF COURSES
elements oe law
A brief survey of the various subjects of the law as
found, in such text-books as, Browne’s Kent’s Commentaries,
Robinson’s Elements of American Jurisprudence, Blicken-
derfer’s Blackstone’s Commentaries (Abridged).
property real and personal
This subject of exceptional interest is at the basis of our
social fabric and civilization. It has the sanction of existing
laws, and upon it rests the superstructure of governments
and nations. In treating it the origin of property is dwelt upon
and made clear by many illustrations. Personality is viewed
with reference to the matter of acquisition, rights of posses-
sion, mobility and rules of transfer, while realty is viewed
in the aspects of its estates and feudal tenures, uses and trusts,
statute of limitations, emblements, fixtures, powers, covenants,
easements, deeds, mortgages, releases, statutory rules and the
rights respectively of landlord and tenant.
Text-books: Warvelle, Childs, Hopkins, Boone, Washburn,
Williams, Tiedeman, Schouler, Smith, Darlington.
CRIMINAL LAW OR PUBLIC WRONGS
This is usually the first law that men are compelled for
their common protection to formulate and execute in the
organization of society and formation of state. The degenerate
or vicious element is opposed to law and prone to attack the
person and seize the property of him who has been industrious
and provident. This condition precedes all positive law and
is subsequently manifest in open opposition or schemes to
•evade its enforcement. In the system of study at Notre Dame
the distinction between the common and the statutory law
of crime is pointed out, as in the case of mala in se and mala
prohibita. The growth of the criminal law for the protection
of the individual and his property and the security and pro-
motion of the common welfare is shown with due reference to
■existing conditions and tendencies. Instruction on this subject
includes the elements of crime, intention and will maliciously
directed, murder and manslaughter, arson and burglary, robbery
•and larceny, treason and offences against the government.
Text-books: Clark, Bishop, Heard, May, Washburn
Ewell, Wharton, Stephen, Clark & Marshall.
LAW DEPARTMENT
19
UW OF CONTRACTS.
This is a fundamental and most important branch of
the law. It comprises all transactions involving agreement,
whether express or implied, in the commercial world or the
affairs of daily life. In short, it is the basis of well-nigh all
branches of the law not included in the range of torts and
crimes. For example, all transactions in real estate, whether
by sale, lease or gift, are necessarily founded upon contract.
And so in respect to negotiations affecting personal property,
whether by sale or bailment, and whether comprising a ship
at sea, the merchandise on board, a drove of cattle, the pro-
ducts of the harvest or a spool of thread. So, too, regarding
bills of exchange and promissory notes, suretyship and guaranty,
bonds and mortgages, principal and agent, partnership and
corporations, policies of insurance and powers of attorney,
arbitration and award, the employment of skilled workers
and common laborers—indeed, every relation of life involv-
ing agreement, as where the minds of persons under no legal
disability meet with contractual purpose upon any lawful
subject actually or potentially in being, and of sufficient moment
not to fall as a consideration below the dignity and scope of
the law. This is studied with exceptional thoroughness at
Notre Dame. Among its chief subdivisions are offer and ac-
ceptance, agreement and obligation, the essential elements
ceptance, agreement and obligation, the essential elements
of contract, statute of frauds, quasi contract, illegality and
public policy, moral obligation and reality of consent, mis-
representation and mistake, dependent and independent
promises, impossibility of performance, conflict of laws, con-
struction and waiver, conditions and warranties, assignment
and discharge.
Text-books: Clark, Hammon, Lawson, Bishop, Beach,
Anson, Benjamin.
TORTS OR PRIVATE WRONGS
A subject of exceptional interest and related in funda-
mental importance to contracts, but differing in being outside
the pale of agreement and within the scope of obligation aris-
ing from injury or damages caused to others by negligent or
wrongful acts, independent of the will. The treatment of the
subject includes a full outline of the substantive and adjective
20
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME
laws governing it, the line to be drawn in distinguishing torts
from contracts and crimes, persons liable for torts, negligence
and nuisance, libel and slander, wrongs affecting the family
relations, wrongs affecting possession and property, remedies
and damages. The law of torts differs from that of contracts
in fixing its obligations independently of the will of the parties
concerned. In contracts mind must meet mind in every essen-
tial particular touching time, place, subject-matter, considera-
tion and legality. When the offer involving these elements is
unequivocally and unqualifiedly accepted the contract is
created and becomes a living force, binding upon both parties,
and no longer changeable at the will of either. This obligation
arises from the contract, and should either party fail to perform
or fall short in performance it gives the other a right of action
for the breach or deficiency! In tort, on the other hand, the
parties may be entire strangers to each other and have no
thought of entering into relations productive of liability. A
person may by a negligent act incautiously injure an entire
stranger, and an obligation at once arises and binds him as
firmly as by contract to the injured man to make amends in
damages for the wrong done. Again, a person may by a neg-
ligent and wronged oversight, as where he furnishes to a cus-
tomer a defective vehicle that breaks down and causes injury,
create an obligation binding upon him to make amends by the
payment of damages for the injury thus caused. A railroad
company may suffer its track to become defective or its em-
ployes careless in the performance of their duties, and a train
may thus be derailed or a collision take place, injuring many
passengers. In such case a like obligation would at once arise
in law and bind it to make payment to them for the injuries
thus sustained. Defective machinery or instrumentalities
furnished by an employer for the use of his workmen in the
industrial domain would charge him with liability for injuries
caused by the defectiveness. In view of such illustrations, it
will appear clear that, as a rule, a tortious act is independent
of the will, although its commission is attended with an obliga-
tion in law to make amends by the payment of damages for
the wrong done. Moreover, the parties to a contract must be
of legal age, but as the will is not an element of torts, infants,
insane and intoxicated persons may become guilty of and
responsible for it. In many cases, indeed, the will may be
directly opposed to the commission of the tortious act, but where
LAW DEPARTMENT
21
carelessness or want of reasonable foresight nevertheless leads
to it the obligation at once arises and binds the tortfeasor
to make good the consequent loss. If the will were to enter
into or inspire the wrongful act, it would change its character
under ordinary circumstances, making it a crime, instead of
a tort. In short, add the will to the wrongful act, and it becomes
a crime; separate it from the crime, and a tort remains. This
important subject is developed in all its bearings in the law
•courses at Notre Dame.
Text-book: Hale, Jaggars, Cooley, Hilliard, Addison,
Bishop.
PERSONS AND DOMESTIC RELATIONS.
This branch of the law refers to natural persons and their
varied relations with one another and the state, although it
deals more specifically with the property and interests and
mutual rights and duties of husband and wife, parent and
child, guardian and ward, master and servant. Natural
persons and their relations to one another constitute primarily
the foundation upon which rests the whole structure of the
law. The better we know them through study and obser-
vation, the more clearly we perceive the needs incident to
their progress and development and the more intelligently
we prescribe the laws requisite for their protection—for the
protection of life, personal liberty and private property. They
preceded in their origin all positive laws and even the simplest
form of government. Later they established society and formed
the state. They enacted laws answering to the requirements
•of changing conditions in the line of their activities. They
devised methods of co-operation, and with lapse of time created
artificial persons or corporations. The impulses and motives
that actuated and led them to pursue the course they followed
•are still in unabated force and effect, being essential to pro-
gress and development. In view of these facts, it is sought
.at Notre Dame to study the subject of natural persons as
in their domestic relations before or at least contemporaneously
with their acts. These acts, whether in making and preserv-
ing the law or in violation of it, come within the sphere of
the students’ work at as early a date as practicable.
Text-books: Tiffany, Schouler, Reeves, Rodgers.
- ■ AGENCY
In the widening-areas of commerce and increase of wealth
22
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
«
throughout the world the law of agency has grown apace.
In a broad sense the relation exists where one person authorizes
another to act for him or in his stead. It involves the general
principle Qui facit per alium facit per se—He who acts through
another acts himself. In dealing with the subject it is necessary
to study the means of creating the relation of principal and
agent, distinction between agent and servant, creation of the
agency by appointment, ratification, estoppel or necessity,
delegation of authority to subagents, liability of principal for
acts of agent, personal liability of agent for his acts, powers
and liabilities of public agents, mutual duties and liabilities
of principal and agent to each other, and termination of the
relation.
Text-books: Tiffany, Reinhard, Mechem, Evans, Story,
Wharton.
SALES
This important subdivision of the law of contracts is treated
briefly under that head, but on account of the enormous increase
of trade and commerce throughout the world during the last
century it has outgrown the modest compass of its former
presentation, and several text-books are now devoted specially
to it. In studying it the elements of contract must be considered
primarily, and likewise the statute of frauds. The distinction
between sale and barter or exchange is explained, likewise
" the need of acceptance as well as delivery in the transfer of
things sold, the sale of the chattels specific and not specific,
the nature of and distinction between conditions and war-
ranties, stoppage in transitu, rights of unpaid sellers against
goods sold and transferred, effect of illegality, payment and
performance of contract, and the like.
Text-books: Tiedeman, Benjamin, Tiffany, Burdick.
PARTNERSHIP
Or the association of two or more persons for carrying
on a business and dividing the profits between them. It is
a very close 'and confidential relation, each member becoming
the agent of the other within the usual or apparent scope of
the business. The study of the subject comprises the several
kinds of partnership, including joint stock companies, articles
of agreement, essential elements of the relation, express and
implied rights and liabilities, actions or suits between partners,
LAW DEPARTMENT
23
as well as between them and third persons, liabilities and
grounds of dissolution
Text-books: Mechem, Bates, George, Shumaker, Lindley,,
Parsons, Pollock.
EORENSIC MEDICINE OR MEDICAL JURISPRUDENCE AND TOXICOLOGY
This is a very interesting and instructive study. It deals
with the phenomena and signs of death, post-mortem examina-
tions, personal identity, causes producing violent death, exam-
ination of blood stains, death from asphyxia, electricity, heat,
cold, starvation, etc., feigned diseases, infanticide, idiocy,
insanity, dementia, mania, paresis, poisons, mineral acids,
vegetable and animal irritants, cerebral neurotics, malpractice
and medical subjects generally in their relation to crime.
Text-books: Ewell, Reese, Dean, Beck, Taylor.
* CRIMINAL PROCEDURE
This is the adjective branch of the criminal law and concerns
itself with the penalties and remedies for its breach and the
procedure for their enforcement, as conducted in court and
carried into effect by the sheriff. It deals with the arrest of
accused persons, preliminary examination, commitment or
bail, office of grand jury, the indictment and pleadings, motions
and evidence, trial and verdict, final proceedings and habeas
corpus.
Text-books: Clark, Bishop, Heard.
damages ■
As litigation is conducted primarily in common law courts
with .a view to the recovery of damages, the subject is related
to that of pleadings. The ultimate aim from the service
of the summons to the levy of the writ of execution is to secure
redress for the wrong alleged. Some reasonable rule is necessarily
sought as a means of estimating or measuring the damages to
be awarded. But little difficulty is encountered where a note,
debt or claim for a specific amount is involved, for here a case
of liquidated damages, so to speak, is presented, and full com-
pensation is readily decided upon as the proper remedy. Other-
wise, however, where the damages are unliquidated, leaving
the measure or true amount to be ascertained by a careful
examination and analysis of the evidence. Among the chief
subdivisions for study are: the theory and nature of damages,
definition and classification, lawful and unlawful conduct,
24
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
nominal and compensatory damages, exemplary or punitive
damages, commercial paper and interest, province of court
and jury, damages for nondelivery, nonacceptance or conver-
sion of goods, nonpayment and breach, of warranty, refusal
of carriers to transport goods, injury in transit, loss or delay,
consequential damages, injuries to passengers, failure to carry
to destination, actions for damages against telegraph companies,
ordinary and cipher messages, breach of marriage promise,
damages for death by wrongful act, damages for wrongs affect-
ing real property, including waste and nuisance.
Text-books: Hale, Sedgwick, Sutherland, Willis.
federal procedure and bankruptcy.
A study of courts, both of law and equity, is aidful to the
acquisition of a practical knowledge of the more difficult subject
of pleadings. Places lawfully established for the administration
of justice, they are the temples of law, and those licensed to
serve in them should do so with the r'everence and a solemn
sense of responsibility. While thorough instruction is given in
respect to the courts and methods of trial in Great Britian and
on the continent of Europe, yet our own judicial system, both
State and Federal, is even more specifically described and
explained, and no doubt or obscurity regarding it is permitted
to linger in the mind. It is shown how the courts are divided
into many branches, with distinctive names, when the volume
of legal business is great and so demands, as in the larger cities,
while a single court under one name may dispatch as many kinds
of business where the volume is smaller and the jurisdictional
area less populous. The State trial courts and the courts of
review or supreme courts and their functions are fully described,
while the Federal Supreme Court and subordinate tribunals,
as circuit courts of appeal, circuit courts, district courts and
even commissioners’ courts, receive becoming attention and
explanation. The procedure on appeal or writ of error to the
Supreme Court, State and Federal, is likewise fully elucidated^
Text-books: Hughes, Desty, Ewbank, Shinn, Ship man,
Forms of Pleadings, Brief Making, and the like.
BILLS AND NOTES, WITH SURETYSHIP AND GUARANTY
The term commerical paper is often used synonymously
with the subject stated. It includes suretyship and guarantv
LAW DBPARTMLNT
25
in so many of its phases that the order of study indicated has
been found satisfactory. Commercial paper enters so largely
into business transactions throughout the world that a correct
knowledge of it is indispensable. While great diversity exists
in the laws bearing upon it, yet a movement looking to its
codification was inaugurated in 1895, the American Bar Asso-
ciation taking the initiative in suggesting it. The British Bills
of Exchange Act of 1882 served as model. Prompt action was
taken in the matter and in 1897 as many as 15 States and the
District of Columbia had agreed to the draft submitted to
them. Their agreement resulted in the Negotiable Instru-
ments Law, which has been adopted by most of the States.
While in no respect radical, yet it reduces to clear terms and
pithy paragraphs the principles of the law merchant. In States
that have not yet adopted it the general law on the subject
must be studied. The subdivisions of bills, notes and checks
include in brief: Indorsements—blanks, full, qualified, con-
ditional and restrictive; persons signing—drawer, maker,
surety, and guarantor; contractual liabilities—drawer, drawee,
acceptor and indorsers; acceptor’s estoppels—can not deny
existence of signature of drawer, capacity to draw and sufficiency
of funds on hand to pay; indorser’s estoppels—can not deny
genuineness or validity of paper, good title or capacity of prior
parties; conditions of liability of drawer and indorser—due
presentment for acceptance, demand of payment, protest and
notice of dishonor, but these steps excused by overruling
•circumstances, no funds in drawee’s hands, or waiver of protest
and notice; to constitute a bona fide holder—good faith, in
hand before maturity, valuable consideration, taken in usual
course of business and without notice of defects; defenses
—incapacity of parties, illegal consideration and want of
consent; certification of check makes bank principal debtor,
discharges drawer and gives it the credit of cash. Suretyship
signifies the obligation assumed by one who binds himself
primarily with the principal for the performance of the under-
taking or payment of the debt into which the principal enters,
while a guaranty is an undertaking by a person that if the
one primarily liable to perform a specific obligation fail to do
so he will himself be answerable for the default.
Text-books: Ogden, Norton, Tiedeman, Randolph, Daniel,
Chalmers, McMaster, Pingrey, Brandt, Childs.
26	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
BAILMENTS AND CARRIERS
This is a very practical branch of the law and necessarily
in constant application throughout the country. Our law of
bailments comes from that great world source of legal wisdom,,
the Civil or Roman law. The several kinds of bailments, exclud-
ing the mutuum, are as accurately and clearly classified in
the Institutes of Justinian as in Coggs v. Bernard, 2 Ld. Raym.
909, or any of the recently published text-books. Indeed, we
still use the Roman terms in designating them, as depositum,.
mandatum, commodatum, pignus and locatio. Whenever a
person commits the care of or loans an article of property to
another, or intrusts its use to him for hire or with a view to>
having it carried to some other plcae, a bailment is created,,
such person becoming a bailor and the recipient a bailee. Carriers
comprise all who make a business of carrying goods and pas-
sengers for hire, whether they be railroad or steamboat com-
panies, the owners of ships or city trucks, draymen or stage
coach proprietors. They are liable as insurers of the goods,
delivered to them for transportation; and the same is true
regarding the responsibility of innkeepers for the goods and
effects of guests intrusted to their care as bailees. A few of
the chief subdivisions are delivery and acceptance, distinction
between bailment and sale, subjects of bailment, liability of
bailee under special contract, degree of care necessary, denial
of bailor’s title estopped, a sale if ownership change to bailee,,
what may be pledged, interest of pledge assignable and subject
to judicial sale, payment and redelivery, the hiring of service
or chattels, rights and liabilities of warehousemen, forwarding
merchants, wharfingers, safe deposit companies, agisters, factors,,
innkeepers and carriers.
Text-books: Hale, Hutchinson, Edwards, Story, Schouler^
Van Zile.
INSURANCE---EIRE, LlEE, ACCIDENT, MARINE
The origin of insurance is involved in obscurity, although
the prinicple as applied to individual or private risks was.
evidently known in ancient times. At any rate it existed as
a definite system as applied to shipping or maritime risks
during the Middle Ages. Fire and life insurance came very
slowly into use, and not earlier than the last century did it
take definite shape under sanction of the law\ Since then insur-
ance companies of many kinds have been organized, and a

LAW DEPARTMENT	27
person may now insure against loss or injury by accident,,
dishonesty or negligence on the part of employes or others,,
nonpayment of rents or debts, bankruptcy or insolvency of
debtors, failure of title in the purchase ot land or chattels,,
damage to or death of live stock, destruction wrought by the
elements in extraordinary storms, etc. It has usually been a.
lucrative business, and hence the steady increase in number
of companies and subjects of risk. The chief subdivisions
for study are representations, warranties, concealment, pre-
mium, formation of contract, policies of various kinds, subject-
matter and insurable interest, double and reinsurance, agency,,
waiver and estoppel, assignment and change of interest or
title, vacancy and repairs, notice and proof of loss, right to-
repair or rebuild, measure of damages, conditions affecting
mortgages and subrogation.
Text-books; Vance, May, Elliott, Kerr, Bliss, Joyce, Wood.
INTERNATIONAL LAW.
A knowledge of the law of nations in an indespensable
part of a liberal education. Young men generally, as well
as law students, ought to familiarize themselves with its prin-
ciples. In the diplomatic service and journalism it is partic-
ularly aidful. It is not a difficult study. In harmony with
the general principles of law and equity, it may be considered
a growth in the same lines. Like the law of the land, it is
conventional and customary, or written and unwritten. The
former consists in treaties, compacts, conferences, the formal
agreements of international congresses, etc. The later em-
bodies those usages which the continued habit of nations
has sanctioned for their mutual interest and convenience.
Customs lawful and innocent are binding on the nations that
adopt them, while customs unjust and in violation of the
natural and divine law have no binding force. International
law has high and unselfish aims in the. domain of conscience
and justice. It is divided into two branches—public and
private. The public branch refers to the law of nations in
the broadest sense, or the rules of conduct governing their
intercourse with one another as soverign and co-equal members
of one great international family. Those that widely differ
from them in civilizing influences and standards of morals
are not received into the family of nations, and hence not
treated as subjects of international law. The family of nations
28	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
includes the countries of Europe and the colonies established
by them throughout the world now changed quite generally
into sovereign and independent nations more populous and
<*
powerful than the mother countries. The private branch
comprises the local laws of different nations with respect each
to its claim of exclusive sovereignty, control of persons and
property within its borders and observance of good faith in
the comity disposing it to apply the same rules of protection
to the people and property of other countries when travelling
or abiding within its jurisdiction that such countries observe
in the treatment of its citizens and their property under like
circumstances. The term conflict of laws, instead of private
international law, is generally applied to the class of cases
coming under this head. Of these mention may be made
illustratively of marriage and divorce, birth and legitimacy,
contracts and their enforcement, bills and notes, pending suits
and judgments, assignments by insolvents, conveyances and
intestate estates, etc. Some of the subdivisions of public
international law may also be mentioned to indicate- more
clearly the line-of demarcation: The several kinds of unions of
states, recognition of belliegrancy, effect of change of sovereignty
upon public and private rights and obligations, fundamental
rights and duties of state, modes of acquiring territorial property,
rivers, lakes, bays, gulfs, straits and marginal waters, vessels
of war and merchant vessels public diplomatic agents, right ’
of asylum and extradition, aliens and their exemption from
military or naval duty, letters of marque, privateers and pirates,
naturalization and allegiance, mediation, arbitration, and
measures of restraint short of war, causes, pretexts and kinds v
of war, effects of war upon persons and property, military
occupation and postliminium, means of carrying on hostilities,
enemy character and non-hostile relations, prisoners of war,
peace and neutrality, contraband goods, visit and search,
right of angary, blockade and ships’ papers.
Text-book: Wilson, Glenn, Hall, Halleck, Woolsey,
Davis, Gro tins, Bluntschil, Phillimore, Calvo, Vattel.
interpretation and construction of ws
. This is a useful and practical branch of the law. It is
almost as aidful to the lawyer in the deeper and more analytic
lines of his work as the law of evidences is in jury trials. It
furnishes a key to the interpretation or correct understanding.
LAW DEPARTMENT
29
of the statutes, gives emphasized significance to the wording
of contracts and legal instruments, and makes it easier to
construe the reported opinions of the courts, separating readily
the dicta from the necessary substance or doctrine of the case.
The rules of interpretation came substantially from the Roman
law. They and the maxims were translated into English and
embodied in our jurisprudence. Among the subdivisions treated
under this head may be mentioned: Definition and object
of interpretation, intent to be sought, office of the judiciary,
retrospective operation avoided, popular and technical meaning
of words, casus omissus and equitable construction, strict and
liberal construction, rejection of surplusage, presumption against
unconstitutionality, general terms following special, express
mention and implied exclusion, reddendo singula singulis,
permissive, mandatory and directory statutes, adopted and
re-enacted statutes, title, preamble and context of statutes,
to be construed as a whole, admissibility of extrinsic aids,
statutes in pari materia, contemporary construction and usage,
construction with reference to the common law, statutes regulat-
ing procedure, construction of amendments and declaratory
acts, the nature and force of precedents, construction of statutes
of other States, etc.
Text-books: Black on Interpretation of Laws: Bishop,
Lawson, Dwarris.
EVIDENCE
This is an exceedingly important subject. It comprises
the body of approved rules under which the relevant facts in
issue on trial may be introduced and submitted for impartial
consideration to the court or judge and jury. It is the means
by which proof is established. It is virtually the same under
the code, at common law, in equity and under the criminal
law, as well as before arbitration boards and legislative bodies.
Its fundamental propositions are conclusive. Its four chief
canons are thus stated: 1st, the evidence must correspond
to the allegations and be confined to the point in issue; 2d, it
is sufficient if the substance only of the issue be proved; 3d, the
burden of proving a proposition or issue lies on the party holding
the affirmative; 4th, the best evidence of which the case in •
its nature is susceptible must always be produced. A thorough
knowledge of evidence is a necessary equipment of a trial
lawyer. It is made the subject of exhaustive study at Notre
30	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Dame and applied regularly in moot-court practice. Mention
may be made of a few of the topics that, with their subdivisions,
must be carefully studied in dealing with it: the grounds of
belief, it is easier and more natural to be truthful than to lie,
things judicially noticed, presumptions of law and fact, substance
<of the issue and relevancy, res gestae and burden of proof, hearsay
testimony, matters of public and general interest, dying decla-
rations, declarations against interest, confessions and admis-
* sions, evidence excluded on grounds of public policy, testimony
•of witnesses, their capacity and impeachemnt, records and
judicial writings, experts and handwriting.
Text-books: Hughes, Jones, Underhill, Elliott, Wigmore,
•Greenleaf, Wharton, Roscoe, Starkie, Stephen, Best.
CONSTITUTIONAL LAW.
This is the organic or fundamental law of our country.
'The Federal Constitution contains seven articles and’19 amend-
ments. It went into effect March 4, 1789, and was the first
-of written constitutions. Even to this day the British con-
■stitution is unwritten. The Federal Constitution is the instru-
ment by virtue of which the National Government exists,
possesses powers and exercise functions apart from the states.
It was adopted by the people, acting through their states,
and sustains comparison to a charter creating and conferring
power upon a corporation. As it is a grant of power the govern-
ment has no more authority to act beyond its scope than a
-corporation would have to act and make contracts in excess
of its franchise. Whatever the corporation might thus do
would be ultra vires and there is no good reason why the same
should not apply to the government, with the difference that
the act of the corporation is an indefensible usurpation and
violation of law and duty to the people, not less than an in-
vasion of their fundamental rights. It is a dangerous exercise
■of usurped power in either case and tends to the subversion
-of law and the destruction of constitutional government.
‘"The courts would have no alternative but to take substantially
this view if only the express terms of the constitution or charter
were in question, but the implied powers give rise to doubt
and controversy. These are within the general scope of the
general provision that all powers necessary to carry into effect
the express powers are implied and may be constitutionally
•exercised. Within that broad license, which without other
LAW DEPARTMENT
31
qualifications is the danger point in our organic law, many
of the most momentous acts in our history have been accom-
plished. Possibly most of the functions of government are
exercised within the sphere of these powers. It must never-
theless be remembered that constitutional government ends
at the point where these powers exceed the purpose and ob-
jects of the organic law. All powers not granted to the Federal
Government by the constitution remain in the people, and
the state constitutions, which comes nearer to them in their
local concerns, is a limitation upon the exercise of power by
the legislature, and not a grant. Local self-government is
an essential feature of our political system. The study of
constitutional law is exceedingly interesting and instructive.
Moreover, no lawyer can fairly be considered great in the
profession without having a thorough knowledge of it. A
student ought to learn the constitution by heart. It is sought
at Notre Dame to have young men make an exceptionally
thorough study of it.
Text-books: Black, Cooley. McClain, Story, Desty, The
Federalist.
EQUITY jurisprudence
This branch of study is highly important. Moreover, it
is fascinating in the harmony and impressiveness of its principles.
It comes to us from the Roman law. At an early day the common
law was so harsh and inflexible in its rules that it often failed
to attain the ends of justice. It was anomalous and uncouth
in many respects and adapted only to a rude state of society.
The kings were frequently appealed to for the redress of wrong
when the law failed to afford relief. Some were too young
to act in person and others were warlike and comparatively
illiterate. Under such circumstances, they were naturally
averse to take unaided action upon the petitions submitted
to them, and they called to their assistance ecclesiastics held
in high respect and learned in the Roman law, the most advanced
and perfect system of jurisprudence then known to mankind.
The prelates thus chosen by the kings to represent and act
for them on matters affecting conscience, right and justice
were invested successively with the dignity and title of lord
high chancellor. The care of the great seal was intrusted to
them, and they became “keepers of the king’s conscience,”
so that they might act as conscientiously as he should in the
32
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
light of their religious training and legal learning. They were
also to act with some measure of royal grace and favor, as the
terms of even present pleadings in equity clearly show. In
this capacity 160 of them served in successive order prior to
the reformation in the 16th century. In passing upon the
petitions referred to the throne and submitted to them they
applied the rules of the Roman law, as defined by philosophy,
together with moral precepts from the Bible, aiming to redress
wrongs and do justice where the common law failed to afford
relief. And little by little the common law yielded and accom-
modated itself on many points to the principles of equity as
thus elucidated and expounded. The statutes also followed
equity in several particulars, superseding the common law.
Thus equity grew steadily in favor and became permanently
established as a part of our jurisprudence. Its principles are
as distinctive under the code as where the common law system
of pleading obtains. It searches the conscience and follows
fraud and injustice into all the ramifications of human affairs.
But it can not be invoked for aid where the common law is
adequate to grant relief. It is only in cases where a proper
remedy can not be had at law that equity consents to the
jurisdiction. It is now so well established, even in Great Britian,
notwithstanding Blackstone’s animadversions, that the Judica-
ture Act specifically provides that in case of conflict between
its principles and those of the common law the former shall
prevail.
Text-books: Fetter, Eaton, Snell, Story, Adams, Merwin
Pomeroy.
CORPORATIONS—PRIVATE AND PUBLIC OR MUNICIPAL
The line of distinction between these two great classes of
corporations is well marked, and they are treated separately.
Under the system of study at Notre Dame, however, it is sought
to concentrate the attention 'upon each branch of the law until
it is finished and has taken deep root in the mind. It is con-
sidered more fruitful of satisfactory and abiding results to
pursue this course than to follow that of some other institu-
tions and deal with it at widely separated intervals, allowing
other subjects to intervene and lead at times to confusion and
loose habits of thinking. For much the same reason it is sought
here to associate or bring them together when practicable,
so that their mutuality of relation may be more readily under-
law department	33
stood and a clearer knowledge of them acquired. Hence, these
two great classes of corporations are dealt with in consecutive
order.
The subject of private corporations is more extensive
than municipal, and it is developed at greater length. In
brief, the subject of corporations includes their nature and
creation, powers and liabilities, acts of promoters and officers,
charters and management, ultra vires acts and dissolution,
rights and remedies of creditors; also, nature and powers
of public corporations, legislative control, municipal securities,
liability on contracts and for torts, city ordinances and police
courts.
This branch of the law is treated in all its multitudinous
ramifications from the initial organization to dissoluiton.
It is almost as broad and needs practically as much time for
study and recitation as the great branch of contracts or torts.
Municipal corporations comprise countries, • towns, cities,
or public governmental agencies. In a broad sense, the Federal
government, not less than the state or city, is a corporation,
the constitution being its charter and the statutes its by-laws.
By such comparisons it is sought to make subjects of study
mutually aidful.
Text-books: Marshall, Clark, Clephane, Elliott, Beach,
Ingersoll, Tiedeman, Dillon, Angel, and Ames.
WILLS, EXECUTORS AND ADMINISTRATORS.
The word “will” signifies the disposition of property t,o
take effect after the testator’s death. -The word testament
has a like meaning in the Roman law and is accepted as the
proper mane in such case in the countries of continental Europe
and South America, whose basic jurisprudence is derived from
that source. The word “will” is more commonly used in
the United States, Great Britain and its possessions, although
“testament” is often used in referring to the disposition of
personal property. When intended to convey a present estatej
though possession be retained until after death, the instrument
of conveyan.ce is a deed; but when the interest specified is
not to accrue until after death, the instrument thus disposing
of it is a will. The right to devise realty and bequeath per-
sonality is governed wholly by statute. A will is ambulatory
and may be modified or revoked at any time before death,
but once title takes effect under a deed the grantor has no
34
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
further power over it. An executor is a person named in the
will to represent and follow the intention of the testator in
giving effect to its terms. Not only must the will be probated
in court, but he must qualify there also and receive letters
testamentary before he can lawfully act. An administrator
is one appointed by the court to administer and settle the
estate of the deceased, as where he dies intestate or without
leaving a will, or dies testate without naming an executor.
Such personal representative acts in accordance with the
provisions of the statute and advice of the court. The utility
and practical nature of this extensive branch of the law may
be regarded as self-evident, and hence it must be 'Carefully
and diligently studied.
Text books: Rood, Gardner, Redfield, Jarman, Underhill,
Croswell, Woerner.
code pleading
This system is followed, with statutory modifications, in
more than three-fifths of the states. And in Great Britian
it was adopted in the main under the Judicature Acts of 1873
and 1875. It had its origin in New York, ousting and taking
the place of equity and common law pleadings. The commission
to act in the matter began the work of codification under the
Constitution of 1646. But it required several years to complete
codes of civil and criminal procedure. It was provided that
there should afterward be no distinction between legal and
equitable remedies and that the common law forms of action-
should be abolished. The new method was shaped chiefly
in accordance with equity procedure, for which it was sub-
stituted. One form of action was prescribed for all classes of
cases, whether of a legal or equitable nature. The pleadings
were greatly reduced in number and designated the complaint
or petition, answer and reply; also, the demurrer. A rule was
adopted requiring them to be concise and framed in language
clear, intelligible and easily understood. The new method was
regarded as a necessary reform in the interest of justice, and
widely adopted, especially in the new states. Since then,
however, so many statutory revisions have been made, and
so many rulings of the courts leading to divergences have entered
into it, that it is now harldly less free from doubt, uncertainty
and technicalities than the old system. At any rate, it appears
to be easier to determine on the old lines whether one has a
>	LAW DEPARTMENT	35
good cause of action. Moreover, the states that retained the
common law pleadings show no disposition now to change to
the code. And the same is true of the Federal courts. It is
comparatively easy for a lawyer familiar with common law
and equity pleadings to accomodate himself to the practice of
a code State, but not so where a lawyer of the latter under-
takes to practice under the old system, although the general
principles are the same. At Notre Dame all the ordinary systems
of pleading are taught, and a diligent student ought to be able
readily to qualify himself for practice in any State.
Text-books: Phillips, Bliss, Boone, Maxwell, Estee’s
Pleadings, Elliott’s Appellate Procedure, Ewbank’s Manual of
Practice.
COMMON LAW PLEADING AND PRACTICE
This subject calls into exercise the student’s power of
attention, ability to compare and analyze, accuracy in the
relation and sequence of thought, resourcefulness in finding
and taking the correct initiative in the theory to be adopted,
and skill in the logical development and establishment of the
theory, plan and facts in the case. It is impossible to find^a
better system of logic and practice in close reasoning than is
afforded by the study of common law pleadings. Moreover,
these pleadings as developed through several hundred years
•of use and practice may be said to underlie the code and other
forms of pleadings more recently adopted. Hence the common
law system and practice is taken up primarily at Notre Dame.
The subdivisions studied are here indicated in part: Courts
and jurisdiction, capacities and disabilities of parties, threefold
division of actions—real, personal and mixed—personal actions
ex contractu or on contract, as assumpsit, debt, covenant and
account; personal actions ex delicto or tort, as case, trespass,
detinue, replevin and trover; the summons or capias to begin
the action, and then the declaration, plea, replication, rejoinder,
surrejoinder, rebutter and surrebutter; also, the demurrer,
pleas in abatement or in bar and the several kinds of motions;
likewise, quo warranto, habeas corpus, scire facias, garnish-
ment, attachment and ejectment in the real, mixed an*d statutory
actions and forms of procedure; arbitration and award, cer-
tiorari, prohibition and mandamus, trial and development of
the facts under the evidence, instructions of the court and
verdict of the jury, grounds of motion for a new trial, entry
36
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
of judgment on the verdict if motion be refused, and the appeal
on claim of error to the court of review or supreme court.
Text-books: Shipman, Gould, Andrew’s, Stephen, Shinn,
Heard, Perry, Chitty.
EQUITY EEEADING AND PRACTICE
Pleading in courts of equity or chancery is less technical
and complicated than at common law. It is marked by greater
fulness and clearness of statement. We may divide equity
pleadings into the bill, disclaimer, plea, answer and replication;
also, the demurrer. The bill, answer and replication commonly
set forth and join issue on the disputed facts, and lead in im-
portance. The bills are classified as original and not original.
Again, they pray relief or do not pray relief. The original bills
praying relief are those claiming rights of complainant in
opposition to defendant, or the class of bills customarily in
litigation; also, bills of interpleader and bills of certiorari.
The original bills not praying relief are those to perpetuate
testimony, de bene esse and for discovery. The bills not original
comprise as a continuation of those just named the supple-
mental bill, the bill of revivor and the bill of revivor and supple-
ment. The bills not original are regularly intended for purposes
of cross litigation, or to controvert, suspend, reverse or carry
into execution a decree of court. They are the cross-bill, the
bill of review, bill to impeach a decree for fraud, bill to suspend
or avoid execution of a decree, bill to carry a decree into execu-
tion, bill in nature of bill of review, bill in nature of bill of
revivor, bill in nature of supplemental bill, and supplemental
bill in nature of bill of review. The bill is said to contain nine
parts, although seldom having more than five or six. They are
the address, introduction, premises or stating part, confederat-
ing part, charging part, averment of jurisdiction, interrogating
part, prayer for relief and prayer for process. It is shown in
the course of instruction that no complainant can sue in equity
unless the common law fails to afford adequate relief. If he
seek damages he must sue in a common law court. Nor has
equity anything to do with criminal matters. It has no jury
trials. The chief subjects of litigation in equity are comprised
under the general heads accident, fraud, mistake, specific
performance, trusts, injunctions, the reforming of instruments
and infringement of patents and copyright.	'
Text-book: Shipman, Fletcher, Barbour, Daniel.
LAW DEPARTMENT
37
ENGLISH
(a)	A detailed study of the Essay and the Oration.
(b)	Principles and Methods of Literary Criticism.
(c)	Frequent practice in writing in all the literary forms.
LOGIC, ethics
A thoroughNtudy of formal and material Logic.
A completensurvey of the whole field of Ethics
GRADUATE YEAR
THE ROMAN LAW
n
This great system is the basis of the laws of more than
three-fourths of the civilized.nations of the world. Its importance
and practical utility can hardly be realized unless it be studied
attentively, earnestly and analytically. Thus studied,, it is
discovered to be a rich mine of legal lore. Its principles seem
to shed light on all the ways to which human energies are
directed in the evolution of affairs. So striking is this fact
that there need be no hesitation in stating that it would be
almost as helpful to a beginner in the law to study the Institutes
of Justinian as Blackstone’s Commentaries. It may be said
indeed that the Commentaries command much of their favor
through adherence to the plan and use of the matter of the
Institutes and Pandects. Following are the chief subdivisions
comprised in the course of study at Notre Dame: Origin and
growth of the Roman law, the jus civile, the XII Tables in
substance, the Roman family and gens, patricians and plebeians,
consular government, laws relating to contracts, succession,
property, injuries, etc., jurisdiction of praetor, acquisition of
property ex jure gentium, the imperial system, relation of the
senate to the emperor, the praetor and jurists’ responses,
constitution^ of the emperor, stoic theory of natural law as
an element of jurisprudence, definitions and maxims, changes
wrought in law and government through the influences of the
oriental provinces, authority of the Christian clergy and relation
of church to state, study of the Roman law throughout the
civilized world, common and statutory law, public and private
law, jus personarum—law of persons, jus rerum—law of things,
obligations—ex contractu and ex delicto, jus actionem—law
of actions or civil remedies and procedure.
38
UNIVERSITY' OF NOTRE DAME
THE LAW OF ADMIRALTY
This law originated in the needs of commerce and the
usages of merchants at a time so remote in antiquity as to be
lost in obscurity. The shipping interests and commercial activ-
ities of peoples inhabiting the shores of the Mediterrnaean
sea, such as the Rhodians, Greeks, Egyptians, Phoenicians,
Carthaginians and others- were developed to a noteworthy
extent at the very dawn of authentic history, and even when
legend and history were so indiscriminately commingled that
fiction and truth had about equal control of popular credulity.
Like other branches of the law it has grown and is still growing
in the line of its recognized principles and adapting itself to
new or changed conditions throughout the world. In studying
the subject the student deals with the nature and extent of
its operation in the United States, cognizance of cases arising
under it in the Federal courts, contracts and wages of seamen,
torts and damages, employment of pilots, seaworthiness and
deviation, barratry and illegal traffic, perils of the sea and prox-
imate cause of loss, abandonment and valuation, subrogation
of insurer, bottomry and respondentia, supplies and repairs,
necessaries furnished in foreign ports, liens on foreign and
domestic vessels, towage service and responsibility respectively
of tug and tow in collisions, incidents of service and elements
of compensation in salvage, contracts of affreightment, charter
parties, bill of lading and its negotiability, harbors and docks,
piers and bridges, doctrine of imputed and contributory neg-
ligence, rules as to lights and signals in fair and foul weather,
colors and places of lights and duties of lookouts for the preven-
tion of collisions, rules to be observed by steamers and sailing
vessels in meeting and passing each other, wrecks and derelicts,
damages for collision, vessels transferred by bill of sale as
personal property, admiralty procedure similar to that of
Roman law and quite simple, comprising the lib^ and process,
defence and trial, evidence, decree and appellate procedure.
MINES, MINING- AND WATER RIGHTS
This branch of the law demands the diligent and dis-
criminating study of those who intend to reside in the Rocky
Mountain and Pacific States, although mining for coal, copper,
iron, lead, zinc, etc., not to mention gold and silver, is carried
on here and there in a majority of the States of the Union.
LAW DEPARTMENT
39
In the far Western States, however, as well as in Mexico, the
British Possessions and Alaska, it is especially important, if
not a leading branch of industry. In certain other parts of the
world it has been carried on without material interruption for
20 or 30 centuries. The regalian ownership of minerals is
generally recognized in monarchical countries, and title resides
in the crown, which exacts a certain percentage of the ores
mined or a compensatory tax. Under the laws of Athens 1-24
was taken by the government, while in the countries subject
to Rome 1-10 had to be paid. In our own country however,
the regalian right does not exist. The miners of California led
in the adoption of the main principles of the mining laws of
Spain and Mexico, which make the primary right of property
depend upon discovery, location and development. All mineral
lands of the United States are free and open to exploration and
occupation, subject to the rules and customs of miners. In
other words, the customs of miners constitute a part of the
common law, as do the customs of merchants, but they yield
to and are supplanted by statutory enactments to the contrary.
The range of study may best be indicated by the mention of
some of the leading subdivisions: Whence we derive the mining
laws, provisions of the civiTand the common law on the subject,
location and necessary annual work in establishing mining
claims, notable differences between American and foreign
mining laws, insufficiency of the act of 1866 and enactment
and provisions of that of 1872, exclusion of Chinese, general
outline of States statutes, miners’ rules not judicially noticed
and requiring proof, hyrdaulic and placer mining, petroleum
and natural gas treated as mineral and part of the soil, locations
on Indian reservations void, land in forest park reserves not
deemed public, known mines and minerals excepted from agri-
cultural patents, lode’claims not to be over 1,500 feet in length
and 600 feet in width, individual placer claims not to be over
20 acres and corporation or other such claims not to exceed
160 acres, tunnel claims and manner of locating them, water
rights and kindred easements, mill sites must be used for mine
or mill, percolating and underground waters distinguished,
proceedings to validate claims and secure patents, legal forms
under the mining laws.	*
COPYRIGHT, PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS
This branch of the law, like the preceding subjects of
4©
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
mining and admiralty, is somewhat technical and out of the
•current of ordinary legal studies. The utility of these subjects
depends largely upon the domicile of the learner. Mainly for
that reaseon they are placed in the graduate year, so that the
undergraduate students may be left free to devote their time
to subjects coming more directly within the sphere of the
general laws. Nevertheless, any of these studies may be taken
up,;in addition to those of the under-graduate years, by students
who can spare the time to pursue them. While it is to be hoped
that they may be taken in the regular order by graduates, yet
they may be chosen optionally and followed to completion by
any- students who consider them necessary in preparing for
practice. Graduates are, unfortunately, never numerous in
the law schools of the country, and hence the subjects indicated
.are placed in the year in which they are least likely to be em-
barrassing. A copyright secured through the Librarian of i
Congress gives authors and publishers the exclusive right of
printing, publishing and selling their literary compositions or
books or multiplying copies of what they have written or
printed for a period of 28 years. A patent protects the inventor
■of a new and useful article or improvement in the exclusive
right for 17 years to make and vend the same. A trademark
is a word, mark or device adopted by a manufacturer or vendor
to distinguish his goods from those of like kinds made or sold
by others. These matters are treated briefly, although perhaps
fully enough for the ordinary student, under the head “Personal
Property.”
TRUSTS AND TRUSTEES
This is an interesting and instructive topic. While dealt
with in brief under the head of “Equity Jurisprudence,” it is
nevertheless too important and practical to be thus summarily
dismissed. A trustee holds a position of great responsibility
and involving confidence in a high degree. His motives and
acts in the discharge of the functions of his trust are impartially
searched under the rules of equity by the trained conscience of
the chancellor. The course of study comprises these sub-
divisions: Origin and classification of trusts, trustees and
beneficiaries, trust property within and beyond the jurisdiction,
trusts executed, and executory, express and implied trusts,
constructive and resulting trusts, nature and characteristics of
trust estates, trusts from powers, trustees ex maleficio, accept-
ance or disclaimer and removal of trustees, perpetuties and ’
LAW DEPARTMENT
41
accumulations, deposit and conversion of trust funds, invest-
ments and interest, choses in action and reduction to possession,
rights of married women under statutes and separation deeds,
trustees for married women and infants, trustees of freeholds
and dry trusts, life tenant and remainderman, trustees for
payment under will and their power, assignments for creditors,
trusts for charities, cy pres doctrine, trustees to sell, application
of moneys received, rights and remedies of cestui que trust,
laches and statute of limitations, compensation of trustee,
actions and costs, termination of trust.
STATUTES OP STATE AND DOMICILE AND PEDER AL STATUTES
It is out of the question to attempt to study the statute
in general. On some subjects they harmonize in certain States
or groups of States, while on others there is the widest diversity.
No two states can be said to be exactly alike in their statutory
enactments. Moreover, the statutes are constantly changing
in accordance with the varying needs or legislative caprices of
the different States. No lawyer or court takes voluntary cog-
nizance of these changes. No court passes the boundaries of
its own State in taking judicial notice of the statutes. And
only its own public statutes and the Federal come within the
rule. The public statutes of a neighboring State must be pleaded
and proved as carefully as its own private statutes. The common
law presumably exists in other States unless the contrary is
shown. Neither student nor lawyer is required to go farther
than the court in this regard. He is not bound to know the
statutes of any State other than his own. To attempt to go
farther would be useless, confusing and embarrassing. They
are so diverse that it would be impracticable to undertake to
deal with them before a class comprising students from different
States. Hence the study of them is left under advice and
supervision very largely of the students themselves. Bach is
urged to procure and have with him for study in the graduate
year the statutes of his own State.
POWERS AND EUNCTIONS OP MASTERS-IN-CHANCERY, REPEREES,
SHERIFFS, CORONERS, JUSTICES OP THE peace, UNITED
STATES COMMISSIONERS, ARBITRATORS AND RECEIVERS
The course of instruction at Notre Dame comprises a
careful study of the official acts, powers and duties of public
officers, such as those named. Daw students ought to know
the general nature of their duties and how they should qualify
42
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
for the positions respectively held by them. It is not a difficult
branch of study and ought not to be neglected. It is useful and
practical in an eminent degree. Not being regarded, however,
as strictly essential, it is reserved for the graduate year, and
especially so since much is learned respecting the functions of
these officials in the undergraduate course.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
The foregoing outline of the subjects of study will
enable prospective students to comprehend readily the
wide range and exceptional thoroughness of the law
curriculum.
On account of the unusually favorable location of
the University for diligent and persevering work, it is
possible for industrious students to do at least a fourth
more in the year than is elsewhere accomplished. The
order of topics, however, is not arbitrary. It is directory
rather than mandatory. There is really ho definite
beginning or ending of the law. It is a seamless whole,
as strikingly remarked by Bishop, and one may begin
the study of it at any time and with any subject, and
so may he terminate it. Yet it seems to be more logical
and helpful to the memory to follow the order above
indicated. But should it seem advisable at any time to
change a subject from one year to another, such change
may be made at the pleasure of the Faculty.
Instruction is given, it may be repeated, by means
of text-books, the study of cases, lectures, quizzes in
review, weekly answers in writing to the more difficult
questions, monthly theses and moot-court work.
The lecture system, however, appears to be obsolete
or obsolescent in most of our American law schools,
while the use of text-books is coming more and more
into favor. Indeed, under the rules for admission to
the bar in numerous States the applicant must have
read a designated number of them before being deemed
eligible even for examination.
, uw DBPARTMIJNT	43
Very few students are sufficiently familiar with
phonography to follow a lecturer intelligently and
commit legibly to paper what he says. Unless thus
taken down the lecture and the authorities cited in it
are soon forgotten. But to have it taken down in full
by some one proficient in shorthand, type-written copies
of it being subsequently multiplied and sold, would
be contrary to the rules in force where lectures are
given, and far more expensive than a text-book on the
same subject. Owing to the general nature of the law,
there can be but very little in a lecture that is not to be
found also in some text-book or report, which is far
the more useful and valuable.
The case system, or study of cases, is the favored
method of instruction in several eastern and some west-
ern law shcools. It calls undoubtedly for careful study
and analytic reasoning, although not more so than the
examination and choice of authorities in moot-court
work. While retarding the progress of students to a
greater extent than do text-books, implying thereby
greater thoroughness, it fails nevertheless to present so
clear, comprehensive and systematic a view of the law.
Moreover it is a costlier system, so far as books are
concerned. The volumes of selected cases requisite for
study bear no comparison in utility with text-books, as
viewed with reference to subsequent office equipment
and practice. There is, however, a due appreciation of
the real merits of the case system at Notre Dame, and
it is followed as far as seems practicable in certain lines.
Taw students have recitation daily through-
out the year, based upon the text-books, the books of
selected cases, the questions answered in writing or
the subjects dealt with in the lectures. A reasonable
time must also be devoted daily to office and library
work, while some hours weekly are required for moot
44
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
court practice and exercises in parliamentary law.
Such, exercises offer exceptional opportunity and strong
incentive to acquire readiness in debate, fluency in
speech and force in forenisc oratory. In addition, the
regular courses in elocution and oratory are open to
the students of the Law School. Inter-class and inter-
collegiate debating is likewise entered into by the law
students.
When a subject is regularly begun in the law
course, it is studied and kept before the class, with
recitations day by day at the same hour, until finished.
It is believed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would be
if frequently interrupted by the intervention of other
and dissimilar subjects.
THB MOOT-COURT
The students of the second and third years are
required to attend and participate in the exercise of
the moot-court. The court is fully organized, having
a judge, clerk, state’s attorney, sheriff, coroner and
reporter. Pleadings are filed in the clerk’s office, served
and returned by the sheriff, brought to an issue with
due formality by the attorneys, and the trial proceeds
under the rules of evidence before a member of the
Faculty, acting as judge.
TUB LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether any
of them shows more care in the choice of books, or is
better adapted for the use of students. All the latest
reports of State and Federal courts are on its shelves,
and no difficulty is experienced at any time in finding
LAW DEPARTMENT
45
the cases needed for reference, thesis writing and moot-
court work. A great library, with a large attendance
of students—too many to be personally known by or
have personal attention from the faculty—may often
be less available for use or accessible than a compar-
atively small one. It happens sometimes in such cases
that many students are found vainly scrambling at the
same time to secure possession of a particular report or
text-book. Such experience fortunately does not fall
to the lot of the young men studying at Notre Dame.
Not only all the latest reports, but likewise the leading
textbooks, are on the library shelves. The number of
books on its shelves may be estimated at about 4,000,
but so carefully have they been selected that they
may be said to surpass in practical usefulness many
libraries twice as large. It adjoins the law lecture
room. It is open practically all day and until a reason-
ably late hour at night. The light and ventilation
are excellent, and students find it a very wholesome
and comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library
of the University is open likewise at all reasonable
hours to law students. It contains about 60,000 volumes,
together with the leading magazines and other current
publications.
The library privileges are on a generous scale, and
students are not specially charged for making proper
use of the books, although otherwise if any book be
lost or injured through negligence.
TEXT-BOOKS
The text-books enumerated in connection with the
subjects studied in the undergraduate years, as here-
tofore outlined, are regarded generally as standard
746	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
treatises, and named with a view chiefly to imparting
information relative to legal bibliography, manifestly
useful and instructive to students. One of these* books
is selected for their use by the Faculty in the treatment
of each subject. A change may be made from time to
time and a new book substituted for the old, as where
the new is deemed the better. No publishing house has
any claim whatever upon the patronage of students,
apart from the special merit of its publications and the
consideration of price, which must invariably be the
lowest retail rate. If a young man can learn the law
from text-books already possessed by him he is at
liberty to do so, although it has been found invariably
more convenient and satisfactory for all students to
use the same text-books in preparing for recitation. In
addition to the text-books, students should procure a
law dictionary, such as Anderson’s, Black’s, Bouvier’s
or Kinney’s.
The books used as the bases for recitation in class
work are chosen in no small measure with reference to
reasonableness of price and fitness for the use of students.
As a rule, however, they are narrower than the range
of study. This has in reality a much wider sweep in
lectures, quizzes, explanations and moot-court work.
It is sought in the study of principles, to enable students
to grasp the key that unlocks the mysteries and tests
the logic of afl law books.
The books specially used by students are ordered
by the superintendent of the student’s office and can
there be bought at the prices fixed by the publishers.
Under the circumstances, it is quite superfluous and
may be a source of loss for law students to procure
books before coming here. The cost of necessary text-
books may be estimated approximately at $20 a year.
LAW DEPARTMENT
47
TUITION, BOARD, LODGING AND BXPBNSBS
As already stated, students of this University live
within its precincts during the academic year. Some
have private rooms and others lodge in dormitories.
Those who have attained to or passed the second year
of academic studies, whether in law or some collegiate
course, are entitled afterward to free rooms. Those
below that grade lodge in the dormitories or pay extra
for rooms, as they choose. In other words, a preparatory
or high school graduate ranks as a freshman. After one
year’s study, whether in the law or any other course,
he attains to sophomore standing and becomes entitled
thenceforward to a free room. Should he insist, however,
upon having a room from the first, there would be an
additional charge for the freshman year.
The academic year is divided into two sessions, and
the cost of tuition for each is $50 in advance. This
division, however, makes very little difference in fact,
and the regular work of the University passes from one
to the other without special feature or interruption.
The cost of board, lodging, washing, mending, etc., is
$150 for each session. Thus tuition, board, lodging and
■ all the customary necessaries of student life amount
to $200 a session, or $400 a year.
The matriculation fee is paid but once, no matter
how many years afterward the student remains. It
amounts to $10, and such also is the final graduation
charge. This is paid prior to Commencement, when the
student receives his diploma.
The diploma evidences graduation and entitles the
recipient to admission to the Bar of Indiana, on motion,
without examination. He appears personally before
the Supreme Court, takes the prescribed oath of office
and receives, on payment of the clerk’s fee, the certificate
48	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
licensing him to practice as an attorney and counselor
at law.
The diplomas of law-schools, no matter how long
established or widely known, are not accepted in lieu
of examination ‘by the courts of states foreign to the
jurisdiction .in which they are granted. And even the
courts of the States in which they are conferred quite
generally decline to receive them as evidencing qualifica-
tions for admission to the Bar. There is a growing
tendency in this direction, and all graduates in law should
qualify themselves to enter the profession through the
recognized portal of a rigid and searching examination.
In this rural retreat the work of an earnest and
diligent student ought to be exceptionally fruitful and
effective. He ought to do here in a year as much as
is ordinarily accomplished in twice that time in some
of the law schools in the larger cities. This fact should
not be overlooked in considering the question of expense.
Moreover, a student here seldom finds occasion to spend
money, and his incidental disbursements are exception-
ally light. Considering the wholesome fare, comfortable
quarters and excellent accomodations that he has, not
less than his attractive surroundings, so inspiring and
favorable to study, it can not fairly be questioned that
his annual expenses at Notre Dame are quite moderate.
Tor like accomodations, services and advantages, the
charges are said to be relatively twice as great in most
other places.
Additional copies of this announcement and the
general catalogue of the University will be forwarded -
to any address, free of charge, on application to
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C.,
President oe the University,
Notre Dame, Indiana.