Series VIII.
Number L
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JULY, I9J2	’
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, 1905
I
For academic purposes it was found of advantage
this year to issue the University catalogue at an earlier
date than usual. This fact did not allow the inclusion
in that issue of an accotmt of the conferring of honors
and degrees at Commencement. It is intended in the
present issue of the Bulletin to supply that omission
and to present as well a complete account of Commence-
ment happenings, based on the “Scholastic” report.

Series VIIL	Number L
M ( 2, - M ‘ s ■	.	.
v g BULLETIN
SU OFTHE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JULY, 19X2	’
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, 1905
Directory of the University.
The FACULTY—Address:
THU UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
NOTR^ DAM3, INDIANA.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hald in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is 41 degrees, 43
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable
for a healthful climate where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great fatigue or
danger to health.
True Progress.*
THE REV. FRANCIS W. HOWARD.
Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His justice. (Matt. vi., 35.)
HE graduate of a Catholic university in passing
out into the larger world is confronted in our
day with a great responsibility. The training
and culture imparted by this renowned institution
should give her sons a pre-eminence and a leadership
in life; a pre-eminence in real power, that is, in virtue;
and a leadership in the emulation of well-doing, in
unselfish devotion to the public weal, and in loyal
adherence to the principles of our holy Faith. Who-
soever has received a special gift of nature, of fortune,
or of grace, has received it from God, not for his own
peculiar profit, but for the benefit of his fellowman
as well. You, the students of the University of Notre
Dame, are the products of Christian culture, and your
Alma Mater and your friends look to you to show
forth lives that shall be the unfolding and not the
contradiction of the principles and examples you
have learned in these hallowed walls.
We live in an age of great aspiration, and in a country
which is playing an important, perhaps the most
important, or at least the most conspicuous role at
the moment, in the great drama of history. This is
the country of the future, as we love to call it; and
the popular sentiment and conviction among us is
* Baccalaureate sermon delivered in Sacred Heart Church,
Sunday, June 16, 1912.
4
BULLETIN OB THE
that we are the leaders in the forward march of civ-
ilization. We need leaders; the world always feels
a profound need of leaders, never more so than now;
and the call of leadership is addressed to you.
Let us study the spirit of this age. Let us ask our-
selves, what are the things on which this age relies
and of which it boasts so much? Whither is humanity
tending? What is the great, the fundamental, the
real need of our time? The popular word of the day,
the word that is on a thousand tongues is “ progress.”
It is an urgent duty for you, my friends, who will
undoubtedly be called on to play a part, and perhaps
not an unimportant one in the maelstrom of modern
social, industrial, and political agitation, to study
this spirit of progress, and the philosophy that lies at
the basis of it.
Bvery age has its shibboleth. The world is no more
constant in its thinking than it is in its fashions, and
the history of civilization and of philosophy is, to a
great extent, a history of human aberrations and
vagaries. Men may be momentarily swayed by passion,
they may be apparently governed by sentiment; in
the long run, however, the thoughts and the ideas
of the thinkers work themselves out in the great move-
ments of men, and the revolutions of history. The
philosophy of an age comes to the surface in the watch-
words, the catch phrases, the shibboleths of the day.
An age is often under the tyranny of a phrase; we are
enslaved by our shibboleths. In the past century the
significant word was “liberty”; to-day it is “progress.”
But what is progress? Does humanity move on in
an ascending path each age and generation, carrying
the raceforward to a higher plane of perfection than
that attained by its predecessor? Or, does humanity
keep on moving in a never-ceasing agitation, like
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	5
the motion of a wheel, rota nativitatis? Or, are we moving
from a higher to a lower plane while under the delusion
that we are really advancing? Is progress nothing
but perpetual motion? Are the waves of humanity
that in successive generations people the countries of
the earth, like the waves that rise and fall in the sea?
What is that “increasing purpose,” which the poet
tells us, “through the ages runs;” and how are “the
thoughts of men widened with the process of the suns?”
No man can explain to you the meaning of this word,
and yet we are told that progress is universal law;
all things human are subject to its sway. Progress
is the law of evolution, and evolution is as pervasive
as gravitation. Vague and indefinite as this word is,
the spirit, the hopes, the aspirations, the ideals, the
practical philosophy of the age, are summed up in this
magic word, “progress.”
When we speak of progress our minds are first
naturally directed to the marvellous development in
the control which man has attained over the forces
of nature in the last century, and more especially in
the last generation. There is practically no limit to
the field of discoveries, for each invention causes new
adjustments and opens up new fields for discovery.
Nature is inexhaustible, and the ingenuity of man,
while it draws abundance from her store, can never
compass all her secrets. But a very passion of discovery
has seized us, and as a consequence, industry has
been developed; commerce has been organized and
extended as never before in history; and today it
takes the whole world to serve the individual. We
have brought the ends of the earth together in intimate
contact; we delve into the vast recesses of the earth;
we scorn even the lofty mountain tops in our aeroplanes;
and we say, what obstacle remains that the hardihood
6
BUttBTlN OF THB
of man will not attempt? Like Alexander, we would
fain regret that there are no more worlds to conquer.
When we analyze this material progress we find
that it is partly based on man’s elementary natural
desire to avoid pain and labor. The first aim of material
progress, therefore, is comfort. “Let us,” say the
advocates of progress, “attain to the irreducible min-
imum of pain in human life; let us invent machinery
to do the drudgery of the world.” No matter what
inconvenience or suffering must ensue in the displace-
ment and dislocation caused by the -turmoil of industry,
everything is supposed to yield to progress. The iron
heel of invention may stamp out man’s means of
livelihood, but this is only an incident, and he must
suffer that future generations may be confortable and
happy. So, labor and pain are regarded as synonymous,
and evils that progress will eliminate from human
life, or reduce to harmless proportions.
The sustaining of life depends on the proper satis-
faction of man’s primary needs for food, clothing and
shelter, but he also has craving for pleasure and enjoy-
ment. The ministry of sense and pleasure is the second
great function of material progress, and this function
augments as progress advances. The senses are ever
seeking new stimulation and sensation, and the mind
seeks novelty and amusement. Why that constant
procession of the young from the farm to city? Why
those thousands that throng the glittering streets at
night? Why that growing dislike for healthy, whole-
some labor? In the past much was heard of the right
to liberty, the right to work, the right of association;
today we begin to hear of the right to be amused.
The demand has been formulated that the accumula-
tions of wealth and property, whether acquired by
extortion or by thrift, shall be appropriated through
■ UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
7
the taxing power of the State for the enjoyment of
the people. The burden of public taxes bequeathed to
posterity does not affect the conscience of the present
generation. The demand of this age is, in the name
of progress, provide for our needs without effort on
our part, free us from all that is painful, and give us
all that is pleasant and entertaining.
My friends, do you ask me if this material progress
conducts mankind along the path that leads to its goal?
Does it guarantee the happiness of society and give
us assurance of the uplifting of the human race? Need
I traverse the pages of history for you to point out the
ruins of the nations that sought the apogee of human
civilization in a material welfare? They followed the
path of materialism, of luxury, of sensualism, and
inevitable law brought them to decadence and ruin.
The hope of attaining a perfect or a higher state of
civilization through material progress is perhaps the
great delusion of the age. It is the promise of socialism.
Man is made for labor, and to suffer and endure is the
lot of humanity. We should utilize everything placed
in our power to alleviate our unfavorable conditions;
we should do all we can to diminish pain and suffering;
to abolish them is beyond our power. “In the sweat
of thy brow thou shalt eat thy bread;” and no machin-
ery shall blot out the decree of the Almighty. And
if labor is a penalty it is a blessing and a solace as
well. “I have found there is nothing better for a man
than to rejoice in his work, for this is his portion;”
and the very curse of modern progress is just this, that,
it has brought conditions which make it impossible
for man to rejoice in his work.
The pursuit of the pleasant life brings even greater
burdens to man. The spirit of avarice, the motive
spring of our industrial system, invents its luxuries
8
BULLETIN OB TH#
to minister to our cravings for sensation, for enjoy-
ment, for pleasure. But in time these luxuries become
mere conveniences, and in the end, necessaries. We
enjoy them freely in the beginning, but by the law
of habit they become our masters, and thus our progress
only adds to the burdens and complexities of life.
Never was there an age that had greater cause to
exclaim “ deliver me from my necessities.” This material
progress, even if the wildest dreams of its worshippers
were realized, could never satisfy us; for man is made
for higher things than the*mere enjoyment of sense.
But it is in our so-called intellectual progress, perhaps,
that the modern mind finds its greatest cause for
complacency. Intellectual progress is usually indentified
with the progress of physical science. No one, we are
told, can foresee the limits to which the power of the
human mind may ultimately extend in its study of
the forces of nature. The results of these investigations
have been applied to the satisfaction of man’s needs
and his wants in every avenue of industry. The enthu-
siast of progress sees the fulfilment of all our aspirations
in the growth of mental power. We believe that we
know so much more than all who have preceded us,
because we ignore the fact that man forgets as much
as he remembers, and we persuade ourselves that we
have inherited from the past all the knowledge it had
that is worth having, and that we have added to the
store. So we call his the age of science par excellence.
We organize, systematize, tabulate. Science will solve
all our problems, and procure us all blessings.
But “the eye is not filled with seeing, nor the ear
with hearing.’” livery physical science comes to a
point in its development where its new problems are
like the old ones. The problems themselves are infinite
in number and alike in character. The boasted science
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
9
of the day which refuses the aid of philosophy, not to
speak of its contempt for the light of supernatural
faith, leads us nowhere. It becomes in the end either
the servant of material progress, or merely the satis-
faction of curiosity and an aimless mental exercise. It
leads to vanity, to ennui, to discontent. Progress in
secular knowledge can never satisfy mankind. “Our
hearts are made for God, and they will not find rest
till they rest in the love and the knowledge of Him.”
I have said that underneath all this striving and
agitation there is a certain practical philosophy that
directs the current of a nation's life. The nation’s
controlling tendencies are directed along the lines of
the philosophy, or the principles and ideas of its leaders
and thinkers. The principles underlying this modern
progress are not something external to man; they are
moral facts. These principles are: the modern or the
prevailing conception of human nature; the modern
conception of moral law; the modern conception of
man’s origin and destiny. These things constitute the
very essence of the spirit of progress.
And what is this philosophy of progress? There
is today a philosophy enthroned in secular universities
which starts from a vague pantheism and ends in
universal skepticism. Its principles are negations. It
is the philosophy of decadence and of pessimism. But
it is not the popular philosophy of the day. The
American people have no patience with the philosophy
of impotence. Our philosophy is the philosophy of
energy and results. The dominant philosophy of our
time is the theory and the principles of the doctrine
of evolution. At the basis of the glorification of our
.material and intellectual life, and, to a very great
extent, the practical working theory of our political
and social leaders, is the theory that man came up
*
IO
BULLETIN OB THB
from lower stages of life. Civilization began in bar-
barism, and, as man emerged from savagery, he took
on, one by one, the functions of social life. He is now
in a transitional stage, and is moving on to a higher
phase of development. We are moved along, the
apostles of modern progress tell us, we know not by
what impulsion; but by the law of progress we ever
tend forward to the perfect man, nay, to the perfect
morality, and to the perfect religion. In fact, the
mind can not see, nor the heart conceive the excellence
of the future man. The literature of the day is impreg-
nated with this malign philosophy. It has become the
very mode of thinking of the time; a form of the modern
mind. What is socialism but this philosophy of progress
applied to social and industrial life, the effort to create
a perfect society on earth? And what is modernism,
the synthesis of all heresies, but the philosophy of
progress applied to religion, the casting aside of the
supernatural, and the effort to rise above the natural
by purely natural means?
The cardinal doctrine of this philosophy of progress
is a false theory of the perfectibility of man, a theory
that might be called the ignis fatuus of history; and
a theory that is at the foundation of every project
that has ever been broached to realize the millennium
on earth. This theory postulates that man’s nature
■ is ever changing, and improving while it is changing.
The doctrines of the fall of man, of original sin, and
of the need of supernatural grace to elevate man above
his fallen condition and his purely natural state—
doctrines without which there can be no true under-
standing of man, or of his history—are brushed aside
as fables and imaginings. But where does history
show us this ascent of man? This theory of man’s
perfectibility is in flagrant contradiction to the lessons
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
II
of universal history and of individual experience. On
this theory civilization and all history are an inexplicable
enigma.
This, my friends, is the spirit of this age of progress
in which you are called to live and to lead; and this
the philosophy that will confront you in magazine,
newspaper, and speech. It is an atmosphere in which
we live. Alas, the poison of this secularism has injured
the souls of many of the children of the Church, and the
false standards of the day lead numbers astray.
But let us inquire now, what is the standard of true
worth and excellence for human life? It is a subject
of vital interest to know what this true standard of
human excellence and perfection is, and to know how
man can reach those heights towards which he does
and should aspire. Nature does nothing in vain and
there must be some way of attaining the object of
humanity’s striving. Bor life is a striving. “Life,”
says St. Thomas, “is first manifested by this, that
a thing moves itself; and every being moving itself
is said to be living.” We are beings of a noble nature
and we are so constituted by the Creator that we
love the true, the good, and the beautiful. The energies
of the soul are directed by that motion which we call
love to the attainment of these objects. Our nature
would tend upwards; we are born to aspire; but our
infirmity, our passions, our concupiscence, incline us
downwards. It is this declension of the heart and
soul of man that the modern world so foolishly calls
progress. This progress towards low ideals and ignoble
ends, is movement indeed, but it is retrogression, and
its end is decadence and ruin.
There is a genuine progress, both for the individual
and for society. There is progress when the vision is
fixed on lofty ideals, and the heart is filled with inspira-
12
BUklyBTlN OS'
tion, with energy, and with love; and when, through
disinterested self-sacrifice, through generosity and mor-
tification, through effort and virtue aided from on high,
the soul conquers the obstacles of sense, of passion
and of sin and tends towards God Himself, from Whom
it had its first beginning, and for Whom it is destined
as its last end. This movement, my friends, is progress.
This leads to happiness for the individual; to stability,
order, peace and justice in society. There is no other
progress.	’
In our Lord Jesus Christ we have the true leader
in the onward and upward march of humanity. In
His doctrines and in His teachings we have the standards
and ideals of true human progress. The impulse towards
progress is implanted in our nature, but “let us grow
in all things like Him who is our head, Jesus Christ.”
The path of true progress for the individual and for
society is along the lines of His religion. All approach
to Him and conformity with His law and doctrine
is progress; all departure from Him, either in the
individual or in society, is retrogression. He is the
standard of our actions, the ideal of our endeavors,
the hope of our race, “the way, the truth, and the
life.”
The world has no need of a new morality or a new
' religion. The ideal morality and the true religion
exist; they need only to be made actual in the lives
of men. The standards of true progress are fixed and
determined and altogether unchangeable. They are
the immutable dictates of the moral law written by
God in the heart of man, and the unchangeable doctrines
of the religion of Our Lord Jesus Christ.	.
As the false conception of the perfectibility of human
nature is the basis of the utopias that have distracted
society, so the true idea of man’s perfectibility is the
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
13
basis of true progress and the key to the proper under-
standing of history. Human nature was created by
God, and remains fixed. It is. the same in all times and
places. There is nothing new in human life; “nothing
new under the sun/’ says the wise man. But man is
created to the image and likeness of God, and though
his nature was tainted by the fall of our first parents
and by original sin, it is not wholly corrupt; and
aided by divine grace it may be brought to its due
and proper perfection. Those nations are truly cultured
in which the impelling motive is the perfection of the
individual based on this conception. That nation is
retrograde in which there is wanting a proper under-
standing of the dignity of man.
The spirit of modern progress is that of pure natural-
ism and secularism. The very idea of the supernatural
seems to have disappeared from the minds of those
outside the Church. What the future of a nation must
be that turns its back on God, history tells us; and
if our age goes on unchecked in its course, instead of
that perfection and refinement which are promised
to us in the name of progress, history tells us we are
in danger of reverting to the decay and barbarism
that followed the disappearance of the civilizations of
Babylon and Rome. But in the religion of Christ we
have the secret of the perpetual rejuvenation and per-
fection of society. Christianity is the conservative
and constructive force in society today; and the con-
structive force of the Christian religion is directed to
the reform of the individual.
If humanity would be led aright it must be led by
men with the spirit of religion. The problems of our
civilization are the problems of every other civilization
that has gone before us, or will come after us. The
cannon, the printing press, the steam engine, and the
14
BULLETIN OB THE)
telegraph are the pillars that support this reign of
universal democracy; but this democracy has brought
no new problems. Invention and progress have simply
extended the old problems to a wider space, and affected
simultaneously a greater number of people; and trite
as it may sound, it is nevertheless universally true,
the great need of society in all ages is virtue in the
individual, and the danger of society in all ages is \ice
in the individual. It is useless to perfect your institu-
tions unless you seek first to perfect your men. Democ-
iacy will not save men, material prosperity will not
save men, intellectual or artistic progress will not
save society; only the effort to fulfil and uphold the
moral law will save society; and without religion there
can be no moral law.
My friends, would you know the truth? The world
is weary of its progress. It wants to get away from its
progress. When was there such unrest, so much agita-
tion, such world-wide discontent? Material progress
is making man the slave of the machine, and intellectual
progress is making him foolish; “professing themselves
wise they become fools.” What do we need? We
need social justice, we need mental repose, we need a
reform in morals, in a word, all our needs are summed
up in one, the need of religion.
If we -would seek true progress, if we would promote
the welfare of society and our own salvation, our watch-
word must ever be the words of Christ, our Leader,
“Seek ye first the Kingdom of God and His Justice.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
15
The Modem Newspaper.
MAX PAM, RD. D.
ANBWSPAPBR is essentially and fundamentally
a commercial enterprise but it is unique in
this, that it is the only commercial enterprise
with the power to control the thought and action of
the people amongst whom it circulates. Whilst paying
dividends to the owners, it may unmake governments,
dethrone rulers, enact and repeal laws, destroy fortunes
and reputations, and subvert justice without ever
once losing sight of the financial profit accruing from
the enterprise. If you or I, or any other private citizen,
wish to invest in manufactures, banking dr merchandise
of any kind, we do so with the avowed purpose, openly
expressed, of making profit of the investment. There
is no pretence of patriotism, though indirectly great
public good may result from the venture, through the
opening up of new avenues of employment for the
country’s workers, the development of resources, or
the fostering of industry, which flow from judicious
and profitable investment. The newspaper business
in this way enjoys an immense advantage over all
other forms of commercial enterprise. By the very
fact that it is a newspaper it is supposed to be ani-
mated by altruistic and patriotic motives. It speaks
for the people and in the name of the people. It sets
itself up as the tribune of the people championing
their rights and defending their liberties without ever
losing sight of the profits to be gained from its business.
The merchant exposes his wares for the inspection of
the purchasing public. His success depends upon the
BUBBBTIN OB TUB
16
character and quality of these wares and the truth-
fulness of his representations. The same thing is
true of the manufacture, the farmer, the artisan or the
laborer. It is a purely business undertaking, and the
purchaser is in a position to know just what he is pur-
chasing. In the case of the newspaper it does not hold
true. Certain items of news may be featured or sup-
pressed without any reason being given, or the motives
and influences inspiring editorial utterances being
disclosed. The man who buys a newspaper is purchas-
ing news and editorial opinion, but he is not in a position
to place a true value upon what he is getting. It may
be garbled news, and the editorial opinions may be
anything but warranted by the facts in the case. There
is thus always a possibility that a newspaper may
capitalize its patriotism and misuse its powers; but it
is greatly to the credit of the American press that there
have been few examples of newspaper recreancy. Our
papers are still surrounded with the halo of popular
confidence, and there is a general belief that anything
that appears in their columns is necessarily true
This may be due to the fact that they have followed
the people rather than led; have reflected their thoughts
and sentiments rather than manufactured thoughts
and sentiments on their own account. The people at
the same time have exercised, and will continue to
exercise, a wholesome check upon any tendency to
stray from high ideals, and events have shown that
the most successful papers, even from the standpoint
of financial profit, have been those which have con-
sistently been faithful to the public interests. There
have been instances here and there in which newspapers
have acquired a transient popularity in spite of the
fact that they departed from the best tradition of
the profession and violated its ethics; but their tern-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
17
porary success in every instance has been followed by
the inevitable reaction and popular disfavor, which
in the newspaper would mean a rapidly declining
influence and ultimate disaster. And thus it comes
about that though the modern newspaper is at bottom
a financial venture it must be true to its altruistic and
patriotic profession or incur the penalties attached
to recreancy and faithlessness to high ideals.
ITS UNIQUE PRIVILEGE.
The subject in hand is capable of treatment from
many standpoints. I might deal with the press in
its relation to national and international politics,
finance, commerce, social and economic problems, the
sciences and arts, and in fact to every phase of life
that comes within the range of its influence. I wish
to treat .at this time of a relationship which in my
judgment affects the very source and fountainhead of
national wellbeing, viz.: that of the newspaper to the
home, for by its influence for good or evil on the homes
of the land must the newspaper in the last analysis
be judged. Why do I claim that the supreme test
applied to the modern newspaper must concern its
relationship with the home? Because every test of
national vitality and national virtue must begin and
end there. It is unnecessary for me to advert to the
importance of only such influence entering home life
as make for the betterment and uplifting of the race. '
The home after all is the great school in which the
real lessons of life are learned and in which the men
and women of the future are trained.
The modern newspaper enjoys the unique privilege
that, outside the influence and teaching of the parents,
it is one of the very few educational agencies that
come directly into the home. It is an everyday visitor,
BUUzJ^TlN OB TH#
18
a welcome guest, a guide, consoler, friend and teacher.
To the young it opens up the big wonderland of the
world without. It plays upon their youthful imagina-
tions, hopes and ambitions. It tells the hero-tales of
sacrifice and achievement, the stories of patriotic
devotion which instil into their hearts that noble
passion, love of country. To the mother it brings in
concrete form the actualities of life which her children
later on will be called upon to face, the dangers and
pitfalls which await them, the opportunities within
her children’s reach and a knowledge of the preparation
necessary in order to embrace them. It conveys to
her at the same time the sorrows and misfortunes of
the world without, and, by arousing her gentle woman’s
sympathy, exerts a softening and refining influence
upon the family life. To the husband, the bread winner
of the family, it brings the needed mental recreation
and at the same time knowledge and information,
bearing upon his profession or business activities. He
is made acquainted with conditions in his own com-
munity, the affairs of state, the great questions of the
hour, and is thereby better qualified to discharge the
duties and obligation of citizenship. All this is on the
assumption that it is the right kind of newspaper.
The wrong kind can do an infinite amount of harm.
When Rousseau and Voltaire first began preaching
their impieties and strange theories of government,
no one in France paid very much attention to them.
Their ideas were novel and original, their flippancy
and daring evoked applause in certain quarters, and
there were a good many who thought it would do no
harm to stir the dry bones of national conservatism.
They amused the upper classes, but the masses were
taking them seriously, how seriously no one realized
until the Revolution burst upon them with all the
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
19
fury of a devastating flood. A few years ago in this
country no one took socialism seriously. It was generally
regarded as a beautiful and impractical theory of
equality born in the brain of a dreamer, but there
was no suspicion that it would ever obtain a foothold
on American soil. But what has happened? Almost
a million of apparently sensible voters march to the
polls on election day and deposit their ballots for leaders
whose avowed purpose is to completely overturn the
present governmental structure. The same thing has
happened in England. A generation ago no one thought
or talked of social revolution. Today the situation has
assumed a seriousness which no one is disposed to
underrate. France at the present hour is in the iron
grasp of syndicalism whose avowed object is to destroy
the present state of society in order to rebuild anew,
and Germany _face to face with an ever-grownig
menace of militant socialism.. And how has all this
been brought about? Bven level-headed statesmen
‘ ’ and patriotic publicists could not realize and did no
foresee the insidiousness of the propaganda until it
had taken a firm hold upon the masses. The same is
true in a measure of America today. We do not realize
how seriously the widespread spirit of discontent and
unrest is crystallizing itself into theories and move-
ments, having for their purpose the overthrow of
existing institutions. This movement which threatens
our social and economic structure has assumed grave
proportions wholly and solely because it has utilized
- the press in furthering its campaign. At the first glace
the established order has no need of champions; but
thoughtful men amongst us are beginning to realize
that the insidious campaign has made such an appre-
ciable advance that the time for aggressive resistance
has certainly arrived.
20
BUIvLBTIN OB THB
There is a certain percentage of the people who
are so busy with the affairs and activities of daily
life and so absorbed in the things that concern them-
selves that they are oblivious to the possible conse-
quences until the false teachings and dangerous theories
have taken deep root. When they awake the situation
has become so serious that it requires the marshalling
of all the conservative forces to combat and over-
come it.
The press at times has been unwittingly and un-
consciously used to disseminate these false teachings.
Some publicists from a chivalrous if mistaken sense
of fairness have opened their columns to the champions
of dangerous theories. In the bitterness of party strife,
false leaders have sometimes attained an unwarranted
prominence, and because of this prominence have
been able through the press to gain a substantial
following. Without the press their campaign would
have been ineffective and they would never have
attained a nation-wide influence. Without it their
influence would have been confined to the communities
in which they lived; with it and through it their doc-
trines have become questions of national import.
We are all agreed that the press must be free, but
its freedom begets responsibilities. If it is to remain
a most important educational agency it must perform
the functions of the true educator. It must do what
the father does in the home, what the teacher does
in the classroom; it must sift the false from the true,
and hold up the truth as something to be loved and
followed after, the false as something to be shunned
and feared. When its columns are utilized to give
expression to theories and doctrines that are false and
dangerous, is there not .a responsibility at the same
time resting in the newspapers to direct the attention
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE dame
21
of the readers to the fallacies of the teachings and the
weakness of the arguments, so that the reader may
not be misled, but .be guided in arriving at correct
conclusions?
Training necessary.
It has been aptly said that the modern newspaper
is overrated and underrated; it is misused and abused;
it is a school of culture and the death of culture; it
is a modern university and the destroyer of education.
During my visits to England I have been greatly
impressed by the thoughtful character of many of the
newspapers and periodicals, and these have been to
me an evidence of a serious-mindedness and a culture
which are highly desirable in any country. The diction,
the style and the literary finish are admirable. From
the standpoint of news-gathering our American news-
papers are easily their superiors. Our editorial view-
point, as a rule, is broader and much less provincial
than that of the English journals, but we fall far behind
them in those things which make for literary quality
and in the grasp of the eternal verities, which gives
us the true philosophy of life and conduct. There are,
however, in this country, I am glad to say, some very
notable exceptions, but the fact that they are excep-
tions makes it all the more regrettable. There is a
reason for this condition of affairs. We are still a young
country, behind England in journalistic experience.
Whilst it is true that most of our writers and men of
letters have graduated from our newspaper offices, it
is equally true that in our schools and universities our
young men have not been trained for literary and
journalistic careers. The late Mr. Pulitzer, a great
journalist, recognized our disadvantages on this score
and devoted a vast fortune towards the founding of
22
BULLETIN OB THB
a school foi* journalism in connection with Columbia
University. And I, in a humbler way, am founding a
chair of Journalism in this University with the primary
purpose that young men coming here shall make letters,
or that form of letters known as journalism, a profession.
The young journalist or reporter who goes out now-
adays to secure news has apparently an ambition to
set forth a lurid story, and in doing this the interests
of truth are sacrificed, and often with the most serious
and irreparable consequences. I want the young men
trained here to be lovers of the truth, and I feel that
in a religious atmosphere of this kind my purposes
and objects will be more steadily kept in view. I want
them to be men of letters, men of knowledge and sound
views. I want them to be men of conscience and high
ideals. I want them to be such that when their life’s
work is done and men gather about them to pay their
final tributes they can truly say, in the words of John
Boyle O’Reilly:
Come, workers; here was a teacher, and the lesson he taught
was good.
There are no classes or races, but one human brotherhood;
There are no creeds to be outlawed, no colors of skin debarred;
Mankind is one in its rights and wrongs—one right, one hope,
one guard.
By his life he taught, by his death we learn the great reformer’s
creed:
The right to be free, and the hope to be just, and the guard
against selfish greed.
Brom the midst of the people is stricken a symbol they daily
saw,
Set over against the law books, of a Higher than Human Taw;
Tor his life was a ceaseless protest, and his voice was a prophet’s
cry
To be true to the Truth and faithful, though the world were
arrayed for the Lie.
I want to make this chair of journalism a most
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
23
effective department in the work being done by this
'university as well as an effective aid to the causes of
clean and sound journalism the country over. I shall
watch with a jealous eye the developments of this
foundation, and if the results be, as I now believe they
will be, this chair of journalism will receive from me
additional and substantial support.
our dominant trait.
America’s besetting sin is a tendency toward exag-
geration. This is true of every phase of life, but it is
most noticeable in journalism. This tendency toward
exaggeration inflames passions, arouses prejudices,
gives rise to immature opinions and rash judgments;
it pictures our public men as either angels or devils;
it closes the avenues of sane and thoughtful consid-
eration, and leads, in the majority of cases, to a biased
and partisan judgment; it reverses the natural and legal
presumption of innocence into a presumption of guilt,
and destroys that poise and balance which an impartial
and truthful narrative of. fact should have as a basis
for a sound and just judgment as to the merits of
any subject.
DESIRABLE FEATURES.
I have always felt that amongst the masses whose
circumstances prevent them from taking advantage
of higher educational facilities, a newspaper might
do much to develop a real literary taste, and to that
end, there should be in every modern newspaper a .
literary department, which shall be literary in the
true sense of that term, a department which will be
instrumental in developing a taste for that form .of
literature which makes for true culture and has a
refining influence upon the people’s thoughts and
lives.
24
BULLETIN OB THB
There is a general feeling nowadays that a news-
paper should exclude religious subjects. I do not
agree with this attitude. I do not see any good reason
why the newspaper should not bring into the home
religious teachings and religious precepts.. I would
like to see in every issue of a newspaper a special column
devoted to religious subjects. Surely in the pages
where human crime and degradation and the reports
of misdeeds and misfortunes are specially featured the
solace and comfort of religious thought should also
find a prominent place. As crime begets crime and the
chronicle of criminal daring challenges the admiration
of the weak and depraved, what nobler function can
the journalist perform than to put in juxtaposition
the rewards of righteous conduct, and for the erring
and despairing the new courage and fresh hope, which
religion more than any other agency holds out to
him. Is there anything sweeter, anything nobler than
the charity, sympathy and tenderness which religion
inspires in the human breast for the unfortunate, the
wayward and the weak? What higher function can
journalism perform? What greater service to the
state or to humanity?
conclusion.
As I conceive it, the essentials of good journalism
are independence, courage, devotion to truth, the
spirit of justice, a high order of patriotism and a lively
sense of its responsibilities. A newspaper is a trustee
having in its charge the confidence, the faith and
virtue of the people whom it seeks to reach and influ-
ence. We must recognize that a newspaper will have
the shortcomings and limitations of the average human
being. We will have the ideal newspaper when we have
the ideal man, but this does not prevent our straining
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	25
towards ideals. In my letter announcing the foundation
of a school of journalism in this University I said:
“To have the right kind of journalism we must have
the right kind of journalists.” The newspaper of the
future that will exert the most beneficent influence
and possess the greatest power for good is the one that
will have a staff of journalists whose lives and utter-
ances will be characterized by conscience, by a high
sense of duty, by sympathy with those who are honestly
struggling with untoward conditions, by that charity
which hesitates to destroy reputation and honor, by
tolerance for the convictions and opinions of others,
by the courage to stand alone if necessary in the defence
of principle and the vindication of truth and righteous-
ness, by that religious and reverential spirit which is
ever mindful of that which is higher than any man-
made law, the source from whence comes the highest
form of justice, the immutable, unchanging principles
of right and wrong. With these virtues and principles
animating the minds and hearts of those who control
it and are responsible for its utterances, the modern
newspaper in the homes of the nation will be what it
was ever destined to be, a real teacher, imparting sound
views, shielding virtue, exposing vice, promoting the
highest forms of civic patriotism, winning respect and
confidence, and making for all that is best and most
enduring in the life of the individual as well as of the
state.
26
BUU^TIN OP TH#
Bachelors’ Orations.
I—Conservation of Material Resources.
JOHN" P. MURPHY, UR. B.
lesson that “Prudence means to provide/'
I lias been verified by abundant experience. In
Scripture we read of the famine of the Egyptians.
We all recall the dream of Pharaoh, and the prophetic
interpretation of Joseph, that youthful and innocent
prisoner whom God led by the hand. The king believed
implicitly, and provided wisely against appro aching-
calamity. Joseph was made governor of the land of
Bgypt. During the years of plenty he gathered from %
the abundance of the field and filled all the granaries
of the realm. And when the years of leanness
came and cast their blight upon the land, filling all
hearts with premonitions of impending woe, behold,
there was sufficient food not only for the Bgyptians
but also for the neighboring nations who labored in
the throes of famine. Thus it was that prudence saved
a nation. Time and again have warnings such as this
the Scripture tells about gone unheeded, and we find
suffering the penalty of the disregard. Not only! in-
dividuals but nations as well expose themselves to^the
dangers of childish improvidence. Today* the greatest
example of this weakness is to be found in our own
“spendthrift nation," as Bngland calls us. Since the
discovery of America we have been ravaging and
wasting its resources with no thought for the morrow.
We have been blinded by.prosperity. So great and rapid
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
27
has been the growth of our nation that men have called
it miraculous. Miraculous this growth would indeed
be, if we did not consider the resources which form
the foundation of this nation. It is because in no
other nation of the world have resources been found
so varied, so abundant and so accessible. To these
resources we owe our industrial and political greatness,
for the greatness of a nation depends in great part
upon its resources. If it has great forests, fertile lands,
abundant water power, vast supplies of metals and
coal in its depths it has a solid material basis, for in
these we find the necessities of life, without which a
nation can not be independent. Our country has been
blessed with an abundance of all these. Her fields
have been fertile, her forests extensive and her mines
a source of the world’s supply. So long as these condi-
tions remain the United States will hold her place
as the foremost power. But investigation shows us
that conditions are changing, that our resources are
fast being devastated, that we are weakening the
foundation which is so necessary to the nation’s future.
The question that confronts us now is: Shall we look
to the future? Or shall we go on tasting the best fruit
of our resources, and leaving the rest in a chaotic
condition as a heritage for posterity? Reason and
patriotism call a halt. Reason tells us that - ye are
fundamentally wrong; logically and economically wrong.
Patriotism stirs us with an appeal for the future of
this nation. It calls the men of today to carry on the
work of our fathers who died that we might enjoy the
blessings of freedom. The keynote sounded by the
Conservation Conference of State governors a few
years ago should be a clarion call for all patriotic
Americans. “Let us,” said they, “conserve the founda-
tions of our prosperity.”
28
BULLETIN OB THE
Now let us draw-aside this curtain of prosperity.
Like the strong vigorous man who laughs at infirmity,
our nation, now strong and vigorous, mocks all warnings
of the scientists. They have told us that our resources
are going to waste, that many of them will soon be
exhausted.
Our coal fields have been exploited with a shameful
disregard for the future. Mr. Pinchot states that
three hundred million tons of coal were wasted during
the year 1906, and he estimates that fully fifty billion
tons have been lost since the coal industry began.
He warns us that our best coal fields will be exhausted
within a hundred years. Statistics show that our
mining corporations waste a half ton with every ton
mined. Is not such waste criminal, even in a corpora-
tion? Think what a blessing it would mean if this
coal could be put on the market—what a saving to
the nation’s future. All this coal could have been
saved and would have been if these corporations had
invested the capital and care necessary. Of course the
profits from such investment would be remote, but so
long as corporations are allowed the use of these great
resources to make their profits they ought to be com-
pelled to use cautionary measures to protect the
country’s future. The continuation of this waste means
that in .c, hundred years or so we shall be dependent
upon 'other nations for this commodity.
" We are already feeling the loss of our vast timber
supply. The present price of lumber indicates the
danger. The poor man’s hope that some day he may
build a home for his family is dissipated when con-
fronted with the cost of materials. Our lumber supply
is more nearly exhausted than any other of our natural
resources. Scientists place the limit between twenty and
thirty years. Our country, once a vast forest, is now
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	29
looking to other nations for its supply. The eastern
states no longer furnish us with this commodity, and
only a few large forests still remain in the West. That
trees must be chopped down for timber is certain,
but that does not mean they must be wasted with
the recklessness that has prevailed in the past. The
lumberman who plunders the forests of its choicest
products and leaves the rest to rot on the land is robbing
the nation. If it requires a greater investment of capital
to use scientific means—will not the profits to the
future of our land justify this expenditure? Consider
the yearly loss of timber by fire. These fires could,
to a great extent, be prevented by the investment of
one-forth the money it takes to pay the damage they
cause. The future of this industry is being put in
jeopardy to save a little present expense. Many of
our greatest forests have been ruined by private
concerns. But whence have these private owners the
right to use their property to the injury of the nation's
future? Their rights are only a trust which should be
exercised to the ultimate benefit of the nation as well
as their own. Legislation tending to compel the private
owner to respect this trust in the use of the country’s
natural resources would be most beneficial.
Statesmen have asserted with much reason that the
decline of a nation begins with the decline of its
agriculture. Food and clothing are the great necessities
of life. Now these are derived from the soil, and for
them there are no possible substitutes. The broad
plains of fertile lands which have been our country’s
boast are fast being robbed of their productivity by
avaricious and ignorant exploitation. The spirit of
the miner and the lumberman to secure the greatest
present profits from the least investment has taken
possession of the farmer also. With the increased pro-
30
OB THB
ficiency of our agricultural implements lie is driving
the soil to its utmost. He is making enormous present
profits at the expense of the futur.e A few figures
will prove this conclusively. Jkom the year 1870 to
the year 1890 the acreage of improved agricultural
land increased, mostly by virgin soil, from one hundred
and eighty-nine millions to four hundred and fourteen
millions, an increase of one hundred and twenty per
cent. But during that same period the products from
this land increased only ninety-two per cent, a falling
off of at least twenty per cent, and this despite the
increased proficiency of implements, methods, and labor.
Thus it is clear that our land is failing in productivity;
that it is falling off in its ability to supply the nation
with food and clothing. Our lands are not boundless.
Yesterday the farmer could leave his worked-out
farm in the Bast and move to the virgin soil of the West.
Today he finds most of that land already occupied.
Although we have been blessed by nature with a most
fertile soil, ignorance and avarice have abused it until
sterility is feared, and unless this abuse is corrected
this resource too will soon pass away.
Our water power also has been shamefully neglected.
With the preservation of the natural lakes and rivers
in which our country abounds we could store up enough
energy to solve, to a great extent, the coal problem.
One of our government experts declares that the unused
water power in the Appalachian Mountains if harnessed
for the production of electricity would doubly supplant
the use of our coal. Proper care of this water power
would also prevent the frequent and disastrous floods
that devastate great portions of our land, causing
great loss to life and property. This care would mean
not only conservation of a natural resource but pro-
tection of the lives of our people as well.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
31
The nation’s duty is now before us. Will she allow
her resources to be wasted and her people left in want?
Shall we, her citizens, stand idly by and see the wrecking
methods now in vogue continue? Shall we disregard
the rights of our posterity?
There is yet hope. The causes of this prodigality
may be removed. The first step lies in making them
known. Chief among these causes is the natural avarice
.of man, avarice that lives by ignorance and is en-
couraged by conscienceless corporations. Corporations
are undoubtedly necessary to our country and to our
age, but uncontrolled they can be of great injury. This
avarice, this ignorance and the evils of these corpora-
tions in relation to our country’s future, can be solved
by that most powerful agent in the life of any democracy,
public opinion. Public opinion is the sentiment of the
people, the spirit of the times, the standard by which
men and methods are judged, and in our country the
maker of laws. It is to this great force we must look
for the salvation of our resources. A movement is now
on foot to change the present day public opinion, to
make it a factor in upbuilding rather than in wasting
our resources. This movement is conservation. It
aims to educate the miner, the lumberman, the farmer
in the right use of the bountiful gifts of nature to our
land. It is founded on altruism, the same spirit that
^surged in the breast of Columbus, Washington and Hale;
the same that should inspire every lover of his country
to take up arms and defend her on the field of battle.
Our country is now in danger, not from a foreign
enemy but from the waste of her resources by her own
citizens. She calls upon every one of us to protect
her. We can do this by joining the forces of conser-
vation, by helping to create a public opinion thaVwill
make it criminal to waste our wealth. This - can be
32	BUW3TIN OB TUB
effected through the schoolhouse, the press, and the
government. Make the child, the man and the leg-
islator realize their duty and do it. If you need an
incentive look to the Bast. There you will see the
results of our improvidence in the worked-our farms,
the crowded cities and the impoverishment of the
masses. There, too, you hear the cries of unrest sent
up by the armies of the unemployed. Then turn to
the West where you may yet find the fertile fields as
God gave them to us, like those once found in the
Bast, the extensive forests, the abundance of water
power and unworked mines; but there too you will
find the same wasteful methods employed that have
brought poverty on the older portions of the country:
the ignorance of the farmer, the recklessness of the
lumberman and the w'antonness of the miner. The
task of bettering these conditions remains with us.
It is our duty to do our utmost in the great cause of
conservation, in speech, in business, and at the polls.
It is for us to be present-day patriots, living, an
working for the future of our country in whose blessings
we all share. Let us tell the farmer, the miner, the
lumberman and whoever is wasting the resources of
our home-land that he is wrong, that he is robbing
our nation, that he is undoing the work of the patriots
that have bled and died that this nation might live
and prosper, that it might forever be the pride of its
citizens, the hope of the immigrant and the producer
for the world.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
33
II	.—Conservation of Educational Resources.
WILLIAM E. MCGARRY, EL. B.
TO conserve what is good is an essential duty of
civilized society. From the early ages those
things which have been found to be useful and
necessary for the well-being of man have been safely
guarded and handed down to posterity for their benefit.
Thus in this twentieth century we possess all of the
best things of the past. We have the inventions of
former geniuses; we have the writings of Homer,
Virgil and Shakespeare; we have the speeches of
Demosthenes, Cicero and Webster; we have the paint-
ings of Raphael and Van Dyke, we have the sculpture
of Phidias and Michael Angelo; we have the systems
of government of all the nations. These have been left
to us by our ancestors, and we must render them more
perfect and in turn hand them down to our posterity.
This is our binding duty to our fathers and to our sons.
We of the present generation have witnessed the
breach of this duty. In our time men have disobeyed
this binding obligation and have not conserved, as
they should, the necessities of. life. This failure To
abide by the unwritten law of conservation has stirred
many of the leaders of our nation. They have sent forth
the cry of alarm against the wanton waste of our coal,
our timber, our land and the other natural forces.
Millions of dollars’ worth of our material energies have
been utterly lost to humanity. Future generations
were being deprived of what is theirs by the uncon-
scionable methods of men whose every aim is the easy
34
BULLETIN oe the
and hasty acquisition of wealth. The time is over-
ripe for the people to stir themselves and prevent
this devastation. Public opinion must be shaped so
as to end this waste and create a wider appeal for
conservation.
The conservation of the physical energies of a nation
is indeed essential to its well-being, as the preservation
and upbuilding of the physical in man is essential to
his well-being. But splendid physique and fine appear-
ance avail but little if the mind behind the phisique
is bare and uncultivated. ’ We wonder at the well-
trained athlete, the excellency of his stature, his powers
of endurance and his strength. We do more to the man
of well-trained mind; we admire him, we praise him,
we listen to his words and follow his example; we
proclaim him the highest type of man. And so it is
with nations. We are led to marvel at their great
physical powers, but we follow the leadership only
of intellectual and moral greatness.
“Bducation is to the mind of man what scuplture
is to the block of marble.” Rough and unhewn, the
marble means but little, and its value is of no conse-
quence. But let the chisel of the master work on it,
and behold it stands out in bold relief, an object of
wonder and amazement. Bducation is the chisel of
the master which makes man the “no" lest work of
God.” By education man is lifted .up from the depths
of ignorance and bigotry. He is given a vision to dis-
criminate between truth and error. He is brought to
a realization of what is good and really worth while.
He co-operates in the work of God and approaches
closer to perfection—the goal of mankind.
Bducation is the foremost element of civilization. It
is the factor that separates the leaders from the masses,
and as applied to nations the same proves true. That
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
35
nation which is not among the foremost in educational
pursuits is not among the foremost of the world's powers.
That nation whose educational resources are not being
conserved is doomed to be displaced. And by the
conservation of a nation’s educational resources I
mean the preservation against waste and ruthless loss,,
the protection against decay, of the power alike of the
individual and the people at large to be educated, as
well as the material means by which this may be
effected.
We in America are accustomed to think complacently
of our school system. We are quite satisfied that the
system of education in vogue here is of the highest
kind, that it is matchless, that we are doing more for
the furtherance of education than any other nation.
This statement is lamentably true if we consider only
the expenditures and not the results. In comparison
with all the other nations of the world we spend a vast
amount more for education, but do we reap benefits
commensurate with the expense?
We lavish our money on the building of schools whose
architecture and furnishings are the best. But sym-
metry of architecture and elegant equipment do not
make the school, as excellence of stature and becoming
clothes do not make the man. It is what is behind these
that is the sum total of good or evil. Bnter the class-
room and what do you find? At its head is the poorest-
paid class of public servants in the country—the school
teacher. The average salary—not the lowest—paid
to the school teacher is $400.00 a year. At the head of
our schools we should have men of learning and char-
acter, proper types to inspire the young. But do we
delude ourselves that such men can be secured at a
salary of four hundred dollars a year or ten dollars
a week? Is there any business man who will honestly
36
BUL^^IN OK THE
assert that a man earning such a wage at a time like
this, when merit gets its price elsewhere, is likely to
be a competent and proper person to teach the youth
of our land? Can they whose existence is from hand
to mouth, who are engaged in a continual struggle to
sustain life, can they be full of inspiring thoughts and
high ideals? Can they urge the men of tomorrow to
go forth and conquer? Can they raise up to ambitious
youth lofty aims and ends to be acquired? Will they
be able to teach high and lofty principles of life; or
will they not infect the heart and mind with the
.sorrow and sadness in which their lives are entirely
wrapt?
What then are the results that we gain from the
expenditure of over four millions of dollars for education
in our common schools? Of the eighteen millions of
boys and girls who attend the common schools in our
country a little over five per cent go to the high schools,
and nearly ninety-five per cent are sent out into the
world to earn a living in the shops, the factories and
the field of business. Their school days end at, and
often before, the completion of the common school.
The boy is made to hustle about in the busy marts of
trade and take the world as he finds it. He is not
given an opportunity to select any favorite field of
employment, but must take whatever presents itself.
He learns about the world at large only that which he
can pick up, which in the majority of cases is to operate
a machine or perform some task not involving the
•operation of the mind.
Of the five per cent who go on to the high school
the great majority are forced to seek blind alley em-
ployment,—with no prospects, no future, with all ambi-
tions stifled, all ideals crushed, they begin their humdrum
existence. One fifth of those who attend the high schools
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
go further to the normal school, the college and the
university. But one per cent of all the children who
attend school go further than the high school and
only five per cent go that far. This is a lamentable
fact in a country where equal opportunities to all is-
the boast of the nation. It is democracy’s boast, but
it is hollow and meaningless. It provides equal oppor-
tunities to all who can go on to college and to the
university, but these are less than one per cent of our
population.
In our country we have over 6,180,000 people w’ho-
can neither read nor write any language. Over ten
per cent of our people are illiterates. Some of these,
it is true, are foreigners. But surely our own people-
are the more to blame. In face of this fact do we wonder
at the spread of vice and crime? Are we alarmed at
the grip that discontent, socialism and anarchy has.
on our people, when ignorance is so strong a power?'
It is so powerful because we do not fight it with its-
antidote—knowledge.
Surely this illiteracy shows a dead waste of our
intellectual energies. Man’s mind resembles the soil,,
if left barren and untilled it produces nothing but
weeds; tilled and sown it brings forth an abundant
crop. Now ignorance is the weed that is fast choking
out the good, and bringing forth in abundance dis-
satisfaction and dissension. Ignorance belongs z not
alone to the illiterates but to those who have attended
the common school and the high school and even to*
those who have attended the colleges and universities..
It is the part of those who fail to apply their intellects,
to the practical problems of life. It is the lot of those
who, during their school days, have spent their time
in undue attention to athletics and the so-called social
life. And not a few must claim ignorance because of
38
BULLETIN OF THB
the faulty methods in our schools, with their fads of
education. Illiteracy 4s a waste of our intellectual
power and must be blotted out. Poorly paid and
incompetent men at the head of our schools, impractical
methods of instruction, and alley way employment is
a waste. If our national life is to have a firm basis of
intellectual power these abuses must be remedied and
at once.
How many of our people are there today who are
uneducated and in whom there may lurk a genius?
Truly we are a nation of “mute, inglorious Miltons.”
The same power exists today that existed two thousand
years ago. Geniuses belong to no one age; they exist
today as they did yesterday, but they must be brought
forth by the application of mental power. This must
be used-, not permitted to lie hidden and waste away.
In this respect the mind resembles the organs >of the
body. If physical powers are left unused, the body
•does not grow in strength and aptitude, but used, they
become among the most valuable assets that man
possesses. Who can estimate the number of geniuses,
philosophers, and heroes who now lie hidden in ig-
norance, but whose minds if touched by the light of
education might awaken from their slumber to make
the owner a leader and a blessing to all mankind?
Think what our country would have lost had not
Lincoln, the savior of his country, as a boy on the
farm, and the canal, given over his spare time to the
pursuit of knowledge.
We are not applying the mind power of our youths
to the best advantage. Our educational system has
been described as a mere mechanical process through
which our children pass and acquire a knowledge of
reading, writing and ciphering. They are taught the
cunning and quickness similar to that given an animal.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
39
They are taught only what deals with the material
things of life. They are taught that the acquisition
of wealth is the scales in which success is measured.
They are not taught that man is a being of infinite
sensibility and impressionability. They are not taught
to believe, hope and love. They are not taught the
truths of Christianity and the lessons of fraternity.
What is the remedy to check this wanton waste of
our intellectual power?. Education. We must turn
every engine of civic and political influence toward
the building up of our schools. We must enact and
enforce legislation which will compel every boy and
girl to attend and complete the common school edu-
cation. "We must demand the proper enforcement of
our child-labor laws. We must make the high schools
practical as is done in Germany. There the boy or girl
who finishes the common school is not thrown out into
the world to earn a living. If they can not go on to
high school they enter a trade or industrial school.
There they choose that line of work for which they
are most fitted. They become experts in the field of
their own choice. They are paid a salary for the time
spent in such schools and the labor which might have
been a drudgery becomes a pleasure.
This is democracy’s boast which we must make
good. Such a system will provide equal opportunities
to all, to the genius or the ordinary man, and will
increase the efficiency and comfort of the world. In
justice we can do no less. We can become a true de-
mocracy only when our system of schools offers equal
opportunities to all.
We must put men at the head of our schoolrooms
who are competent, men who will inspire the men of
tomorrow, which will mean a better citizenship a
stronger democracy and higher social morals. To secure
40
bulletin of the
more competent men and to run the machinery of
education with more economy and to produce better
results, we must raise the standing and the salary of
our school teachers. With this increase will come the
influx of better men who have shunned the teaching
profession for more lucrative positions.
To this end men in every standing in life must be
ready to lend a helping hand. The men of wealth can
not have a better field in which to invest their money.
In giving to education a man is assisting his fellow-man
in the most substantial way by granting him a better
chance of success and of living a happy life. He is
elevating the standard of efficiency in the nation. He
is bettering the citizenship of the nation. He is abating
the power of ignorance by increasing that knowledge.
He is wiping out bigotry, delinquency and crime.
What more could a man hope to do for his fellow-man
his country and his God!
Upon those of meagre means there also rests the
duty to educate. The father who does not educate
his children in the highest manner possible within his
power does an irreparable injury to the child and to
society. History is replete with examples of geniuses
who have sprung to light only because their parents
in needy circumstances have made sacrifices for the
education of their children. What joy and satisfaction
belongs to the father and mother who have denied
themselves the luxuries and oftentimes the very needs
of life that their children might be educated and grow
to be leaders. The mother of the present Pope, Pius
X., was even forced to sell her little farm in order
to keep young Guiseppe at school. She gave up all
that her son might be a leader, and for what end? To
see him rise from an humble peasant boy to a throne
mightier than Caesar’s. All of us in our experiences have
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	41
known of many like examples of the self-sacrifice of
parents rewarded a thousandfold.
To the school we must look to find the men of to-
morrow. In the youth of today rests the hope of our
country. In them the nation reads her destiny. With
them lies the duty to take advantage of all the oppor-
tunities for betterment. £ They must invest them-
selves with lofty ambitions and high ideals. To' the
youth of talents there is no human wall insurmountable,
no field of industry which he can not master if armed
with education. He must be prepared to give up the
trifling pleasures and luxuries of life, and aspire to
the noblest work of mankind—progress in human
development, personal and national. This is his duty,
a duty whose reward reaches beyond the power of
money to give or take away, for it lifts him and his
fellows farther toward the shining heights of that
perfection, which is the destiny of man.
42
BULI/BTIN OB THB
III	.—Conservation of Our Moral Resources.
PATRICK A. BARRY, A’ B.
DBVBLOPMENT is the law of nature. Both
in organic and in inorganic life, the lack of
development leads to corruption. The seed that
fails to grow decays. If the pure water of a sylvan
spring be not continually refreshed it becomes foul.
So it is with nations. The nation that ceases to grow
and renew itself must sooner or later disintegrate.
By the acquisition of material wealth, the encourage-
ment of intellectual efforts, and the pursuit of the
fine arts, a nation may rise to the foremost rank among
civilized powers. But material wealth and power,
the achievements and renown of learning are in vain,
unless the whole receives a spiritual seasoning in the
united efforts of all to fulfil the higher purpose of in-
dividual and national existence. Tor nations, like
individuals, are truly great only when they are morally
great, and the nation that is not morally great must
eventually perish. We are at last awakening to the
necessity of conserving our material resources. We
have always realized in a way the need of intellectual
development. All concede that mental training is
good and necessary. But do we as a people realize
the supreme importance of the moral life?
Bvery man has an endowment of moral power—■
power to be good and to do good. It is this power that
makes him not merely more than the brute, but “little
less than the angels.” To the proper development of
this power is due the perfection of man. It is the use
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
43
of this power that' makes the saint; it is the abuse of it
that makes the criminal. As truly as there is in every
man the power to grow physically and intellectually,
there is in every man the power to grow in the moral
life. Nations are made up of individuals, and it is
only by due development of the moral energies of its
people that any nation can attain to true greatness.
By the conservation of the moral resources of our
country is meant not mere preservation: it implies
development to the fullest extent of all the moral
possibilities existing in the people.' That there is need
of conserving these moral resources no one who observes
can{ doubt. The large number of criminals in our
prisons, for example, ought not to be there. They are
sad illustrations of the waste of our moral resources.
We have in this country a number of national vices,
any one of which would suffice to wreck a great state.
Dishonesty is with us a besetting sin. Krom the street-
car conductor, who fails to turn in all the fares, to the
monopoly magnate in his office, from the policeman
on his “beat” to the mayor in the city hall, from the
youthful devastation of the apple orchard to the whole-
sale embezzlement of the bank-teller, from the lie
of the child to the perjury of the government official,
in all walks of life, in every station, whether high or
low, dishonesty is alarmingly prevalent. In murders
and suicides we rank first among civilized nations;
in divorce we are second only to Japan.
Divorce threatens to undermine the whole social
fabric by destroying the reverence for marriage and the
purity of the home. We have, on the one hand, socialists
crying for free-love; on the other, the attempts of
numerous agents to undo the work of the Creator—•
attempts to put asunder what God has joined together..
Rational love is giving way to lust; the sanctity of
44
bulletin or THE
marriage to the animality of free-love doctrine.
Every day we read about men who, too cowardly
to bear the trials of life, compass their own destruction,
unmindful of the terrible awakening. Men are forgetting
that to God alone belongs the power over life and death,
and that self-destruction means the destruction of the
soul. Our record of homicides is appalling. We talk
of the Italian, the struggling, ignorant Italian, and
associate him with the stiletto. But for every hour of
the day a murder is done in the United States. With
all our civilization we have in this country five times
as many murders as are committed in Italy, the so-
called land of the stiletto.
Divorce and murder and suicide should be sufficient
to inspire us with fear for our country. But these are
not our only faults. We have also lost much of the old-
time respect for authority both in the home and in
public life. We have the unruly boy who settles all
matters for himself, and the coy young lady who conceals
from her mother the books she reads. We have con-
scienceless avarice and greed, making the poor even
more poor, until they seek refuge in the absurdities of
socialism. The world is awake to the evils of a social
life, which permits the oppression of the weak by the
strong, and allows the workman to be crushed by the
capitalist. Socialism promises remedies for these evils;
but socialism, whatever its pretenses to economic
merit, is immoral, and hence can not help man for
this life or the next. These evils are the result of the
waste of our moral powers. How can they be remedied?
How can the moral energies of the American people
be conserved?
“Whatever we wish to see introduced into the life
of a nation,” Von Humboldt has well said, “must be
introduced into its schools.” National evils can be
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	45
eradicated only by the correct formation of the hearts
and minds of the young upon whom the future of the
country rests. Let us then form characters and build
strong wills, as we train fine minds, for national evils
and grossness must be dispelled by the noble-minded
and the strong-hearted. With perpetual and increasing
wickedness we are wasting our moral resources, and
our only hope lies in the introduction of correct principles
into the schools.
Archbishop Spalding has defined education to be
“the symmetrical development of mind and body and
soul, with a view to leading man to completeness of
life.” And if, as he says, “God is in act all that the
finite may become, and the effort to grow in strength,
knowledge, and virtue springs from a divine impulse/’
the development of the heart is the most important
part of education, for the simple reason that the spiritual
in man is superior to the physical or mental.
I do not undervalue the intellectual element of
education. But the development of the mind is neither
the only nor the best fruit of real education. Indeed,
great mental ability without moral power as a director
is almost sure to prove a curse rather than a blessing,
a curse to the individual who possesses it and a curse
to the society in which that individual lives. To make
mere mentality the sole end of education; as has been
done in the secularization of the schools, is violently
irrational. Man is distinctly a moral being. He is
endowed not only with physical and mental power
but with a moral faculty which is his highest power,
and genuine education must be primarily concerned with
the development of that power.
The authors of our public school system have built
upon the very false theory that mere mental training
is all that is needed to make good Americans. Brom
46
BULLETIN OB THB
a prolonged experience they are now realizing what
should have been evident to them from the beginning—
that moral training is a necessary part of education.
But now they are venturing upon another experiment
which is sure to prove as futile as the first. They
propose to supply the deficiency in the school program
by introducing courses of what they term “ethical
culture,” a science of morality without God, a morality
without any reference to religion. It seems that to
them morality is little more than a code of utilitarian
rules of conduct which are conducive to the success
of the individual and the welfare of society. They
admit that morality is essential to right living, but
they have yet to learn the plain truth both of reason
and of history,—that religion is the essential basis of
morality.
All the philosophies of men have never yet furnished
a sufficient incentive for right living. All the “ethical
culture,” all the “independent morality,” all the fine-
arts, have failed to subdue an evil thought or a pas-
sionate desire. “Ethical culture” may convince a
man that immorality is detrimental to the individual
and to society, but it can not persuade men to be moral
in the time of temptation. You may teach men that
honesty is the best policy, that stealing is an offence
against society; you may tell them that intemperance
and debauchery mean loss of reputation, that lying
must eventually destroy all social and commercial
intercourse,—you may teach them what you will on
the ground that society or the individual will be the
loser, but you have failed to offer an efficient motive
for righteousness. Such a motive can be found only
in religion. Nothing but religion can conserve either
a man or a nation from degradation—religion which
persuades men that their conduct in this life bears.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
47’
consequences that reach beyond the grave, that they
are subject to God, to disobey whom is death, to love,
whom is life.	/
True moral education, then, apart from religion is
impossible. The secularization of the schools is based
upon the fearfully false notion that there is no connec-
tion, at least no necessary connection, between morality
and religion. To this pernicious error may be traced
the general waste of moral energy; to it may be traced
most of the immorality of the present day. Life without
religion is little more than animal life. The theory of
morality without God receives in practice its natural
illustration in outright immorality.
The founders of our country understood that religion,
is necessary to the individual, and just as necessary
to the state; they understood that without the restraints
of religion men can not be good citizens. But we have-
thought differently. We have disregarded the solemn-
warning of Washington who, in his “Farewell Address,”
said: “Of all the dispositions and habits which lead
to political prosperity, religion and morality are indis-
pensable supports.” And he exhorted the Americans
of that day to avoid in particular “the supposition that
morality can be maintained without religion.” If
such a warning was needed at that time how much
more necessary is it in our own day when irreligion and
immorality are so general.
Thus it is clear that the secularization of the schools
is a grievous mistake. Rabbi Hirsch of Chicago ob-
served not long ago that “the greatest failure of the
nineteenth century has been the failure of education.
The eighteenth century closed with a belief in the
efficiency of education. The best minds of the day
seemed to have dreams of universal education, which
they called a panacea for our social ills. We have largely
bulletin of the
2J-8
realized' those dreams, and have discovered that the
education of the head alone can not satisfy all the
hopes of the philosophers of the eighteenth century.
The training of the mind alone has not lessened the
numbers of criminals, but has. been more dangerous.
Our public schools may give an idiot a mind, but they
do not give him character. They give him the increased
power to act, but not the moral force to act with
moderation. In educating the head without regard to
the heart and soul, the public schools are failing in
their mission.” The failure of the twentieth century
will be the failure of the effort to educate men in morals
without the aid of religion. Morality can not be suc-
cessfully divorced from religion, because by nature they
are inseparable. If by education is meant “the sym-
metrical development of body, mind, and will,” if by
education is meant the fitting of man for completeness
of life, then the education of the secular schools is
defective in the most important element. The work of
schools is unavailing in the struggle to conserve our
moral forces. We can not make men good by merely
giving them knowledge. We can never get the results
we hope for from a system of education which ignores
God and religion. If the end of man is God, if it is
in God that “we live and move and have our being,”
if education should lead man to complete life, then
education should be first, last, and always religious.
Leave God out of education and the unavoidable
result is anarchy,—anarchy in thought, anarchy in
morals, anarchy in life.
*
Would we conserve the moral forces of our country?
Would we actualize the moral possibilities inherent in
every young soul? Do we long to see America great'
and powerful? The heart of the American people beats
true. The signal has been given and champions are
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME ’
49
responding on every side. A vast- army of men and
women, clergymen and laymen, learned priests, gentle
nuns, and holy monks, scientists and philosophers,
leaders in every rank and profession, are rallying to
the needs of a nation, and to the cry, “For God and for
Country.” At their feet I see a soul-hungry nation,
learning the true meaning of life, the great possibilities
of existence, and the great fact that all men are brothers
and God the Father of all. They teach the beauty of
learning and culture and the vital importance of moral
obligation. They teach the superiority of mind to body,
of soul to intellect. The advocates of religious education
do not aim to develop the soul and dwarf the mind.
They realize the great truth that man is neither mere
matter nor mere spirit, but a wonderful composition of
both—body and soul, and their aim is to perfect both.
Such a system of education must be true because
it is true to nature. Story has it that one day as Michael
Angelo was carrying to his studio a large, unshapely
stone, a friend asked him what he was going to do
with that crude block. “ There is an angel in that stone,”
said the great artist, “and I am going to get him out.”
And this is what the religious educator proposes to do—
to draw out the angel that is hidden in every child.
Let education be not the poor science of making a
living, but the noble art of making a life. It is only
through education of this kind that we may hope to
conserve the moral resources of our country. When
all Americans will respond to the cause of true education,
then may we hope to free our country from the evils
with which she is oppressed, then may we hope that
she will become and remain a truly great nation, great
not only in wealth and power, and art and ..science,
but, above all, great in the sanctity and virtue of her
people—great before God.
50
BULLETIN ob thb
Trusting Love: Class Poem.
WAlABR DUNCAN, PH. B.
THU mother’s love is sweeter, purer, far
Than all the passions that have governed men;
So full of trust that an ingrate may not mar
Its simple faith; for it believes again,
And patient, asks for no return but love.
The mother’s every thought is for her son;
She gives him all, and like the stars above
Shines on his field of strife. His battles won,
Her heart rejoices much, and should he fail
Her sorrow in her love will find a veil.
But mothers change with years, and children, too,
Nor may they circumvent the ways of life;
And though their loving hearts beat always true,
They are but human, and in toil and strife
Must find the path to peace. With growing years
Her sweet protection must his manhood leave;
But even then, if he to truth adheres,
Her heart upon his future ne’er will grieve,
And thus, the spirit of the mother guides
The son, and in his heart of hearts abides.
As tenderly the mother rules the child,
Unselfish, patient, loving, always true,
Our Alma Mater, with correction mild,
Has led us, taught us, loved us more than due.
We are her sons in whom have been instilled
Her truest lessons, and whose youthful hearts
With ardent love and gratitude afe filled.
And now, as son from home and mother parts,
We part from her; we go beyond her walls
Reluctantly yet firmly—duty calls.	,
O may we in the days that are to come,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	51
When storms shall strike the strongest hearts with fear,
When souls of men to evil ways succumb,
0 may we then be firm and persevere
In paths of righteousness! 0 may the thought
Of these sweet days—these blessed years—remain
To guide us, though we be with care distraught!
Thus her ideals we ever shall retain.
The lessons and the light of Notre Dame
Our spirits shall inspire, our hearts inflame.
52
BULLETIN OB THB
Valedictory.
CYRIL J. CURRAN, A. B.
IT is inevitable in the lives of men that they leave
the enchanted land of youth and enter upon the
duties of maturity; but when a man realizes that
he is in truth forsaking those happy days, and facing
a world in which he may find contentment or dis-
illusionment,—he knows not which,—he is quickened
with a sorrow that reaches the very heart of him.
There are men to whom less has been given than to us,
whom necessity has forced into serious things of life
before their maturity;—to them that moment comes
only after they have been hardened by their experience,
and sometimes it never comes. But is it come to us
tonight, with all its suggestiveness. We have lived
ideal lives so far, full of the joys of youth, without
worries, wanting for nothing that might enrich us in
mind and heart. We have had access to all that is beau-
tiful in the world, while the mean and sordid and un-
lovely have been carefully hidden from us. That has
been our preparation,, and now we are ready for what
is.to follow.
We saw it hastening towards us,—this great break,
but we steadfastly refused to think of it, lest it be an
obsession in the. last fading hours of our college days.
Now it is here, and we are prepared to meet it. But
the college man is never quite the same after he leaves
the campus; he has torn out of his life some of the
sweetest things that he can ever know, and though
he commit them sacredly to his memory, and treasure

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
them there always, they can never be true in fact again.
In hardly a day’s time this class of 1912 will be
divided forever. These rooms and halls, and the old
haunts on the campus, by the lakes, in the fields and
woods,—everything we have known and loved . at
Notre Dame, will have gone out of our lives. Most of
us will never meet again, unless chance throw our
paths together somewhere. We may return to Notre
Dame at times, but never as we are now. The band
of youths that laughed its way into the midst of Notre
Dame activities in the Nall of 1908 is met within these
precincts for the last time tonight. And this is a real
good-bye,—a farewell which will extend through the
years of our lives and in which the only hope for complete
reunion is in heaven above. It is hard to go, for if
ever there have been real friends, such we have been.
A few weeks ago we heard Archbishop Riordan telling
us of the old days,, when he was a student. Nothing
could be more touching than his references to his old
teachers, every one of whom he numbered among the
departed. He was alone in his old home, with even
the old buildings gone. He saw a thousand faces, and
found in them welcome and sympathy but he looked
in vain for the old friends, for the familiar faces for
which he longed. In just a few years it will be the same
for us, perhaps, and that is why we find it so hard to go.
But if there is anything that Notre Dame has taught
us, it is to be resigned. It would be pleasant for us to
stay longer; doubtless we are all wishing that we could;
but it is time to leave, and we will, as bravely, as we
can. These beautiful days have meant too much for
us to give way to the maudlin. We are men, now, and
we can face our departure with hearts as brave as ever
heart was in June in the years gone by.
At this moment we have no desire to analyze our
%
54
BULLETIN oe the
emotions. We are content to accept them as they are
and to let them sway us as they will, that we may think
of them tenderly at a later day when we shall have gone
on to other service. But we can not forget, even now,
the kindness and the sacrifices which have contributed
to our being here under these peculiar circumstances.
First of all, we look to the good fathers and mothers,
who, though their hearts misgave them at our departure,
entrusted us to Notre Dame because they loved us and
wanted us to taste of the benefits which only Notre
Dame can give. To thank them with graceful words,
and then to turn our thoughts elsewhere would savor
of insincerity, and of that there is nothing in us tonight,
nor ever has been, as we believe. We are grateful,—
let them read it in our eyes, and know that our hearts
are full of them. We are going back to our homes with
them; the little family circles are made whole again,
and we are very happy.
But there is another family circle, in which we have
been the children, and these kind professors and priests
the parents, which is broken tonight by our departure
and which never can be whole again. It has been a
big family, but well ordered and unified by common
ties of love. We have been as familiar with our teachers
as with our parents, and we have looked to them for
advice and encouragement as confidently. For these
men, devoted forever to Notre Dame, who have made
it at once a university and a real home, who have trained
our minds to act with precision, who have inspired us
to emulation by their moral goodness, we have an
affection as true as the son for the father. And so,
you see, we are leaving home again, but with no delight-
ful anticipations for vacations to come, and with no
prospects for a final return.
We will say good-bye, Notre Dame. To us, who know
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
55
you so well, you are a life, a love, a memory. We need
not ask for your blessing, for we have received it every
day of our presence here. We thank you. God bless
you! Good-bye I	.

buuwn or TH#
Sixty-Eighth Commencement
DRCTURE BY DR. MAX PAM.
The sixty-eighth. Commencement exercises were
opened Saturday night with a notable address by
Max Pam, LL. D., of Chicago, founder of the new
School of Journalism at the University. A large audience
of distinguished guests, alumni, students and relatives
of students, listened with deep interest to Dr. Pam’s
discussion of the modern newspaper. A newspaper
is, he said, essentially a commercial enterprise, but
differs from other enterprises in its power to influence
public opinion, and hence the necessity of its being
altruistic and patriotic in its purposes. The influence
which a newspaper may have on the home, for good
or for bad, was.given special emphasis.
It was a remarkable address, high in its concept
of the power and duty of the press, and while it failed
not to point out the possible misuse of that power
it was, too, full of confidence in the good that may
be accomplished and voiced an ardent loyalty to one
of our noblest institutions. Particular point was lent
Dr. Pam’s remarks from the fact that he had given
his principles more than oral utterance; by his es-
tablishment of a chair of journalism in this University
he had given them practical and abiding support.
Dr. Pam was frequently interrupted by the applause
of the sympathetic audience, and at the close of his
ringing address received the gratified and gratifying
cheers of those whom he chose to call his fellow-students.
Dr. Pam received the honorary degree of Doctor of
Taws from Notre Dame in 1910.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
57
The full text of Dr. Pam’s address appears elsewhere
in this issue. '
PONTIRICAD MASS AND SERMON.
«»
The Commencement pontifical high mass was
celebrated Sunday in the Sacred Heart Church by the
Right Reverend Herman Joseph Alerding, D. D.,
Bishop of Fort Wayne. The class of 1912 in their
class gowns attended the mass in a body, together
with the members of the Faculty dressed in their
official robes. The President of the University acted
as archpriest. Father O’Donnell and Father Burke
officiated as deacon and subdeacon, and the honorary
deacons were Rev. Fathers Walsh and Schumacher.
Rev. William Connor was master of ceremonies, and
was assisted by Mr. Dwight Cusick, a member of the
graduating class.
The Baccalaureate sermon was given by the Rev.
Francis W. Howard, Jdb. D., general secretary of the
Catholic Bducational Association, Columbus, Ohio.
The significant feature of Dr. Howard’s sermon was
a philosophical discussion of progress, the counter-
sign of the twentieth century. The theme was well
developed, the method of treatment was masterly.
The appropriateness of the subject to the occasion
was made manifest by an exposition of the influence
the graduate is to exercise in the true progressive move-
ment. The discourse throughout was marked by
Thoughtfulness, and showed a rare gift of expression.
The pontifical blessing was given at the end of mass.
AEUMNI REUNION.
The fifth regular meeting of the Alumni Association
of the University of Notre Dame was called to order
by the president, Daniel P. Murphy, in Brownson
study-hall, Sunday afternoon, June 16, at half-past
58
BUIyWTlN OB TH#
four o’clock. The minutes of the previous meeting
were read and approved. The president of the asso-
ciation then announced that he had been informed
by the Reverend John Cavanaugh, President of the
University, that the class of 1912 had successfully
passed their examinations and were eligible for member-
ship. On motion they were admitted to the meeting.
Francis O’Shaughnessy then moved that a pledge of
fidelity to the constitution of the United States and
to the principles of the Alumni Association be ad-
ministered to the class of 1912. An amendment to
this motion so as to include all members present in
the pledge was carried, and Mr. O’Shaughnessy was
deputed to administer the pledge. This was done in
a most solemn manner. The report of the treasurer
was then read and approved. It showed a balance
on hand of $2,584.10. Letters and telegrams from
members who could not attend the meeting were read.
The names of members of the association who had
died since the last regular meeting were announced,
They include Edgar Armistead Milner, B. S. ’81;
M. S. ’11, died July 15, 1911, at Portland, Oregon,
Maurice J. Cassidy, LL. B. ’91, died October 18, 19x1,
South Bend, Indiana; Ralph Chester Dimmick, LL- B.
’11, died October 21, 1911, at Portland, Oregon; John
Louis Romana, C. E. ’11, died December, 1911, at
Arequipa, Peru, South America; Patrick J. Dougherty,
LL. B. ’79, died January 21, 1912, at Chicago, Illinois;
Rev. Hugh O’Gara McShane, A. M. ’94, LL. D. ’95,
died February 5, 1912, at Chicago, Illinois; William
Keegan Gardiner A. B. ’04, died March, 1912, at
Brooklyn, New York; John Francis McHugh, A. B.
’72, A. M. ’74, died March 12, 1912, at Fort Wayne,
Indiana; Rev. Anthony Messmann, A. B. ’67, A. M. ’69
died May 22, 1912, La Porte, Indiana. A committee
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
to draft resolutions of condolence was then appointed
by the chair to consist of Dr. John Berteling, George
Burkitt, and Bdward Cleary.
Announcement was then made of the success of
the different athletic teams and of the debating
teams of this year. A committee consisting of Dr.
John Lilly, Judge Joseph J. Cooke and Henry Wurzer
was appointed to draft resolutions of congratulations.
The election of officers for the ensuing year then
followed. Those chosen were: honorary president,
Rev. Denis A. Clarke, ’70, Columbus, Ohio; president,
Honorable William P. Higgins, ’03, Boston, Massa-
chusetts; vice-presidents, Joseph J. Sullivan, ’01,
Chicago, Illinois; Clement C. Mitchell, ’02, Chicago,
Illinois; Lewis J. Salmon, ’05, Syracuse, New York;
John P. Shea, ’06, ITolyoke, Massachusetts; John
C. Tully, ’11, Chicago, Illinois; Russell G. Linn, ’12,
Detroit, Michigan; secretary, Rev. William A. Moloney,
'C. S. C., Notre Dame, Indiana; treasurer, Honorable
Warren A. Cartier, ’87, Ludington, Michigan; trustees
for two years, 1912-1914, Thomas A. Dailey, ’74,
Adrian, Michigan; Thomas A. Medley, ’98, Owensboro,
Kentucky; Harry G. Hogan, ’04, Port Wayne, Ind.
As the time was nearing the hour set for dinner,
the president called on the Honorable Timothy B.
Howard to take the chair. The following old students
who pursued collegiate studies in the University but
did not receive degrees were then elected as members:
Stewart Graham, Chicago; Joseph J. Kilkenny,
Washington, D. C.; Dr. J. Plynn, Washington, D. C.;
A. Mead Prichard, Charleston, W. Virginia; ' P. C.
Prichard, Huntington, W. Virginia; Leo J. Cleary,
Grand Rapids, Mich. It was then moved that a special
number of the Scholastic to be known as the “Alumni
Number” be issued the first week in April, to contain
6o
BUU^TIN OB THp
articles written by the alumni and most of all to
contain news of members of the association. The
motion was carried, and the Rev/ Charles L. O’Donnell,
C. S. C., was elected editor. Attention was then
called to the fact that the funds of the association
were not earning as much as they might for the asso-
ciation. Both the retiring treasurer and the incoming
treasurer expressed the wish that the funds be taken
from their own savings bank where they were earning
the usual rate of interest on deposit and be invested
in securities, which would bring in a higher rate of
interest. On motion, the treasurer was requested to
communicate with the board of trustees as to the
proper investment of these funds. The meeting then
adjourned.
The above is a matter-of-fact account of the pro-
ceedings of the alumni meeting as they must be
recorded on the dignified pages of the secretary’s
minute book. How inadequate the report is to re-
present what really occurred will be plain to any
alumnus who has ever attended one of these same
meetings. “Parliamentary?” Not at all. “According
to Hoyle?” Not in the least. But a delightful hour
and a half of exquisite fun and fooling of old boys
who can be so-wisely gay and so gaily wise as to make
of sober business a profitable recreation and yet get
the wood sawed.
“The following members of the Association were
present at the Commencement,” says the official report,
but no list of names can carry half the inspiration and
joy of bumping into one old pal in the flesh. And the
old pals were, here, living and lively.
Prancis X. Ackermann, ’04; Bdward R. Adelsperger,
’90; Dr. John B. Berteling, ’80; Rev. William A.
Bolger, C. S. C., ’07; Henry B. Brown, ’02; Paul K.

V	UNIVMSRITY OF NOTRIi DAMF	61
Barsaloux, ’n; Leo F. Buckley, ’n; George W.
Burkitt, Jr., ’02; Rev. Thomas. E. Burke, C. S. C., ’07;
Rev. Joseph H. Burke, C. S. C., ’04; Francis P. Burke,
’03; Jose A. Caparo, ’08; Rev. J. Leonard Carrico,
C. S. C., ’03; Warren A. Cartier, ’87; Dezera A. Cartier,
’92; Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., ’90; Edward P.
Cleary, ’09; J. Leo Coontz, ’07; Joseph J. Cooke, ’94;
Edward K. Delana, ’n; Francis L. Derrick, ’08; Rev.
Charles L. Doremus, C. S. C., ’06; James W. Ely, ’11;
Thomas H. Ford, ’n; Gallitzin A. Farabaugh, ’04;
Harold P. Fisher, ’06; Rev. Paul J. Foik, C. S. C., ’07;
Rev. James J. French, C. S. C., ’90; Stewart Graham,
’12; Rev. Cornelius J. Hagerty, C. S. C., ’06; Rt. Rev.
T. F. Hickey, ’03; James F. Hines, ’09; Thomas M.
Hoban, ’99; Harry G. Hogan, ’04; Timothy E. Howard,
’62; William J. Hoynes, ’77; Rev. Thomas P. Irving,
C. S. C., ’04; Vitus G. Jones, ’02; Maximilian J. St.
George, ’08; Byron V. Kanaley, ’04; Rev. Francis
Kelley, ’07; George H. Kelly, ’02; Leroy J. Keach, ’08;
John H. Kuhle, ’11; Dr. John M. Lilly, ’01; Robert E.
Lynch, ’03; Daniel L. Madden, ’06; John F. McNulty,
’n; Justin J. Moloney, ’n; Rev. Joseph A. Maguire,
C. S. C., ’96; Edward J. Maurus, ’93; Thomas A. Medley,
’98; Martin H. Miller, ’10; Clement C. Mitchell, ’02;
Emil V. Molle, ’10; Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C.,
. ’90; Very Rev. A. Morrissey, C. S. C., ’78; Thomas D.
Mott, ’95; Daniel P. Murphy, ’95; Martin J. McCue,
’79; William E. McGarry, ’n; Rev. George J. Mc-
Namara, C. S. C., ’04; Rev. Julius Nieuwland, C. S. C.,
’99; Very Rev. Francis O’Brien, ’95; Rev. Michael
Oswald, C. S. C., ’98; Daniel J. O’Connor, ’05; Rev.
John T. O’Connell, ’06; Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell,
C. S. C., ’06; William J. Onahan, ’76; Philip B. O’Neill,
’01; Francis O’Shaughnessy, ’00; Guillermo Patterson,
’11; Hon. Max Pam, ’10; Varnum A, Parish, ’08; Dr.
62
BULLETIN OB THB
Francis J. Powers, ’94; Robert B. Proctor, ’04; Rudolph.
O. Probst, ’11; Rev. Michael A. Quinlan, C. S. C.,
’93; Jesse H. Roth., ’10; Robert R. Shenk, ’11; Rev.
Matthew' A. Schumacher, C. S. C., ’99; John F. Shea,
’06; Dudley M. Shively, ’92; Joseph J. Sullivan, ’01;
Dr. Thomas J. Swantz, ’04; Rev. M. T. Szalewski,
C. S. C., ’01; John C. Tully, ’n; Jesse B. Vera, ’n;
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, C. S. C., ’03; Orrin A. White,
’02; John B. Worden,’05; Henry Wurzer,’98; Maurice
D. Kirby, ’94.
ABUMNI BANQUET.
©
The banquet followed immediately after the meeting,
and nearly two hundred of the old boys were in the
east dining-room to join in the gayety. Notre Dame
enthusiasm and loyalty made merry the entire evening,
and under the guidance of Daniel P. Murphy the affair
came off without a dull moment. The toast master
himself started the good feeling with a few humorous
tilts and then introduced the Hon. Timothy B. Howard
as the .first speaker of the evening. The Judge told of
“The Notre Dame of Half a Century Past” in a most
touching and witty style. The real old times were
brought to mind when he showed a' copy of Progress,
the first publication at Notre Dame. Pie read from it
a poem, “Farewell,” the authorship of which he ac-
knowledged amidst hearty applause. Dudley M. Shively,
’92, of South Bend, showed the regard and feeling
which the old boys have for Notre Dame and her pro-
fessors in his address, “The Training of a Lawyer.”
Colonel William Hoynes, ’77, spoke in response to the
toast, “Notre Dame Presidents.” At his words, that
brilliant procession of Notre Dame’s leaders, from
Father Sorin to Father Cavanaugh, passed vividly
before the minds of those present. The old boys wished
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
63
for another chance to “skive,” when Thomas Hoban,
’00, of South Bend, discoursed on that manly art.
Rev. J. T. O’Connell, ’06, of Toledo, Ohio, talked of the
Notre Dame man and his sphere of influence. The most
pleasing feature of the- singing of the Notre Dame songs,
was the rendition of the “Notre Dame Victory March,”
under the direction of the author, John F. Shea, ’06.
Not a little credit is due Prof. Petersen and his boys
who rendered a very creditable musical program during
the progress of the banquet.	r
THE ALUMNI REQUIEM MASS.
Monday morning at eight o’clock, solemn requiem
mass was sung by Rev. John T. O’Connell (LL- D. ’06)
for the repose of the souls of the deceased alumni.
“Pie Jesu,” a devotional offertory solo, was well sung
by Mr. Robert Lynch, ’03. Fathers Foik and Bolger
assisted as deacon and subdeacon.
RESOLUTIONS OE THE ALUMNI ASSOCIATION.
CONDOLENCE
Whereas the Alumni Association here assembled
has learned this year of the death of the following
members:
Rev. Anthony Messmann, A. B., 1867; A. M., 1869;
Died May 22, 1912, St. Joseph’s Church, LaPorte,
Indiana. Fdgar Armistead Milner, B. S., 1881; M. S.
1911; Died July 15, 1911, Portland, Oregon. Rev.
Flugh O’Gara McShane, A. M., 1894; LL. D., 1895;
Died February 5, 1912, Chicago, Illinois. Patrick J.
Dougherty, LL- B., 1879; died Jan- 2L 1912, Chicago,
Illinois. John L. Romana, C. R., 1911; died Dec. 1911,
Arequipa, Peru, South America. Ralph Chester Dim-
mick, LL- B., 1911; died Oct. 21, 1911, Portland,
Oregon. Maurice J. Cassidy, LT- B., 1891; died Oct.
64	bulletin OF THE
18, 1911, South Bend, Indiana. John Francis McHugh,
A. B., 1872, A. M., 1874; died March 12, 1912, Fort
Wayne, Indiana. William Keegan Gardiner, A. B., 1904;
died March, 1912, Brooklyn, New York.
ThEREEorE, Be it resolved that an expression of
sorrow be made and our sympathy tendered the relatives
and friends of our departed fellow alumni, in the faith
that our common grief and our common ground for
hope may bind closer together all of us, whether living
or dead, who have here learned the beginnings of the
great lessons of life and death.
George Burkitt
Bn WARD ClEARY
John BerTEling, M. D.
CONGRATULATIONS
The Alumni Association of the University of Notre
Dame, at their annual meeting assembled, take great
pleasure in offering their congratulations to the various
athletic teams who during the past year have added
to their own honor in upholding the prestige of our
Alma Mater, and particularly to the two debating
teams who on the same night won on opposite sides of
the same question against opponents worthy of their
mettle.
Joseph J. Cooke
Henry Wurzer
John Lilly, M. D.
bachelors’ orations.
Promptly at 10 o’clock, according to schedule, the
speakers chosen to deliver the bachelor orations appeared
before a large audience in Washington Hall. Con-
servation was the general theme chosen for the promising
young orators. Mr. John Patrick Murphy of Massa-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
65
chusetts, a graduate in law, spoke with notable dis-
tinction on “Conservation of Natural Resources.” Mr.
Murphy has a pleasing voice which he uses to good
effect. Mr. William Bverett McGarry, also of Massa-
chusetts, spoke on “Conservation of ^Educational Re-
sources.” Mr. McGarry so often acquitted himself with
credit during the past year in dramatic work and public
during the past year in dramatic work and public
speaking that one naturally expected a finished piece
of work and was not disappointed. Mr. Patrick A.
Barry of Vermont had a very concrete, well-conceived
oration. The delivery was markedly earnest and sincere.
COMMENCEMENT EXERCISES.
The commencement exercises were brought to a
close by the graduating of the class of 1912 on Monday
night. Washington Hall was taxed to its capacity
with a large audience of relatives and friends of the
graduates, visiting alumni and students. Though over
two hundred seats had been placed in the aisles and
in the rear of the hall it was found necessary to utilize
all the standing room available.
COMMENCEMENT ADDRESS.
The commencement address was given by Rt. Rev.
Thomas P. Hickey, Bishop of Rochester, New York.
The appearance of the Bishop was the signal for an
ovation from the many warm friends and admirers
whom he has here at Notre Dame. The Bishop spoke
of the importance of the true kind of education at the
present day and of the great influence for good pos-
sessed by men, such as the class of 1912, who have been
privileged to attend a Catholic university. The Bishop
emphasized the thought that education is constructive,
upbuilding the moral, religious and social forces
66
BUMJJTIN OK THK
of life. True education is opposed to the elements of
destruction, such as anarchy, divorce, suicide and
civic dishonesty. The distinguished speaker was lis-
tened to with wrapt attention throughout.
CRASS POKM AND VALEDICTORY.
Mr. Walter Duncan, Bachelor of Philosophy, read the
class poem, a very creditable production. Mr. Cyril
J. Curran, Bachelor of Arts, had the honor of pro-
nouncing the valedictory for his class. Mr. Curran
spoke feelingly of the parting from Alma Mater where
the men of 1912 had spent four happy years. Not in
years has a more touching farewell been heard than
that pronounced by this promising young graduate.
Following a selection by the orchestra, degrees were
conferred.
. DRGRa^S AND AWARDS. v
The Degree of Doctor of Science in Course was con-
ferred on the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C. S. C. Thesis:
“Studies in General and Systematic Botany.”
The Degree of Doctoi* of Philosophy in Course was
conferred on Guillermo Patterson, Jr. Thesis: “The
Rapid Analysis of Alloys and a Study of the Compound
Antimony tetra-sulphide. ’ ’
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred on a
distinguished priest whose work in the field of education
has been of conspicuous merit and who has borne a
large and honorable part in the organization and de-
velopment of the Catholic Educational Association,
the Rev. Francis W. Howard, Columbus, Ohio.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
Henry Goetenkemper Clarke, South Bend, Indiana.
Thesis: “The Trusts.”
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on:
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
67
Christopher Brooks, Watertown, Wisconsin; Patrick
Arthur Barry, Bellows Balls, Vermont; Cyril Joseph
Curran, Rochester, New York; Thomas Dockweiler,
Los Angeles, California; Henry Isidore Dockweiler,
Los Angeles, California; Russell Gregory Linn, Detroit,
Michigan; Bdward Joseph Howard, Bellows Balls,
Vermont.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on:
Dr. Michael Valentine Halter, Akron, Ohio; Bernard
Herman Lange, Oil City, Pennsylvania.
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was conferred
on: Dwight Cusick, Crooksville, Ohio; John Brederick
Daily, Beloit, Kansas; Walter Duncan, LaSalle, Illinois;
Jay Lee, Bay City, Michigan; John Brancis McCague,
Homestead, Pennsylvania; William Joseph Parish,
Momence, Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was
conferred on: Joseph Martin Huerkamp, Brlanger, Ken-
tucky; Joseph Andrew Martin, Huntington, Indiana;
George Warren Philbrook, Willow Brook, California.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry was
conferred on Arthur Deady Walsh, New Brunswick,
New Jersey.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture
was conferred on: Benedict Joseph Kaiser, South
Bend, Indiana; Wendell Thomas Phillipps, Milford,
M ass acliusetts.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on:
Jose Bracho, Durango, Mexico; Bnrique Cortazar,
Chihuahua, Mexico; Carlos Alfonso Duque, Cuzco,
Peru; Brancisco Delgardo Bnaje, Naval, Leyte, Philip-
pine Islands; John Patrick McSweeney, Glen Palls,
New York; Bred James Steward, Baraboo, Wisconsin;
Leo Justin Shannon, Hamilton, Montana; Alfredo
Arnulfo Sanchez, Mexico City, Mexico.
68
BULLETIN OB TUB
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on:
William Basil Hayden, Shellsburg, Wisconsin; Walter
John Maguire, South Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; Paul
August Rothwell, Buffalo, Wyoming.
The Degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred on:
John Mackin Bannon, Crafton, Pennsylvania; Pabian
Neele Johnston, St. Louis, Missouri; Albert Heuser
Keys, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Arthur Aloysius
Keys, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Donnelly Patrick
McDonald, Port Wayne, Indiana; Robert Joseph
McGill, Indianapolis, Indiana; Paul August Rothwell,
Buffalo, Wyoming; * Charles John Robinson, Mardhoff,
California.
'The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on:
Hugh Paul And, Owensboro, Kentucky; Premont
Arnfield, Elgin, Illinois; James Warren Burke, Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin; Pred Joseph Boucher, Muskegon,
Michigan; John William Costello, Kewana, Indiana;
Harry Walter Cullen, Detroit, Michigan; Patrick
Henry Cunning, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; John Prancis
Devine, Jr., Chicago, Illinois; Hugh James Daly,
Chicago, Illinois; William Arthur Pish, Boston, Massa-
chusetts; Charles Aloysius Hagerty, South Bend,
Indiana; Donald Munson Hamilton, Columbus, Ohio;
Joseph Bernard McGlynn, East St. Louis, Illinois;
William Everett McGarry, Boston, Massachusetts;
Robert Arthur Milroy, Aurora, Illinois; Prancis Bernard
McBride, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania; Chester Martin
McGrath, Elk Point, South Dakota; John Patrick
Murphy, Westboro, Massachusetts; James Daniel Nolan,
Marietta, Ohio; Marcellus Matthew Oshe, Zanesville,
Ohio; John Elmer Peak, South Bend, Indiana; Thomas
Daniel Quigley, Chicago, Illinois; Edmond Henry
Savord, Sandusky, Ohio.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred on:
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
69
William Gaston Hintz, South Bend, Indiana; Bronis-
laus Joseph Janowski, South Bend, Indiana; Theodore
Joseph Berner, South Bend, Indiana; Michael Harvey
Nolan, Marietta, Ohio; Harvey Austin Page, Elkhart,
Indiana; Joseph Peter Steppier, Highland, Wisconsin.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical
Engineering were conferred on: Edward Miles Bruce, St.
Louis, Missouri; Carlos Amador Gonzalez, Huanuco,
Peru, South America; Alfred Christian Zweck, Beaver
Dam, Wisconsin.
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical
Engineering were conferred on: Eernando Luis Mendez,
Cartagena, Columbia, South America; Miguel Gurza,
Durango, Mexico; Jose M. Mendoza, Chihuahua,
Mexico; Philip J. Phillips, Chicago, Illinois.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Program, Senior year, and a
money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of Mr. Henry
Quan, in memory of his deceased father, was awarded
to Patrick Arthur Barry, Bellows Balls, Vermont.
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the class, of ’77,
for the best record for four years in the Civil Engineer-
ing program/was awarded to Jose Bracho, Durango,
Mexico.	.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by
Honorable William P. Breen, of the class of ’77, was
awarded to William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by
Honorable P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
William Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
Seventy-five Dollars for Debating work was awarded
as follows: Thirty dollars to Simon Ercile Twining,
BULLETIN OB THE
70
Bowling Green, Ohio. Twenty-five dollars to Bmmett
George Lenihan, Clarion, Iowa. Twenty dollars to
William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented
by Mr. James V. O’Donnell, the class of ’89, was
awarded to Simon Brcile Twining, Bowling Green,
Ohio.
Ten Dollars in gold for Sophomore Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the class of ’91, was
awarded to Stanislaus Francis Milano wski, Chicago, Ill.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Freshman Oratory, presented
by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the class of ’91, was awarded
to Fmmett George Lenihan, Clarion, Iowa,
t
REGATTA.
Long before the hour set for the start of the regatta
a large crowd of alumni, friends of graduates, graduates,
and students assembled at the east end of St. Joseph’s
lake to watch the boat races, one of the most pleasant
of the commencement features. A light breeze blew
across the lake and cooled the happy, summer-clad
assemblage. June certainly could not have had a more
pleasant afternoon in her entire repertory than the one
she gave for the annual boat races. Bvery one seemed
to be possessed with the spirit of the day and each
winning crew was heartily congratulated by the applause
of the spectators.
Of course, interest centred in the Senior-Junior
race, and though Johnston of the Seniors lost an oar
through the breaking of an oarlock, the race was won
by Captain Lange’s well-trained crew. The even pull
and lusty stroke of the 1912 crew should have sent
their boat over the course in record time, if it had not
been for the unlucky incident of the oar. The success
of the Seniors five-oared crew was a fitting finish to
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
71
the work of its members—this being the third consecutive
time they have received their anchors.
The record time of the day, 4:04, was made by the
winning Freshman crew in the Freshman-Sophomore
race. The Freshman lawyers with 4:18 speed defeated
the demoralized Junior laws. The latter turned theii-
race into a burlesque which was ill-timed and not
especially to the credit of the crew.
The change from a three-length to a two-length
course made the work of the crews easier, and brought
about a more rapid stroke than that used heretofore.
Bight of our Batin-American friends proudly
“chugged” around the lake in the handsome little
Iris, a launch constructed by them in the University
shops. The winning crews:
Freshman Faw (Sorin)—Skelly, bow; Powell, 2;
Ware, 3; Blward, 4; Harvat, 5; Gushurst (Captain),
stroke; Birder, Coxswain. Time, 4 minutes 18 seconds.
Freshman, (Corby)—Larsen, bow; Armstrong (Cap-
tain), 2; McGrath, 3; McLaughlin, 4; Quinlan, 5;
Kelleher, stroke; Smith, coxswain. Time, 4 min. 4 sec.
Senior (Golden Jubilee)—Condon, bow; Howard, 2;
Robinson, 3; Hockweiler, 4; Johnston, 5; Lange
(Captain), stroke; Cusick, coxswain. Time, 4 min.
20 sec. Starter and Referee—Cotter.
AEUMNI DEFEATS VARSITY.
After the boat races came the Alumni-Varsity base-
ball game. Although the start was delayed because of
the awarding of monograms and because the older
graduates insisted on having a snake dance, there
was little of the “hook-worm” or “lay-down spirit”
displayed after Kelly took his place on the mound.
The Varsity was kept at a double quick, for, as Attorney
Shively said, the alumni had appointed two of their
72
BULLETIN OF THB
own number as umpires. “Chauncey” Dubuc graced
•his old spot on Cartier field and performed for the
first few innings; he then retired to left field and after-
wards contributed a three bagger to the alumni hit
column. The steam roller of the old grads exterminated
the hopes of the Varsity in the seventh. The situation
at the close of the ninth
Tabulated Score:
Alumni	R	H	P	A	B
Lynch., ss	1	2	2	1	1
Lee, rf	0	- 0	2	0	0
Quigley, cf	0	0	0	0	0
Hamilton, 2b .. 1	2	1	2	0
Philips, lb	0	0	9	0	0
Brichson, If.. .. 0	1	0	1	0
Kenny, c	0	0	12	2	0
O’Connor, 3b..0	1	0	0	0
Dubuc, p. & If.. 1	1	0	3	0
Lathrop, p	0	0	1	0	0
Totals	3	7	27	9	1
was Alumni, 3; Varsity, 2.
Varsity	R	H	P	A	B
O’Connell,	ss. . . 1	1	1	1	0
Regan, cf.	. .... 1	2	0	0	0
Granfield,	3b.. .0	1	2	5	0
Farrell, it	>	0	0	10	2	0
Dolan, If.		0	0	0	0
Arnfield, 2	b.. . .0	1	2	1	0
Guppy, c.		0	0	9	1	0
Carmody,	rf. . .0	0	2	0	0
Kelley, p.		0	0	1	4	9.
Totals.. . .		2	5	27	14	0
Alumni................................o	o o 1 o 1 1 o o—3
Varsity. ............................  ...o	o o o o 2 o o o—2
WALSH AVINS CHAMPIONSHIP.
On Sunday afternoon, June 17, Walsh and Corby
halls contributed their portion to the fund of Commence-
ment entertainment by engaging in their last great
struggle for the hall championship of the University.
Old students, visitors and all the college men occupied
the temporary bleachers that surrounded the Brownson
diamond, and the line extended beyond the improvised
seats into the soft June gra.ss of the campus.
The championship battle proved to be wild and weird.
It was not the* game expected by the supporters of
either side. The unexpected happened all around:
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	73
Ryan, the imperturable, “went up,” and Melilem, of
the wizard wing, “had nothing.” Walsh won by a
score of 13 to 8, and received the congratualtions of all
on their splendid season’s work. The sceptre had passed
from Corby.
CEOSING EXERCISES IN PREPARATORY SCHOOE.
Closing exercises for the Preparatory Department
were held Thursday night, June 13, in Washington
hall. Mr. Jeremiah Plaggerty winner of the preparatory
oratorical contest, and Mr. Joseph W. Adriansen, who
won the Lyons Gold Medal for elocution, rendered the
respective pieces for which they were honored. The
awarding of prizes and certificates was an interesting
/feature of the evening’s program, and as each favorite
recipient answered his name he was given an enthu-
siastic ovation.
The orchestra began its regular round of commence-
ment programs with three well-rendered selections.
The quartet, composed of Messrs. J. Wasson, O. Murphy,
T. Currey, J. Wildgen, gave a good account of itself.
The honors were fairly well scattered around the different
preparatory halls, so that there was no noticeable
occasion for undue triumph or undue chagrin. John
Conrad Wittenberg, who got so close to victory last
year, outdistanced all competitors in the same contest
this year, and carried off the Mason medal for Carroll.
The closing remarks were made by Right Rev. M. T.
O’Dougherty, guest of the University, en route to his
diocese in the Philippine Islands. The bishop had very
complimentary things to say of the boys who received
certificates and honors, and beyond, to those who
carried home no tangible token of scholarship. He
gave certain wholesome words of advice which should
prove useful to his young audience in the coming years.
74
BUDDLBIN OB THB
The preparatory boys left for their homes Friday.
Following is the list of .
AWARDS AND DIPLOMAS.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, First Course,
was awarded to Leo Joseph Vogel, McKeesport, Pa.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, Second
Course, was awarded to John Joseph Maltby, Chicago,
Illinois.	.
. The Mason Medal, donated by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, to the student in the Preparatory School
whose scholastic record has been the best during the
school year, was conferred on John Conrad Wittenberg,
Pineville, W. Va.
The Joseph A. Lyons Gold Medal for Blocution was
awarded to Joseph W. Adriansen, DePere Wis.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preparatory Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell of the class of ’04,
was awarded to Jeremiah Joseph Haggerty, Boston,
Massachusetts.
The O’Brien Gold Medal for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence A. O’Brien,
of Chicago, was awarded to Henry George Gluckert,
South Bend, Ind.
Commercial Diploma was awarded to Roy Henry
Jones, Silver City, New Mexico.
Certificates in Bookkeeping were awarded to Arnold
Tobias Krebs,- Plamilton, Ohio; Bdward Francis Bar-
rett, Minneapolis, Minn.
Certificate in Phonography was awarded to Brnest
j William Studer, Chillicothe, Ohio.	,
Preparatory Certificates for sixteen or more units
of work were awarded to: Joseph Willebrod Adriansen,
DePere, Wis.; Bdward Francis Brucker, Toledo, Ohio;
Thomas Joseph Burke, Chicago, Ill.; Francis Holgate
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Boos, Battle Creek, Michigan; Sylvester Jerome
Burkhard, Ozark, Ohio; William Joseph Bensberg, St.
Louis, Missouri; William Christopher Casey, Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.; Joseph Edward Ciprian, Detroit, Mich.;
Clarence Joseph Currey, Pontiac, Mich.; John Bert
Denny, Jr., Johnston, Pa.; Murty Michael Pahey,
Toluca, Ill.; Henry George Gluckert, South Bend, Ind.;
Harry Bernard Jones, Vulcan, Mich.; George Maurice
Lucas, South Bend, Ind.; Gerald Joseph McGladigan,
Swissville, Pa.; George Nolan McCoy, Milwaukee, Wis.;
Hugo Monnig, Jr., Jefferson City, Mo.; Charles Hughes
Mann, Plint, Mich.; Joseph Charles Peurrung, Cin-
cinnati, Ohio; Carroll 'William Sax, South Chicago, Ill.;
Paul Anthony Schmitt, Cincinnati, Ohio; Thomas
Penion Shea, Bartlesville, Okla.; Hubert Pancratius
Weidner, Chicago, Ill.; Guy Prancis Marshall, Rock
Island, Ill.
st. Edward’s hade closing.
The closing exercises for the boys of St. Edward’s
hall began Tuesday morning. Rather Carroll, assisted
by Rather Carrico as deacon and Mr. Pernandez, O. P.,
as sub-deacon, sang solemn high mass in the minims’
chapel. On Wednesday morning came the announce-
ment of the honor roll and the distribution of prizes.
Father Cavanaugh, in giving a final word to these,
the younger members of the school, complimented
them on their good behavior and scholarship. He told
them that it was easy to find smart boys, but that not
often does one find smartness and gentlemanly conduct
combined in such degree as in the boys of this depart-
ment. He also reminded them that only in later years
would they appreciate to the fullest extent, the teaching
and care bestowed upon them by the Sisters of the
Holy Cross.
♦
BUDITTIN OP TH^
All of the boys, with the exception of about twenty
who are to remain during the summer, left for* their
homes Wednesday noon. Following is a list of
d^portmunt and cdass mfdads.
Deportment Gold Medals were awarded to: Jose M.
Gonzalez, Havana, Cuba; Walter J. Honor, Chicago,
Ill.; Tyree R. Horn, Fort Leavenworth, Kans.; Mitchell
C. Newgass, Chicago ,111.; Joaquin Viso, Santiago, Cuba.
Renewals were awarded to: George Shepherd,
Baltimore, Maryland; De Forest Stoll, Chicago, Ill.
Deportment Silver Medals were awarded to: Emil J.
Fritch, Chicago; Wade D. Macintosh, Fairburg, Ill.;
Thos. McBride, New York City; Robert Stoll, Chicago.
Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, John F. Sullivan,
Chicago, Ill. Gold Medal for Excellence in Studies,
Newman Wittenberg, Pineville, West Va. Gold Medal
for Elocution, Julius Polakow, Chicago, Ill. Gold -
Medal for Debating, Gordon B. Volland, Cleveland,
Ohio. Gold Medal for Fetter Writing, John -R. L.
Railton, Chicago, Ill.
Certificates were awarded to Barrett J. Anderson,
Robert E. Connolly, Benjamin J. Cox, Ray 0. Cline,
Harold C. Cannon, Paul G. Dixon, Emmett B. Fletcher,
Willard V. Hallam, Walter J. Hebert, Gaston A. Hebert,
Edgar J. Hawley, Lyman L. Huszagh, Donald M.
Kasson, David Lippeat, Walton J. MacConnell, Andrew
J. Moynihan, Leon Maguire, John A. Muldoon, Paul
L- Mullaney, Edward W. McCarren, Arthur Nieuwland,
David E. Outhouse, Robert E. O’Hara, Arthur C.
O’Brien, Paul T. Quarry, Robert Risch, William O.
Sturdivant, Geraldo A. Viso.
77
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
Alumni Association Officers.
Honorary President.
Rev. Denis A. Clarke, ’70,
Columbus, Ohio.
President.
Honorable William P. Higgins, ’03,
Boston, Mass.
Vice-Presidents.
Joseph J. Sullivan, ’01,
Chicago, Illinois.
Clement C. Mitchell, ’02,
Chicago, Illinois.
Louis J. Salmon, ’05,
Syracuse, N. Y.
John R. Shea, ’06.
Holyoke, Mass.
John C. Tully, ’ii,
Chicago, Illinois.
Russell G. Finn, ’12,
Detroit, Michigan.
Secretary.
Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., ’05,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Treasurer.
Honorable Warren A. Cartier, ’87,
Ludington, Mich.
Trustees, ex-officio.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., ’96,
President of the University.
Hon. William P. Higgins, ’03, .
President of the Alumni Association.
78
BULLETIN OB THE
For One Year, 1912—’13.
REV. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. S., ’91,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Colonel William Hoynes, ’77,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Byron V. Kanaley, ’04,
Chicago, Illinois.
For Two Years, I9i2-’i4.
Thomas A. Daily, ’74?
Adrian, Mich.
Thomas A. Medley, ’98,
Owensboro, Ky.	•
Harry Q. Hogan, ’04,
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Local Clubs.
•	THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OB CHICAGO.
Joseph J. Sullivan, President, 628 Reaper Block. '
Stewart Graham, Secretary, 2005 Michigan Avenue.
Francis McKeever, Treasurer, City Hall Square Building.
Mark Foote, George Crilly, Byron Kanaley, John S.
Hummer, Stephen Riordan, Kickham Scanlan, Fred
Strauss, Bxecutive Committee.	o
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO.
Rev. John T. O’Connell, Honorary President, 2290
Ashland Ave.
John Wernert, President, 1028 Ontario Street.
Michael P. Hannin, Vice-President, 2325 Franklin
Avenue.
James J% Cooney, Secretary, 15 Page Street.
Joseph O’Reilly, Treasurer, 216 Burnham Street.
- UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	79
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OB PITTSBURGH. .
Raymond J. Daschbach, President, Jenkins Arcade Bldg.
Raymond J. Burns, Vice-President, 5601 Baum Street.
Edward P. Escher, Secretary, Swissvale Station,
Braddock.
Howard J. Diebold, Treasurer, 5735 Center Avenue.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OB PHILADELPHIA.
Joseph D. Murphy, President, United States Mint.
Andrew J. Hanha’user, Secretary, 1505 Venango Street.
John H. Neeson,' Treasurer, 5116 North Broad Street.
THE NOTRE DAME GRUB OB PORTLAND, OREGON.
Pion. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
F. J. Lonergan, Secretary, Chamber of Commerce Bldg.
John F. Daly, Treasurer, Lewis Building.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OB BOSTON.
Dr. John Fennessey, President, 19 Adams St., Dorchester.
Honorable William P. Higgins, Vice-President, 31
South Boston.
William H. McCarthy, Secretary-Treasurer, 91 Ocean
St., Lynn.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OB MINNEAPOLIS AND ST. PAUL.
• Louis P. Chute, President, 7 University Avenue, N. E.,
Minneapolis.
William M. O’Brien, Vice-President, Eden Valley,
Minnesota.
Thomas J. McKeon, Vice-President, 817 Poigney Bldg.,
Duluth.
William D. Jamieson, Secretary,. 1903 Selby Ave., St.
Paul.
Thomas O’Regan, Treasurer, 1773 Laurel Ave., St. Paul.
George Freeman, Oliver H. Tong, Judge Brady, Exec-
utive Committee.	>
8o
BUDDBTIN OB THB, BTC.
THB NOTRB DAMB CDUB OF MIDWAUKBB.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Building.
Prn.uk P. Burke, Vice-President, Pabst Building.
George P. Ziegler, Secretary, 233 Bast Water Street.
Louis B. Best, Treasurer, 721 Central Avenue.
TUB NOTRB DAMB CDUB OF DAYTON, OHIO.
John C. Shea, President, 810 Reibold Building.
Thomas A. Tord, Secretary, 127 Maple St.
THB NOTRB DAMB CDUB OF FORT WAYNB, INDIANA.
John W. Bggeman, President, 614 Shoaff Building.
Harry G. Hogan, Vice-President, Court & Berry Streets.
Joseph M. Haley, Secretary, Old National Bank Bldg.
Robert L. Pox, Treasurer, Care of Pox Brothers.
THB NOTRB DAMB CDUB OF INDIANAPODIS.
Maurice A. Neville, President, 3114 Park Avenue.
Rev. Vincent B. Bwyer, Vice-President, 617 Bast
North Street.
James B. Beery, Secretary, 217 Randolph Street.
George J. Potts, Treasurer, 2822 Talbott Avenue.
THB NOTRB DAMB CDUB OF NBW YORK.
Rev. Luke J. Bvers, President 20 City Hall Place.
Prank P. Bwyer, Vice-President, 290 Broadway.
Rev. John B. McGrath, Vice-President, 262 W. 118th St.
Peter P. McBlligott, Secretary, 93 Wall Street.
Charles A. Gorman, Treasurer, 229 Grand St., Brooklyn.
THB NOTRB DAMB CDUB OF WASHINGTON, D. C.
Charles P. Neill, President, Commissioner of Tabor.
James B. Barry, Secretary-Treasurer, 928 Fourteenth
St., N. W.
Rev. Joseph Boyle, C. S. C., Joseph. J. Kilkenny, Br.
■ J. Augustin Blynn, Brancis Cull, Bxecutive
Committee.