' Series VIL
Number IIL
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JANUARY, 1912
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17,1 905
Bird’s-Eye; View or the University or Notre Dame.
Series VIL
Number HL
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JANUARY, 1912
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17,1905
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
NOTRE DAME, INDANA.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hade in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
FOREWORD
THE papers that are gathered into this
bulletin are believed to be of interest
to inquirers about the University as well
as to former students.
Mr. Evans, the writer of the first three
articles, is a journalist and his work shows not
only the haste of the journalist but the mar-
vellous power of absorption as well. It is
astonishing that even this skilled newspaper
man should have been able to get at the heart
of things in such brief time.
As for Doctor Smith, his skill is a matter
of national admiration. Though he has never
been a resident within the University, he
knows it from Old College to Walsh Hall.
The editor of the bulletin desires to
express his thanks to these distinguished gentle-
men for their appreciation of the work done at
the University as well as for the pleasure they
afford all who read the papers assembled here.
Notre Dame: Marvelous Outgrowth of
Mission in Wilderness.
By Arthur M. Evans.
[Staff Correspondent of the Chicago Record-Herald.}
NOTRE Dame, Ind., Dec. 14, 1911.—The Uni-
versity of Notre Dame is the largest Catholic
college in America and the largest boarding
college in the world. Its student body contains
nearly 1,000 young men and boys who live in halls of
residence and take their meals in commons. It is nothing
less than a vast family, with the faculty performing a
paternal as well as an educational role. Twenty-four
hours a day the students are under the eye and control
of the university. At 10 o’clock at night all lights
are out; at 6:30 in the morning the entire student
body arises. Meals are served at the same hour each
day; periods are specified when the students must
be at their books; hours are allotted for exercise and
lounging—a plan intended to develop the ability for
intense application by fostering a well regulated mode
of living and systematic habits of thought and work.
The distinctive feature of Notre Dame is the home
life of the students. The intimate relationship between
the faculty and the students impresses the visitor and
is one key to the intensity of the college spirit at Notre
Dame. The university is a town in itself, that fur-
6
BULLETIN of the
nish.es on its campus all necessities and diversions
demanded by healthy, normal youths. Bach residence
hall has its own recreation room, with billiard and
pool tables, bowling alleys and pianos. The college
has its own shops and stores, its own theater and its
own hospital.
The career of the university is little short of a marvel,
and its history is an inspiring record of sacrifice and
devotion.
Sixty-nine years ago a Trench priest with a great
vision came here with sixty-six dollars to establish a
university in the wilderness. He found a log chapel and
a ten-acre clearing. Today the university has twenty-
two large buildings, a campus of 2,000 acres and a
farm of the same area, all valued at $3,000,000; its
curriculum has grown from one course to eighteen;
it has a chapel of cathedral proportions; its halls are
storehouses of treasures, while from a liberal arts college
in 1842 the university has expanded until it now em-
braces in addition colleges of science, engineering,
architecture, journalism and law.*
The astonishing feature about this growth is that
the university has no endowment. The explanation
lies in the faculty, which is composed of priests, brothers
and laymen. The laymen, numbering forty-one, are
all salaried, but the priests and brothers, who number
forty-four, give their time, labor and energy without
compensation. A majority of the faculty serve with-
out pay and the university is supported by the tuition
fees of the students. Its sole endowment has been
one of flesh and blood.
* “It were a great pleasure to salute Notre Dame, the first of
American Catholic Colleges”—Archbishop Ireland,May, 16, 1908.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
7
The University of Notre Dame was founded Nov.
27, 1842, by Rev. Edward Sorin of the Congregation
of Holy Cross, an order devoted to missions and to
education. Father Sorin came from Paris at the
request of Bishop de la Hailandiere of the diocese of
Vincennes to found a mission and to establish a college
near Vincennes. Not liking the site, however, he asked
the bishop for another location and was given a section
of land on the St. Joseph River near Lake Michigan
on the condition that he build a college and novitiate
within two years, and that he attend, at the same time
the Indians and white settlers within a radius of 100
miles.
With seven brothers of the order Father Sorin set
out from Vincennes Nov. 16, 1842, some on horseback
and some with an ox team. On the eleventh day the
party arrived at South Bend and a few hours later
reached Notre Dame du Lac.* They found a log chapel,
a log hut occupied by the Indian interpreter and a
ten-acre clearing. The lower story of the chapel,
through which the winter winds blew, formed their
lodgings and they experienced great hardship. “Lately,”
wrote Father Sorin in a letter of that period, “one of
our good brothers had a foot frozen, and another one
of his toes; and I had just 50 cents, sufficient, however,
to permit me to show that I was not altogether insen-
sible to their sufferings. But as each one understands
his mission we are happy and contented. Behold in
this what grace can do. We have at present but one
bed, and they insist that I shall take it. * They them-
* This old mission was founded by Rev. Stephen Theodore
Badin, the first priest ordained within the present limits of
the United States.—Ed. BuddETin.
8
BULLETIN OF THB
selves sleep on the floor, just as they did for three weeks
at St. Peter’s. Tomorrow I shall give up my room
to Brother Marie to be used for his shop.”
The first college building, a modest two-story brick
structure on the shore of St. Mary’s Lake, served to
house the faculty and five students. It is still stand-
ing and is used as a residence hall. The first student
to enter was Alexis Coquillard, who afterward became
a wealthy wagon-maker in South Bend. In 1843 a
second colony of religious arrived from Prance. Tor
years the college felt the pinch of poverty. Some-
times necessities had to be sold to pay debts, in one
instance the horses being taken from the plow and sold
to satisfy a creditor. At another time there was not
a morsel of food in the house, and the students were
just going to bed supperless when a gift of money
from a stranger arrived. During the summer of 1854
Bather Sorin’s community was almost wiped out
by the cholera. To avert a panic among the students
the dead were carried stealthily away at midnight.
At one time only one teacher was on his feet, and often
there were not enough of the well to give medicine to
the sick.
In 1879 another crisis came. Tire almost wiped
out the university. By this time a group of handsome
structures were on the campus. Hardly any insurance
was carried. Bather Sorin was then 65 years of age,
but was not disheartened at the destruction of the work
of nearly forty years. Before the smoke had vanished
new buildings were being planned. The fire occurred
in April, and in September classrooms were ready and
an increased student body was enrolled. By 1885 the
university had fully recovered from the disaster of 1879.
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME
9
The venerable founder of the university died in 1893,
the year after the fiftieth anniversary of the estab-
lishment of Notre Dame. He is buried in the community
cemetery, a simple iron cross marking his grave. At
the entrance of the college grounds stands a statue of
the patriarch who developed a great university out of
an Indian Mission.
A notable Italian master, Luigi Gregori, enriched the
university by devoting almost an entire life’s work
to the decoration of its halls. Father Sorin had a
fine taste for art and was a great believer in the value
of beautiful paintings and sculptures in the develop-
ment of soul and mind. Gregori was sent from the
Vatican to beautify the walls and domes of the chief
buildings. He spent twenty years with his pallette
and brushes and left the university a treasure house
of art. He is best known by his frescoes illustrating
the career of Columbus. They are painted on the
walls of the corridors of the main building. They show
the great discoverer begging at the doors of La Rabida
and follow him through his appearance at the court
of Ferdinand and Isabella, his embarking in the car-
avels, the mutiny at sea, the discovery of land and the
planting of the cross in the New World. The greatest
fresco of the series depicts the return of Columbus to
Spain. Two others picture his betrayal by Bobadilla
and his death. Some of these famous paintings were
reproduced on the series of Columbian postage stamps
in 1893.
The Church of the Sacred Heart is famous for its
frescoes. No other edifice in America contains such a
wealth of mural paintings. On every square foot of
surface in ceiling, dome and walls Gregori left a touch of
IO
BULLETIN OF THF
his art, from great groups illustrating biblical episodes
to solitary angels and saints and cherubs. It is a mar-
velous interior, and art critics from abroad when visiting
Notre Dame express wonderment at the plethora of
beautiful paintings.*
* Among the chief art treasures at the University is an
altar by Bernini. It is believed to be the only original work
of Bernini on the American continent.—Bb. Buij/BTin.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
II
Grouping of Fine Buildings one Remarkable
Feature at the University of Notre Dame.
By Arthur M. Evans.
[Staff Correspondent of the Chicago Record-Herald.]
NOTRE Dame, Ind., Dec. 15, 1911.—The halls
of residence are the centers of student activities
at the University of Notre Dame. Between
the several houses exists a rivalry that is as whole-
some as it is vigorous. The students make interhall
contests out of every phase of student life. In
scholarship and debate they make just as much of a
race of it as in athletics, all for the glory of the college
and the fame of their respective halls.
The university has no Greek letter fraternities and
the students are grouped by the halls to which they
belong. In some colleges interclass rivalry has been
deplored as tending to break the student body into
fragments and to crush college spirit, but at Notre
Dame the interhall competition has had a directly
opposite result. Its effect has been cohesive. The
college spirit is tremendous. In athletics there are
regular schedules of interhall games in football, basket-
ball, baseball, track and aquatic sports. Each hall
has an athletic field of its own, in addition to the varsity
12
BUM^TIN OB THB
field, and nearly every student gets into the game,
Corby, Brownson, Sorin, St. Joseph and Walsh halls
contending for supremacy.
The university has sent its alumni into every walk
of life. It has contributed to the service of the nation
2 archbishops, 5 bishops, 115 clergymen, 14 presidents
of colleges, 68 professors, 18 judges of the Supreme,
Circuit and Superior courts, 1 United States senator,
1 ambassador, 7 army officers and 21 neswpaper editors.
The first class was graduated in 1849. The oldest
living alumnus is General Robert W. Healy, ’52,* of
Chattanooga, Tenn. The institution has grown from
a graduating class of two in 1849 to one of 103 last June.
Among the prominent alumni are Archbishop Riordan,
San Francisco; Charles P. Neill, United States com-
missioner of labor; Rev. John Cavanaugh, president
of Notre Dame; Timothy B. Howard, former chief
justice of the Indiana Supreme Court, Judge Ben
Lindsey of Denver, and John Gibbons and Kickham
Scanlan of Chicago. During the civil war Notre Dame
sent seven of its professors to serve as chaplains. In
honor of Rev. William Corby a bronze statue has been
-erected on the field of Gettysburg. After the war there
were enough veterans in the faculty to form a Grand
Army post composed wholly of priests and brothers.
The campus and the grouping of buildings at Notre
Dame are remarkable. The gilded dome of the Main
* When the Alumni Association was reorganized a few years
ago, the three oldest living graduates were guests of honor.These
were the Hon. James B. O’Brien, formerly Chief-Justice of
New Mexico; Brig.-Gen. Robert W. Healy, and the Hon.
Timothy K. Howard, formerly Chief-Justice of Indiana.—Bd.
Bulletin.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
13
Building, surmounted by a statue of the Blessed Virgin,
can be seen for miles. The main hall is an imposing
structure in the non-Gothic style. To the right front
is Sacred Heart Church, with its exquisite frescoes,
and to the left are Music Hall and the Hall of Tech-
nology. The college church is as imposing as a cathedral.
A six-ton bell that can be heard for miles up and down
the St. Joseph Valley and a chime of thirty-two bells
are in the tower.
To the south of the Main Building is a great court-
yard, lined with avenues of trees and flanked by ed-
ucational buildings and the halls of residence. To the
east and north are two beautiful lakes, St. Joseph’s
and St. Mary’s, on the shores of which are Holy Cross
Seminary, Dujarie Institute, St. Joseph’s Novitiate and
the Professed House.
The physical vigor of the students is notable. Their
regularity of life keeps them in fine condition. In
twenty years the university has not lost more than
five students through death. The two lakes give
facilities for boating, bathing, fishing and skating.
Pew of the students fail to participate in athletics.
It is a great scene when they troop into commons at
meal times, 1,000 of them dining in two large halls,
with the faculty seated at a table at the head of the
larger room.
The students associate intimately with the professors.
The discipline is admirable, but there appears to be
no feeling of restraint between faculty and students.
It is a happy family. As to scholarship, every priest
professor has to undergo eleven years of training after
the high school before admitted to the faculty, four
years in the college of liberal arts, four years in theo-
14
BULLETIN OE THE
logical school and three years in study for his doctor’s
degree.
In debate Notre Dame has a remarkable record
It is:
Out of eighteen intercollegiate debates, Notre Dame
won seventeen consecutive victories and met one defeat.
In the eight years that Notre Dame has been a member
of the State Oratorical Association it has won first place
twice, second place twice, and third place twice. In the
first two years after its entrance Notre Dame was ranked
fourth and fifth. In the interstate contest Notre Dame
won first place once A
The trophy room at the gymnasium has a fine assort-
ment of athletic trophies won by the gold and blue
teams. Notre Dame began football in 1887 under
the tutorship of the University of Michigan, which had
just introduced the game in the West. In 1889 Notre
Dame defeated Northwestern University by a score
of 9 to o, this being the third game played by Notre
Dame. Out of four games with Northwestern up to
1903 Notre Dame has won three. In 1898 Notre Dame
won against Illinois, but has lost three to the Uni-
versity of Chicago. In 1909 Notre Dame defeated
Michigan and laid claim to the western championship.!
In state games Notre Dame has won three games
from Purdue since 1896, lost three and tied twice.
Out of nine games with the University of Indiana since
1898 Notre Dame won four, lost four and tied once.
* In the Peace Oratorical Contest for the State of Indiana
Notre Dame has Ivon first place twice, out of three times
in which the University competed.—Bd. Bulletin.
*! “To Notre Dame must be conceded the championship of
the West”—Collier's Weekly, December 1909.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
15
The other strongest contender in the state is Wabash
College, which has been beaten by Notre Dame in
every game but one.
In baseball the university has made the following
remarkable record:
Notre Dame has won thirteen out of nineteen games
with Purdue, eighteen out of nineteen games with the
University of Indiana, five out of fourteen with Illinois,
four out of five with the University of Chicago, six
out of ten with Michigan, eight out of nine with Neb-
raska, nine out of thirteen with Wisconsin, six out of
ten with Northwestern and eleven out of sixteen with
Minnesota.
In 1908 Notre Dame played twenty-two games and
lost only two, seven of the games being played with
eastern colleges.
Many a “big leaguer” received his baseball training
here. Captain Anson played on the team in 1867;
Murray, outfielder of the New York Giants; Daniels,
first baseman of the New York Highlanders; Ruelbach
of the Cubs; McCarthy of the Pittsburgh Nationals;
and Bescher of the Cincinnati Nationals all played on
the college team here. Gibson, former pitcher for
the Boston Americans; Powers, former catcher for
the Philadelphia Athletics, and McGill and O’Neill,
famous pitcher and catcher for the Cincinnati Nationals
are all graduates of Notre Dame*
* To this list may be added Robert Lynch (Southern),
Sockalexis (Cleveland), Birmingham (Cleveland), William
Burke (Boston Nationals), Harry McDonough (Philadelphia
Nationals), Dubuc (Detroit), Curtis (New York), Cutshaw
(Brooklyn), Prank Scanlon (Philadelphia Nationals), Quigley
(Pittsburg), Shaughnessey (Washington).—Ed. Bulletin.
16	BUUyKTlN OF TH$
In track athletics Notre Dame was fourth in the
western intercollegiate in 1898, second in 1899 and
champion in 1901. In 1910 Notre Dame was tied
for first place in the conference meet by Leland Stanford.
In two triangular meets with Chicago and Illinois
Notre Dame was placed first each time.
***
The great need of the university just now is a library
building. The 55,000 volumes and thousands of manu-
scripts and pamphlets are kept in several buildings
at present. The college has accumulated what is
considered one of the finest ecclesiastical museums in
the country. For lack of room it has never been pos-
sible to determine what a wealth of historical data,
both secular and ecclesiastical, Notre Dame possesses.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
17
Notre Dame University Gives Thorough
Training to Artist, Actor or Soldier.
Bt Arthur M. Evans.
[Staff Correspondent of the Chicago Record-Heraldi]
NOTRE Dame, Ind., Dec. 16, 1911.—Dramatics,
art and military science are three’ auxiliary
branches in which Notre Dame makes especial
effort to develop the latent talent of students. The
university has a large theater and has established a
reputation for the excellence of its stage productions.
Theatricals have been placed under a college department
and the student actors are put through rehearsals
until the plays move with almost a professional swing.
The accessories of a modern theatre have been installed,
including an electrical switchboard as complete as those
in most metropolitan amusement houses, giving full
opportunity for lighting effects. At least three plays
are presented each year by the University Dramatic
Club, the Philopatrian Society and the senior class.
Last year the students presented “The War Cor-
respondent,” “A King for a Day” and “The Dictator.”
In addition forty-eight concerts and lectures were given
by outsiders, while concerts were also given regularly
by the university band, and orchestra and the glee club.
i8
BULLETIN ol the
The college theatre is an important feature of student
life’
Military drill is optional with the older students,
but it has proved so popular with the men that each
hall has furnished a strong company to the battalion.
For some years the drill has been compulsory for
the boys in St. Bdward’s Hall, and in Carroll Hall.
Bver since the civil war, when the school sent seven
priest-professors to the front as chaplains, to say nothing
of numbers of students who enlisted as soldiers, the
university’s pride in its martial records has been tra-
ditional. Father Sorin, the founder, had always
encouraged military exercises for the excellent physical
training and the general bearing which they impart, and
as far back as 1859 a company known as the Conti-
nental Cadets had been formed among the seniors by
William F. Lynch, a student, who afterward became
a brigadier general. The junior students were or-
ganized into the Washington Cadets. When the war
broke out the Continental Cadets enlisted almost to
a man, and many of them attained commissioned rank.
Among them was Robert W. Healy, who became a
general. The family of General Sherman also has
been associated with Notre Dame, the great soldier’s
son having been educated here. Among the relics in the
university museum is the coat which Sherman wore
during his march to the sea.
In 1910 the War Department appointed Captain
R. R. Stogsdall, a retired officer of the United States
army, professor of military science and tactics in the
university. During the last year the department has
greatly increased its popularity. The drill is accredited ►
as a class, and under the optional system the students
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
19
receive more benefit from the instruction and exercise
than if it were compulsory.
Possessing as it does such an accumulation of works
of art, it is small wonder that Notre Dame devotes
great attention to its courses in drawing, painting
and molding. In the majority of other colleges, the
art departments have a great preponderance of girls
and young women in the enrollment. Few men take
the courses. Here, while the aim of the department
is to lay a foundation for those who expect to make art
a profession, the courses in artistic drawing, in modeling
and in painting, are so arranged that all students find
them accessible, and boys and young men with the
slightest evidence of talent are encouraged to give
it development. The great aim is to develop in-
dividuality.
Among the classes that set up their easels and can-
vases along the shores of the lakes in the spring and fall,
it is no uncommon thing to find students who are
preparing for medicine, the law, the ministry or for
technical pursuits. It gives them a pleasant avocation
for later life and is part of the plan to train them to
get the most out of existence. It follows the idea that
a man ought to have some accomplishment, whether
it be in billiards, music, painting or anything else that
requires skill and affords recreation.
The student body is of cosmopolitan tone. Fifteen
foreign countries are represented, South and Central
America having a particularly large colony at the
university. Thirty-seven states contribute to the at-
tendance. Catholic students are required to study
Christian doctrine, non-Catholics are expected to attend
services at stated times in the university church. The
20
bubeetin of the
expenses of attending Notre Dame are $400 a year for
board, tuition, lodging and laundry. Private rooms
are free to seniors, juniors and sophomores, while for
freshmen they cost $50 and for preparatory students
$80 to S150. The matriculation fee is $10. A number
of the students defray half the cost of board and tuition
by waiting on table. They live in St. Joseph’s Hall,
and among them are some of the best scholars in the
University. Cigarette smoking is prohibited. Stu-
dents who have the permission of their parents, are
allowed to smoke, but nothing deadlier than pipes and
cigars.
The collection of ecclesiastical paintings and relics
at the university is said to be without equal in the
country. In the main building a gallery is hung with
portraits of all the bishops and archbishops who have
held dioceses within the boundaries of the United
States. In cabinets a great collection of mitres, crosiers,
robes and other articles used by American prelates
is displayed. In addition there is a large museum
containing innumerable relics and manuscripts—the
entire episcopacy of the United States and the history
of the church in America being illustrated. Historians
regard the accumulated archives as of great value.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
21
The Boys of Notre Dame.
By Rev. John Taebot Smith, BL. D.
Author of “A Woman of Culture,” “The Art of Disappearing/
' ‘The Black Cardinal,” etc.
[Special Correspondence to the New York Freeman’ f
Journal.]
NOTRE Dame, Indiana, June 8, 1908.—I hap-
pened to be visiting the University of Notre
Dame about the time the baseball team re-
turned from a victorious tour through the eastern
States, and had the opportunity of witnessing at close
range the rather picturesque student life at this
peculiar and remarkable institution. As topics dof
this sort rarely come before our own people, it may
interest Catholics generally to get some account of the
life a student leads at Notre Dame. If I begin with
the physical and end with the intellectual let the high-
minded console themselves with the fact that Nature
acts in the same fashion. It was not a trifling matter
to the students of Notre Dame that their baseball
nine had snatched victory from the finest teams in
the East. I am a firm believer in the National Game,
which should be made a prime feature of every^boy’s
’ training, and I sympathized with the enthusiasm
seething in the student body when the victors returned
home. It was a pleasant May evening, with a clear
22
BULLETIN OF THE
sky and the wonderful grounds of the University in
full bloom. The victorious and untuneful Nine were
met at the gates by a cheering crowd of some hundreds,
who used up all the college yells in their possession,
accompanied the players to their various residences,
and called for speeches at each stopping-place. They
got them, and yelled for more. A mob is a mob, some
one has well said, even if it be composed of poets.
It is like a wayward boy in good humor, which may
change at a wink into bad. I thought it a rather good
test of the discipline of Notre Dame, under which
over a thousand young fellows live, and waited with
interest for the end.
No one interfered during the hour of recreation.
The mob moved about cheerfully demanding speeches
and got them. When the bells began to ring for the
study hour the lads gathered in front of the main
building to hear a few remarks from the President,
who congratulated them on the victories of the team,
thanked the victorious Nine for their manly conduct
on the tour, felicitated the crowd on their handsome
reception, and reminded them that they should now
disperse to their various homes promptly and in good
order. They dispersed with laughter and cheers. In
ten minutes darkness and silence together settled over
the grounds. Two days later I saw the victors in a
curious pickle. Indiana University team came down
to play them, and at the ninth inning the score stood
4 to 3 in favor of the visitors. The last half of the
ninth inning disclosed a situation dear to the hearts
of the “fans.” Notre Dame was at the bat with two
men on bases, two out, and two strikes called. The
yelling crowd in the grand stand became silent, either

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
23
appalled or stupefied at the situation. I sat near the
coach on the bench, watching for some sign of dis-
comfiture. He showed no uneasiness, no strain, although
the issue depended on the next strike. The batter
knocked the ball out of sight with one swipe, and the
game closed 5 to 4 in favor of Notre Dame. Then
pandemonium broke loose, the grand stand shook
with cheering and dancing and throwing loose
garments into the air, the mob surged in on the
players and carried them off the field, and the band
played on.
That night Corby Hall gave a reception to the
athletes, which astonished me by its elegance and
novelty. The guests were received in a large hall dec-
orated finely with the University colors, gold and blue,
from one end to the other. The floor was covered with
rugs contributed by the denizens of the Hall from
their own rooms. The pennants of various colleges
figured in the decorations. The electric lights were of
gold and blue. The receiving body occupied one end
of the hall, and the visitors had the other end. Among
them were Bishop Alerding of Tort Wayne, a prelate
of graceful appearance and charming manners, Pres-
ident Cavanaugh, and the former Archdeacon Wilbur,
who has just entered the Church. A lively program
was carried out, and a pleasant lunch served. I had the
honor of shaking hands with the Nine, not the Muses,
but the others, big fellows, who seemed nowise em-
barrassed by the luck and the honors coming so thickly
their way. The work of getting up and carrying on
the reception had all been done by the inhabitants
of Corby Hall. The interesting point is this: that no
professional caterer could have beaten it. And the
24
bulletin or THE
boys admitted next day that in social matters Corby
Hall never lost the lead. I was told that on every side.
My father solemn appearance never daunted them.
Wherever I encountered them, they chatted with the
interest and unconcern peculiar to members of a family,
and seemed to count the stranger within the gates
as one of their own.
The boy is always best in spontaneous utterance,
but on formal occasions it it not easy to get that
utterance. I asked the Rector of the Seminary, Rather
Trench, to hold a symposium in which the program
would be left largely to the moment, in order to dis-
cover what young fellows can do with a discussion,
an address, an entertainment, which has not been
planned beforehand. The result must have surprised
himself. I was the only guest. About a hundred
students sat around the room. The orchestra played
a few minutes. Then I gave the subjects of debate
as follows: The study of the Greek and Latin classics
is an essential factor in modern culture. Tour men were
named to debate it, and were permitted to sit apart
and prepare their arguments during the delivery of
the program. Then a young fellow was called upon
to welcome me, which he did very neatly. Another
read ten or twelve poems composed by the students,
to show me what they could do in verse; he prefaced
each poem with an account of the author, who rose
and bowed; the verses were good, often witty, and the
impromptu biographies by the reader were excellent. .
The debate was most amusing. The arguments mattered
little. It was the readiness, the fluency, the self-
possession of the disputants which delighted me. They
went at it hammer and tongs, as if the fate of nations
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
25
hung on their success, and fretted because the limit
of time shut off their brightest ideas on the important
topic. I have attended soirees in the luxurious halls
of the Waldorf which did not display so much ability,
or hold half the interest of this outburst in the Seminary
at Notre Dame.
A similar incident occurred later in a hall where
the Freshmen and Sophomores were holding an imita-
tion Memorial or Decoration Day meeting. It was
most amusing to see and hear these youngsters orating
and speaking with all the dignity and seriousness of
their elders. At the close I offered a question for debate:
Resolved, that the United States should abolish child
labor in the States. The presiding officer called upon
a young man to open the discussion. The question
of child labor has been sufficiently popular to enable
the most indifferent to learn something about it from
the newspapers, and therefore I am not surprised to
learn that the various disputants knew at least the
outlines of the general argument. What did surprise
me was first the production by one speaker of the
printed report of Senator Beveridge’s speech on child
labor in the Senate, and second the acute discussion
of the means by which the Federal Government might
compel the States to abolish child labor. Senator
Beveridge hails from Indiana of course. The speakers
had some acquaintance with his attack on a widespread
abuse, and I listened to a rather sharp dispute on the
powers of the Federal Government, the range of the
Interstate Commerce laws, and the tricks of manu-
facturers to secure child labor. The ability to write,
to compose creditable verse, to think and speak on
the spur of the moment, is highly appreciated at Notre
26
BULLETIN OK THK
Dame, and the results of training in the arts of expression
seem to be worthy of consideration.
The territory of the University covers three square
miles, having within its limits two lakes of beautiful
water, which streams from secret springs upward
through a bottom of marl and flows into a noble river
a mile distant, the St. Joseph. The buildings are scat-
tered about on the shores of the two lakes, facing roads
which all run into the quadrangle formed by the main
buildings. This quadrangle is a • fine park, filled with
shrubs and shaded by noble trees. It is the public
square of Notre Dame, and witnesses at times most
impressive scenes. On workdays it is alive with students
passing from one class to another, or from one duty
to another. On festal days the religious processions
march around it. I witnessed the celebration of Ascen-
sion Day, which looked like a bit of old Europe, touched
up by American briskness and seriousness. At eight
o’clock a sonorous bell gave the signal. Then you could
see the seminarians coming along the smaller lake,
the novices from their home on the larger lake, the
students pouring out of the various halls, the gradu-
ating class in cap and gown, the Brothers of the com-
munity, all hastening into the quadrangle in front of
the main building. Then from the church came the
altar boys and the clergy on their way to the corridor
of the Main Building, whose walls .are ornamented with
the frescoes of Gregori. When all were assembled, the
signal was given, the college band began to play a
solemn march, and the procession wound its way
through the park, appearing and vanishing among
the trees, a beautiful mass of color, which faded
slowly in the dense green of the distance. It appeared
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	27
again like a many-colored thread, weaving itself into
the shrubbery, and then slowly all the figures came out
again clearly, as if a tapestry weaver had done his
work swiftly on a curtain of brilliant green.
The procession entered the church in a character-
istic way, some by the doors of the apse, others by the
side doors, the main body through the grand entrance.
The students took their places at will, without order
and without disorder, some taking the first seat that
offered, others choosing, a few seeking out the friends
beside whom they knelt with contentment. The sanct-
uary filled rapidly. The Bishop being present the cer-
emonies were longer than usual; but there was no delay,
no dragging; the strong voices of the seminarians intoned
the rubrical parts of the Mass, the choir sang in Plain
Chant the usual parts, and no one wearied over the
beautiful, dignified, swift-moving drama. The preacher
spoke hardly fifteen minutes, with no discussion or
exposition of points, with no thesis to prove, an expres-
sion of profound emotion, a rhapsody on the Life of
Our Lord, so penetrating in its utterance, so sweet in
its diction, that the most indifferent listener felt moved
as if by the sound of far-off, pathetic music. It is not
often that one hears such a discourse. Few would
venture into such a field, but it suited the occasion,
the great church, and the beautiful scene.
The secret of Notre Dame lies in the fact that it
has been able to keep up in a large household the spirit
which usually belongs to a small one. The fine locality,
the noble buildings, the thousand students and teachers,
enable the directors to produce really enchanting
scenes almost at will; and the abounding life of these
youths, expressed in such variety, and with such
28
BULLETIN OF THB
freedom, and yet with such restraint, keeps all things
sparkling, scintillating, like stars on a frosty night
in the Adirondacks. To my mind this buoyant life
is the most precious natural treasure owned by man-
kind. To be near it, to enjoy it, is the reward of the
parent and the teacher, who renew their own lives
in the fountain of immortal youth.
They have a parrot at Notre Dame who laughs
like a boy that has just succeeded in playing April
fool on his chum. It is the richest thing of its kind
on earth. Adam must have so laughed in the days of
his youthful glory. Merely by imitation this bird has
caught the echo of true human joy. How many wise,
successful men have missed it!
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
A Modern Monastery.
By the Rev. John Taebot Smith, LL. D.
[Reprinted with permission from Donahoe's Magazine
for October, 1907.]
WHBRR I sat, the pump could be seen, some-
what rusty, but inviting to the thirsty on a
hot summer day. Tall trees waved over me;
the rocks of a shrine, Our Lady of Lourdes, rose vine-
covered, moist and cool, directly before me, and to the
right were the walls of the sacristy, above on the brow
of the slope. Turning about I could see the blue
waters of a little lake. It was aggravating.
I recalled far-off days when I lay on my face beside
a mountain spring and drank my fill of the most beautiful
and satisfying of all the liquids known to thirsty man.
That time has passed many years. A dyspeptic twist
in an otherwise capable stomach had made all liquids,—
in particular the cool,—impossible, disquieting, some-
times dangerous. I knew the pump covered a spring,
for this region is full of springs. The little lake behind
me, and the other just out of sight beyond the road,
have no inlets, because the water gushes clear and
plentiful from the marl bottom. I longed to drink,
to repeat the rich pleasure of boyhood; and finally
I did, accepting the consequent discomfort for the joy
•of drinking deep of water from the natural well.
30
BUWv^TlN OF THF
What delicious coolness, sweetness, refreshment!
The barbarous flavor of iron pipe, the arctic chill of
Penobscot ice, quite absent I Fill up the tin cup again,
and again, and again! Here’s to the mountain spring,
to boyhood, to the sprite of this well! And in spite
of quantity and dread, Adam’s ale cut no capers with
the astonished alimentary canal, but soothed the dark
and timorous shores, uplifted the spirit, and brought
repose where most other intruders brought horror.
From that moment the pump and I became devoted
friends. Were I a poet, its peaceful glory should often
be my theme of song.
I sang its praise to an invalid friend from the Nova
Scotia shore, and urged the tin cup upon him. He had
to be very careful about introducing strangers to the
fearsome creatures which maintained and yet threatened
his inner life, he said; but overcome by the memory
of his youth he, too, drank, at first cautiously, then
freely, and thereafter copiously with benefit. For
both, the effect of this natural water direct from the
spring was a revelation, and we spent some minutes in
discussing and denouncing the piped water of modern
cities, which might do for cleaning purposes, but fo-
mented rebellion, discontent, reform and puritanism
in the stomachs of the multitude. The hermits of the
Thebaid on bread, dates, and spring water, lived a
hundred years without serious effort to live.
Perhaps this Indiana well is the least significant thing
on the beautiful grounds of the University of Notre
Dame. To me it became symbolic of the institution
itself, which seemed like a fountain of the Middle Ages,
set in the plains of modern Indiana, to water the arid,
modern field with the mystic stream of the Christian
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
31
ages. A few yards away from the shrine stands the
church, a great temple, a cathedral in size and beauty,
in which I sat on Sunday morning to see the Holy Cross
community and the University colony at their public
devotions. Before eight o’clock the worshippers trooped
in with the brisk, decided tread of a regiment on the
march, while a bell of deep, sweet tone resounded
gigantic on the summer air. The Brothers of the
community, old and young, filled the space in the apse,
their peaceful faces turned towards the main altar;
then came the collegians and novices of the community,
in cassock and surplice, lean and vigorous youths,
to fill the stalls on either side of the sanctuary, along
the wall; the lay members of the faculty in their black
gowns with colored hoods took the front pews; and
behind them a thousand youths and boys, students
and others, marched to their places.
The procession entered from the sacristy as the
clock struck the hour, boys, servers, and clergy, the
latter wearing the black cape of the community over
the surplice; the great organ pealed and the choir
sang ’ Introit and Kyrie in the Gregorian chant. It
was a spectacle which I had never seen before, and I
doubt if any other church in the land could reproduce
it. There was something thunderous about it, as of
an army hearing Mass on the eve of battle; so that as
I sat there the vision of that great world outside came
to me, the world in which the tremendous struggle
between good and evil roars like Niagara to the listen-
ing ear, without diminuendo or cessation. Here, indeed,
were the warriors of to-morrow’s battle, drinking in
strength under the eye of the Leader Himself.
This display of strength, of unity in purpose and
32
BULLETIN OB THE
method, has an inspiring effect on the modern Catholic.
We are so scattered, almost diluted, in the malicious,
materialistic, skeptical, flippant society of the time,
that we rarely feel our solidarity of aim as well as of
doctrine. I said, as I drank in the wonderful scene
for over an hour: “ We should have one hundred such
centres as this in the Republic, with a million youths
preparing for the fray; and parents, leaders, isolated
captains of frontier posts, should come when they could
to feast eyes and hearts on the army of the future,
making ready joyously to take their places in the field.”
The army marched out again and left me alone in the
majestic temple. Sixty years ago, the spot where I
sat was part of the Indiana prairie, occasionally trod
by the Indians and the missionary, Stephen Badin,
who taught them the ways of grace. His grave is only
a few hundred yards away, under a replica of the log
church in which he said Mass for the red men.
What a marvel of human labor! Without subsidy
from state or millionaire, beginning their work with a
handful of men, the Holy Cross community has covered
the prairie with the buildings of a town, structures,
great and small, capable of entertaining and educating
a community and a student body of two thousand
members; and has shaped an educational instrument
of wonderful resource, great power and originality.
How was the marvel accomplished? Through the men
whose quiet graves I can see in the distance, priests
and brothers; and through the men whose sturdy hands
are guiding and shaping the work at the present moment.
I met a score of them and studied them with infinite
curiosity, from the simple brother who waited on me
at breakfast to the most finished product of community
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
33
life. The dominant quality struck me as alertness.
The sacristan in spite of age flew about like a bird amid
sacristies and sanctuaries of exquisite neatness and order.
I looked long at a group of young lay novices mending
the roads, with much chat and laughing, but working
at top speed and energy. I sat in the first college, a
little building on the smaller lake, still in good repair, now
used by a section of the lay novices, and chatted with
young men, who promptly provided me with liter-
ature and information as to their own particular circle.
All the signs about me indicated that each depart-
ment had something extra to do and could lose no time
in doing it.
The great problem in our Catholic colleges is concerned
with discipline. The ancient French method has
been discarded, as it had to be, in a community which,
tolerates, if it does not admire, the latitude of Harvard
and Yale8; but neither the Catholic parent nor the
Catholic teacher will ever accept the modern indifference
in protecting the youthful student against both himself
and his seducers. Notre Dame has been seeking the
golden mean. It would be indiscreet to ask if it has
been found. I sat on the veranda of Sorin Hall, the
main dormitory, in the evening. Lights twinkled in a
hundred windows. From a dormitory opposite came
the twang of a banjo, the wail of a violin, the chatter
of conversation, the music of an accidental quartette;
young men came and went across the broad square,
mounted or descended the high steps, did the usual
things peculiar to a college street; and yet nowhere
did the sounds indicate riot, disorder, or horseplay.
It seemed more like the decorum of a populous hotel.
When the study-bell sounded a'pleasant silence followed.
34
BULLETIN OB THB
After night prayer in the main building I was at pains
to watch the young fellows going to bed. In my day
we marched in silence from the study-hall to the dor-
mitory, two long lines of lank young men against the
walls of the corridor, so that the master could see our
behavior from the head of the line. In silence we went
to bed. They do it amusingly at Notre Dame and in
a home-like way. After the prayers the boys dawdled
a few minutes in and around the study-hall, closing the
accounts of the day quietly; some left hat, coat, vest,
collar and tie on their desks in most admired disorder;
then they went off in twos and threes at their convenience
to bed. The grand dormitory for this section presented
a remarkable appearance. Each bed being surrounded
by spotless linen curtains, one saw only a great spread
of linen, a floor with carpeted aisles, and the high
windows. The boys disappear within the curtains,
where they find a bed and a chair. No disorder, no
noise, no capers! The single chair explained why some
left part of their costume on the desks in the study-
hall, there being no room for them in the dormitory.
Wardrobes and lavatories are elsewhere. However,
these trifling matters are but the straws showing how
the wind blows.
As Notre Dame shelters fully one thousand boys
and young men for ten months of the year, one could
naturally look for considerable uproar at times. I
heard none. They drifted into dinner from all directions
with the ease and indifference of well-bred society
people. Prayer was said, the meal finished in twenty
minutes amid the usual chatter, and after grace they
drifted out again in the same fashion. The absence
of rigidity was no less conspicuous than the absence
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
35
of disorder. I did not ask how the result was produced.
Anyone who has experienced the difficulties of ruling
the perverse, mischievous, wilful multitude will ask
no questions of that kind. If there were not in us forces
working for the general good, a strong current of life
in favor of higher things, human perversity, or perhaps
petulancy, would make any discipline impossible.
Aggregations like Notre Dame are better viewed
from above than from the level plain, and I surveyed
it from a height one morning, after its variety had made
an impression. The Main Building, in which the
chief business of the day is transacted, reminds one of
the stately capitols of other days, with its shining
dome, fine corridors and tremendous dignity. Away
beyond the larger of the two lakes stands the Novitiate,
the nest of the community, which fashions the earnest
youth to the particular work of his life. On the banks
of the smaller lake is the little seminary, which gives
the future novice his college training. Between the
two lakes stands the community house, as large as
the ordinary college, which from its use might be called
the home of the brethren when particular duties call
them to no other residence. Then come the buildings
of the Brothers who form an integral and important
part of the Community of the Holy Cross providing
teachers and workers in various departments. They
also have their training-school and novitiate, their aims,
methods and traditions, nobly based on the spiritual
life which surrenders all to God for the good of the race.
An entire town lies before the eye, full of beautiful
buildings, gymnasium and indoor track, theatre, science
halls, junior colleges, dormitories, observatory, post-
office, with* printing-office and bakery, and all the other
36
BUDDETIN OF THB
out-buildings needful. The old, beautiful monastery
life, with its sweet activities, its mingling of the simple
and the complex, of the lowly life and the highest in-
tellectual quality, thus flourishes on the soil of Indiana
as powerfully as in the vale of Clairvaux. Who would
not thank God for it?
Bede or Bernard would find himself at home in this
place, so like what they made beautiful and compre-
hensible to their times, and begin again to make beautiful
and comprehensible to ours. Here are walks by the
lake, through the woods, across the meadows, along the
high roads; little retreats where no sound but nature’s
reaches the sensitive ear; companionship and solitude;
not only the virtues of the higher life, such as faith and
chastity, but of the lower life, too, such as industry
and patience carried on through long years for a certain
aim.
An Italian artist painted the walls of the church and of
the Main Building, devoting a third of his life to the
work, seemingly full of the ancient spirit, in love with
his art. Gregori later returned to his native Italy and
died there. The walls of Notre Dame are covered with
portraits and mementoes of the Catholic workers of the
past. The available spaces are crowded with innumer-
past. The available spaces are crowded with innumerable
objects bearing upon the history of the Church in the
Republic. Bor a quarter of a century Professor Edwards
has labored to accumulate these useful treasures, soon
to be priceless; and for another quarter of a century
he will keep up the work.* There are no endowments .
at Notre Dame, no large salaries, and no glittering in-
ducements for workers. Whatever is achieved, beyond
* Died, January 15, 1911.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
37
merely earning a living, must be its own reward. One
may say with justice, after taking in the entire beauty
of the work, that connection with it is sufficient fame
for the average monk; and these priests and brothers
whose graves lie in the shadow of the great dome have
the envy of the stranger for their share in the achieve-
ment.
To produce it in its full glory many must have labored
in peculiar ways, with many sacrifices. I sought them
out where possible. Father Stephen Badin owned
the ground, which he presented to the Bishop of Vin-
cennes, who gave it over to Father Sorin and his com-
munity on condition that they build a college within
two years. Father Badin died in Cincinnati, and his
remains now rest in a log chapel at Notre Dame, a re-
production of the chapel in which he officiated. I had
no idea a log church could be so spacious, dignified,
and holy in appearance; and no more beautiful monu-
ment could stand over the bones of a faithful priest.
The statue of Father Sorin, whose dreams were ful-
filled to the letter in the growth of his institution,
stands at the entrance of the grounds. It bears a re-
semblance to Father Hecker, although the expression
belongs more to the practical man of affairs than to
the mystic.
The living managers assembled one night in the
.auditorium for the commencement orations, rather
•quiet men in a public place, I thought; but of course
this was the hour of the orators and their parents.
The chief official, the President of the University, pre-
sided, a genial young man, with the flexible manner and
ready smile of the successful administrator. I heard him
tell the invited orator, just before he stepped on the plat-
38
BUUyBTlN OF THB
form that the audience of visitors, graduates, and
students, had assembled principally to listen to him,
and therefore, in spite of the late hour and the heat,
he must take his own time and deliver his full thought.
With such encouragement the orator earned all our
thanks by a discourse much briefer than any of his pre-
decessors, and by a graceful allusion to the influence
of the Ave Maria, which he rightly and aptly termed
the voice of Notre Dame.
Happy the community and society which owns such
a voice, so sincere, so penetrating, so sweet I I liken the
influence of that publication to the silver stream flow-
ing from the depths of the everlasting hills, through
the shades of the virgin forest into the arid world;
preserving its crystal beauty from all stain; commun-
icating to those who use its sparkling waters something
of its own clearness, sweetness and repose. In the forty
odd years of its life the magazine world has seen many
revolutions in principles, tastes, methods; its leaders
have been mired often enough by will-o’-the-wisps;
but the Ave Maria has never swerved from its course,
never changed its wholesome waters.
The personality behind it for many years, the Rev.
Daniel Hudson, seems to avoid the highway, content
to sit watching the source and flow of this perennial
stream, like an ancient hermit, for whom it is the only
connection with the outside world. The practical
topics discussed in* the magazine, its literary and other
judgments, and its general matter, prove the editor
anything but a hermit in knowledge of his times. Its
studied moderation, discreet avoidance of controversy,
delicate stories and poems, and persistent encourage-
ment of the right and fit, undoubtedly represent his
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	39
convictions, experience and temperament. Since 1865
the Ave Maria has scattered its sweetness in the world,
and many of us, old lovers of the printed word, jarred
and confused by the magazine babel of the times,
turn to it at the close of the day for that refreshment
elsewhere denied. Father Hudson reminded me some-
what of Father Hecker in his last days by his silver hair
and beard and the intense expression of his eyes; but
these unimportant details fail before the expression
of the priest in the pages of the Ave Maria.
I must say that the chief burden of my thought
concerning this modern monastery was, how did so
few accomplish this work? I found no clear answer
to the question. It amused and astonished me to
discover another Jarrow on the banks of the St. Joseph,
with all the savor of Bede’s renowned convent; but
the means seemed so inadequate compared with such
results in the short space of half a century that I gave
up the problem. The factors are simple enough: a
high aim, a noble plan, intense effort, the surplus of
the community turned into development, the blessing
of God; but while these things inevitably earn success,
they do not always produce the unique. Therefore,
I came away delighted and wondering, and for satis-
faction I must take the same road back again another
June day.
40
buij^tin of thb
4
The Miracle of Notre Dame.
Rbv. John Tafbot Smith, LL- D.
[From the Catholic News of July io, 1909]
A TWO hours’ ride from Chicago eastward lands
the traveler on the grounds of the University of
Notre Dame, unique among the Catholic ed-
ucational institutions of the country. The golden dome
of the Main Building dominates the landscape for
miles, and where its glittering strength does not pen-
etrate, the great bell of the church near by, which '
booms on the air like the muffled roar of the surf at
Long Beach, carries the glories of Mary, the patroness
of the University. The lake in the rear of the Main
Building, fed by streams pouring up from its bed of
marl, reflects the yellow mass of buildings with cryst-
talline clearness. Brom every point of the horizon the
dome is visible, and at night the electric lights about the
statue of Mary on its summit locate it for the eye.
One never recovers from the wonder caused by the
immensity of this institution. It is a town in itself,
in size of territory, form, population and activities.
The Main Building looks like the capitol of a state.
Two good-sized lakes of spring water beautify the ’
^grounds, and beautiful groves shade their shores.
The athletic grounds are worthy of an imperial city.
The gymnasium and indoor track would shame New
York, the theatre seats twelve hundred persons,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
41
the various dormitories and houses shelter fifteen*
hundred.
Everything is on a grand scale, and it must be,,
because this year the number of students passed the
one thousand mark. This event had consequences..
There was not room in the University for the number.
Twenty-five students had to be placed for the time nr
the boarding houses of the town. They did not wish
to go, for life is too pleasant in Notre Dame, too novel
to be given up for the ways of an ordinary city. Others^
were provided for in an old building with historic
memories. It was the original college in which Father
Sorin, the founder, began his great work. It stands
within a few feet of the second lake, a brick structure^,
three stories high, one of which is below the ground
level on the south side. It is a mere dot amid the great
buildings which surround it. From this little seed
grew the wonders all around. A few feet from it is a
modest log chapel, a replica of the first church in North-
ern Indiana, in which Father Stephen Badin,' the
first priest ordained in the Republic, used to say Mass.
His remains now lie beneath it. Perhaps a score of
young men lived in the old college during the last
session, seniors mostly, who rigged up their rooms in
the picturesque fashion of the college boy. They
made it a delightful place, and gave me, the visitor,;
an evening to myself to see the “grad” at home, in
his best clothes and finest manners, entertaining his
friends. The door of the room opened out on a balcony
overl ookin g the lake, the moon shone on the water,
the stars overhead, and the lights of the Seminary
gleamed on the opposite shore. What fine fellows,
what happy, kindly, innocent’ faces, in which shone
42
BULLETIN OF THE
hope, energy and goodness! And they were as proud
of their old, historic quarters as a nobleman of his
ancestral castle.
Think of a single college administration providing
for the daily needs of fifteen hundred persons, over one
thousand of them young men and boys. It would
take some space to tell how it is done. The storehouses
tell one part of the tale, with the small railroad from
the main line carting the freight to their doors. The
new dormitory tells another part. It will be ready for
occupation in September, and has been built after
plans which took into consideration the best dormi-
tories known. It has been named in honor of Father
Walsh, a former president of the University, who died
in his youth, as bitterly regretted as he was deeply
loved; and it will enable every student to find shelter
next year without going to the town. While it was
going up, the workmen enjoyed an experience new to
them; during recreation hours the students stood
about in numbers watching with interest the rising
of the walls, commenting audibly upon the brick apd
mortar, the capacity of the masons, the probabilities
of completion. Some of them in the darkness of the
night undertook to lay the brick. It became a fad to
inspect the work at least once in the day, and a common
phrase among the lads was: “Let us go over and see
how our new building is getting on.” It is a com-
mentary on life and the erratic philosophies of life to
watch the daily capers of these boys. To live among
them is to become young, jovial, saucy, thoughtless,
as if the sap of youth were again pouring through your
veins. And their teachers told me, even he who had
the responsibility of the University discipline on his
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
43
shoulders, that this feeling is theirs no less than the
visitor’s. The prefect of discipline, a young man with
gray hair, holds a position akin to that of a general of
a division. He is responsible for everything, from the
day the University opens to the end. He did not seem
to mind the work half so much as I did the mere thought
of it.
But these professors and disciplinarians are trained
to. the work from their boyhood. It is part of them,
and they fit into it like parts of a machine; the more
important the part the harder its metal. The President
of the University, Father Cavanaugh, is hardly forty,
and looks younger, has a plump, smiling face, without
a trace of care, so easily does well-trained youth lay
aside at will its burdens. The mere daily admin-
istration he evidently considers an easy matter: the
running of the different departments, the keeping up
of the standard, and the entertainment of innumerable
visitors. The real problems of university life are not
concerned with such matters, and are kept for discussion
at the council board. But they must bite into the
soul. Notre Dame is a miracle, but its expenses must
be easily one thousand dollars a day. And the gifts
of the interested outsiders in sixty years have not yet
footed up $100,000. The whole labor of the Holy
Cross community and the profits of the institution have
been turned into Notre Dame. Fortunately the people
at large are waking up to its existence and importance
and increased registration is the consequence. But
there should be endowment to meet the increased
demands for buildings and professors.
Among the professors there was one who had taken
his degree in the Catholic University, and the thesis
44
bubbftin of thf
which won him his honors quite amazed me. It was
a discussion of the ethical side of the modern drama.
The author had seen very few plays. His investigations
had all been made in libraries, by means of current
reviews; yet he had reached conclusions as accurate
as William Winter himself, and his estimate of con-
ditions was as high as it ought to be. As a rule, our
students of literature suffer a Puritan horror of the
drama, or fear to irritate their superiors by any show
of esteem for it, or feel bound to condemn it on the usual
hearsay. Father Carrico, of Notre Dame, discussed
it academically, and reached conclusions quite opposed
to those of clerical tradition and sincerely in accord
with the facts and common sense. We expect such
things from university professors, but we do not often
get what we have a right to expect from them. How-
ever, one star of hope shines on the horizon.
There is one spot on the University grounds which
bleeds,—the spot where Brownson lies buried. His
remains lie in the centre of the common chapel, under
the great church, an oblong marble stone with an in-
scription marking the place. The Holy Cross community
meets here for the morning mediatation and Mass, and
for the evening prayer. The holy life of Notre Dame
surges aH about his body. The innocent boys come
and go on their spiritual duties, and sometimes pause
to read the epitaph. The great spirit, which had to
struggle always in heavy conditions, is now in glory,
we trust; and the body which enshrined it lies like a
jewel in a worthy frame. But the cause for which he
strove—the diffusion of Christian truth by means of
a great press—is hardly better than in his day, and with
less excuse; for now the Catholic body has a sure foot-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
45
ing, wealth, culture and leaders; and still the young
writers have no market for printing, the leaders no
organs of opinion, and the multitude no mirror of their
own activities. Therefore, the writers must seek
the secular field, the leaders remain silent or half heard,
and the multitude sink in the flood of printed trash.
Then remember that the Catholics of Germany, with our
population, have 500 publications of all sorts, of which
225 are dailies; also that the Catholic writers of Ger-
many have an organization of one thousand members,
and that they run an employment agency and a pension
bureau for their members. Brownson’s grave is a
sweet but sad feature of Notre Dame.