Series VIII.	■	Number IV.
■	' OF THE . L
University of Notre Dame
NOTREDAME, INDIANA	. ■■
GENERAL CATALOGUE .	‘
i ' -	'	1912-1913
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME /
' .	■ THE UNIVERSITY. PRESS '
;	-	APRIL,. J9J3..
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, J 905
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
Noire Dame., Indiana
Series VIII.
Number IV.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
GENERAL CATALOGUE
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
APRIL, 1913
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, 1905
2
BULLETIN or THB
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
.	NOTRN DAM^, INDIANA.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Ham. in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into’ South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is 41 degrees, 43
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable*
for a healthful climate where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great fatigue or
danger to health.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
3
S$PT.
1913
9i IO-
ii.
i6, 17.
18.
21.
Oct.	13.
27.
Nov. 1.
17, 18.
27.
Duc. 6.
8.
11.
20.
Jan.	6.
30, 3i-
Fub.	2.
22.
27.
March 17.
19.
April 12.
i3-
17, 18.
May	20.
30.
Juns i.
8, 9, 10.
io, 12.
11.
13-
14.
i5-
16, 17.
CALENDAR FOR 1913-14.
Entrance Examinations and Examination of
Conditioned Students in the Preparatory-
School. Registration.
Preparatory School Opens.
Entrance Examinations and Examination of
Conditioned Students in the Colleges. Regis-
tration.
Colleges Open.
Reading of University Regulations in all the
Halls.
Founder’s Bay.
Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
Feast of All Saints. No Classes. .
Mid-Term Examinations.
Thanksgiving Day. No Classes.
The William P. Breen Medal Orations.
Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No Classes.
President’s Bay. No Classes.
Christmas Vacation Begins.
Classes Resume.
Term Examinations.
Second Term Begins.
Washington’s Birthday. No Classes. Presenta-
tion of Flag by the Senior Class.
State Oratorical Contest.
St. Patrick’s Bay.
St. Joseph’s Bay.
Easter. No Easter Vacation.
Easter Monday. No Classes.
Mid-Term Examinations.
Latest Bate for Handing in Prize Essays and
Graduating Theses in all the Colleges.
Decoration Day. No Classes.
The Patrick T. Barry Medal Recitations.
The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations.
Examination of Candidates for Graduation.
Examinations in Preparatory School.
Commencement in Preparatory School.
Vacation in Preparatory School Begins.
Baccalaureate Sermon. Meeting of the Alumni.
Commencement. Bachelors’ Orations, 10:00
a. m. Commencement Address and Gradu- ,
ation Exercises, 8:00 p. m.	z
Examinations in the Colleges.
4
bulletin of the
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
Rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
secretary;
REV. JOSEPH'MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
5
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
prefect of discipline.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
secretary.
6	bulletin of the
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Special English.
REV- MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.;
History.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Scholastic Philosophy.
Rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology and Geology.
Rev. JOHN BERNARD SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Accounting.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy. *
Rev. PATRICK CARROLL, C. S. C.,
English and Irish History.
REV. MICHAEL OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek and Latin.
Rev. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Botany and Chemistry.
Rev. WALTER LAVIN, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
Rev. MIECESLAUS SZALEWSKI, C. S. C.,
Polish Language and History.
9
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	7
REV. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C. S. C.,
English and Ethics.
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
.	Physics.
REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. CORNELIUS J. HAGERTY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
rev. WILLIAM A. BOLGER, C. S. C.,
Political Economy and Sociology.
Rev. ERNEST DAVIS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. PAUL FOIK, C. S. C.,
Librarian.
Rev. JOHN TALBOT SMITH, LL. D.,
Lecturer on English Literature.
Rev. FRANCISCO MARIN, O. P.,
Spanish.
Bro. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.	'
DAMIS PAUL,
Piano and Violin.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D, K. S. G.,
Law.
MARTIN McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.-
8
BULBBXIN OB THE
TIMOTHY EDWARD HOWARD, A. M., LT. D.,
Law.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Mechanical Drawing.
JEROME JOSEPH GREEN, M. E. E. E.,
Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics and Surveying.
GALLITZIN FARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
Law.
CAPTAIN R. R. STOGSDALL, U. S. A„ Retired,
Military Science and Tactics.
JAMES KEELEY,
J ournalism.
ANDREW ANDERSON,
Law.
ARTHUR LUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
ROBERT LEE GREEN, Ph. G.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.
ROLLAND ADELSPERGER, A. B., B. S. A., A. I. A.,
Architecture.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
9
FRANCIS WYNNB KBRVICK, B. S. in Arch.,
Architecture.
KNOWLBS B. SMITH, B. M.,
Mining Engineering.
JAMBSIHINBS, Ph. B.,
History.
JOSBPH CALLAHAN, A. M., LL. B.,
Law.
JOHN M. COONBY, A. M.,
Journalism and English.
CHARLBMAGNB KOBHLBR, A. M.,
Dramatics and Oratory.
JBSSB VBRA, M. B. B. B.}
Mathematics.
JOSB ANGBL CAPARO, M. S.,
Electrical Engineering and Physics.
MAX PAM,
Lecturer on Law.
THOMAS STBINBR, C. B.,
Mathematics. ■
JOHN WORD BN, B. S.,
Freehand Drawing and' Modeling.
FRANCIS J. POWBRS, M. S., M. D.,
A ttending Physician.
CARL BGGBRT,
Shopwork.
IO
bulletin of the
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
Rev. Thomas J. Irving, C. S. C.
Rev. William P. Lennartz, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
Rev. Michael Quinlan, C. S. C.
Rev. James McManus, C. S. C.
Rev. Hugh McCauley, C. S. C.
CORBY HALL
REv. John Farley, C. S. C.
Rev. Charles Doremus, C. S. C.
Rev. Francis McGarry, C. S. C.
WALSH HALL
a
Rev. George McNamara, C. S. C.
Rev. Paul Miller, C. S. C.
Rev. Francis Maher, C. S. C.
Mr. Francis Albertson •
BROWNSON HALL
Bro. Alphonsus, C. S. C.
Bro. Hugh, C. S. C.
Bro. Casimir, C. S. C.
Bro. Alan, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
Bro. Just, C. S. C.	*
Bro. Louis, C. S. C.
Bro. Maurilius, C. S. C.
Bro. Aloysius, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
Rev. Matthew Schumacher, C. S. C. Bro. Florian, C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
Bro. Cajetan, C. S. C.	Bro. Bede, C. S. C,
Bro. Leander, C. S. C.
DUJARIE HALL
Bro. Aidan, C. S. C.	Bro. Joseph, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
II
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842 by the Very Reverend Fdward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is: .
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Bdward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body, corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted,
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as is customary in other
universities in the United States.”
12
BULLETIN OB THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-
halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-
rooms are in this building. The Library and the
Bishops’ Memorial Hall are also here temporarily.
This building, like all the others of the University,
is lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by steam.
The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
n ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 65,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
department of literary criticism, . history, political
science and the Greek and Latin classics are well rep-
resented. Special libraries containing reference works
on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science. The College of Law has
a complete library of its own. Ample reading room
is provided in the main library. The best literary
magazines and reviews, as well as current numbers
of scientific and technical journals are kept on file.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
13
Students have access to the Library from 8:00 A. M.
to 9:00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width,
and about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms
of the Department of Music, the reading rooms for
Brownson and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre.
The theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings.
It will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent
in public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also pre-
sented in this theatre. The dramatic clubs, of the
University present several plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall.
Its dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three
stories in height. A large central space, the full height
of the building, is occupied by a museum contain-
ing mineral, fossil and biological specimens. The
departments of Physics, Civil Engineering, Philosophy,
Botany and Biology have recitation rooms and labo-
ratories in this building. The equipment for each of
these departments is extensive and complete. De-
scription of the equipment will be found later in this
catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is
well arranged for convenience of study. The sociological
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative ver-
14
BTOE^TIN OB THB
tebrate skeletons forms a considerable part of the
museum.
Facilities for the publication of research on subjects
of natural history are afforded in the pages of the
American Midland Naturalist, which appears bi-monthly
from the laboratory of botany at the University.
The collection in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a
series of cases on each side of the building. In one
series is a carefully classified collection of minerals
and ores. The opposite series of cases contain a large
geological collection; some of the specimens here
are of the rarest fossil remains of animal and plant
life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture room. The second floor
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and
contains a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern
drug store, a lecture room and museum, a library for
pharmaceutical publications, and a general stock-room.
The general inorganic, organic and elementary chemical
laboratories are on the third floor. Bach laboratory
is provided with ample hood accommodations, and
each desk is furnished with water, gas and suction.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop for
wood-work and also contains a well lighted drawing
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
15
room where students in designing may consult complete
workings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market. In this building are likewise
the dynamo laboratory, designing room and recitation
rooms of the Electrical Engineering department.
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Lab-
oratories and is designed for an equatorial telescope
and for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial
telescope now in the building 'is intended for students
of astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
SORIN HALL	.
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students
of full Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of
the Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room and
a law library. The building is lighted with electricity
and heated with steam. In the basement are recre-
ation rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with rec-
reation rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted
with electrictiy and gas and heated with steam.
WALSH HALL
This newest dormitory building is situated South
of Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions
BULLETIN of the
are 230 feet by 41 feet. It faces Bast and all the
front rooms are made up of suites each consisting
of a commodious study room, flanked on either side
by a bedroom. Attached to each suite is a private
bath and toilet. Bach room is supplied with hot
and cold water. The rear rooms are singles and the
general toilet and bath rooms are of hollow, fire-proof
tile, walls and ceilings covered with wire lath and
plaster, making practically a fire proof building. It
is equipped with a distinct system of stand-pipes for
fighting fire. The entire corridor floors are built of
reinforced concrete, covered with Roman ceramic
mosaics. In finish and equipment Walsh Hall is
believed to be the best college dormitory building
in America. It embraces three stories besides the
admirable basement and attic, and it is capable of
accommodating over a hundred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of
age and upwards. There is a common study hall,
a common lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms
in which each student has an alcove curtained to secure
a personal privacy. Bxperience shows that the dis-
cipline of these common rooms works admirable effects
on students who have not yet contracted .solid habits
of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Adminis-
tration Building. It is in all respects similar to Brown-
son Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	17
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively
to living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The
conditions for admission to this hall are: (i) The pay-
ment of twro hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the
first of August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter.
The waiting in nowise interferes with the student’s
work, and all the educational advantages are open
to him. It is to be regretted that through the lack
of endowment the University can offer only a limited
number of such opportunities each year. It is neces-
sary to apply early for these appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for
the use of students during illness. The sick are cared
for by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University
physician visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, wrs replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet
on the ground. The track-hall is now 100 by 180
feet on the ground. It is used for indoor meets, winter
baseball practice, basketball and military drill. The
gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with
a full set of apparatus; below that are the offices,
dressing rooms and shower baths. Friends of the
University and the alumni contributed more than
i8
BULLETIN OF THE?
three thousand dollars to the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten
acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. M., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University: Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall,
the Community House, the . Presbytery, and Saint
Edward’s Hall, the last-named being a school for
children under the age of thirteen, in care of the Sisters
of the Holy Cross.	-
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on .the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his
own curriculum conformably to his natural liking,
the career in life he may have in view, or the deter-
minate intellectual bent developed during his secondary
school years; but, though he is free to elect his own
studies, he has not, however, unlimited freedom in
this respect. The principle of general election is mod-
ified. Lest the young Freshman in his inexperience
choose unwisely, he is aided in making his choice of
studies by being permitted to select from among a
number of parallel programs leading to baccalaureate
degrees. Eighteen programs are open for his choice
in the Colleges, each embracing courses which, in the
opinion of the Faculty, contribute best to cultural,
scientific or professional knowledge. These programs
are, in some cases, made elastic by the introduction
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	19
of elective courses, especially in the Junior and Senior
years. Students who wish to spend a limited time
in study and can not complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special students
and elect any course for which their preparation has
fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for preparation of recitations. One hour
of recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours
of laboratory work. The minimum number of credit
hours which a student must carry, except in his Senior
year, is sixteen, the maximum number which he may
ordinarily carry is twenty. Students who wish to
take more work than is indicated by the maximum
number must apply by formal petition to the
Faculty for the requisite permission.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by
a properly attested certificate, of ability to enter on
the courses of the Freshman year. The specific sub-
jects required for entrance will be found later in this
catalogue.
. Examinations in all the subjects required for ad-
mission to the University are held|at Notre Dame in
September, the beginning of the Fall Term, and in
February, the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examina-
tions in one or more of the subjects required for
admission to any college program may, at the dis-
cretion of the Faculty, be admitted to his class con-
20
BU®L,®TIN O® TH®
ditioned, to make up his deficiency by extra study
within one school year. Only when the conditions
are removed will the student be admitted to full stand-
ing in his class.	.
Students who have completed a four year course
in High Schools or Preparatory Schools of recognized
standing will be admitted without examination to
the Freshman year of any program to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing
who are required to take examinations must pass,
in addition to the usual entrance examinations, an
examination in the work already done by the classes
they desire to enter. The additional subjects may be
found in the several programs of studies described
later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present
certificates from other colleges or universities may
be received at the discretion of the Faculty with or
without examination as regards particular cases.
No students will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.
It is recommended that Latin, Modern language
or history be taken as electives under the College of
Letters; that Modern language, or science be taken
as electives under the Colleges of Science, Engineering
and Architecture; that French be the language chosen
for Architecture; that language and history be taken
as electives for the College of Law.
M
<N
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIOUS COLLEGES IN SUBJECTS AND UNITS
COLLEGES
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
SUBJECTS		ARTS		LETTERS*	SCIENCE	ENGINEERING	ARCHITECTURE	LAW
		Units		Units	Units	Units	Units	Units
English					/I	/1	J	4	
Eatin			.1		..2 or 4.. .		2			4r	
Greek								or L			... 2 or 4 .
French, German or Spanish History					..,.2+			2 J..	O	O		2	+ ..
		O		0	0	f 0		0
Algebra 			T		T	.. .. i X • • • •	.... 1 y....	....i y....	T
Geometry			I		T	. . . . I po . . . .	....1y ....	.... 1 y....	T
Trigonometry								y....		y....	
Chemistry			t			t			.... T	T	T	-x I .T. . .
Physics			I 1		b	I	T	T	A +	
Botany, Physiology, Zoology, Physiography. . .. Drawing					b				J	Mt
						y....		y....		y>....	
Elective									/ *
									
Total			...16			. . .16		.... 16		.... 16		.... 16		.... 16	
								
* Including Departments of Letters, History and Economics and Journalism.
t Four units of Language required. + For admission to the College of Arts and Letters and Law one unit of Science is required.
22
BULLETIN OB THE
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by
the University will be found described in this cat-
alogue. Written theses and formal examinations are
demanded of all candidates for degrees. One full
scholastic year of resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered -to candidates
for the degree of Bachelor extend by fixed pro-
grams throughout the four scholastic years. In
the College of Arts and Tetters four degrees are
conferred—Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of
Letters (Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.),
Bachelor of Philosophy in Journalism (Ph. B. in Jour.)—
dependent on the special program of studies the can-
didate selects. The College of Science offers six de-
grees for choice to undergraduates—Bachelor of Science
(B. S.), Bachelor of Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.),
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Bachelor
of Science in Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.), Graduate in
Pharmacy (Ph. G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.).
The College of Engineering offers five degrees—Civil
Engineer (C. E.), Mechanical Engineer (M. E-), Elec-
trical Engineer (E. E.), Mining Engineer (E. M.),
and Chemical Engineer (Ch. E.). Two degrees are
offered by the College of Architecture—Bachelor of
Science in; Architecture (B. S. A.), and Bachelor of
Science in Architectural Engineering (B. S. A. E.).
The College of Law offers the degree of Bachelor of
Laws (LL. B.). In the College of Music one degree
is offered—Bachelor of Music (B. M.). In order to
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	23
obtain this degree the candidate must have studied
music in the University for one complete year. He
must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of four
instruments mentioned in the courses described later,
and a practical mastery of one of them. He shall
pass a written examination in harmony, counter-
point and composition, and he must submit to the
examiner two original compositions: (a) a fugue for
full orchestra, or for four voices with independent
orchestral accompaniment: (b) a composition in the
free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or a trio
(pianoforte, violin and violincello).
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one
complete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who
make application to the Committee of the Faculty
on Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing ad-
vanced work. All work must be approved by this
Committee. One year of residence, at least, is re-
quired of candidates who have received their Bachelor’s
degree at another college. Those who have received
their Bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in
some cases to be determined by the Committee, obtain
the Master’s degree for work done in absentia.* One
major and one or two minor courses will constitute
the curriculum, forming a consistent coordinated
plan of advanced work pursued with some definite
aim. On completion of the required work the candidate
* No degree is conferred in honorem except the degree of
Doctor of Laws (LL. D.)
24
bulletin of the
must pass a satisfactory examination in writing, under
the professors who give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a dis-
sertation of notable merit on some topic connected
with his major subject, the thesis to contain in the
minimum five thousand words. The subject of the
thesis must be announced to the Committee by December
i, and submitted for examination by May 15. Five
printed or typewritten copies of the thesis must be
presented to the University to be placed in the library.
The fee for examination of work done in absentia is
twenty-five dollars. The fee for this degree is fixed
at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity work before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these must be spent at Notre Dame
and one may be passed at some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactorily ex-
aminations in French and German on entrance. The
work for the degree shall consist of one major and twro
minor courses of instruction approved by the Committee.
Research study shall form the most important part
of the candidate’s work. On completion of his work
the candidate must pass minute examinations on the
three subjects of his curriculum and must defend his
dissertation before the whole Faculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies
presented to the University. A copy of the thesis
must be handed to the Committee one month before
the examinations. The degree will not be conferred
for merely faithful work, and not for miscellaneous
study, but for original research and for high attain-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
25
ment in one branch of study. The fee for this degree
is fixed at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates
for a degree by following the prescribed courses of
any program may register as special students and
attend any of the courses of instruction for which
their previous academic training has fitted them.
Such special students are governed by the same regu-
lations and discipline as the other undergraduates.
They are required to pass the same examinations in
the courses they pursue as the other students. In
exceptional cases men of mature age, who have been
. out of school or college for several years, but whose
training in practical affairs has been sufficiently educa-
tive, will be accepted as special students by satisfying
the Faculty of their ability to pursue with profit any
course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may
receive on application certificates stating their pro-
ficiency in the courses they have pursued.
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has at present only four foundations
which yield revenues for the support and tuition of
four students annually. Assignment of these scholar-
ships is made under restrictions indicated with each
gift. No student will be continued in the enjoyment
of a scholarship whose superiority in college work is
not clearly indicated in his first year of residence.
Nor will a student who has incurred serious censure
by breach of the regulations of the University be con-
sidered again as a candidate for a scholarship.
/ J
26
BULLETIN OF THE
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of endow-
ment makes it impossible for the University to give
place to a greater number of deserving students who
are not able to pay the charges of board and tuition.
Under conditions indicated on page 17 of this catalogue
a limited number of deserving student-waiters can
be received at reduced rates. Certain clerkships in
the University offices and positions in the libraries
are also open to worthy students. Information re-
garding the assignment of these places will be furnished
by the President. The University is doing all in its
power to assist students in narrow circumstances.
The friends of Notre Dame are asked to assist in this
work.
THE JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Bdward Johnson, of Watertown, Wis-
consin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the income
of which aids in the support of one student annually.
By the terms of the gift assignment is made only to
a student who intends to enter the priesthood.
THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
The Reverend Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Penn-
sylvania, bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899.
The terms of the bequest specify that the income shall
be used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Tordr of Chicago, gave to
the University certain properties for the maintenance
of worthy students. The income arising from this
gift now supports fully two students annually. By
the wish of the donor nominations for these scholar-
ships are made from St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
27
PRIZES
The following prizes and honors within the gift
of the University are awarded annual^ under con-
ditions named below. Any of these prizes may be
withheld by the Faculty if the student incur serious
censure for violating any of the regulations of the
University.
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who has
obtained the best record in the Senior year of the
Classical Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. William
J. Quan, of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition
that the record of the student is notably good in all
the courses of instruction prescribed for the Senior
year.
THE MASON MEDAL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of Chi-
cago, is awarded each year to the student of the Pre-
paratory School whose scholastic record is superior
to that of his fellows. Observance of the University
regulations counts in the award. The prize may be
withheld if in the opinion of the Faculty the record of
the student has not reached a high standard.
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of
Covington, Ky., is awarded every year to the Senior
(undergraduate) who presents the best dissertation
in English. Essays offered in competition may be
on any subject approved by the head of the Depart-
ment of English. Those offered for graduation may
be presented in competition. The faculty will not
award the prize, if, in the opinion of the judges selected,
the best essay is not notably meritorious.
28	bulletin of the
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
Breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded
to the student who excels in oratory. The award is
made by a committee of three selected by the Faculty
and after a public competition. The winner repre-
sents the University in the Indiana State Oratorical
Contest held the third Friday in every February. No
student may receive the Breen Medal more than once,
but the winner of this prize may compete again for
the honor of representing the University in the State
Contest.
There is also a ten-dollar prize offered for the winners
of the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Preparatory
contests in oratory.
THE MARTIN J. McCUE MEDAL FOR
CIVIL ENGINEERING
The McCue Medal for Civil Engineering, presented
by Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the Class
of '87, is awarded to the student of the Department of
Civil Engineering who has obtained the best record in
all the courses prescribed in the program. The medal is
awarded only when the student’s record has attained a
fixed standard. In computing the grades the courses in
mathematics count fifty per cent. Only students
who have been in residence for four full years are
eligible to compete for this prize.	•
THE MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Eyons Medal
and the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every
year for excellence in elocution. The award is made
after competition in public. In order to be eligible
to compete, students must have followed at least
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
29
two of the courses of instruction in public speaking.
One of the medals was founded in memory of Professor
Joseph A. Lyons, of the Class of ’62, who served the
University as Professor of Blocution and Oratory
from 1872 to 1888. The other is a gift of Mr. Patrick
T. Barry, of Chicago.
THE PRIZE FOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize of seventy-five dollars is awarded to three
students, who, in the opinion of a committee of judges
from without the Faculty, excel in debating. The-
award is made after a competition in public. The
prize is divided, thirty dollars going to the student
who receives the highest marks, twenty-five dollars,
to the second, and twenty dollars to the third. The
three students who are successful in the competition
ordinarily represent the University in the principal
intercollegiate debate of the year.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing
will be sent to .parents and guardians quarterly.
The Faculty maintains that an education which
gives little attention to the development of the moral
part of a youth’s character is pernicious, and that
it is impossible to bring about this development where
students are granted absolute relaxation from all
Faculty government while outside the class-room.
A young man must learn obedience to law by the actual
practice of obedience. Here students are required
to obtain permission for any departure from the regular
daily routine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
30
BUWyETlN OF THB
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are enforced at the University.
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Baster.
3.	Students are required to report at the Uni-
versity immediately after arriving at South Bend.
This rule is binding not only at the beginning of the
scholastic year, but at all other times when leave of
absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in
South Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of
rule.
4.	flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating
in examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, im-
morality, the use of profance and obscene language,
and an unauthorized absence from the' University
limits are among the causes for expulsion. In case
of suspension or expulsion for such offences, no fee
shall be returned.
5.	The use of cigarettes is strictly forbidden, a
second offence being punished by suspension for one
month.
6.	No branch of study shall be taken up or dis-
continued without the consent of the Director of
Studies.
7.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brown-
son, Carroll or St. Bd ward’s Hall according to age;
boys seventeen years of age or older are placed in
Brownson Hall; those over thirteen and under seven-
teen, in Carroll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St.
Bdward’s Hall.
8.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
31
students of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls
as have received from their parents written permission
to use tobacco.	■
9.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin,
. Corby or Walsh Halls leads to suspension.
Qio. Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
Catholic institution, and all students are required
to attend divine service in the University Church at
stated times.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense
of study will not be permitted; but students are ex-
pected to take part in outdoor sports.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is per-
mitted with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
j of professionalism.
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members
of the Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve
the right of a final decision on all questions concern-
ing athletics. The Faculty Board will determine
the amateur standing of the members of the athletic
teams and apportion the finances. By this means
indiscreet and unconsidered action of students will
be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
' before the students.- Among those who have ad-
dressed the University in the past few years may
be noted five Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli,
32
BULLETIN or THE
Martinelli and Falconio, Monsignors Agius and Bon-
zano; Cardinal Farley; Archbishops Ireland, Riordan,
Keane, Glennon, Christie and Spalding; and Bishops
Alerding, McQuaid, Maes, Muldoon, O'Gorman, Shanley,
Hickey, Hanna and MacSherry. There were also
such noted European churchmen as the Abbe Felix
Klein, Bishop John S. Vaughan and the foremost
of living English historians, Dom Gasquet; also men
of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford, Marion Crawford,
Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van Dyke, Seumas
MacManus,* William Butler Yeats, James Jeffrey Roche,
Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read, Leland Powers,
Henry James and the Rev. John Talbot Smith; and
such men of affairs as ex-President Taft, ex-Vice-Pres-
ident Fairbanks, ex-Senator Hill, ex-Senator Beveridge,
ex-Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, ex-
Representatives J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William
P. Breen, ex-Representative Bourke Cochran, Dr. James
C. Monaghan, Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward
■McDermott, His Excellency Wu ting Fang, William
Jennings Bryan, Senator B. F. Shively, Max Pam,
Governor J. Harmon, Hannis Taylor and Chief-Justice
Fitzpatrick of Canada.
Concerts are given frequently by organizations from
without.
During the year 1912-13 the University offered a
course of public lectures and concerts in Washington
Had, in addition to the regular and special lectures
required by the courses of instruction. The course
was as follows:
DRAMATICS
Dec. 10. “David Garrick.”—University Dramatic Club.
Feb. 25. “Bob Martin, the Substitute Half-Back.”—
Philopatrians.
Mar. 24. “A Night Off.”—Senior Class.
May 15. Student Vaudeville.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
33
	CONCERTS
Sispt. 19. “	26. Oct. 22. “	3i- Nov. 8. “ ■	16. “	23. Dec. 7. “	18. Jan. 7. “	25. Reb. i . “	27. Mar. 15. “	3i-	Elbel’s Band. t<	u The Ernest Gamble Concert Party. The Frank Croxton Quartet. LaCosta Song Recital. Boston Philharmonic Orchestra. Zellman Trio. The Hussars. Horatio Connell—Baritone. Commonwealth Male Quartet. Whitney Recital Company. Shubert Mixed Quartet. Four Artists Company. Bostonia Sextette. Skovgaard Concert Party.
LECTURES
Oct.	5-	Arthur B. Kackel.—“ The Music Master.” (Reading.)
C C	9-	Newman Travelogue—“Holland.”
c<	16.	“	“	—“Rural France.”
t c	23-	“	“	—“Switzerland.”
Nov.	2.	“	“	—“Munich to Berlin.”
c <	6.	“	“	—“The Top of the World.”
I (	11.	Dr. James J. Walsh.—“The World’s Indebtedness to the Italian.”
	12.	Ralph Bingham.—Entertainer.
11	26.	Mr. James Keeley.—“Newspaper Work.”
Dec.	3-	Charles W. Seymour.—“Santa Sophia.”
<«	14.	Hon. Timothy S. Hogan.—“Good Government.”
Jan.	15.	Charlemagne Koehler.—“ Everywoman.”
c c	24.	Thomas A. Daly.—“Our Neighbors.”
Feb.	12.	Montaville Flowers.—“Hamlet.”
Mar.	12.	W. H. Field.—“The Business End of the Newspaper.”
	20.	F. N. Scott.—“How to Read the Newspaper.”
Apr.	2.	Phidelah Rice.—“Peaceful Valley.” (Reading.)
<<	12.	Rogers & Grilley.—Entertainers.
2
34
BULLETIN OE THE
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies
in the University which do such creditable work at
their meetings and in preparation for them that their
work takes on the nature of added courses of instruction.
In each society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser.
An Inter-Hall League has been formed and public
debates are held annually. The College of Law also
has an active debating club. The training in public
speaking has always received special attention at
the University. In nineteen public debates with other
universities and colleges Notre Dame has but once
met defeat—the decision of the judges in the greater
number of these debates being unanimous. The Uni-
versity Dramatic Club and the Philopatrian Society '
stage at least three plays annually for presentation in
public. The University Band, the University Orchestra
and the University Glee Club also appear regularly
in concerts.
Students of the Departments of Civil and Electrical
Engineering and Architecture have each a society in
which papers on engineering subjects are read and
discussed. Men prominent in their profession are invited
to lecture to these societies. The Pharmaceutical
Society meets to discuss subjects of interest in the world
of pharmacy. In other departments where no such
formal organization has been effected similar results
are reached by seminars. '
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
35
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).........$ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linen, per school year................. 400.00
PAYABLE ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)..........$	10.co
First Payment on Board and Tuition.................. 250.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the
year............................................  10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course.. ..	5.00
Spending money or orders for clothing will not be given
students unless a deposit has been made for this purpose.
In this First Payment must also' be included any Extra
Expense the student may wish to incur, such as charges for
Private Room or Special Courses (listed below).
PAYABLE ON JANUARY 15
Balance on Board and Tuition.....................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time of absence at the opening
of the Terms, September and February. The charge of $400.00
covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic
Year. The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for Tuition
during the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole
or part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the
fundamental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby
brought to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving
and absenting himself from the University at any time or for
any cause without proper permission. However, an exception
BULLETIN or THE
is made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home
because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not be
conferred on any student whose account with the University
has not been settled.
OPTIONAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE
For the Scholastic Year:
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free, but a nominal
charge of $15.00 is made to defray expenses connected
with the care of rooms; Freshmen. . . .$50.00 and upwards.
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made
only to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions;
that is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the
Preparatory and Freshman work, otherwise regular rent will
be charged for rooms. Similarly, only unconditioned Fresh-
men are allowed the special rate quoted above.
Preparatory Students...............$80.00	and upwards.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular courses of the programs they have entered,
any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Scholastic Year, payable in advance. The charges are pro
rata for any portion of the year.

Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment...............$60.00
Use of Piano for Advanced
Students...........$30.00
Telegraphy............25.00
Typewriting, Full Course 20.00
One month........... 5.00
Phonography...........15.00
Applied Electricity.... 25.00
Vocal Culture........ 75.00
Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
Cornet, Clarinet or Man-
dolin...................$30.00
Lessons on Violin....... 60.00
*Use of each instrument 5.00
Artistic Drawing........25.00
Elocution, Special Course
Physical
Per Term..............10.00
‘ ‘ Scholastic^’—College
Paper ................ 1.50
Library Fee.............. 5.00
....... $5-oo
Laboratory fees listed later in this catalogue.
* As the string and band instruments available for rent are few, students
taking up’these studies are advised to furnish their own instruments.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	37
GRADUATION FEE
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00;
Commercial Course, $5.00.
REMARKS
Term bills and other accounts are subject to sight draft if not
paid 'within ten days after they have been rendered.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory
Fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post-office money
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will
be charged in all cases.
, Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed
during the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend
their Summer Vacation under the care of the University author-
ities can be accommodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jose Park is $100.00. Classes
(two hours per day) are included in this arrangement. Special
tutoring at professors’ rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at
reduced rates. For conditions of entrance see paragrap hen-
titled St. Joseph’s Hall,
COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF CLASSICS
DEPARTMENT OF LETTERS
DEPARTMENT OF HISTORY AND ECONOMICS
DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	39.
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
establishment of the College of Science in 1865, only one
program of prescribed courses of instruction leading
to a degree was offered to undergraduate students.
It embraced studies in the ancient and modern languages,
in English literature, in history, the natural sciences
and in mathematics. Graduate students might ob-
tain a degree of master for advanced study one year
after obtaining the Bachelor’s degree. The group
of courses was known as the Program of Classics, and
the degree of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts
were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of
election in courses led the University in 1886 and again
in 1898 to form other programs which embraced certain
studies not contained in the Program of Classics, but
which lead to degrees equivalent to the degree of Bach-
elor of Arts. In the matter of election of courses the
student is permitted greater freedom in the program
leading to the degree of Bachelor of Fetters than in
either of the other groups. The degrees now under
charge of the College of Arts and Fetters are the ordi-
nary degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Fetters,
Bachelor of Philosophy, Bachelor of Philosophy in
Journalism and Master of Arts.
The location of the University offers special ad-
vantages of study. It is situated on a beautiful tract
where cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the
noisy bustle of city life. This removal from the dis-
tractions of the town gives the students opportunity
to pursue their work with the quiet and concentration
needed for earnest study. Nearly all the Faculty
live on the grounds of the University, dine with the
40
bulletin of the
students, and are accessible to them at any time.
The benefits derived from this constant association
with professors can not be overestimated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and
laboratories. The main library has sixty-five thousand
bound volumes well selected and several thousand
pamphlets and manuscripts. The leading literary and
scientific reviews are kept on file. Books may be
borrowed under easy regulations. The library contains
ample reading room space and is well lighted so that
students may use it at night. It is open every day
from 8:oo A. M. to 9:00 P. M. There are also
special collections of books in the various departments
of the College, mainly works of reference. Under certain
conditions the city library of South Bend is open to
use by students of the University.
The department of experimental psychology occupies
a suite of three rooms on the ground floor of Science
Hall. The use of a dark room and a silent room may
also be had when need requires. The equipment includes
apparatus and material sufficient for repeating all
the exercises in Sanford's Manual, and most of the
exercises in Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Volume
I. The laboratory is supplied with hot and cold water,
gas and electricity. At the beginning of the course,
the aim is to give students a wide acquaintance with
such familiar apparatus as the chronoscope, kymo-
graph, plethysmograph, automatograph, primeter,
campimeter, tone variator, Galton whistle, Galton
bar, etc. For the study of special perceptions, there
is a set of stereoscopes, pseudoscopes, and accom-
panying slides. Provision is also made for the in-
vestigation of pressure, temperature, pain, taste, smell
and muscular sensation. Experiments in the field
of auditory perception are facilitated by three sets
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	41
of organ pipes, a set of Koenig’s movable tuning forks
and resonators, and various kinds of metronomes.
For the study of physiological psychology, a complete
set of models of the nervous system is at hand, to-
gether with microscopic slides of the various parts
of the brain and spinal cord. .
‘	ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Bnglish. Part' of the examination time is given
for answering questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in. the preparatory courses in English;
the remainder, for writing an essay.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Cees ar, four books of
the Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Cataline;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translations at sight of
passages from Cicero and Casar; translations of Bnglish
into Latin based on the texts of the authors.
Greek. (For students in the Department of Classics
only) Grammar, etymology and general rules of syntax;
Xenophon, Anabasis, four Books; Homer, at least three
books; prose composition based on text.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
History, as set out in the texts used in high schools
and other secondary schools. American History.
Civil Government. The Constitution of the United
States; Federal Government and State Government.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and numerical examples
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chawvenet, New-
42
BULLETIN of tub
comb, or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Physical Geography, Physiology, Botany, Zool-
ogy. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in which
at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation in this sub-
ject should include a course of lectures illustrated by
experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar
to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Eaboratory work is
required' In both chemistry and physics the laboratory
note-book must be presented.
French and German. A two years’ course of
either German or French is required for entrance on
the Program in Letters, the Program in History and
Economics, and the Program in Journalism.
Students who have had no preparatory Latin and
Greek, and are desirous of taking the Program of
Studies in the Department of Classics, and students
who have but one language and are lacking in language
credits will be able to supply this deficiency in classes
specially arranged for that purpose.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year of
the Department of:
CLASSICS
English...................4 Mathematics................2
Latin.................... 4 History.....................2
Greek.....................3 Science.....................1
LETTERS, HISTORY AND ECONOMICS, JOURNALISM
English.................. . . 4 History................2
Latin. -letters, history and economics, journalism.....2
French	.2 Science..
Elective.................o
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
43
THE DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM
Special attention is called to the fact that early
in the year 1912 Mr. Max Pam of Chicago established
a Chair of Journalism in the University and made possi-
ble a special program of studies leading to the degree
of Bachelor of Philosophy in Journalism.
In accordance with Mr. Pam’s purpose in founding
this chair, the program is designed to prepare young
men technically for Journalism and at the same time
equip them with the essentials of a liberal education.
It is hoped that graduates of this course will have
acquired such familiarity with the practical work of
newspaper making as will render their services imme-
diately valuable; at the same time they are required to
be well grounded not only in the ethics of their pro-
fession, but in general philosophy, in language study,
in the principles of economics and in world politics as
well as the particular currents in the national life of
our own country.
The entrance requirements are practically the same
as for the other departments in the College of Arts
and Letters, but the Director of Studies shall have
power to admit as a special student any young man
who is believed capable of profiting by the work of the
course.
Practical experience in newspaper work will be fur-
nished by the course itself. There are opportunities
for experience as local correspondents of the large
newspapers in Chicago, Detroit, Indianapolis, Pitts-
burgh, and other large cities. The Scholastic, a weekly
publication, founded in 1867 and issued at the Uni-
versity, affords excellent opportunity for editorial
writing and department work.
44
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	|Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE for DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Latin	5	157	I	Latin	5	157	I
Greek	4	152	I	Greek	4	152	I
English.	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
History	4	154	la	History	4	154	lb
Elocution	i	146	III	Elocution	1	146	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Latin	5	157	II	Latin	5	157	II
Greek	4	152	II	Greek	4	*52	II
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	175	I
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Elocution	1	148	VIII	Elocution	1	148	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Latin	4	157	III	Latin	4	157	III
Greek	4	152	III	Greek	4	152	III
Philosophy	4	175	II	Philosophy	4	175	II
English	3	148	III	English	3	148	III
Elocution	1	*47	VI	Elocution	1	147	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Latin	4	158	IV	Latin	4	158	IV
Greek	4	153	IV	Greek	4	153	IV
Philosophy	4	176	III	Philosophy	4	176	III
English	3	149	IV	English	3	144	IV
Elocution	1	147	VII	Elocution	3	147	VII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
45
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF LETTERS
FRESHMAN YBAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE for DESCRIPTION	
		P’gel	Course			P’ge|	Course
English	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
Latin or	5	157	I	Latin or	5	157	I
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Language*	5			Language	5		
History	4	154	la	History	4	154	lb
Elocution	i	146	III	Elocution	1	146	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	i75	I
Latin or	5	157	II	Latin or	5	157	II
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Language*	4			Language	4		
History	4	154	II	History	’4	154	II
Elocution	1	148	VIII	Elocution	1	148	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	148	III	English	3	148	III
Latin or	4	i57	III	Latin or	4	157	III
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Philosophy	4	i75	II	Philosophy	4	175	II
History	4	i54	III	History	4	154	III
Elocution	1	147	VI	Elocution	1	147	VI
SENIOR year
English	3	149	IV	English	3	149	IV
Latin or	4	i58	IV	Latin or	4	158	IV
Elective	4			Elective	4		-
Philosophy	4	176	III	Philosophy	4	176	Ill
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Elocution	1	147	VII	Elocution	1	147	VII
* French, German or Spanish.
46
bulletin of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
History	4	154	I	History	4	154	I
English	3	I48	I	English	3	I48	I
Language*	5			Language	5		
Polit. Science	4	I 8l	I	Polit. Science	4	I 8l	I
Elocution	i	I46	III	Elocution	1	I46	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
History Polit. Science	4 4	154 181	II II	History Polit. Science	4 4	154 181	II Illa
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	i75	I
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Language*	4			Language	4		
Elocution	1	148	VIII	Elocution	1	148	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	148	III	English	3	148	III
Polit. Science	4	182	IV	Polit. Science	4	182	VI
Philosophy	4	175	II	Philosophy	4	175	II
History	4	154	III	History	4	154	III
Elocution	1	147	VI	Elocution	r	147	VI
SENIOR YEAR
History	4	i55	IV	History	4	i55	IV
Political				Political	4	183	X or XI
Science	4	183	VII, VIII	Science	2	183	IX
Philosophy	4	176	III	Philosophy	4	176	III
English	3	149	IV	English .	3	149	IV
Elocution	1	147	VII	Elocution	1	147	VII
* Latin, French, German or Spanish.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	47
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN JOURNALISM
JRBSHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
J ournalism	4	156	I	Journalism	4	I56	I
English	3	I48	I	English	3	I48	I
Pol. Science	4	l8l	I	Pol. Science	4	I 8l	I
History	4	154	I	History	4	154	I
Language*	5			Language	5		
Elocution	i	I46	III	Elocution	1	I46	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
J ournalism	4	156	II	J ournalism	4	156	II
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Pol. Science	4	182	II	Pol. Science	4	182	III
Philosophy	4	175	I	Philosophy	4	175	I
History	4	154	II	Histpry	4	i54	II
Elocution	1	148	VIII	Elocution	1	148	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
J ournalism	4	157	III	J ournalism	'4	157	III
English	3	148	III	English	3	148	III
Pol. Science	4	182	IV	Pol. Science	4	182	V
Philosophy	4	175	II	Philosophy	4	175	II
History	4	154	IV	History	4	154	IV
Elocution	1	147	VI	Elocution	1	147	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Journalism	4	157	IV	Journalism	4	i57	IV
English	3	149	IV	English	3	149	IV
Law (elements)	2	109		Pol. Science	2	183	IX
Pol. Science	4	183	VII, VID	Pol. Science	4	183	XorXI
Philosophy	4	176	III ’	Philosophy	4	176	III
Elocution	1	147	VII	Elocution	1	147	VII
* Latin, French, German or Spanish.
COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
DEPARTMENT OF BIOLOGY
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMISTRY
DEPARTMENT OF PHARMACY
l._	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	49
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The College of Science was established' as a distinct
department of the University in 1865. The curriculum
of the student was largely elective for the three succeed-
ing years, but in 1867 there was formed the group of
prescribed courses now known as the Program of
General Science. Six programs are now offered to
undergraduate students. The degrees under charge of
the Faculty in this college are the ordinary degrees of
Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Biology,
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Bachelor of Science
in Pharmacy, Graduate in Pharmacy and Pharma-
ceutical Chemist. The Master’s degree and the Doctor’s
degree are conferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Biology occupies the second
floor of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture
rooms and laboratories well ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for graduate
students. The lecture rooms are furnished with charts
and models necessary in teaching the different courses.
The arrangement of windows is such that the room
can be easily darkened so that stereopticon and lantern
slides on the subjects of botany, zoology and physi-
ology may be used. The laboratories are equipped with
compound and dissecting microscopes. In each room
there is a library of works of reference pertaining to
biological subjects. The general laboratory of micros-
copy, histology and embryology is supplied with
compound microscopes and the equipments indis-
pensable in these courses. The zoological collection
fills sixteen large cases and represents typical forms
50
bulletin of th#
of all the orders and genera of vertebrate and inver-
tebrate animals.
For work in anatomy, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of
the human body, which can be taken apart for close
study. Besides there are several mounted and un-
mounted human skeletons. Students pursuing courses
in human anatomy at the University study under a
practicing surgeon and have the privilege of attend-
ing surgical clinics in St. Joseph Hospital. of South
Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough
and careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the
others is a laboratory of photo-micography which
contains a perfect photo-micographic instrument for
experimentation, photographing microscopic objects,
making lantern slides, etc. A large and fully equipped
dark room adjoins this laboratory.
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORIES
The botanical laboratory occupies the northwest
end of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly
well adapted to microscopical and histological work.
The department is supplied with the usual requisites
of a working laboratory such as compound microscopes
and accompaniments for each student, the utensils
and apparatus necessary for embedding by the paraffin,
celoiden, soap methods, and mounting of preparations
by the balsam, Venetian turpentine and glycerine
methods. There are besides, microtomes, camera
lucida, micrometers and aquaria for plant cultures so
that the typical algae and fungi may be had alive
for laboratory use in all stages of development through-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
51
out the year. Special devices for the regulating and
modifying of artificial light are at hand enabling the
student to work on dark as well as clear days. Ad-
vanced students are supplied with Abbe condenser
and oil immersion lenses. The laboratory is well stocked
with histological material, and nearly all the types
of common plant families of the phanerogamia and
cryptogamia are preserved after proper fixing. The
material for demonstration of the fresh water algae
is particularly good and abundant. The supply of
material in Venetian turpentine and glycerine is valu-
able, as it supplies permanent mounts in a few minutes’
work. There are also hundreds of specimens of rare and
common types in paraffin. A herbarium containing
over ten thousand species of flowering plants, and about
five thousand cryptogam, supplies the needs of the
classes in ’systematic botany. The collection includes
plants from all parts of the United States and Canada,—
the Pacific coast and the Southern States are especially
well represented. Besides there is a large collection of
fungi, marine algae, mosses, a large collection of several
hundred species of myxomycetes from the Bastern
and Central States, also nearly a thousand specimens of
lichens from all parts of the United States and Burope.
The latter herbarium is well stocked- with the local
flora, and special facilities are on hand for the study
of the compositae. In the museum are found specimens
of American and tropical woods and fruits. The labora-
tory for more advanced work accommodates about
twenty-five students. It is supplied with eight working
tables covered with plate glass or soapstone, and each
place is supplied with lock and key. The lecture room
in botany has a seating capacity of seventy-five. The
total seating capacity of laboratories is about sixty.
The botanical library connected with the department
52
bulletin op the
and conveniently situated in the same building contains
over 1200 volumes mostly the classics of the science,
some scarcely to be duplicated anywhere in the country.
These original editions of the great makers of botany,
some, autograph copies, range from the year 1492 to
the present time: such works as those of Linnaeus,
Tournefort, Caesalpino, Haller, Jussieu, DeCandolle,
Ray, Morison, Parkinson, Lobelius, Dodonaeus, Ruellius,
Fuchs, Tragus, Brunfels, Matthiole, Marcellus Ver-
gilius, Hermolaus Barbarus, Camerarius, Dillenius, the.
Bauhins, Gregor Mendel, Persoon, Leeuwenhoeck Mal-
pighi, Nehemiah Grew, Adanson, Ventenat, Willdenow,
and many others. Most of these are the rare first
editions.
There are also many magazines with back numbers
all relating to botany. More than 120 current maga-
zines and periodicals at present come to the files of the
department alone, all relating to botany or biology.
These conveniences for botanical research leading
to higher degrees are especially notable, and offer
to the students of the science of systematic botany
advantages rather unique.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated in
the southeastern part of the grounds and is a large
three story structure devoted entirely to chemistry.
On the third floor are a small stock room and the two
laboratories for general and industrial chemistry,
one capable of accommodating one hundred and fifty
students, the other seventy. The desks are all supplied
with gas, water, suction and the necessary reagents.
On the side tables are general stock and general ap-
paratus, and conveniently placed are small stands
for suction and blast lamps supplied with gas, air blast,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	53
acetylene. On the third floor also is the large fan
for drawing gases from the hoods, with which all the
laboratories are supplied. In the middle floor are
the main stock rooms where supplies can be obtained
by the students. Here also are the laboratories, lecture
room, drug store, library and museum of the Depart-
ment of Pharmacy. On the first floor are the labora-
tories for qualitative and quantitative analysis with
desks to accomodate sixty-five students, and fitted
with gas, suction, water and blast. Large hood accom-
modations are available - and can be utilized to ad-
vantage because of the perfect ventilation produced
by the large fans on the top floor. Two small side tables
equipped with air blasts, ordinary gas and acetylene.
To the east of these laboratories are those for physical
and electro-chemistry and special work, such - as food
analysis, iron and steel analysis, gas analysis, etc.
The equipment in these laboratories is quite complete.
Adjoining these laboratories is a small dark room for
spectroscopic and polariscopic analysis. A large lecture
room to accommodate a hundred and ten students
is in the south end of the first floor. It is provided with
apparatus for stereopticon illustrations, storage batteries,
cylinders of oxygen, carbon dioxide and a complete
set of charts illustrative of the processes employed in
modern chemical industries. Two laboratories adjoin,
one for general organic analysis, the other for special
advanced work. Two wings extend from the main
building,—one contains the vacuum and pressure
tanks, the acetylene and gasoline gas generators, the
other the balance rooms, in which are the analytical
and assay balances sensitive to the one ten-thousandth
of a gramme, and the, library of the Department. The
library contains besides the works of reference on
chemistry, the principal chemical journals on file—
54
BULLETIN OB THE
Berichte, Zentralblatt, the. Chemical Neivs, the Journal
of the American Chemical Society, the Journal of the
British Chemical Society, the Journal of Chemical
Engineering, the Journal of Chemical Industries, etc.
In the large hallway are cases containing a steadily
increasing collection of minerals, chemicals, designed
as illustrations of the substances and processes dis-
cussed in the lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are
in a wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas
and fuel furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead
ores, and also tables for blow pipe analysis. A large
collection of minerals and ores serve to illustrate the
processes.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The Department of Physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science
Hall and three laboratories in the basement. The
lecture room will accommodate seventy-five students.
Tor the work in mechanics there is the force table,
inclined planes, Geneva , cathetometer, capable of
measuring to the one twenty-five thousandth of an inch,
a large physical balance, standard kilogram, a standard
metre, a dividing engine made by the Geneva society,
an Atwood’s machine, a compound pendulum, a break
circuit recording chronograph, a powerful hydraulic
press with attachments, rotary air pumps and re-
ceivers, a large clock with electrical contact pieces,
several self-winding clocks, mercury barometers and
two aneroid barometers.
Tor the work in acoustics there are a Mercadier
radiophone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electric-
ally operated tuning forks by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig
phonautograph, an Bdison phonograph of earliest type,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
55
several sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a large
double siren, a set of very small tuning forks producing
the highest audible sounds, a set of resonators mounted
together with capsules of sensitive flames arranged
for the analysis of complex sounds, a set of Koenig’s
movable tuning forks to draw compound curves on
smoked glass, three sets of organ pipes, four sets of
fine tuning forks, a set of apparatus for manometric
observation of sound phenomena, a large tuning fork
producing the lowest audible sound, an electric metro-
nome, a set of mounted tuning forks carrying small
mirrors arranged to perform fiissajou’s experiment,
producing complex curves.
For the work in fight there are a complete set of appa-
ratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the wave
lengths of light by various interference methods, a set
of polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a polariza-
tion saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for gas
or electric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large Nicol’s
prisms mounted, a large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum, two Rowland gratings
14,000 lines to the inch, a set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland, several cameras with lenses and
attachments, a well equipped dark-room for photo-
graphic work, and a photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
thermometers, air thermometers, a steam engine indica-
tor, several calorimeters, apparatus for determining the
coefficient of linear expansion using the optical lever
method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
absolute electrometer, a Holz machine and apparatus
56
bulletin OS1 the
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,
six bridges of different types, several ammeters and
volt-meter, one 2,oooib. electro magnet, standard
resistance coils, an historical set of motors showing
evolution of the modern machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type, ten galvanometers of various
types, a complete X-ray outfit, sets of apparatus for
wireless telegraphy.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
English. Part of the examination is given for answer-
ing questions upon the text-books and readings required
in the regular preparatory courses in Bnglish; the
remainder for writing an essay.
Physical Geography. As given in Tarr’s text-book
or an equivalent treatise.
Physiology. Martin's Human Body, or an equiv-
alent treatise.
Zoology, Botany. Blementary.
Civil Government. The American Constitution;
Federal and State Governments.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History. American History.
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple original problems and .numerical examples,
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, New-
comb, or equivalent treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry. The
preparation in this subject must include a course of
lectures and recitations. A course of at least fifty
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
57
experiments in elementary chemistry actually performed
by the pupil.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book simi-
lar to Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. In both chemistry
and physics the laboratory note-book must be presented.
German. A two year course.in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English
and easy English into German, or
Trench. A two-year course in French may be pre-
sented instead of German under the same conditions.
Ability to translate readily, rather than an accurate
grammatical knowledge, is expected.
Latin. Grammar, complete; Casar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on the text of Casar.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English....................4 French, German, Latin......2
Science....................2 History....................2
(Chemistry and Physics)	Drawing..................%
Mathematics..............3	% Elective...................2
LABORATORY FEES

Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology.............$10.00
Biological Laboratory—Zoology I, II, each......... 5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany II, IV, each.......... 5.00
Chemistry I, VII, each............................ 5.00
Chemistry III, VI, VIII, IX, Xlb, XIc, XIII, each. 10.00
Chemistry II...................................... 15 • 00
Chemistry IV, V.................................. 20.00
Geology III....................................... 5-°°
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II, and IV, each........ 20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI, and VII, each...... 20.00
Physics I, III,	each. ............................ 5-°°
58
BUIX3TIN OI? THIS
PROGRAM IN GENERAL SCIENCE
The Program in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit
himself, either for further study of a technical or pro-
fessional kind, or for the activities of business life.
The natural and physical sciences constitute the primary
studies of this program. Grouped about these are
such studies in English, mathematics, and modern
languages, as experience has shown to be necessary \
for the intelligent pursuit of science and the attainment
of the object of the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior
year.
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in physics, chemistry,
biology and mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of
General Science is required to submit, before the final
examination, a written thesis upon some subject con-
nected with the elective work of the Senior year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the professor
in the course selected. The thesis shall contain no less
than five thousand words, and must be satisfactory in
matter and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the
final examination and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	59
PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them
for professional work either in the laboratory or the
class-room. Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule
of work admits in the Junior and, Senior year of some
elective study.
Every candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject
connected with Chemistry and must submit, at least
four weeks before the final examination, a written thesis
on work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must
contain at least three thousand words.
The degree of ‘Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY
The Program in Biology has been designed for students
who wish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required to prepare an
essay during the first term of the Junior year on some
subject pertaining to biology. Every candidate for a
degree must submit before the final examinations a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings.
Students not preparing themselves for the medical
profession may substitute for the advanced courses in
anatomy and physiology equivalents from either math-
ematics, physics, or English literature.
6o
BULLETIN OF THF
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are three programs in Pharinacy: one of two
years, leading to the degree, Graduate in Pharmacy
(Ph. G.); and one of three years leading to the degree,
Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.); and one of four
years leading to the degree, Bachelor of Science in
Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.).
ADMISSION
Applicants for admission to the short program must
be 18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
subjects required for the completion of the first year of
high school work. A certificate of work done equivalent
to one year of high school will be accepted instead
of an examination.
For admission to the three year program, in addition
to the age limit, the completion of two years’ preparatory
work is required. Evidence of this work may be shown
by certificate or examination.
For admission to the four year program the same
conditions apply as for entrance to the Freshman year
of any regular program in the College of Science.
METHODS
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated process.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	61
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of
preparations are required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal
Medication.
EQUIPMENT
Bach desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
. The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same ex-
perience that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full charge. He is required to
furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physi-
cians, and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute
a very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to
read them and to compound those ‘ requiring special
manipulation. The reading room is supplied with all
the leading pharmaceutical journals and books of
reference. The Pharmacognosy room contains specimens
of all the official and a great many unofficial drugs for
• study and identification.
THESIS
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a
subject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results
of this work are carefully recorded and must be type-
written and presented to the Faculty as a requirement
for graduation.
62
BUEEETIN of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR | DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P'ge	Course
Zoology	6	I 87	I	Zoology	6	187	I
Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry	4	124	III
Drawing	i	144	IX	Drawing	1	144	IX
English.	3	I48	'I	English	3	I48	I
Bacteriology ) Microscopy $	5	120 169	I I	Physiology	5	179	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Botany	5	121	I, II	Botany	5	121	I, II
Physics	5	181	II, III	Physics	5	181	• II, III
Chemistry	4	125	V	Chemistry	4	125	V
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	vii
JUNIOR YEAR
Geology	2	150	III	Geology	4	149	I
Astronomy	3	119	I	English	3	148	II
English	3	148	II	French of		185	I
French or		185	I	German	5	151	I
German	5	151	I	Elective	4		
Elective	4						
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy	4	176	AA	Philosophy	4	171	V
Electives in Science French or	8	185	II	Electives in Science French or	8	185	II
German	4	152	II	German	4	152	II
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
63
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
CHEMISTRY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry	4	124	III
Algebra	5	158	I	Anal. Geom.	5	159	II
French	5	185	I	French	5	185	I
English	3 X	I48	I	English	3	148	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Chemistry	4	125	V	Chemistry	4	125	V
Calculus	5	159	III	Calculus	4	159	IV
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Chemistry	6	125	VI	Chemistry	5	126	IX
Gas Analysis	2	126	VIII	Gas Analysis	2	126	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	7	126	IX	Chemistry	4	127	XI
Chemistry		*		Chemistry	3	128	XIII
» Elective	5			Assaying	4	167	III
Geology	2	150	III	Geology	4	149	I
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	VII
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy History of Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French	4 3 5 2 2	176 127	V ,XII	Philosophy Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French Thesis	4 5 2 2	176	V
BULLETIN-OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
•	BIOLOGY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge|	Course			P’ge	Course
Zoology	5	l87	I	Zoology	6	187	I
Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry	4	124	III
English	3	I48	I	English	3	148	I
Language*	5			. Language	5		
Drawing	2	I46	IX	Drawing	2	I46	X
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Microscopy )	5	171	I	Physiology	5	179	I
Bacteriology )		120	I	Botany	5	121	I, II
Botany	5	121	I, II	Chemistry	3	125	V
Chemistry	3	125	V	Physics	4	178	II, III
Physics	4	178	II, III	English	3	148	II
English	3	148	II				
JUNIOR YEAR
Botany	4	122	III IV	Botany	6-	122	III, IV
Geology	2	150	III	Geology	4	149	I
Philosophy	4	176	V	Philosophy	4	176	V
Chemistry	6	125	VI	History	4	156	VII
Pol. Science	4	182	VI				
SENIOR YEAR
Anatomy	2	113	I, II	Anatomy	2	113	I, II
Anatomy Physiology	4 6	113 180	III II	Anatomy Physiology	4 6	113 180	III II
Zoology	6	188	II	Zoology	6	188	II
Thesis				Thesis				
* Latin, French or German.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	65
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE I DEGREE OF
GRADUATE IN PHARMACY
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE for DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge[	Course			P’ge	Course
Pharmacy	8	172	I, II	Pharmacy	8	172	I, II
Chemistry	7	123	II	Chemistry	7	123	II
Microscopy j		169	I	Chemistry	2	124	X
Bacteriology J	5	120	I	Physiology	5	179	I
Arithmetic	3	174	IX	Physics	5	177	I
Physics	5	177	I				
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	173	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	173	IV, V, Via
Chemistry	4	124	IVb	Pharmacy	2	i74	XI
Chemistry	6	125	VI	Mat’ra Medica	3	174	VIII
Mat’ra Medica	3	174	VIII	B otany	5	121	I, II
Botany	•	5	121	I, II	Pharmacog’y	2	174	X
.DEGREE: PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
first year
Pharmacy	8	172	I, II	Pharmacy	8	172	I, II
Chemistry	6	123	II	Chemistry-	7	123	II
Microscopy »		169	I	Chemistry	2	126	X
Bacteriology )	5	120	I	Physiology	5	179	I
Arithmetic	3	174	IX	.Physics	5	177	I
Physics	5	177	I				
second year
Pharmacy
Chemistry
Chemistry
Mat’ra Medica
Botany
8	173	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	173	IV, V, Via
4	124	IVb	Pharmacy	2	174	XI
6	125	VI	Mat’ra Medica	3	174	VIII
3	174	VIII	Botany	5	121	I, II
5	121	I, II	Pharmacog’y	2	i74	X
THIRD YEAR
Pharmacy	6	173	VIb	Pharmacy	5	173	VII
Chemistry	5	126	IX	Chemistry	5	128	XIV
Geology	2	150	III	Urine Anal.	2	125	Vila
Elective	5			Toxicology	3	125	VHb
Thesis				Thesis			
3
66
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED ’ FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
PHARMACY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Tbrm	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry	4	124	III
English	3	I48	I	English	3	148	I
Botany	5	121	I, II	Botany	5	121	I, II
Language*	5			Language	5		
Microscopy j	c	169	I	Physiology	5	179	I
Bacteriology 1	5	120	I				
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Pharmacy	8	172	I, II	Pharmacy	8	172	I, II
Chemistry	3	123	V	Chemistry	3	125	V
Physics	4	177	II, III	Physics	4	177	II, III
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	VII
JUNIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8	173	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	173	IV, V, Via
Chemistry	6	125	VI	Chemistry	2	126	IXc
Pharmacy	1	174	I	Geology	4	149	I
Zoology	5	187	I	Zoology	5	187	I
SENIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	6	173	VIb	Pharmacy	5	173	VII
Pharmacog’y	3	174	X.	Urine Anal.	2	125	Vila
Geology	2	150	Ill	Toxicology	3	125	VII b
Mat’ra Medica	3	174	VIII	Mat’-ra Medica	3	174	VIII
Philosophy Thesis	4	176	V	Philosophy Thesis	4	176	V
* Latin, French, or German.
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
68
BUI^m'IN or TH#
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the
engineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up, and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the five departments of
engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that
are applied in engineering work. Mathematics is fore-
most among these requirements. The natural sciences
receive their share of attention, and due importance
is given to language in arranging the programs of
studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to
correspond as closely as possible to the real work of
the engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are
acquired by applying the results of mathematical
calculations to particular practical cases in laboratory
work.
Five regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, one to the degree of
Electrical Engineer, one to the degree of Engineer of
Mines, and one to the degree of Chemical Engineer.
Special Short Courses^ in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accommodate those who wish
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME	69
*
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest
possible time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department will be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works
"in the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufactur-
ing plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one
to two hours’ preparation. Two hours’ actual time in
laboratory work, shopwork or drawing is required
for each hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 35, the regular
students in the five Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appara-
tus used.
LABORATORY FEES
Assaying II.........................................$15-°°
Chemistry 1.......................................... 5.00
Chemistry II........................................ 15.00
Chemistry III, VI, VIII, Xlb, XIc, XIII, XIV, XV, each 10.00
Chemistry V......................................... 20.00
Chrystallography IV.................................. 2.00
Electrical Laboratory I, II and IV, each............ i5-o°
Gas Engine Laboratory............................... 10.00
’ Mechanical Laboratory............................... 5-°°
Metallurgy 1......................................... 5-°°
70
BULLETIN OR THE
Mineralogy II...................................... i5-oo
Mineralogy III....................................   5-°°
Petrography V....................................... 5-°o
Physical Laboratory I and III, each.......-......... 5-o°
Physical Laboratory IV............................. i5-oo
Shop work, all four-year programs, per term........ 15.00
Surveying III, V, VIII, each........................ 5.00
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
of simple problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of W entworth, Chawvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States;
Federal Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History. American History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr's text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments and recitations from a text-book like
Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry. Laboratory
work required.
Botany, Physiology, and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must
present a two years’ course in German, French or
Spanish.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon text-books and readings
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
required in the preparatory courses in English; the re-
mainder for writing an essay. .
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English..............4
Mathematics.............3 X
Science..................2
History.................2
French or German.........2
(Chemistry and Physics)
Drawing..................X
Elective................2
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession,
either in the office or in some of the responsible positions
superintending the construction and operation of public
works. To secure these results the student is given,
not only a sound theoretical training in the courses of
study, but he is also required to study the practical
applications of the principles upon which the theory
is based. The first two years are devoted to the study
of mathematics and the theoretical branches. The last
two years are given to the study of applied courses—■
practical work in the laboratory and field, as much as
possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects.
Instruction based upon standard text-books on engineer-
ing is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
0
bulletin ot ths
directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class-
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening
his interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists of
surveyor’s transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with all
the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, leveling
rods, etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine.
After the student is taught the use and adjustment of
the instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are
commenced and continued progressively until the more
difficult principles and methods are understood. In a
similar manner is instruction given in the courses of
sanitary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of
materials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the
student with practical engineering subjects, and the
most improved method of execution and designing. A
large drafting room offers facilities for the proper
study of all the courses in mechanical drawing and
design. The room is splendidly lighted from above, well
ventilated and contains the latest form of drawing
tables. There are suitable arrangements for blue-
printing, both by natural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with' a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West.
Some of the largest plants in the world are situated here.
One of the greatest water power developments in the
United States is located a few miles from the University.
Special advantages are thus afforded to students for the
inspection of the most modem engineering works now
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
73
completed or in process of construction. The City
Engineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of
the Department connected with the course of study, is
required of,each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original research.
THE DEPARTMENT OF' MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The Program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and
for the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only those
capable of adapting themselves to these requirements
should take it up. The program of the department is
modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials
used in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the
science of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces
the motions of connected parts, without reference to the
cause of .such motions, to the work done or energy
transmitted. This is succeeded by machine design, which
is a direct development of kinematics, and the course
continues throughout the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shop work are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the wood-
shop, "in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and
«
74
bulletin the
pattern-making are taught. When the students have
become sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up
the work of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine
shop. A systematic course of training is provided, which
advances the student by easy steps until he has mastered
all the details of the work.
The latter part of the Senior year is largely , taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of the program
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show •
considerable originality.
Bvery possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge .and ability in the
particular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas
engine design and operation. A systematic curriculum
of study will be outlined in each individual case leading
to a complete and proficient knowledge of the work
undertaken.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort
is made by the authorities to make the work as com-
prehensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop is
supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped with
the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for
turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner, an
edge moulder and shaper, a universal trimmer, circular
saw with dado and drilling attachments and band saw,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
75
the whole forming an adequate equipment for a thor-
ough mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running the entire length of the building. The
latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five-inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed, having a
capacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter.
Two drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine
and a Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the
outfit, thus making the machine shop a model of its
kind. There have been completed lately in the machine
shop seven new screw cutting lathes of fourteen-inch
swing, a high speed bench hand lathe, one twenty-
eight inch Sibley and Ware drill press, one horizontal
8x12 slide valve steam engine and a wood milling
machine. The equipment is added to regularly, and
recently a Seneca Balls lathe of fourteen inch swing
and eight foot bed, a Crown high speed lathe, a Toledo
punch press and a complete new set of chucks, drills,
taps, mandrels and lathe dogs have been installed to
meet the additional requirements of the courses. It
is the policy of this department to refrain as much as
possible from exercise work, and each student is usually
taking part in the construction of some new machine
or engaged on general repair work for the University,
a plan which is regarded superior to a fixed routine of
exercises.	,
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding* and tool-making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
76
BUUM3TIN OU THU
sand, setting up and drawing simple and. complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by. the shops,
the engineering students have access to the steam and
power plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the
best contemporary practice. The main steam plant
contains two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers,
aggregating 1200 horse power. In connection with the
boilers is installed the necessary testing apparatus as
follows: a Worthington hot water meter for measur-
ing the amount of feed water, a feed water thermometer
for getting temperature of same, a high range ther-
mometer for temperature of generated steam, a throttling
calorimeter for ascertaining the quality of steam and
an automatic recording pressure gauge giving a con-
tinuous record of the boiler pressure. Provision is made
for finding the temperature and pressure of the flue
gases by means of a pyrometer and draught gauge and
for obtaining samples of flue gas for analysis with
Fisher’s analysis apparatus. These, with a Carpenter
coal calorimeter for determining the heating value of
fuel, comprise a full and complete equipment for giving
the student an intimate knowledge of the practical part
of boiler management and testing. A Webster feed
water and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two
large Worthington fire pumps 16 x 9 x 12 with a capacity
of 1500 gallons per minute, with numerous separators,
steam traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete
the apparatus in the main steamplant. A McBwen
high speed automatic engine, an Armington and Sims
engine of smaller type and several low speed horizontal
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
77
engines with polar and roller planimeters, indicators,
reducing wheels, slide rules and other necessary instru-
ments, are used in studying the operation of the steam
engine, distribution and economy of steam, regulation,
valve setting and heat wastes.
There have been recently donated to the mechanical
laboratory about four hundred brass and iron fittings
used in steam and gas engineering, including feed water
injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups, safety valves,
relief valves, different varieties of globe valves, gate
valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bushings and
reducers. Many of these have been sectioned to show
the dimensions, and facilitate a study of the internal
structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four-cycle engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse power two-cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse power horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with circulating pump and cooling
tower, one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil,
one Apple ignition dynamo with storage battery, two
Hendricks automatic igniters together with carburetors,
spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary
equipment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston
carburetor and muffler, a National storage battery,
Pittsfield induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard,
magnetos with brass armored spark coils, one four
engine cylinder distributor and a number of improved
standard and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated by alcohol has been placed in the machine
78
BULLETIN OB THB
shop, and the work of designing and building the
engine will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering
topics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete
line of trade catalogues.
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, in theory, design, construction and
operation.
• The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a
general descriptive study of the different types of
engines with discussions on the general management,
operations, care and special uses to which this type
of motor may be applied. During the second year the
general theory of the gas engine is studied and the
design of an engine for specific purposes is undertaken
by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermody-
namic efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. To
these are added studies in various kinds of ignition,
operation of vaporizers and carburetors and practical
management of internal combustion engines. A con-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	79
siderable part of the work will consist of the complete
adjustment and successful operation on the test-block,
under varying loads of the engine built by the student.
Experiments in flame, electric and hot tube ignition,
operation of vaporizers and carburetors, construction
of spark coils and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room
by the complete building and testing of a gas engine
of a design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each
student is required to prepare the patterns and core
boxes, machine the castings and forgings, assemble the
complete engine and submit a comprehensive report of
a test on the machine constructed. If the report proves
satisfactory a certificate of proficiency is given to the
student and the gas engine becomes his own property.
Tor admission to this program the student should
have completed courses XlVa and XlVb in shopwork
and must certify by examination or certificate evidence
of a knowledge of algebra as far as logarithms, plane
geometry, and his further ability to pursue the studies
of the first year. In case a student has not had this
preparatory work, he may, with special effort complete it
in addition to the regular work of the course. Candidates
shall also write a short essay, which must be satisfactory
in spelling, sentence and paragraph construction. '
THE DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING .
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and. practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
in the program of Electrical Engineering is intended
8o
BULLETIN of TH#
to give a general education as well as a special training
in the technical branches involved in the various prac-
tical applications of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class-room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquires skill in han-
dling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records
of the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
centre in the growth of which electricity is taking a
very prominent part. Blectric power generated by
steam is now being distributed and utilized in several
large plants, some using the three phase alternating
system, while others are using the direct current.
Several of the largest water power developments in
the Middle West are situated within a few miles of the
University. From this system we receive three phase
alternating currents which furnish light for our buildings
and grounds, and power for driving motors in our
shops and printing office, etc., all of which are operated
by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power within
a short distance. Our students visit these plants accom-
panied by an instructor who points out the applications
of the text-book theory in the design of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working
conditions.	s
Mach candidate for graduation must present at the
end of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying
the results of an extended original research on an
©
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
8i
engineering subject, chosen at the beginning of the
year, with the approval of the head of the department.
The descriptive part must be typewritten, and bound
in book form together with the drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows: An A. C. induction motor arranged to
operate on single phase circuits with a condenser com-
pensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K. W. com-
posite wound Wood alternator of the latest type with
exiccater and a full set of switchboard instruments,
several transformers of different capactiy, a high tension
transformer for testing insulation,- an Bdison bipolar
10 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-Houston arc
light machine with regulator and fifteen lamps, a Wood
arc machine, capacity 25 lights, an Edison bipolar,
3 K. W. 125 V. dynamo with special winding, a Van
Depoele compound wound dynamo, a special A. C.
5 H. P. dynamo or rotary converter, a series wound
dynamo with wrought iron field, number of small
motors, a 10 H. P. induction motor, three phase, 220
volts. 60 cycles, a motor generator set consisting of
an adjustable speed 8 PI. P., D. C. motor, direct con-
nected to a special multiphase, revolving field A. C.
dynamo.
A three K. W. three phase rotary converter, an eight
K. W. rotary converter, a set of inclined coil alternating
current portable instruments, voltmeter, ammeter and
wattmeter, telegraph relays, sounders, switchboard, etc.,
telephone apparatus including subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops, jacks, switches, fighting
arresters, etc., automatic telephone switchboard con-
taining first and second selector and connector switches,
82	BULLETIN OB THE
interrupter heat coils, etc., and three subscribers sets—
with this apparatus all the operations involved in the
operation of a 10,000 system may be performed, a
complete central energy switchboard, several lines and
subscribers sets and a selective signaling four party
line outfit, a collection of historical sets including
Reis’ transmitter and receiver, a standard portable
bridge, a common portable bridge, a testing battery,
a power or foot lathe with wood turning tools, drills
and hand tools for metals, a set of tools for metal work-
ing, a calibrating lamp rack, a D’Arsonval and common
galvanometers, Ballistic galvanometer, standard con-
denser, etc., for capacity work, resistance boxes,
standard meghoms, etc., high resistance Thompson
galvanometer, standard cells, voltmeter arranged for
the comparison of incandescent lamps, a plug switch-
board controlling all circuits, a plating dynamo and a
buffer for cleaning and polishing work to be plated,
solution tank, etc.,-—in all, a complete outfit for elec-
trotype work, a hot wire ammeter, twelve ammeters
and voltmeters mostly of the Weston type for direct
current measurements, a Kohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery resistance, etc., a lot of arc lamps series
and constant potential, open and enclosed arcs. Watt-
meters of various types, a collection of motor starting
rheostats, several sets of parts of incandescent lamps
showing the various stages in their manufacture, a
large collection of porcelain insulators used in electrical
work including a lot of insulators for high tension
transmission lines, a lot of armature core disks, trans-
former- core stampings, dynamo frames, formed coils,
brush holders, pole pieces, samples of insulation, com-
mutator segments, etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading manufacturers of electrical
machinery, a case of marked samples of wire insulators,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
83
lamps and other construction materials, a library of
practical books of reference and files of leading period-
icals and trade publications, a Cooper Hewitt mercury
vapor lamp, a high frequency Telsa coil and condenser,
a working model of the induction motor, an armature
winding model mounted to rotate in bipolar and multi-
polar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with universal
switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An absolute
electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for illus-
trating static phenomena, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 tb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of
the modern machine from the early form of the recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types, a
complete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy. For further apparatus consult pages 53,
54 and 55 of this catalogue.
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shop work,
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages 52, 73 and 76.
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short program, which
may be completed in two years. The studies are arranged
to give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental
theories of electricity and magnetism, as well as a
certain amount of skill in handling electrical machinery
and appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and
elementary physics are included, for they are necessary
84
BUIyLHTlN OF THF
in order to carry on successfully the practical work
of designing, manufacturing and testing or operating '
electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work is
given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and in
the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power
are learned by testing, repairing and making additions
to the University plant, and by visiting the numerous
electric establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by
an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as fat as logarithms
and plane geometry. They shall also write a short
essay which must be satisfactory in spelling, punctua-
tion, sentence and paragraph construction.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, shall be as given on page
69.
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
The wonderful growth and expansion of the mining
industry, not only in this country but in Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America, has created a constant demand
for trained men who have a thoroughly practical as
well as theoretical knowledge of mining operations.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
85
The aim of this department is to give the student
sufficient training in the various technical branches of
mining to enable him to project and successfully carry
through a mining enterprise.
The course of studies leading to the degree of Mining
Engineer includes the essential subjects of Mechanical
Engineering, particularly those which have special
prominence in mining work; for the economical oper-
ation of any mine depends to a great extent upon the
judicious selection and proper operation of the machinery
in the power plant, mill and smelter. Likewise the
subjects of Civil Engineering with but few excep-
tions, are embraced in the mining course, for the reason
that many of the problems of Civil Engineering must
be solved in the laying out and directing of mining
work. Plans and surveys of the surface improvements
and underground workings of a mine are made by the
Mining Engineer.
In addition to these subjects the course includes the
following special branches: Crystallography, Mineral-
ogy, Petrography, Physical and Chemical Geology,
Economic Mining Geology, Metallurgy, Ore Dressing,
Assaying and a thorough study of Inorganic Chemistry
in its application to mining and metallurgy.
Throughout the course the object is not only to
present clearly the theory underlying each subject,
but to fix it in the mind of the student by practical
work in the laboratory, shop, drafting room and in
trips to the mining districts where the student becomes
familiar with the practical application of the principles
laid down in the text-book and lectures.
The subject of the thesis required in this course
must be along the line of mining and consists of original
research work in one of its special branches, to be
approved by the head of the department.
86	OS' THB
THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING
Chemical manufacture has developed so rapidly and
grown so exacting that there has arisen a demand for
men who not only can create and improve chemical
processes strictly so-called, but who can deal with the
problems of construction and maintenance as far as
they are related to the chemical industries. This often
demands a broad knowledge of the effect of chemical
forces on materials of construction such as the ordinary
engineer does not usually possess and which can come
only from a detailed study of chemical laws and chemi-
cal action applied not only to laboratory methods but
also to technical processes. To prepare young men
for such work the course in Chemical Engineering
has been designed. The student taking up this course
is given a thorough training in chemical principles
similar to that outlined in the Course in Chemistry
except that the laboratory period is somewhat shortened.
To this training is added a certain amount of the theory
and laboratory practice in Mechanical Engineering
sufficient for the needs of chemical industries, together
with a consideration of electrical currents as used in
chemical manufacture.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
87
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE- OF
CIVIL ENGINEER
JRBSHMAN YBAR
	SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
			P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
	Algebra	5	158	I	Anal. Geom.	5	159	II
	English	3	I48	I	English	3	I48	I
	French	5	185	I	French	5	185	I
	Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry	4	124	III
-	Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing Surveying	3 2	140 130	II II, III
sophomore; year
Calculus	5	159	III	Calculus	4	*59	IV, V
Des. Geometry	3	129	I	Des. Geometry	3	129	I
Surveying i			IV, V	■ R. R. Survey’g	5	131	VII. VIII
Geodesy	J	5	13°	VI	Physics	5	178	II,III
Physics	5	178	II, III	Drawing	1	141	V
Drawing	1	141	V				
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	132	VIII	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	132	VIII
Geology		150	III	Materials	3	132	X
Stere otomy	2	141	VI	Geology	4	149	I
Astronomy	2	119	I	Drawing	2	141	VII
Philosophy	4	176	V	Philosophy	4-	176	V
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	VII
• SENIOR year
Engineering	5	134	XII	Engineering	5	134	XII
Hy dromechan.	3	136	XVI	Hydromechan.	3	136	XVI
Bridges, Roofs	5	135	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	135	XV
Sanitary Eng.	2	134	XIII	Sanitary Eng. Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	2 2	134 133	XIII XI
88
BULLETIN of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
freshman year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge|	Course
Algebra	5	158	I	Anal. Geom.	5	159	II
French.	5	185	I	French	5	185	I
.Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry .	4	124	III
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shop work	3	165	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	159	III	Calculus	4	159	IV
Drawing	2	142	VIII	Drawing	2	142	VIII
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Shopwork	3	166	XIVc	Shopwork	3	166	XlVd
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	VII
JUNIOR YEAR
An. Mechanics	5	132	VIII	1 Hydromechan.	2	136	XVI
Kinematics	3	162	V	Meeh’s of Mat.	3	132	X
Physics:	.			IV	Mach’ nD esign	2	163	VI
Flee. Measure’!	1	178	IVa	Valve Gears	1	163	VIb
Calorimetry	1	178	IVb	Flee. Dab.	2	144	VI
Shopwork	3	163	XlVe	Shopwork	3	166	XlVf
Philosophy	4	176	V	Philosophy	4	176	V
English	3	148	I	Fnglish	3	148	I
SENIOR YEAR
Materials of Engineering	J 161	83	II	Steam Power Plants	4	161	III
Thermodynam.	161	82	I	Steam Boilers	3	162	IV
Steam Power				Thermodynam	4	161	I
Plants	161	83	III	Surveying	2	130	II, III
Meehan’1 Lab.	16.4	86	VIII	Thesis			
Shopwork	166	88	XlVf				
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
first YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Geometry	5		E	Trigonometry	5		F
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
Shopwork	3	166	XIVc	Shopwork	3	l66	XlVd
Chemistry	5	123	I	Chemistry	5	123	I
Physics	5	177	I	Physics	5	177	I
Gas Engines	5	164		Vapor Engines	5	I64	X.
second year
Gas Engine Design	15	165	XI	Gas Engine Design	10	165	XI
Gas Power Plants	3	163	VII	Gas Engine Laboratory	3	165	XIII
Gas Engine Construction	3	165	XII	Gas Engine Construction	3	165	XII
				Engines and B oilers	3	164	IX
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
first year
SUBJECTS: Eirst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Geometry Drawing Shopwork Physics Applied Electricity	5 3 3 5 5	140 l65 177 143	D I XlVa I I	Geometry Drawing Shopwork Physics Applied Electricity	5 3 3 5 5	140 165 177 143	D II XlVb I I
SECOND YEAR
Trigonometry Designing	5 3	144	F V	Engines and Boilers	3	164	IX
Shopwork	3	166	XIVc	Designing	3	144	V
Dynamo				Shopwork	3	166	XlVd
Machinery	5	i44	III	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	144	III
Electricity	5	M3	II	Applied			
				Electricity	5	143	II
90
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
Algebra	5	158	I	Anal. .Geom.	5	1.59	II
French.	5	185	I	French	5	185	I
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	I AO	II
Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry	4	124	III
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	3	165	XlVb
English	3	148	I	English	3	148	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5 '	159	III	Calculus	5	159	IV, V
Des. Geometry	2	140	III	Des. Geometry	2	140	III
Physics	5	178	XIVc	Physics	5	178	II, III
Shopwork	3	166	XlVa	Shopwork	3	166	XlVd
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	VII
JUNIOR YEAR
Dynamo Mach.	5	144	VI	Dynamo Mach	4	144	VI
Anal. Meeh.	5	132	VIII	Elec. Lab.	2	144	VI
Kinematics	3	162	V	Hydromechan. Meeh’s of Mat.	2	136	VIII
Physics:					3	132	VIII
Elec. Measure’!	1	178	IVa	Mach’n Design	2	163	VI
Calorimetry	1	178	IVb	Shop work	3	166	XlVf
Shopwork	3	166	XlVe	Philosophy	4	176	V
Philosophy	4	176	V				
SENIOR YEAR
Dynamo Mach.	4	144	III	Dynamo Mach	4	144	III
Thermodynam.	4	161	I	Electrical Lab.	4	144	IV
Electrical Lab.	4	144	IV	Designing	2	i44	. V
Designing Power	j	3	144	V	Thermodynam Illuminating	4	161	I
Transmission > Electric Ry. J Thesis	1	145	VIII IX	Engineering Thesis	1	146	XII
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’Re	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	158	I	Anal. Geom.	5	159	II
Chemistry	4	124	III	Chemistry	4	124	III
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	3	165	XlVb
English	3	I48	I	English	3	148	I
Mining Eng.	3	l68	I -	Mining Eng..	3	l68	I
				Surveying	2	130	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	'59	III	Calculus	4	159	IV
Surveying )			IV, V	R.R. Survey’g	5	131	VII, VIII
Geodesy	i	4	130		Physics	5		II, III
Physics	5		II, III	Chemistry	3	125	V
Chemistry	3	125	V	Drawing	1	141	V
Drawing	1	141	V	History	4	156	VII
Pol. Science	4	182	VI				
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh.	5	132	IX	Meeh, of Mats.	3	132	X
Mineralogy	3	150	. II	Hy dromechan.	2	136	XVI
Drawing	2	142	VIII	Mineralogy	3	150	II
Mineralogy	2	150	III	Drawing	2	142	VIII
Cry stall’ phy	5	150	IV	Geology	4	149	I
Philosophy	4	176	V	Chemistry	4	128	XV
				Mine Survey’g	2	168	II
				Philosophy	4	176	V
SENIOR YEAR
Ore Dressing	3	167	IV	Assaying	5	167	II
Metallurgy	3	166	I	Economic			
Phys.&Chem. Geol.	3	151	VI	Mining Geol.	2	151	VII
Petrography	2	150	V	Graph. Static.	5	135	XV
Gas Engines	5	164	X	Petrography	2	150	V
Mat. of Engin’g	2	161	II	Eng. & Boilers	3	164	IX
Shopwork	3	166	XlVe	Thesis	•		
SUMMER WORK. .	_
(To be done during the summer preceding the Senior Year.) .
This course consists of actual Mining Engineering practice in the mines
of the Lake Superior district, under the direction of the head of the department.
Each student is required to make a complete, accurate underground survey
with a mining transit, connecting the mine traverse with one on surface, through
vertical and inclined shafts. A study of the different methods of mining in
several mines are made with special attention given to Geology in its relation
to economic mining; ore dressing mills and metallurgical plants are carefully
inspected to familiarize the student with the best concentrating and smelting
methods. Sixty hours a week for four weeks.
92
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DECREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge(	Course			P’ge|	Course
Algebra	5	158	I	Anal. Geom.	5	159	II
Chemistry	4	I24	in	Chemistry	4	1 24	III
Drawing	3	140	1	Drawing ,	3	140	II
French	5	185	1	French	5	185	I
English	3	148	1	English	3	148	I
Shopwork	3	165	XlVa	Shopwork	3	165	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	159	III	Calculus	4	159	IV
Physics	5	178	II, III	Physics	5	178	II, III
Drawing	2	140	III	Drawing	2	140	III
Chemistry	4	125	V	Chemistry	4	125	V
Shopwork	3	166	XIVc	Shopwork	3	166	XlVd
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	VII
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	125	- VI	Chemistry	5	128	XV
Anal. Meeh.	5	132	VIII	Elec. Lab.	2	144	VI
Kinematics	3	162	V	Meeh, of Mats.	3	132	X
Drawing	2	142	VIII	Hydromechan.	2	136	XVI
Philosophy	4	176	V	Chemistry	2	126	VIII
Physics				Steam Boilers	3	162	IV
Elec. Measure’t		178	IVa	Philosophy	4	176	V
Calorimetry		178	IVb	Drawing	2	142	VIII
SENIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	126	IX	Chemistry	5	126	IX
Chemistry	3	128	XIII	Chemistry	4	127	XI
Chemistry	3	128	XIV	Chemistry	3	128	XIV
Thermodynam.	4	161	I	Thermodynam	4	161	I
Mech’l. Lab.	2	164	VIII	Thesis			
.	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	93
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large a scale that
a deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Mast er-Artist is the heaven-gifted man who,
having conceived his projects in ultimate beauty of
form, color, texture, and ornament, can build them
structurally and economically perfect. It is seldom that •
any mind combines all of these attributes. It is more
seldom that to-day’s practice requires them in any one
man. To-day, one man “ designs”; another “frames.”
It is the recognition of these two almost independent
phases of architecture that has caused the University
of Notre Dame to detach the Program in Architecture
from the College of Engineering and to create the new
College of Architecture.
The Faculty of the College now offers three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements; The pro-
gram in design requires four years for completion and
is offered to students wishing to specialize in design—
the degree is Bachelor of Science in Architecture; the
program in construction is the same length and is
offered to men wishing to specialize in construction—
the degree is Bachelor of Science in Architectural
Engineering. Graduate years are offered in both pro-
grams, and upon completion, Master’s degrees are
conferred. A Short Program covering two years is
offered to students finding it impossible or inexpedient
to devote to school work the time required for com-
pleting the programs leading to degrees. Upon com-
pletion of the Short Program a Certificate of Proficiency
is given.
94	BUIX3TIN OB THE |
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the drafting-room continuously for four or five hours.
In the Senior Year and in the Short Program the class-
room requirements are less and the time to be spent
in the drafting-room correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
preparatory to the programs either in the Preparatory _
School of the University or in an accredited school;
or, entrance may be by examination at the University
on the first two days of the Fall Term.
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the
routine of the courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in
Architecture, or in Architectural Engineering from
Notre Dame or another School of Architecture of
equal standing. The University will confer the Master’s
degree on her own graduate students not in residence
at the end of one year if that time is spent in an atelier
of the first order or in travel abroad following an
approved program of study and investigation; or at
the end of not less than two years if that time is spent
in practice and the University’s requirements are com-
plied with.
EQUIPMENT
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from
a small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of signed drawings—
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from arch-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME ’	95
itects of national reputation; a large elaborate model
complete in all its details of the New Cook County
Court House in Chicago; photographs, engravings
plaster models, reference books and manufacturers’
catalogues and samples. The collection, however,
needs to be increased faster than the resources of the
University will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre
Dame can not give money, or its equivalent, for a
better purpose. The. endowment of a Travelling fellow-
ship, preferably for the study of European Ecclesias-
tical Architecture, will be a benefaction of the utmost
value. One thousand dollars will provide for one man
for one year.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Engeish. Part of the examination time is given
for answering questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in the preparatory courses in English;
the remainder for writing an essay.
AegEbra. fundamental operations, simple equa-
tions, involution and evolution, radicals, radical equa-
tions and quadratic equations, including everything
up to logarithms, as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra,
or of an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
History. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Ancient, Medieval and Modern History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
the ordinary text-books.
Physioeogy. Martin’s Human Body, or an equivalent.
Botany, Zooeogy. Elementary.
Chemistry. Elements of inorganic chemistry, as
96
BULLETIN OF THE
given in high schools of good standing. Laboratory
work is required.
Physics. Blementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text book
similar to Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory
work is required.
Civics. Elementary.
French. A two years’ course in French is re-
quired. Ability to translate French into English, and
easy English sentences into French. Or,
German. A two years’ course in German is re-
quired. Ability to translate German into English, and
easy English sentences into German.
Drawing. A knowledge of the use of drawing
instruments, of projection drawing and elementary
freehand.
Subjects required for Freshman standing:
English.....................4	History...................2
Mathematics.............  .3X	French or German..........2
Science.....................2	Drawing...................%
(Chemistry and Physics) Elective......................2
THE PROGRAM IN DESIGN
Degrees: Bachelor of Science in Architecture.
Master of Science in Architecture.
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to arrange it that the student pursuing
it will have upon completion a liberal education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural
Design and Composition. It may be undertaken
by students whose artistic intuition and temperament
fit them especially fox the aesthetic side of a noble
profession.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	97
The course is built up around the work in the
drafting-room where half of the student’s time is
spent. The work in Design, beginning in the Fresh-
man year with the intelligent study of the orders and
simple problems involving their combination and
use, and continued in the three following years by
means of minor and major problems involving the
planning of all classes of building from the simplest
to the most monumental, is supplemented and rounded
out by exercises in the various methods and media
of rendering and by a thorough course in freehand
and modeling.
The materials and methods of all trades and pro-
fessions engaged in building operations are syste-
matically studied in the Construction classes through-
out the four years of the program. The writing of
specifications for each branch in labor is studied syn-
chronously. Practical work in the. various trades
is given so that the student may know good work
and thus be able to superintend construction intel-
ligently. The practical lessons are supplemented, by
trips to the important building operations and in-
dustries in the neighborhood of the University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and numer-
ous practical problems solved.
Working drawings and detail of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College
in outlining the construction courses to equip the
student to solve by office 'methods any problem he
may meet in ordinary practice, it being taken for granted
that graver problems requiring a deep knowledge of
98
BULLETIN OF THE
the higher mathematics' may well be left to the archi-
tectural engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of
high professional standing will give a number of
lectures in this course.
A history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering four years. The method
is a combination of lectures, recitations and research.
Courses either in mathematics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years com-
plete the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism
and research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
Degrees: Bachelor of Science in Architectural Engineering.
Master of Science in Architectural Engineering
The science tof engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be thor-
ough, the engineer must specialize. One of his special-
izations is in Architecture. His services are needed
to frame important buildings, to design their founda-
tions and to protect adjoining property while they
are in erection. The modern idea of education is to
progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs.
The College offers the Program in Architectural Engineer-
ing because there is need of the service of the men
who can complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engi-
neers should have a bent for mathematics and for
painstaking, exact drafting.*
The program of studies differs from that of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
99
Program in Design chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied mathematics are sub-
stituted for the courses in English, economics and
philosophy; the more important construction courses
go deeper into theory; freehand work ends with the
first year; the study of Historic Ornament and the
Histories of the “Allied Arts” is omitted; and a rel-
atively greater amount of time, increasing each year,
is spent in structural design.
t The Graduate year is largely spent in the solving
of problems of the first order in architectural engi-
neering.	'
. THE SHORT PROGRAM
Certificate of Proficiency
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class-room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year than
in either of the complete programs.
Ordinarily the same entrance subjects are demanded
for the Short Program as for the Programs in Design
and Engineering. A student may be allowed to take
up work in the Short Program who is sufficiently mature
in years and has had enough practical experience to
warrant his following the work with profit.
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means two actual hours in the drafting-
room.	.	.
It is the intention to have the students work steadily
for four hours in the drafting-room.
I
IOO
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM IN DESIGN
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge|	Course			P’ge|	Course
English	3	I48	I	English	3	I48	I
El. of Arch.	5	117	I	El. of Arch.	5	117	I
Construction	4	114	I	Construction	4	114	I
Language*	5			Language	5		
Drawing	2	138	Ic Drawing		2	I38	Id
Arch. Drawing	2	I4O	IV	Arch. Drawing	2	140	IV
SECOND YEAR
English	3	148	II	English	3	148	II
Design	8	118	II	Design	8	118	II
Construction	3	115	II ■	Construction	3<	ii5	II
Hist, of Arch.	• 2	113	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I
Drawing	2	138	Ila	Drawing	2	138	Ha
Graphics	2	i35	XV	Graphics	2	135	XV
Theory of Des.	1	119	VII	Church Des.	1	119	VIII
THIRD YEAR
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4 ।	J 156	VII
Design	8	118	III	Design	8	118	III
Construction	1	116	III	Construction	1	116	III
Hist, of Arch.	1	113	II	Hist, of Arch.	1	113	II
History of				History of			
Ornament	2	114	III	Sculpture	2	114	IV
Drawing	2	138	lib	Drawing	2	138	lib
Heat, and Vent.	1	116	V	Sanitation	1	117	VI
Electricity	1	145	VII				
FOURTH YEAR
Philosophy	4	176	V	Philosophy	4	176	V
History of Painting	2	114	V	Bus. Ethics History	1	119	I
Pen and Ink	1	142	VIII	Painting	2	114	V
Water Color	1	142	XI	Modeling	2	139	V
Design	IO	118	IV	Design Thesis	IO	118	IV
* French, Batin or Spanish.
Mathematics may be substituted for the Language of the
Freshman year provided the student has had at least two
years of Language.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
IOI
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	158	I	Anal. Geom.	5	159	II
English	3	148	I	English	3	I48	I
Construction	4	114	I	Construction	4	I 14	I
Drawing	3	140	I	Drawing	3	140	II
Drawing	2	I38	Ic	Drawing	2	I38	Id
El. of Arch.	5	117	I	El- of Arch.	5	117	I
SECOND YEAR
Calculus	5	i59	III	Calculus	4	159	IV
Physics	5	177	II, III	Physics	5	177	II, III
Des. Geom.	2	140	III	Des. Geom.	2	140	in
Construction	4	115	II, III	Construction	4	115	11, in
Design	5	118	II	Design	5	118	11
Drawing	2	138	Ila	Drawing	2	138	Ila
Pol. Science	4	182	VI	History	4	156	VII
THIRD YEAR
Anal. Meehan.	5	132	VIII |	Anal. Meehan.	2	132	VIII
Sanitary Eng.	2	134	XIII	Mechanics of			
Electricity	1	145	VII	Materials	3	132	X
Heating and				Sanitary Eng.	2	134	XIII
Ventilating	1	LI 6	V	Surveying	2	130	II, III
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I
Struct. Design	8	119	V	Strudt. Design	‘ 8	119	V
Philosophy	4	176	V	Philosophy	4	176	V
FOURTH YEAR
Arch. Eng.	2	116	IV	Arch. Eng.	3	116	IV
Bridges and Roofs	5	135	XIV	Grap. Stat. History of	5	i35	XV
Stereo tomy	3	141	VI	Architect..	2	113	II
Hist, of Arch.	1	113	II	Bus. Ethics	1	119	I
Struc. Design	8	119	VI	Struc. Design Thesis	8	119	VI
102
BUBBBTIN OB THB
SHORT PROGRAM
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	113	I
Construction	4	114	I	Construction	4	114	I
Arch. Drawing	i	140	IV	Arch. Drawing	1	140	‘IV
Drawing	i	138	Ic	Drawing	1	138	Id
Bl. of Arch.	12	117	I	Pen and Ink	1	142	XII
				BL of Arch.	4	117	IV
		•		Design	8	Il8	II
				The’y of Des.	1	119	VII
SECOND YEAR
Hist, of Arch.	1	113	II	Hist, of Arch.	1	113	II
Construction	4	115	II, III	Construction	4	115	III
Graphics	2	135	XV	Graphics	2	135	XV
Heat, and				Sanitation	2	117	VI
Ventilation	1	116	V				
Blectricity	1	145	VII	Bus. Bthics	1	117	I
Water Color	1	142	XI	Drawing	4	138	Ila
Drawing	4	138	Ila	Modeling *	2	139	V
Design	8	118	III	Design	8	118	III
3
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	IO3
THE COLLEGE OF LAW
For several years a systematic movement has been
in progress, under the auspices of the bench and bar
of the country to elevate the standing and promote
the efficiency of the legal profession, and make it as
learned in fact as it is in name. The most essential
preliminary step to this end, as lawyers generally agree,
is to prescribe requirements and examinations more
comprehensive and rigorous as a test of qualifications
for admission to the bar. Under the influence largely
of the American Bar Association, the period now
commonly prescribed for the study of law in a college
is three years.
A period of three years’ study is prescribed for under-
graduates in the College of Law of the University of
Notre Dame. The courses lead, when satisfactorily
completed, to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate program comprises an additional or fourth
year of residal study, and leads to the degree of Master
of Laws.	■
The degree of Doctor of Laws (LL- D.) or Doctor of
Civil Law (D. C. L.) presupposes the degree of Bachelor
of Laws and a Bachelor’s degree in Arts or Science.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location of
the University for diligent and persevering work, it
is possible for industrious students to do at least a
fourth more a year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into
three classes, corresponding to each year of the pro-
gram leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate course is for students who have received
that degree and aim at attaining, by further study
> and practical work, to a higher grade of proficiency.
<1
104
bulletin of the
A full year of study in each class is obligatory. More-
over the student must pass a satisfactory general
examination at the close of each scholastic year. Grad-
uates entitled to vote are admitted to the bar on motion
of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are
admitted to the first year on presentation of a cer-
tificate of graduation from a four year High School
or Preparatory School of recognized standing, or by
examination in subjects mentioned on page 21. It is
strongly recommended that students complete the work
prescribed for a Bachelor’s degree in one of the Programs
of the College of Arts and Letters, before taking up
. the study of Law. If it is impossible for the student to
give more than two years to work of this nature, even
that much is highly desirable.
Students from other reputable law schools are re-
ceived at any time and allowed due credit for the work
previously done. They must, however, be in residence
for at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice of
the profession or have only been admitted to the bar,
as the case may be, are admitted to the Senior class
and entitled to the degree appropriate to their work
and standing at graduation in the following June.
' SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not intend to become candidates
for the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply
to add to their educational acquirements a knowledge
of the fundamental principles of law, may at any time
in the year have their names enrolled on the list of
special students. No extra expense is thereby incurred.
Yet they must be of sufficiently advanced age and
education to justify the belief that they can under-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	IO5
stand and appreciate instruction in the law. No par-
ticular academic entry requirement is prescribed for
them, aside from securing the consent of the Director
of Studies and being of sufficient age and capacity
to understand and profit by instruction in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that
an education is not complete without a knowledge of at
least the elementary legal principles. Many a person
has been forced to do exactly the contrary of what
he intended through his failure to understand the
essential elements of a contract. Many a one has been
compelled to pay heavy damages for personal injuries
caused by negligence, or failure to perform a duty,
or improper performance of it, where no liability would
exist if the law of torts had been known and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of the
text-books they studied, and such as have merely
attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligible
to appear for examination. As many law students
come from States in which this test is applied, the
use of text-books is deemed necessary. The books
used by students become peculiarly serviceable in their
subsequent practice. They may be purchased in the
Students’ Office at the University at the lowest retail
prices. The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25 a
year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded
at Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination
with text-book work, case readings and daily examina-
tions, its great value and utility can not be over-
io6
BULLETIN OB TUB
estimated. Bach subject is fully covered by lectures,
text-book work, weekly quiz, monthly theses, quar-
terly examinations, the reading of pertinent cases
and formal trials in the moot court and other courts of
the college. Students have also the advantage of attend-
ing important cases in the higher courts of South Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrious student
can accomplish twice as much in a given time at Notre
Dame as he can in an office or at home. With com-
parative immunity from distractions and temptations
of city life, he can give his entire time to study and
necessary recreation. In short, he can here study a
greater number of hours and do more class work day
by day than probably anywhere else in the country.
Students have from three to four recitations daily,
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. Brom one to two hours additional
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
two hours weekly are required for moot court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this
society and the moot court offer exceptional opportunity
and strong incentive to acquire readiness in debate,
fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much
benefit may be derived from attending the regular
classes in elocution and oratory in the College of Arts
and Letters.
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law Program
it is studied and kept before the class, with recitations
day by day at the same hour, until finished. It is
believed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would
be if frequently interrupted by the intervention of
other and dissimilar subjects.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
107
THE MOOT COURT
All third year students are required to attend and
participate in the exercises of the moot court. The
court is fully organized, having a judge, clerk, state’s
attorney, sheriff, coroner and reporter. Pleadings are
filed in the clerk’s office, served and returned by the
sheriff, brought to an issue with due formality by the
attorneys, and the trial proceeds under the rules of
evidence before a member of the Faculty acting as
judge.
In addition to the moot court, which corresponds to
the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully-
equipped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk,
master-in-chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its district
judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in their
work. The statement of facts in the cases tried is
furnished by the Faculty. Students acquire in this
way a knowledge of the customary procedure in the
regular courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether
any of them shows any more care in the choice of
books, or is better adapted for the use of students.
io8
BUI^TIN OF THE
All the latest reports of State and Federal courts are
on its shelves, and no difficulty is experienced at any
time in finding the cases needed for reference, thesis
writing and moot court work. A great library with a
crowdingly large attendance of students—too many
to be personally known by or to have personal attention
from the Faculty—may often be less available for use
or accessible than a comparatively small one. It happens
sometimes in such cases that twenty or more students
are found vainly scrambling at the same time to secure
possession of a particular report or text-book. Such
experience, fortunately, does not fall to the lot of the
young men studying at Notre Dame. Not only all the
latest reports, but likewise the leading text-books,
are to be found on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in Moot
court trials, but must not be carried to private rooms.
This rule is rigidly enforced by the librarian. It is
intended for the advantage and to facilitate the work
of the students in common, for all have a right to
feel reasonably certain that when a book is needed
it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
4,000, but so carefully have they been selected that
they may be said to surpass in practical utility many
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the law
lecture room. It is practically open all day and until
9:30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation are
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable hours
to law students. The library privileges are on a generous
scale, and students are not specially charged for making
proper use of the books, but if a book is lost or injured
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
109
through negligence the cost of the book is charged to
the borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings weekly. Second year students of the
College are members of it. They are required, each in
his turn, to participate in its debates and other exercises.
The debates commonly deal with questions germane to
the law, but subjects of history, political economy, and
the like, are also discussed; in addition, a thorough
drill in parliamentary law proceedings is given. An
excellent opportunity is afforded at the meeting of
the society to develop skill, power and fluency in public
speaking.
THE COURSES IN LAW
FIRST YEAR
Elements of- Law. fourteen weeks.
Real Property. Eighteen weeks.
Personal Property. Pour weeks. "
Criminal Law. Ten weeks.
Torts. Ten weeks.
Contracts. Sixteen weeks.
Persons and Domestic Relations. Ten weeks.
Sales. Eight weeks.
Agency. Ten weeks.
Partnership. Eight weeks.	.
English I. Thirty-six weeks, three times a week.
Elocution, weekly.
SECOND YEAR
Criminal Procedure. Ten weeks.
Damages. Twelve weeks.
Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy. Fourteen weeks.
IIO	BULLETIN OB THE'
Suretyship and Guaranty. Fourteen weeks.
Bills and Notes. Sixteen weeks.
Interpretation of Laws. Six weeks.
Insurance. Twleve weeks.
Bailments and Carriers. Ten weeks.
Wills, Executors and Administrators. Fourteen weeks.
Medical Jurisprudence. Lectures.
Parliamentary Law and Debating, weekly.
Logic. Eighteen weeks, four hours a week.
Ethics. Eighteen weeks, four hours a week.
THIRD YEAR
' Evidence, Civil and Criminal. Twelve weeks.
Constitutional Law. Twelve weeks.
Equity Jurisprudence. Twelve weeks.
Corporations, Private. Sixteen weeks.
Corporations, Public. Ten weeks.
International Law. Ten weeks.
Common Law Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Equity Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Code Pleadings. Twelve weeks.
Moot Court Practice, weekly.
Graduate Courses cover the entire field by way
of review, together with Moot Court practice, office
work, etc. The optional studies include Roman law,
Admiralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright,
Patents,- Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc.
UNIVERSITY OK NOTRE DAME
III
SCHEDULE OF CLASSES
first year
subjects
WEEKS
PERIODS
A WEEK
Elements of Law, Real and Personal Property		...36. . .	
	0 -	• • • 0 • • •
i Criminal Law, Torts, Contracts			r
	0 0 • • •	• • • 0 • • •
Persons, Agency, Sales, Partnership		. . .36. . .	
		
English, I		. . 36 .	a
		
Elocution III, IV			. . 36	
	• • ’0^• • •	
SECOND YEAR SUBJECTS		
Criminal Procedure, Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy, Damages . /		...36 . . .	c
		• • • 0 * • •
Bills and Notes, Suretyship and Guaranty, Interpretation of Laws . . .			.. .36 . . .	c
		
Insurance, Bailments and Carriers, Wills, Executors and Administrators		.. ,36 . . .	
		
Losie. Ethics		.. .36. . .	4
		• • • • • •
Medical Turisnrudence Lectures			4
		• • • T- * ’ ’
Parliamentary Law and Debatins		.. .36 . . .	. . . I . . .
		
THIRD YEAR SUBJECTS		
Corporations, Public and Private, Inter- national Law		.. .36. . .	. . . 3. . .
		
Evidence, Constitutional' Law, Equity I urisnrudence		.. .36 . . .	. . . 5 . . .
		
Common Law Pleadings, Equity Plead- ings. Code Pleading's				.. .36 . . .	. . .5.••
		
Moot Court 	■		...36 . . .	T
		
COURSES OF INSTRUCTIONS
{In the description of the courses of instruction an hour
means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation or
lecture room and one hundred and twenty minutes in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year, or eighteen weeks.)
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME ,	113
ANATOMY
I.	i
Human Histology. Laboratory work and demon-
strations. Preparations of the tissues and organs of the
human body given to each student, and their structure
demonstrated. This course is taught in connection with
Course I. under Human Physiology.
II.
Human Histology. Lectures, recitations and labo-
ratory work. The work covers a thorough course in
Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening,
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system—brain
and spinal cord, termination of nerve fibres, etc. Draw-
ings made from each preparation. Text-book, Piersol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Human Anatomy. Lectures and Recitations.’ Oste-
I
ology and the descriptive anatomy of the muscular,
vascular and nervous systems and of the organs of
special sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-book,
Gray.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
ARCHITECTURE
I. AND II.
HisTORY oe Architecture. This course includes
a study of the history, manners, customs, politics and
religion as well as of the Architecture of Egypt, Assyria,
Greece and Rome. It takes up the rise and development
of Christianity and the Christian types—Basilican,
Byzantine, Romanesque, Gothic and Renaissance in
all their phases. Some attention is paid to Oriental
styles. A comprehensive review is made of American
H4
BUEEETIN OB THE
work. In seminar the course is completed by a study
and discussion of the various phases of “The New Art,”
both abroad and in the United States.
Instruction is by text-book, lectures, readings and
research.
[Two hours a week for two terms. One hour a week
for one term.]
III.
Historic Ornament. A study of the origin and
evolution of all styles of ornament, and of its appli-
cation to architectural forms.
Instruction by text-book, lectures, readings, and
drawings in various media.
Text-book, Glazier.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
History or Sculpture. A brief historical review
of ancient and modern sculpture.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Marquand and Frothingham.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
V.
History or Painting. A brief historical and critical
review of Painting.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
CONSTRUCTION
I.
In Phis course the student obtains a thorough knowl-
edge of the materials and methods of masonry, car-
pentry, roofing, metal-working, painting. Bach trade
is considered separately, and at conclusion an exhaustive
if
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	115
study of specification writing and methods of estimat-
ing for it is made. Detail drawings of constructive
methods are made exactly as in an architect's office.
In the spring term of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on the campus one of his pro-
jects and to furnish all levels required by the builder
in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of the
architect’s level and compass.
The University constantly furnishes employment
to a large force of trained mechanics who will give
personal lessons to the students in all branches of these
trades. Inspection visits are made regularly as a sup-
plementary exercise in superintendence, to important
building operations in the neighborhood.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Fifteen points must be made in inspections and
drawings.
Text-book, Kidder’s Building Construction, Vols. I,
II; Kidder’s Handbook. Supplementary, Sweet’s Index.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
A thorough study of foundation work—caissons,
piles, grillage, spread and stepped footings; fire proof-
ing of all forms; the design and construction of steel
framing.
Working drawings for one year of the student’s proj-
ects are made. Bspecial care and accuracy are de-
manded in the preparation of the framing of plans and
details.
Instruction is by text-books and lectures. Bight
points must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vol. I, Frietag; Supplementary,
Sweet’s Index, Carnegie and Bethlehem “Millbooks.”
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Il6	BULLETIN OF THE
III.
A. study of Reinforced Concrete; Blevatorsj Power
plants for buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Five points must be made in inspection and drawings.
Text-books, Watson; Supplementary, Sweet's Index,
Concrete Handbooks.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Engineering. A course in which
the student is taught to solve graphically and analyt-
ically more complicated problems in structural design
and applied mechanics. Shoring, underpinning, retain-
ing walls, jointed trusses, arches, vaults and domes
are the more important topics.
Instruction by text-book. Twelve points must be
made in instructions and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vols. I, III; Whitman.
[Two hours a week for one term, three hours a week
for one term.]
V.
Heating and Ventilation. This course is a study
of the theory and practice of heating and ventilating
public buildings and dwelling houses. The different
systems of heating are carefully examined and studied.
The radiation of heat from furnaces, the different
systems of piping, condition of air as to moisture,
amount of air required, causes and best means adopted
to secure pure air; the necessity of good ventilation
and the latest approved methods of securing this are
some of the topics considered in this study.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Carpenter.
, [One hour a week for one term.] ■
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	117
VI.
Sanitation. The following are the topics covered in
this course: The carrying away of surface water and
wastes from the building; pipes'and fittings; one and
two-pipe roughing-in systems; traps; domestic waste
supplies; pumping engines; heating of water for
domestic purposes; plumbing fixtures.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Cosgrove.
[One hour a week for one term.]
BUSINESS ETHICS
I.
In this course are given descriptions of a system of
book-keeping suited to the needs of an architects’
business, a system of building accounts, filing systems
for catalogue and prints, a card index system for prints
and general information; of forms for agreements with
bonds, and for certificates; the laws affecting clients,
contractors and architects; and the rules of professional
ethics in private practice, competitions and municipal
affairs.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Wait.
[One hour a week for one term.]
DESIGN
I.
Edements of Architecture. This is a course of
drawing. Thirty-two plates of standard size (or their
equivalent) will be made during the year. They consist
of measured drawings of the Roman and Greek orders,
of the various details associated with them and of
simple problems involving their use; of lettering; of
BUDDWN OS' THB
118
exercises in wash -and color; and of studies in shades
and shadows and perspective.
Bach plate will be examined by the Professor in charge,
and may be marked "Pass/’ “Mention,” or “Highest
Mention,” counting X, or i point, respectively.
All plates must be drawn and at least fifteen points
registered.
Instruction is by text-book.
Text-books, Ware Don Mauch, McGoodwin.
[Bight hours a week for two terms.]
II,	IIB AND IV.
These courses are the most important on the program.
In the solving of the problems the student makes use
of every item of information that he has acquired in
his other class-work, for the aim of the instruction
in design is, primarily, practicability. This plan is
realized by major and minor problems of varying
degrees of difficulty. These problems are stated in
programs that are made definite and practical and as
like actual conditions as possible.
Second year men are required to execute eight minor
and eight major problems; third year men, eight minor
and six major problems; and fourth year men, four
minor and three major problems and the thesis.
These designs are criticized by the Professor in charge,
or by some able architect especially invited. They may
be marked “Pass,” “Mention,” or “Highest Mention,”
counting X, M or 1 point respectively for minor prob-
lems, and 2, 3 or 4 points for major problems.
Bifteen points must be registered in second year
design, as many in third year design, and eight in
fourth year design before thesis work is started.
[Bight, eight and ten hours a week,
respectively, for six terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
119
V, VI.
Structurae Design. These courses have the same
relative importance as the courses in design. The
analogy goes further, the work is given as major and
minor problems of varying degrees of difficulty and
is judged and marked in the same manner. The scope
of the problems will vary from the making of an ordinary
footing plan to the framing of the structural steel of
a large dome.
The amount of work and the points required to be
registered is the same for the same year under Design
II, III, IV.
[Eight hours a week for six terms.]
VII.
Theory oe Design. A. thorough study of the prin-
ciples of planning and proportion supplemented by
study of the perfection and faults of the world’s famous
buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Robinson.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Church Design. This course is conducted by means
of lectures and research. It includes the arrangements
of sanctuaries, sacristies and baptisteries as affected
by liturgical needs. The subject of church furniture
and accessories is also discussed.
[One hour a week for one term.]
ASTRONOMY
Astronomy. Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students
and to give them the training and information necessary
for intelligently executing certain departments of work
120
BULLETIN OR THE
to which they may be assigned in the course of their
professional career. The course comprises a study of
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of
more' precision than those used in ordinary surveying.
The adjustments and use of these instruments are
considered, and instruction is given in methods of
observation and computation; different methods for
finding latitude, longitude and time are studied in
detail, and the methods for finding right ascensions and
declination; methods of making observations and their
adjustments, and discussion of errors. Conversion «of
solar time into sidereal, and sidereal time into solar.
A course in Least Squares is given with Practical
Astronomy and comprises a study of a review of the
theory of probability; • errors and their probability,
the probability curve, and probability integral; also
the solution of observational equations, average error,
mean error, approximate formulas and propagation of
errors; normal equations and formulas fitted to
observations.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
*
BACTERIOLOGY
Lectures and Laboratory Work. Lectures on the
form, structure, reproduction and classification of bac-
teria. The relations of bacteria to disease, etc. The
principles of sterilization, thermal and chemical, are
pointed out. The early part of the laboratory work is
occupied in the preparation of the various culture
media and in studying pure cultures of certain non-
pathogenic bacteria in these media. Observations on
the microscopic characteristics of bacteria and special
attention to the microscopic technique in bacteriological
work. Later on in the course some time is devoted to
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	121
practice in the isolation and identification of pathogenic
germs by the various staining processes. Inoculation of
animals: Bacteriological investigations of water, air and
soil. Text-book, Abbott’s Principles of Bacteriology.
pive hours a week for one term.]
BOTANY
I.
Botany. Lectures and recitations on the morphology
of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed; the
development of the embryo and the processes of pollina-
tion and fertilization; the study of the vegetable cell,
of its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues and
the various physiological phenomena; the structure,
growth, reproduction and general classification of the
algae, fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the higher plants.
Text-book, Bastin’s College Botany, Barnes & Coulter.
pour hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Botanical Laboratory. Supplementary to Course I.
Special microscopical study of thallophyta, bryophyta,
pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to in Course I.
Drawings must be made of all plants examined. Plants
under these headings are collected and put before the
student that he may become familiar with their morphol-
ogy, structure and classification. The course is to ac-
company or to be preceded by Course I. Provision is
also made in this course for students in pharmacy to take
a special laboratory course in pharmaceutical botany.
Study of the determination and classification of the
simpler plants. The analysis of the phanerogams
occupies the time during the spring months and the
student is made familiar with the habitat and charac-
122	bulletin OF THE
teristics of the local flora. Text-book for classification
of plants, Kellerman’s Spring Flora.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.] '
III.
Advanced Botany. Lectures, recitations, demonstra-
tions. The work of this course is essentially the same
as that laid out in Strasburger’s or Vine’s text-book of
Botany. Special study is made of the physiology,
ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and classification of
plants. Text-book, Strasburger.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Laboratory for Advanced Botany. Supplementary
to Course III., and either folldwing or accompanying it:
(a)	Ptant Histology and Physiology. Half of the
time allotted for laboratory work is devoted to plant
histology and physiology. The student is required to
study practically the method of killing, fixing, embed-
ding, sectioning, staining, mounting and drawing of
plant tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(b)	Plant Classification Advanced. The other
half of the laboratory work is devoted to the deter-
mination and classification of the more difficult plants,
the compositae, grasses, mosses, myxomycetes, etc.
Herbarium study is required, as well as preparing and
collecting plants for preservation. During spring and
autumn frequent excursions into the neighboring fields
and woods are made for the purpose of studying and
collecting for preservation the local aquatic and land
flora. Text-book, Britton’s or Gray’s Manual. «
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Systematic Botany. Principally laboratory and her-
barium work in special groups of phanerogams and
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
123
cryptogams. Study of nomenclature and classification
of plants. This course is designed to meet the needs or
inclinations of students specializing in botany. * Library,
reference books and seminar work.
Graduate Work in Botany. Original research in
systematic botany. Plant history and cytology. Pre-
paratory to the Master’s or Doctor’s Degree.
CHEMISTRY
I.
(a)	Generae Chemistry. A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typical
compounds. Text-book, Maguire's Elements of Chemistry
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the labora-
tory the work of the Course (la.) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) Generad Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
'laboratory. A course in the fundamental principles of
the science in connection with the consideration of the
non-metals and a somewhat detailed study - of the
metals. It is intended for those students who have
made no previous study of chemistry and is equivalent
to the work done in I. and III.
[Eour periods a week for two terms.]
(5) The laboratory consists in the first term of the
preparation and study of the gases and the principles
involved in such work. In the second term metals are
taken up and considered with regard to their qualitative
separation.
[Pour periods a week for two terms.]
124
BULLETIN OB THE
III.	~
(a)	Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A complete study of the elements and
their most important compounds, following the classifi-
cation based on MendeleefPs Law, and including a
discussion of the theories of the science. Text-book,
Alexander Smith's College Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(6)	Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory course
to accompany Course III., the work consisting of the
preparation by the student of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
weights, verification of the fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, there
is taken up the study of the reactions involved in the
separation and detection of the more common inorganic
bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of salts,
and the complex substances, such as earths, ores, ashes,
etc. Text-books, Perkin and Thorp, supplemented with
lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
(a)	Qualitative Analysis. A course arranged for
the students in ’Pharmacy, comprising a study of the
commoner metals and acids, their reactions and separa-
tion. Text-book, Perkin.
[Dour hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Quantitative Analysis. Course suited to the
needs of the students in Pharmacy, comprising the
determination of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	125
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Complete analysis of a number of
simple salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis
of many complex substances. Text-book, Talboi.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
(a) Elementary Organic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their
properties. Special attention is given to the aliphatic
and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
(&) Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prep-
aration by the student in the laboratory of the most
important and typical organic compounds and the
investigation of their properties. Text-book, G alter-
man’s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
(a)	Urine .Analysis. A course of laboratory exer-
cises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as
well as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(6)	Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of poi-
soning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisons to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
126	BULLETIN OS' THE
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
i.	Gas Analysis.
ii.	Water Analysis.
iv.	Commercial Organic Analysis.
v.	Oils and J?ats.
vi.	Iron Analysis.
Text-books, Hempel, Mason, Wiley and current journals.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
•Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism, •
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. ' The term
is spent principally in the making of organic prepara-
tions by methods demanding special care, skill and
accuracy in the student.
[Six to eight hours a week for two terms.]
(c)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. This term
is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,
special notes and reference work.
[Bight hours a week for one term.]
General Pharmaceutical Chemistry. In this
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	127
course the chemical bases and their compounds are
considered, with special reference to their importance
in pharmacy and materia medica. Text-books, Sadt-
ler's and Trimble's Pharmacetdical Chemistry.
XL
(a)	Electrochemistry. Lectures and recitations •
on the principles of electrochemistry and their appli-
cation in the chemical industries, separation of metals,
the preparation of chemical elements and electrosyn-
thesis of compounds. 'Text-book, Lilpke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electro-
chemistry, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electro-
metallurgy. Text-book, Lupke.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(c)	Electrochemical Analysis. A laboratory
course for those who have completed (a) and (6).
Quantitative determination and separation ‘ of metals
and anions electrolytically using stationary and revol-
ving electrodes, the mercury cathode and their combina-
tions. Text-book, Smith's Electro-anaylsis.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
History of Chemistry. The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book,
Meyer. Reference to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.)
r 128	BULLETIN OF THE
XIII.
(a)	Physical Chemistry. Lectures and recitations.
A mathematical exposition of chemical theory on the
subject of gas density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the
phase rule, thermochemistry, photo-chemistry, etc.
Text-book, Jones.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Experimental Physical Chemistry. Labo-
ratory work to accompany Course XIII (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, mole-
cular weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling
point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric deter-
minations of inorganic substances. Special reference-
work. [Live hours a week for one term.]
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original research work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine.
* >
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
129
FIRST YEAR
Moral, as found in Wilmer’s Handbook of the Chris-
tian Religion or a similar work.
SECOND YEAR
Dogma, as found in Wilmer’s Handbook of the Chris-
tian Religion or a similar work.
THIRD YEAR
Apologetics. Religion. Pre-Christian Revelation.
The Christian Revelation. The Catholic Church.
Text-book, Wilmer’s Handbook of the Christian Re-
ligion or a similar work. Important questions of Church
History will be discussed in this course.
Sacred Scripture. There will be selections from the
Bible for each class, so that the whole Bible will be
read in the three years’ course.
Advanced Work in Christian Doctrine. Special
questions. More detailed presentation of some periods
in Church History. This is an elective course.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are con-
sidered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, double curved, and warped surfaces;
problems relating to tangent planes, to single curved,
double curved and warped surfaces; intersection of
surfaces; spherical projections; orthographic, stere-
ographic, globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
construction of maps, shades and shadows; linear per-
spective; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises' requiring
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry,
are added by the instructor. Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
5
130
BULLETIN OB THB
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supply omis-
sions; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land;
dividing up land; public land survey. Text-book,
Breed and Hosmer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught
in the class room; practice in keeping field notes;
computation and plots.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Surveying. This course is a more complete treat-
ment of the theory of Surveying than Course II. It
treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds
of engineering instruments; problems pertaining to
solar attachment; topographical surveying with the
transit and stadia; mining surveying, mining claims;
survey of mines with shafts and drifts; determining
positions of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface;
Hydrographic surveying which comprises a study of
the methods of making soundings and locating the
same; the use of bench-marks, gauges, and water
levels; stream measurements, methods and instruments
used. City surveying, including a study of re-surveys,
topographic surveys, city plan, location of streets,
width of grades, field notes, indexing and records.
Text-book, Johnson.
[Four hours a week for twelve weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	131
V.
Surveying. Exercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the fields, leveling; - practice in
hydrographic surveying.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Geodesy. This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil and Mining Engineering students and comprises
a study of the instruments and methods of observation,
base measurements and field work of the triangulation;
method of least squares, elementary course; calcula-
tion of the triangulation, the theory of probable errors;
geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is
followed by a brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
Text-book, Johnson.
[Eour hours a week for six weeks.]
VIL.
Railroad Surveying. This course comprises all
the theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets; obstacles to location of curves;
special problems in curves; theory of compound curves;
turnouts and crossings; curving the rail on curves and
elevation of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical
curves; earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory
of excavation and embankment; correction in excava-
tion on curves; cross-section leveling; theory of the
transition curve and practical appplications. Text-book,
Crandall.
pour hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Railroad Surveying. Exercise in the field; staking
132
BUEEEFIN OF THE
out and running tangents, simple, compound and tran-
sition curves; execution on the ground of many prob-
lems previously treated theoretically; survey for a short
line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and setting
slope stakes; making profiles and maps; calculating
the necessary excavations and embankments and cost
of construction; culverts.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
^Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises
a study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
student to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation
of energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction,
etc.
[For Civil Engineering Students, five hours a week for
first term. Two hours a week for second term.]
[For Students in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, and
Mining Engineering, five hours a week for
fourteen weeks.]
Mechanics of Materials. This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students,
and to prepare them, by study of the action and effect
of forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
133
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of
the materials of engineering, their properties and method
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and con-
tinuous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns
are examined according to Euler’s, Rankin’s and other
formulae, and results compared. Some of the other
subjects considered in this course are torsion of shafts,
the transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and
torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams, rein-
forced concrete beams, plate girders and other forms.
Then is studied the subjects, resilience and work,
impact and fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal
tension and flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,
the course closing with a study of the mathematical
theory of elasticity.
[For students of Civil Engineering, three hours a week
for two terms.]
[For students of Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and
Chemical Engineering, three hours a week
for twenty-two weeks.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended
to familiarize the student with the practical details
of laying-rout and constructing highways, the .method
of drainage, grading, and most suitable road covering,
the improvement of streets in cities and materials
used for paving and covering. The manner of pre-
paring the street before paving is placed in position is
fully considered and illustrated. The course includes
a thorough discussion of the theory of pavements and
a description of the various materials used, such as
134
bulletin of the
cobble and stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood and broken
stone pavements. The method of preparing plans
and specifications for the various conditions arising
are considered and original plans are prepared by
students. Attention is also given to the construction
of street-car tracks in paved streets. Text-book, Baker.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering. This course is taken by students
of Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches
the best approved methods of constructing engineer-
ing works and the styles of structures suitable for
different localities. The study is quite comprehensive,
including the general theory of the arch and appli-
cation of the voussoir arch; the theory of earth pressure,
and the design of retaining walls; foundations suit-
able for structures of various classes in connection
with which the student becomes acquainted, not only
with the methods for • ascertaining the bearing power
of the foundation, but also the means for constructing
deep foundations. The methods for tunnel construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included
in the course and given by text-book and lectures.
The part pertaining to masonry construction include
a study of the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the
manner of testing foundations under water, the crib
and open caisson process, the pneumatic process, the
theory of masonry arches and design, arch- centers,
selection of site for bridge piers and arrangement
of spans, the details of construction of bridge piers
and manner of location, specifications for masonry,
etc. Text-books, Howe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
135
of the principles and methods of drainage and disposal
of sewage in populous districts: shape, material and
calculation of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ven-
tilation; separate and combined systems compared;
pollution of rivers; chemical precipitation; results
and costs of purification; general municipal and do-
mestic sanitation; inspection of neighboring works.
Text-books, Staler and Pierson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roofs. This course comprises a
study of the different systems of trussed bridges and
roof trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced
when loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure
and the effect of wind included. Both 'graphical and
analytical methods are used. Besides the various
systems of trussed bridges, which are studied in detail
the plate girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges
draw bridges, and roofs of various designs are given
equal attention; the purpose being to familiarize
the student with the different forms and enable him
to design and to estimate the cost of construction.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Rive hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically deter-
mined by the application of the principles of the force
and equilibrium polygons; also the determination of
stresses in bridge trusses with parallel chord and with
broken chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive
wheel loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof
136
BUDDETIN OB THE
trusses, graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical
and unsymmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-
ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams;
temperature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied
to continuous girders. This course is supplemented
by full explanations, notes, examples and problems.
Text-book, Merriman.	.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
An elementary course two hours a week for two
terms is given to students following the Program in
Design and Short Program in Architecture.
XVI.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study
of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydro-
dynamics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects admitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem
with friction: Chezy’s formula; Hutter’s formula;
flow over wires, and through tubes; flow in pipes;
loss of head in friction and other losses; flow in conduits,
- canals, and rivers, velocities in cross sections; methods
of gauging the flow, measurement of water power,
dynamic pressure of flowing water; designing of water-
works and standpipes; hydraulic motors and relative
merits; discussion of water wheels of different types,
and a study of the conditions determining high effi-
ciencies; classification of turbines, and a complete
study and discussion of the different forms.
[For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a
week for two terms. For students in Elec-
trical, Mechanical, Mining and Chemical
Engineering, two hours a week for
twenty-two weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	137
DRAWING, ARTISTIC
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough
foundation in drawing for those who wish to make
Art a profession, but the courses are so arranged as
to be accessible to other students. The system of
teaching, which is that followed in the best art schools,
is intended to devlop the individuality of each student,
so that with a good understanding of the principles
of art he may interpret nature according to his own
temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, objects and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings., the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer
many beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes,
and the classes are taken out in the summer for this
study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was carefully selected at the National School
of Tine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
Fule Figure. The Diadumenos (British Museum);
the Doryphyros (Naples). These two figures are full
size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically:
the Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michael
Angelo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre);
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
Busts and Heads. Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus (Rome,
the Capitol); Cato (Rome and Vatican); Cicero
(Rome, the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa
(Louvre); Venus (Vatican); Centurion (Naples);
Ariadne (the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples);
Vestal (Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters
of Niobe (Florence.)
138
bulletin of thf
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc..
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and
architectural ornaments, taken from monuments of
antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and
of elements of the human figure (hands, feet, etc.)
from the antique and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(a)	Drawing from casts or ornaments purely geo-
metrical, such as mouldings, ovoices, dentils, etc.
Sketching from simple objects.
(5)	Drawing from casts of ornaments of which
the elements are living forms, such as ornamental
leaves and flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves
and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. Lectures on
perspective, direction of the principal lines „in relation
to the horizon. Blementary notions of the five orders
of architecture.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure; hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketch-
ing from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a)	Drawing from the antique, heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape.
Applications of perspective.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
139
from the costumed model. Still life in water colors.
History of Art.
HI.
Life Class. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science
Hall. Still life painting in water colors and oil. Land-
scape painting. Drawing for illustrations.
IV.
Sketch Class. One hour a week. The students have
among themselves an organization, “The Crayon Club,”
the object of which is to sketch college scenes and to
do illustrative work; these sketches are brought into
class and criticized.
V.
Modeling. In the spring term of the Senior year,
Architecture modeling in clay is taken up. The objects
modeled are architectural forms, copied from casts or
made from the student’s drawings of his own work, as
his progress and ability may warrant.
IV.
Class of Decorative Design. The object of this
department is to prepare students for professional
work in decorative designing of all kinds. They will
take up the study of historical ornaments and will-
be taught the several principles of the arrangement
of designs, and from personal sketches of plants and
flowers will be shown the art of making original de-
signs for wall paper, book covers, stained glass, carpets,
interior decorations, metal plates, etc. No particular
program is given out as the. teaching is purely in-
dividual.
140
BULLETIN OB THE
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
%
Drawing A and B (Elementary Freehand, Lettering,
Geometrical Drawing) are required to take up drawing
I, II.
Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for
each credit hour in the schedule.
I.
Freehand. This course consists in sketching with pen-
cil from various models of the different machine parts.
Later in the term, the use of instruments is taken up
illustrating problems in the Engineering course. Text-
book, Jamison's Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the
principles of projection, methods of shop-drawing,
tinting, tracing, blueprinting, lineshading and the
preparation of working drawings of complete machines.
This course must be preceded by course I. Text-
book, Jamison's Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates
is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic
and spherical projections, shades and shadows, per-
spective and isometric projections.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Architectural Drawing. Exercises in instrumental
drawing, pencil and brush work and lettering, followed
by problems in orthographic projections, intersections,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	14I
shades and shadows and perspective with particular
reference to architectural subjects.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course
I. Text-book, Reed	*
VI.
StereoTomy. This course comprises a study of
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geom-
etry to the determination of the forms and sizes of
the stones used in the construction of the different
classes of arches and masonry structures. This course
is given by lectures in the drawing room, explaining
the construction of templates, and the use of directing
instrument; also explanations of methods of draw-
ing plans, elevation and development of oblique arches,
wing walls and the like. A certain number of plates
and drawings is required, illustrating the methods of
performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry construction, foundations, dams, piers,
abutments, culverts, and arches. Text-book, French.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from simple
framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of various
designs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineering.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail draw-
ings,—a short general course of bridge designing.
[Tw’o hours a week for one term.]
142
bulletin of the
VIII.
Machine Drawing. A continuation of Course I.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical de-
sign with calculation of dimensions and construction
of drawings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low’s
Machine Drawing and Design.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Treehand. The principles of freehand drawing
in pencil and pen from objects, and later from bio-
logical specimens, plants, animals and microscopical
preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
Freehand. Advanced drawing from plants and
anatomical dissections of animals. Illustrations for
publications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Water Color. Drawing in water color from still
life and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
Rendering in Water Color. The rendering of
architectural drawings, including perspectives,—cast-
ing of shadows, color treatments of buildings and
handling of foreground and background.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIII.
Pen and Ink. Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art;
followed by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
i university OF NOTrE dame	143
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Applied Electricity. A course of lectures and
recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on
the general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
application to practical work, as follows: Setting up
and testing primary and secondary batteries, systems
of call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire
and burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines,
switch boards and accessories. Experiments with
induction coils, magnets, switches, voltmeters, am-
meters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers and other
measuring instruments. The study of direct current
generators and motors, arc and incandescent lighting
systems, street railway machinery and appliances, -elec-
tric heating and forging, electrolytic process, etc.
Text-book, Sivoope’s Practical Electricity.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Applied Electricity. Lectures and laboratory
work on the construction and testing of switches,
magnets, measuring instruments, induction coils, etc.
The calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits
for lighting and power, the experimental study of
alternating current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to
special purposes. This course must be preceded by
Course I. {Course I. and II. are required in the Short
Program Electrical Engineering; they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy.)
(Five hours a week for two terms.]
144
BULLETIN OB THE
Dynamo-Electric Machinery. Recitations on the
physical reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical
points, theory of armature winding, the mathematical
theory of alternating currents, phase relations, modern
forms of single phase, and multiphase generators and
motors, design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon's
Dynamo Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason's Alter-
nating Currents.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Electrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring
buildings for lights and power, testing circuits for •
insulation and grounds, construction and operation of
storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
characteristic curves of particular machines under
different conditions, efficiency, tests of motors by
absorption dynamometer methods, alternating current
dynamo and transformer tests, the testing of storage
batteries, and complete plant efficiency tests. Careful
notes are taken.
[Eour hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Designing. The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location
of circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawing
of direct and alternating current dynamos. Raying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Dynamo-Electric Machinery.	A class in direct
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
145
currents for the Juniors in Electrical Engineering.
Accompanied by a course in Laboratory.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
VII.
Applied Electricity, Laboratory and Lectures
on the use of electricity in buildings, systems of wiring,
materials used, the Underwriting requirements for
study bells and telephones, electric lighting, phyto-
me‘try and illumination. Lor students in Architecture.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Power Transmission. Lectures and recitations on
pole lines, underground work, limits of voltage, insu-
lators, choice of frequency, cost of construction, de-
preciation and other financial matters.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
Electric Railways. Lectures and recitations on
track and overhead construction, cars, trucks, motors
and systems of control for both direct and alternat-
ing current, sub-stations, operation and financial
considerations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Telephony. Laboratory and lectures on general
principles, intercommunicating systems, switchboard
’ systems, manual and automatic operation, cost of
equipment, maintenance and depreciation.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XI.
Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony. Experi-
mental practice and lectures on the theories involved
in the construction and operation of the leading systems,
146	BULLETIN of the	*
oscillators and sending apparatus, detectors and receiv-
ing devices, turning to prevent interference.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Illuminating Engineering. Lectures on the theory
and operation of the various kinds of electric and
other lamps, distribution of light and the location of
lamps to produce the best illumination, practical
problems and the study of particular institutions,
the cost per candle power or per candle foot including
first cost, attendance, breakage and depreciation.
[Two hours a week for ten weeks.]
XIII.
Inspection Trip to Chicago. Study of the larger
power, lighting and telephone installations, also factory
methods in several typical industrial establishments,
trips to the hydraulic and steam generating plants
along the St .Joseph river.
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I.
. Readings and Declamations. This courseis designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Each
student is required to give two declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of Course
I. Each student is required to give three declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
‘ III.
Practical Elocution. Exercises in breathing, voice
culture and action. The principles of pronunciation
and emphasis and their application in the reading of
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
147
selections. Text-book, Fidton and Trueblood’s Practical
Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Practical Blocution. Burther exercises in breath-
ing, voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and
time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on
the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and True-
blood’s Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.] _
V.
Oral Discussions. The application of formal logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches, '
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and
a course in logic are required for admission to this
course. Sections are limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Oratory. A study of the great orators of ancient
and modern times. Bach student is required to write
and deliver a biographical oration on one of the great
orators. Lectures on methods of public address. Courses
III. and IV. above, and course I. in Bnglish are re-
quired for admission to this course. Sections are
limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VIL
Shakespearean Reading. The critical and artistic
reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with
stage action. The students present the play by scenes
before the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for
admission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-
four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
148
BULLETIN OF THE
VIII.
Assembly Work. This course is designed to supple-
ment the other courses in this department. It consists
of debates, short orations, minute speeches, declama-
tions, impromptu and drill work in parliamentary lav/.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
ENGLISH
I.
Genung’s Principes of Rhetoric. A study of the
complete text. Frequent practice in simple theme work,
versification. Writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.*
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Bssay and Oration. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Poetry and the Poets. Texts, theory and
critical study.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
III.
Fiction, (a) The Short Story, technically, historically
and critically considered.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b) The Novel, technically, historically and critically
considered.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
* Every Freshman will be obliged to follow a class in correct English, one
hour a week, unless his written work gives evidence that he may be dispensed
from this special exercise. Any student notably deficient in correct English
will be obliged to take this course.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
149
IV.
The Drama, (a) Historical Survey of the Drama.
Greek and Roman Dramatists. Liturgical, Morality
and Miracle Plays. Technique of the Drama.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(6)	Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of
Shakespeare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen weeks.]
(c)	Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present
time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects specified attention will be given
to current productions with a view of properly ac-
quainting the student with the writers of the day.
Graduate Work in English. Students wishing to
do advanced work in English will be provided with
library facilities and led through the usual work for the
degree of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Eaculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form
or epoch, or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by professors make up the course.
GEOLOGY
I.
Principles of Geology. Lectures, recitations, dem-
onstrations. The study of the general features of the
earth; the material composing the accessible parts of
the earth; the arrangements of the material in rocks;
the causes of geological changes; the history of the
earth and the various forms of life that existed in the
150
BULLETIN or THE
different periods of successive geological ages. Text-
book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Mineralogy. The object of this course is to train
the student to identify minerals by their physical
characteristics, such as crystal form, cleavage, color,
hardness and specific gravity without having to resort
to blowpipe or chemical tests except in the rare minerals.
Recitations are made upon drawers of minerals in which
the student points out the distinguishing features by
which he recognizes the different minerals. Text-
book, Dana.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice' in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Crystallography. In this course there is made a
complete study of the laws in the different systems of
crystal formation, by means of laboratory work in
models, natural crystals and cleavage specimens. Text-
book, Williams.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
V.
Petrography. This course is a study of rocks with
regard to their classification, structure, mineralogical
constituents, chemical composition and alterations; a
study of the physical characters of the minerals shown
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	151
in thin transparent rock sections with the aid of the
microscope; a practical study of rocks in the hand *
specimens and also in summer field work.
[Two hours a, week for two terms.]
VI.
Geology, Physical and Chemical. A course treating
of the origin and alterations of rocks, of general eruptive
and earthquake action, metamorphism, faulting, joint-'
ing, and mountain building: the action of atmospheric
agencies, surface and underground water. All of which
subjects are especially considered in their application
to mining pursuits. Text-book, Chamberlain and Salis-
bury's Geology.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Geology, Economic Mining. A study of the genesis
of the useful ore deposits, both metallic and non-
metallic; an analysis of the relation existing between
structural, dynamic and chemical geology, petrography
and the ore deposits encountered in mining operations.
Frequent reference is made to the bulletins, monographs
and reports of the United States Geological Survey.
Text-books, Spurr, Reis.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
GERMAN
I.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation from German into
English of simple prose; translation of English exercises
into German. Reading of short stories and selections
from more difficult prose.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
152
BULLETIN OB THE
II.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history. Sight
reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems
and prose writing. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; Best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK
I.
Homer. Iliad. Text Edition.
Lysias. Select Orations.
St. John Chrysostom. Eutropius. (Elective.)
Prose Composition.
[Eour hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Homer. Odyssey. Text Edition. (Elective.)
Selections from Herodotus.
St. Basil. De Profanis Scriptoribus.
ST. Gregory. Machabees. (Elective.)
Advanced5 Prose Composition.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Demosthenes. The Speech on the Crown, or the
Olynthiacs and the Philippics.
Thucydides. One book, selected. (Elective.)
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
153
Aeschylus. One play, selected. (Elective.)
Sophocles. Oedipus Tyrannus.
Primer of Greek Literature. Jebb.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Ruripides. One play, selected.
Aristophanes. One play, selected.
Pindar. Selected Odes. (Elective.)
Greek Fathers: St. Basil: The Martyr Gordius.—
St. John Chrysostom: The Return of Bishop Flavian.—
St. Gregory Nazianzen: Funeral Oration of Caesarius.
(Elective.)
Plato. The Apology and Crito.
Thesis. Subject assigned or selected with approval
of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
Graduate Work in Greek. Advanced courses -of
instructionTn the Greek languages and literature will be
provided for graduate students who look forward to
the Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center of work
will be the Greek seminar, devoted to the interpretation
of passages selected for that purpose by the director
of the seminar, and to a critical study of one particular
author or of a group of authors in the same department
of Greek literature; as for instance, Homer, Plato or
the orators, the historians, the dramatists, etc.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of comparative philology, on
comparative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
For those who desire a broader basis for their lin-
guistic studies, an elementary course in Sanskrit will
be offered.
154
BULLETIN OF THE
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of
the Hellenic world. Readings and examinations on
required texts.
pour hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the barbarian invasions.
Readings and examinations on required texts.
In both courses the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges' The Ancient City.
pour hours a week for one term.]
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
II.
(a) The History of the Middle Ages from the
invasion of the barbarians, and the history of the
periods of the Renaissance and the Reformation to the
Trench Revolution. Readings and examinations on
required texts.
pour hours a week for one term.]
(5)	The General History of Europe from the
Trench Revolution to the present time. Readings and
examinations on required texts.
pour hours a week for one term.]
HI.
The History of the British Isles to the Rev-
olution in 1769. Tor the narrative Gardiner's Student's
History is used as a text and is supplemented by lectures.
In the study of the development of political institutions
Feilden's Constitutional History is used. In addition,
students shall make free use of the library in preparing
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
155
special topics upon which they will report in class.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY
IV.
(a)	American History from Its Beginning to
the Present Time. A large part of the work of this
course consists in the preparation and presentation in
class of special topics by the students. An effort will
be made to train the student in the use of original
sources as well as in the discriminating use of secondary
works. Weekly written tests are given upon the lectures
and the assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	American Church History from Its Begin-
ning to the Present Time.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IRISH HISTORY
(a)	Irish History from the Bareiest Coeonists
to the Present Time. The purpose of the course is to
acquaint the student with the true story of * Ireland
by presenting a statement of facts. Barly Irish religious
beliefs, customs, racial characteristics, systems of
government are discussed, and specific topics are as-
signed for research.
(b)	A course of lectures on the modern Celtic move-
ment with a study of the modern Irish writers.
• [Four hours a week for one term.]
POLISH HISTORY
VI.
History of the primitive Slavs. The Rise of the Polish
Nation. The Bpoch of the Piast-Dynasty (962-1386.)
156
bulletin of the
The Jagiellonian Bpoch (1386-1572).
Poland during the rule of the Fleeter Kings (1572-
1795).
Poland in its Partitions. Prom 1795 to the present
time. Polish ^migration.
No particular text-book is used in this course. It
is a lecture-course; and the student is required to
read up the principal authors, along the line of the
notes gathered from the lectures in class.
,	GENERAL HISTORY
VII.
A general course in medieval and modern history with
special reference to its most important periods.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
Research Work in History. Facilities are offered
to graduate students who wish to do advanced work
in history leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s
degree. Evidence of ability to begin specializing must
be given by candidates who have received their Bach-
elor’s degree at another College. The work is directed
in the seminar and is supplemented by lectures.
JOURNALISM
I.
Principles oe Journalism. History and Develop-
ment of Journalism up to the present day. Studies of
leading journalists in the past.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Newsgathering and reporting; preparation of copy;
copy-reading; proof-reading; editorial writing. Amer-
ican Politics and Government.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	157
III.
Newspaper Administration; Advertising; the Juris-
prudence of Journalism; Modern European History
and Politics as reflected in the press.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.] '
IV.
Newspapermaking; Comparative Journalism; De-
partment work. Special lectures on the ethics of Journal-
ism. Special Problems connected with Trades Unions
and Combinations of Capital.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
LATIN
I.
Livy. Selections. Dennison.
Vergil. Bucolics and Georgies. Frieze.
Cicero. De Senectute and De Amictia. Shuckburgh-
Egbert.
Prose Composition. Scheier.
[Pive hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Cicero. De Oratore. Wilkins.
Horace. Odes and Satires. Wickham.
Advanced Prose Composition. Scheier.
[Pive hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Livy. Book I. Dennison.
Horace. The Literary Epistles and the Ars Poetic1.
Wickham.
Tacitus. Agricola and Germania. Gudeman;
Terence. One Play, selected.
. Original Themes. (Two a month.)
158	bulletin or THE
Seminar. Papers on the Authors and their Works.
(Once a month.)
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Quintilian. De Institutione Oratoria, Books X. and
XII. Frieze.
Plautus. Captivi. Barber.
Cicero. De Officiis. Crowell.
A Thesis. Subject assigned or selected with approval
of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
Graduate Work in Latin. Advanced courses of
instruction in the Latin language and literature will
be provided for graduate students who are candidates
for the degree of Master or Doctor. The work will be
directed in the seminar and be devoted to a critical
study of one particular author or group of authors.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on comparative philology and comparative
grammar.
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the bino-
mial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows
a thorough study of the general properties and solution
of equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives,
transformation, detached coefficients, surd and imagi-
nary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, DesCartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem, Horner’s method. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Pive hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	159
II.
Analytic Geometry. This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections; their equations
and properties * discussion of the general equation of
the second degree containing two variables; different
systems of co-ordinates; transformation of co-ordinates;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane and surfaces
of revolution; transformation of co-ordinates; quadric
surfaces and supplementary propositions. Text-book,
Bailey and Woods.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.	*
Calculus, Differential. This course as also Courses
IV. and V. is designed to meet the requirements of
Engineering students. It includes a study of the methods
for the differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and
exponential, trigonometric, and inverse trigonometric
functions, successive differentiation, and differential
coefficients; treatment of implicit and compound
functions; expansion of functions; indeterminate forms;
partial differential coefficients of the first order and of
higher orders; direction of curvature; radius'of curva-
ture; envelopes; maxima and minima of functions of
one independent variable, and of several independent
variables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane
' areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book,
Osborn.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Calculus, Integral. Integration of elementary form
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalization
and by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals;
definite integrals, limits of integration; double Integra-
i6o
BUDUUTIN OF THU
tion applied to plane areas; rectification of plane curves;
quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revolution;
surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equation of
curve. This course is supplemented by numerous
exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborn.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
V.
DiffurFntiau Equations. An elementary course
for Engineering students, supplementary to the course
of integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and degree; equations of the first order, but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equa-
tions with higher orders. Numerous applications to
mechanics and physics are introduced during the course.
Text-book, Murray.
[One hour a week for one term.]
Ad vancud Work. The prescribed courses in pure
mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following
advanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every
year. The number of students required to constitute
a class in any one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal.
(6) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock.
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Advanced Calculus,
Byerly, Todhunter, Williamson, (f) Advanced Analytic
Geometry, Salmon, (g) Analytic Geometry of Three
Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (h) Quaternions,
Hardy with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
-	UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	l6l
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I.	•
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine, steam
turbines and other heat motors involving the laws of
thermodynamics of gases, saturated vapors and super-
heated steam. The applications of this preliminary
work are then, dwelt upon, and prime movers, the
injector, condenser, refrigerating machinery, boilers and
pumps are studied in detail. During the second term
a study of the different types of internal combustion
engines is made together with a general study of costs
in operating power plants. Frequent reference is made
to trade catalogues, of which an abundant supply should
be obtained by the student. Text-book, Cardullo's
Thermodynamics; References: The Steam Engine and
Turbine, Heck; Steam Engine Theory and Practice,
Ripper.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Materials of Engineering. This course, supple-
mented by shop work and laboratory work in testing
materials of construction, is designed for the purpose
of acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact. The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up, and estimates of the
cost of construction at market prices complete the work.
Text-book, Thurstoris Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
,	III.
Steam Power Plants. The preliminary work of this
162
BUEEETIN OB THE
course comprehends a brief study of the history of the
steam engine together with its development and differ-
entiation into the standard types at present on the
market. Subsequently, the elements controlling designs
for specific purposes are considered. Finally the study
of the Power Plant as a whole is taken up and the
relations between engines, turbines, pumps, condensers,
boilers, piping, fuel and auxiliaries are dwelt upon in
detail. A completely worked out plan for a specific
equipment is required of each student. The text-book
is Gebhardt’s Steam Power Plant Engineering; Refer-
ences: Steam Power Plants, Meyers; The Mechanical
Engineering of Power Plants, Hutton; Steam-Electric
Power Plants, Koester.
(Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam BoieERS. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of
parts from consideration of strains, thickness of shells,
size of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods
of connection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces
and life of boiler are some of the subjects considered.
The method of determining the efficiency of fuels,
heating surfaces, heights of chimneys, boiler setting
and materials used in connection are also discussed.
Text-book, Steam Boilers by Munro.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.	-
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry
of machinery, the determination of the paths of the
various parts of an elementary combination and the
constraining of the parts to move in these paths. The
general theory is then applied to cams and gear teeth,
the relative motion of machine parts and the kinematic
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
163
trains, belts, pulleys, speed cones, link work and other
aggregate combinations. Barr’s Kinematics of Ma-
chinery is the text-book used.
[Two hours’ recitation and two hours’ drawing
a week for one term.]
. VI.
(a)	Machine Design. This work involves a study
of the form and strength of machine parts as applied
in designing, with computation of dimensions for
fastenings, bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth
gearing, etc. The derivation of rational formulae and
the determination of empirical formulae are included
and applied in designing. The text-books used are
Unwin’s Elements of Machine Design, Low’s Handbook
for Mechanical Engineers and Reed’s Machine Design
and Drawing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Valve Gears. This includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to side valves and
the principal automatic cut-off engines. The radical
gears, such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy
are treated in the same way, and in conclusion the
student is made familiar with the various types of
Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics and like motions. The
text-book is Halsey’s Valve Gears.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIL
Gas Power Plants. A study from text-book,
reference works, current technical magazines and
catalogues of manufacturers of the adaptation of the
various types of prime, movers available as power
sources. Prom a set of specifications for a given power
plant submitted to the student, a detailed plan is
required, showing the selection and arrangement of
164
BULLETIN or THE
the power units, method of piping, arrangement of
fuel handling apparatus and other auxiliaries.
Must be preceded by Course X. and taken in con-
junction with Course -XI.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Mechanical Laboratory. The work taken up
includes a study of the methods of testing the steam
engine under varying running conditions, valve setting,
calibration of thermometers, gauges and indicator
springs, use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dyna-
mometers, Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc.
Text-book, Carpenter's Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Steam Engines and Boilers. A brief course in
the study of boilers and steam engines designed to
familiarize the student with the different types in use
and their respective merits. Only that theory is taken
up which is necessary to the working out of problems,
the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this course must provide themselves
with an abundant ‘supply of trade catalogues. Text
book, Power and Power Transmission, Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extending
over two terms, is given to a general descriptive study
of all the types of gas engines and explosive motors.
The general construction of gas, oil, vapor engines
is sttidied together with their adaptation to various uses.
Results due to change in ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid; methods of speed regu-
lation and government and the details of auxiliaries
as, pumps, carburetors, hot tubes,' batteries, spark
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	165
coils and dynamos are dwelt upon. The text-book
used is Gas, Oil and Vapor Engines by Hiscox.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the
thermodynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-
book, lectures and drawing board. The major subjects
taken up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due
to gas pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine
parts. Luke's Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Dive hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing
a week for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete work-
ing up from rough castings and forgings of a small
type of gas engine. This is part of the thesis work
for students in the Short Program and requires the
complete machining and assembling of the engine
and must be preceded by Courses X. and XI.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Eaboratory. Indicator practice, com-
mercial efficiency, governing economy, speed regulation.
Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction, car-
buretors and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed
by the student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
SHOPWORK
XIV.
(a) Woodwork. Exercises in planing, splicing,
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
(&) Application oe Carpentry to pattern making,
i66
bulletin of the
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
(c)	Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. lectures on heating
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
(d)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
(e)	Benchwork in iron, including surface chip-
ping, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
(/) Accurate Work on the lathe, planer, shaft-
ing and milling machines. Construction of machine
tools, reamers, taps, twist drills, gear wheels and com-
plete machines.
[Each section three hours a week for one term.]
Thesis. Each candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Engineering must present for graduation a thesis
of considerable magnitude which will exhibit his
knowledge of the courses he has followed. It may
embrace designing, experimental investigation or orig-
inal research, in a subject selected by the student and
approved by the professor. The major part of the
second term, Senior year, is devoted to this work, and
graduation is conditional upon the knowledge of me-
chanical engineering displayed in its preparation. '
METALLURGY
I.
Metallugry. Among the subjects studied in this
course are the following—classification of ores, sampling,
crushing, milling practice, roasting and smelting; the
various extraction processes of the following metals—
gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, are given special
attention; the production of pig iron in blast furnaces.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	167
A trip of inspection is made to smelting plants,
blast furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order
to familiarize the student with metallurgic plants in
operation.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Assaying. This course consists of a series of actual
determinations of the quantity and value of gold, silver
and lead in the various ores by the crucible and scorifica-
tion methods of the fire assay; the assaying of gold
and silver bullion; determining the strength of cyanide
working solutions; the assay of gold bearing cyanide
solutions; and wet determinations of copper and zinc.
[Bight hours a week for one term.]
III.
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assay-
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. * Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Ore Dressing. A course in which a detailed study
is pursued of the various processes of mechanically
separating and saving valuable minerals from the
valueless gangue of ores, whereby the valuable minerals
are concentrated into smaller bulk and weight by
discarding a large portion of the waste.
The principal subjects treated are: Preliminary and
final crushing by means of rock-breakers, steam and
gravity stamps with amalgamation; rolls, Chilian,
Huntington; tube and ball mills; screen sizing and
classifying; sand and slime concentrating on jigs, tables
and vanners; magnetic separation, pneumatic con-
centration, oil flotation processes; locating and con-
i68
bulletin of the
structing the mill. The course includes a trip of in-
spection to a number of the most modern concentrating
mills in the lake Superior district where the student
engages in practical work in the study of mill construc-
tion, operation and efficiency. Text-book, Richards.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
MINING ENGINEERING
I.
Mining Engineering, Principles of. This course
includes a general study of Mining operations divided
into the following subjects: Occurrence of minerals in
the earth’s crust, discovery, boring, excavation, sup-
porting excavations, exploitation, haulage, hoisting,
drainage, ventilation, lighting, access, ore dressing
and treatment. Text-book, Foster and Brough.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Mine Surveying. A study of the subject of surveying
in its special application to mines, through lectures,
plotting of problems and recitations; for students 'Who
take the summer course in the mines. The following
subjects receive particular attention—recording of
notes in underground traverses and their subsequent
plotting, a comparison of metal mine and coal mine
surveys, the methods of connecting surface with under-
ground surveys by means of both the auxiliary telescope
and plumb lines and the deputy mineral surveyor’s
methods of surveying mining claims for patent. Each
student is required to make a complete mine map from
notes of actual mine surveys. Text-book, Trumbull.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	169
MICROSCOPY
I.
Microscopy. lectures and laboratory work. Refrac-
tion and dispersion .of light and illumination. The index
of refraction in different media. Different shapes of
lenses. Spherical and chromatic aberration. The
selection and care of a good microscope. The use of
accessories for advanced work; immersion and adjust-
able objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser,
polarizer, micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-
micrography. Text-book, Gage. Given in connection
with Bacteriology.
II.
Micro-Chemistry. Laboratory work. The prepara-
tion of micro-chemical reagents and their application
in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning and
mounting tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
MUSIC
FIRST YEAR
I.
Violin. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Piorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
II.
Pianoforte. Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano School.
Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller. Sonatinas
and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn* Reinecke and
Mozart. Jugend Album and Kinderscenen by Schumann.
III.
Voice Production. Tone placing. Diaphragmatic
breathing-control, Articulation, Text-book, Shake-
170
bulletin of the
speare’s Art of Singing, Part I.; Kofler’s Art of Breath-
ing; Studies by Bassini, English songs.	'
Vocal Sight Reading. Elementary theory of Music.
Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
IV.
Organ. Rink Organ School. Eugene Thayer Studies,
Light Preludes and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR
la.
Violin. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont. Sonatas,
and pieces by Tartini, Bach, Beethoven, Mozart.
Ila.
Pianoforte. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,
Lecouppy, Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelsohn,
Schumann, Schubert.
Illa.
Voice Production. Advanced breathing exercises.
Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke of the
glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Singing,
Parts II. and III. Studies from Italian operas; Trench
and English songs.
Vocal Sight Reading. Phrasing, punctuation and
advanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IVa.
Organ. Schneider-Warren Pedal Studies. Easy so-
natas by Mendelsohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Preludes,
fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting. Canonic
Studies by Chadwick.
Va.
Harmony. Construction and use of chords. Harmon-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	171
izing from figured bass. Text-books., Goetshius Tone
Relations; Logier’s Harmony.
THIRD YEAR
lb.
Violin. Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alward, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelsohn, Dvorak.
Hb.
Pianoforte. Gradus ad Parnassum. Clementi-Tausig,
Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English and
French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Harberbier and
Henselt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven,
Weber, Mendelsohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
Illb.
Voice Production. Study of trill, mordent, grup-
petto, etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb.
Organ. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele by
Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome,
Whistling, Best, Rheinberger.
Harmony. Counterpoint. Simple two and four part
counterpart; double and florid counterpart. Canon,
fugue.
FOURTH YEAR
Ic.
Violin. Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Burch, Joachim and others.
He.
Pianoforte. Studies by Tausig and Chopin. Sonatas,
concertos and concert pieces by Schumann, Brahms,
Rubinstein, Liszt.
bulletin oe the
172
IIIc.
Organ. The greater preludes, ’fantasies and fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Builment and Saint-Saens.
IVc.
Harmony. Composition. Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical applica-
tion in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS .
Instruction is also given on the viola, flute, piccolo,
cornet, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of
playing in the University Orchestra and the University
Band.
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of muscial students open
only to those taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir
and the Glee Club are selected from the members of
this class.
PHARMACY
I.
Elements of Pharmacy-—Lectures and recitations
on the art and science of pharmacy, and demonstrations
of the various pharmaceutical processes.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Galenical Pharmacy. A laboratory course to accom-
pany Course I. This course consists of the practical
application of the pharmaceutical processes to the
manufacture of official preparations of the United States
Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and N. F. preparations.
[Five hours a week for twenty-six weeks.] .
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
173
III.
Inorganic Pharmacy. Laboratory, demonstrations
and recitations. A thorough, course in the preparation
and testing of pharmaceutical and technical chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
General Pharmacy. A systematic classification of
organic and inorganic drugs and preparations from a
pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close study of
each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Magistral Pharmacy. Includes the manifold
methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with considera-
tion of incompatiblity, posology, and the principles of
elegant pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
. (a) Pharmaceutical Chemistry. Chiefly assaying,
testing and manufacturing. Determination of melting
and boiling points, and solubilities. Some attention is
given also to toilet and commercial preparations with
a view to the invention and development of original
formulas.
. [Six hours a week for one term.]
(b) Pharmaceutical Pharmacy. Assaying and
manufacturing.
[Six hours a week for one term.]	•
VII.
General Pharmacy. Pharmaceutical analysis and
assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectro-
scopic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of
manufacture.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
174
BULLETIN OB THE
VIII.
.Materia Medica. This work embraces a detailed
consideration of botanical drugs, their pharmaceutical
definition and description, constituents, habitat, thera-
peutic action, use, dose and antidote. Attention is
given also to mineral drugs and those of animal origin.
They are studied individually at first, then in classes
or groups. The grouping is so arranged as to make the
subject comparatively easy for the student.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
Pharmaceutical Arithmetic. This work includes
a study of weights and measures, percentage, relation-
ship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas, alliga-
tion and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Pharmacognosy. The indentification of preparations
and crude drugs by their physical properties with
special reference to quality and detection of adultera-
tion. Attention is also given to the methods of prevent-
ing loss by improper storage or by the ravages of insects.
Important drugs are studied under the microscope in
cross section and in powder form.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XI.
Commercial Pharmacy. A brief course in business
method, store-management, banking, accounting, and
everything connected with the commercial side of
pharmacy. Likewise a number of lectures on Phar-
maceutical Jurisprudence and Commercial Law.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	175
PHILOSOPHY
I.
(a)	Introduction to Philosophy. The History of
Greek Philosophy will serve as an introduction to the
study of Philosophy. The teachings of St. Augustine
and St. Thomas will likewise be briefly presented.
[Four hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Physiological Psychology. This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis
of consciousness. Experimental and Descriptive Psy-
chology. The primary laws of consciousness; psycho-
physical methods and results.
(c)	Rational Psychology. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul.
[Courses a, b, and c are consecutive.
[Four hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
(d)	Laboratory Exercises. Experiments will be
conducted with special reference to their value as aids
to introspection. Sanford's Manual of Experimental
Psychology, Titchener's Experimental Psychology, Vol. I.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Elements oe Epistemology.* A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the teach-
ings of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley, Hume,
Kant and Spencer.
(b)	Logic. Turner's Lessons in Logic.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(c)	Ethics. The theory of morals, with special
reference . to practical problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
* This course is intended to be introductory to Logic and
General Metaphysics and will be given at the beginning of the
year.
176
BULLETIN or THE
III.
(a)	General Metaphysics. Transcendental con-
cepts: their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Tour hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(6)	Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of the
natural science in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[Tour hours a week for four weeks.]
(c)	Theodicy. The existence of God; His attributes;
His presence in the universe.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Scholastic and Modern Philosophy. The course
is intended to acquaint the student with the principal
systems and philosophers of the Medieval and Modern
periods. It will likewise serve as a review of the. subjects
treated in the general course of Philosophy. Philo-
sophic Movements of the present day and writers of
note in present philosophic thought will be discussed.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Philosophy, Brief Course. A general course
designed to acquaint the student with the important
problems of philosophy. It is hoped sufficient interest
will be aroused in the student in this abridged pre-
sentation to enable him to continue, of his own accord,
an intelligent study of this important subject. It is
required of engineering students.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
Student Discussions. Trom time to time through-
out the year students will be required to read and
discuss papers on various subjects in the field of philo-
sophic inquiry.
There is likewise a regular course in Scholastic Philos-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
177
ophy given in Isatin. Students are free to elect the course
in English or Latin.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work in
the department of philosophy, leading to the degree
of Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students
who have pursued the course described above. Can-
didates who have made undergraduate studies else-
where must give evidence of ability to begin specializing
at once. In the first and second years, research work
will be conducted in the seminar and the psychological
laboratory. In the first year, students will have the
benefit of frequent consultation with the professors.
PHYSICS
I.
(a)	Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and
magnetism are presented. The course is intended to
meet the needs of those who desire a general knowledge
of the subjects, as well as to lay the foundations for
advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
178
BULLETIN OE THE
experiments are kept by each student and- form the
basis for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
it.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given
in Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to
physical phenomena. Special attention is paid to
accuracy in the mathematical work and in the state-
ments of the principles involved. Lectures and recita- -
tions. Text-bo ok, Crewe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
(a)	Laboratory. The application of mathematics
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
time. Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity
and magnetism. The work is done in the laboratory
and the student is taught to depend on his own resources
and to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	Laboratory. For Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering students. The application of mathematics
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
time. Work in mechanics, light and sound. The work
is done in the laboratory and the student is taught
to depend on his own resources and to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Students in Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering will have a special set of
experiments on electricity, comprising special advanced
work in heat, magnetism, general electricity, galvan-
ometry, electrical quantity, induction, the magnetic
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	179
properties of iron. Accuracy in observation and in
the calculation and recording of the results is required.
This course must be preceded by Courses II. and III.
(a)	Electrical Measurements. Laboratory practice
with galvanometers, voltmeters, ammeters and watt-
meters, resistance work, the relation or equivalence
between electric energy and heat, capacity and induc-
tance, insulation tests.
(b)	Calorimetry. Accurate work in laboratory, using
methods of mixtures, bomb and other calorimeters in
measuring the calorific values of gaseous and solid fuels,
quantitative measurements of radiation and conduction
of heat as applied to pipe coverings, etc.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
V.
Meteorology. A government station was installed
at the University by the United States Weather Bureau
in March, 1912. An elementary course in meterology
is offered to students.	4
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Research Work. Courses are offered in Theory
of Heat, Theory of Electricity and Magnetism, Optics,
the Constitution of Matter, Conduction of Electricity
by Gases, Theory of Sound, Hertzian Waves. Calculus
is required to take up any of these topics.
[Two to five hours a week for one term.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a) This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton's Text-book of
iSo	bulletin or the
Human Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstra-
tions required.
(d) Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c)	A limited number of microscopical preparations
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.
(d)	During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Four recitations and one laboratory period
for one term.]
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (d) and may select either (6) or (c).
II.
(a)	This course comprises a complete study of human
physiology such as is required of students of medicine.
The lectures, recitations and demonstrations are based
upon Kirk's Handbook of Physiology and Hall's Text-
book of Physiology. The student will have free access
to a copy of The American Text-book of Physiology
for special reference.
(b)	Laboratory work in experimental physiology. '
The manual used is Hall's Experimental Physiology,
but the student will have free access to a number of
other similar works.
[Four recitation hours and two laboratory
periods for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	l8l
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
I.
The Edements of Economics. A general survey of
the subject based upon the study and discussion of
Seager’s Introduction to Economics. The first part of
this course deals with the fundamental principles of
the abstract theory of economics. The second portion
of the work has to do with the application and exem-
plification of these principles. In this connection atten-
tion is paid to the subject of money, credit and banking,
the labor movement, monopolies, the railroad problem,
socialism, taxation, and plans of economic reform.
Supplementary readings and reports on current dis-
cussions of these questions form an important part
of the work in this course.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Industrial History and the History of
Economic Thought. The work in this course is based
on Haney’s History of Economic Thought. After a
resume of the economic ideas of ancient Greece and
Rome and the medieval period the work is divided
into three sections; the first dealing with the frag-
mentary notions preceding Adam Smith and including
the latter’s work and influence; the second period
deals with the classical school of economists, particular
attention being paid to the theories of Malthus, Mill
and Ricardo—the dependance of some of the modern
movements on their theories is also shown; the third
has to do with the latter day economists. Political
Science I. is a prerequisite for Course II.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
4
182
bueeetin of the
HI.
Money, Credit and Banking. This course first
outlines the historical aspect of money and of banking
and then takes up the problems touching on these
subjects. Special attention is paid to the monetary
experiences of the United States and the present reforms
under consideration. The text-book used is Money
and Banking, White.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Public Finance. This course begins with a brief
history of the different financial systems. The different
kinds of government expenditure are discussed, also
the sources of government income. The different
methods of taxation and the proposed reforms in these
methods are studied. Special attention is paid to
problems in the United States. The text-book used is
Introduction to Public Finance by C. C. Plehn.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
V.	*
Distribution. Lectures, readings and discussions
on the questions of wages, rent, interest and profits,
and the problems resulting from present notions in
regard to these matters. The text-book used is The
Distribution of Wealth by Carver, supplemented by
readings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
The Elements of Economics. A short course for
advanced students. Text, Economics, Briefer Course
by Seager.
* Not given in 1913-14.
ft
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
183
POLITICS
VII.
The Elements of Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics, Lilly.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
American Government and Politics. Text, Amer-
ican Government and Politics, Beard.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Jurisprudence. A course covering (a) the outlines
of the Science of Law. (6) The elements of International
Law. (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman and
Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and examinations on
required texts.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
SOCIOLOGY
The Elements of Sociology. Text, Sociology and
Modern Social Problems, Ellwood.
■ A brief survey of elementary principles. The family
in its sociological aspects, its origin, forms, historical
development and the two great problems, divorce and
race suicide. The Negro Problem, Crime, Socialism in
the Light of Sociology.
[Eour hours a week for one term.]
XI*
Labor Problems and Socialism. Woman and Child
Labor, Immigration, The Sweating System, Poverty
and Unemployment are among the problems studied.
Labor Unionism, Strikes and Arbitration, Co-opera-
*?Not?given inT9i3-i4.
184
BUDUETIN OF THE
tion, Socialism, Syndicalism and Labor Legislation are
among the remedial movements studied.
Text, Labor Problems, Adams and Summer.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
Graduate Work in Politic ad Economy. Advanced
courses in economics, politics and sociology are pro-
vided for graduate students who wish to receive the
degree of Master or Doctor.
POLISH
I.
Pomsh Language and Literature. Grammar
(Matecki’s Part I.) Etymology. Exercises in spelling
and reading.
Grammar, Part II. Syntax. Exercises in Com-
position. Short essays.
II.
Rhetoric. (Galle’s Text-book). Study of Essays in
Models. (Krasnowilski’s Handbook).
III.
Literature. The History of Polish Literature. Part
I. From the beginning to the era of Adam Mickiewicz.
(Handbook: Tarnowski-Prochnicki).
IV.
Literature. The History of Polish Literature. Part
II. From Adam Mickiewicz to the present time. (Hand-
book: Tarnoivski-Prochnicki). Essays.
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
185
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal,
special attention will be paid to philology.
FRENCH
I.	’
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the
inflection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Reading of three of the following
works: La Tache de Petit Pierre, Mariet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheur euse, Guerber;
Sans Famille, Malot; Readings from French History,
Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Dictations and conversations on
practical topics, and careful reading of five of the
following works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
• Choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’Argent, Dumas; Standard
French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study of this' course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of French literature; besides a translation and
criticism of the best writers, such as; Causeries du
. Lundi, Ste., Bewve; On Rend VArgent, Coppee; Her-
nani, Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine;
186
BULLETIN OB THB
L’ Avar e, Molibre; Mlle, de la Seiglibre, Sandeau; Les
Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedition
de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie,
Montalembert; Historic de la Litterature Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the same
every year.
SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero,
Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego,
and Irate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
*	Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries, with composition and the history
of the literature of the period.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries;
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the
literature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Marly Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the fifteenth century.
ITALIAN
A two years’ course. The chief work of the courses
is a critical study of Dante's Divina Commedia. Read-
ing from Tasso, Ariosto’s Satires and Manzoni.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	187
PORTUGUESE
I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, Wall. Readings:
Perfil do marquez de Pombal, Camillo Castello Branco;
Novelhas Historicas, Pinheiro Chagas; Lendas e Nar- ■
rativas, Herculano; Campo de flores, Joao de Deus.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Sermoes, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Camoes.
History of Portuguese literature.
OLD FRENCH
Special attention will be paid to the laws under-
lying the formation of the French language from the
popular Latin. For this purpose a work like Bracket's
Grammaire Historique will be studied. It is under
this point of view that the old French authors will
be read, especially La Chanson de Roland.
Language and literature, with readings from the
works of the Troubadours.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
ZOOLOGY
I.
This course comprises:
(a)	Lectures, recitations and demonstractions based
upon Hegner's College Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon
Parker's Elementary • Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined
in Pratt's Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker's Biology.
188	BULLETIN OB THB
(d)	Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order
of mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch's Ele-
mentary Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for
first term; three recitation hours and three
laboratory periods for the second term.]
II.
This course comprises:
(a)	Recitations, lectures and demonstrations based
upon Hert'wig’s Manual of Zoology.
(&)	Laboratory work upon some Invertebrate in
order to complete and supplement the work under
(c) in Course I.
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one or two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrate, viz.: fish,
frogs, newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used
is Pratt's Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with refer-
ence to the cat as outlined in Davison's Mammalian
Anatomy.
(e)	An outline of comparative Bmbryology of ani-
mals. Text-book, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
&
190	BULLETIN OF THE
INSTRUCTORS IN THE PREPARATORY
SCHOOL
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. PATRICK CARROLL, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. JULIUS A. NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Science:
Rev. WALTER J. LAVIN, C. S. C.,
Latin.
Rev. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
%
REV. JOHN FARLEY, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
Rev. CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, C. S. C.,
English.
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
UNIVERSITY or NOTRE dame	i 91
REv. GEORGE McNAMARA, C. S. C.,
English and Mathematics.	’
Rrv. THOMAS BURKE, C. S. C.,
English.
Rrv. FRANCIS MAHER, C. S. C.,
English.
rev. mieceslaus szalewski, c. s. c.,
Polish.
Rev. HUGH McCAULEY, C. S. C.,
History and Latin.
Rev. PAUL MILLER, C. S. C„
Latin.
Rev. ERNEST DAVIS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. FRANCISCO MARIN, O. P.
Spanish.
Bro. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
«l
Bro. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography, Typewriting.
CHARLES PETERSEN, A. M.,
German.'
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Drawing.
192
bulletin of the
JAMBS HINES, Ph. B.,
History and Mathematics.
CHARLEMAGNE KOEHLER, A. M.,
Elocution.
ERANCIS A. DERRICK, A. B.,
Greek and Latin.
JESSE E. VERA, M. E.,
Mathematics.
THOMAS STEINER, C. E.,
Mathematics.
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S.,
Drawing and Science.
EDWARD CLEARY, Litt. B.,
Civics and Commercial Law.
CARL SAUTER,
Piano.
HENRY KUHLE, Ph. B.,
German.
JAMES RIDDLE, A. M.,
Mathematics.
ARTHUR HUGHES, Ph. B.,
English.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	193
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Pre-
paratory School under the same general government
as the Colleges, but having its own special corps of
instructors. The schedules of studies are arranged to
meet the need of thorough preparation for collegiate
work, and embrace courses which, while giving as wide
an education as can be obtained in the very best High
Schools, prepare students directly for the group of
studies they may select when entering the Freshman
year. Four different programs of instruction are offered
to students, each containing such special courses as
directly meet the needs of the eighteen college groups,
while all embrace common subjects which are indis-
pensably necessary in acquiring a fairly liberal education.
The period of instruction covers four years.
The equipment and facilities for study in the Pre-
paratory School are most complete. The laboratories
are extensive and fully supplied with the latest im-
proved appliances. The classes pursuing any subject
are divided into sections, each containing a limited
number of students. The sections are purposely limited
in order that each student may receive close attention
from the instructor in every recitation and laboratory
period.
Examinations for admission are held at the opening
of the School in September and embrace the subjects
completed in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pages 35, 36 and 37. The following fees are
special to the Preparatory School:
LABORATORY FEES
Science C. & D.—Elementary Botany and Zoology, each $ 2.50
Science E.—Elementary Chemistry.. ............. 5.00
Science F.—^Elementary Physics................  5.00
7
194
BULLETIN OB THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE DEPART-
MENT OF CLASSICS IN THE COLLEGE
OF ARTS AND LETTERS
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	■	5	C	Civil Governin’ t	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
Greek	5	A	Greek	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	5	B	History .	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
Greek	5	B	Greek	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	c-
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
Science	5	E or F	Science .	5	E or F
French or			French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
195
Studies Preparatory for the Departments of Letters,
History and Economics, and Journalism in
the College of Arts and Letters
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs- a Wk.	Course
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
French or			French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	5	B	History	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
French or			French or		
German	5	B	German	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
French or			French or		
German	4	C	German	4	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
Science	5	E or F	Science	5	Eor F
Elective	5		Elective	5	
196
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGE OF
SCIENCE
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t’	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
History	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	5	A	History	5	A
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
Drawing	5	A	Drawing	5	B
Mathematics	5	F	Elective	5	
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	197
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGES OF
ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English ~	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
* German	5	A	German	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
History	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German	5	B	German	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C 5
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
German	5	C	German	5	C «
History	5	A	History	5	A ■
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	E	Mathematics	5	F
Drawing	5	A	Drawing	5	B
Science	5	F	Science	5	F
Elective	5		Elective	5	
^Frenchor Spanish may be substituted for German.
198
BULLETIN of the
PREPARATORY DEPARTMENT
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
This is a four year course—Moral, Dogma, liturgy, •
Church History. Portions of the Scriptures are given
each year.
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended
to give the student some knowledge of the general
principles of government and of the American Con-
stitution. The subject begins by defining government;
then is considered the object and necessity of govern-
ment; origin of civil society; the principle of suffrage;
different forms of government defined and compared;
theories of representation. These topics necessarily
are treated briefly, as the principal part of the course
consists of a study of the Colonial government, the
Articles of Confederation and their defects, the for-
mation of the Constitution and its adoption. The
study further comprises a critical analysis of each
article and section of the American Constitution, thus
enabling the student to acquire a clear conception
of the division of powers of the National Government
and the duties and responsibilities of each department.
Text-book, Government by State and Nation, James
and Sanford.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
DRAWING
A.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the hand and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	199
the eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects
of various forms.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Courses in Lettering and Geometrical Drawing in
pencil and in pen and ink, preparatory to Drawing
I. in the Engineering Programs. A sufficient number
of plates must be made by each student to prove his
fitness for Drawing I.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH
(a)	Review of Grammar. General Rhetoric. Daily
exercises in correct English, and weekly exercises in
prose composition.
(b)	Elements of Versification. Verse-writing and
memory work in Poetry.
(c)	Readings: Irving’s Sketch Book; Stevenson’s
Treasure Island; Longfellow’s Evangeline; Cooper’s
Last of the Mohicans; Poe’s Tales; Hawthorne’s Great
Stone Face, The Birthmark and other stories; Palgrave’s
Golden Treasury; Hale’s The Man Without a Country,
Aesop’s Fables; the Merchant of Venice, fulius Caesar.
(Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
(a)	Special Rhetoric. American Literature: ex-
ercises in Correct English and theme work in the Prose
Forms.
(b)	The Verse Forms. Theory, practice and memory
work.
(c)	Readings: Blackmore’s Lorna Doone; Poe’s
Poems; Lamb’s Essays of Elia; Scott’s Ivanhoe, The
Lady of the Lake; Coleridge’s The Ancient Mariner;
200
BOUDIN OF THF
George Eliot’s Silas Marner; Longfellow’s The Court-
ship of Miles Standish; Macbeth, As You Like It.
[Live hours a week for two terms.]
C.
(a)	History of English Literature. Written work
in prose and verse.
(b)	Memory work in poetry and prose.
(c)	Readings: Tennyson’s Gareth and Lynette, Lan-
celot and Elaine, The Passing of Arthur; Washing-
ton’s Farewell Address; Webster’s First Bunker Hill
Oration; Carlyle’s Essay on Burns; Chaucer’s Prologue;
Bacon’s Essays; Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield;
Thackeray’s Henry Esmond; King Lear, The Tempest.
[Eive hours a week for two terms.]
(a) Review of Grammar and Rhetoric. Special
work in the literary types. Written work in prose
and verse.
(&) Memory work in poetry and prose.
(c) Readings: Tennyson’s Idylls of the King; Gate’s
Selections from Neman; Newman’s, The Dream of
Gerontius; Hamlet; A Midsummer Night’s Dream; other
selections illustrative of the text-work given.
[Eive hours a week for two terms.]
FRENCH
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the in-
flection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and the common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
201
idiomatic phrases. Frazer and Squair’s Grammar.
Reading three of the following: La Tache du Petit
Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La
Main Malheureuse, Guerbert; Sans Famille, Malot;
Super's Readings from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Frazer and Squair’s Grammar.
Dictations and conversations are added on practical
topics and careful translation made of five of the fol-
lowing works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oublies de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’Argent, Dumas; Stand-
ard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of French literature. Besides a reading and
criticism of the best writers, such as: Causeries du
Lundi, Ste. Benue; On Rend VArgent, Coppee; Hemani,
Hugo; Meditations, Lamar tine; Athalie, Racine; L’Aware,
Moliere; Mlle, de la Segliere, Sandeau; Les Origines,
de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedition de
Bonaparte en Egypte; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie, Mon-
talembert; Historic de la Litter ature Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
202
bulletin OP THE
GREEK
A.
First Greek Book. White.
Epitome op the New Testament, Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Etymology. Hadley and Allen.
Xenophon. Anabasis, Books I. and II. Harper and
Wallace.
Second Greek Exercise Book. Heard.
Epitome op the New Testament, continued. Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]	.
C.
Grammar. Syntax. Hadley and Allen.
Xenophon. Anabasis, Books III. and IV. Harper
and Wallace.
Second Greek Exercise Book, completed. Heard.
Epitome op the New Testament, completed. Stoffel.
Homer, Iliad, Books I.-VI. Seymour.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
■	GERMAN
A.
Grammar, Thomas. Reading of simple prose, plays,
‘poems; translation of English exercises into German.
Reading of short stories and selections from more
difficult prose.	•
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B. '
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	20 3
C.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems,
and prose writings. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.'
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
Ancient History. Myers' Ancient History. The
Eastern Nations. The History of Greece and of the
Bmpire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The
Bstablishment of the Bmpire, and the rise of Christianity.
The Roman-German, or Transition Age.
[Bive hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Medievae History and Modern History. Text-
book, Myers. The Barbarians and their Kingdoms.
Mohammedanism and the Saracen Caliphs. The Holy
Roman Bmpire. The Great Schism and the rise of
the Nations of Modern Bur ope. The Renaissance.
The Age of Discovery. The Protestant Reformation.
The Power of Spain and Germany. The Age of Louis
XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish and Austrian
Successions. The’ Bmpire of Bngland. The American
Revolution. The Brench Revolution and the Wars of
Napoleon. The Revolutions and Spirit of Nationality.
The Bormation of Germany and Italy.
[Bive hours a week for two terms.]
C.
American History. A brief outline of the more
important periods dealing with the beginning, growth
and final formation of the republic; the principal
204
BULLETIN OF THE
causes leading to this formation; essential topics in
the history of the country.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
LATIN
A.
First Year Latin, Collar and Daniel.
Selections from the Viri Romae. Rolfe.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Etymology. Bennett.
Caesar. Gallic War, Books I.-IV. Greenough.
Nepos. Selected Lives. Roberts. [Blective.]
Latin Composition (Part I.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett'.
Cicero. Orations against Catiline. Kelsey.
Ontd. Selections. Kelsey.
Sallust. Cataline, Nall. [Elective.]
Latin Composition (Part II.). D'Ooge.
. [Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar. Review. Bennett.
Cicero. Selected Orations and Letters. Kelsey.
VERGIL. Aeneid, Books I.-VI., Frieze.
Latin Composition (Part III.). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
MATHEMATICS
A.
Algebra. This course for beginners in Algebra
includes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
205
dwelt upon in particular are factoring, highest common
factor and least common multiple, which are afterward
applied in their relation to Fractions and the reduction
of Complex Fractions. In as far as possible, concrete
examples of their applications to kindred scientific
subjects are applied by the teacher. Text-book, Went-
worth's School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Aegebra. In this course the study of equations
is begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Fractional equations, systems of simultaneous
equations, involutions, radicals and exponents com-
plete the course, which is supplemented whenever
possible with problems of practical application. Text-
book, Wentworth’s School Algebra. •
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Aegebra. This course begins with quadratic equa-
tions, pure and unaffected, followed by systems of
simultaneous quadratic equations and those forms
of radical equations of higher degree which may be
solved by quadratic methods. Ratio and proportion,
indeterminate equations, surds, imaginaries, inequal-
ities, the progressions and the binomial theorem finish
the work in this course. As in the preceding courses,
special stress is placed upon the application of the
theory to such examples as will show its application
to elementary scientific subjects. Text-book, Went-
worth’s College Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Geometry. This subject is completed as far as
the end of plane geometry and includes a study of the
206
BULLETIN OF THE
theorems with proofs of exercises and original propo-
sitions. The habit of independent thinking is cul-
tivated to some extent by the solution of special problems
of a concrete nature intended to exhibit the relation
of the process studied to practical examples. Text-
book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Geometry. The study of solid geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that
of the preceding course. Planes, solid angles, poly-
hedrons, the cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied
in detail and the solution of original exercises and
propositions of application is made a feature of the
course. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
Trigonometry. A half year is given to this subject
which includes both plane and spherical trigonometry.
The work done is the equivalent of that in most of
the elementary text-books. Special attention is given
to goniometry on account of its application to calculus,
and examples of a concrete nature are abundantly
supplied. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
SCIENCE
A.
Physical Geography. An introductory and ele-
mentary study of the earth and its environments. The
student will be led into a closer sympathy with the
world about him. The various types of plant and
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	20 7
animal life, together with topographical and climatic
conditions will be considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
Physiology. Lectures, recitations and demonstra-
tions with the stereopticon. The study of the human
skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of the
bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene of
muscles. The" digestive, circulatory and excretory
systems demonstrated by models and charts. The
anatomy and structure of the nervous system and
simple experiments on the same. Text-book, Martin's
Human Body.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
Botany. This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower
and seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant
life and their classification is also given. Text-book,
Bastin's Elements of Botany.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
Zoology. This course includes an introduction to
the subject with studies of representative forms and
their classification in the different groups of the animal
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
(a)	Chemistry. An introductory course of experi-
mental lectures on familiar subjects such as water, the
air and its constituents, common salt, etc., leading up
to discussions of the more important elements and their
208
BUU/ETIN OS' TH$
properties, and the fundamental laws and phenomena
of chemistry. Text-book, Maguire's Elements of
Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	Experimental Chemistry. A laboratory course
to accompany Course (a). A series of exercises to be
performed by each student, and having as their main
object the cultivation of the student’s powers of obser-
vation and faculty of inductive reasoning. These
exercises comprise a study of the principal metallic
elements, including their preparation, properties and
more familiar compounds. The directions for each ex-
periment are made as brief as possible; the observation
of facts and the drawings of correct conclusions there-
from being left, so far as the nature of the experiment
will permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
(a)	Physics. Introduction in elementary physics
is given by lectures and recitations in which the general
laws of mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity
and magnetism are presented. The course is intended
to meet the needs of those who desire a general knowl-
edge of the subject, as well as to lay the- foundation
for advanced work. Particular attention is paid to
the correct statement of principles so that in his ad-
vanced work the student will have nothing to unlearn
or relearn. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(6)	Laboratory Work of this course consists of
a series of 60 experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
209
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
THE COMMERCIAL HIGH SCHOOL
The Commercial School is designed to fuse with the
ordinary High School or preparatory program of studies,
a special preparation for the processes of modern com-
mercial life. Accordingly, the commercial program
consists of a selection of the more important subjects
in the High School curriculum to which are added the
classes and experimental facilities found in a completed
and up-to-date commercial college.
Owing to conditions specially favorable to study,
Notre Dame claims to give the students of this school
a more complete business training than can be obtained
in any purely commercial college. The authorities
require that students taking this program shall have
completed two years of a regular High School or its
equivalent. Special arrangements, however, will be
made for young men who have no High School training,
but who may have had practical business or office
experience. Such students may follow the courses of
this program of studies but will not be considered can-
didates for degrees. A certificate stating the field
covered by their studies will, however, be presented
to them. Graduates of High Schools or equivalent
preparatory schools will ordinarily be able to complete
the work of this program in one year.
210
bulletin of the
COMMERCIAL PROGRAM*
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	C	Civil Governin’t’	5	A
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	B
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
History	5	B	History	5	B
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Bookkeeping	5	A	Bookkeeping	5	A
Phonography	5	A	Phonography	5	A
Arithmetic	5	A	Arithmetic	5	B
Typewriting	5	A	Typewriting	5	A
Penmanship	2		Penmanship	2	
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Bookkeeping	5	B	Bookkeeping	8	C
Phonography	5	B	Phonography	5	B
Com. Law	5	A	Commerce	5	A
Typewriting	3	B	Typewriting	3	A
*First and second year or equivalent required for entrance
on commercial work.
Students who do not take Phonography will continue their
mathematics or language in the third year and take up
Physics in the fourth year.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
211
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
ARITHMETIC
A.	Percentage; ratio and proportion, as far as
involution and evolution.
B.	PERCENTAGE; ratio and proportion (reviewed);
involution and evolution; arithmetical and geometrical
series; higher percentage; mensuration; arithmetical
analysis.
BOOKKEEPING
A.	Preparatory instruction and definitions; in-
itiatory sets of Double Entry; retailing by Double
Entry; special practice in writing business papers
and business forms. Single Entry; changing Single
to Double Entry.
B.	Retailing; wholesaling; shipping and com-
mission; jobbing; manufacturing; instalment and
state agencies; joint stock companies; banking.
C.	Business Practice and Office Work. Intro-
ducing Loose Leaf Accounting, Card Ledger Account-
ing, Loose Leaf and Sales Book, and the Voucher System
of Bookkeeping and Business English.
COMMERCIAL LAW
A. Text-book, Huff cut's Elements of Business Laws.
HISTORY OF COMMERCE
A.	Text and assigned topics.
PENMANSHIP
PHONOGRAPHY
A. Isaac Pitman’s Short Course in Phonography.
B.	Speed Class.
212
BUBLFTIN OF THE
TYPEWRITING
A.	The Van Sant System of Touch Typewriting.
B.	SpEEd Ceass. Mimeograph and Hektograph work.
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined
above are equivalent to those of a High School. There
is also a Junior Preparatory Department in which
are taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—
the students having every opportunity for preparing
themselves as rapidly as possible for High School work.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	213
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
For the care and training of boys under the age
of thirteen years, there has been established a primary
school to which the most scrupulous attention has
always been paid by the authorities of the Univer-
sity—it is known as St. Edward’s Hall.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Eatin, French, German and Algebra. Vocal Music and
Drawing involve no extra charge. The pupils of this
department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE
The following is the order of the day: Rising at
6:30 a. m., toilet, etc., seven, breakfast, after which
there is a short time given to exercise on the campus;
eight, study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes
and study; a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner,
followed by recreation; half-past one, classes and study;
three, recreation and luncheon; half-past four, classes
and study; a quarter to six, toilet; six, supper and
recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it
may be seen that while the Minims devote almost
seven hours a day to study, they are never more than
two hours in succession in the class-room. The rec-
reation and exercise in the fresh air after each period
of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to
return to their classes refreshed and ready to work.
The Minims are always under supervision during
the hours of recreation as well as in the class-room
214	BU^^TIN OiTtHB
and the study-hall. The presence, however, of the
prefect is far from being a restraint on the amusement
of the boys; for while it is the duty of the prefects
to insist that their young charges shall always keep
within the limits of the strictest propriety, they at
the same time take part in all sports, organize games,
and do everything in their power to foster the love
for exercise. The playground is a broad, level, eight-
acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary
gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make good use
of them can be seen from their healthy, happy
appearance, which invariably attracts the notice of
visitors. Connected with the playground is a brick
play-hall, one-hundred and sixty feet long and heated
by steam. In this hall the boys play on rainy or cold
weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and
mend the clothing; see to all the needs and to the
comfort and convenience of the Minims. Baths are
taken every few days. Underclothing is changed
regularly. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly
dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the season.
-	SOCIETIES
There are two societies in the Minim Department,
that of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which
has for its object to supply servers for the Chapel
services, and the Sorin Association, which has been
established with a view to give the pupils a start, as
early as possible, in elocution. The society is presided
over by one of the professors, who finds it a pleasant
duty to draw out the talent of these interesting young
orators. Meetings are held once a week, after school
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well
*
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME
215
as of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only
the best behaved and more advanced in studies are
admitted to membership. To encourage this young
literary society, a gold medal for elocution is annually
awarded at Commencement to the most deserving
member.
GENERAL REMARKS
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected
is much milder than that which is suited to members
more advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had
to punishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern
by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing to the
boys’ sense of honor.
There are gold medals awarded at the end of two
full years to those whose deportment has been un-
exceptionable during that period. As this fact is made
known to the Minim immediately after his enitrance, he
generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view
to receiving an Honor. The greatest care is taken to
form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Bvery effort
is made to foster respect and affection for parents, to
whom they are expected to write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed by the
Minims is their complete separation from the older
students. A commodious building, known as St.
Bdward’s Hall, affording ample accommodations for
over one hundred pupils, is devoted to their use. It is
four stories in height, one-hundred and fifty feet long,
and forty-five feet wide, heated by steam, supplied
throughout with electric light, and provided with hot
and cold water. The ceiling in the study-hall, class-
rooms and sleeping apartments is fifteen feet high. The
2l6
bulletin of the
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant
light and ventilation. The study-hall commands a
charming view from each end of its eleven large windows.
It is tastefully decorated with statuary, pictures, plants,
etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims derive from
studying in this bright, cheerful hall, their tastes are
cultured by coming into contact with objects so refining.
Fronting the building is a handsome park, which,
with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not
a little to the beauty of St. Bdward’s Hall, as well
as to the happiness of its pupils.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy
parents and others who frequently write for more
detailed information, will show that, while the Minims
have every advantage to aid them in acquiring a founda-
tion for future study, they have a home, where they
enjoy the same ease and freedom that they would
enjoy under the care of their mothers. For further
. information regarding the School for Minims apply for
a special catalogue.
EXPENSES
For Students under Thirteen Years of Age.
Matriculation Fee (first year only)................$ 10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bedding,
etc., per school year........................ 250.00
Payable in advance as follows:
First Payment,—On Entrance in September.
Matriculation....................................... 10.00
Board and Tuition.................................. 150.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account............... 5.00
Gymnasium...............................-............ 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course	Ticket.................... 1.00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second Payment.—On January 15.
Balance on Board and Tuition...............$100.00
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
217
The charge for lessons on piano, violin, guitar or
mandolin, and the use of the instrument, is fixed at $50. *
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Bach pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits
of underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings,, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pair of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits
of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap,
and a hand mirror. This direction concerning clothing
is a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above
supplies can be procured through the Students’ Office
at the University.
218
BULLETIN OF THE
MILITARY
During the summer vacation of 1910 the Secretary
of War appointed a retired officer of the United States
Army, Professor of Military Science and Tactics in
the University of Notre Dame.
The Military drill has for some years been compul-
sory in St. Kdward’s Hall and in Carroll Hall. In the
other departments this exercise has been altogether
voluntary. It proved popular with the older students;
its value was instantly recognized and the success that
attended the work was extremely gratifying.
Beginning with 1912-13 it has been made compulsory
three hours a week for all students except Seniors and
Juniors in the college courses. Other students seeking
exemption from the drill must make application to the
President. It is accredited as a class, and absence
from it is regarded as absence from class, involving
the usual demerits and other penalties.
The cost of a uniform with military negligee shirt
for warm weather is about fifteen dollars. Other military
equipment is furnished by the United States Government
The officers of the battalion for the past year 1912—13
, were as follows:
Captain R. R. Stogsdall, U. S. A., Retired,
Professor of Military Science and Tactics.
Color Sergeant George A. Campbell, U.S.A., Retired,
Assistant Military Instructor.
REGIMENTAL " STAFF
Captain and Adjutant	Dan Shouvlin
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
219
BATTALION STAFF
First Battalion
Cadet Captain	John A. Sawkins
Lieutenant	J. B. Jones, Battalion Adjutant
Seeond Battalion
Cadet Captain	Charles W. Lahey
Lieutenant William Casey, Battalion Adjutant
NON-COMMISSIONED STAFF
Color Sergeant	Md ward B. Barrett
Drum Major	Bred R. Mills
COMPANY ORGANIZATION
Company
A
Captain
Birst Lieutenant
Second Lieutenant
Birst Sergeant
Quarter Master Sergeant
Company
Captain
Birst Lieutenant
Second Lieutenant
Birst Sergeant	-
Quarter Master Sergeant
Company
Captain
Birst Lieutenant
Second Lieutenant
Birst Sergeant
Quarter Master Sergeant
Company
Captain
Birst Lieutenant
Birst Sergeant
Quarter Master Sergeant
Clarence J. Derrick
Arthur J. Hayes
I
Bdward Gushurst
William Brawley
Brnest P. Lajoie
B
Bred M. Gilbough
- Bred W. Gushurst
Henry J. Brawley
Lawrence B. McDonald
Harry B. Murray
C
Thomas Shaughnessy
William Stack
John Denny
Leon Gendron
John O’Donahue
D
Joseph Walsh
Victor Hillman
Bernard J. McQuade
Brancis H. McCourt
o
220
BULLETIN OF THE
Company
Captain
First Lieutenant
Second Lieutenant
First Sergeant
Quarter Master Sergeant
Company
Captain
First' Lieutenant
Second LiEutemant
First Sergeant
Quarter Master Sergeant
Company
Captain
First Lieutenant
Second Lieutenant
First Sergeant
Quarter Master Sergeant
E
Frank W. O’Reilly
William Casey
Harry Baujan
William Canty
Claude J. Farry
F
Bernard Durch
Martin B. Walters
Charles Somers
James S. Devlin
Jesse Dew
G
Charles W. Lahey
James B. Jones
Manuel Lequerica
Frank C. Kiley
Bverett A. Blackman
Possums (C. H.)
Captain	Amos K. Clay
First Lieutenant	George Lucas
First Sergeant	Austin A. McNichols
Quarter Master Sergeant Bdward W. McCarrem

*
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	221
LIST OF STUDENTS
Matriculated During the Scholastic Year 1912-1913.
Abshire, Dawson A...........
Adkins, Francis Luce.......
Adolphus, B.................
Adrianson, Joseph Willebrord. .
Albertson, George William. . .
Aldrete, Antonio............
Aldrete, George.............
Allen, Henry Harding........
Amondarain, Ignacio Antonio
Anchondo, Manuel Eduardo. .
Anderson, Barret John.......
Anderson, Cyril Robert......
Andrew, B...................
Andrew, John Timothy........
Ansberry, Edward Clarence. . .
Anthony, B..................•.
Arias, Manuel Fernando........
Arteaga, Benjamin...........
Austin, B...................
Ayala, Antonio Lorenzo......
Baader, Ernest John..........
Bacigalupo, Paul Cicala......
Baldwin, Thomas Jerome. . . .
B aidwin, Warren.............
Bannigan, Peter Ambrose. . . .
Barrett, Lawrence John.......
Barrett, Edward Francis......
Barrett, David Moses.........
Barrozo, Guermercindo Carlos
Barry, George Francis........
Barry, Norman Christopher. .
Barry, James Edward..........
Bartel, Frank Octavo.........
Bartholomew, Norman Cletus..
Basil, B.....................
Baujan, Harry Clifford.......
Beaudry, Harold Arthur.......
Beaghan,” John Francis.......
Bearce,' Herbert Potter......
Beck, Severin Aloysius.......
Beckman,”' Edward?fjoseph.. . .
Becker, Michael Stanley......
................Indiana
...............Illinois
..............Wisconsin
..............Wisconsin
...............Michigan
................Mexico
................Mexico
...............Michigan
Argentine, South Ameria
.............Mexico
.Illinois
.Illinois
.............Massachusetts
.............Montana
.............Canal Zone
.............Indiana
.............Cuba
................ . Mexico
.............Arizona
.Mexico
...............Ohio
.....Tennessee
......Illinois
......Arkansas
............New	Jersey
.....Minnesota
.....Minnesota
.....Minnesota
Brazil, South America
......Illinois
......Illinois
......Illinois
.....Minnesota
..Pennsylvania
.....Wisconsin
......Illinois
......Illinois
......Illinois
......Illinois
..........Iowa
..........Ohio
...........Louisiana
222
bulletin or the
Bensberg, William Joseph...........................Missouri
Berchem, Alfred....................................Illinois
Berger, Alvin.......................................Indiana
Bergfeld, William Elliot...........................Illinois
Bergman, Arthur Joseph..............................Indiana
Berner, Leo Sebastian...............................Indiana
Bernet, William Gerard................................Illinois
Bernoudy, Alfred Charles..............................Illinois
Beyer, Louis August....................................Indiana
Bible, Robert Goggen................................New	Mexico
Bielecki, Stanislaus Joseph............................Indiana
Birder, Cecil Edward.............................North Dakota
Birder, Jacob Vivian.............................North	Dakota.
Birkenbuehl, Walter Edgar............................Illinois
Bjoin, Andrew Julius.................................Illinois
Blackburn, William John..............................Illinois
Blackman, Everett Augustus...........................Illinois
Blackwell, John Joseph................................Indiana
Blake, Richard Vincent............................Connecticut
Boeckling, George* Raymond................................Ohio
Bogaert, Alberto Aquilino........................ San	Domingo
Bohannon, Leo Verne.......................................Ohio
Boldt, August Herbert.................................Illinois
Bollin, Walter Scott..................................Missouri
Boland, Erank Joseph............................ Massachusetts
B omash, Julian......................................Illinois.
Boos, Francis Holgate.................................Michigan
Bott, Edwin Augustine.................................New	York
Bowen, Robert Mortimer............................Colorado
Bowles, John Hense................................Illinois
Boylan, Philip Vernon.................................Ohio
Boyle, Francis Thomas..............................Indiana
Boyle, John Thomas...............................Wisconsin
Bracho, Jose Fernando...............................Mexico
Brady, Lawrence William...............................Iowa
Braun, Richard Theodore..........................Wisconsin
Brennan, Raymond Patrick.............................New	York
Brentlinger, Byron William............................Indiana
Breslin, Francis Jerome............................California
Brizzolara, Aristo Cornelius.........................Arkansas
Brooke, Francis Ambrose..............................Michigan
Broussard, Clyde Eloi...................................Texas
Brown, George Erwin.................................Wisconsin
Brown, William Henry..............................  Wisconsin
Brown, Alfred John.....................................Oregon
Brown, Frank Aloysius................................Michigan
Burger, Alfred Andrew....................................Ohio
Burke, Harold Peter.. ...............................New	York
Burke, William Ignatius...............................Indiana
Burke, John Clarence................................Minnesota
Burke, William Joseph................................Illinois
Burkhard, Sylvester Jerome...............................Ohio
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	223
Burtt, Millard Cyril.................................Illinois
Burnham, Howard Edward.................................  Iowa
Burns, Hugh Oscar.....................................Indiana
Burns, John Thomas...................................Michigan
Burns, Russell Joseph..............................  Illinois
Burns, Stephen Emmett.................................Indiana
Burns, Sylvester Joseph..................................Ohio
Butler, Eugene John..................................Illinois
Burns, Thomas Francis................................Illinois
Bush, Hardy Joseph.................................New Jersey
Byrne, Joseph Michael..............................New Jersey
Byrne, Paul Ryan.....................................New	York
Byrnes, Robert Eouis.....................................Iowa
Cagney, Harry Louis.............
Cahill, James Francis............
Callery, Philip Joseph...........
Camp, William Fraser.............
Campbell, Francis Bartley.. . .
Campion, James Richard...........
Cangney, John Stuart.............
Cannon, Harold Clement...........
Cannon, Thomas Henry.............
Canty, William Sumner............
Cantway, Lester David............
Caparo, J. Angel.................
Carey, Charles Morris............
Carey, Joseph Thomas.............
-Carey, Edmund Aloysius..........
Carey, Eugene Thomas.............
Carleton, Jonathan Treadway
Carmody, Arthur Roderick.. .
Carmody, Francis Michael. . .
Carmody, Charles Moran...........
Carr, Robert Cushman.............
Carroll, Casimir Charles.........
Carroll, John Francis............
Carroll, Wells Worth.............
Carroll, William Michael.........
Carson, George Ernest............
Carter, Robert Curtis............
Cartier, Warren Ray..............
Carton, Richard Paul.............
Case, William Denning............
Casey, Gerard Henry..............
Casey, William Christopher..
Cassidy, Joseph Augustine. . .
Cassinelli, Frederick Anthony
Castillo, Antonio Alvarez........
Cavanaugh, John George...........
Cavanaugh, Leonard Russell..
Cermak, Jeremiah Francis... .
...........Illinois
...........Illinois
......Massachusetts
......Pennsylvania
......Montana
......Wisconsin
......Ohio
......Michigan
......Michigan
......Indiana
......Illinois
Peru, South America
............Kansas
............Kansas
....Illinois
.Illinois
....,........Illinois
....Louisiana
.......Louisiana
.......Michigan
.......Illinois
..........Ohio
.......Wisconsin
.......Michigan
.......Illinois
.......'..Texas
.......Missouri
.......Michigan
.......Indiana
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
.......Tennessee
.......New York
.......Illinois
.......Mexico
.......Michigan
.......South Dakota
.......Illinois
«


224
BULLETIN of the
Chambers, Edward Walter..........................Indiana
Chavez, Jorge Jesse....................................Mexico
Ciprian, Joseph Edward...............................Michigan
Clancy, Byron........................................Illinois
Clark, Joseph Reginald..............................Tennessee
Clark, Sheldon Adelbert..............................Illinois
Clarke, John Whitney.................................Illinois
Clay, Amos Kendall.......................................Ohio
Clarence, B..........................................Michigan
Cleary, Edward Patrick...............................Illinois
Cleary, Eawrence John................................Michigan
Cleaver, William E.................................Washington
Clements, Gerald Samuel..............................Kentucky
Clements, Walter Eouis................................Kentucky
Clifford, Twomey Michael...............................Indiana
Coffeen, Walter Henry..................................Indiana
Coffelt, Hugh Ragland.................................Illinois
Colby, Albert Paxton..................................Illinois
Colby, Colburn Joseph.....................................Iowa
Condon, Eeo James.....................................Illinois
Conmy, Joseph Bartholomew.........................North	Dakota
Conner, John Edward....................................Indiana
Connolly, Charles Colton..............................Illinois
Connelley, Robert Emmett..................................Iowa
Conway, Maurice Anthony.................................Oregon
Cook, William John......................................Oregon
Corasao, Alberto..........................Peru,	South America
Corcoran, John Bernard...................................New	York
Corcoran, William Joseph...................................Oregon
Costello, Joseph Patrick..................................Indiana
Cotter, William Edward...................................Illinois
Countiss, Frederick Napoleon.............................Illinois
Coyle, Matthew Aloysius...........................  Michigan
Craig, Andrew.......................................Illinois
Craven, Thomas Vincent.............................Eouisiana
Creel, Juan Francis...................................Mexico
Creel, Euis Jesse.....................................Mexico
Crilley, James Aloysius............................New York
Cronk, Eugene Duncan................................Missouri
Cremer, Glynn Francis..............................Wisconsin
Crowley, Charles Francis.......................Massachusetts
Cummiskey, Frederick James..........................Illinois
Cunning, Patrick Henry..........................Pennsylvania
Curran, Arthur Bernard.............................New York
Curry, George Arthur............................South	Dakota
Currey, James Augustine..........................Connecticut
Currey, Thomas Benedict..........................Connecticut
Currey, Clarence Joseph.............................Michigan
Curtis, Daniel Carr.................................Illinois
Cusack, William John....................................Iowa
Cusick, Dwight Paul.....................................Ohio
Cyr' Philip Joseph...................................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
225
Czarnecki, Edmund................................   Indiana
Damiani, Carlos Reinaldo................Peru,	South America
Damian, B......................................... .. Indiana
“J	,
Dancer, Louis James...............................Michigan
Daugherty Michael Augustine............................Ohio
Davidson, James Clarence........................Mississippi
Davila, Brancisco Paula..............................Mexico
Davis, Rex Maynard.................................Illinois
de Fries, Erich Hans...................................Iowa
de la Cruz, Jose.....................................Mexico
Delana, George William.............................Illinois
Delph, John Francis...............................  Indiana
Dennis, Clyde J.....................................Indiana
Denny, John Bert...............................Pennsylvania
Derrick, Clarence Joseph.......................Pennsylvania
Devereux, Thomas Francis...........................Kentucky
Devitt, James Ryan..................................  .Ohio
Devlin, James Sylvester........................Pennsylvania
Dew, Edward Livingston.............................Oklahoma
Dew, Jesse Edward..................................Oklahoma
Dicks, Charles Benjamin............................. . .Illinois
Dillon, Joseph Patrick.........................Pennsylvania
Dillon, Francis Joseph.........................Pennsylvania
Dinnen, John Richard................................Indiana
Dixon, Paul........................................Illinois
Doherty, Patrick Henry.............................Illinois
Dohn, Bernard Charles...........................  .Michigan
Dolan, Patrick Henry...............................Illinois
Dolan, William Thomas..............................Missouri
Donahue, William Matthew............................Indiana
Donelan, Francis Ward..................................Iowa
Donovan, William Joseph............................Michigan
Donohue, James Newton............’................New York
Dorais, Charles Emil..............................Wisconsin
Dowd, John Francis...............................  Illinois
Downey, Russell Hugh. . ............................Indiana
Downey, Timothy Edward............................  Montana
Downing, William Poyntelle.........................Illinois
Drushl, Charles Anthony..............................  Ohio
Duffy, Thomas Calasanctius......................Rhode	Island
Duggan, Edward Dean.................................Indiana
Duncan, Mark Lindsey................................Indiana
Dundon, John Richard...............................Michigan
Dundon, Frank Augustine............................Illinois
Dunn, Gordon John.................................  Alabama
Dunphy, William Francis.......................Massachusetts
Durand, Carlos.......................................Mexico
Durbin, Francis William................................Ohio
Durch, Bernard Jacob..............................Wisconsin
Durrell, Louis Frazier................................Texas
Dyer, Edwin Ruthwin...............-................Oklahoma
226	BULLETIN OF THE
Early, Francis William...............................Illinois
Eck, Vincent John................................Pennsylvania
Eckel, Jacob Edward..................................New	York
Eckhart, James Swan..................................Illinois
Edmund, B.............................................Indiana
Edward, B........................................... Michigan
Egan, Bernard Aloysius................................ . Illinois
Eichenlaub, Raymond Joseph...............................Ohio
Eick, Louis Ferdinand....................................Ohio
Eimer, Charles Eugene................................Illinois
EHward, Allen Henry.............................Massachusetts
Ennis, Paul..........................................Illinois
Erhardt, John Joseph.................................Indiana
Espinal Antonio Marino...................................Cuba
Fabian, B................................................Ohio
Fallon, Regis............................................Ohio
Fallon, Thomas.........................................  Ohio
Fanelli, Salvatore	Paul..............................Kentucky
Fanning, Francis Joseph...........................New Jersey
Farr, Armand Bernard..................................Indiana
Farrell, Joseph Richard..............................New	York
Farrell, Simon Thomas................................Illinois
Farry, Claude Joseph.................................Colorado
Fasenmeyer, Edward John..........................Pennsylvania
Fecher, Martin Walter................................Illinois
Feeney, Albert George.................................Indiana
Felix, B.............................................Illinois
Fenesy, James Clair..............................Pennsylvania
Fernandez, Manuel, O. P.............................Louisiana
Fernandez, Candido, O. P............................Louisiana
Feyder, Theodore Nicholas........................South	Dakota
Ffrench, Jasper Joseph...............................Illinois
Figel, Theodore Aloysius.............................Illinois
Figelstahler, Paul Albert................................Ohio
Finch, Wilmer Otis....................................Indiana
Finegan, Charles Thomas.................................Idaho
Finneran, Francis Xavier.................................Ohio
Fink, Lyman Louis....................................Michigan
Fitzgerald, Freeman Charles......................Washington.
Flanagan, Simeon Thomas...................................New	York
Fleischman, Roy Moe.................................Illinois
Fleming, Frank William....................................New	York
Fletcher, Emmett Brooks.................................Ohio
Florence, B.........................................Michigan
Flynn, Joseph Francis................................Indiana
Flynn, Joseph Patrick...............................New	York
Flynn, Charles Joseph..........................Massachusetts
Focke, Walter Eugene....................................Ohio
Foote, John Orley.................................South	Dakota
Forde, Thomas Daniel................................Illinois
Fordyce, J ohn Martin. *...........................Wisconsin
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	227
Fortier, Edward Emmett.
Fox, Jr. William Francis...
Franco, Carlos............
Frawley, Henry James.. ..
Frawley, William Gardner.
French, Charles William. .
French, Arthur Valentine.
Friedman, John Henry. . .
Fries, Alfred Francis.....
Fritch, Emil Joseph.......
Fritch, Louis Michael.....
Fritzsche, Allen William..
Fuhrman, Peter Julius.. . ..
Fumasoli, Ernest.............
Furlong, Thomas Aloysius
Gallagher, Patrick James....
Gallagher, William Doherty..
Galvin, Timothy Patrick......
Galvin, William Michael......
Gamboa, Octavio Francisco. .
Gannon, Toren Sheffield......
Gannon, Thomas Edward. .. .
Gargan, Joseph Francis.......
Garvey, Woolsey Robert.......
Gaupel, Roland Francis.......
Gecovic, Pascal..............
Geiger, Jacob Raphael........
Gendron, Eeon Peter..........
Gibson, Lester Light.........
Gilbough, Frederick Matthew.
Gloeckner, Albert Anthony.. .
Glueckert, Henry George......
Glynn, Thomas David..........
Godfrey, B...................
Gonzalez, Carlos Amador......
Gonzalez, Jose Maria.........
Gonzalez, Manuel.............
Gonzalez, Juan Garcia........
Good, Ralph Bernardine.. .. .
Gorman, Russell Ambrose. . .
Gotfredson, Robert Benjamin.
Graczol, Jr. John............
Granfield, William Joseph... .
Gray, Wilbur Theodore.........
Gregory, Charles Bernard.. . .
Green, Allan Ransom.........
Green, Edward Roy............
Green, George James..........
Grimore, James Harrison.. ..
Guerra, Benjamin.............
Guizar, Jr. Manuel............
......Illinois
......Indiana
......Mexico
South Dakota
South Dakota
. .New Mexico
.New Mexico.
......Indiana
. . . .. Michigan
......Illinois
......Illinois
......Ohio
. Pennsylvania
.......Illinois
.......Illinois
.......Pennsylvania
.......Idaho
............Indiana
..............Texas
...............Cuba
...........Michigan
..........Illinois
......Massachusetts
.........New Jersey
..........Missouri
............Turkey
...............Ohio
...............Ohio
............Illinois	.
..............Texas
.............  Ohio
............Indiana
............Indiana
Nova Scotia, Canada
Peru, South America
..............Cuba
..............Cuba
.............Mexico
...........Illinois
...........Michigan
...........Michigan
............Indiana
......Massachusetts
...........Michigan
...........Michigan
..........New York
............Kansas
...........Illinois
...........Michigan
.........Porto Rico
............Mexico
228
BULLETIN OB THE
Gumbiner, Milton..................................Michigan
Gurza, Fernando...................................  Mexico
Gushurst, Edward..............................South	Dakota
Gushurst, Frederick William...................South	Dakota
Gutierrez, Rafael Diez..............................Mexico
Hagerty, Michael Victor ................................Indiana
Hagerty, Jeremiah Joseph..........................Massachusetts
Hahne, Charles Forster.....................................Ohio
Haller, George Dewey...................................Michigan
Hamilton, Garland Buskirk........................West	Virginia
Hamler, Jerome Peter...................................Illinois
Hammer, William Augustine.........................New York
Hammond, Le Grande.....................................Michigan
Hanley, John Conner....................................Illinois
Hanrahan, Francis Joseph.............................	.Illinois
Hanafin, Thomas Joseph............................'.....Ohio
Hanlon, Jr. George Thomas..............................Illinois
Hanon, Otto Sylvester...........................South	Dakota
Hari, Louis Patrick....................................Kentucky
Harper, Albert Burgess.................................Missouri
Harrigan, John Lawler..................................Michigan
Hartman, Karl..........................................Illinois
Harvart, Edwin Joseph...................................Montana
Harvart, Paul Julius....................................Montana
Hassett, Francis Aloysius..............................Illinois
Hatten, Jr. Alvin Donald...............................Missouri
Havlin, John Ralph.. .. ..............................Wisconsin
Havey, William Cornelius................................Indiana
Hawkins, George Oscar....................................Kansas
Hawley, Edgar Joseph...................................Illinois
Hawley, John William...................................Illinois
Hayes, Arthur James...................................Minnesota
Hayes, Cornelius Byron..................................Indiana
Hayes, Francis Harold..................................Illinois
Hayes, James Raymond..................................Wisconsin
Hazinski, Leon Kasimir..................................Indiana
Healy, Harold James..,.................................Michigan
Healy, Joseph Jeremiah.................................Illinois
Healy, Kerndt Michael......................................Iowa
Healy, Thomas Moritz.......................................Iowa
Healy, Thomas Francis.................................  Ireland
Hearn, John Joseph............................Quebec,	Canada
Hearn, James Gabriel..........................Quebec,	Canada
Hearn, Thomas Hugh.......................................  Ohio
Hebert, Gaston A.....................................  Arkansas
Hebert, Walter James...................................Arkansas
Hebner, Harry Joseph.................................  Nebraska
Hecht, Arthur William..................................Illinois
Heffern,^William Michael...............................Illinois
Heiser, J oseph Allan................................Indiana
Hellert, MLouis Henry................................Indiana

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
229
Henehan, Martin Ignatius...............................Ohio
Herbert, Carroll Russell......................Massachusetts
Herr, Jesse James..................................Illinois
Herricks, Henry Glenn...............................Indiana
Heyl, Martin Joseph............................Pennsylvania
Hicks, William Joseph..............................Illinois
Higdon, James Hanson...............................Kentucky
Hilgartner, Daniel Elward..........................Illinois
Hillman Victor Emanuel..............................Indiana
Hiss, Frank Joseph..................................Indiana
Hladky, Wencil John....................................Iowa
Hoffman, Eugene Frederick.......................West	Virginia
Hoffman, George Marr...............................Coloradp
Hoffman, John Carroll...............................Indiana
Hogan, Francis Michael............................  Indiana
Hogan, James Edward...............................  Indiana
Hogan, Thomas......................................Illinois
Hogan, Edward...................,..................Illinois
Hogan, William Neill...........................Pennsylvania
Holden, George Francis..............................Indiana
Holden, John Edward...............................  Indiana
Holden, Philip......................................Indiana
Holderith, George Eeo...............................Indiana
Hood, John Leo........................................Idaho
Hoover, Sylvanus Arthur.............................Indiana
Hopkins, James Woodworth...........................Missouri
Hopkins, Robert Thomas.............................Missouri
Horn, Tyree Rivers...................................Kansas
Hosinski, Aloyisus W................................Indiana
Hubbell, Francis Alarico.................................New	Mexico
Hubbell, Ramon Guttierrez .......................New	Mexico
Hubbell, Lawrence Charles................................New	Mexico
Huber, Robert Edward................................Indiana
Hudson, Galvin George........................... .. Tennessee
Huerkamp, Frederic John................................Ohio
Hughes,	Reginald Ormond...........................Illinois
Hunter,	Arthur Burton............................. Indiana
Hurley,	Ira William...............................Illinois
Hussey,	John Earl.................................Illinois
Huszagh, Lyman Thomas..............................Illinois
Hynes, John Felix......................................Iowa
Irving, Gervase Augustine.........................Wisconsin
Isidore, B........................................Wisconsin
Jacobs, Edward....................................Louisiana
Janowski, Bronislaus Joseph.........................Indiana
J anowski, Ceslaus Louis............................Indiana
Jasinski, John Wincenty............................Illinois
Jellison, Floyd Ottowell..........................  Indiana
Jennett, Clarence Bernard..........................Illinois
Johnston, Philip Peter.............................Illinois
230
BULLETIN OB THE
Johnston, Donald O’Connor...........................Illinois
Jones, Harry Bernard................................Michigan
J ones, J ames Bernard..........................Pennsylvania
Jones, Joseph Charles...............................Illinois
Jones, Keith Kenneth.................................Montana
Joyce, Howard Francis..............................Wisconsin
Kaczmarek, Edward Marion.............................Indiana
Kalish, William Jacob...............................Illinois
Kane, Eugene Aloysius...........................Pennsylvania
Kane, Joseph John.. ...................................Texas
Kasper, Alexander Michael...........................Illinois
Kasper, Simeon Michael..............................Illinois
Keefe, Emmett Patrick................................Indiana
Keefe, Francis Fitzgerald............................Indiana
Keeffe, Herbert Richard.................................Iowa
Keegan, Daniel Paul.................................Illinois
Keeslar, L. D........................................Indiana
Kehoe, Frank Leo...................................Wisconsin
Keifer, Louis Frederick..............................Indiana
Kelleher, William Andrew..............................Oregon
Kelly, James Joseph.................................Illinois
Kelly, Raymond Gross.................................Indiana
Kelly, Herbert Barrett...............................Alabama
Kelly, John Charles..................................Indiana
Kelly, Joseph Patrick.....................................New	York
Kelly, Raymond John.................................Michigan
Kemler, William Paul................................Illinois
Kennedy, John Edward.................................Arizona
Kennedy, William Albert.................................Ohio
Kennedy, William Edward..............................Indiana
Kennedy, Donald Calkins..............................Indiana
Kenny, Joseph Francis..........................Massachusetts
Kessler, Francis Albertus...............................Ohio
Kiley, Francis Charles....................................New	York
Kiley, Louis John.........................................New	York
Kimes, Chester John.................................Montana
King, Albert Vincent................................Illinois
Kingsbury, Dwight...................................Indiana
Kinsella, James Foster.............................Illinois
Kinsella, Raymond Joseph............................Illinois
Kirby, Joseph Harry............................South Dakota
Kirby, Thomas Howard...........................South Dakota
Kirchman, Francis	John............................Nebraska
Kirchman, George	Jaroslav........................Nebraska
Kirchman, Robert	Charles.........................Nebraska
Kirk, Harry John.......................................Ohio
Kline, Clarence Joseph.........................Pennsylvania
Klopfer, Henry D...................................Illinois
Koehne, Peery Patterson..........................  Illinois
Koehne, John William...............................Illinois
Kolczynski, Joseph Alexander........................Indiana
Kolupa, Alvin Stanislaus............................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	231
Korbynski, Joseph Stanislaus........................Illinois
Kortlander, Herman Charles........................  Michigan
Kowalski, Sigfry d Theodore..........................Indiana
Kovacs, Joseph........*.........................Pennsylvania
Krajewski, Casimir Ignatius.........................Illinois
Kretschmer, Alfred Arnold.........................  Colorado
Kretschmer, Edward Herbert..........................Colorado
Kroll, John Joseph..................................Illinois
Krug, Henry Carl.....................................Ontario,	Canada
Kuehne, George......................................Illinois
Kuhle, Albert Anton.....................................South	Dakota
Kuhle, Jr. Henry John...................................South	Dakota
Kuhle, Otto Theodore....................................South	Dakota
Kuszynski, Stanley Stephen..........................Illinois
Lacey, Hugh Vivian.......
Ladislaus, B.............
Lahey, Charles William. ..
La Joie, Ernest Philip.. ..
Lamb, Leo................
Lamb, Vincent............
Landers, Walter Brennan.
Lang, Leroy Francis......
Langan, Joseph Francis...
Langan, Cyril Glynn......
Larkin, Arthur Bernard.. .
Larney, Edwin John.......
Lathrop, William George.. .
Lathrop, Ralph Jefferson.. .
Laughlin, Thomas McHugh
Lawler, James William....
Lawrence, Charles Barrett.
Le Blanc, Joseph Valrey.
Lenihan, Emmett George.
Lensing, Henry Bernard ...
Lenz, Philip George......
Lepreau, William Melville.
Lequerica, Antonio.......
Lequerica, Manuel.......
Leuty, Loy Courtney......
Lillis, John Edward......
Lisewski, Casimir Joseph..
Lockard, Frank Robert. ..
Loeb, Monroe Harrison. ..
Loftus,. William Dunn....

Londoner, Richard Pierson......................Massachusetts
Long, Forest........................................Illinois
Lower, Harold Joseph.................................Indiana
Lowery, Victor William..................................Ohio
Lucas, George Maurice................................Indiana
Lucas, John Joseph..................................Montana.
Lush, Louis Arthur..................................Illinois
.................Oregon
...............Illinois
...............Illinois
...............Michigan
...............Colorado
...............Colorado
...............Missouri
.........................Illinois
.........................Illinois
.........................Nebraska
.........................Illinois
.........................Illinois
..............Wisconsin
..............Wisconsin
..............Wisconsin
...........Pennsylvania
...................Ohio
........................Louisiana
........................Iowa
........................Indiana
.........................Illinois
. . .'...................Illinois
Colombia, South America
Colombia, South America
.. . .•.........Indiana
..............Minnesota
...............Illinois
...................Ohio
...............Illinois
............   Illinois
232	bulletin of the
Luzney, Francis Xaxier..............................Indiana
Lynch, George Alfred..............................New York
Lynch, Jr. Janies Joseph...............................Iowa
Lynch, Robert Patrick..................................Utah
Lyons, William Joseph.............................New York
MacCarthy, Cornelius George............................Iowa
MacDonald, William Edward...........................Montana
MacGregor, Donald Patrick...........................Indiana
Madden, Francis Leo................................Michigan
Madden, Harold Daniel.............................Minnesota
Madden, Harold Francis.................................Ohio
Maguire, Harry Edmund..........................Pennsylvania
Maguire, Leon......................................Illinois
Mahaffey, Frederick Thomas..........................Indiana
Maher, James Dee..................................Wisconsin
Mahoney, Walter Joos...............................Michigan
Malkowski, John Stanislaus.........................Illinois
Malone, Louis Pierre...................................Ohio
Maloney, Eugene Augustine......................Pennsylvania
Maltby, John Joseph................................Illinois
Mangan, Michael Joseph..............................Ireland
Mann, Harry Joseph.................................Illinois
Marcille, Gilbert Grover............................New	York
Marcus, Edward Nicholas.............................Indiana
Margraf, John.......................................Indiana
Marin, Francis, O. P..............................Louisiana
Markey, Edward James...........................Pennsylvania
Massey, George Joseph..............................Illinois
Mathews, James Anthony............................Wisconsin
Mattingly, Stephen Twyman..........................Kentucky
Matthew, B.............................................Iowa
Mauer, Harry Eugene................................Michigan
Mee, Edward Francis................................Illinois
Mee, Thomas Simon..................................Illinois
Meehan, Martin Patrick.............................Illinois
Meers, John Scott..................................Illinois
Meersman, Peter J..................................Illinois
Meier, Russell Frederick..........................Missouri.
Meng, William Cornelius................................Ohio
Merrion, John Leroy................................Illinois
Merrion, Eugene Valentine..........................Illinois
Messersmith, George Murray.........................Illinois
Metzger, Harry Augustine............................Indiana
Meuninck, Julius....................................Indiana
Meuser, Willian Beck...................................Iowa
Meyer, Anthony Herman..................................Iowa
Meyer, Joseph Albert.. ............................... Ohio
Meyers, Stephen Francis Erwin..............*.......Illinois
Micinski, John Stanislaus...........................Indiana
Milanowski, Stanislaus Francis.....................Illinois
Miller, Grover Francis............................Wisconsin
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	233
Miller, Joseph Henry...............................New York
Miller, Lyman William...........:.....................Sweden
Miller, Omar Hubert...............................  Illinois
Miller, Raymond Clendenin........................... Indiana
Miller, Raymond Thomas..................................Ohio
Milligan, Peter Robert..............................Illinois
Milliken, Norman Clarence............................Indiana
Mills, Frederick Leon...............................Illinois
Mills, Rupert Frank..............................New Jersey
Milroy, William Josephs.............................Illinois
Miner, Joseph Peter.............................Pennsylvania
Monier, John Lawrence...............................Illinois
Monaghan, Francis John..............................Illinois
Monroe, Francis James...........................Pennsylvania
Monroe, Francis Patrick.........................Pennsylvania
Mooney, Edward Vincent...............................Indiana
Mooney, Francis Gerald................................. .. Ohio
Mooney, William Joseph...............................Indiana
Morales, Alfred Edward................................Mexico
Moran, Cyril Godfrey................................Michigan
Moran, Denis Sullivan................................Indiana
Morgan, Stephen John................................Illinois
Moritz, Louis Eugene................................Michigan
Moriarity, Herbert Bernard.........................Tennessee
Morrison, Charles Wealstead.........................Illinois
Morse, Jr. Robert Hosmer............................Illinois
Moskwinski, Joseph Florian...........................Indiana
Motts, Edward Theodore...............................Indiana
Mottz, Charles Peter................................Missouri
Moushey, Paul Joseph....................................Ohio
Moynihan, Andrew Joseph..............................Indiana
Muckle, Leo Augustine..............................New York
Mulcaire, Michael Aloysius...........................Ireland
Mulcahy, Francis Patrick...........................New York
Muldoon, Jr. John Andrew............................Illinois
Mulholland, Emmett Paul.................................Iowa
Mullaley, Jr. William Joseph........................Illinois
Munger, Harold Henry....................................Ohio
Murphy, Daniel Joseph.............................  Illinois
Murphy, John Cornelius..............................Illinois
Murphy, John James. . ..........................Pennsylvania
Murphy, Kingsley Hopkins...........................Minnesota
Murphy, Owen Joseph.............................Pennsylvania
Murphy, Charles Joseph...........................   Illinois
Murphy, Willard Eugene..............................Illinois
Murray, Harry Booth..............................New Mexico
Myers, Harry Jacob.................................  Indiana
McAdams, Raymond Francis...........................New York
McBride, Eugene Richard.........................Pennsylvania
McBride, Francis Bernard........................Pennsylvania
McBride, Thomas Mars................................Illinois
McCall, Owen James..................................Missouri
•234
BULLETIN OF THE
McCamic, Edward Paul... ....................West	Virginia
McCarren, Edward Walter........................Missouri
McCarthy, Charles Herman......................Minnesota
McCarthy, Denis Timothy.........................Indiana
McCarthy, John Vincent.............................Iowa
McCarthy, Louis Augustine.....................Minnesota
McConnell, Harold Andrew.......................Nebraska
McConnell, Walton Jerome........................Indiana
McCormick, Francis Foster.....................Minnesota
McCourt, Francis Hugh..........................Illinois
McCourt, Walter Patrick............................Ohio
McCoy, George Nolan...........................Wisconsin
McCune, Robert Henry...............................Ohio
McDermott, James Aloysius......................Illinois
McDonald, George DeWald........................Illinois
McDonald, James Harold.........................Illinois
McDonald, William Cecil.........................Indiana
McDonald, Lawrence Earl......................California
McDonough, Andrew Leo.........................New Jersey
McDonough, Francis John.......................New Jersey
McGary, Franklin Dudley........................Kentucky
McGinnis, Daniel Vincent.......................Missouri
McGladigan, Gerald Joseph..................Pennsylvania
McGolrich, James Celestine...................Wisconsin-
McGovern, Thomas Aloysius..........................Iowa
McGrath, Arnold John...........................Illinois
McGrath, Joseph Michael.........................New	York
McGraw, John Felix.........................Pennsylvania
McGuire, Leo Francis...........................Oklahoma
McGuire, Thomas Frank...........................Indiana
Mcllwee, Lawrence Anthony......................Colorado
Mcllwee, William Joseph........................Colorado
McInerney, Paul Buchanan.......................Illinois
McKinney, Truman Dixon..........................Indiana
McLaughlin, Joseph Gerald.......................New	Jersey
McLaughlin, Thomas Flynn........................New	York
McManus, Thomas Joseph.........................Illinois
McMullen, Hubert...................................Ohio
McNamara, Charles Raymond.....................Wisconsin
McNamara, Vincent Francis.....................Wisconsin
McNamara, William Michael......................Illinois
McNichols, Austin Aloysius.....................Illinois
McNichols, Harry Joseph........................Illinois
McQuade, Bernard James.....................Pennsylvania
McQueeney, Lawrence Edward....................Wisconsin
McShane, John Joseph............................Indiana
McShane, George Felix..........................Nebraska
Neifer, Dale Scudder............................Indiana
Neville, William Francis...........................Iowa
Newgass, Mitchell Cornelius....................Illinois
Newning, Harry McCarthy...........................Texas
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
235
Newning, Samuel de Cordova............................Texas
Newton, Joseph Fay.................................Illinois
Niemier, Melchior Stanislaus........................Indiana
Nieuwland, Arthur...................................Indiana
Nigro, Dominico Michael................................Missouri	-
Nigro, Rocco Carmelo...............................Illinois
Nilles, Frederick William...:......................Illinois
Nolan, Michael Harvey...............................Indiana
Norbert, B.....................................    Michigan
Norckauer, Morris Joseph.......................-.......Ohio
Norton, Charles	Thomas.............................Indiana
Norton, Edward George..........................South Dakota
Noud, Reuben Patrick...............................Michigan
Nowers, Paul.........................................Kansas
O’Boyle, Desmond Gladstone......................................Ontario, Canada
O’Brien, Arthur Coffey.........................Michigan
O’Brien, James Francis...'..........................Illinois
O’Brien, Joseph Francis..........................  .New	Jersey
O’Connell, Francis Maurice......................Pennsylvania
O’Connell, John Francis.............................Illinois
O’Connell, John William.............................Illinois
O’Connell, Theodore Willliam........................Illinois
O’Connor, Jr. Thomas Henry..........................New	York
O’Donnell, Harold Francis......................Massachusetts
O’Donnell, James Patrick.............................Montana
O’Donnell, John Hugh................................Michigan
O’Donnell, Raymond Thomas............................Indiana
O’Donoghue, John Brennan............................Illinois
O’Hanlon, Joseph Redmond...............................Texas
O’Hara, Herman Benedict..............................Indiana
O’Hara, James William................................  .Ohio
O’Hearn, Francis Maurice............................Missouri
O’Malley, John Joseph...............................Missouri
O’Neill, Howard John................................Illinois
O’Neill, William Terence............................Illinois
O’Neil, Ronald Sylvester.............................Indiana
O’Neill, Terence James...........................Connecticut
O’Neil, Thomas Francis................................  Ohio
Ording, Carl Henry..................................Illinois
O’Reilly, Francis Warren..............................Oregon
O’Rourke, Francis Camillus..............................Ohio
Osborn, Lee.........................................Illinois
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph..............................Illinois
Otero, Ernest McKinley....................................New	Mexico
Otero, Oscar Leonard......................................New	Mexico
Outhuse, David Edward...............................Michigan
Owens, John Raymoud.....................................Ohio
Palmer, Cornelius Raymond...........................Illinois
Pascoe, Harry William...................................South	Dakota
Peil, Edward Fyans.................................Wisconsin
236	bulletin of the
Pelletier, Adrian Werner............................Illinois
Pena, Louis Salvador....................................Cuba
Pena, Manuel............................................Cuba
Pena, Theodore..........................................Cuba
Pepin, Donat Joseph.................................Michigan
Perez, Armando..........................................Cuba
Perrott, Samuel Ward.................................Indiana
Petersen, Holbert Stephen............................Indiana
Petru, Edmund John..................................Illinois
Peurrung, Joseph Charles................................Ohio
Phibbs, John Xavier................................New York
Plant, John.........................................Illinois
Pliego, Francisco Xavier..............................Mexico
Pliska, Joseph Stanley............................. Illinois
Polakow, Julius.................................... Illinois
Portillo, Eduardo Lopez...............................Mexico
Poyer, Lester Philip................................Michigan
Pralatowski, Frederick Michael.....................New York
Prieto, Pedro Jesse...................................Mexico
Prieto, Salvador......................................Mexico
Pritchard, Edwin Moore...............................New	Jersey
Purcell, William Patrick................................Ohio
Quinlan, Patrick Thomas.................................Ohio
Quinlan, Francis Michael.............................New	York
Quinlan, Francis Raymond.......................Massachusetts
Quintanilla, Ignatius Manuel..........................Mexico
Rafferty, Raymond Charles...........................Illinois
Railton, Jr. Bert Aloysius..........................Illinois
Railton, John R. T..................................Illinois
Ranstead, Norman Hugh...............................Illinois
Raymond, B.........................................     Ohio
Rea, John Wentworth.................................Virginia
Reading, Almon Franklin............................ Michigan
Reading, Harvey J udd...............................Michigan
Reagan, Charles Michael.. ...........................Indiana
Rebillot, Lawrence Joseph............................  .	Ohio
Reeber, Charles Christopher........................Louisiana
Reed, William.................................  Pennsylvania
Redden, William Joseph.................................Idaho
Regan, George Joseph................................Illinois
Reilly, Andrew Joseph...............................Missouri
Reilly, Thomas Walter...................................Ohio
Remmes, Francis Bernard........................Massachusetts
Remmes, Walter Augustine.......................Massachusetts
Reynolds, Charles Lewis..............................Indiana
Rice, Daniel Frederick..............................Illinois
Riddle, James Mortimer.............................Louisiana
Riedman, Emil John...................................New	York
Riely, Edward Francis...............................Illinois
Rielly, Charles.....................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	237
Risch, Robert........................................Illinois
Roach, Edward Andrew.....................................Iowa
Roach, Robert Leonard....................................Iowa
Roach, James Emmett..................................Illinois
Roberts, Burt Leo....................................Arkansas
Robins, James Vermont............................New Mexico
Robinson, Glenn Eugene...............................Michigan
Robinson, William Henry...............................Indiana
Roche, Arthur Breen..............................."..Illinois
Roche, Maurice Edward............................... Illinois
Roche, John Stephen...................................Ireland
Rockne, Knute........................................Illinois
Rohan, Howard Joseph.....................................Ohio
Rokop, Andrew Michael...............................  Indiana
Roney, Nari Grady....................................Illinois
Rose, Edward Joseph.................................New	York
Rose, Walter Silver .................................Illinois
Rothwell, Erwin Carl..................................Wyoming
Rubio, Ramon Garcia......................................Cuba
Rudolph, Simon Raymond....................•......Pennsylvania
Russina, Henry Louis...............................  Illinois
Ryan, Authur William.....................................Ohio
Ryan, Francis John....................................Indiana
Ryan, Frank Martin.....................................  Ohio
Ryan, Francis Richard...............................Illinois-
Ryan, Howard Joseph..................................Michigan
Ryan, James Joseph................................Rhode	Island
Ryan, Nobles Fred.....................................Indiana
Ryan, Paul Joseph..............................  Pennsylvania
Ryan, Vincent DePaul.................................Michigan
Sakanovsky, Ralph..............*.....................Illinois
Salazar, Emilio Raphael................................  Cuba
Sallust, Karroll Thompson...........................  Indiana
Samuel, Anthony Stanislaus...........................Illinois
Sanders, Clyde Clayton................................Indiana
Sanford, James Edward....................................Ohio
San Pedro, Alvaro R......................................Cuba
San Pedro, George Rodriguez..........................Cuba
Santee, John Andrew.. ............................Illinois
Saravia, Augustine Gonzalez.........................Mexico
Saravia, Ricardo Gonzalez..........................Mexico
Savage, Paul Howells...................................Ohio
Sawkins, John Alfred...................................Ohio
Scanlon, John Tone.................................Illinois
Scheid, William Howard.............................Michigan
Schiff, Leo Ferdinand.............................New	Mexico
Schinkoeth, Leroy................................  Illinois
Schlipf, Albert Charles............................Illinois
Schmidt, George Kasper.............................Illinois
Schneider, George Russell..............................Ohio
Schneider, Leo August..........................Pennsylvania
238	-	BULLETIN OF THE
Schreyer, Andrew Ignatius............................Indiana
Schumacher, Leo Albert...............................Indiana
Schuster, George Peter.............................Wisconsin
Schutz, Edwin......................................New	Mexico
Schwalbe, Oscar Henry...............................Illinois
Schwartz, Albert....................................Illinois
Schwartz, Paul....................................  Illinois
Schwartz, Samuel Paul................................Indiana
Scollard, Stephen Fitzgerald..........................Oregon
Scott, Harry Edward..................................Indiana
Scully, Vincent Charles.............................Illinois
Sharp, Arthur Joseph..................................Oregon
Shaughnessy, Thomas Joseph..........................Illinois
Shea, William James.................................Illinois
Sheehan, Charles Aloysius......................Massachusetts
Sheehy, Carroll Harry...............................Illinois
Sheehy, Edward St. Clare............................Illinois
Shepard, George Martin............................California
Shouvlin, Daniel Robert.................................Ohio
Sieber, Raymond Joseph...........................  Wisconsin
Simon, Henry Anthony................................Michigan
Singelyn, James Alphonse...............-........... Michigan
Singler, Robert Jacob................................Indiana
Simons, Roger Charles...............................Illinois
Skelly, Daniel Joseph...........................Pennsylvania
Smith, Charles Hewitt...............................Illinois
Smith, Delbert Devereux.............................Illinois
Smith, Charles Warren.............................  New	York
Smith, Glenn Andrew.....................................Ohio
Smith, Harry Aloysius..............................New York
Smith, James Patrick................................Missouri
Smith, Joseph Clovis... .'..........................New	York
Smith, Joseph Francis...................................Ohio
Smith, Paul Joseph...................................Indiana
Smith, Walter Aloysius..........................Pennsylvania
Snyder, Clarence Vanling............................Illinois
Soisson, Basil Joseph...........................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Ignatius Lang..........................Pennsylvania
Soisson, Leon Joseph....................................Ohio
Sparrow, Richard Paul...............................Illinois
Somers, Charles.....................................Illinois
Sotomayor, David Jose.................................Mexico
Sotomayor, Luis Fernando..............................Mexico
Spillane, John Owen.............................Pennsylvania
Spillane, Arthur James.............................Pennsylvania	*
Stack, James Joseph.................................Illinois
Stack, Joseph William...................................Ohio
Stack, William Cornelius...........................Wisconsin
Stanford, Francis Curtis..............................Kansas
Stapelton, Charles Damien...............................Iowa
Stein, William Harris................................Indiana
Steis, Edwin Gerald..................................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	239
Steitz, Gustave John..................................Illinois
Steppier, Joseph Peter..........................z.	. .Wisconsin
Stettauer, Martin Stanley.............................Illinois
Stevenson, Martin Lindsey.................................Ohio
Stewart, Janies Bernard...............................Illinois
Stoll, DeForest.......................................Illinois
Stoll, Robert.........................................Illinois
Story, James Abbott...................................Oklahoma
Strassner, George Francis.................................Ohio
Strahan, Speer William................................Michigan
Strickfaden, Aloysius Ignatius............................Ohio
Stueckle, Charles Clarence.............................Indiana
Stubler, Peter Charles............................Pennsylvania
Stull, Arlie Wesley....................................Indiana
Sturdivant,, William Okeson...........................Illinois
Sturn, Leo Alfred.....................................Michigan
Sullivan, Andrew Florence.............................Illinois
Sullivan, Daniel Edwin.................................Wyoming
Sullivan, Donald Walter...............................Michigan
Sullivan, John Francis................................Illinois
Sullivan, Marion Francis...............................Indiana
Sullivan, Melville Edward.............................Virginia
Sullivan, Owen Terence................................Kentucky
Sullivan, Raymond John....................................Iowa
Susen, Henry Peter....................................Illinois
Susen, William Hubert.................................Illinois
Sweeney, William James................................Illinois
Sylvester, Joseph Harry..............................Minnesota
Szymanski, Edwin Edward................................Indiana
Talcott, Harrison Wood.................................Indiana
Tansey, Joseph Aloysius................................Indiana
Thole, Joseph Isadore...........................South Dakota
Thul, Francis Matthew.....................................Iowa
Tierney, Harry Bernard................................Nebraska
Tipton, Jr. William Reuben..........................New	Mexico
Tomczak, Ladislaus Proch...........................   Illinois
Tomisazeski, Stanley Hilary............................Indiana
Toohey, William Augustine.............................New	York
Traynor, James Joseph.................................Oklahoma
Treanor, Ralph Edward.....................................Indiana	,
Treanor, William Good..................................Indiana
Troxler, Creston Roch................................Louisiana
Truder, Thomas Vincent..............................New	Mexico
Truscott, Frederick Louis............................  Montana
Tschudi, Leo Louis........................................Iowa
Turner, Jay Marcus....................................Illinois
Twining, Simon Ercile.....................................Ohio
Tylski, Walter William................................Illinois
Tutt, James Pendelton.................................Illinois
Tutt, David Lange.....................................Illinois
Tutt, Charles Minshall................................Illinois
240
BULLBTlN op thb
Usera, Ferdinand Hector............................Porto	Rico
Utz, Henry Paul......................................New	York
Valles, Jose Trinity...................................Mexico
Valles, Manuel Donaciano...............................Mexico
Verhoeven, August Leo................................Illinois
Vincent, B.............................................  Ohio
Viso, Geraldo Alejandro............................Porto	Rico
Viso, Joaquin Bmelio...............................Porto	Rico
Viso, Nemesio Celso................................Porto	Rico
Voedisch, Hugo Henry..................................Indiana
Voelkers, John Joseph.................................Indiana
Vogel, Leo Joseph................................Pennsylvania
Vogt, Richard.........................................Indiana
Vyzral, Sylvester Victor.............................Illinois
Wall, William Francis...............................Wisconsin
Walsh, George Raymond....................................Ohio
Walsh, John Joseph...................................New	York
Walsh, Joseph Martin.............................Pennsylvania
Walsh, Thomas Joseph.............................Pennsylvania
Walter, Martin Bmmett................................Illinois
Walter, Norman Louis.................................Illinois
Walter, B................................................Ohio
Ward, James Patrick..................................Illinois
Ward, Richard Francis................................Illinois
Ward, Robert Bmmett..................................Illinois
Ward, John Michael....................................Montana
Wasson, James........................................Illinois
Wathen, William Nicholas........................\	. Kentucky
Weckler, Paul Bugene.................................Illinois
Welch, John Aloysius..................................Indiana
Welch, Lawrence Joseph................................Indiana
Welch, Leo Francis....................................Indiana
Welch, Thomas Rowland................................Illinois
Welsh, Roland Battersby..............................Illinois
Welsh, Frank Baird...................................Missouri
Weidner, Herbert Pancratius..........................Illinois
Wells, March Forth...................................Michigan
Wendland, Robert Joseph..............................Michigan
Wentland, Francis Louis...............................Indiana
Werling, James Foster................................Illinois
White, Richard Mitchell............’................Tennessee
White, John Maunsel.................................Tennessee
Wickizer, Claude B....................................Indiana
Wildgen, Jerome Charles................................Kansas
Williams, Fred........................................Indiana
Williams, Max......................................  Illinois
Williams, Solomon....................................Illinois
Williamson, Clarence John................................Ohio
Wilmes, Carl Bdward..................................Michigan
Wilson, George Philip..............................  Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	241
Witt, Irving John................................Nebraska
Wittenberg, John Conrad.....................West Virginia
Wittenberg, Newman John...................... West	Virginia
Woo, Wai Kyi........................................China
Wood, Paul Meyers.................................Indiana
Wright, Alfred Edward..........J..........Ontario,	Canada
Wright, Kenneth Eugene...........................Illinois
Yerns, Peter Charles.............................New York
Young, Andrew Winfred...........................Wisconsin
Young, Jack Spalding.............................Kentucky
Young, Thomas Brown..............................Kentucky
Yund, Walter Sidney...............................Montana
Zahm, William Mathias.............................Indiana
Zapata, Lino Eduardo...............................Mexico
SUMMARY
Alabama....................2	Oklahoma...................6
Arizona....................2	Oregon.....................9
Arkansas...................5	Pennsylvania..............48
California.................3	Rhode Island...............2
Colorado...................9	South Dakota..............17
Connecticut................4	Tennessee..................7
Idaho......................4	Texas...................   9
Illinois.................270	Utah.......................1
Indiana..................152	Virginia...................2
Iowa......................30	Washington.................2
Kansas.....................8	West Virginia..............5
Kentucky..................12	Wisconsin.................37
Louisiana.................12	Wyoming....................2
Massachusetts............18
Michigan..................66	Canada.....................6
Minnesota.................13	China......................1
Mississippi................1	Cuba........„.............13
Missouri..................22	Canal Zone...................1	•
Montana...................13	Ireland....................4
Nebraska.-.................9	Mexico..............7.....31
New Jersey................11	Porto Rico.................5
New Mexico................14	San Domingo................1
New York..................41	South America..............8
North Dakota...............3	Sweden.....................1
Ohio......................81	Turkey...................  1
Total........................1026
242
BULLETIN OF THE
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS
■	1912-13
Honorary President.
Rev. Denis A. Clarke, ’70,
Columbus, Ohio.
President.
Honorable William P. Higgins, ’03,
Boston, Mass.
Vice-Presidents.
Joseph J. Sullivan, ’01.
Chicago, Illinois.
Clement C. Mitchell, ’02.
Chicago, Illinois.
Louis J. Salmon, ’05,
Syracuse, N. Y.
John F. Shea, ’o6,
.	Holyoke, Mass.
•	John C. Tully, ’n.
Chicago, Illinois.
Russell G-. Finn, ’12,
Detroit, Michigan.	;
Secretary.
Rev. William A. Moloney, C. S. C., ’05,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Treasurer.
Honorable Warren A. Cartier, ’87.
Ludington, Mich.
Trustees, ex-officio.
Rev. John Cavanaugh, C. S. C., ’90.
President of the University.
PIon. William P. Higgins, ’03,
President of the Alumni Association.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
243
For One Year, I9i2-’i3.
Rev. A. B. O’Neill, C. S. C., ’91,
Notre Dame, Ind.
COLONEL WILLIAM HOYNES, ’77,
Notre Dame, Ind.
Byron V. Kanaley, ’04,	.
Chicago, Illinois.
For Two Years, I9i2-’i4.
Thomas A. Daily, ’74,
Adrian, Mich.
Thomas A. Medley, ’98,
Owensboro, Ky.
Harry G. Hogan, ’04,
Tort Wayne, Ind.	.
LOCAL CLUBS
THE NOTRE dame CLUB OF CHICAGO.
Francis McKeever, President, 1008 City Hall Square
Building.
Stewart M. Graham, Secretary, 2005 S. Michigan Ave.
Thomas G. Sexton, Treasurer, 236 W. Take St.
Mark M. Foote, Judge Michael F. Girton, Byron V.
Kanaley, Stephen F. Riordan, Daniel L. Madden,
James V. Cunningham, John C. Tully, Executive
Committee.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO.
Rev. John T. O’Connell, Honorary President, 2290
Ashland, Avenue.
John Wernert, President, 1028 Ontario Street.
Michael P. Hannin, Vice-President, 2325 Franklin
Avenue.
James J. Cooney, Secretary, 15 Page Street.
Joseph O’Reilly, Treasurer, 216 Burnham Street.
244
BULLETIN OB THE
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OR PITTSBURG.
Raymond J. Daschbach, President, Jenkins Arcade Bldg.
Raymond J. Burns, Vice-President, 5601 Baum Street.
Rd ward P. Rscher, Secretary, Swissvale Station,
Braddock,
Howard J. Diebold, Treasurer, 5735 Center Avenue.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA.
Joseph D. Murphy, President, United States Mint.
Andrew J. Hanhauser, Secretary, 1505 Venango Street
John H. Neeson, Treasurer, 5116 North Broad Street.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PORTLAND, OREGON.
Hon. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
R. J. Lonergan, Secretary, Chamber of Commerce Bldg.
John R. Daly, Treasurer, Lewis Building.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON.
Dr. John Rennessey, President, 19 Adams St., Dorchester.
Honorable William P. Higgins, Vice-President, 31
South Boston.
William H. McCarthy, Secretary-Treasurer, 91 Ocean
St., Lynn.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MINNEAPOLIS AND ST. PAUL.
Louis P. Chute, President, 7 University Avenue, N. R.,
Minneapolis.
William M. O’Brien, Vice-President, Rden Valley,
Minnesota.
Thomas J. McKeon, Vice-President, 817 Poigney Bldg.,
Duluth.
William D. Jamieson, Secretary, 1903 Selby Ave.,
St. Paul
Thomas O’Regan, Treasurer, 1773 Laurel Ave., St. Paul.
George Rreeman, Oliver H. Tong, Judge Brady, Rx-
ecutive Committee.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
245
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Building.
Prank P. Burke, Vice-President, Pabst Building.
George B. Ziegler, Secretary, 233 Bast Water Street.
Louis B. Best, Treasurer, 721 Central Avenue.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON, OHIO.
John C. Shea, President, 810 Reibold Building.
Thomas A. Lord, Secretary, 127 Maple Street.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE, INDIANA.
John W. Bggemann, President, 614 Shoaff Building.
Harry G. Hogan, Vice-President, Court & Berry Streets.
Joseph M. Haley, Secretary, Old National Bank Bldg.
Robert L. Box, Treasurer, Care of Box Brothers.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOLIS.
Maurice A. Neville, President, 3114 Park Avenue.
Rev. Vincent D. Dwyer, Vice-President, 617 Bast
North Street.
James B. Deery, Secretary, 217 Randolph Street.
George J. Potts, Treasurer, 2822 Talbott Avenue.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK.
Rev. Luke J. Bvers, President, 20 City Hall Place.
Brank P. Dwyer, Vice-President, 208 Broadway
Rev. John B. McGrath, Vice-President, 282 W. 118th St.
Peter P. McBlligott, Secretary, 93 Wall Street.
Charles A. Gorman, Treasurer, 229 Grand St., Brooklyn.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WASHINGTON, D. C.
Charles P. Neill, President, Commissioner of Labor.
James D. Barry, Secretary-Treasurer, 928 Bourteenth
Street, N. W.
Rev. Joseph Boyle, C. S. C., Joseph J. Kilkenny,
Dr. J. Augustine Blynn, Brancis Cull, Bxecutive
Committee.
24.6	BULLETIN OB THE
SIXTY-EIGHTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
JUNE 17, 1912
CONFERRING OF DEGREES
The Degree or Doctor or Science in Course
was conferred on the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C. S. C.
Thesis: “Studies in General and Systematic Botany.”
The Degree or Doctor or Philosophy in Course
was conferred on Guillermo Patterson Jr.
Thesis: “The Rapid Analysis of Alloys and a Study
of the Compound Antimony tetra-sulphide.”
The Degree op Doctor op Laws was conferred
on a distinguished priest whose work in the field of
education has been of conspicuous merit and who
has borne a large and honorable part in the organization
and development of the Catholic Educational Asso-
ciation, the Rev. Francis W. Howard, Columbus, Ohio.
*
The Degree op Master op Laws was conferred
on Henry Goetenkemper Clarke, South Bend, Indiana.
Thesis: “The Trusts.”
The Degree op Bachelor op Arts was conferred
on: Christopher Francis Brooks, Watertown, Wisconsin;
Patrick Arthur Barry, Bellows Falls, Vermont; Cyril
Joseph Curran, Rochester, New York; Thomas Dock-
weiler, Los Angeles, California; Henry Isidore Dock-
weiler, Los Angeles, California; Russell Gregory Finn,
Detroit, Michigan; Edward Joseph Howard, Bellows
Falls, Vermont.
The Degree op Bachelor op Letters was con-
ferred on: Dr. Michael Valentine Halter, Akron,
Ohio; Bernard Herman Lange, Oil City, Pennsylvania.
The Degree op Bachelor op Philosophy was
conferred on: Dwight Cusick, Crooksville, Ohio; John
Frederick Daily, Beloit, Kansas; Walter Duncan,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	247
LaSalle, Illinois; Jay Lee, Bay City, Michigan; John
Francis McCague, Homestead, Pennsylvania; William
Joseph Parish, Momence, Illinois.
The Degree of Bacheeor of Science in Bioeogy
was conferred on: Joseph Martin Huerkamp, Erlanger,
Kentucky; Joseph Andrew Martin, Huntington, Indi-
ana; George Warren Philbrook, Willow Brook, Cal-
fornia.
The Degree of Bacheeor of Science in Chemistry
was conferred on Arthur Deady Walsh, New Brunswick,
New Jersey.
The Degree of Bacheeor of Science in Archi-
tecture was conferred on: Benedict Joseph Kaiser,
South Bend, Indiana; Wendell Thomas Phillipps,
Milford, Massachusetts.
The Degree of Civie Engineer was conferred on:
Jose Bracho, Durango, Mexico; Enrique Cortazar,
Chihuahua, Mexico; Carlos Alfonso Duque, Cuzco,
Peru; Francisco Delgardo Enaje, Naval, Leyte, Philip-
pine Islands; John Patrick McSweeney, Glen Falls,
New York; Fred James Stewart, Baraboo, Wisconsin;
Leo Justin Shannon, Hamilton, Montana; Alfredo
Arnulfo Sanchez, Mexico City, Mexico.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer. was con-
ferred on: William Basil Hayden, Shullsburg, Wis-
consin; Walter John Maguire, South Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania; Paul August Rothwell, Buffalo, Wyoming.
The Degree of EeECTRicae Engineer was con-
ferred on: John Mackin Bannon, Crafton, Pennsyl-
vania; Fabian Neele Johnston, St. Louis, Missouri;
Albert Heuser Keys, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma;
Arthur Aloysius Keys, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma;
248
BULI^TIN OF THF
Donnelly Patrick McDonald, Port Wayne, Indiana;
Robert Joseph McGill, Indianapolis, Indiana; Paul
August Rothwell, Buffalo, Wyoming; Charles John
Robinson, Mardhoff, California.
Thf Dfgrff of Bachfror of Laws was conferred
on: Hugh Paul Aud, Owensboro, Kentucky; Premont
Arnfield, Bigin, Illinois; James Warren Burke, Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin; Pred Joseph Boucher, Muskegon,
Michigan; John William Costello, Kewana, Indiana;
Harry Walter Cullen, Detroit, Michigan; Patrick
Plenry Cunning, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania; John Prancis
Devine, Jr., Chicago, Illinois; Hugh James Daly,
Chicago, Illinois; William Arthur Pish, Boston, Mas-
sachusetts; Charles Aloysius Hagerty, South Bend,
Indiana; Donald Munson Hamilton, Columbus, Ohio;
Joseph Bernard McGlynn, Bast St. Louis, Illinois;
Robert Arthur Milroy, Aurora, Illinois; Prancis Bernard
McBride, Pittsburg, Pennsylvania; Chester Martin
McGrath, Blk Point, South Dakota; John Patrick
Murphy, Westboro, Massachusetts; James Daniel Nolan,
Marietta, Ohio; Marcellus Matthew Oshe, Zanesville,
Ohio; John Bimer Peak, South Bend, Indiana; Thomas
Daniel Quigley, Chicago, Illinois; Bdmond Henry
Savord, Sandusky, Ohio.
Thf Dfgrff of Graduate in Pharmacy was con-
ferred on: William Gaston Hintz, South Bend, Indiana;
Bronislaus Joseph Janowski, South Bend, Indiana;
. Theodore Joseph Lerner, South Bend, Indiana; Michael
Harvey Nolan, Marietta, Ohio; Harvey Austin Page,
Blkhart, Indiana; Joseph Peter Steppier, Highland,
Wisconsin.
Cfrtificatfs for thf Short Program in BfFc-
Trical BnginFFRING were conferred on: Bdward
Miles Bruce, St. Louis, Missouri; Carlos Amador
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
249
Gonzalez, Huanuco, Peru, South America; Alfred
Christian Zweck, Beaver Dam, Wisconsin.
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechan-
icad Engineering were conferred on: Eernando
Luis Mendez, Cartagena, Colombia, South America;
Miguel Gurza, Durango, Mexico; Jose M. Mendoza,
Chihuahua, Mexico; Philip J. Phillips, Chicago, Illinois.
PRIZE MEDALS
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best
.record in the Classical Program, Senior year, and a
money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of Mr. Henry
Quan, in memory of his deceased father, was awarded
to Patrick Arthur Barry, Bellows Rails, Vermont.
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by Mr.
Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the class of ’77,
for the best record for four years in the Civil Engineer-
ing program, was awarded to Jose Bracho, Durango,
Mexico.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by
Honorable William P. Breen, of the class of "77, was
awarded to William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by
Honorable P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
William Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
Seventy-five Dollars for Debating work was awarded
as follows: ■ Thirty dollars to Simon Ercile Twining,
Bowling Green, Ohio; twenty-five dollars to Emmett
George Lenihan, Clarion, Iowa; twenty dollars to
William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented
250
BUIXEZHN OF TH#
by Mr. James V. O’Donnell, the class of ’89, was awarded
to Simon Brcile Twining, Bowling Green, Ohio.
Ten Dollars in gold for Sophomore Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the class of ’91, was
awarded to Stanislaus Brancis Milanowski, Chicago,
Illinois.
Ten dollars in Gold for Breshman Oratory, presented
by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the class of ’91, was awarded
to Emmett George Lenihan, Clarion, Iowa.
0
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, Birst Course,
was awarded to Leo Joseph Vogel, McKeesport, Pa.
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, Second
Course, was awarded to John Joseph Maltby, Chicago,
Illinois.
The Mason Medal, donated by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, to the student in the Preparatory School
whose scholastic record has been the best during the
school year, was conferred on John Conrad Wittenberg,
Pineville, West Virginia.
The Joseph A. Lyons Gold Medal for Elocution was
awarded to Joseph W. Adriansen, DePere, Wisconsin.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preparatory Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell of the class of ’04,
was awarded to Jeremiah Joseph Haggerty, Boston,
Massachusetts.
The O’Brien Gold Medal for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence A. O’Brien,
of Chicago, was awarded to 'Henry George Gluckert,
South Bend, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
251
Commercial Diploma was awarded to Roy Henry
Jones, Silver City, New Mexico.
Certificates in Bookkeeping were awarded to Arnold
Tobias Krebs, Hamilton, Ohio; Edward Brancis Bar-
rett, Minneapolis. Minnesota.
Certificate in Phonography was awarded to Ernest
William Studer, Chillicothe, Ohio.
Preparatory Certificates for sixteen or more units
of work were awarded to: Joseph Willebrod Adriansen,
DePere, Wisconsin; Edward Brancis Brucker, Toledo,
Ohio; Thomas Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois; Brancis
Holgate Boos, Battle Creek, Michigan; Sylvester
Jerome Burkhard, Ozark, Ohio; William Joseph Bens-
berg, St. Louis, Missouri; William Christopher Casey,
Chattanooga, Tennessee; Joseph Edward Ciprian, De-
troit, Michigan; Clarence Joseph Currie, Pontiac,
Michigan; John Bert Denny, Jr., Johnston, Penn-
sylvania; Murty Michael Bahey, Toluca, Illinois; Henry
George Gluckert, South Bend, Indiana; Harry Bernard
Jones, Vulcan, - Michigan; George Maurice Lucas,
South Bend, Indiana; Gerald Joseph McGladigan,
Swissville, Pennsylvania; George Nolan McCoy, Mil-
waukee, Wisconsin; Hugo Monnig, Jr., Jefferson City,
Missouri; Charles Hughes Mann, Blint, Michigan;
Joseph Charles Peurrung, Cincinnati, Ohio; Carroll
William Sax, South Chicago, Illinois; Paul Anthony
Schmitt, Cincinnati, Ohio; Thomas Belon Shea, Bart-
lesville, Oklahoma; Hubert Pancratius Weidner, Chi-
cago, Illinois; Guy Brancis Marshall, Rock Island,
Illinois.
252
BULLETIN OB THE
INDEX
Administration Building, Christian Doctrine,
The. .....................12	Courses in.....128, 198
Admission to the Colleges, Church, The................;. 12
19, 60, 84, 94, 104 Civil Engineering, The
Advanced Standing... 20, 103	Department of....... 71
Alumni Association Offi- Civil Engineering, Courses
cers.....................242	in..  ..........129
Anatomy, Courses in.. 50, 113 Civil Governm’t, Courses
Architecture, The College	in..................198
of.. ................ 93	Classics, The Department
. Architecture, Courses in..ii3	of.................. 42
Arts and Letters, The Col- Com^gks :
lege of.................. 39	College of Arts and
Astronomy, Courses in.. . .119 Letters.................. 39
Athletics.............17,	31 College of Architecture. 93
Bachelor’s Degrees....... 22	College of. Engineering.. 68
Bacteriology, Course in... 120	College of Law.103
Biology, Program in. .... 59	College of Science  49
Biological Laboratories... 49	Commercial High School.. 209
Board of Trustees........ 4	Commencement, i..........246
Board and Lodging.. . .35, 216	Concerts and Lectures. ... 33
Botany, Course in........ 121	Corby Hall............... 15
Botanical Laboratories... 50	Courses of Instruction 113, 198
Breen Medal............... 28	Debating Prize........... 29
Brownson Hall............. 16	Degrees...............22,	246
Buildings.............12,	18 Directory of the University 2
Calendar.................. 3 Directors of Halls......... 10
Carroll Scholarship...... 26 Discipline................. 29
Carroll Hall............   16	Doctor of Philosophy,
Charter................... 11	The Degree of....... 24
Chemical Engineering,	Dormitories...........15,	16
The Department of.. 86 Drawing, Courses in. . 137,
Chemical Laboratories. . 14, 52	140, 198
Chemistry, The Depart- Economics, The Depart-
ment of.................. 59	ment of.......... 42
Chemistry, Courses in.... 123 Economics, Courses in.... 181
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
253
Elocution, Courses in....146
Elocution Medals......... 28
Electrical Engineering,
The Department of.. 79
Electrical Engineering,
Courses in...........143
Engineering, The College
of................... 68
English, Courses in. ..148, 199
Entrance Requirement..
21, 41, 56, 60,	103
Executive Officers..... 5
Expenses.........35,	36, 216
Faculty..............6,190
Ford Scholarship......... 26
French, Courses in.. 185,
187, 200
Geology, Courses in......149
German, Courses in. .151, 202
Graduate Courses.. .. 121,
148, 154, 156, 161, 177, 184
Grammar School...........212
Greek, Courses in.152, 202
Gymnasium............ 17
History and Economics,
The Department of.. 42
History, Courses in.. 154, 203
Historical Sketch of the
U niversity........... 11
Honors and Prizes.....27, 249
Hospital.................. 17
Infirmary................. 17
Instruction, System of. 18, 105
Instructors in the Prepar-
atory School..........190
Italian, Courses in.......186
Johnson Scholarship....... 26
Journalism, The Depart-
ment of.............. 46
Journalism, The Course in 156
Laboratories.........49,
50, 52, 53, 78
Laboratory Fees. .57, 69, 193
Latin, Courses in...157, 204
Law, The College of.....103
Law, Courses in.........109
Lectures and Concerts.... 33
Letters, The Department
of.................. 39
Library, The Main....... 12
Libraries, Department..
40, 49, 52, 61, 78, 107
List of Students........222
Lodging, Board and..35, 216
Local Clubs.............243
Mason Medal............. 27
Master’s Degrees........ 23
Mathematics, Courses in
158, 204
Meehan Medal............ 27
Mechanical Engineering,
The Department of.. 73
Mechanical Engineering,
Courses in..........161
Metallurgy, Courses in.,... 166
Microscopy, Courses in.... 169
Military................218
Minims, The School for.. .213
Mining Engineering, The
Department of....... 84
Mining Engineering,
Course in...........168
Museum.................. 13
Music Hall.............. 13
Music, Courses in......... 169
Observatory............. 15
Officers of the University.. 5
Oratory, Courses in.....146
Pharmacy, The Depart-
. ment- of.......... 60
Pharmacy, Courses in. . . .172
Philosophy, Courses in... 175
Physical Laboratories... 53
Physics, Courses in.....177
254	bulletin of the, etc.
Physiology, Courses in.... 179 Science, Program of
Political Science, Courses	General.............. 59
in..................181	Science, Courses in Ele-
Politics, Courses in.....183 mentary......................206
Portuguese, Courses, in... 187 Short Programs, in:
Preparatory School.......193	Architecture............ 99
Prizes................27, 249	Electrical Engineering.. 83
Professors............6, 190	Mechanical Engineering 78
Program of Studies....... Shops, The...................... 14
44,	45,	46,	47,	62,	Shopwork,	Courses	in.... 165
63,	64,	65,	66,	87,	Sociology,	Course's	in....183
88,	89,	90,	91,	92,	Societies................. 34
too, 101, 102, 194,	Sorin Hall................ 15
195, 196, x97> 210	Spanish, Courses	in.......186
Provencal, Courses in.... 187 Special Students........25, 104
Psychology, Courses in... 175	St. Joseph Hall........... 17
Psychological Laboratory. 39	System of Instruction. ... 18
Quan Medal................. 27	Title (Legal) of the Uni-
Regulations Governing	versity.............. 11
Admission to the	Theatre, The University.. 13
Colleges.............. 19	Trustees, Board of......... 4
Romance Languages,	Tuition Fees..........35,	216
Courses in............184	Walsh Hall................ 15
Scholarships............... 25	Washington Hall........... 13
Science Hall............... 13	Zoology, Courses	in......187
Science, The College of... 49


CO
. It is desired that every graduate receive a ;copy
of the Bulletin. The Faculty will therefore con-
sider it a favor to be notified in case an Alumnu
changes his address. '	'	. \
On application to the President, bulletins will
be sent to all who are interested in the work of the
University. ’,	• '	'	' . ■	\	; . /