Series VIII.
Number II.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
ENGINEERING NUMBER
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
OCTOBER, 1912
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, 1905
2
BULLETIN or TH#
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
NOTR# DAM#, INDIANA.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hat# in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is 41 degrees, 43
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable
for a healthful climate where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great fatigue or
danger to health.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
3
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.',
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCEEEOR.
rev. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
Rev. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Bro. ALBEUS, C. S. C.,
4
bulletin of the
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF -THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Bg it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body, corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
cosier and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as is customary in other
universities in the United States.”
6
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-
halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-
rooms are in this building. The Library and the
Bishops5 Memorial Hall are also here temporarily.
This building, like all the others of the University,
is lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by steam.
The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
in ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 60,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
department of literary criticism, history, political
science and the Greek and Latin classics are well rep-
resented. Special libraries containing reference works
on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science. The College of Law has
a complete library of its own. Ample reading room
is provided in the main library. The best literary
magazines and reviews, as well as current numbers
of scientific and technical journals are kept on file.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
7
Students have access to the library from 8:oo A. M.
to 9:00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width,
and about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms
of the Department of Music, the reading rooms for
Brownson and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre.
The theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings.
It will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent
in public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also pre-
sented in this theatre. The dramatic clubs of the
University present several plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall.
Its dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three
stories in height. A large central space, the full height
of the building, is occupied by a museum contain-
ing mineral, fossil and biological specimens. The
departments of Physics, Civil Engineering, Philosophy,
Botany and Biology have recitation rooms and labo-
ratories in this building. The equipment for each of
these departments is extensive and complete. De-
scription of the equipment will be found later in this
catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is
well arranged for convenience of study. The sociological
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative ver-
8
BULLETIN OB THE
tebrate skeletons forms a considerable part of the
museum.
Facilities for the publication of research on subjects
of natural history are afforded in the pages of the
American Midland Naturalist, which appears bi-monthly
from the laboratory of botany at the University.
The collection in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a
series of cases on each side of the building. In one
series is a craefully classified collection of minerals
and ores. The opposite series of cases contain a large
geological collection; some of the specimens here
are of the rarest fossil remains of animals and plant
life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture room. The second floor ,
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and
contains a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern
drug store, a lecture room and museum, a library for
pharmaceutical publications, and a general stock-room.
The general inorganic, organic and elementary chemical
laboratories are on the third floor. Bach laboratory
is provided with ample hood accommodations, and
each desk is furnished with water, gas and suction.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop for
wood-work and also contains a well lighted drawing
UNIVERSITY OR NOTrE dame	9
room where students in designing may consult complete
workings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market. Tn this building are likewise
the dynamo laboratory, designing room and recitation
rooms of the Electrical Engineering department. *
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Lab-
oratories and is designed for an equatorial telescope
and for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial
telescope now in the building is intended for students
of astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.	’
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 191 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students
of full Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of
the Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room and
a law library. The building is lighted with electricity
and heated with steam. In the basement are recre-
ation rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with rec-
reation rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted
with electrictiy and gas and heated with steam.
WALSH HALL	'
This newest dormitory building is situated South
of Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions
IO
bulletin of the
are 230 feet by 41 feet. It faces Bast and all the
front rooms are made up of suites each consisting
of a commodious study room, flanked on either side
by a bedroom. Attached to each suite is a private
bath and toilet. Bach room is supplied with hot
and cold water. The rear rooms are singles and the
general toilet and bath rooms are of hollow, fire-proof
tile, walls and ceilings covered with wire lath and
plaster, making practically a fire proof building. It
is equipped with a distinct system of stand-pipes for
fighting fire. The entire corridor floors are built of
reinforced concrete, covered with Roman ceramic
mosaics. In finish and equipment Walsh Hall is
believed to be the best college dormitory building
in America. It embraces three stories besides the
admirable basement and attic, and it is capable of
accomodating over a hundred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of
age and upwards. There is a common study hall,
a common lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms
in which each student has an alcove curtained to secure
a personal privacy. Bxperience shows that the dis-
cipline of these common rooms works admirable effects
on students who have not yet contracted solid habits
of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Adminis-
tration Building. It is in all respects similar to Brown-
son Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted, to their
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	II
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively
to living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The
conditions for admission to this hall are: (i) The pay-
ment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the
first of August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter.
The waiting in nowise interferes with the student’s
work, and all the educational advantages are open
to him. It is to be regretted that through the lack
of endowment the University can offer only a limited
number of such opportunities each year. It is neces-
sary to apply early for these appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for
the use of students during illness. The sick are cared
for by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University
physician visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet
on -the ground. The track-hall is now 100 by 180
feet on the ground. It is used for indoor meets, winter
baseball practice, basketball and military drill. The
gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with
a full set of apparatus; below that are the offices,.
dressing rooms and shower baths. Triends of the
University and the alumni contributed more than
12
bulletin of thb
three thousand dollars to the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten
acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. K., of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University: Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall,
the Community House, the Presbytery, and Saint
Edward’s Hall, the last-named being a school for
children under the age of thirteen, in care of the Sisters
of the Holy Cross.
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his
own curriculum conformably to his natural liking,
the career in life he may have in view, or the deter-
minate intellectual bent developed during his secondary
school years; but, though he is free to elect his own
studies, he has not, however, unlimited freedom in
this respect. The principle of general election is mod-
ified. Lest the young Freshman in his inexperience
choose unwisely, he is aided in making his choice of
studies by being permitted to select from among a
number of parallel programs leading to baccalaureate
degrees. Eighteen programs are open for his choice
in the Colleges, each embracing courses which, in the
opinion of the Faculty, contribute best to cultural,
scientific or professional knowledge. These programs
are, in some ’cases, made elastic by the introduction
- UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	13
of elective courses, especially in the Junior and Senior
years. Students who wish to spend a limited time
in study and can not complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special students
and elect any course for which their preparation has
fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for preparation of recitations. One hour
of recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours
of laboratory work. .The minimum number pf credit
hours which a student must carry, except in his Senior
year, is sixteen, the maximum number which he may
ordinarily carry is twenty. Students who wish to
take more work than is indicated by the maximum
requirements must apply by formal petition- to the
Faculty for the requisite permission.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by
a properly attested certificate, of ability to enter on
the courses of the Freshman year. The specific sub-
jects required for entrance will be found later in this
catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for ad-
mission to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, the beginning of the Fall Term and in
February, the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examina-
tions in one or more of the subjects required for
admission to any college program may, at the dis-
cretion of the Faculty, be admitted to his class con-
ditioned, to make up his deficiency by extra study
14
BULLETIN OB THE
within one school year. Only when the conditions
are removed will the student be admitted to full stand-
ing in his class.
Students who have completed a four year course
in High Schools or PreparatoryJSchools of recognized
standing will be admitted without examination to
the Freshman year of any program to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing
who are required to take examinations must pass,
in addition to the usual entrance examinations, an
examination in the work already done by the-classes
they desire to enter. The additional subjects may be
found in the several programs of studies described
later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present
certificates from other colleges or universities may
be received at the discretion of the Faculty with or
without examination as regards particular cases.
No students will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses' in Fvidences of Religion.
A
M
ENTRANCE REQUIREMENTS FOR VARIOUS COLLEGES IN SUBJECTS AND UNITS
COLLEGES
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
SUBJECTS	ARTS		letters*		SCIENCE	ENGINEERING	ARCHITECTURE	LAW
	Units		Units		Units	Units	Units	Units
English		J		J			J		
Eatin-		• • • • • 	 4		'1	1 4					... 2 or 4. . .
Greek				T			11	1					
French or German			o	• • • • •				o		.7	
History		o		o					o
Algebra 		T		.... I			. . . . I X • • . .		.... i X • • • •		I	
Geometry			T		T		. . . . I X. . . .	....iX- • - •	....iX- • • ■	T
Tri gon om e fry							X-...		X- ■ • ■		X- • ■ •	
Chemistry 			t			t		T	T		I		1	
Phvsics			-i-			T	T		I		
Botany, Physiology, Zoology, Physiography. . .. Drawing									
						x • • •.		X- • ■ •		X- • • •	
Elective							T	T		T	
								
Total		. . . .16					. ...16		.. . .16		. . . .16		....16	
								
* Including Departments of Letters, History and Economics and Journalism.
t Lour units of Language required. J Lor admission to the College of Arts and Letters and Law one unit of Science is required.
16
bulletin ok the
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by
the University will be found described in this cat-
alogue. Written theses and formal examinations are
demanded of all candidates for degrees. One full
scholastic year of resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through-
out the four scholastic years. In the College of Arts
and Letters one of four degrees is conferred on an
undergraduate—Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of
Letters (Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.)
Bachelor of Philosophy in Journalism (Ph. B. in Jour.)—
dependent on the special program of studies the can-
didate selects. The College of Science offers six de-
grees for choice to undergraduates—Bachelor of Science
(B. S.), Bachelor of Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.),
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Bachelor
of Science in Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.), Graduate in
Pharmacy (Ph. G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist (Ph. C.).
The College of Engineering offers five degrees—Civil
Engineer (C. E-), Mechanical Engineer (M. E-), Elec-
trical Engineer (E. E-), Mining Engineer (E- M.),
and Chemical Engineer (Ch. E-). Two degrees are
offered by the College of Architecture—Bachelor of
Science in Architecture (B. S. A.), and Bachelor of
Science in Architectural Engineering (B. S. A. E.).
The College of Law offers the degree of Bachelor of
Laws (LL. B.). In the College of Music one degree
is offered—Bashelor of Music (B. M.). In order to
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
17
obtain this degree the candidate must have studied
music in the University for one complete year. He
must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of four
instruments mentioned in the courses described later,
and a practical mastery of one of them. He shall
pass* a written examination in harmony, counter-
point and composition, and he must submit to the
examiner two original compositions: (a) a fugue for
full orchestra, or for four voices with independent
orchestral accompaniment: (b) a composition in the
free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte, or. a trio
(pianoforte, violin and violincello.\
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one
complete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who
make application to the Committee of 'the Faculty
on Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing ad-
vanced work. All work must be approved by this
Committee. One year of residence, at least, is re-
quired of candidates who have received their Bachelor’s
degree at another college. Those who have received
their Bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in
some cases to be determined by the Committee, obtain
the Master’s degree for work done in absentia* One
major and one or two minor courses will constitute
the curriculum, forming a consistent coordinated
plan of advanced work pursued with some definite
aim. On competion of the required work the candidate
* No degree is conferred in honor em except the degree of
Doctor of Daws (EE. D.)
18
BULLETIN OF THE
must pass a satisfactory examination in writing, under
the professors who give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a dis-
sertation of notable merit on some topic connected
with his major subject, the thesis to contain in the
minimum five thousand words. The subject of the
thesis must be announced to the Committee by December
i, and submitted for examination by May 15. Dive
printed or typewritten copies of the thesis must be
presented to the University to be placed in the library.
The fee for examination of work done in absentia is
twenty-five dollars. The fee for this degree is fixed
at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity work before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these must be spent at Notre Dame
and one may be passed at some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactorily ex-
aminations in Drench and German on entrance. The
work for the degree shall consist of one major and two
minor courses of instruction approved by the Committee.
Research study shall form the most important part
of. the candidate’s work. On completion of his work
the candidates must pass minute examinations on the
three subjects of his curriculum and must defend his
dissertation before the whole Daculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies
presented to the University. A copy of the thesis
must be handed to’ the Committee one month before
the examinations. The degree will not be conferred
for merely faithful work, and not for miscellaneous
study, but for original research and for high attain-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
19
ment in one branch of study. The fee for this degree
is fixed at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates
for a degree by following the prescribed courses of
any program may register as special students and
attend any of the courses of instruction for which
their previous academic training has fitted them.
Such special students are governed by the same regu-
lations and discipline as the other undergraduates.
They are required to pass the same examinations in
the courses they pursue as the other students. In
exceptional cases men of mature age, who have been
out of school or college for several years, but whose
training in practical affairs has been sufficiently educa-
tive, will be accepted as special students by satisfying
the Faculty of their ability to pursue with profit any
course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may
receive on application certificates stating their pro-
ficiency in the courses they have pursued.
THE MARTIN J. McCUE MEDAL FOR
CIVIL ENGINEERING
The McCue Medal for Civil Engineering, presented
by Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the Class
of '87, is awarded to the student of the Department of
Civil Engineering who has obtained the best record in
all the courses prescribed in the program. The medal is
awarded only when the student’s record has attained a
fixed standard. In computing the grades the courses in
mathematics count fifty per cent. Only students
who have been in residence for four full years are
eligible to compete for this prize.
20	BULLETIN or TH$
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class- standing-
will be sent to parents and guardians quarterly.
The Faculty maintains that an education which
gives little attention to the development of the moral
part of a youth’s character is pernicious, and that
it is impossible to bring about this development where
students are granted absolute relaxation from all
Faculty government while outside the class-room.
A young man must learn obedience to law by the actual
practice of obedience. Here students are required
to obtain permission for any departure from the regular
daily routine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are inforced at the. University.
i.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.	.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Faster.
3.	Students are required to report at the Uni-
versity immediately after arriving at South Bend.
This rule is binding not only at the beginning of the
scholastic year, but at all other times when leave of
absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in
South Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of
rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating
in examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, im-
morality, the use of profance and obscene language,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
21
and an unauthorized absence from the University
limits are among the causes for expulsion. In case
of suspension or expulsion for such offences, no fee
shall be returned.
5.	The use of cigarettes is strictly forbidden, a
second offence being punished by suspension for one
month.
6.	No branch of study shall be taken up or dis-
continued without the consent of the Director of
Studies,
a
7.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brown-
son, Carroll or St. Bdward’s Hall according to age;
boys seventeen years of age or older are placed in
Brownson Hall; those over thirteen and under seven-
teen, in Carroll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St.
Bdward's Hall.
8.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls
as have received from their parents written permission
to use tobacco.
9.	Continued violation of regulations , in Sorin,
Corby or Walsh Halls leads to suspension.
10.	Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
Catholic institution, and all students are required
to attend divine service in the University Church at
stated times.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense
of study will not be permitted; but students are ex-
pected to take part in outdoor sports.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is per- %
mitted with college orgaizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
of professionalism.
22
BULLETIN oe the
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members
of the Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve
the right of a final decision on all questions concern-
ing athletics. The Faculty Board will determine
the amateur standing of the members of the athletic
teams and apportion the finances. By this means
indiscreet and unconsidered action ’ of students will
be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have ad-
dressed the University in the past few years may
be noted five Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli,
Martinelli and Falconio, Monsignors Agius and Bon-
zano; Cardinal Farley; Arch-bishops Ireland, Riordan,
Keane, Glennon, Christie and Spalding; and Bishops
Alerding, McQuaid, Maes, Muldoon, O'Gorman, Shanley
Hickey, Hanna and MacSherry. There were also
such noted Buropean churchmen as the Abbe Felix
Klein, Bishop John S. Vaughan and the foremost
of living Bnglish historians, Dom Gasquet; also men
of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford, Marion Crawford,
Maurice Francis Bgan, Henry Van Dyke, Seumas
MacManus, William Butler Yeats, James Jeffrey Roche,
Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read, Leland Powers,
Henry James and the Rev. John Talbot Smith; and
such men of affairs as President Taft, ex-Vice-Pres-
ident Fairbanks, ex-Senator Hill, ex-Senator Beveridge,
ex-Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, ex-
Representatives J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William
P. Breen, Representative Bourke Cochran, Dr. James
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
23
C. Monaghan, Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward
McDermott, His Excellency Wu ting Dang, William
Jennings Bryan, Senator B. F. Shively, Max Pam,
Governor J. Harmon, Hannis Taylor and Chief-Justice
Fitzpatrick of Canada.
Concerts are given frequently by organizations from
without.
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies
in the University which do such creditable work at
their meetings and in preparation for them that their
work takes on the nature of added courses of instruction.
In each society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser.
An Inter-Hall Teague has been formed and public
debates are held annually. The College of Faw also
has an active debating club. The training in public
speaking has always received special attention at
the University. In ninenteen public debates with other
universities and colleges Notre Dame has but once
met defeat—the decision of the judges in the greater
number of these debates being unanimous. The Uni-
versity Dramatic Club and the Philopatrian Society
stage at least three plays annually for presentation in
public. The University Band, the University Orchestra
and the University Glee Club also appear regularly
in concerts.
Students of the Department of Civil and Electrical
Engineering have each a society in which papers on
engineering subjects are read and discussed. Men
prominent in their profession are invited to lecture
to these societies. The Pharmaceutical Society meets
to discuss subjects of interest in the world of pharmacy.
In other departments where no such formal organ-
izations has been effected similar results are reached
by seminars.
24
bulletin of the
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).........$ 10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linen, per school year.................. 400.00
PAYABLE ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)...........$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition................... 250.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the
year.............................................. 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course. . . .	5.00
Spending money or orders for clothing will not be given
students unless a deposit has been made for this purpose.
In this First Payment must also be included any Extra
Expense the student may wish to incur, such as charges for
Private Room or Special Courses (listed below).
PAYABLE ON JANUARY 15
Balance on Board and Tuition........................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time of absence at the opening
of the Terms, September and February. The charge of $400.00
covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic
Year. The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for Tuition
during the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole
or part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the
fundamental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby
brought to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving
and absenting himself from the University at any time or for
any cause without proper permission. However, an exception
is made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home
because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not be
conferred on any student whose account with the University
has not been settled.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
25
OPTIONAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE
For the Scholastic Year:
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free, but a nominal
charge of $15.00 is made to defray expenses connected
with the care of rooms; Freshmen.. . .$50.00 and upwards.
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made
only to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions;
that is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the
Preparatory and Freshman work, otherwise regular rent will
be charged for rooms. Similarly, only unconditioned Fresh-
men are allowed the special rate quoted above.
Preparatory Students...........$80.00 and upwards.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular courses of the programs they have entered,
any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Scholastic Year, payable in advance. The charges are pro
rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
On Piano and use of Instru-	Cornet, Clarinet or Man-
ment................$60.00	dolin.............. 30.00
Use of Piano for Advanced Lessons on Violin.......... 60.00
Students.............$30.00	*Use of each instrument 5.00
Telegraphy..............25.00	Artistic Drawing......25.00
Typewriting, Full Course 20.00 Elocution, Special Course 10.00
One month............. 5.00	‘‘Scholastic”—College
Phonography.............15.00	Paper .............. 1.50
Applied Electricity.... 25.00 Library Fee............ 5.00
Vocal Culture.......... 75.00	Physical Culture......	5.00
Laboratory fees listed later in this catalogue.
GRADUATION FEE
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00; Com-
mercial Course, $5.00.
* As the string and band instruments available for rent are few, students
taking -up these studies are advised to furnish their own instruments.
26
BULLETIN OF THE
REMARKS
Term bills and other accozmts are subject to sight draft if not
paid -within ten days after they have been rendered.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory-
Fees, etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post-office money
order or express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will
be charged in all cases.
Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson and Carroll Halls are closed
during the months of July and August. Students -wishing to spend
their Summer Vacation under the care of the Uni-versity author-
ities can be accommodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jose Park is $100.00. Classes
(two hours per day) are included in this arrangement. Special
tutoring at professors’ rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at
reduced rates. For conditions of entrace see paragraph en-
titled St. Joseph’s Flail,
COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
DEAN: MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S., C. E.
DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
DEAN: WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.
DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
DEAN: JEROME JOSEPH GREEN, M. E. E. E.
J
DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
DEAN: KNOWLES B. SMITH, E. M.
DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL ENGINEERING
DEAN: JOSEPH A. MAGUIRE, C. S. C., M. S.
i
28
BUUJSTIN OF THF
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the
engineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the five departments of
engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that
are applied in engineering work. Mathematics is fore-
most among these requirements. The natural sciences
receive their share of attention and due importance
is given to language in arranging the programs of
studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to
correspond as closely as possible to the real work of
the engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master -
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are
acquired by applying the results of mathematical
calculations to particular practical cases in laboratory
work.
Five regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, one to the degree of
Electrical Engineer, on to the degree of Engineer of
Mines, and one to the degree of Chemical Engineer.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
Engineering are offered to accommodate those who wish
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	29
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest
possible time.
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department will be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works
in the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufactur-
ing plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one
to two hours’ preparation. Two hours actual time in
laboratory work, shopwork or drawing is required
for each hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page —, the regular
students in the five Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appara-
tus used.
LABORATORY FEE
Assaying II.........................................$15	.00
Chemistry 1........................................ 5-°°
Chemistry II...................................... 15-00
Chemistry III, VI, VIII, Xlb, XIc, XIII, XIV, XV, each 10.00
Chemistry V.......................................... 20.00
Chrystallography IV................................... 2.00
Electrical Laboratory I,-II and IV, each............. 15.00
Gas Engine Laboratory................................ 10.00
Mechanical Laboratory................................. 5.00
Metallurgy 1.......................................... 5-°o
30
BULLETIN of the
Mineralogy II, Sophomore Year...................... 10.00
Mineralogy II, Junior Year.......................... 5-°°
Mineralogy III...................................... 5-°°
Petrography V......................................  5-°°
Physical Laboratory I and III, each................. 5-°°
Physical Laboratory IV............................. i5-°°
Shopwork, all four-year programs, per term......... i5-°°
Surveying III, V, VIII, each........................ 5-°°
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Algebra. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
Geometry. Plane and Solid, including the solution
• of simple problems and numerical examples, as given
in the works of W entworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or an
equivalent in treatises by other authors.
Trigonometry. Plane and Spherical.
Civics. The Constitution of the United States;
Federal Government and State Government.
History. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval and
Modern History.
Geography. Physical, as much as is contained in
Tarr's text-book or an equivalent treatise.
Physics. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments and recitations from a text-book like
Carhart and Chute's, or Gage's. Laboratory work required.
Chemistry. The elements of Chemistry. Laboratory
work required.
Botany, Physiology, and Zoology. Elementary.
Modern Language. Engineering students must
present a three years’ course in German, French or
Spanish.
English. Part of the examination time is given for
answering questions upon text-books and readings
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
31
required in the preparatory courses in English; the re-
mainder for writing an essay.
Subjects required for entrance to Ereshman year:
English..................4
Mathematics.............3%
Science..................2
History..................2
French or German.........3
(Chemistry and Physics)
Drawing..................X
Elective................1
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING Jg
The course of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession,
either in the office or in some of the responsible positions
superintending the construction and operation of public
works. To secure these results the student is given,
not only a sound theoretical training in the courses of
study, but he is also required to study the practical
applications of the principles upon which the theory
is based. The first two years are devoted to the study
of mathematics and the theoretical branches. The last
two years are given to the study of applied courses—■
practical work in the laboratory and field, as much as
possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects.
Instruction based upon standard text-books on engineer-
ing is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class-
32	bulletin of the
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening
his interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists of
surveyor’s transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with all
the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, leveling
rods, etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine.
After the student is taught the use and adjustment of
the instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are
commenced and continued progressively until the more
difficult principles and methods are understood. In a
similar manner is instruction given in the courses of
sanitary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of
materials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the
student with practical engineering subjects, and the
most improved method of execution and designing. A
large draughting room offers facilities for the proper
study of all the courses in mechanical drawing and
design. The room is splendidly lighted from above, well
ventilated and contains the latest form of drawing
tables. There are suitable arrangements for blue-
printing, both by natural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West.
Some of the largest plants in the world are situated here.
One of the greatest water power developments in the
United States is located a few miles from the University.
Special advantages are thus afforded to students for the
inspection of the most modern engineering works now
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	33
‘completed or in process of construction. The City
Engineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject approved by the head of
the Department connected with the course of study, is
required fo each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original research.
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The Program of studies in Mechanical Engineering*
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and
for the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only those
capable of adapting themselves to these requirements
should take it up. The program of the department is
modeled in the two fold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials
used in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the
science of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces
the motions of connected parts without reference to the
cause of such motions, to the work done or energy
transmitted. This is succeeded by machine design, which
is a direct development of kinematics, and the course
continues throughout the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shop work are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the wood-
shop, in which the principles ofi carpentry, turning, and
34
BULLETIN OB THE
pattern-making are taught. When the students have
become sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up
the work of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine
shop. A systematic course of training is provided, which
advances the student by easy steps until he has mastered
all the details of the work.
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of the program
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show
considerable originality.
Bvery possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the
particular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas
engine design and operation. A systematic curriculum
of study will be outlined in each individual case leading
to a complete and proficient knowledge of the work
undertaken.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort
is made by the authorities to make the work as com-
prehensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop is
supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped with
the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for
turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner, an
edge moulder and shaper, a universal trimmer, circular
saw with dado and drilling attachments and band saw,
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
35
the whole forming an adequate equipment for a thor-
ough mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running the entire length of the building. The
latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five-inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed, having a
capactiy for work twenty-eight inches in diameter.
Two drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine
and a Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the
outfit, thus making the machine shop a model of its
kind. There have been completed lately in the inachine
shop seven new screw cutting lathes of fourteen-inch
swing, a high speed bench hand lathe, one twenty-
eight inch Sibley and Ware drill press, one horizontal
8x12 slide valve steam engine and a wood milling
machine. The equipment is added to regularly, and
recently a Seneca Balls lathe of fourteen inch swing
and eight foot bed, a Crown high speed lathe, a Toledo
punch press and a complete new set of chucks, drills,
taps, mandrels and lathe dogs have been installed to
meet the additional requirements of the courses. It
is the policy of this department to refrain as much as
possible from exercise work, and each student is usually
taking part in the construction of some new machine
or engaged on general repair work for the University,
a plan which is regarded superior to a fixed routine of
exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool-making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
BULLETIN OF ThF
36
*
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is* used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops,
the engineering students have access to the steam and
power plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the
best contemporary practice. The main steam plant
contains two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers,
aggregating 1200 horse power. In connection with the
boilers is installed the necessary testing apparatus as
follows: a Worthington hot water meter for measur-
ing the amount of feed water, a feed water thermometer
for getting temperature of. same, a high range ther-
mometer for temperature of generated steam, a throttling
calorimeter for ascertaining the quality of steam and
an automatic recording pressure gauge giving a con-
tinuous record of the boiler pressure. Provision is made
for finding the temperature and pressure of the flue
gases by means of a pyrometer and draught gauge and
for obtaining samples of flue gas for analysis with
Fisher’s analysis apparatus. These, with a Carpenter
coal calorimeter for determining the heating value of
fuel, comprise a full and complete equipment for giving
the student an intimate knowledge of the practical part
of boiler management and testing. A Webster feed
water and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the heating system, two
large Worthington fire pumps 16x9 by 12 with a capactiy
of 1500 gallons per minute, with numerous separators,
steam traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete,
the apparatus in the main steamplant. A McBwen
high speed automatic engine, an Armington and Sims
engine of smaller type and several low speed horizontal
A
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
37
engines with polar and roller planimeters, indicators,
reducing wheels, slide rules and other necessary instru-
ments, are used in studying the operation of the steam
engine, distribution and economy of steam, regulation,
valve setting and heat wastes.
There have been recently donated to the mechanical
laboratory about four hundred brass and iron fittings
used in steam and gas engineering, including feed water
injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups, safety valyes,
relief valves, different varieties of globe valves, gate
valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bushings and
reducers. Many of these have been sectioned to show
the dimensious, and facilitate a study of the internal
structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four cycle engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse power two-cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse power horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with circulating pump and cooling
tower, one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil,
one Apple ignition dynamo with storage battery, two
Hendricks automatic igniters together with carburettors,
spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary
equipment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston
carburettor and muffler, a National storage battery,
Pittsfield induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard
magnetos with brass armored spark coils, one four
engine cylinder distributor and a number of improved
standard and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated by alcohol has been placed in the machine
38
bulletin oe the;
shop, and the work of designing and building the
engine will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering
topics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete
line of trade catalogues.
TWO-YEAR PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil
and Vapor Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, in theory, design, construction and
operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a
general descriptive study of the different types of
engines with discussions on the general management,
operations, care and special uses to which this type
of motor may be applied. During the second year the
general theory of the gas engine is studied and the
design of an engine for specific purposes is undertaken
by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermodyna-
mic efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. To
these are added studies in various kinds of ignition,
operation of vaporizers and carburettors and practical
management of internal combustion engines. A con-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	39
sider able part of the work will consist of the complete
adjustment and successful operation on the test-block,
under varying loads of the engine built by the student.
Experiments in flame, electric and hot tube ignition,
operation of vaporizers and carburettors, construction
of spark coils and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room
by the complete building and testing of a gas engine
of a design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each
student is required to prepare the patterns and core
boxes, machine the castings and forgings, assemble the
complete engine and submit a comprehensive report of
a test on the machine constructed. If the report proves
satisfactory a certificate of proficiency is given to the
student and the gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student should
have completed courses XI Va and XI Vb in shop work
and must certify by examination or certificate evidence
of a knowledge of algebra as far as logarithms, plane
geometry, and his further ability to pursue the studies
of the first year. In case a student has not had this
preparatory work, he may, with special effort complete it
in addition to the regular work of the course. Candidates
shall also write a short essay, which must be satisfactory
in spelling, sentence and paragraph construction.
THE DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
in \the program of Electrical Engineering is intended
40
BUM/MTIN 01? THB
to give a general education as well as a special training
in the technical branches involved in the various prac-
tical applications of electricity in industrial operations.'
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard text-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class-room are performed
by the student, in doing which he acquired skill in hand-
ling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records
of the work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at the
end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
centre in the growth of which electricity is taking a
very prominent part. Electric power generated by
steam is now being distributed and utilized in several
large plants, some using the three phase alternating
system, while others are using the direct current.
Several of the largest water power developments in
the Middle West are situated within a few miles of the
University. From this system we receive three phase
alternating currents which furnish light for our buildings
and grounds, and power for driving motors in our
shops and printing office, etc., all of which are operated
by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by,water power within
a short distance. Our students visit these plants accom-
panied by an instructor who points out the applications
of the text-book theory in the design of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working
conditions.
Each candidate for graduation must present at the
end of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying
the results of an extended original research on an
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
41
engineering subject, chosen at the beginning of the
year, with the approval of the head of the department.
The descriptive part must be typewritten, and bound
in book form together with the drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows: An A. C. induction motor arranged to
operate on single phase circuits with a condenser com-
pensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K. W. com-
posite wound Wood alternator of the latest type with
exiccater and a full set of switchboard instruments,
several transformers of different capactiy, a high tension
transformer for testing insulation, an Edison bipolar
10 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-Houston arc
light machine with regulator and fifteen lamps, a Wood
arc - machine, capacity 25 lights, an Edison bipolar,
3 K. W. 125 V. dynamo with special winding, a Van
Depoele compound wound dynamo, a special A. C.
5 H. P. dynamo or rotary converter, a series wound
dynamo with wrought iron field, number of small
motors, a 10 H. P. induction motor, three phase, 220
volts. 60 cycles, a motor generator set consistory of
an adjustable speed 8 H. P., D. C. motor, direct con-
nected to a special multiphase, revolving field A. C.
dynamo.
A three K. W. three phase rotary converter, an eight
K. W. rotary converter, a set of inclined coil alternating
current portable instruments, voltmeter, ammeter and
wattmeter, telegraph relays, sounders, switchboard, etc.,
telephone apparatus including subscribers sets of various
modern types, a fifty drop manual switchboard complete
and a lot of separate drops, jacks, switches, lighting
arresters, etc., automatic telephone switchboard con-
taining first and second selector and connector switches.
42
BULLETIN OB THE
interrupter heat coils, etc., and three subscribers sets—
with this apparatus all the operations involved in the
operation of a 10,000 system may be • performed, a
complete central energy switchboard, several lines and
subscribers sets and a selective signaling four party
line outfit, a collection of historical sets including
Reis’ transmitter and receiver, a standard portable
bridge, a common portable bridge, a testing battery,
a power or foot lathe with wood turning tools, drills
and hand tools for metals, a set of tools for metal work-
ing, a calibrating .lamp rack, a D’Arsonval and common
galvanometers, Ballistic galvanometer, standard con-
denser, etc., for capactiy work, resistance boxes,
standard meghoms, etc., high resistance Thompson
galvanometer, standard cells, voltmeter arranged for
the comparison of incandescent lamps, a plug switch-
board controlling all circuits, a plating dynamo and a
buffer for cleaning and polishing work to be plated,
solution tank, etc.,—in all, a complete ourfit for elec-
trotype work, a hot wire ammeter, twelve ammeters
and voltmeters mostly of the Weston type for direct
current measurements, a Kohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery resistance, etc., a lot of arc lamps series
and constant potential, open and enclosed arcs. Watt-
meters of various types, a collection of motor starting
rheostats, several sets of parts of incandescent lamps
showing the various stages in their manufacture, a
large collection of porcelain insulators used in electrical
work including a lot of insulators for high tension
transmission lines, a lot of armature core disks, trans-
former core stampings, dynamo -frames, formed coils,
brush holders, pole pieces, samples of insulation, com-
mutator segments, etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading, manufacturers of electrical
machinery, a case of marked samples of wire insulators,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
43
lamps and other construction materials, a library of
practical books of reference and files of leading period-
icals and trade publications, a Cooper Hewitt mercury
vapor lamp, a high frequency Telsa coil and condenser,
a working model of the induction motor, an armature
winding model mounted to rotate in bipolar and multi-
polar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with universal
switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An absolute
electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for illus-
trating static phenomena, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 tb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of
the modern machine from the early form of the recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types, a
complete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy. For further apparatus consult pages 53,
54 and 55 of the general catalogue.
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shopwork,
the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages 58, 71 and 87.
SHORT PROGRAM FOR APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short program, which
may be completed in two years. The studies are arranged •
to give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental
theories of electricity and magnetism, as well as a
certain amount of skill in handling electrical machinery
and appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and
elementary physics are included, for they are necessary
44
BUW3TIN of ThA
in order to carry on successfully the practical work
of designing, manufacturing and testing or operating
electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work is
given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and in
the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power
are learned by testing, repairing and making additions
to the University plant, and by visiting the numerous
electric establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by
an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as logarithms
and plane geometry. They shall also write a short
essay which must be satisfactory in spelling, punctua-
tion, sentence and paragraph construction.
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
The wonderful growth and expansion of the mining
industry, not only in this country but in Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America, has created a constant demand
for trained men who have a thoroughly practical as
well as theoretical knowldege of mining operations.
' The aim of this department is to give the student
sufficient training in the various technical branches of
mining to enable him to project and successfully carry
through a mining enterprise.
The course of studies leading to the degree of Mining
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	45
Engineer includes the essential subjects of Mechanical
Engineering, particularly those which have special
prominence in mining work; for the economical oper-
ation of any mine depends to a great extent upon the
judicious selection and proper operation of the machinery
in the power plant, mill and smelter. Likewise the
subjects of Civil Engineering with but few excep-
tions, are embraced in the mining course, for the reason
that many of the problems of Civil Engineering must
be solved in the laying out and directing of mining
work. Plans and surveys of the surface improvements
and underground workings of a mine are made by the
Mining Engineer.
In addition to these subjects the course includes the
following special branches: Crystallography, Mineral-
ogy, Petrography, Physical and Chemical Geology,
Economic Mining, Geology, Metallurgy, Ore Dressing,
Assaying and a thorough study of Inorganic Chemistry
in its application to mining and metallurgy.
Throughout the course the object is not only to
present clearly the theory underlying each subject,
but to fix it in the mind of the student by practical
work in the laboratory, shop, drafting room and in
trips to the mining districts where the student becomes
familiar with the practical application of the principles
laid down in the text-book and lectures.
The subject of the thesis required in this course
must be along the line of mining and consists of original
research work in one of its special branches, to be.
approved by the head of the department.
46
bulletin or1 ths
THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING
Chemical manufacture has developed so rapidly and
grown so exacting that there has arisen a demand for
men who not only can create and improve chemical
processes strictly so-called, but who can deal with the
problems of construction and maintenance as far as
they are related to the chemical industries. To prepare
young men for such work the course in Chemical Engi-
neering has been designed. The student taking up this
course is given a thorough training in chemical principles
similar to that outlined in the Course in Chemistry
except that the laboratory period is somewhat shortened.
To this training is added a certain amount of the theory
and laboratory practice in Mechanical Engineering
sufficient for the needs of chemical industries, together
with a consideration of electrical currents as used in
chemical manufacture.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	’47
t
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
President.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
History.
Rev. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C„
Geology.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
Mathematics.
Rev. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C„
Chemistry.
Rev. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
Rev. MICHAEL J. OSWALD, C. S. C.,
German.
Rev. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
Rev. FRANCISCO MARIN, O. P.,
Spanish.
Rev. ERNEST DAVIS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
Rev. WILLIAM BOLGER, C. S. C.,
Economics.
48	BULLETIN OF THF
Rev. CORNELIUS HAGERTY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
MARTIN J. McCUE, M. S. C. E.,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Mechanical Drawing.
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics and Surveying.
JEROME JOSEPH GREEN, M. E. E. E.,
Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.,
Mechanical Engineering.
KNOWLES B. SMITH, E. M.,
Mining Engineering.
JOSE ANGEL CAFARO, M. S„
Electrical Engineering and Physics.
’	THOMAS STEINER, C. E.,
Mathematics.
JOHN M. COONEY, A. M.,
English.
JESSE E. VERA, M. E. E. E.,
Mathematics and Physics.
JAMES HINES, Ph. B.,
Mathematics.
CARL EGGERT,
Shopwork.
JOHN FRIEDMAN, . ,
Assistant in Shopwork.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME • ' 49
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	80	I	Anal. Geom.	5	80	II
English.	3	77	I	English	3	77	I
French	4	93	I	French	4	93	I	-
Chemistry	4	58	III ’	Chemistry	4	58	III	.
Drawing	3	7i	I	Drawing Surveying	3 3	7i 64	II IIJH
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	81	III	Calculus	5	81	IV, V
Des. Geometry	3	63	I	Des. Geometry	3	63	I
Surveying			IV, V	R. R. Survey	5	65	VII, VII
Geodesy	J	5	64	VI	Physics	5	9i	II, III
Physics	5	91	II, III	Drawing	1	72	V
Drawing	1	72	V				
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	66	VIII	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	66	VIII
Geology	2	78	III	Materials	3	67	X
Stereotomy	2	72	VI	Geology	4	77	I
Astronomy	2	57	I	Drawing	2	73	VII
Philosophy	4	90	IV	Philosophy	4	80	IV
Pol. Science	4	93	IX	History	4	80	Hb
SENIOR YEAR
Engineering	5	68	XII	Engineering	5	68	XII
Hy dromechan.	3	70	XVI	Hydromechan.	3	70	XVI
Bridges, Roofs	5	69	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	70	XV
Sanitary Eng.	2	69	XIII	Sanitary Eng.	2	69	XIII
				Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	2 ‘	67	XI
							
BUU/ETIN of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P'ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	8o	I	Anal. Geom.	5	80	II
French.	4	93	I	French	5	93	I
Drawing	3	7i	I •	Drawing	3	71	II
Chemistry	4	58	Ill	Chemistry	4	58	III
Shop work	3	87	XlVa	Shop work	3	87	XlVb
English	3	77	I	English	3	77	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	81	III	Calculus	5	81	IV, V
Drawing	2	73	VIII	Drawing	2	73	VIII
Physics	5	9i	II, III	Physics	5	9i	II, III
Shopwork	3	87	XIVc	Shopwork	3	88	XlVd
Pol. Science	4	93	IX	History	4	80	lib
JUNIOR YEAR
An. Mechanics	5	66	VIII	Hydromechan.	2	70	XVI
Kinematics	3	84	V	Meeh’s of Mat.	3	67	-X.
Physics	2	92	IV	Mach’nDesign	2	85	VI
Shopwork	3	88	XlVe	Valve Gears	1	85	VIb
Philosophy	4	90	IV	Physics	2	92	IV
				Shopwork	3	88	XlVf
			•	Philosophy	4	90	IV
SENIOR YEAR
Materials of Engineering	2	83	II	Steam Power Plants	4	83	HI
Thermodynam.	4	82	I	Steam Boilers	3	84	IV
Steam Power				Thermodynam	4	82	I
Plants	4	83	III	Surveying	3	64	II, III
Mechan’l Eab.	2	86	VIII	Thesis			
Shopwork	3	88	XlVf				
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
51
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
first year
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’gel	Course			P’ge	Course
Geometry	5		E	Trigonometry’	5		F
Drawing	3	71	I	Drawing	3	71	II
Shop work	3	87	XIVc	Shop work	3	88	XlVd
Chemistry	5	57	I	Chemistry	5	57	I
Physics	5	91	I	Physics	5	91	I
Gas Engines	5	86	X	Vapor Engines	5	86	-X.
SECOND YEAR
Gas Engine Design	15	87	XI	Gas Engine Design	IO	87	XI
Gas Power Plants	3	85	VII	Gas Engine Laboratory	3	87	XIII
Gas Engine Construction	3	87	XII	Gas Engine Construction	3	87	XII
			■	Engines and B oilers	3	86	IX
52
bulletin of the
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB EOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	8o	I	Anal. Geom.	5	8o	II
French.	4	93	I	French	4	93	*
Drawing	3	71	I	Drawing	3	7i	II
Chemistry	4	58	III	Chemistry	4	58	III
Shopwork	3	87	XlVa	Shopwork	3	87	XlVb
English	3	77	I	English	3	77	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	8i	III	Calculus	5	81	IV, V
Des. Geometry	2	72	III	Des. Geometry	2	72	III
Physics	3	9i	XIVc	Physics	5	9*	II, III
Shop work	3	87	XlVa	Shopwork	3	87	XlVd
Pol. Science	4	93	IX	History	4	80	Hb
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	66	VIII	Hydromechan. Meeh’s of Mat. Mach’n Design	2 3 2	70 67 85	VIII VIII VI
Kinematics	3	84	V	Electrical			
Physics	2	90	IV	Measurement	1	92	V
Shopwork	3	88	XlVe	Shopwork	3	88	♦XlVf
Philosophy	4	90	IV	Calorimetry Philosophy	1 4	92 93	VI IV
SENIOR YEAR
Dynamo Machinery	4	74	III	Dynamo Mach Electrical Lab.	4 4	74 75	III IV
Thermo dynam.	5	82	I	Designing	2	75	V
Electrical Lab.	4	75	IV	Thermodynam	5	82	I
Designing Power Transmission > Electric Ry. Thesis	3 1	75 76	V VIII IX	Illuminating Engineering Thesis	1	76	XII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
53
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
first year
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEB FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5		c	Geometry	5		D
Drawing	3	7i	I	Drawing	3	7i	II
Shopwork	3	87	XlVa	Shopwork	3	87	XlVb
Physics	5	9i	I	Physics	5	91	I
Applied				Applied			
Electricity	5	73	_ I	Electricity	5	73	I
SECOND YEAR
Trigonometry Designing	5 3	75	F V	Engines and Boilers	3	86	IX
Shopwork	3	87	XIVc	Designing	3	75	V
Dynamo				Shopwork	3	88	XlVd
Machinery	5	74	III	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	74	III
Electricity	5	74	II	Applied			
				Electricity	5	74	II
54
BUEEETIN OB THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: Birst Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	8o	I	Anal. Geom.	5	80	II
Chemistry	4 -	58	III	Chemistry	4	58	III
Drawing	3	71	I	Drawing	3	71	II
Shopwork	3	87	XlVa	Shopwork	3	87	XlVb
English	3	77	I	English	3	77	I
Mining Eng.	3	90	I	Mining Eng.	3	90	I
				Surveying	3	64	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	81	III	Calculus	5	81	IV, V
Surveying i			IV, V	Adv. Survey’g	5	65	VIIVIII
Geodesy	)	4	65		Physics	5	9i	II, III
Physics	5	9i	II, III	Chemistry	3	59	V
Chemistry	3	59	V	Drawing	1	72	V
Drawing	1	72	V	History	,	4	80	lib
Pol. Science	4	93	IX				
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh.	5	66	IX	Meeh, of Mats.	3	67	X
Mineralogy	3	77	II	Hydromechan.	2	70	XVI
Drawing	2	73	VIII	Mineralogy	3	77	II
Geology	2	78	III	Drawing	2	73	VIII
Cry stall’phy	5	78	IV	Geology	4	77	I
Philosophy	4	90	IV	Chemistry	4	63	XV
				Mine Survey’g	2	90	II
				Philosophy	4	90	IV
SENIOR YEAR
Ore Dressing	3	89	IV	Assaying	5	89	II
Metallurgy	3	88	I	Economic			
Phys. Chem. & Geol.	3	78	VI	Mining Geol.	2	79	VII
Petrography	2	78	V	Graph. Static.	5	70	XV
Gas Engines	5	86	X	Petrography	2	78	V
Mat. of Engin’g	2	83	II	Eng. & Boilers	3	86	IX
Shopwork	3	88	XlVe	Thesis			
SUMMER WORK,
(To be done during the summer preceding the Senior Year.)
This course consists of actual Mining Engineering practice in the mines
of the Lake Superior district, under the direction of the head of the department.
Each student is required to make a complete, accurate underground survey
with a mining transit, connecting the mine traverse with one on surface, through
vertical and inclined shafts. A study of the different methods of mining in
several mines are made with special attention given to Geology in its relation
to economic mining; ore dressing mills and metallurgical plants are carefully
inspected to familiarize the student with the best concentrating and smelting
methods. Sixty hours a week for four weeks.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
55
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. R Wk.	SEE FOR DESCRIPTION	
		P’ge	Course			P’ge	Course
Algebra	5	8o	I	Anal. Geom.	5'	8o	II
Chemistry	4	58	III	Chemistry	4	58	III
Drawing	3	7i	I	Drawing	3	7i	II
French	4	93	I	French	4	93	I
English	3	77	I	English	3	77	I
Shopwork	3	87	XlVa	Shopwork	3	87	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	81	III	Calculus	5	81	IV, V
Physics	5	9i	II, III	Physics	5	91	II, III
Drawing	2	72	III	Drawing	2	72	III
Chemistry	4	59	V	Chemistry	4	59	V
Shopwork	3	87	XIVc	Shopwork	3	88	XlVd
Pol. Science	4	93	IX	History	4	80	Hb
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	59	VI	Chemistry	5	63	XV
Physics	2	92	IV	Physics	2	92	IV
Anal. Meeh.	5	66	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	3	67	X
Kinematics	3	84	V	Hydromechan.	2	70	XVI
Drawing	2	73	VIII	Chemistry	2	60	VIII
Philosophy	4	90	IV	Steam Boilers	3	86	IV
				Philosophy	4	90	IV
				Drawing	2	73	VIII
SENIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	61	IX	Chemistry	5	61	IX
Chemistry	3	63	XIII	Chemistry	4	61	XI
Chemistry	3	63	XIV	Chemistry	3	63	XIV
Thermodynam.	4	82	I	Thermodynam	4	82	I
Mech’l. Dab.	2	86	VIII	Thesis			X
COURSES OF INSTRUCTIONS
(In the description of the courses of instruction an hour
means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation or
lecture room and one hundred and twenty minutes in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year, or eighteen weeks.)
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	57
ASTRONOMY
Astronomy. Practical. This course is designed to
meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students
and to give them the training and information necessary
for intelligently executing certain departments of work
to which they may be assigned in the course of their
professional career. The course comprises a study of •
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of
more precision than those used in ordinary surveying.
The adjustments and use of these instruments are
considered, and instruction is given in methods of
observation and computation; problems in finding
right ascensions and declination; different methods for
finding altitude, longitude and time are studied in
detail, and the methods for finding right ascensions and
declination; different methods for finding latitude,
longitude and time are studied in detail, and the methods
of making the observation and their adjustments, and
discussion of errors. Conversion of solar time into
sidereal, and sidereal time into solar. In connection
with this subject is given a more complete study of
many of the topics considered in elementary astronomy,
as here they are treated mathematically; as for example,
methods for finding parallax, computation of eclipses,
altitudes and correction for refraction. The subjects on
procession, nutation, annual aberration, proper motion
of stars, etc., are studied. Text-books, Young, Greene,
‘ [Two hours a week for one term.]
CHEMISTRY
.1.	-
(a)	General Chemistry. A minor course dealing
with the general principles of chemistry and embracing
a study of only the commoner elements and their typical
58
bulletin OB the
compounds. Text-book, Maguire’s Elements of Chemistry
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(b)	A Laboratory Course covering in the labora-
tory the work of the Course (la.) and designed to
accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire. •
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) General Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory. A course in the fundamental principles of
the science in connection with the-consideration of the
non-metals and a somewhat detailed study of the
metals. It is intended for those students who have
made no previous study of chemistry and is equivalent
to the work done in I. and III.
[Tour periods a week for two terms.]
(&) The laboratory consists in the first term of the
preparation and study of the gases and the principles
involved in such work. In the second term metals are
taken up and considered with regard to their qualitative
separation.
pour periods a week for two terms.]
III.
(a) Advanced Inorganic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A complete study of the elements and'
their most important compounds, following the classifi-
cation based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and including a
discussion of the theories of the science. Text-book,
Alexander Smith’s College Chemistry. ■
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(b} Experimental Chemistry. A Laboratory course
to accompany Course II., the work consisting of the
preparation by the student of the elements and their
more typical compounds, determination of molecular
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
59
weights, verification of the'fundamental laws of chem-
istry, etc. During the latter part of the course, there
is taken up the study of the reactions involved in the
separation and detection of the more common inorganic
. bases and acids, the analysis of salts, mixtures of salts,
and the complex substances, such as earths, ores, ashes,
etc. Text-books, Perkin and Thorp, supplemented with
lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
(a) Qualitative Analysis. A course arranged for
the students in Pharmacy, comprising a study of the
commoner metals and acids, their reactions and separa-
tion. Text-book, Perkin.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
(5) Quantitative Analysis. Course suited to the
needs of the students in Pharmacy, comprising the
determination of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
V.
Quantitative Analysis. A laboratory study of the
principles involved in the quantitative separation and
estimation of substances, both gravimetrically and
volumetrically. Complete analysis of a number of
simple salts, like barium chloride, with partial analysis
of many complex substances. Text-book, Talbot.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
(a)	BlEmentary Organic Chemistry. Lectures and
recitations. A systematic study of the hydrocarbons
and their derivatives, and the investigation of their
60	BULLETIN OB the
properties. Special attention is given to the aliphatic
and aromatic series. Text-book, Remsen.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Experimental Organic Chemistry. A course
fitted to accompany the preceding, involving the prep-
aration by the student in the laboratory of the most
important and typical organic compounds and the
investigation of their properties. Text-book, Gatter-
man’s Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
(a)	Urine Analysis. A course of laboratory exer-
cises in the methods employed in the detection and
estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic as
well as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Toxicology. Symptoms and treatment of poi-
soning. A chemical and physical examination of the
common poisions to familiarize the student with their
properties. Attention is also given to their separation
from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Technical Chemical Analysis. Advanced courses
intended for students specializing in chemistry. Special
courses, at the option of the student, in
* i. Gas Analysis.	'
: ii. Water Analysis.
i iv. Commercial Organic Analysis.
*, v. Oils and Fats.
vi. Iron Analysis.
Text-books, Hempel, Mason, Wiley and current journals.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	61
IX.
(a)	Advanced Organic Chemistry. An advanced
course, intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Lectures, recitations and discussions of special subjects
of organic chemistry, synthetic chemistry, isomerism,
and stereochemistry. Text-books, Cohen and special
reference works.	t
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(d)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. The term
is spent principally in the making of organic prepara-
tions by methods demanding special care, skill and
accuracy in the student.
[Six to eight hours a week for two terms.]
(c)	Advanced Organic Laboratory. This term
is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,
special notes and reference work.
[Bight hours a week for one term.]
General Pharmaceutical - Chemistry. In this
course the (ghemical bases and their compounds are
considered, with special reference to their importance
in pharmacy and materia medica. Text-books, Sadt-
ler's and Trimble's Pharmaceutical' Chemistry.
XI.
(a)	Electrochemistry. Lectures and recitations
on the principles of electrochemistry and their appli-
cation in the chemical industries, separation of metals,
the preparation of chemical elements and electrosyn-
thesis of compounds. Text-book, Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
62
BULLETIN OR THE
(b)	Electrochemical Laboratory. A laboratory
course accompanying Course XI (a). Experiments
demonstrating the laws and principles of electro-
chemistry, electrolysis, electrosynthesis and electro-
metallugry. Text-book, Lupke.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(c)	Electrochemical Analysis. A laboratory
course for those who have completed (a) and (&).
Quantitative determination and separation of metals
and anions electrolytically using stationary and revol-
ving electrodes, the mercury cathode and their combina-
tions. Text-book, Smith's Electro-anaylsis.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
History or Chemistry. The subject is divided into
topics and epochs of special interest in the development
of chemistry as a science. These are discussed at length,
together with the biographies of the men who aided in
their development. Lectures and recitations. Seminar
and journal work for advanced students. Text-book,
Meyer. Reference to chemical periodicals.
[Three hours a week for one term.)
XIII.
(a)	Physical Chemistry. Lectures and recitations.
A mathematical exposition of chemical theory on the
subject of gas density, solutions, chemical dynamics, the
phase rule, thermochemistry, photo-chemistry, etc.
Text-book, Jones.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Experimental Physical Chemistry. Labo-
ratory work to accompany Course XIII (a). Vapor
density methods, calorimetric demonstrations, mole-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
cular weight demonstrations by the freezing and boiling-
point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial, Chemistry. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The consideration of chemical manu-
facture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the laboratory
of chemically pure substances, organic and inorganic.
Special reference books and journals.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
0
Advanced Quantitative. Mostly laboratory work
in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric deter-
minations of inorganic substances. Special reference-
work. [Vive hours a week for one term.]
Research Work. Special facilities are offered to
graduate students desiring to do original reaserch work
in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s
degree.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
Descriptive Geometry. In this course are con-
sidered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, double curved, and warped surfaces;
problems relating to tangent planes, to single curved,
double curved and warped surfaces; intersection of
surfaces; spherical projections; orthographic, stere-
ographic, globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
construction of maps, shades and shadows; linear per-
specitve; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises requiring
64	BUEEETIN OK THE
the application of the principles of Descriptive Goemetry,
are added by the instructor. Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Surveying. This course comprises the whole theory
of land surveying and leveling; the use and adjustment
of the transit, compass, level, and plane table; methods
of measuring; relocations of boundaries; supply omis-
sions; obstacles to measurement; computations; field
notes and plots; laying out land; parting off land;
dividing up land; public land survey. Text-book,
Breed and Hosmer.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
III.	■
Surveying. Field practice and application of theory;
adjustment and use of instruments in the field; solution
of problems in the field, the theory of which is taught
in the class room; practice in keeping field notes;
computation and plots.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Higher Surveying. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II,
and can not be taken until the completion of that
course. It treats of the adjustment, use, and care of
all kinds of engineering instruments; problems pertain-
ing to solar attachment; topographical surveying with
the transit and stadia; mining surveying, mining claims;
survey of mines with shafts and drifts; determining
positions of ends of tunnels, and depths below surface;
Hydrographic surveying which comprises a study of
she methods of making soundings and locating the
ame; the use of bench-marks, gauges, and water
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
65
levels; stream measurements, methods and instruments
used. City surveying, including a study of re-surveys,
topographic surveys, city plan, location of streets,
width of grades, field notes, indexing and records.
Text-book, Johnson.
[Four hours a week for twelve weeks.]
V.
Surveying. Exercises in the field in the adjustment
and use of engineering instruments; stadia and plane
table surveying in the fields, leveling; practice in
hydrographic surveying.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Geodesy. This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil and Mining Engineering students and comprises
a study of the instruments and methods of observation,
base measurements and field work of the triangulation;
method of least squares, elementary course; calcula-
tion of the triangulation, the theory of probable errors;
geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and azimuths. This is
followed by a brief discussion of the figure of the earth.
Text-book, Johnson.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
VII.
Raidroad Surveying. This course comprises all
the theory pertaining to reconnoissance and preliminary
surveying for a railroad; theory and maximum economy
in grades and curves; location of curves by deflection
angles and offsets; obstacles to location of curves;
special problems in curves; theory of compound curves;
turnouts and crossings; curving the rail on curves and
elevation of outer rail; easing grades on curves; vertical
curves; earthwork and prismoidal formula; theory
66
bulletin of the
of excavation and embankment; correction in excava- *
tion on curves; cross-section leveling; theory of the
transition curve and practical appplications. Text-book,
Crandall.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Railroad Surveying. Exercise in the field; staking
out and running tangents, simple, compound and tran-
sition curves; execution on the ground of many prob-
lems previously treated theoretically; survey for a short
line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work, and setting
slope stakes; making profiles and maps; calculating
the necessary excavations and embankments and cost
of construction; culverts.
—— [One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
Analytic Mechanics. The aim of this course is to
prepare students of engineering for the study of the
courses of applied mechanics. The course comprises
a study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
student to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation
of energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies,- laws of friction,
etc.
[For Civil Engineering Students, five hours a week for
first term. Two hours a week for second term.]
[For Students in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, and
Mining Engineering, five hours a week for
fourteen weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
67
Mechanics oe Materials. This course is intended
to meet the requirements of engineering students,
and to prepare them, by study of the action and eSect
of forces on beams and structures, to design economically
and intelligently the parts entering into a complete
structure. The course comprises a study of the elastic
and ultimate strength and ultimate deformation of
the materials of engineering, their properties and method
of testing, and discussion of cases of simple stresses.
The general theory of beams including cases of simple
and cantilever beams, overhanging, fixed, and con-
tinuous beams, is thoroughly investigated. Columns
are examined according to Euler’s, Rankin’s and other
formulae, and results compared. Some of the other
subjects considered in this course are torsion of shafts,
the transmission of power by shafts, apparent combined
stresses, such as flexure and compression, flexure and
torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams, rein-
forced concrete beams, plate girders and other forms.
Then is studied the subjects, resilience and work,
impact and fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal
tension and flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,
“the course closing with a study of the mathematical
theory of elasticity.
por students of Civil Engineering, three hours a week
for two terms.]
por students of Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and
Chemical Engineering, three hours a week
for twenty-two weeks.]
XI.
Roads and Pavements. This course is intended
to familiarize the student with the practical details
of laying out and constructing highways, the method
68
BUU^TIN OB THB
of drainage, grading, and-most suitable road covering,
the improvement of streets in cities and materials
used for paving and covering. The manner of pre-
paring the street before paving is placed in position is
fully considered and illustrated. The course includes
a thorough discussion of the theory of pavements and
a description of the various materials used, such as
cobble and stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood and broken
stone pavements. The method of preparing plans
and specifications for the various conditions arising
are considered and original plans are prepared by
students. Attention is also given to the construction
of street-car tracks in paved streets. Text-book, Baker.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Engineering. This course is taken by students
of Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches
the best approved methods of constructing engineer-
ing works and the styles of structures suitable for
different localities. The study is quite comprehensive,
including the general theory of the arch and appli-
cation of the voussoir arch; the theory of earth pressure,
and the design of retaining walls; foundations suit-’
able for structures of various classes in connection
with which the student becomes acquainted, not only
with the methods for ascertaining the bearing power
of the foundation, but also the means for constructing
deep foundations. The methods for tunnel construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included
in the course and given by text-book and lectures.
The part pertaining to masonry construction include
a study of the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the
manner of testing foundations under water, the crib
and open caisson process, the pneumatic process, the
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	69
theory of masonry arches and design, arch centers,
selection of site for bridge piers and arrangement
of spans, the details of construction of bridge piers
and manner of location, specifications for masonry,
etc. Text-books, Howe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Sanitary Engineering. This course is a study
of the principles and methods of drainage and disposal
of sewage in populous districts: shape, material and
calculation of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and ven-
tilation; separate and combined systems compared;
pollution of rivers; chemical precipitation; results
and costs of purification; general municipal and do-
mestic sanitation; inspection of neighboring works.
Text-books, Staler and Pierson. :
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
Bridges and Roots. This course comprises a
study of the different systems of trussed bridges and
‘ roof trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced
when loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure
and the effect of wind included. Both graphical and
analytical methods are used. Besides the various
systems of trussed bridges, which are studied in detail
the plate girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges
draw bridges, and roofs of various designs are given
equal attention; the purpose being to familiarize
the student with the different forms and enable him
to design and to estimate the cost of construction.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
70	bulletin OB THE
XV.
Graphic Statics. This course teaches the determina-
tion of stresses in framed structures by the graphical
method. Shearing forces, bending moments, centers of
gravity, and moments of inertia are graphically deter-
mined by the application of the principles of the force
and equilibrium polygons; also the determination of
stresses in bridge trusses with parallel chord and with
broken chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive
wheel loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof
trusses, graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical
and unsymmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-
ribs of hinged ends, and of fixed ends; stress diagrams;
temperature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied
to continuous girders. This course is supplemented
by full explanations, notes, examples and problems.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Tive hours a week for one term.]
An elementary course two hours a week for two
terms is given to students following the Program in
Design ‘ and Short Program in Architecture.
XVI.
Hydromechanics. This course is a thorough study
of the thoery of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hydro-
dynamics, to which are added many practical exercises.
The subjects admitted are the transmission of pressures,
center of pressures; velocity of flow from orifices of
various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s theorem
with friction: Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s formula;
flow over wires, and through tubes; flow in pipes;
loss of head in friction and other losses; flow in conduits,
canals, and rivers, velocities in cross sections; methods
of gauging the flow, measurement of water power,
dynamic pressure of flowing water; designing of water-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	71
works and standpipes; hydraulic motors and relative
merits; discussion of water wheels of different types,
and a study of the conditions determining high effi-
ciencies ; classification of turbines, and a complete
study and discussion of the different forms.
[For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a
week for two te'rms. For students in Elec-
trical, Mechanical, Mining and Chemical
Engineering, two hours a week for
twenty-two weeks.]
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
Drawing A and B (Elementary Freehand, Lettering,
Geometrical Drawing) are required to take up drawing
I, II.
Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for
each credit hour in the schedule.
I.
Freehand. This course consists in sketching with pen-
cil from various models of the different machine parts.
Later in the term, the use of instruments is taken up
illustrating problems in the Engineering course. Text-
book, Jamison's Elements.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
Projection Drawing. The course embraces the
principles of projection, methods of shop-drawing,
tinting, tracing, blueprinting, lineshading and the
preparation of working drawings of complete machines.
This course must be preceded by course I. Text-
book, Jamison's Manual.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
72
bulletin or the
III.
Descriptive Geometry. A series of accurate plates
is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic
and spherical projections, shades and shadows, per-
spective and isometric projections.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Kinematic Drawing. Designing of cams and gear
teeth, complete working drawings of ’machines involv-
ing the application of kinematics and the computation
of dimensions.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Topography. Pen and colored topographical draw-
ing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes taken
from surveys. This course must be preceded by Course
I. Text-book, Reed.
VI.
SterEotomy. This course comprises a study of
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geom-
etry to the determination of the forms and sizes of
the stones used in the construction of the different
classes of arches and masonry structures. This course
is given by lectures in the drawing room, explaining
the construction of templates, and the use of directing
instrument; also explanations of methods of draw-
ing plans, elevation and development of oblique arches,
wing walls and the like. A certain number of plates
and drawings is required, illustrating the methods of
performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry construction, foundations, dams, piers,
university OF NOTRE dame	73
abutments, culverts, and arches. Text-book, French.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Bridge Designing. This course proceeds from simple
framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of various
designs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineering.
Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail draw-
ings,—a short general course of bridge designing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
Machine Drawing. A continuation of Course I.
and II. embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical de-
sign with calculation of dimensions and construction
of drawings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low's
Machine Drawing and Design.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Applied Electricity. A course of lectures and
recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice, on
the general theory of electricity and magnetism and its
application to practical work, as follows: Setting up
. and testing primary and secondary batteries, systems
of call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances, fire
and burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines,
switch boards and accessories. Experiments with
induction coils, magnets, switches, voltmeters, am-
meters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers and other
measuring instruments. The study of direct current
generators and motors, arc and incandescent lighting
systems, street railway machinery and appliances, elec-
74
bulletin op the
trie heating and forging, electrolytic process, etc.
Text-book, Swoops s Practical Electricity.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Applied BlEctricity. Lectures and laboratory
work on the construction and testing of switches,
magnets, measuring instruments, induction coils, etc.
The calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits
for lighting and power, the experimental study of
alternating current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
.dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to
special purposes. This course must be preceded by
Course I. {Course I. and II. are required, in the Short
Program Electrical Engineering; they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy.)
(Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Dynamo-Blectric Machinery. Recitations on the
physical reactions, characteristic curves, mechanical
points, theory of armature winding, the mathematical
theory of alternating currents, phase relations, modern
forms of single phase, and multiphase generators and '
motors, design of transformers. Text-books, Sheldon’s
Dynamo Electric Machines, Sheldon and Mason’s Alter-
hating Currents.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
BlECTrical Laboratory. Practical work at wiring
buildings for lights and power, testing circuits for
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
75
insulation and grounds, construction and operation of
storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
characteristic curves of particular machines under
•different conditions, efficiency, tests of motors by
absorption dynamometer methods, alternating current
dynamo and transformer tests, the testing of storage
batteries, and complete plant efficiency tests. Careful
notes are taken.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
V.
Designing. The designing and making of working
drawings of switches, resistance and other electrical
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location
of circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawing
of direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Dynamo Machinery. Laboratory. Study of funda-
mental principles, characteristics of D. C. dynamos,
speed and torque of motors, A. C. generators and motors,
transformers and accessories, power measurements and
efficiency tests.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
VII.
Applied BlEctricity, Laboratory and Lectures
on the use of electricity in buildings, systems of wiring,
materials used, the Underwriting requirements for
study bells and telephones, electric lighring, photo-
metry and illumination/ For students in Architecture.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Power Transmission. Lectures and recitations on

BULLETIN OB The
pole lines, underground work, limits of voltage, insu-
lators, choice of frequency, cost of construction, de-
preciation and other financial matters.
[One hour a week for one term.]
h:	ix.
Electric Railways. Lectures and recitations on
track and overhead construction, cars, trucks, motors
and systems of control for both direct and alternat-
ing current, sub-stations, operation and financial
considerations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
X.
Telephony. Laboratory and lectures on general
principles, intercommunicating systems, switchboard
systems, manual and automatic, operation, cost of
equipment, maintenance and depreciation.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XI.
Wireless Telegraphy and Telephony. Experi-
mental practice and lectures on the theories invoved
in the construction and opertaion of the leading systems,
osculators and sending apparatus, detectors and receiv-
ing devices, turning to prevent interference.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Illuminating Engineering. Lectures on the theory
and operation of the various kinds of electric and
other lamps, distribution of light and the location of
lamps to produce the best illumination, practical
problems and the study of particular institutions
the cost per candle power or per candle foot including
first cost, attendance, breakage and depreciation.
[Two hours a week for ten weeks.]
f	UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	77
XIII.
Inspection Trip to Chicago. Study of the larger
power, lighting and telephone installations also factory
methods in several typical industrial establishments,
trips to the hydraulic and steam generating plants
along the St .Joseph river.
ENGLISH
I.
Genung’s Principles oe Rhetoric. A study of the
complete text. Frequent practice in simple theme work,
versification. Writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.*
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
GEOLOGY
I.
Principles oe Geology. Lectures, recitations, dem-
■ onstrations. The study of the general features of the
earth; the material composing the accessible parts of
the earth; the arrangements of the material in rocks;
the causes of geological changes; the history of the
earth and the various forms of life that existed in the
different periods of successive geological ages. Text-
book, Brigham. .
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
Mineralogy. The object of this course is to train
the student to identify minerals by their physical
characteristics, such as crystal form, cleavage, color,
hardness and specific gravity without having to resort
* Every Freshman will be obliged to follow a class in correct English, one
hour a week, unless his written work gives evidence that he may be dispensed
from this special exercise.
78
BULLETIN OB THE
to blowpipe or chemical tests except in the rare minerals
Recitations are made upon drawers of minerals in which
the student points out the distinguishing features by
which he recognizes the different minerals. Text-
book, Dana.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Mineralogy. Lectures, recitations, and laboratory
work. A study of crystallography and the classification
of minerals, accompanied by practice in the laboratory
and museum in the determination of minerals, especially
the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Crystallography. In this course there is made a
complete study of the laws in the different systems of
crystal formation, by means of laboratory work in
models, natural crystals and cleavage specimens. Text-
book, Williams.
Petrography. This course is a study of rocks with
regard to their classification, structure, mineralogical
constituents, chemical composition and alterations; a
study of the physical characters of the minerals shown
in thin transparent rock sections with the aid of the
microscope; a practical study of rocks in the hand
specimens and also in summer field work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
Geology, Physical and Chemical. A course treating
of the origin and alterations of rocks, of general eruptive
and earthquake action, metamorphism, faulting, joint-
ing, and mountain building: the action of atmospheric
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	79
agencies, surface and underground water. All of which
subjects are especially considered in their application
to mining pursuits. Text-book, Chamberlain-and Salis-
bury's Geology.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VII.
Geology, Economic Mining. A study of the genesis
of the useful ore deposits, both metallic and non-
metallic; an analysis of the relation existing between
structural, dynamic and chemical geology, petrography
and the ore deposits encountered in mining operations.
Frequent reference is made to the bulletins, monographs
and reports of the United States Geological Survey.
Text-books, Spurr, Reis.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
GERMAN
I.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation from German into
English of simple prose; translation of English exercises
into German. Reading of short stories and selections
from more difficult prose.
German Reader, Miller and Wenkelbach.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Grammar, Thomas. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history. Sight
reading of selections from history.
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Grammar, Thomas. Sight reading of plays, poems
8o
bulletin ob thb
and prose writing. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; Best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Tour hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
Hb.
A general course in modern history with special
reference to its most important periods.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
MATHEMATICS
I.
Algebra. This course includes a study of the bino-
mial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows
a thorough study of the general properties and solution
of equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives,
transformation, detached coefficients, surd and imagi-
nary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, DesCartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem, Horner’s method. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Tive hours a week for one term.]
II.
Analytic Ghombtry. This course includes a study of
the point and right line; conic sections; their equations
and properties; discussion of the general equation of
the second degree containing two variables; different
systems of co-ordinates; transformation of co-ordinates;
an elementary course in geometry of three dimensions,
embracing the point, straight line, plane and surfaces

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	81
of revolution; transformation of co-ordinates; quadric
surfaces and supplementary propositions. Text-book,
Bailey and Woods.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
Caecueus, Differentiae. This course as also Courses
IV. and V.. is designed to meet the requirements of
Engineering students. It includes a study of the methods
for the differentiation of algebraic, logarithmic and
exponential, trignometric, and inverse trigonometric
functions, successive differentiation, and differential
coefficients; treatment of implicit and compound
functions; expansion of functions; indeterminate forms;
partial differential coefficients of the first order and of
higher orders; direction of curvature; radius of curva-
ture; envelopes; maxima and minima of functions of
one independent variable, and of several independent
variables; tracing curves; differentials of arcs, plane
areas, surfaces and volumes of revolution. Text-book,
Osborn.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Caecueus, InTEGrae. Integration of elementary form
and of rational fractions; integration by rationalization
and by parts; successive integration; multiple integrals;
definite integrals, limits of integration; double integra-
tion applied to plane areas; rectification of plane curves;
quadratures of plane areas and surfaces of revolution;
surface and volume of any solid; intrinsic equation of
curve. This course is supplemented by numerous
exercises and examples. Text-book, Osborn.
[Five hours a week for twelve weeks.]
82
BULLETIN of the
V.
Differential Equations. An elementary course
for Engineering students, supplementary to the course
of integral calculus. It embraces equations of the first
order and degree; equations of the first order, but
not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear equa-
tions with constant coefficients; special forms of equa-
tions with higher orders. Numerous applications to
mechanics and physics are introduced during the course.
Text-book, Murray.
[Five hours a week for six weeks.]
Advanced Work. The prescribed courses in pure
mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following
advanced courses are offered, based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every
year. The number of students required to constitute
a class in airy one subject must be at least five.
(a) Higher Algebra, Hall and Knight, Smith, Crystal.
(&) Advanced work in Trigonometry, Todhunter, Lock.
(c) Determinants, Peck, Hanus, Muir, (d) Theory of
Equations, Burnside and Panton. (e) Advanced Calculus,
Byerly, Todhunter, Williamson, (f) Advanced Analytic
Geometry, Salmon, (g) Analytic Geometry of Three
Dimensions, Aldis, Frost, Salmon, (h) Quaternions,
Hardy with Kelland and Tait as reference.
[Three hours’ recitation a week for one subject.]
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I.
Thermodynamics. The subject begins with a theo-
retical study of the steam engine, gas engine, s earn
turbines and other heat motors involving the laws of
thermodynamics of gases, saturated vapors and super-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	83
•heated steam. The applications of this preliminary
work are then dwelt upon, and prime movers, the
injector, condenser, refrigerating machinery, boilers and
pumps are studied in detail. During the second term
a study of the different types of internal combustion
engines is made together with a general study of costs
in operating power plants. Frequent reference is made
to trade catalogues, of which an abundant supply should
be obtained by the student. Text-book, Cardullo’s
Thermodynamics; References: The Steam Engine and
Turbine, Heck; Steam Engine Theory and Practice,
Ripper.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Materials or Engineering. This course, supple-
mented by shop work and laboratory work in testing
materials of construction, is designed, for the purpose
of acquainting the student with the properties of the
material he will use in his profession. Tensile and
shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are studied,
together with the effects of strain, intermittent loading
and impact. The process of manufacture of the most
important materials is taken up, and estimates of the
cost of construction at market prices complete the work.
Text-book, Thurston's Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
Steam Power Pdants. The preliminary work of this
course comprehends a brief study of the history of the
steam engine together with its development and differ-
entiation into the standard types at present on the
market. Subsequently, the elements controlling designs
for specific purposes are considered. Finally the study
of the Power Plant as a whole is taken up and the
84
BULLETIN OB THE
relations between engines, turbines, pumps, condensers,
boilers, piping, fuel and auxiliaries are dwelt upon in
detail. A completely worked out plan for a specific
equipment is required of each student. The text-book
is Gebhardt’s Steam Power Plant Engineering; Refer-
ences: Steam Power Plants, Meyers; The Mechanical
Engineering of Power Plants, Hutton; Steam-Electric
Power Plants, Koester.
(Rive hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Steam BoieERS. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of
parts from consideration of strains, thickness of shells,
size of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods
of connection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces
and life of boiler are some of the subjects considered.
The method of determining the efficiency of fuels,
heating surfaces, heights of chimneys, boiler setting
and materials used in connection are also discussed.
Text-book, Steam Boilers by Munro.
*
[Three hours a week for one term.]
- V.
Kinematics. This course treats of the geometry
of machinery, the determination of the paths of the
' various parts of an elementary combination and the
constraining of the parts to move in these paths. The
general theory is then applied to cams and gear teeth,
the relative motion of machine parts and the kinematic
trains, belts, pulleys, speed cones, link work and other
aggregate combinations. Barr’s Kinematics of Ma-
chinery is the text-book used.
[Three hours’ recitation and two hours’ drawing
a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
85
VI.
(a)	Machine Design. This work involves a study
of the form and strength of machine parts as applied
in designing, with computation of dimensions for
fastenings, bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth
gearing, etc. The derivation of rational formulae and
the determination of empirical formulae are included
and applied in designing. The text-books used are
Unwin’s Elements of Machine Design, Low’s Handbook
for Mechanical Engineers and Reed’s Machine Design
and Drawing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	■ Vaeve Gears. This includes a complete study
of the Bilgram diagram as applied to side valves and
the principal automatic cut-off engines. The radial
gears, such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall and Joy
are treated in the same way, and in conclusion the
student is made familiar with the various types of '
.. Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics and like motions. The
text-book is Halsey’s Valve Gears.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VII.
Gas Power Plants. A study from text-book,
reference works, current technical magazines and
catalogues of manufacturers of the adaptation of the
various types of prime movers available as power
sources. From a set of specifications for a given power
plant submitted to the student, a detailed plan is
required, showing the selection and arrangement of
the power units, method of piping, arrangement of
fuel handling apparatus and other auxiliaries.
Must be preceded by Course X. and taken in con-
junction with Course XI.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
86
BULLETIN of the
Mechanical Laboratory. The work taken up
includes a study of the methods of testing the steam
engine under varying running conditions, valve setting,
calibration of thermometers, gauges and indicator
springs, use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dyna-
mometers, Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc.
Text-book, Carpenter’s Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Steam Engines and Boilers. A brief course in
the study of boilers and steam engines designed to
familiarize the student with the different types in use
and their respective merits. Only that theory is taken
up which is necessary to the working out of problems,
the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this course must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text
book, Power and Power Transmission, Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.
Gas and Vapor Engines. This course, extending
over two terms, is given to a general descriptive study
of all the types of gas engines and explosive motors.
The general construction of gas, oil, vapor engines
is studied together with their adaptation to various uses.
Results due to change in ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid; methods of speed regu-
lation and government and the details of auxiliaries
as, pumps, carburettors, hot tubes, batteries, spark
coils and dynamos are dwelt upon. The text-book
used is Gas, Oil and Vapor Engines by Hiscox.
[Eive hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
87
XI.
Gas Engine Design. A complete study of the
thermodynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-
book, lectures and drawing board. The major subjects
taken up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due
to gas pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine
parts. Luke’s Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing
a week for two terms.]
XII.
Gas Engine Construction. The complete work-
ing up from rough castings and forgings of. a small
type of gas engine. This is part of the thesis work
for students in the Short Program and requires the
complete machining and assembling of the engine
and must be preceded by Courses X. and XI.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
Gas Engine Laboratory. Indicator practice, com-
merical efficiency, governing economy, speed regulation.
Experiments in ignition, spark coil construction, car-
burettors and vaporizers. Test of engine constructed
by the student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
SHOPWORK
XIV.
(a) Woodwork. Exercises in planing, splicing,
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
(by Application of Carpentry to pattern making,
cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe joints,
cranks and bearings.
(c)	Foundry Practice. Setting up and drawing
simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heating
88
BULLETIN OF THE
and pouring metals for different purposes. Core making.
(d)	Iron Forging, welding, annealing, shaping, tool
making, tempering and case hardening.
(e)	Benchwork in iron, including surface chip-
ping, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
(/) Accurate Work on the lathe, planer, .shaft-
ing and milling machines. Construction of machine
tools, reamers, taps, twist drills, gear wheels and com-
plete machines.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
Thesis. Bach candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Bngineering must present for graduation a thesis
of considerable magnitude which will exhibit his
knowledge of the courses he has followed. It may
embrace designing, experimental investigation or orig-
inal research, in a subject selected by the student and
approved by the professor. The major part of the
second term, Senior year, is devoted to this work, and
graduation is conditional upon the knowledge of me-
chanical engineering displayed in its preparation.
METALLURGY
I.
Metaeeugry. Among the subjects studied in this
course are the following—classification of ores, sampling,
crushing, milling practice, roasting and smelting; the
various extraction processes of the following metals—
gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc, are given special
attention; the production of pig iron in blast furnaces.
A trip of inspection is made to smelting plants,
blast furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order
to familiarize the student with metallurgic plants in
operation.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
89
II.
Assaying. This course consists of a series of actual
determinations of the quantity and value of gold, silver
and lead in the various ores by the crucible and scorifica-
tion methods of the fire assay; the assaying of gold
and silver bullion; determining the strength of cyanide
working solutions; the assay of gold bearing cyanide
solutions; and wet determinations of copper and zinc.’
.	[Eight hours a week for one term.]
III.
Assaying. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace assay-
ing of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-book,
Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Ore Dressing. . A course in which a detailed study
is pursued of the various processes of mechanically
separating and saving valuable minerals from the
valueless gangue of ores, whereby the valuable minerals
are concentrated into smaller bulk and weight by
discarding a large portion of the waste.
The principal subjects treated are: Preliminary and
final crushing by means of rock-breakers, steam and
gravity stamps with amalgamation; rolls, Chilian,
Huntington; tube and ball mills; screen sizing2 and
classifying; sand and slime concentrating on jigs, tables
and vanners; magnetic separation, pneumatic con-
centration, oil flotation processes; locating and con-
structing the mill. The course includes a trip of in-
spection to a number of the most modern concentrating
mills in the lake Superior district where the student
engages in practical work in the study of mill construc-
tion, operation and efficiency. Text-book, Richards.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
90
BULLETIN OB TH#
MINING ENGINEERING
I.
Mining Enigneering, Principles op.. This course
includes a general study of Mining operations divided
into the following subjects: Occurrence of minerals in
the earth’s crust, discovery, boring, excavation, sup-
porting excavations, exploitation, haulage, hoisting,
‘drainage, ventilation, lighting, access, ore dressing
and treatment. Text-book, Foster and Brough.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Mine Surveying. A study of the subject of surveying
in its special application to mines, through lectures,
plotting of problems and recitations; for students who
take the summer course in the. mines. The following
subjects receive particular attention—recording of
notes in underground traverses- and their subsequent
plotting, a comparison of metal mine and coal mine
surveys, the methods of connecting surface with under-
ground surveys by means of both the auxiliary telescope
and plumb lines and the deputy mineral surveyor’s
methods of surveying mining claims for patent. Each
student is required to make a complete mine map from
notes of actual mine surveys. Text-book, Trumbull.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
PHILOSOPHY
IV.
A general course in philosophy designed to acquaint
the student with the important problems of philosophy.
It is hoped sufficient interest will be aroused in the
student in this abridged presentation to enable him to
continue, of his own accord, an intelligent study of
this important subject.
(Tour hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
91
PHYSICS
I.
(a) Physics. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and
magnetism are ♦ presented. The course is intended to
meet the needs of those who desire a general knowledge
of the subjects, as well as to lay the foundations for
advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(&) The Laboratory Work of this course consists
of a series of experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation, and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
General Physics. In this course there is a more
extended treatment of the same subjects than is given
in Course I. Mathematical principles are applied to
physical phenomena. Special attention is paid to
accuracy in the mathematical work and in the state-
ments of the principles involved. Lectures and recita-
tions. Text-book, Crewe.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Physics. * The application of mathematics in physical
92
BUI/I/BTIN of thf
work. Measurements of length, mass and time. Work
in mechanics, heat, light, sound, electricity and mag-
netism. The work is done in the laboratory and the
student is taught to depend on his own resources and
to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Physical Laboratory. Students in Electrical and
Mechanical Engineering will have a special set of
experiments on electricity, comprising special advanced
work in heat, light, mechanics, sound, magnetism,
general electricity, galvanometry, electrical quantity,
induction, the dynamo, the magnetic properties of
iron. Accuracy in observation and in the calculation
and recording of the results is required. Students may
specialize here according to the program which they
are following. This course must be preceded by Courses
II. and III.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
V.
ElBCTricar MFasurrmbnTS. Laboratory practice
with galvanometers, voltmeters, ammeters and watt-
meters, resistance work, the relation or equivalence
between electric energy and heat, capacity and induc-
tance, insulation tests.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
' CawrimBTry. Accurate work in laboratory, using
methods of mixtures, bomb and other calorimeters in
measuring the calorific values of gaseous and solid fuels,
quantitative measurements of radiation and conduction
of heat as applied to pipe coverings, etc.
[Three hours a week for ten weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
93
VII.
Meteorology. A government station was installed
at the University by the United States Weather Bureau
in March, 1912. An elementary course in meterology
is offered to students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
Research Work. Courses are offered in Theory
of Heat, Theory of Electricity and Magnetism, Optics,
the Constitution of Matter, Conduction of Electricity
' by Gases, Theory of Sound, Hertzian Waves. Calculus
required to take up any of these topics.
[Two to five hours a week for one term.]
POLITICAL SCIENCE.
IX.
The Elements of Economics. A general survey of
the subject based upon some standard text. Similar
in scope to Course I. though briefer in presentation.
[Eour hours a week for one term.]
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the
inflection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Reading of three of the following
works: La Tache de Petit Pierre, Mariet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheur esue, Guerber;
Sans Famille, Malot; Readings from French History,
Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
94
BULUBTIN OB THB
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of
idioms, memorizing. Dictations and conversations on
practical topics, and careful reading of five of the
following works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
Choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d’Argent, Dumas; Standard
French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of French literature; besides a translation and
criticism of the best writers, such as; Cans cries du
Lundi, Ste., Beuve; On Rend VArgent, Coppee; Her-
nani, Hugo; Meditations,- Lamartine; Athalie, Racine;
L’Aware, Moliere; Mlle, de la Seigliere, Sandeau; Les
Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine; Expedition
de Bonaparte en Egypte, Thier; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie,
Montalembert; Historic de la Litterature Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the same
every year.
’ SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero,
Perez Bscritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego,
and Irate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
95
II.
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries, with composition and the history
of the literature of the period.
[hive hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries;
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the
literature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Barly Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
literature of the fifteenth century.