Series IX.
Number IV.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
, NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
'GENERAL CATALOGUE
1913-1914
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
• APRIL, 1914
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17 1905
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
No I ro Dame, Indiana
Series IX.
Number IV.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA '
GENERAL CATALOGUE
1913-1914
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
APRIL, 1914
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17,1905
2
BULLETIN OF THE
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to -the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is 41 degrees, 43
*
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable
for a healthful climate where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great fatigue or
danger to health.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 3
CALENDAR FOR 1914-1915
Sept.	8, 9. 10. 15, 16. 17. 20.	Entrance Examinations and Examination of Conditioned Students in the Preparatory School. Registration. Preparatory School Opens. Entrance Examinations and Examination of Conditioned Students in the Colleges. Regis- tration. Colleges Open. Reading of University Regulations in all the Halls.	.
Oct.	13. 27.	Founder’s Day. Annual Retreat begins in the evening.
Nov.	1. 18, 20. 26.	Feast of All Saints. No Classes. Mid-Term Examinations. Thanksgiving Day. No Classes.
Dec.	5. 8. 11. 19.	The William P. Breen Medal Orations.	. Feast of the Immaculate Conception. No Classes. President’s Day. No Classes. Christmas Vacation Begins.
Jan.	5. 29, 30.	Classes Resume. ’ Term Examinations.
Feb.	1. 22. 26.	Second Term Begins. Washington’s Birthday. No Classes. Presenta- tion of Flag by the Senior Class. State Oratorical Contest.
March	17. 19.	St. Patrick’s Day. St. Joseph’s Day.
April	4. 5. 9, 10.	Easter. No Easter Vacation.	' Easter Monday. No Classes. - Mid-Term Examinations.
May	20.	Latest Date for Handing in Prize Essays and Graduating Theses in all the Colleges. Decoration Day. No Classes.
June	1. 7, 8, 9. 9, 11. 10. 12. 13. 14. 15, 16.	The Patrick T. Barry Medal Recitations. The Joseph A. Lyons Medal Recitations. Examination of Candidates for Graduation. Examinations in Preparatory School. Commencement in Preparatory School. Vacation in Preparatory School Begins. Baccalaureate Sermon. Meeting of the Alumni. Commencement. Bachelors’ Orations, 10:00 a. m. Commencement Address and Gradu- ation Exercises, 8:00 p. m. Examinations in the Colleges..
4
BULLETIN OF THE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
VERY REV. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
REV. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
REV. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
BRO. ALBAN, C. S. C.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 5
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
REV. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
VICE-PRESIDENT.
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
, DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
REV. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
REV. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C.,S. C.,
SECRETARY.
6
BULLETIN OF THE
PROFESSORS IN THE COLLEGES
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
Special English.
REV. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
History
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
Scholastic Philosophy.
REV. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
REV. ALEXANDER MARION KIRSCH, C. S. C.,
Biology and Geology.
REV. JOHN BERNARD SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Latin and Greek.
REV. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Accounting.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry and Mineralogy.
REV. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy and English.
REV. MICHAEL OSWALD, C. S. C.,
Greek and Latin.
REV. JULIUS NIEUWLAND, C. S. C.,
Botany and Chemistry.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 7
REV. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C. S. C.,
English and Ethics.	'
REV. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
REV. CORNELIUS J. HAGERTY, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
REV. WILLIAM A. BOLGER, C. S. C.,
Political Economy and Sociology.
REV. ERNEST DAVIS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
REV. PAUL FOIK, C. S. C.,
.	Librarian.
REV. THOMAS BURKE, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. JOHN TALBOT SMITH, LL. D.,
Lecturer on English Literature.
REV. JOHN McGINN, C. S. C.,
Philosophy.
REV. ALPHONSE JUST, C. S. C.,
Violin.
BRO. GERARD, C. S. C.,
Piano.
8
BULLETIN OF THE
DAMIS PAUL,*
Violin.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D., K. S. G.,
Law.
MARTIN McCUE, M. S., C. E.,
Civil Engineering and Astronomy.
TIMOTHY EDWARD HOWARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Mechanical Drawing.
JEROME JOSEPH GREEN,^M. E. E. E.
Electrical Engineering.
WILLIAM LOGAN BENITZ, M. E. E. E.
Mechanical Engineering.
✓
EDWARD JOSEPH MAURUS, M. S.,
Mathematics and Surveying.
GALLITZIN FARABAUGH, A. B., LL. B.,
Law.
CAPTAIN R. R. STOGDALL, U. S. A., RETIRED,
Military Science and Tactics.
JAMES KEELEY,
Journalism.
* Died Dec. 13, 1913
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
9
ARTHUR LUCIUS HUBBARD, A. M., LL. D.,
Law.
ROBERT LEE GREEN, PH. G.,
Pharmacy and Pharmacognosy.
FRANCIS WYNNE KERVICK, B. S. In ARCH.,
Architecture.
. KNOWLES B. SMITH, E. M.,
Mining Engineering.
JAMES HINES, PH. B„
History.
A
JOHN M. COONEY, A. M.,	$
Journalism.	$
V
CHARLEMAGNE KOEHLER, A. M„
Dramatics and Oratory.
WILLIAM McINERNY, LL. M.,	.
Law.
i	-a
FRANCIS J. DERRICK, A. B.,
Director of Band and Orchestra.	'
JOSE ANGEL CAPARO, M. S, PH. D
Electrical Engineering and Physics.
MAX PAM,
‘ Lecturer on Law.
THOMAS STEINER, C. E.,
Mathematics.
10	BULLETIN OF THE
JOHN WORDEN, B. S.,
Freehand Drawing and Modeling.
FRANCIS J. POWERS, M. S., M. D„
Anatomy and Physiology.
CARL EGGERT,
Shopwork.
FREDERICK BINDER,
Vocal Culture.
FELIX JOSE ALONZO,
Spanish
BENEDETTO PASQUINI, D. C. L.,
Italian.
WILLIAM MOORE, City Engineer of South Bend.,
Lecturer on Municipal Engineering.
REGIDIUS M. KACZMAREK, A. B., M. S.
Polish Language and History.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
11
DIRECTORS OF HALLS
HOLY CROSS HALL
REV. THOMAS J. IRVING, C. S. C.
REV. WILLIAM P. LENNARTZ, C. S. C.
SORIN HALL
REV. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.
REV. JAMES McMANUS, C. S. C.
rev. hugh McCauley, c. s. c.
CORBY HALL
REV. JOHN FARLEY, C. S. C.
REV. CHARLES DORAMUS, C. S. C.
REV. ALPHONSE JUST, C. S. C
WALSH HALL
REV. GEORGE McNAMARA, C. S. C.
REV. JOHN McGINN, C. S. C.
REV. JOHN RYAN, C. S. C.
GEORGE W. ALBERTSON.
BROWNSON HALL
BRO. ALPHONSUS, C. S. C.
BRO. HUGH, C. S. C.
BRO. CASIMIR, C. S. C.
BRO. ALAN, C. S. C.
CARROLL HALL
REV. JAMES QUINLAN, C. S. C.
BRO. LOUIS, C. S. C.
BRO. MAURILIUS, C. S. C.
BRO. ALOYSIUS, C. S. C.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
REV. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.
BRO. FLORIAN,
C. S. C.
ST. EDWARD’S HALL
BRO. CAJETAN, C. S. C.	BRO. BEDE, C. S. C.
BRO. LEANDER, C. S. C.
DUJARIE HALL
BRO. AIDAN, C. S. C.
BRO. JOSEPH, C. S. C.
12
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842 by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis-
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is: .
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State of
Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body, corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the 'University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted,
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as is, customary in other
universities in the United States.”
UNIVERSITY OF NOT.RE DAME
13
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-
halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-
rooms are in this building. The Library and the Bis-
hops' Memorial Hall are also here temporarily. This
building, like all the others of the University, is lighted
by electricity and gas, and heated by steam. The cor-
ridors of the first floor are decorated with mural paint-
ings by Gregori.
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
in ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 65,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
department of literary critcism, history, political
science and the Greek and Latin classics are well rep-
resented. Special libraries containing reference works
on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science; The College of Law has
a complete library of its own. Ample reading room
is provided in the main library. The best literary
magazines and reviews, as well as current numbers
of scientific and technical journals are kept on file.
Students have access to the Library from 8:00 A. M.
to 9:00 P. M.
14	BULLETIN OF THE
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width,
and about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms
of the Department of Music, the reading rooms for
Brownson and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre.
The theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings.
It will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent
in public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also pre-
sented in this theatre. The dramatic clubs of the
University present several plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall.
Its dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three
stories in height. A large central space, the full height
of the building, is occupied by a museum contain-
ing mineral, fossil and biological specimens. The
departments of Physics, Civil Engineering, Philosophy,
Botany and Biology have recitation rooms and labo-
ratories in this building. The equipment for each of
these departments is extensive and complete. De-
scription of the equipment will be found later in this
catalogue.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is
well arranged for convenience of study. The sociological
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative ver-
tebrate skeletons forms a considerable part of the
museum.
Facilities for the publication of research on subjects
of natural history are afforded in the pages of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 15
American Midland Naturalist, which appears bi-monthly
from the laboratory of botany at the University.
The collections in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a
series of cases on each side of the building. In one
series is a carefully classified collection of minerals
and ores. The opposite series of cases contain a large
geological collection; some of the specimens here are
of the rarest fossil remains of animal and plant life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture room. The second floor
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and
contains a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern
drug store, a lecture room and museum, a library for
pharmaceutical publications, and a general stock-room.
The general inorganic, organic and elementary chemical
laboratories are on the third floor. Each laboratory
is provided with ample hood accommodations, and
each desk is furnished with water, gas and suction.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the .
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop for
wood-work and also contains a well lighted drawing
room where students in designing may consult complete
workings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market. In this building are likewise
the dynamo laboratory, designing room and recitation
rooms of the Electrical Engineering department.
16
BULLETIN OF THE
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Lab-
oratories and is designed for an equatorial telescope
and for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial
telescope now in the building is intended for students
of astronomy, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students
of full Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of
the Colleges are not required to pay rent. ♦ On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room and
a law library. The building is lighted with electricity
and heated with steam. In the basement are recre-
ation rooms and bath rooms.
*	CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with rec-
reation rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted
with electrictiy and gas and heated with steam.
WALSH HALL
This newest dormitory building is situated south
of Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions
are 230 feet by 41 feet. It faces East and all the front
rooms are made up of suites each consisting of a com-
modious study room, flanked on either side by a bed-
room. Attached to each suite is a private bath and
toilet. Each room is supplied with hot and cold water.
The rear rooms are singles and the general toilet and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
17
bath rooms are of hollow, fire-proof tile, walls and ceil-
ings covered with wire lath and plaster, making prac-
tically a fire-proof building. It is equipped with a dis-
tinct system of stand-pipes for fighting fire. The entire
corridor floors are built of reinforced concrete, covered
with Roman ceramic mosaics. In finish and equipment
Walsh Hall is believed to be the best college dormitory
building in America. It embraces three stories besides
the admirable basement and attic, and it is capable of
accommodating over a hundred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of
age and upwards. There is a common study hall,
a common lavatory, and two sleeping rooms in which
each student has an alcove curtained to secure a per-
sonal privacy. Experience shows that the discipline
of these common rooms works admirable effects on
students who have not yet contracted solid habits
of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Administra-
tion Building. It is in all respects similar to Brown-
son Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end of the campus and is devoted exclusively
to living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
18
BULLETIN OF THE
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The
conditions for admission to this hall are (1) The pay-
ment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the
first of August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter.
The waiting in nowise interferes with the student’s
work, and all the educational advantages are opeh
to him. It is to be regretted that through the lack
of endowment the University can offer only a limited
number of such opportunities each year. It is neces-
sary to apply early for these appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for
the use of students during illness. The sick are cared
for by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University
physician visits them daily.
THE GYMNASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet
on the ground. The track-hall is now 100 by 180
feet on the ground. It is used for indoor meets, winter
baseball practice, basketball and military drill. The
gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with
a full set of apparatus; below that are the offices,
dressing . rooms and shower baths. Friends of the
University and the alumni contributed more than
three thousand dollars to the fund" for rebuilding.
Cartier field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The field contains ten
acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. E., of the class of ’87.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 19
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University: Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall,
the Community House, the Presbytery, and Saint
Edward’s Hall, the last-named being a school for
children under the age of thirteen, in care of the Sisters
of the Holy Cross.
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his
own curriculum conformably to his natural liking,
the career in life he may have in view, or the deter-
minate intellectual bent developed during his secondary
school years; but, though he is free to elect his own
studies, he has not, however, unlimited freedom in
this respect. The principle of general election is mod-
ified. Lest the young Freshman in his inexperience
choose unwisely, he is aided in making his choice of
studies by being permitted to select from among a
number of parallel programs leading to baccalaureate
degrees. Twenty programs are open for his choice
in the Colleges, each embracing courses which, in the
opinion of the Faculty, contribute best to cultural,
scientific or professional knowledge. These programs
are, in some cases, made elastic by the introduction
of elective courses, especially in the Junior and Senior
years. Students who wish to spend a limited time
in study and can not complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special students
and elect any course for which their preparation has
fitted them. .
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for preparation of recitations. One hour
20
BULLETIN OF THE
of recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours
of laboratory work. The minimum number of credit
hours which a student must carry, except in his Senior
year, is sixteen, the maximum number which he may
ordinarily carry is twenty. Students who wish to
take more work than is indicated by the maximum
number must apply by formal petition to the Faculty
for the requisite permission."
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by
a properly attested certificate, of ability to enter on
the courses of the Freshman year. The specific sub-
jects required for entrance will be found later in this
catalogue.
Examinations in all the subjects required for ad-
mission to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, the beginning of the Fall Term, and in
February, the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examina-
tions in one or more of the subjects required fon ad-
mission to any college program may, at the discretion
of the Faculty, be admitted to his class conditioned,
to make up his deficiency by extra study within one
school year. Only when the conditions are removed
will the student be admitted to full standing in his
class.
Students who have completed a four year course
in High Schools or Preparatory Schools of recognized
standing will be admitted without examination to
the Freshman year of any program to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 21*
Candidates for admission to advanced standing
who are required to take examinations must pass,
in addition to the usual entrance examinations, an
examination in the work already done by the classes
they desire to enter. The additional subjects may be
found in the several programs of studies described
later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present cer-
tificates from other colleges or universities may be
received at the discretion of the Faculty with or with-
out examination as regards particular cases.
No student will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.
It is recommended that Latin, Modern language
or history be taken as electives under the College of
Letters; that Modern language, or science be taken
as electives under the Colleges of Science, Engineering
and Architecture; that French be the language chosen
for Architecture; that language and history be taken
as electives for the College of Law.
£
Entrance Requirements for Various Colleges in Subjects and Units
COLLEGES
SUBJECTS	ARTS	LETTERS*	SCIENCE		Engineering Architecture	LAW
	Units	Units	Units		Units	Units
English			4	4		4... ■		4	4
Latin				4	.... 2 or 4. .		2'			. . .2 or 4. . .
Greek	.		.3			or	-		
French, German or Spanish 					2 +			2		9		2f	
History		9	9.	9/		9	9
Algebra	'	 Geometry		1	1	.... ix			.... IX		1
	1	1	... .IX			.... IX		1
Trigonometry					x				x		
Chemistry	 Physics		It		H		'l			'1		'i	
			1		1	
Botany, Physiology, Zoology, Physiography	 Drawing			-				-
	J			x				x		
Elective				'9?		9	
						
Total			16			16			16				16			16	
						
including Departments of Letters, History and Economics, Journalism and Commerce.
fFour units of Language required. jFor admission to the College of Arts and Letters and Law one unit of Science
is required.
For admission to the Department of Commerce two units of Modern Language are required. Latin is not re-
quired, thus giving five electives.
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 23
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed. The
courses required for the several degrees conferred by
the University will be found described in this cata-
logue. Written theses and formal examinations are
demanded of all candidates for degrees. One full
scholastic year of resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through-
out the four scholastic years. In the College of Arts
and Letters five degrees are conferred—Bachelor of
Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of Letters (Litt. B.), Bachelor
of Philosophy (Ph. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy in
Journalism (Ph. B. in Jour.)—Bachelor of Philosophy in
Commerce, (Ph. B. in Com.) dependent on the special
program of studies the candidate selects. The College
of Science offers six degrees for choice to undergrad-
uates—Bachelor of Science (B. S.), Bachelor of Science
in Biology (B. S. Biol.), Bachelor of Science in Chemis-
try (B. S. Chern.), Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy
(B. S. in Ph.), Graduate in Pharmacy (Ph. G.), Phar-
maceutical Chemist (Ph. C.). The College of En-
gineering offers five degrees—Civil Engineer (C. E.),
Mechanical Engineer (M. E.), Electrical Engineer
(E. E.), Mining Engineer (E. M.), and Chemical
Engineer (Ch. E.). Two degrees are offerred by the
College of Architecture—Bachelor of Science in Archi-
tecture (B. S. A.), and Bachelor of Science in Archi-
tectural Engineering (B. S. A. E.). The College of
Law offers the degree of Bachelor of Laws (LL. B.).
In the College of Music one degree is offered—Bachelor
24
BULLETIN OF THE
of Music (B. M.). In order to obtain this degree the
candidate must have studied music in the University
for one complete year. He must have a thorough
theoretical knowledge of four instruments mentioned
in the courses described later, and a practical mastery
of one of them. He shall pass a written examination
in harmony, counterpoint and composition, and he
must submit to the examiner two original compositions :
(a) a fugue for full orchestra, or for four voices-with
independent orchestral accompaniment: (b) a composi-
tion in the free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte,
or a trio (pianoforte, violin and violincello).
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have .been in residence for one
complete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame .or
from some other college in good standing, and who
make application to the Committee of the Faculty
on Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing ad-
vanced work. All work must be approved by this
Committee. One year of residence, at least, is re-
quired of candidates who have received their Bachelor’s
degree at another college. Those who have received
their Bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in
some cases to be determined by the Committee, obtain
the Master’s degree for work done in absentia* One
major and one or two minor courses will constitute
the curriculum, forming a consistent coordinated
plan of advanced work pursued with some definite
aim. On completion of the required work the candi-
* No degree is conferred in honorem except the degree of
Doctor of Laws (LL. D.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
25
date must pass a satisfactory examination in writing,
under the professors who give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a dis-
sertation of notable merit on some topic connected
with his major subject, the thesis to contain in the
minimum five thousand words. The subject of the
thesis must be announced to the Committee by December
1, and submitted for examination by May 15. Five
printed or typewritten copies of the thesis must be
presented to the University to be placed in the library.
The fee for examination of work done in absentia is
twenty-five dollars. The fee for this degree is fixed
at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity wprk before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these must be spent at Notre Dame
and one may be passed at some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactorily ex-
aminations in French and German on entrance. The
work for the degree shall consist of one major and two
minor courses of instruction approved by the Committee.
Research study shall form the most important part
of the candidate’s work. On completion of his work
the candidate must pass minute examinations on the
three subjects of his curriculum and must defend his
dissertation before the whole Faculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies
presented to the University. A copy of the thesis
must be handed to the Committee one month before
the examinations. The degree will not be conferred
for merely faithful work, and not for miscellaneous
study, but for original research and for high attain-
26
BULLETIN OF THE
ment in one branch of study. The fee for this degree
is fixed at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become condidates
for a degree by following the prescribed courses of
any program may register as special students and
attend any of the courses of instruction for which
their previous academic training has fitted them.
Such special students are governed by the same regu-
lations and discipline as the other undergraduates.
They are required to pass the same examinations in
the courses they pursue as the other students. In
exceptional cases men of mature age, who have been
out of school or college for several years, but whose
training in practical affairs has been sufficiently educa-
tive, will be accepted as special students by satisfying
the Faculty of their ability to pursue with profit any
course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may
receive on application certificates stating their pro-
ficiency in the courses they have pursued.
SCHOLARSHIPS
The University has at present only five foundations.
which yield revenues for the support and tuition of
four students annually. Assignment of these scholar-
ships is made under restrictions indicated with each
gift. No student will be continued in the enjoyment
of a scholarship whose superiority in college work is
not clearly indicated in his first year of residence.
Nor will a student who has incurred serious censure
by breach of the regulations of the University be con-
sidered again as a candidate for a scholarship.
It is a matter of great regret that the lack of endow-
ment makes it impossible for the University to give
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 27
place to a greater number of deserving students who
are not able to pay the charges of board and tuition.
Under conditions indicated on page 17 of this catalogue
a limited number of deserving student-waiters can
be received at reduced rates. Certain clerkships in
the University offices and positions in the libraries
are also open to worthy students. Information re-
garding the assignment of these places will be furnished
by the President. The University is doing all in its
power to assist students in narrow circumstances.
The friends of Notre Dame are asked to assist in this
work.
THE JOHNSON SCHOLARSHIP
In 1899 Dr. Edward Johnson, of Watertown, Wis-
consin, gave a fund of four thousand dollars, the income
of which aids in the support of one student annually.
By the terms of the gift assignment is made only to
a student who intends to enter the priesthood.
THE CARROLL SCHOLARSHIP
The Reverend Thomas Carroll, of Oil City, Penn-
sylvania, bequeathed five thousand dollars in 1899.
The terms of the bequest specify that the income shall
be used to aid a student from Oil City.
THE FORD SCHOLARSHIP
In 1900 Mrs. Catherine Ford, of Chicago, gave to
the University certain properties for the maintenance
of worthy students. The income arising from this
gift now supports fully two students annually. By
the wish of the donor nominations for these scholar-
.ships are made from St. Jarlath’s parish, Chicago.
THE PATRICK O’BRIEN SCHOLARSHIP
When Mr. Patrick O’Brien, a distinguished citizen of
South Bend, Indiana, died in August, 1913, the family,
28
BULLETIN OF THE
interpreting his oft-expressed wish, established a
memorial scholarship for which college men and gradu-
ates are eligible. This scholarship may be adminstered
as two half-scholarships. There are no conditions at-
tached to it except that the holder be of collegiate
standing at least.
PRIZES
The following prizes and honors within the gift
of the University are awarded annually under con-
ditions named below. Any of these prizes may be
withheld by the Faculty if the student incur serious
censure for violating any of the regulations of the
University.
THE QUAN MEDAL FOR CLASSICS
A gold medal is yearly given to the student who has
obtained the best record in the Senior year of the
Classical Program. The medal is the gift of Mr. William
J. Quan, of Chicago, and is awarded only on condition
that the record of the student is notably good in all
the courses of instruction prescribed for the Senior
year.
THE MASON MEDAL
A gold medal, the gift of Mr. George Mason, of Chi-
cago, is awarded each year to the student of Carroll
Hall whose scholastic record is superior to that of his
fellows. Observance of the University regulations
counts in the award. The prize may be withheld if
in the opinion of the Faculty the record of the student
has not reached a high standard.
THE MEEHAN MEDAL FOR ENGLISH ESSAYS
A gold medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor Meehan, of
Covington, Ky., is awarded every year to the Senior
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
29
(undergraduate) who presents the best essay in
English. Essays offered in competition may be
on any subject approved by the head of the Depart-
ment of English. Those offered for graduation may
be presented in competition. The Faculty will not
award the prize, if, in the opinion of the judges selected,
the best essay is not notably meritorious.
THE BREEN MEDAL FOR ORATORY
This prize is the gift of the Honorable William P.
Breen, of the Class of ’77, and is annually awarded
to the student who excels in oratory. The award is
made by a committee of three selected by the Faculty
and after a public competition. The winner repre-
sents the University in the Indiana State Oratorical
Contest held the third Friday in every February. No
student may receive the Breen Medal more than once,
but the winner of this prize may compete again for
the honor of representing the University in the State
Contest.
There is also a ten-dollar prize offered for the winners
of the Freshman, Sophomore, Junior and Preparatory
contests in oratory.
THE MARTIN J. McCUE MEDAL FOR
CIVIL ENGINEERING
The McCue Medal for Civil Engineering, presented
by Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the Class
of ’87, is awarded to the student of the Department of
Civil Engineering who has obtained the best record in
all the courses prescribed in the program. The medal is
awarded only when the student’s record has attained a
fixed standard. In computing the grades the courses in
mathematics count fifty per cent. Only students
who have been in residence for four full years are
eligible to compete for this prize.
30
BULLETIN OF THE
THE MEDALS FOR ELOCUTION
Two prizes known as the Joseph A. Lyons Medal
and the Patrick T. Barry Medal are awarded every
year for excellence in elocution. The award is made
after competition in public. In order to be eligible
to compete, students must have followed at least
two of the courses of instruction in public speaking.
One of the medals was founded in memory of Professor
Joseph A. Lyons, of the Class of ’62, who served the
University as Professor of Elocution and Oratory
from 1872 to 1888. The other is a gift of Mr. Patrick '
T. Barry, of Chicago.
THE DOCKWEILER MEDAL FOR PHILOSPHY
The Dockweiler Medal for Philosophy presented by
Mr. Isidore Dockweiler of Los Angeles, California, is
awarded to the student of the College of Arts and Letters,
Senior year, who submits the best essay on some philo-
sophical theme. The medal will be not be awarded
unless the essay attains a certain standard of ex-
cellence.
THE PRIZE FOR PUBLIC DEBATING
A prize of fifty dollars is awarded to three students,
who, in the opinion of a committee of judges usually
from without the Faculty, excel in debating. The
award is made after a competition in public. The prize
is divided, twenty-five dollars going to the student who
receives the highest marks, fifteen dollars, to the second,
and ten dollars to the third. A debating medal is
awarded to each of the students who represent the
University in the principal intercollegiate debates of
the year.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s, class standing
will be sent to parents and guardians quarterly.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
31
The Faculty maintains that an education which
gives little attention to the development of the moral
part of a youth’s character is pernicious, and that
it is impossible to bring about this development where
students are granted absolute relaxation from all
Faculty government while outside the class-room.
A young man must learn obedience to law by the actual
practice of obedience. Here students are required
to obtain permission for any departure from the regular
daily routine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are enforced at the University.
1.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without permission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him. -
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Easter.
3.	Students are required to report at the Uni-
versity immediately after arriving at South Bend.
This rule is binding not only at the beginning of the
scholastic year, but at all other times when leave of
absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in
South Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of
rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating
in examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, im-
morality, the use of profane and obscene language,
and an unauthorized absence from the University
limits are among the causes for expulsion. In case
of suspension or expulsion for such offences, no fee
shall be returned.
32
BULLETIN OF THE
5.	The use of cigarettes is strictly forbidden, a
second offence being punished by suspension for one
month. '	. ■
6.	No branch of study shall be taken up or dis-
continued without the consent of the Director of
Studies.
7.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brown-
son, Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age; '
boys seventeen years of age or older are placed in
Brownson Hall; those over thirteen and under seven-
teen, in Carroll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St.
Edward’s Hall.
8.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls
as have received from their parents written permission
to use tobacco.
9.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin,
Corby or Walsh Halls leads to suspension.
10.	Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
Catholic institution, and all students are required
to attend divine service in the University Church at
stated times.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense
of study will not be permitted; but students are ex-
pected to take part in outdoor sports.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is per-
mitted with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
of professionalism.
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 33
of the Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve
the right of a final decision on all questions concern-
ing athletics. The Faculty Board will determine
the amateur standing of the members of the athletic
teams and apportion the finances. By this means
indiscreet and unconsidered action of students will
be checked.
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Each winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have ad-
dressed the University in the past few years may
be noted five Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli,
Martinelli and Falconio, Monisgnors Agius and Bon-
zano; Cardinal Farley; Archbishops Ireland,.Riordan,
Keane, Glennon, Christie and Spalding; and Bishops
Alerding, McQuaid, Maes, Muldoon, O’Gorman, Shan-
ley, Hickey, Hanna, MacSherry and Schrembs. There
were also such noted European churchmen as the Abbe
Felix Klein, Bishop John S. Vaughan and the foremost
of living English historians, Cardinal Gasquet; also men
of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford, Marion Crawford,
Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van Dyke, Seumas
MacManus, William Butler Yeats, James Jeffrey Roche,
Hamilton Wright Mabie, Opie Read, Leland Powers,
Henry James and the Rev. John Talbot Smith; and
such men of affairs as ex-President Taft, ex-Vice-Pres-
ident Fairbanks, ex-Senator Hill, ex-Senator Beveridge,
ex-Attorney General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, ex-
Representative J. Adam Bede, the Honorable William
P. Breen, ex-Representative Bourke Cockran, Dr. James
C. Monaghan, Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward
McDermott, His Excellency Wu Ting Fang, William
Jennings Bryan, Senator B. F. Shively, Max Pam,
34
BULLETIN OF THE
Governor J. Harmon, Hannis Taylor and Chief-Justice
Fitzpatrick of Canada.	’
Concerts are given frequently by organizations from
without.
During the year 1913-14 the University offered a
course of public lectures and concerts in Washington
Hall, in addition to the regular and special lectures
required by the courses of instruction. The course
was as follows:
DRAMATICS
Dec. 11. “As You Like It.”—UNIVERSITY DRAMATIC
CLUB.
Feb. 10 .“Troubles in Camp.”—EX-PHILOPATRI ANS.
Mar. 17. “Gold and Blue Serenaders.”—THE PHILOPATRIANS
Apr. 14. “What’s Next?”—SENIOR CLASS.
CONCERTS
Sept. 10. Elbel’s Concert Band.
“	12.	Elbel’s Concert Band.
Oct. 25. Chicago Male Quartet.
Nov. 15. Chicago Operatic Quartet.
Dec. 6. The Four Artists Company.
Jan. 17. The Bailhe Trio.
“	23.	Ingersoll’s Symphony Orchestra.
“	28.	Charles Saunders—English	Tenor.
“	31. Enrico Aresoni-Tenor and Martin Bruhl, Accompanist.
Mar.	11.	Zoellner String Quartet.
"	17.	Concert—University Band.
“	30. Josef Konecny and Zerga Pampari Opera Company.
LECTURES
Oct. 8.	Lecture—The Honorable Woodbridge N. Ferris, Gover-
nor of	Michigan.
“	15.	Newman	Travelogue—“London.”
“	22.	Newman	Travelogue—“Florence.”
Nov.	5.	Newman	Travelogue—“Paris.”
“	10. Lecture—Dr. James J. Walsh.
“	12.	Newman	Travelogue—“Rome.”
Dec. 2. “College and University Libraries”—Prof. Theodore W.
Koch. .
"	12. “Some Changing Phases of the Newspaper.”—James
Keeley of the Chicago Tribune.
Jan. 19. * “Glacier National Park.”—L. D. Kitchell.
“	26. “The Glacial Epoch and Its Remarkable Animals.”—
Dr. Oliver G. Hay of Washington.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
35
Jan. 31. “Alfred Tennyson.”—Wilfrid Ward.
Feb. 3. “Forty Years in Journalism.”—Slason Thompson.
u 4. “Ralph Waldo Emerson.”—Bliss Perry.
“	11. Hugh O’Donnell Travelogue—“Athens, Damascus and
'	Constantinople.
“	13. “College Athletics.”—Harvey Woodruff, Sporting Editor
of The Chicago Tribune.
“	14. Thomas A. Daly—Poet and Humorist.
iVIar. 4. Presentation of the Sword of General Thomas Francis
Meagher—Addresses by President Cavanaugh, The
Honorable Roger C. Sullivan, Senator Thomas J.
Walsh of Montana and The Honorable W. Bourke
Cockran.
Apr. 1. Edward Elliott—“The Fortune Hunter.”
“	18. “What Need is there of a Pope?”—The Right Reverend
Monsignor Robert Hugh Benson, D. D.
"	28. Lecture—Dr. James J. Walsh.
May 1. “The Orators and Oratory of Shakespeare.”—Henry L.
Southwick.
“	30. ■ Address—The Honorable Samuel M. Ralston, (Governor
of Indiana.
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies
in the University which do such creditable work at
their meetings and in preparation for them that their
work takes on the nature of added courses of instruction.
In each society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser.
An Inter-Hall League has been formed and public
debates are held annually. The College of Law also
has an active debating club. The training in public
speaking has always received special attention at
the University. In twenty-three public debates with
other universities and colleges Notre Dame has but
twice met defeat—the decision of the judges in the
greater number of these debates being unanimous. The
University Dramatic Club and other organizations
stage at least three plays annually for presentation in
public. The University Band, the University Orchestra
36
BULLETIN OF THE
and the University Glee Club also appear regularly
in concerts.
Students of the Departments of Civil and Electrical
Engineering and Architecture have each a society in
which papers on engineering subjects are read and
discussed. Men prominent in their profession are in-
vited to lecture to these societies. The Pharmaceutical
Society meets to discuss subjects of interest in the world
of pharmacy. The students of Journalism have two
active clubs. In other departments where no such
formal organization has been effected similar results
are reached by seminars.
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (Payable on first entrance)....$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending of
Linen, per school year.........•........... 400.00
PAYABLE ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only).....$10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition..............250.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to inter-
collegiate games and contests throughout the year. ... 10.00
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course. 5.00
Spending money or orders for clothing will not be given students
unless a deposit has been made for this purpose.
In this First Payment must also be included any Extra Expense
the student m'ay wish to incur, such as charges for Private Room
or Special Courses (listed below).
PAYABLE ON JANUARY 15
Balance on Board and Tuition...................$150.00
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time of absence at the opening of
the Terms, September and February. The charge of $400.00 covers
the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic Year. The
latter sum is accepted as an entirety for Tuition during the Scholas-
tic Year, and will not be refunded in whole or part if the student
be dismissed for wilful infraction of the fundamental rules and
regulations herein stated and hereby brought to his notice; and so
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 37
likewise in the event of his leaving and absenting himself from the
University at any time or for any cause without proper permission.
However, an exception is made if it seems to be expedient for him
to go to his home because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees
will not be conferred on any student whose account with the Uni-
versity has not been settled.
OPTIONAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE
For the Scholastic Year:
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free, but a nominal
charge of $15.00 is made to defray expenses connected
with the care of rooms; Freshmen..$50.00 and upwards.
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made
only to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions;
that is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the Prepara-
tory and Freshman work, otherwise regular rent will be charged
for rooms. Similarly, only unconditioned Freshmen are allowed
the special rate quoted above.
Preparatory Students..................$80.00 and upwards.
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves to
the regular courses of the programs they have entered, any of the
following may be taken at the rate mentioned per Scholastic Year,
payable in advance. The charges are pro rata for any portion of
the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
ment................$60.00
Use of Piano for Advanced
Students.............$30.00
T elegraphy............25.00
Typewriting, Full Course 20.00
one month............ 5.00
Phonography........... 15.00
Applied Electricity....25.00
Vocal Culture......... 75.00
Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
Cornet, Clarinet or Man-
dolin.................$30.00
Lessons on Violin....... 60.00
*Use of each Instrument 5.00
Physical Culture
Artistic Drawing.........25.00
Elocution, Special Course
Per Term............... 10.00
“Scholastic’ ’—College
Paper................... 1.50
Library Fee................ 5.00
.........$5.00
Laboratory fees listed later in this catalogue.
GRADUATION FEE
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00; Commer-
cial Course, $5.00.
*As the string and band instruments available for rent are few, students tak-
i.ng, up these studies are advised to furnish their own instruments^	‘
38
BULLETIN OF THE
REMARKS
Term bills and, other accounts are subject to sight draft if not paid
within ten days after they have been rendered.
The Entrance Fees, cost of Books, Music and Laboratory Fees,
etc., are required with first payment.
Remittance should be made by draft, post-office money order or
express, payable to the order of the President.
Checks on local banks are not desirable, and exchange will be
charged in all cases.
Sorin, Corby, Walsh, Brownson and Carr oil Halls are closed dur-
ing the months of July and August. Students wishing to spend their
Summer Vacation under the care of the University authorities can be
accommodated at San Jose Park, Lawton, Michigan.
The charge for the vacation at San Jose Park is $100.00. Classes
two hours per day are included in this arrangement. Special tutor-
ing at professors’ rates.
A limited number of student waiters can be received at reduced
rates. For conditions of entrance see paragraph page 17 entitled
St. Joseph’s Hall.
College of Arts and Letters
Department of Classics
Department of Letters
Department of History and Economics
Department of Journalism
Department of Commerce
40
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARTS AND LETTERS
From the founding of the University in 1842 to the
establishment of the College of Science in 1865 only one
program of prescribed courses of instruction leading
to a degree was offered to undergraduate students.
It embraced studies in the ancient and modern languages,
in English literature, in history, the natural sciences
and in mathematics. Graduate students might ob-
tain a degree of master for advanced study one year
after obtaining the Bachelor’s degree. The group
of courses was known as the Program of Classics, and
the degrees of Bachelor of Arts and Master of Arts
were conferred.
The demand of students for greater freedom of
election in courses led the University in 1886 and again
in 1898 to form other programs whch embraced certain
studies not contained in the Program of Classics, but
which lead to degrees equivalent to the degree of Bach-
elor of Arts. In the matter of election of courses the
student is permitted greater freedom in the program
leading to the degree of Bachelor of Letters than in
either of the other groups. The degrees now under
charge of the College of Arts and Letters are the ordi-
nary degrees of Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Letters,
Bachelor of Philosophy, Bachelor of Philosophy in.
Journalism, Bachelor of Journalism in Commerce and
Master of Arts.
The location of the University offers special ad-
vantages of study. It is situated on a beautiful tract
where cultivation has aided nature, two miles from the
noisy bustle of city life. This removal from the dis-
tractions of the town gives the students opportunity
to pursue their work with the quiet and concentration
needed for earnest study. Nearly all the Faculty
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
41
live on the grounds of the University, dine with the
students, and are accessible to them at any time.
The benefits derived from this constant association
with professors can not be overestimated.
Facilities for work are found in the libraries and
laboratories. The main library has sixty-five thousand
bound volumes well selected and several thousand
pamphlets and manuscripts. The leading literary and
scientific reviews are kept on file. Books may be
borrowed under easy regulations. The library contains
ample reading room space and is well lighted so that
students may use it at night. It is open every day
from 8:00 A. M. to 9:00 P. M. There are also special
collections of books in the various departments of
the College, mainly works of reference. Under certain
conditions the city library of South Bend is open to
use by students of the University.
The department of experimental psychology occupies
a suite of three rooms on the ground floor of Science
Hall. The use of a dark room and a silent room may
also be had when need requires. The equipment includes
apparatus and material sufficient for repeating all
the exercises in Sanford’s Manual, and most of the
exercises in Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Vol-
ume 1. The laboratory is supplied with hot and cold
water, gas and electricity. At the beginning of the
course, the aim is to give students a wide acquaintance
with such familiar apparatus as the chronoscope, kymo-
graph, plethysmograph, automatograph, primeter,
campimeter, tone variator, Galton whistle, Galton
bar, etc. For the study of special perceptions, there
is a set of stereoscopes, pseudoscopes, and accom-
panying slides. Provision is also made for the in-
vestigation of pressure, temperature, pain, taste, smell
and muscular sensation. Experiments in the field
&
42
BULLETIN OF THE
of auditory perception are facilitated by three sets
of organ pipes, a set of Koenig’s movable tuning forks
and resonators, and various kinds of metronomes.
For the study of physiological psychology, a complete
set of models of the nervous system is at hand, to-
gether with microscopic slides of the various parts
of the brain and spinal cord.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Applicants who do not present properly attested
certificates for preparatory work must take entrance
examinations.
ENGLISH. Part of the examination time is given
for answering questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in the preparatory courses in English;
the remainder, for writing an essay.
LATIN. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; Cicero, four orations against Cataline;
Vergil, Aeneid, six books; translations at sight of pass-
ages from Cicero and Caesar; translations of English
into Latin based on the texts of the authors.
GREEK. (For students in the Department of Classics
only) Grammar, etymology and general rules of syntax;
Xenophon, Anabasis, four Books; Homer, at least three
books; prose composition based on text.
HISTORY. A general knowledge of the outlines of
Greek and Roman History and of Medieval and Modern
History, as set out in the texts used in high schools
and other secondary schools. American History.
CIVIL GOVERNMENT. The Constitution of the
United States; Federal.Government and State Govern-
ment.
ALGEBRA. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
9
s
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 43
GEOMETRY. Plane and Solid, including the solu-
tion of simple original problems and numerical examples
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, New-
comb, or an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY, PHYSIOLOGY, BOT-
ANY, ZOOLOGY. Elementary.
CHEMISTRY. Elements of inorganic chemistry.
The preparation in this subject must include a course
of lectures and recitations, and laboratory work in
which at least fifty experiments have been exemplified.
PHYSICS. Elementary. The preparation in this
subject should include a course of lectures illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book similar
to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory work is
required. In both chemistry and physics the laboratory
note-book must be presented.
FRENCH AND GERMAN. A two years’ course of
either German or French is required for entrance on
the Program in Letters, the Program in History and
Economics, and the Program in Journalism and Com-
merce.
Students who have had no preparatory Latin and
Greek, and are desirous of taking the Program of
Studies in the Department of Classics, and students
who have but one language and are lacking in language
credits will be able to supply this deficiency in classes
specially .arranged for that purpose.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year of
the Department of:
CLASSICS
English......................4	Mathematics................2
Latin........................4	History....................2
Greek........................3	Science....................1
LETTERS, HISTORY AND ECONOMICS, JOURNALISM
English...................4	History. . ..............2
Latin.....................2	Mathematics..............2
French or	German.........2	Science..................1
Elective.......................3
44
BULLETIN OF THE
THE DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM
Special attention is called to the fact that early
in the year 1912 Mr. Max Pam of Chicago, established
a Chair of Journalism in the University and made possi-
ble a special program of studies leading to the degree
of Bachelor of Philosophy in Journalism.
In ‘accordance with Mr. Pam’s purpose in founding
this chair, the program is designed to prepare young
men technically for Journalism and at the same time
equip them with the essentials of a liberal education.
It is hoped that graduates of this course will have
acquired such familiarity with the practical work of
newspaper making as will render their services imme-
diately valuable; at the same time they are required to
be well grounded not only in the ethics of their pro-
fession, but in general philosophy, in language study,
in the principles of economics and in world politics as
well as the particular currents in the national life of
our own country.
The entrance requirements are practically the same
as for the other departments in the College of Arts
and Letters, but the Director of Studies shall have
power to admit as a special student any young man
who is believed capable of profiting by the work of the
course.
Practical experience in newspaper work will be fur-
nished by the course itself. There are opportunities
for experience as local correspondents of the large
newspapers in Chicago, Detroit, Indianapolis, Pitts-
burgh, and other large cities. The Scholastic, a weekly
publication,' founded in 1867 and issued at the Uni-
versity, affords excellent opportunity for editorial
writing and department work.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 45
THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
The course in Commerce or Business Administra-
tion requires four years of collegiate work, and leads
to The degree of Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce.
The primary aim of this course is to equip the student
for practical work in the business world. The work
of necessity, is of a specialized nature, and yet the
studies are so arranged as to afford the student all
the advantages of a real college training.
A comparison of the studies listed under the course
in Commerce, with the studies provided for students
following work in Journalism and Economics, will
show the possibility of choosing a course that does not
necessarily limit the student to the special work in
accounting or business methods. A substitution of
classes is possible, in such a way as to provide for expert
training along the lines of Banking, Advertising, Mer-
cantile and Secretarial work. Special attention is
given to the Modern Languages.
In addition to the regular studies provided in this
course, frequent lectures are given by prominent bus-
iness men. This has been found to be a very success-
ful method of bringing into the class-room a practical
knowledge of the commercial world.
SHORT PROGRAM IN COMMERCE
This course is designed to meet the needs of those
who have neither the preparation nor the time to follow
out the subjects of the regular program. All the prac-
tical topics are given. Only those whose maturity
of mind will insure their profiting by this work are
eligible to enter on the short program in Commerce.
46
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF ARTS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Latin	5	160	I	Latin	5	160	I
Greek	4	154	I	Greek	4	154	I
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
History	4	156	. la	History	4	156	lb
Elocution	1	148	HI	Elocution	1	149	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Latin	5 '	160	II	Latin	5	2 160	II
Greek	4	154	II	Greek	4	154	II
Philosophy	4	177	I	Philosophy	4	177	II
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Elocution	1	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Latin	4	160	III	Latin	4	160	III
Greek	4	155	III	Greek	4	155	III
Philosophy	4	178	III, IV	Philosophy	4	178	V, VI
English	3	150	III	English	3	150	III
Elocution	1	149	VI	Elocution	1	149	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Latin	4	160	IV	Latin	4	160	IV
Greek	4	155	IV	Greek	4	155	IV
Philosophy	4	178	VII	Philosophy	4	178	VIII
English	3	151	IV	English	3	151	IV
Elocution	1	149	VII	Elocution	1	149	VII
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
47
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF LETTERS
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg.	Course			Pg.	Course
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Latin or	5	160	I	Latin or	5	160	I
Elective*	5			Elective	5		
History	4	156	la	History	4'	156	lb
Elocution	1	148	III	Elocution	1	149	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Philosophy	4	177	I	Philosophy	4	177	II
Latin or	5	160	II	Latin or	5	160	II
Elective*	4			Elective	4		
History	4	156	II	History	4	156	II
Elocution	1	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	150	HI	English	3	150	HI
Latin or	4	160	HI	Latin or	4	160	III
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Philosophy	4	178	III, IV	Philosophy	4	178	V, VI
History	4	157	III	History	4	157	HI
Elocution	1	149	VI	Elocution	1	149	VI
SENIOR YEAR
English	3	151	IV	English	3	151	IV
Latin or	4	160	IV	Latin or	4-	160	IV
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Philosophy	4	178	VII	Philosophy	4	178	VIII
Elective	4			Elective	4		
Elocution	1	149	VII	Elocution	1	149	VII
* French,^German or Spanish.
48
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg.	Course			Pg-	Course
History	4	156	I	History	4	156	I
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	. I
Language*	5			Language	5		
Polit. Science	4	185	I	Polit. Science	4	185	I
Elocution	1	148	HI	Elocution	1	149	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
History Polit. Science	4 4	156 186	II II	History Polit. Science	4 4	156 186	II Illa
Philosophy	4	177	I	Philosophy	4	178	II
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Language* Elocution	4 1	150	VIII	Language Elocution	4 1	150	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
English	3	150	HI	English	3	150	HI
Polit. Science	4	186	IV	Polit. Science	4	158	VI
Philosophy	4	178	HI, IV	Philosophy	4	178	V, VI
History	4	157	HI	History	4	157	HI
Elocution	1	149	VI	Elocution	1	149	VI
SENIOR YEAR
History	4	157	IV	History	4	157	IV
Polit. Science	4	188	VII,VIII	Polit. Science	4	189	XorXI
Philosphy	4	178	VII	Philosophy	4	178	VIII
English	3	151	IV	English	3	151	IV
Elocution	1	149	VII	Elocution	1	149	VII
* Latin, French, German or Spanish.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
49
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN JOURNALISM
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Journalism	4	159	I	Journalism	4	159	I
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Pol. Science	4	185	I	Pol. Science	4	185	I
History	4	156	I	History	4	156	I
Language*	5			Language	5		
Elocution	1	148	III	Elocution	1	149	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Journalism	4	159	II	Journalism	4	159	II
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Pol. Science	4	186	II	Pol. Science	4	186	III
Philosophy	4	177	I	Philosophy	4	177	II
History	4	156	II	History	4	156	II
Elocution	1	150	VIII	Elocution	1	150	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Journalism	4	159	III	Journalism	4	159	III
English	3	150	III	English	3	150	III
Pol. Science	4	186	IV	Pol. Science	4	187	V
Philosophy	4	178	III, IV	Philosophy	4	178	V, VI
History	4	157	IV	History	4	157	IV
Elocution	1	149	VI	Elocution	1	149	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Journalism	4	159	IV	Journalism	4	159	IV
English	3	151	IV	English	3	151	IV
Business Law	4	189	V	Pol. Science	2	187	IX
Pol. Science	4	187	vn, vm	Pol. Science	4	188	Xor XI
Philosophy	4	178	VII	Philosophy	4	178	VIII
Elocution	1	149	VII	Elocution	1	149	VII
* Latin, French, German or Spanish.
50
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN COMMERCE
.	FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term z	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
English	v	3	150	I	English »	3	150	I
Pol. Science	4	185	I	Pol. Science v	4	185	I
History	4	156	II	History -	4	156	II
Language*	5			Language	5		
Elocution	1	148	HI	Elocution	1	148	III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
English	v	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Pol. Science	4	186	HI	Pol. Science	4	186	IV
History	v	4	157	HI	History	4	157	HI
Language*	4			Language	4		
Business Law	4	189	V	Insurance	2		
/	JUNIOR YEAR
Journalism	4	159	III	Journalism	4	159	III
Pol. Science	4	187	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VIII
History	4	157	IV	History	4	157	IV
Language*	4			Language	4		
Accounting	4	189	I	Accounting v	4	189	II-
SENIOR YEAR
English	3	151	V	English	3	151	V
Pol. Science	4	188	XII	Pol. Science	4	189	XIII
Pol. Science	4	189	XIV	Pol. Science	4	188	XI
Philosophy	1	179	X	Philosophy	4	179	X
Lang. Readings	4			Lang. Readings	' 1		
Accounting	4	189	III	Accoun ting.	4	189	IV-
SHORT PROGRAM IN COMMERCE
FIRST YEAR
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Accounting	4	189	I	Accounting	4	189	II
Bus. Law	4	189	V	Insurance	2		
Language*	10			Language	10		
History	4	157	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
SECOND YEAR
English	3	151	V	English	3	151	V
Pol. Science	4	188	XII	Pol. Science	4	189	XIII
Accounting	4	189	III	Accounting	4	189	IV
Language*	8			Language	8		
Elective	5			Elective	5		
* French, German or Sp anish.
College of Science
Department of Biology
Department of Chemistry
*
if
Department of Pharmacy
I
52
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF SCIENCE
The College of Science was established as a distinct
department of the University in 1865. The curriculum
of the student was largely elective for the three succeed-
ing years, but in 1867 there was formed the group of
prescribed courses now known as the Program of
General Science. Six programs are now offered to
undergraudate students. The degrees under charge of
the Faculty in this college are the ordinary degrees of
Bachelor of Science, Bachelor of Science in Biology,
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry, Bachelor of Science
in Pharmacy, Graduate in Pharmacy and Pharma-
ceutical Chemist. The Master’s degree and the Doctor’s
degree are conferred under the usual conditions.
THE BIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
/ •
The department of Biology occupies the second
floor of Science Hall, and consists of four large lecture
rooms and laboratories well ventilated and lighted.
There are also private laboratories set apart for graduate
students. The lecture rooms are furnished with charts
and models necessary in teaching the different courses.
The arrangement of windows is such that the room
can be easily darkened so that stereopticon and lantern
slides on the subjects of botany, zoology and physi-
ology may be used. The laboratories are equipped with
compound and dissecting microscopes. In each room
there is a library of works of reference pertaining to
biological subjects. The general laboratory of micros-
copy, histology and embryology is supplied with
compound microscopes and the equipments indis-
pensable in these courses. The zoological collection
fills sixteen large cases and represents typical forms
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
53
of all the orders and genera of vertebrate and inver-
tebrate animals.
For work in anatomy, besides a large collection of
charts, there are anatomical models of all the parts of
the human body, which can be taken apart for close
study. Besides there are several mounted and un-
mounted human skeletons. Students pursuing courses
in human anatomy at the University study under a
practicing surgeon and have the privilege of attend-
ing surgical clinics in St. Joseph Hospital of South
Bend.
The bacteriological laboratory is completely equipped
with compound microscopes, incubators, sterilizers, and
all the improved apparatus employed in thorough
and careful work in bacteriology. Apart from the
others is a laboratory of photo-micography which con-
tains a perfect photo-micographic instrument for
experimentation, photographing microscopic objects,
making lantern slides, etc. A large and fully equipped
dark room adjoins this laboratory.
THE BOTANICAL LABORATORIES
The botanical laboratory occupies the northwest
end of Science Hall. It is well lighted and particularly
well adapted to microscopical and histological work.
The department is supplied with the usual requisites
of a working laboratory such as compound microscopes
and accompaniments for each student, the utensils
and apparatus necessary for embedding by the paraffi^
celoiden, soap methods, and mounting of preparations
by the balsam, Venetian turpentine and glycerine
methods. There are besides, microtomes, camera
lucida, micrometers and aquaria for plant cultures so
that the typical algae and fungi may be had alive
for laboratory use in all stages of development through-
54
BULLETIN OF THE
out the year. Special devices for the regulating and
modifying of artificial light are at hand enabling the
student to work on dark as well as clear days. Ad-
vanced students are supplied with Abbe condenser
and oil immersion lenses. The laboratory is well stocked
with histological material, and nearly all the types
of common plant families of the phanerogamia and
cryptogamia are preserved after proper fixing. The
material for demonstration of the fresh water algae
is particularly good and abundant. The supply of
material in Venetian turpentine and glycerine is valu-
able, as it supplies permanent mounts in a few minutes’
work. There are also hundreds of specimens of rare and
common types in paraffin. A herbarium containing
over ten thousand species of flowering plants, and about
five thousand cryptogam, supplies the needs of the
classes in systematic botany. The collection includes
plants from all parts of the United States and Canada,—
the Pacific coast and the Southern States are especially
well represented. Besides there is a large collection of
fungi, marine algae, mosses, a large collection of several
hundred species of myxomycetes from the Eastern
and Central States, also nearly a thousand specimens of
lichens from all parts of the United States and Europe.
The latter herbarium is well stocked with the local
flora, and special facilities are on hand for the study
of the compositae. In the museum are found specimens
of American and tropical woods and fruits. The labora-
' tory for more advanced work accommodates about
twenty-five students. It is supplied with eight working
tables covered with plate glass or soapstone, and each
place is supplied with lock and key. The lecture room
in botany has a seating capacity of seventy-five. The
total seating capacity of laboratories is about sixty.
The botanical library connected with the department
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 55
and conveniently situated in the same building contains
over 1200 volumes mostly the classics of the science,
some scarcely to be duplicated anywhere in the country.
These original editions of the great makers of botany,
some, autograph copies, range from the year 1492 to
the present time;, such works as those of Linnaeus,
Tournefort, Caesalpino, Haller, Jussieu, DeCandolle,
Ray, Morison, Parkinson, Lobelius, Dodonaeus, Ruel-
lius, Fuchs, Tragus, Brunfels, Matthiole, Marcellus
Vergilius, Hermolaus Barbarus, Camerarius, Dillenius,
the Bauhins, Gregor Mendel, Persoon, Leeuwenhoeck
Malpighi, Nehemiah Grew, Adanson, Ventenat, Willde-
now, and many others. Most of these are the rare first
editions.
There are also many magazines with back numbers
all relating to botany. More than 120 current maga-
zines and periodicals at present come to the files of the
department alone, all relating to botany or biology.
These conveniences for botanical research leading to
higher degrees are especially notable, and offer to the
students of the science of systematic botany advant-
ages rather unique.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
The Chemical Laboratory building is situated in
the southeastern part of the grounds and is a large
three story structure devoted entirely to chemistry.
On the third floor are a small stock room and the two
laboratories for general and industrial chemistry,
one capable of accommodating one hundred and fifty
students, the other seventy. The desks are all supplied
with gas, water, suction and the necessary reagents.
On the side tables are general stock and general ap-
paratus, and conveniently placed are small stands
for suction and blast lamps supplied with gas, air blast,
56
BULLETIN OF THE
acetylene. On the third floor also is the large fan
for drawing gases from the hoods, with which all the
laboratories are supplied. In the middle floor are
the main stock rooms where supplies can be obtained
by the students. Here also are the laboratories, lecture
room, drug store, library and museum of the Depart-
ment of Pharmacy. On the first floor are the labora-
tories for qualitative and quantitative analysis with
desks to accomodate sixty-five students, and fitted
with gas, suction, water and blast. Large hood accom-
modations are available and can be utilized to ad-
vantage because of the perfect ventilation _ produced
by the large fans on the top floor. Two small side tables
equipped with air blasts, ordinary gas and acetylene.
To the east of these laboratories are those for physical
and electro-chemistry and special work, such as food
analysis, iron and steel analysis, gas analysis, etc.
The equipment in these laboratories is quite complete.
‘Adjoining these laboratories is a small dark room for
spectroscopic and polariscopic analysis. A large lecture
room to accommodate a hundred and ten students
is in the south end of the first floor. It is provided with
apparatus for stereopticon illustrations, storage batteries,
cylinders of oxygen, carbon dioxide and a complete
set of charts illustrative of the processes employed in
modern chemical industries. Two laboratories adjoin,
one for general organic analysis, the other for special
advanced work. Two wings extend from the main .
building,—one contains the vacuum and pressure
tanks, the acetylene and gasoline gas generators, the
other the balance rooms, in which are the analytical
and assay balances sensitive to the one ten-thousandth
of a gramme, and the library of the Department. The
library contains besides the works of reference on
chemistry, the principal chemical journals on file—
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 57
Berichte, Zentralblatt, the Chemical News, the Journal
of the American Chemical Society, the Journal of the
British Chemical Society, the Journal of Chemical En-
gineering, the Journal of Chemical Industries, etc.
In the large hallway are cases containing a steadily
increasing collection of minerals, chemicals, designed
as illustrations of the substances and processes dis-
cussed in the lectures.
The assaying and mineralogical laboratories are
in a wing of Science Hall. They contain both gas
and fuel furnaces for assaying gold, silver and lead
ores, and also tables for blow pipe analysis. A large
collection of minerals and ores serve to illutsrate the
processes.
THE PHYSICAL LABORATORIES
The department of Physics occupies a suite of three
rooms in the south end of the first floor of Science
Hall and three laboratories in the basement. The
lecture room will accommodate seventy-five students.
For the work in mechanics there is the force table,
inclined planes, Geneva cathetometer, capable of
measuring to the one twenty-five thousandth of an inch,
a large physical balance, standard kilogram, a standard
metre, a dividing engine made by the Geneva society,
an Atwood’s machine, a compound pendulum, a break
circuit recording chronograph, a powerful hydraulic
press with attachments, rotary air pumps and re-
ceivers, a large clock with electrical contact pieces,
several self-winding clocks, mercury barometers and
two aneroid barometers.
For the work in acoustics there are a Mercadier
radiophone, a set of Koenig resonators, a set of electric-
ally operated tuning forks’ by Koenig, a Scott-Koenig
phonautograph, an Edison phonograph of earliest type,
58
BULLETIN OF THE
several sets of vibrating rods, tubes and bells, a large
double siren, a set of very small tuning forks producing
the highest audible sounds, a set of resonators mounted
together with capsules of sensitive flames arranged
for the analysis of complex sounds, a set of Koenig’s
movable tuning forks to draw compound curves on
smoked glass, three sets of organ pipes, four sets of
fine tuning forks, a set of apparatus for manometric
observation of sound phenomena, a large tuning fork
producing the lowest audible sound, an electric metro-
nome, a set of mounted tuning forks carrying small
mirrors arranged to perform Lissajou’s experiment,
producing complex curves.
For the work in light there are a complete set of appa-
ratus by Soleil, Paris, for the measurement of the wave
lengths of light by various interference methods, a set
of polarization apparatus, sets of lenses and spherical
mirrors, two heliostats, four spectroscopes, a polariza-
tion saccharimeter, three projecting lanterns for gas
or electric light and 3,000 slides, a set of large Nicol’s
prisms mounted, a large compound prism to form
widely dispersed spectrum, two Rowland gratings
14,000 lines to the inch, a set of photographs of solar
spectrum by Rowland, several cameras with lenses and
attachments, a well equipped dark-room for photo-
graphic work, and a photometric room and equipment.
For work in heat there are Melloni’s apparatus for
measuring radiation, absorption and reflection of heat
complete with a set of prepared substances, standard
thermometers, air thermometers, a steam engine indica-
tor, several calorimeters, apparatus for determining the
coefficient of linear expansion using the optical lever
method.
For work in electricity and magnetism there are an
absolute electrometer, a Holz machine and apparatus
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
59
for illustrating static phenomena, four induction coils,
six bridges of different types, several ammeters and
volt-meter, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard
resistance coils, an historical set of motors showing
evolution of the modern machine from the early forms
of the reciprocating type, ten galvanometers of various
types, a complete X-ray outfit, sets of apparatus for
wireless telegraphy.
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Applicants who do not present properly attended
certificates for preparatory work must take entrance
examinations.
ENGLISH. Part of the examination is given for
answering questions upon the text-books and readings
required in the regular preparatory courses in English;
the remainder for writing an essay.
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. As given in Tarr's
text-book or an equivalent treatise.
PHYSIOLOGY. Martin's Human Body, or an equiv-
alent treatise.
ZOOLOGY, BOTANY. Elementary.
CIVIL GOVERNMENT. The American Constitu-
tion; Federal and State Governments.
HISTORY. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval
and Modern - History. American History.
ALGEBRA. The whole subject as far as logari-
thms, as given in Wentworth's College Algebra, or an
equivalent in the larger treatises of other authors.
GEOMETRY. Plane and Solid, including the solu-
tion of simple original problems and numerical examples,
as given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, New-
comb, or equivalent treatises by other authors.
TRIGONOMETRY. Plane and Spherical.
60
BULLETIN OF THE
CHEMISTRY. Elements of inorganic chemistry.
The preparation in this subject must include a course
of lectures and recitations. A course of at least fifty
experiments in elementary chemistry actually performed
by the pupil.
PHYSICS. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text-book simi-
lar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. In both chemistry
and physics the laboratory note-book must be presented.
GERMAN. A two year course in German is required.
Ability to translate at sight easy German into English
and easy English into German, or
FRENCH. A two-year course in French may be
presented instead of German under the same condi-
tions. Ability to translate readily, rather than an
accurate grammatical knowledge, is expected.
LATIN. Grammar, complete; Caesar, four books of
the Gallic War; translation of English into Latin based
on the text of Caesar.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English......................4
Science......................2
(Chemistry and Physics)
Mathematics.............3X
French, German, Latin.......2
History.....................2
Drawing. ...................%
Elective. . ■...............2
LABORATORY FEES
Bacteriological Laboratory—Bacteriology................$10.00
Biological Laboratory--Zoology I, II, each............. 5.00
Botanical Laboratory—Botany II, IV, each............... 5.00
Chemistry I, VII, each................................. 5.00
Chemistry III, VI, VIII, IX, Xlb, XIc, XIII, each...... 10.00
Chemistry II..............................’........... 15.00
Chemistry IV, V......................................... 20.00
Geology III............................................ 5.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory II, and IV, each...........  20.00
Pharmaceutical Laboratory VI, and VII, each............. 20.00
Physics I, HI, each...................................  5.0Q
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
61
PROGRAM IN GENERAL SCIENCE
The program in General Science is calculated to afford
such an acquaintance with the methods and facts of
modern science as will best enable the student to fit
himself, either for further study of a technical or pro-
fessional kind, or for the activities of business life.
The natural and physical sciences constitute the primary
studies of this program. Grouped about these are
such studies in English, mathematics, and modern
languages, as experience has shown to be necessary
for the intelligent pursuit of science and the attainment
of the object of the program.
Two essays on scientific topics are required of every
student in the Sophomore year and two in the Junior
year.	.
The scientific work of the Senior year is elective.
Advanced courses may be chosen in physics, chemistry,
biology and mathematics.
Every candidate for a degree in the Program of
General Science is required to submit, before the finals
examination, a written thesis upon some subject con-
nected with the elective work of the Senior year. The
subject chosen must have the approval of the professor
in the course selected. The thesis shall contain no less
than five thousand words, and must be satisfactory in
matter and treatment.
Students who complete the required courses, pass the
final examination and present a satisfactory thesis will
receive the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In the schedule an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
62
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM IN CHEMISTRY
This program is intended for students who wish to
obtain such a knowledge of chemistry as may fit them
for professional work either in the laboratory or the
class-room. Though fixed to a great extent, the schedule
of work admits in the Junior and Senior year of some
elective study.
Every candidate for a degree in Chemistry is required
to write an essay in the Junior year on some subject
connected with Chemistry and must submit, at least
four weeks before the final examination, a written thesis
on work covered in his Senior year. This thesis must
contain at least three thousand words.
The degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry is
given to those students who have written an approved
thesis and have passed a satisfactory examination.
In the schedule, an hour means two sixty minute
periods of laboratory work or one of lecture or recitation.
PROGRAM IN BIOLOGY
The Program in Biology has been designed for students
who wish to devote their time largely to biological
pursuits, either as an immediate preparation for the
study of medicine or veterinary science, or with a view
to teaching or otherwise engaging in biological research.
The students in this program are required to prepare an
essay during the first term of the Junior year on some
subject pertaining to biology. Every candidate for a
degree must submit before the final examinations a
written thesis accompanied with original drawings.
Students not preparing themselves for the medical
profession may substitute for the advanced courses in
anatomy and physiology equivalents from either math-
ematics, physics, or English literature.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
63
PROGRAMS IN PHARMACY
There are three programs in Pharmacy: one of two
years, leading to the degree, Graduate in Pharmacy
{Ph. G.); and one of three years leading to the degree,
Pharmaceutical Chemist {Ph. C.}; and one of four years
leading to the degree, Bachelor of Science in Pharmacy
{B. S. in Ph.}.
ADMISSION
Applicants for admission to the short program must
be 18 years of age, and must pass an examination in the
subjects required for the completion of the first year of
high school work. A certificate of work done equivalent
to one year of high school will be accepted instead
of an examination.
For admission to the three year program, in addition
to the age limit, the completion of two years’ preparatory
work is required. Evidence of this work may be shown
by certificate or examination.
For admission to the four year program the same
conditions apply as for entrance to the Freshman year
of any regular program in the College of Science.
METHODS
The subjects studied in this department are intended
to impart a thorough theoretical as well as practical
knowledge of Pharmacy, the work commencing with the
simplest and gradually leading up to the most difficult
and complicated process.
Special attention is given to the little details, which
are essential to success in any professional work and
particularly so in Pharmacy. The student is carefully
drilled in store etiquette, business hints, prescription
work, and dispensing. Neatness and order in all the
64
BULLETIN OF THE
operations and extreme care in the manufacture of
preparations are required throughout the courses.
Attention is given to Animal extracts, Serum-Therapy,
Antitoxins, new Synthetic Remedies and Alkaloidal
Medication.	'
EQUIPMENT
Each desk is supplied with all the apparatus necessary
for ordinary work. Special apparatus is furnished as
required.
The department contains a fully equipped Drug Store
in which the student obtains practically the same ex-
perience that he would get in actual business. A second
year student is placed in full charge. He is required to
furnish supplies for the department, order material,
write business letters, invoice stock, etc. Then at the
end of a specified time he delivers the store in good
order to his successor.
About 2,000 recent prescriptions written by physi-
cians, and taken from the files of a drug store, constitute
a very important part of the equipment. Under super-
vision of the instructor each student is required to
read them and to compound those requiring special
manipulation. The reading room is supplied with all
the leading pharmaceutical journals and books of
reference. The Pharmacognosy room contains speci-
mens of all the official and a great many unofficial drugs
for study and identification.
THESIS
During the third year the student is required to spend
at least two hours a week in original research on a
subject within the domain of Pharmacy. The results
of this work are carefully recorded and must be type-
written and presented to the Faculty as a requirement
for graduation.	.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
65
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Zoology	5	193	I	Zoology	6	193	I
Chemistry	4	126	HI	Chemistry	4	126	HI
Drawing	1	144	VIII	Drawing	1	144	VIII
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Bacteriology "1 Microscopy /	5	122 171	I I	Physiology	5	184	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Botany	5	123	I, II	Botany	5	123	I, II
Physics	5	182	II, HI	Physics	5	182	II, HI
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	126	V
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
JUNIOR YEAR
Geology	2	152	III	Geology	4	162	I
Astronomy	3	121	I	English	3	150	II
English	3	150	II	French or		190	I
French or		190	I	German	5	154	I
German	5	174	I	Elective	4		
Elective	4						
SENIOR YEAR
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Philosophy	4	179	X	Philosophy	4	179	X
Electives				Electives			
in Science	6			in Science	6		
French or		190	II	French or		190	II
German	4	154	II	German	4	154	II
66
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
CHEMISTRY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Chemistry	4	126	HI	Chemistry	4	126	HI
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Language*	5	...	I	Language	5 ‘	...	I
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	122	V
Calculus	5	161	HI	Calculus	4	162	IV
Physics	5	182	II, HI	Physics	5	182	II, HI
Chemistry	6	127	VI	Chemistry	5	128	IX
Gas Analysis	2	• • .	VIII	Gas Analysis	2	. • .	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	7	128	IX	Chemistry	4	129	XI
Chemistry				Chemistry	3	130	XIII
Elective	5			Assaying	4	...	HI
Geology	2	152	III	Geology	4	152	I
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Philosophy History of Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French	4 3 5 2 2	179 129	X XII	Philosophy Chemistry Elective Scientific Readings in German and French Thesis	4 5 2 2	179	X
* French or German
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 67
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
BIOLOGY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJEC TS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Zoology	5	193	I	Zoology	6	192	I
Chemistry	4	126	III	Chemistry	4	126	III
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Language*	5			Language			
Drawing	2	144	VIII	Drawing	2	144	IX
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Microscopy 1 Bacteriology j	5	171 122	I I	Physiology Botany	5 5	184 123	I I, II
Botany	5	123	I, II	Chemistry	3	126	V
Chemistry	3	126	V	Physics	4	182	II, III
Physics	4	182	II, III	English^	3	150	II
English	3	150	II				
JUNIOR YEAR
Botany	4	124	III IV,	Botany	6	124	III, IV
Geology	2	152	III	Geology	4	152	I
Philosophy	4	...	V	Philosophy	4	. . .	V
Chemistry	7	127	VI	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
History	4	158	VII				
SENIOR YEAR
Anatomy	2	115	I, II III	Anatomy	2	115	I, II
Anatomy	4	115		Anatomy	4	115	III
Physiology	6	185	II	Physiology	6	185	II
Zoology Thesis	6	193	II	Zoology Thesis	6	193	II
* Latin, French or German.
68
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
GRADUATE IN PHARMACY
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Pharmacy	8	174	I, H	Pharmacy	8	175	I, II
Chemistry	7	125	II	Chemistry	7	125	II
Microscopy \	c	171	I	Chemistry	2	129	X
Bacteriology /	0	122	I	Physiology	5	184	I
Arithmetic	3	176	IX	Physics	5	182	I
Physics	5	182	I				
SECOND YEAR
Pharmacy	8	175	III, IV	Pharmacy	11	175	IV,V,VI a
Chemistry	4	126	IVb	Pharmacy	2	177	XI
Chemistry	6	127	VI	Botany	5	123	I
Mat’ra Medica	2	...	' VIII	Pharmacog’y	2	176	X
Botany	5	123	I, II	Mat’ra Medica	2	176	VIII
DEGREE: PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMIST
FIRST YEAR
Pharmacy	8	174	I, II	Pharmacy	8	175	I, II
Chemistry	7	125	II	Chemistry	• 7	125	II
Microscopy J	c	171	I	Chemistry	2	129	X
Bacteriology j	o	122	I	Physiology	5	184	I
Arithmetic	3	176	IX	Physics	5	182	I
Physics	5	182	I				
SECOND YEAR
Chemistry	4	126	IVb	Pharmacy	11	175	IV,V,VI a
Pharmacy	8	175	III, IV	Pharmacy	2	177	XI
Chemistry	6	127	VI	Botany	- 5	123	I, II
Mat’ra Medica	2	176	VIII	Pharmacog’y	2	176	X
Botany	5	123	I, II	Mat’ra Medica	2	176	VIII
THIRD YEAR
Pharmacy	6	176	VIb	Pharmacy	5	176	VII
Chemistry	5	128	- IX	Chemistry	5	130	XIV
Geology	2	152	HI _	Urine Anal.	2	127	Vila
Elective	, 5			Toxicology	3	127	Vllb
Thesis				Thesis			
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
69
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
PHARMACY
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Chemistry	. 4	126	III	Chemistry	4	126	III
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Botany	5	123	I, H	Botany	5	123	I, II
Language*	5			Language	5		
Microscopy \	c	171	I	Physiology	5	184	I
Bacteriology J	o	122	I				
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Pharmacy	8	174	I, II	Pharmacy	8	175	L II
Chemistry	3	126	V	Chemistry	3	126	V
Physics	4	182	II, III	Physics	4	182	II, III
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
JUNIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	8	175	HI, IV	Pharmacy	11	175	IV,V,VI a
Chemistry	6	127	VI	Chemistry	2	128	IXc
Pharmacy	2	177	XI	Geology	4	152	I
Zoology	5	193	I	Zoology	5	193	I
SENIOR YEAR
Pharmacy	6	176	VIb	Pharmacy	5	176	VII
Pharmacog’y	3	176	X	Urine Anal.	2	127	Vila
Geology	2	152	III	Toxicology	3	127	VHb
Mat’ra Medica	3	176	VIII	Mat’ra Medica	2	176	VIII
Philosophy Thesis	4	179	X	Philosophy Thesis	4	179	X
College of Engineering
Department of Civil Engineering
Department of Mechanical Engineering
Department of Electrical Engineering
Department of Mining Engineering
Department of Chemical Engineering
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 71
THE COLLEGE OF ENGINEERING
In the industrial development of a country the
engineer takes an important part. Many new industries
are springing up, and the great activity in those already
established throughout the world creates a demand for
the services of trained engineers.
The programs of studies in the five departments of
engineering at Notre Dame are arranged to give a
knowledge of the fundamental facts and theories that
are applied in engineering work. Mathematics is fore-
most among these requirements. The natural sciences
receive their share of attention, arid due importance
is given to language in arranging the programs of
studies.
Laboratory work and field work give a certain amount
of practice in the application of the theory to actual
physical conditions. These conditions are made to
correspond as closely as possible to the real work of
the engineer.
A student who has no liking for mathematics should
not be encouraged to take up an engineering course.
The successful engineer is one who thinks clearly and
acts accurately. Clear thinking is necessary to master
mathematical subjects and skill and accuracy are
acquired by applying the results of mathematical
calculations to particular practical cases in laboratory
work.
Five regular programs of studies have been arranged:
one leading to the degree of Civil Engineer, one to the
degree of Mechanical Engineer, one to the degree of
Electrical Engineer, one to the degree of Engineer of
Mines, and one to the degree of Chemical Engineer.
Special Short Courses in Electrical and Mechanical
ngineering are offered to accommodate those who wish
72
BULLETIN OF THE
to fit themselves for practical work in the shortest
possible time.	-
The various laboratories are equipped with the most
approved forms of instruments and appliances and con-
siderable time is given to technical work. The equip-
ment for each department will be found described and
referred to on the succeeding pages of this catalogue.
In addition to the work in the laboratories and the
power plants of the University, students are taken on
inspection tours to the important engineering works
in the neighborhood. Several of the largest manufactur-
ing plants in the world are in South Bend or the vicinity.
In the schedules of studies one hour credit is given
for each recitation or lecture which requires from one
to two hours’ preparation. Two hours’ actual time in
laboratory work, shopwork or drawing is required
for each hour on the schedule.
EXPENSES
In addition to the regular fee for matriculation, board,
tuition, lodging, etc., as given on page 36, the regular
students in the five Engineering Programs are required
to pay laboratory fees to cover, in part, the cost of
materials consumed and the deterioration of the appara-
tus used.
LABORATORY FEES
Assaying II...........................................$15.00
Chemistry 1............................................ 5.00
Chemistry II.......................................... 15.00
Chemistry III, VI, VIII, Xlb, XIc,	XIV, XV, each...... 10.00
Chemistry V........................................... 20.00
Chrystallography IV.................................... 2.00
Electrical Laboratory I, II and	IV,	each........... 15.00
Gas Engine Laboratory................................. 10.00
Mechanical Laboratory.................................. 5.00
Metallurgy 1........................................... 5.00
Mineralogy II......................................... 15.00
Mineralogy III......................................... 5.00
Petrography V.......................................... 5.00
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
73
Physical Laboratory I and III, each................... 5.00
Physical Laboratory IV.............................   15.00
Shopwork, all four-year programs, per term........... 15.00
Surveying III, V, VIII, each......................     5.00
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Applicants who do not present properly attested
certificates for preparatory work must take entrance
examinations.
ALGEBRA. The whole subject as far as logarithms,
as given in Wentworth’s College Algebra, or an equivalent
in the larger treatises of other authors.
GEOMETRY. Plane and Solid, including the solu-
tion of simple problems and numercial examples, as
given in the works of Wentworth, Chauvenet, Newcomb, or
an equivalent in treatises by other authors.
TRIGONOMETRY. Plane and Spherical.
CIVICS. The- Constitution of the United States;
Federal Government -and State Government.
HISTORY. General outlines of Ancient, Medieval
and Modern History. American History.
GEOGRAPHY. Physical, as much as is contained
in Tarr’s text-book or an equivalent treatise.
PHYSICS. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures, illustrated
by experiments and recitations from a text-book like
Carhart and Chute’s or Gage’s. Laboratory work required.
CHEMISTRY. The elements of Chemistry. La-
boratory work required.
BOTANY, PHYSIOLOGY, AND ZOOLOGY. Ele-
mentary.
MODERN LANGUAGE. Engineering students
must present a two years’ course in German, French
or Spanish.
ENGLISH. Part of the examination time is given
74
BULLETIN OF THE
for answering questions upon text-books and readings
required in the preparatory courses in English; the re-
mainder for writing an essay.
Subjects required for entrance to Freshman year:
English....................4
Mathematics...............3X
Science....................2
History.....................2
French or German............2
(Chemistry and Physics)
Drawing...................X
Elective..................2
THE DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL ENGINEERING
The courses of instruction are designed to prepare
students for a thorough and systematic training in the
sciences and in the principles of Civil Engineering, to
perform intelligently the duties of their profession,
either in the office or in some of the responsible positions
superintending the construction and operation of public
works. To secure these results the student is given,
not only a sound theoretical training in the courses of
study, but he is also required to study the practical
applications of the principles upon which the theory
is based. The first two years are devoted to the study
of mathematics and the theoretical branches. The last
two years are given to the study of applied courses—
practical work in the laboratory and field, as much as
possible, being required throughout the course.
Sufficient instruction is given in French and German
to enable the student to read easily and intelligently
professional works in these languages; and the study
of English is pursued until the student is qualified to
prepare acceptable themes on professional subjects.
Instruction based upon standard text-books on engineer-
ing is given throughout the course by means of lectures,
recitations, practice in laboratory, drawing-room and
field. This work is largely supplemented by assigning
to the student, for solution, practical problems bearing
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 75
directly upon the subject matter discussed in the class-
room and requiring original investigation, thus training
the student to habits of independence and awakening
his interest in the work of his profession.
The Department is provided with all the instruments
necessary for effective work in the different branches of
field engineering. The instrumental outfit consists of
surveyor’s transits, engineers’ transits with levels and
vertical circles attached to telescopes, also solar attach-
ments, engineers’ wye levels and a plane table with all
the attachments, clinometers, chains, tapes, leveling
rods, etc., and one Olson’s cement testing machine.
After the student is taught the use and adjustment of
the instruments, surveys, elementary in character, are
commenced and continued progressively until the more
difficult principles and methods are understood. In a
similar manner is instruction given in the courses of
sanitary engineering, hydromechanics, resistance of
materials, bridges and roofs, etc., thus familiarizing the
student with practical engineering subjects, and the
most improved method of execution and designing. A
large drafting room offers facilities for the proper
study of all the courses in mechanical drawing and
design. The room is splendidly lighted from above, well
ventilated and contains the latest form of drawing
tables. There are -suitable arrangements for blue-
printing, both by natural and electric light.
The constantly growing city of South Bend, with a
population now of sixty thousand, is one of the most
important manufacturing cities in the Middle West.
- Some of the largest plants in the world are situated here.
One of the greatest water power developments in the
United States is located a few miles from the University.
Special advantages are thus afforded to students for the
inspection of the most modern engineering works now
76
BULLETIN OF THE
completed or in process of construction. The City
Engineer is one of the examining board.
A thesis on some subject' approved by the head of .
the Department connected with the course of study, is
required of each student as a condition of graduation.
The thesis must embody the results of original research.
THE DEPARTMENT OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
The Program of studies in Mechanical Engineering,
leading to the degree of Mechanical Engineer, is open
to young men who wish to prepare themselves for the
designing of machinery, with its appurtenances, and
for the successful management of power plants. As the
program requires a thorough knowledge of pure and
applied Mathematics, as well as of Physics, only those
capable of adapting themselves to these requirements
should take it up. The program of the department is
modeled in the twofold belief that a thorough funda-
mental training is best secured by a study of the practical
application of the principles involved, as well as of the
theoretical principles.
The work of the department, conducted in connection
with other departments elsewhere described, consists of
the study, by text-book or lectures, of the materials
used in mechanical engineering, accompanied by the
science of pure mechanical kinematics, which traces
the motions of connected parts, without reference to the
cause of such motions, to the work done or energy
transmitted. This is succeeded by machine design, which
is a direct development of kinematics, and the course
continues throughout the Junior and Senior years.
The courses in Shopwork are most complete. The
first year’s work is confined to practice in the wood-
shop, in which the principles of carpentry, turning, and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
77
pattern-making are taught. When the students have
become sufficiently skilled in woodwork, they take up
the work of the foundry, blacksmith shop, and machine
shop. A systematic course of training is provided, which
advances the student by easy steps until he has mastered
all the details of the work.
The latter part of the Senior year is largely taken up
in the preparation of a graduation thesis. Here espe-
cially the student is taught to depend as much as possible
upon his own resources and abilities in exercising his
ingenuity. This is the culminating effort of the program
embodying its chief results, and is expected to show
considerable originality.
Every possible advantage is given the student wishing
to specialize in some of the branches of engineering,
toward furthering his knowledge and ability in the
particular field desired. He may take up general machine
design, steam engine design, specifications and contracts,
installation and erecting, original research or gas
engine design and operation. A systematic curriculum
of study will be outlined in each individual case leading
to a complete and proficient knowledge of the work
undertaken.
Access may be had to all machinery and apparatus
of the University contained in the various power plants
and laboratories elsewhere described, and every effort
is made by the authorities to make the work as com-
prehensive as possible.
The laboratories and shops are equipped with all
necessary apparatus and machinery. The wood shop is
supplied with modern work-benches fully equipped with
the smaller tools necessary for carpentry, lathes for
turned work, two jig saws, a pony planer, a joiner, an
edge moulder and shaper, a universal trimmer, circular
saw with dado and drilling attachments and band saw,
78	BULLETINOFTHE
the whole forming an adequate equipment for a thor-
ough mastery of joinery, scroll work and pattern making.
The power for operating the machine shop is derived
from the electric plant of the University, two ten-horse
power motors being used for this purpose, from which
power is transmitted to the various machines by line
shafting running the entire length of the building. The
latest improved lathes have been provided, nine in
number, varying from a five-inch swing in the smallest
to a large engine lathe with sixteen foot bed, having a
capacity for work twenty-eight inches in diameter.
Two drill presses, a large planer, a shaping machine
and a Brown and Sharp milling machine complete the
outfit, thus making the machine shop a model of its
kind. There have been completed lately in the machine
shop seven new screw cutting lathes of fourteen-inch
swing, a high speed bench hand lathe, one twenty-
eight inch Sibley and Ware drill press, one horizontal
8x12 slide valve steam engine and a wood milling
machine. The equipment is added to regularly, and
recently a Seneca Falls lathe of fourteen inch swing
and eight foot bed, a Crown high speed lathe, a Toledo
punch press and a complete new set of chucks, drills,
taps, mandrels and lathe dogs have been installed to
meet the additional requirements of the courses. It
is the policy of this department to refrain as much as
possible from exercise work, and each student is usually
taking part in the construction of some new machine
or engaged on general repair work for the University,
a plan which is regarded superior to a fixed routine of
exercises.
The blacksmith shop has the usual complement for
teaching forging, annealing, welding and tool-making.
In the foundry work the student is instructed in the
proper disposition of gates and sprues, the mixing of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
79
sand, setting up and drawing simple and complicated
patterns and core making. This is supplemented with
lectures on the proper mixing and heating of cast iron
for the various purposes for which it is used.
In addition to the facilities afforded by the shops,
the engineering students have access to the steam and
power plants of the University which have been recently
remodeled and made to compare favorably with the
best contemporary practice. The main steam plant
contains two batteries of ten horizontal tubular boilers,
aggregating 1200 horse power. In connection with the
boilers is installed the necessary testing apparatus as
follows: a Worthington hot water meter for measur-
ing the amount of feed water, a feed water thermometer
for getting temperature of same, a high range ther-
mometer for temperature of generated steam, a throttl-
ing calorimeter for ascertaining the quality of steam
and an automatic recording pressure gauge giving a
continuous record of the boiler pressure. Provision is
made for finding the temperature and pressure of the
flue gases by means of a pyrometer and draught gauge
and for obtaining samples of flue gas for analysis with
Fisher’s analysis apparatus. These, with a Carpenter
-coal calorimeter for determining the heating value of
fuel, comprise a full and complete equipment for giving
the student an intimate knowledge of the practical part
of boiler management and testing. A Webster feed
water and purifier, two compound duplex pumps, two
vacuum pumps working on the' heating system, two
large Worthington fire pumps 16x9x12 with a capacity
of 1500 gallons per minute, with numerous separators,
steam traps, automatic reducing valves, etc., complete
the apparatus in the main steamplant. A McEwen
high speed automatic engine, an Armington and Sims
engine of smaller type and several low speed horizontal
80
BULLETIN OF THE
engines with polar and roller planimeters, indicators,
reducing wheels, slide rules and other necessary instru-
ments, are used in studying the operation of the steam
engine, distribution and economy of steam, regulation,
valve setting and heat wastes.
There have been recently donated to the mechanical
laboratory about four hundred brass and iron fittings
used in steam and gas engineering, including feed water
injectors, sight feed lubricators, oil cups, safety valves,
relief valves, different varieties of globe valves, gate
valves, tees, elbows, crosses, unions, bushings and
reducers’. Many of these have been sectioned to show
the dimensions, and facilitate a study of the internal
structure and arrangement of parts.
In the gas engine laboratory are installed one hori-
zontal eleven horse power four-cycle engine com-
pletely equipped for experimental runs, with indicator
reducing motion, prony brake, scales and thermometers,
a five horse power two-cycle vertical gas engine of the
marine type, a four horse power horizontal four cycle
gasoline engine with circulating pump and cooling
tower, one Motsinger auto-sparker with induction coil,
one Apple ignition dynamo with storage battery, two
Hendricks automatic igniters together with carburetors,
spark plugs, spark coils, indicators, and all necessary
equipment for a complete study of the gas engine.
Recent additions include the latest type Kingston
carburetor and muffler, a National storage battery,
Pittsfield induction coils and dash coils, two Wizard
magnetos with brass armored spark coils, one four
engine cylinder distributor and a number of improved
standard and meter spark plugs.
A set of castings for an eight horse power engine to
be operated, by alcohol has been placed in the machine
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 81
shop, and the work of designing and building the
engine will be undertaken by the students.
In the department library, standard authors may be
consulted and the current literature on engineering
topics is kept on file for reference, as well as a complete-
line of trade catalogues.
SHORT PROGRAM IN MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING
Theory, Design and Operation of Gas, Oil
and Vapor 'Engines.
This program is devoted exclusively to the study of
explosive motors, in theory, design, construction and
operation.
The rapid progress made in recent years in the design
of gas engines, together with their adaptation to the
supplying of power for almost every requirement, has
led to the establishment of this program for young men
wishing to make a special study of this branch of
engineering.
The essential work of the first year consists of a
general descriptive study of the different types of
engines with discussions on the general management,
operations, care and special uses to which this type
of motor may be applied. During the second year the
general theory of the gas engine is studied and the.
design of an engine for specific purposes is undertaken
‘ by each student.
The laboratory work will consist in part of indicator
practice, determination of mechanical and thermody-
namic efficiency, speed regulation, and economy. To
these are added studies in various kinds of ignition,
operation of vaporizers and carburetors and practical
management of internal combustion engines. A con-
82
BULLETIN OF THE
siderable part of the work will consist of the complete
adjustment and successful operation on the test-block,
under varying loads of the engine built by the student.
Experiments in flame, electric and hot tube ignition,
operation of vaporizers and carburetors, construction
of spark coils and care of motors will complete the
work.
The courses in shopwork are intended to give practical
application to the theories advanced in the class room
by the complete building and testing of a gas engine
of a design to be selected by the demonstrator. Each
student is required to prepare the patterns and score
boxes, machine the castings and forgings, assemble the
complete engine and submit a comprehensive report of
a test on the machine constructed. If the report proves
satisfactory a certificate of proficiency is given to the
student and the gas engine becomes his own property.
For admission to this program the student should
have completed courses XlVa and XlVb in shopwork
and must certify by examination or certificate evidence
of a knowledge of algebra as far as logarithms, plane
geometry, and his further ability to pursue the studies
of the first year. In case a student has not had this
preparatory work, he may, with special effort complete it
in addition to the regular work of the course. Candi-
dates shall also write a short essay, which must be
satisfactory in spelling, sentence and paragraph construc-
tion.
THE DEPARTMENT OF ELECTRICAL
ENGINEERING
The remarkable development of electrical industries
during the past few years has created a demand for men
skilled in the theory and practice of electrical and
mechanical work. The study of the subjects arranged
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
83
in the program of Electrical Engineering is intended
to give a general education as well as a special training
in the technical branches involved in the various prac-
tical applications of electricity in industrial operations.
General theory is given in lectures and by recitations
from standard ^ext-books. In the laboratories and shops
the operations explained in the class-room are performed
by the student in doing which he acquires skill in han-
dling tools and instruments, and obtains a working
knowledge of the principles involved. Careful records
of tbe work done in laboratories are kept by the student
and are handed in for suggestions and corrections at
the end of every week.
The University is located near a great manufacturing
centre in the growth of which electricity is taking a
very prominent part. Electric power generated by
steam is now being distributed and utilized in several
large plants, some using the three phase alternating
system, while others are using the direct current.
Several of the largest water power developments in
the Middle West are situated within a few miles of the
University. From this system we receive three phase
alternating currents which furnish light for our buildings
and grounds, and power for driving motors in our
shops and printing office, etc., all of which are operated
by electricity.
There are numerous other transmission lines and
electrical power plants operated by water power within
a short distance. Our students visit these plants accom-
panied by an instructor who points out the applications
of the text-book theory in the design .of electrical
apparatus and its operation under actual working
conditions.
Each condidate for graduation must present at the
end of the Senior year an acceptable thesis embodying
84
BU[LLETITN OF THE
the results of an extended original research on an
engineering subject, chosen at the beginning of the
year, with the approval of the head of the department.
The descriptive part must be typewritten, and bound
in book form together with the drawings.
The equipment for the laboratory work in electrical
engineering includes dynamos typical of the various
classes, accessory apparatus and measuring instruments
as follows: An A. C. induction motor arranged to
operate on single phase circuits with a condenser com-
pensator, a high frequency 1000 V. 33 K. W. com-
posite wound Wood alternator of the latest type with
exicatter and a full set of switchboard instruments,
several transformers of different capacity, a high tension
transformer for testing insulation, an Edison bipolar
10 K. W. 125 V. generator, a Thompson-Houston arc
light machine with regulator and fifteen lamps, a Wood
arc machine, capacity 25 lights, an Edison bipolar,
3 K. W. 125 V. dynamo with special winding, a Van
Depoele compound wound dynamo, a special A. C.
5 H. P. dynamo or rotary converter, a series wound
dynamo with wrought iron field, number of small
motors, a 10 H. P. induction motor, three phase, 220
volts 60 cycles, a motor generator set consisting of
an adjustable speed 8 H. P., D. C. motor, direct con-
nected to a special multiphase, revolving field A. C.
dynamo.
A three K. W. three phase rotary converter, an eight
K. W. rotary converter, a set of inclined coil alternating
current portable instruments, voltmeter, ammeter and
wattmeter, telegraph relays, sounders, switchboard,
etc., telephone apparatus including subscribers sets of
various modern types, a fifty drop manual switchboard
complete and a lot of separate drops, jacks, switches,
lighting arresters, etc., automatic telephone switchboard
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
85
containing first and second selector and connector
switches, interrupter heat coils, etc., and three sub-
scribers sets—with this apparatus all the operations
involved in the operation of a 10,000 system may be
performed, a complete central energy switchboard,
several lines and subscribers sets and a selective signal-
ing four party line outfit, a collection of historical sets
including Reis’ transmitter and receiver, a standard
portable bridge, a common portable bridge, a testing *
battery, a power or foot lathe with wood turning tools,
drills and hand tools for metals, a set of tools for metal
working, a calibrating lamp rack, a D’Arsonval and
common galvanometers, Ballistic galvanometer, stand-
ard condenser, etc., for capacity work, resistance boxes,
standard meghoms, etc., high resistance Thompson
galvanometer, standard cells, voltmeter arranged for
the comparison of incandescent lamps, a plug switch-
board controlling all circuits, a plating dynamo and a
buffer for cleaning and polishing work to be plated,
solution tank, etc.,—in all, a complete outfit for elec-
trotype work, a hot wire ammeter, twelve ammeters
and voltmeters mostly of the Weston type for direct
current measurements, a Kohlrausch bridge for measur-
ing battery resistance, etc., a lot of arc lamps series
and constant potential, open and enclosed arcs. Watt- ,
meters of various types, a collection of motor starting
rheostats, several sets of parts of incandescent lamps
showing the various stages in their manufacture, a
large collection of porcelain insulators used in electrical
work including a lot of insulators for high tension
transmission lines, a lot of armature core disks, trans-
former core stampings, dynamo frames, formed coils,
brush holders, pole pieces, samples of insulation, com-
mutator segments, etc., used in dynamos of good
design, donated by leading manufacturers of electrical
<7
86
BULLETIN OF THE
machinery, a case of marked samples of wire insulators,
lamps and other construction materials, a library of
practical books of reference and files of leading period-
icals and trade publications, a Cooper Hewitt mercury
vapor lamp, a high frequency Telsa coil and condenser,
a working model of the induction motor, an armature
winding model mounted to rotate in bipolar and multi-
polar fields, a storage battery 25 cells with universal
switch to connect for various voltages.
For the work of electricity and magnetism in the
courses in physics there are the following: An absolute
electrometer, a Holtz machine and apparatus for illus-
trating static phenomena, four induction coils, six
bridges of different types, several ammeters and volt-
meters, one 2,000 lb. electro magnet, standard resistance
coils, a historical set of motors showing evolution of
the modern machine from the early form of the recipro-
cating type, ten galvanometers of various types, a
complete X-ray outfit, a set of apparatus for wireless
telegraphy. For further apparatus consult pages 57,
58 and 59 of this catalogue.
For the work in chemistry, drawing and shop work,
• the equipment and facilities will be found described on
pages, 55, 56 and 75.
SHORT PROGRAM IN APPLIED
ELECTRICITY
Students who do not wish to take the languages and
higher mathematics required in the regular four-year
program should take up the Short Program, which
may be completed in two years. The studies are arranged
to give an accurate knowledge of the fundamental
theories of electricity and magnetism, as well as a
certain amount of skill in handling electrical machinery
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
87
and appliances. Algebra, geometry, trigonometry, and
elementary physics are included, for they are necessary
in order to carry on successfully the practical work
of designing, manufacturing and testing or operating
electrical apparatus. Training in this practical work is
given in the drafting room, the machine shops, and in
the electrical and physical laboratories.
The actual conditions of the commercial application
of electricity to the distribution of light and power
are learned by testing, repairing and making additions
to the University plant, and by visiting the numerous
electric establishments in the vicinity, accompanied by
an instructor.
The study of the principles of mechanical drawing is
taken up early in the program and sufficient practice is
given to enable the student to make working drawings
and to follow them in the construction of apparatus in
the shops and laboratories.
Applicants for admission to the Short program should
be at least 17 years of age. They should have a fair
knowledge of the subjects taught in the common schools,
especially arithmetic and algebra, as far as logarithms
and plane geometry. They shall also write a short
essay which must be satisfactory in spelling, punctua-
tion, sentence and paragraph construction.
When the required studies have been satisfactorily
completed, a certificate of proficiency is issued.
The laboratory fees for students who are taking the
regular work in the program, shall be as given on page
72.
THE DEPARTMENT OF MINING ENGINEERING
The wonderful growth and expansion of the mining
industry, not only in this country but in Mexico, Cen-
tral and South America, has created a constant demand
88
BULLETIN OF THE
for trained men who have a thoroughly practical as
well as theoretical knowledge of mining operations.
The aim of this department is to give the student
sufficient training in the various technical branches of
mining to enable him to project and successfully carry
through a mining enterprise.
The course of studies for the degree of Mining En-
gineer includes the essential subjects of Mechanical
Engineering, particularly those which have special
prominence in mining work; for the economical oper-
ation of any mine depends to a great extent upon the
judicious selection and proper operation of the machinery
in the power plant, mill and smelter. Likewise the
subjects of Civil Engineering with but few excep-
tions, are embraced in the mining course, for the reason
that many of the problems of Civil Engineering must
be solved in the laying out. and directing of mining
work. Plans and surveys of the surface improvements
and underground workings of a mine are made by the
Mining Engineer.
In addition to these subjects the course includes the
following special branches: Crystallography, Mineral-
ogy, Petrography, Physical and Chemical Geology,
Economic Mining Geology, Metallurgy, Ore Dressing,
Assaying and a thorough study of Inorganic Chemistry
in its application to mining and metallurgy.
Throughout the course the object is not only to
present clearly the theory underlying each subject,
but to fix it in the mind of the student by practical
work in the laboratory, shop, drafting room and in
trips to the mining districts where the student becomes
familiar with the practical application of the principles
laid down in the text-book and lectures.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 89
The subject of the thesis required in this course
must be along the line of mining and consist of original
research work in one of its special branches, to be
approved by the head of the department.
THE DEPARTMENT OF CHEMICAL
ENGINEERING
Chemical manufacture has developed so rapidly and
grown so exacting that there has arisen a demand for
men who not only can create and improve chemical
processes strictly so-called, but who can deal with the
problems of construction and maintenance as far as
they are related to the chemical industries. This often
demands a broad knowledge of the effect of chemical
forces on materials of construction such as the ordinary
engineer does not usually possess and which can come
only from a detailed study of chemical laws and chemi-
cal action applied not only to laboratory methods but
also to technical processes. To prepare young men
for such work the course in Chemical Engineering
has been designed. The student taking up this course
is given a thorough training in chemical principles
similar to that outlined in the Course in Chemistry
except that the laboratory period is somewhat shortened.
To this training is added a certain amount of the theory
and laboratory practice in Mechanical Engineering
sufficient for the needs of chemical industries, together
with a consideration of electrical currents as used in
chemical manufacture.
90
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CIVIL ENGINEERING
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg.	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Language*	5	. • ■	I	Language*	5	• • •	I
Chemistry	4	126	III	Chemistry	4	126	III
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	I
				Surveying	2	132	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	161	III	Calculus	4	162	IV
Des. Geometry	3	131	I	Des. Geometry	3	137	I
Surveying	1	c	132	IV, V	R. R. Survey’g	5	133	vu, via
Geodesy	j	O	133	VI	Physics	5	182	II, III
Physics	5	182	II, III	Drawing	1	143	V
Drawing	1_	143	V				
JUNIOR YEAR
Analytic Mechanics	5	134	VIII	An. Mechanics Mechanics of	2	134	VIII
Geology	2	152	III	Materials	3	134	X
Drawing	2	143	VI	Geology	4	152	I
Astronomy	2	121	I	Drawing	2	143	VII
Philosophy	4	179		Philosophy	4	179	X
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Engineering	5	136	XII	Engineering	5	136	XII
Hydromechan.	3	138	XVI	Hydromechan.	3	138	XVI
Bridges, Roofs	5	137	XIV	Graph. Stat.	5	137	XV
Sanitary Eng.	2	136	XIII	Sanitary Eng. Roads, Pav’mt Thesis	2 2	136 135	XIII XI
♦French., German or Spanish
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
91
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MECHANICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Language*	5	• • •	I	Language*	5	. • •	I
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	I
Chemistry /	4	126	III	Chemistry	4	126	III
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
/ Calculus	5	161	III	Calculus	4	162	IV
Drawing '	2	142	II	Drawing	2	142	II
Physics	5	182	II, III	Physics	5	182	II, III
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Shop work	3	168	XlVd
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
JUNIOR YEAR
An. Mechanics	5	134	VIII	Hydromechan.	2	138	XVI
Kinematics	3	165	V	Meeh’s of Mat.	3	134	JC
Physics:				Mach’n Design	2	165	VI
Elec. Measure’t. *	1	183	IVa	Valve Gears	1	165	VIb
Calorimetry ✓	1	184	IVb	Elec. Lab.	2	146	VI
Shopwork	3	168	XlVe	Shopwork	3	168	XlVf
Philosophy	4	179	X	Philosophy	4	179	X
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
SENIOR YEAR
Materials of Engineering	2	163	II	Steam Power Plants	4	164	III
Thermodynam.	4	163	I	Steam Boilers	3'	164	IV
Steam Power				Thermodynam.	4	163	I
Plants	4	164	III	Surveying	2	132	II, III
Mechan’l Lab. /	‘3	166	VIII	Thesis			
Shopwork	3	168	XlVf				
♦French, German or Spanish
92
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg.	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Language*	5	• . •	I	Language*	5	• . .	I
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	I
Chemistry	4	126	III	Chemistry	4	126	III
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	161	HI	Calculus	5	162	IV, V
Des. Geometry	2	142	HI	Des. Geometry	2	142	HI
Physics	5	182	XIVc	Physics	5	182	II, III
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
JUNIOR YEAR
Dynamo Mach.	5	146	VI	Dynamo Mach	4	146	VI
Anal. Meeh.	5	134	VIII	Elec. Lab.	2	146	VI
Kinematics	3	165	V	Hydromechan.	2	138	VIII
Physics:				Meeh’s of Mat.	3	134	VIII
Elec. Measure’!.	1	183	IVa	Mach’n Design	2	165	VI
Calorimetry	1	184	IVb	Shopwork	3	168	XlVf
Shopwork	3	168	XlVe	Philosophy	4	179	X
Philosophy	4	179					
SENIOR YEAR
Dynamo Mach.	4	146	III	Dynamo Mach	4	146	HI
Thermodynam.	4	163	I	Electrical Lab.	4	146	IV
Electrical Lab.	4	146	IV	Designing	2	146	V
Designing Power	3	146	"V	Thermodynam. Illuminating	4	163	I
Transmission Electric Ry. Thesis	1	149	VIII IX	Engineering Thesis	1	148	XII
*French, German or Spanish
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 93
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
MINING ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Chemistry	4	126	III	Chemistry	4	126	III
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	I
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Mining Eng.	3	170	I	Mining. Eng	3	170	I
				Surveying	2	132	II, III
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	161	III	Calculus	4	162	IV
Surveying	I	4	132	IV, V	R. R. Survey’g.	5	133	Vil, Vlll
Geodesy	/		133		Physics	5	182	II, III
Physics	5	182	II, III	Chemistry	3	126	V
Chemistry	3	126	V	Drawing	1	143	V
Drawing	1	143	V	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
History	4	158	VII				
JUNIOR YEAR
Anal. Meeh.	5	134	IX	Meeh, of Mats.	3	134	XI
Mineralogy	3	152	n	Hydromechan.	2	138	XV
Drawing	2	142	ii	Mineralogy	3	152	II
Mineralogy	2	152	in	Drawing	2	142	II
Crystall’phy	5	152	IV	Geology	4	152	I
Philosophy	4	179	X	Mine Survey’g.	2	170	II
				Philosophy	4	179	X
SENIOR YEAR
Ore Dressing	3	169	IV	Assaying	5	169	II
Metallurgy	3	169	I	Economic			
Phys.&Chem.Ge.	3	153	VI	Mining Geol.	2	153	VII
Petrography	2	153	V	Graph. Static.	5	137	XV
Gas Engines	5	167		Petrography	2	153	V
Mat. of Engin’g.	2	163	II	Eng. & Boilers	3	166	IX
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Thesis			
SUMMER WORK
(To be done during the summer preceding the Senior Year)
This course consists of actual Mining Engineering practice in the mines, under
the direction of the head of the department. Each student is required to make
a complete, accurate underground survey with a mining transit, connecting the
mine traverse with one on surface, through vertical and inclined shafts; . A-study
of the different methods of mining in several mines are made with special atten-
tion given to Geology in its relation to economic mining; ore dressing mills and
metallurgical plants are carefully inspected to familiarize the student with the
best concentrating and smelting methods. Sixty hours a week for four weeks.
During the summer of 1913 the course was conducted in Northern Ontario
mining districts as follows:—at the Cobalt Silver Mines, Kirkland and Porcupine
Gold Mines, Sudbury Nickel and Copper Mines, and the Sellwood Iron Mines,
where the class had full access to the varied mining methods, smelters and cyanide
mills.
94
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
CHEMICAL ENGINEER
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
Chemistry	4	126	HI	Chemistry	4	126	III
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	I
Language*	5	• , •	I	Language*	5	. . .	I
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Calculus	5	161	HI	Calculus	4	162	IV
Physics	5	182	II, III	Physics	5	182	II, HI
Drawing	2	142	HI	Drawing	2	142	HI
Chemistry	4	126	V	Chemistry	4	126	V
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
JUNIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	127	VI	Chemistry	5	130	XV
Anal. Meeh.	5	134	VIII	Meeh, of Mats.	3	134	X
Kinematics	3	165	VII	Hydromechan.	2	138	XVI
Drawing	2	142	II	Chemistry	2	128	VIII
Philosophy .	4	179	X	Steam Boilers	3	164	IV
Physics:				Philosophy	4	179	X
Elec. Measure’t.		183	IVa	Drawing	2	142	II
Calorimetry		185	IVb				
SENIOR YEAR
Chemistry	5	128	IX	Chemistry	5	128	IX
Chemistry	3	130	XIII	Chemistry	4	129	XI
Chemistry	3	130	XIV	Chemistry	3	130	XIV
Thermodynam.	4	163	I	Thermodynam.	4	163	I
Mech’l. Lab.	2	166	VIII	Thesis			
♦French, German or Spanish
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
95
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg.	Course
Geometry	5	212	E	Trigonometry	5	212	F
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	I
Shop work	3	168	XIVc	Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
Chemistry	5	125	I	Chemistry	5	125	I
Physics	5	182	I	Physics	5	182	I
Gas Engines	5	167	X	Vapor Engines	5	167	X
SECOND YEAR
Gas Engine Design	15	167	XI	Gas Engine Design	10	167	XI
Gas Power Plants	3	166	VII	Gas Engine Laboratory	3	167	XIII
Gas Engine Construction	3	167	XII	Gas Engine Construction	3	167	XII
		-		Engines and Boilers	3	166	IX
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR SHORT PROGRAM
IN APPLIED ELECTRICITY
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg.	Course
Geometry	5	212	D	Geometry	5	212	D
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	I
Shopwork	3	168	XlVa	Shopwork	3	168	XlVb
Physics	5	182	I	Physics	5	182	I
Applied				Applied			
Electricity	5	145	I	Electricity	5	145	I
SECOK				[D YEAR			
Trigonometry	5		F	Engines and			
Designing	3	146		Boilers	3	166	IX
Shopwork	3	168	XIVc	Designing	3	146	V
Dynamo				Shopwork	3	168	XlVd
Machinery	5	146	III	Dynamo			
Applied				Machinery	5	146	III
Electricity	5	145	II	Applied		145	
				Electricity	5		II
96
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF ARCHITECTURE
Architecture is, fundamentally, a fine art; but it is a
fine art that may be expressed on so large, a scale that
a deep and comprehensive knowledge of engineering
science is necessary to make its expression stable.
The Faculty of the College now offers three under-
graduate programs and two graduate programs to men
able to furnish the entrance requirements. The pro-
gram in design requires four years for completion and
is offered to students wishing to specialize in design—
the degree is Bachelor of Science in Architecture; the
program in construction is the same length and is
offered to men wishing to specialize in construction—
the degree is Bachelor of Science in Architectural
Engineering. Graduate years are offered in both pro-
grams, and upon completion, Master’s degrees are
conferred. A Short Program covering two years is
offered to students finding it impossible or inexpedient
to devote to school work the time required for com-
pleting the programs leading to degrees. Upon com-
pletion of the Short Program a Certificate of Proficiency
is given.
The general scheme of the courses provides for work
in the drafting room continuously for four or five hours.
In the Senior Year and in the Short Program the class-
room requirements are less and the time to be spent
in the drafting-room correspondingly lengthened.
Students matriculating for the Short Program or
either of the complete programs must be at least eigh-
teen years of age and must have completed the work
preparatory to the programs either in the Preparatory
School of the University or in an accredited school;
or, entrance may be by examination at the University
on the first two days of the Fall Term.	'
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
97
Students may not matriculate with more than one
condition, and any condition interfering with the
routine of the courses must be worked off privately.
For students matriculating with advanced standing
there must be a corresponding increase in the age-limit.
Students taking the work of either of the graduate
years must have received their Bachelor degree in
Architecture, or in Architectural Engineering from
Notre Dame or another School of Architecture of
equal standing. The University will confer the Master’s
degree on her own graduate students not in residence
at the end of one year if that time is spent in an atelier
of the first order or in travel abroad following an
approved program of study and investigation; or at
the end of not less than two years if that time is spent
in practice and the University’s requirements are com-
plied with.
EQUIPMENT
The equipment of the College of Architecture, from
a small beginning, is rapidly becoming more and more
complete. There are a number of signed drawings—
some from the Ecole de Beaux-Arts, others from arch-
itects of national reputation; a large elaborate model
complete in all its details of the New Cook County
Court House in Chicago; photographs, engravings,
plaster models, reference books and manufacturers’
catalogues and samples. The collection, however,
needs to be increased faster than the resources of the
University will permit. Philanthropic friends of Notre
Dame can not give money, or its equivalent, for a
better purpose. The endowment of a Travelling Fellow-
ship, preferably for the study of European Ecclesias-
tical Architecture, will be a benefaction of the utmost
value. One thousand dollars will provide for one man
for one year.
98
BULLETIN OF THE
ENTRANCE SUBJECTS
Applicants who do not present properly attested
certificates for preparatory work must take entrance
examinations.
ENGLISH. Part of the examination time is given
for answering questions upon the text-books and re-
quired readings in the preparatory courses in English;
the remainder for writing an essay.
ALGEBRA. Fundamental operations, simple equa-
tions, involution and evolution, radicals, radical equa-
tions and quadratic equations, including everything
up to logarithms, as given in Wentworth'1 s College Algebra,
or of an equivalent in the larger treatises by other
authors.
GEOMETRY. Plane and Solid.
TRIGONOMETRY. Plane and Spherical.
HISTORY. A general knowledge of the outline of
Ancient, Medieval and Modern History.
GEOGRAPHY. Physical, as much as is contained
in the ordinary text-books.
PHYSIOLOGY. Martin's Human Body, or an equi-
valent.
BOTANY, ZOOLOGY. Elementary.
CHEMISTRY. Elements of inorganic chemistry,
as given in high schools of good standing. Laboratory
work is required.
PHYSICS. Elementary. The preparation on this
subject should include a course of lectures illustrated
by experiments, and recitations from a text book
similar to Carhart and Chute's or Gage's. Laboratory
work is required.
CIVICS. Elementary.
FRENCH. A two years’ course in French is re-
quired. Ability to translate French into English, and
easy English sentences into French. Or,
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 99
GERMAN. A two years’ course in German is. re-
quired. Ability to translate German into English, and
easy English sentences into German.	'
DRAWING. A knowledge of the use of drawing
instruments, of projection drawing and elementary'
freehand.
Subjects required for Freshman standing:
English....................4
Mathematics...............3X
Science....................2
(Chemistry and Physics)
History....................2
French or German...........2
Drawing....................X
Elective...................2
THE PROGRAM IN DESIGN
It has been the aim of the College in offering this
program so to arrange it that the student pursuing
it will have upon completion a liberal education, a
practical working knowledge of Construction, and a
systematic and thorough training in Architectural
Design and Composition.	'
The course is built up around the work in the
drafting-room where half of the student’s time is
spent. The work in Design, beginning in the Fresh-
man year with the study of the orders and simple
problems involving their combination and use, and
continued in the three following years by means of
minor and major problems involving the planning of
all classes of building from the simplest to the most
monumental, is supplemented and rounded out by
exercises in the various methods and media of render-
ing and by a thorough course in freehand and modeling.
The materials and methods of all trades and pro-
fessions engaged in building operations are syste-
matically studied in the Construction classes through-
100
BULLETIN OF THE
out the four years of the program. The writing of
specifications for each branch in labor is studied syn-
chronously. Practical work in the various trades
is given so that the student may know good work
and thus be able to superintend construction intel-
ligently. The practical lessons are supplemented by
trips to the important building operations and in-
dustries in the neighborhood of the University.
The standard hand-books and mill-books are used
as supplementary text-books.
Graphic methods of determining stresses in beams,
girders and trusses of all forms are studied and numer-
ous practical problems solved.
Working drawings and detail of construction are
made under office conditions.
Broadly speaking, it is the purpose of the College
in outlining the construction courses to equip the
student to solve by office methods any problem he may
meet in ordinary practice, it being taken for granted
that graver problems requiring a deep knowledge of
the higher mathematics may well be left to the archi-
tectural engineer.
In the last year of the program a series of lectures
are given on estimates, contracts, law, business relations
and professional ethics and practice. Architects of
high professional standing will give a number of lectures
in this course. .
A history of architecture and of the allied arts is
studied in a course covering four years. The method
is a combination of lectures, recitations and research.
Courses either in mathematics or in English (with
Electives as noted below) covering four years com-
plete the curriculum.
In the Graduate Year advanced work in criticism
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 101
and research is done and larger and more complicated
problems are given in design.
ENGINEERING PROGRAM
The science of engineering has long since outgrown
the practical limit of one man’s abilities. To be thor-
ough, the engineer must specialize. One of his special-
izations is in Architecture. His services are needed
to frame important buildings, to design their founda-
tions and to protect adjoining property while they
are in erection. The modern idea of education is to
progress in a course parallel to the world’s needs.
The College offers the Program in Architectural En-
gineering because there is need of the service of the
men who complete it.
Students desiring to become Architectural Engi-
neers should have a bent for mathematics and for
painstaking exact drafting.
The program of studies differs from that of the
Program in Design chiefly in the following particulars:
Courses in pure and applied mathematics are sub-
stituted for the courses in English, economics and
philosophy; the more important construction courses
go deeper into theory; freehand work ends with the
first year; the study of Historic Ornament and the
Histories of the “Allied Arts” is omitted; and a rel-
atively greater amount of time, increasing each year,
is spent in structural design.
The Graduate year is largely spent in the solving
of problems of the first order in architectural engi-
neering,
102
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SHORT PROGRAM
The scheme of studies for the Short Program com-
prises most of the work of the complete program that
is essentially architectural. A glance at the Program
will show that there is relatively less class-room work
and correspondingly more in Design each year than
in either of the complete programs.
Ordinarily the same entrance subjects are demanded
for the Short Program as for the Programs in Design
and Engineering. A student may be allowed to take
up work in the Short Program who is sufficiently mature
in years and has had enough practical experience to
warrant his following the work with profit.
EXPLANATION OF “HOURS”
A class hour means one hour of recitation or lecture
and one to two hours of preparation. A freehand or
design hour means at least two actual hours in the
drafting room.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 103
PROGRAM IN DESIGN
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
El. of Arch.	4	119	I	El. of Arch.	4	119	I
Construction	4	116	I	Construction	4	116	I
Language*	5			Language	5		
Drawing	2	140	Ic	Drawing	2	140	Id
Arch. Drawing	2	143	IV	Arch. Drawing	2	143	IV
SECOND YEAR
English	3	150	II	English	3	150	II
Design	8	120	II	Design	8	120	II
Construction	3	117	II,III	Construction	3	118	III
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	115	I
Drawing	2	140	Ila	Drawing	2	140	Ila
Graphics	2	137	XV	Graphics	2	137	. XV
Theory of Des.	1	121	VII	Church Des.	1	121	VIII
THIRD YEAR
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
Design	8	120	III	Design	8	120	' Ill
Hist, of Arch.	1	115	Tl	Hist, of Arch.	1	115	II
Hist. Ornament	2	116	III	Drawing	2	140	lib
Drawing	2	140	Ila’	Sanitation	1	119	VI
Heat, and Vent.	1	118	V				
Electricity	1	147	VII				
FOURTH YEAR
Philosophy	4	179	X	Philosophy	4	179	X
History of				Bus. Ethics	1	119	I
Art	2	116	V	History of			
Pen and Ink	1	144	XII	Art	2	116	V
Water Color	1	144		Modeling	2	141	V
Design	10	120	IV	Design	10	120	IV
				Thesis			
* French, Latin or Spanish.
Mathematics may be substituted for the Language of the
Freshman year provided the student has had at least two years
of Language.
104
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM IN ARCHITECTURAL
ENGINEERING
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Descriptioi		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg-	Course			Pg-	Course
Algebra	5	161	I	Anal. Geom.	5	161	II
English	3	150	I	English	3	150	I
Construction	4	116	I	Construction	4	116	I
Drawing	3	142	I	Drawing	3	142	II
Drawing	2	140	Ic	Drawing	2	140	Id
El. of Arch.	5	119	I	El. of Arch.	5	119	I
SECOND YEAR
Calculus	5	161	HI	Calculus	4	162	IV
Physics	5	182	II, HI	Physics	5	182	II, HI
Des. Geom.	2	142	HI	Des. Geom.	2	142	HI
Construction	3	117	II, HI	Construction	3	117	II, III
Design	5	120	II	Design	5	120	II
Drawing	2	140	Ha	Drawing	2	140	Ha
History	4	158	VII	Pol. Science	4	187	VI
THIRD YEAR
Anal. Meehan.	5	134	VIII	Anal. Meehan.	2	134	VIII
Sanitary Eng.	2	136	XIII	Mechanics of			
Electricity	1	147	VII	Materials	3	134	X
Heating and				Sanitary Eng.	2	136	XIII
Ventilating	1	118	V	Surveying	2	132	II, HI
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	115	I
Struct. Design	8	120	V	Struct. Design	8	120	V
Philosophy	4	179	X	Philosophy	4	179	X
FOURTH YEAR
Arch. Eng.	2	119	IV	Arch. Eng.	3	119	IV
Bridges and Roofs	5	137	XIV	Grap. Stat. History of	5	137	XV
Drawing	3	143	VI	Architect.	2	115	II
Hist, of Arch.	1	115	II	Bus. Ethics	1	119	I
Struc. Design	8	120	VI	Struc. Design Thesis	8	120	VI
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 105
SHORT PROGRAM
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description		SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	See For Description	
		Pg.	Course			Pg-	Course
Hist, of Arch.	2	115	I	Hist, of Arch.	2	115	I
Construction	4	117	I	Construction	4	117	I
Arch. Drawing	2	143	IV	Arch. Drawing	2	143	IV
Drawing	1	140	Ic	Drawing	1	140	Id
El. of Arch.	12	119	I	Pen and Ink	1	144	XII
				El. of Arch.	4	119	IV
				Design	8	120	II
				The’y of Des.	1	121	VII
SECOND YEAR
Hist, of Arch.	1	115	II	Hist, of Arch.	1	115	II
Construction	3	117	II, III	Construction	3	117	III
Graphics	2	137	XV	Graphics	2	137	XV
Heat, and				Sanitation	2	119	VI
Ventilation	1	118	V				
Electricity	1	147	VII	Bus. Ethics	1	119	I
Water Color	1	144		Drawing	4	140	Ha
Drawing	4	140	Ila	Modeling	2	141	X
Design	8	120	HI	Design	8	120	III
	*	-	-	- - ’	...		
							
106
BULLETIN OF THE
THE COLLEGE OF LAW
For several years a systematic movement has been
in progress, under the auspices of the bench and bar
of the country to elevate the standing and promote
the efficiency of the legal profession, and make it as
learned in fact as it is in name. The most essential
preliminary step to this end, as lawyers generally agree,
is to prescribe requirements as a test of qualifications
for admission to the bar. Under the influence largely
of the American Bar Association the period now,
commonly prescribed for the study oi law in a college
is three years.
A period of three years’ study is prescribed for under-
graduates in the College of Law of the University of
Notre Dame. The courses lead, when satisfactorily
completed, to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graduate program comprises an additional or fourth
year of residal study, and leads to the degree of Master
of Laws.
The degree of Doctor of Laws (LL. D.) or Doctor of
Civil Law (D. C. L.) presupposes the degree of Bachelor
of Laws and a Bachelor’s degree in Arts or Science.
On account of the peculiarly favorable location of
the University for diligent and persevering work, it
is possible for industrious students to do at least a
fourth more a year than is elsewhere attempted.
The undergraduate law students are divided into
three classes, corresponding to each year of the pro-
gram leading to the degree of Bachelor of Laws. The
Graudate course is for students who have received
that degree and aim at attaining, by further study
and practical work, to a higher grade of proficiency.
A full year of study in each class is obligatory. More-
over the student must pass a satisfactory general
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 107
examination at the close of each scholastic year. Grad-
uates entitled to vote are admitted to the bar on motion
of the Supreme Court of Indiana.
Candidates for degrees in the College of Law are
admitted to the first year on, presentation of a cer-
tificate of graduation from a four year High School
or Preparatory School of recognized standing, or by
examination in subjects mentioned on page 22. It is
strongly recommended that students complete the work
prescribed for a Bachelor’s degree in one of the Programs
of the College of Arts and Letters, before taking up
the study of Law. If it is impossible for the student to
give more than two years to work of this nature, even
that much is highly desirable.
Students who desire can so arrange their studies as
to complete any of the programs in the - College of
Arts and Letters and the Law program in six years.
This will entitle them to two degrees.
Students from other reputable law schools are re-
ceived at any time and allowed due credit for the work
previously done. They must, however, be in residence
for at least one year in order to be entitled to degrees.
Lawyers who have been engaged in the practice of
the profession or have only been admitted to the bar,
as the case may be, are admitted to the Senior class
and entitled to the degree appropriate to their work
and standing at graduation in the following June.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not intend to become candidates
for the degree of Bachelor of Laws, but wish simply
to add to their educational acquirements a knowledge
of the fundamental principles of law, may at any time
in the year have their names enrolled on the list of
special students. No extra expense is thereby incurred.
108
BULLETIN OF THE
Yet they must be of sufficiently advanced age and
education to justify the belief that they can under-
stand and appreciate instruction in the law. No par-
ticular academic entry requirement is prescribed for
them, aside from securing the consent of the Director
of Studies and being of sufficient age and capacity
to understand and profit by instruction in the law.
The number of such students is likely to increase steadily
for year by year it is becoming more manifest that
an education is not complete without a knowledge of at
least the elementary legal principles. Many a person
has been forced to do exactly the contrary of what
he intended through bis failure to understand the
essential elements ot a contract. Many a one has been
compelled to pay heavy damages for personal injuries
caused by negligence, or failure to perform a duty,
or improper performance of it, where no liability would
exist if the law of torts had been known and observed.
METHODS OF INSTRUCTION
In examinations for admission to the bar the courts
of some States require applicants to furnish lists of the
text-books they studied, and such as have merely
attended lectures or studied cases, instead of reading
text-books, encounter danger of being declared ineligible
to appear for examination. As many law students
come from States in which this test is applied, the
use of text-books is deemed necessary. ■ The books
used by students become peculiarly serviceable in their
subsequent practice. They may be purchased in the
Students’ Office at the University at the lowest retail
prices. The cost may be estimated at $20 or $25 a
year.
The lecture or dictation system alone is regarded
at Notre Dame as impracticable but, in combination
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 109
with text-book work, case readings and daily examina-
tions, its great value and utility can not be over-
estimated. Each subject is fully covered by lectures,
text-book work, weekly quiz, monthly theses, quar-
terly examinations, the reading of pertinent cases
and formal trials in the moot court and other courts of
the college. Students have also the advantage of attend-
ing important cases in the higher courts of South Bend.
The course of instruction is comprehensive, thorough
and practical. The earnest and industrious student
can accomplish twice as much in a given time at Notre
Dame as he can in an office or at home. With com-
parative immunity from distractions and temptations
of city life, he can give his entire time to study and
necessary recreation. In short, he can here study a
greater number of hours and do more class work day
by day than probably anywhere else in the country.
Students have from three to four recitations daily,
based upon the text-books, the books of selected cases,
the questions answered in writing or the subjects dealt
with in the lectures. From one to twodiours additional
must be devoted daily to office and library work, while
two hours weekly are required for moot court practice
and exercises of the law debating society. While this
society and the moot court offer exceptional opportunity
and strong incentive to acquire readiness in debate,
fluency in speech and force in forensic oratory, yet much
benefit may be derived from attending the regular
classes in elocution and oratory in the College of Arts
and Letters.
When a subject is regularly begun in the Law Program
it is studied and kept before the class, with recitations
day by day at the same hour, until finished. It is
believed that in this way the mind follows it more
closely and that it is better understood than it would
110	BULLETIN OF THE
be if frequently interrupted by the intervention of
other and dissimilar subjects.
THE MOOT COURT
All third year students are required to attend and
participate in the exercises of the moot court. The
court is fully organized, having a judge, clerk, state’s
attorney, sheriff, coroner and reporter. Pleadings are
filed in the clerk’s office, served and returned by the
sheriff, brought to an issue with due formality by the
attorneys, and the trial proceeds under the rules of
evidence before a member of the Faculty acting as
judge.
In addition to the moot court, which corresponds to
the ordinary circuit or trial court, there is a fully-
equipped court of equity, with its chancellor, clerk,
master-in-chancery, bailiff and reporter.
There is likewise a justice’s court. This comprises
the justice of the peace, clerk and constable.
The Federal judicial system is also represented. The
United States District Court, for example, has its dis-
trict judge, clerk, district attorney, marshal and reporter.
The course of procedure in these courts follows as
closely as practicable the actual procedure in the courts
they represent. Practice is combined with theory in
their work. The statement of facts in the cases tried
is furnished by the Faculty. Students acquire in this
way a knowledge of the customary procedure in the
regular courts.
THE LAW LIBRARY
There are undoubtedly in the country several law
school libraries considerably larger than the library at
*
Notre Dame, but it may well be questioned whether
any of them shows any more care in the choice of
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 111
books or is better adapted for the use of students.
All the latest reports of State and Federal courts are
on its shelves, and no difficulty is experienced at any
time in finding the cases needed for reference, thesis
writing and moot court work. A great library with a
crowdingly large attendance of students—too many
to be personally known by or to have personal attention
from the Faculty—may often be less available for use
or accessible than a comparatively small one. It happens
sometimes in such cases that twenty or more students
are found vainly scrambling at the same time to secure
possession of a particular report or text-book. Such-
experience, fortunately, does not fall to the lot of the
young men studying at Notre Dame. Not only all the
latest reports, but likewise the leading text-books,
are to be found on the library shelves.
The books may be read in the library or used in Moot
Court trials, but must not be carried to private rooms.
This rule is rigidly enforced by the librarian, It is
intended for the advantage and to facilitate the work
of the students in common, for all have a right to
feel reasonably certain that when a book is needed
it can be found in the library.
The books on the shelves of the law library number
4,000 but so carefully have they been selected that
they may be said to surpass in. practical utility many
libraries twice as large. The library adjoins the law
lecture room. It is practically open all day and until
9:30 o’clock at night. The light and ventilation are
excellent, and students find it a very wholesome and
comfortable place in which to study.
In addition to the law library, the general library of
the University is open, likewise, at all reasonable hours
to law students. The library privileges are on a generous
scale, and students are not specially charged for making
112
BULLETIN OF THE
proper use of the books, but if a book is lost or injured
through negligence the cost of the book is charged to
the borrower.
THE LAW DEBATING SOCIETY
holds its meetings weekly. Second year students of the
College are members of it. They are required, each in
his turn, to participate in its debates and other exercises.
The debates commonly deal with questions germane to
the law, but subjects of history, political economy, and
the like, are also discussed; in addition, a thorough
drill in parliamentary law proceedings is given. An
excellent opportunity is afforded at the meeting of
the society to develop skill, power and fluency in public
speaking,
GRADUATE COURSES cover the entire field by
way of review, together with Moot Court practice, office
work, etc. The optional studies include Roman law,
Admiralty, Mining and Water Rights, Copyright,
Patents, Trademarks, State and Federal Statutes, etc.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 113
SCHEDULE OF CLASSES IN LAW
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS
Weeks
Hours a
Week
^Criminal Law.........
^ Criminal Procedure
■'""Persons...........
*--Sales..............
^Contracts............
t-Torts..............
^English I..........
History VII.......
Pol. Science VI... .
^Elocution HI........
SECOND YEAR
Property, Real and Personal.........
/""Agency...........................
^Bills and Notes....................
^/Damages...........................
^NViUs, Executors and Administrators
^Federal Procedure and Bankruptcy,
^insurance..........................
^Bailments and Carriers.............
^"Partnership. t....................
i^-Suretyship and Guaranty..........
i^-Medical Jurisprudence, Lectures....
^"Logic.............................
^Ethics.............................
Parliamentary Law and Debating.. .
THIRD YEAR
Corporations, Private........
^"Corporations Public........
^Constitutional Law..........
^International Law...........
Evidence, Civil and Criminal
^Equity Jurisprudence.........
t- Pleadings, Common Law.... .
^Pleadings Code...............
‘^Pleadings Equity.............
^/Conflict of Laws.............
Interpretation of Laws......
Moot Court..................
Elective...................
.9. . .
.9. . .
\9. ..
.9...
22...
14...
36. ..
18...
18...
36. ..
27a...
.9. a a a
10....
•	• a a •
Ma...
a a a a a
.9. a a .
.9. a a .
a 8 a a , .
10a...
18a...
18a...
18.a..
36. a a a
....5... .
....5....
....5... .
■ a • ■ 3 ....
....5....
....5....
....3....
. . a .4. a . .
....4....
a . . .1. . . a
. a - .3. . . .
a a . .5. a a .
a a a .5. . . .
a a a .5. a a .
a a a .5 . a a .
a a a .5 . . a .
a a a .5. a a .
a a a .5 a a a .
• a a a 3 a a • ■

.5....
.S.4
• .4
a .4
a ■ 1.
11. a . a 7		5.	a a a 3
12a...		5a...
6	
12a...		5a...
12a...		5a...
12a...		5a...
12a...		5....
12....		5a...
10a...		3.	a • ■
10. a a .	7
36a...		1.. :
36....	7
Courses of Instruction
(In the description of the courses of instruction an hour
means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation or
lecture room and one hundred and twenty minutes in
the laboratory, the drawing room or the shop. A term
means a half year, or eighteen weeks.)
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 115
ANATOMY
I.
HUMAN HISTOLOGY. Laboratory work and de-
monstrations. Preparations of the tissues and organs
of the human body given to each student, and their
structure demonstrated. This course is taught in con-
nection with Course I. under Human Physiology.
IL
HUMAN HISTOLOGY. Lectures, recitations and
laboratory work. The work covers a thorough course
in Normal Histology, with the methods of hardening,
staining, embedding, section cutting, and mounting of
tissues. Careful work on the nervous system—brain
and spinal cord, termination of nerve fibres, etc. Draw-
ings made from each preparation. Text-book, Pier sol.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
III.
HUMAN ANATOMY. Lectures and Recitations.
Osteology and the descriptive anatomy of the mus-
cular, vascular and nervous systems and of the "organs
of special sense. The anatomy of the viscera. Text-
book, Gray.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
ARCHITECTURE
I. and II.
HISTORY OF ARCHITECTURE. This course in-
cludes a study of the history, manners, customs, poli-
tics and religion as well as of the Architecture of Egypt,
Assyria, Greece and Rome. It takes up the rise and
development of Christianity and the Christian types—
Basilican, Byzantine, Romanesque, Gothic and Re-
naissance in all their phases. Some attention is paid
to Oriental styles. A comprehensive review is made of
116	BULLETIN OlF^T-HE
American work. In seminar the course is completed
by a study and discussion of the various phases of
“The New Art,” both abroad and in the United States.
Instruction is by text-book, lectures, readings and
research.
[Two hours a week for two terms. One hour a week
for one term.]
III.
HISTORIC ORNAMENT. A study of the origin
and evolution of all styles of ornament, and of its appli-
cation to architectural forms.
Instruction* by text-book, lectures, readings, and
drawings in various media.
Text-book, Glazier.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
HISTORY OF ART. A brief historical review of
ancient and modern sculpture.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
Text-book, Mar guard and Frothingham.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
HISTORY OF ART. A brief historical and critical
review of Painting.
Instruction by text-book, conference and research.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
CONSTRUCTION
I.
In this course the student obtains a thorough knowl-
edge of the materials and methods of masonry, car-
pentry, roofing, metal-working, painting. Each trade
is considered separately, and at conclusion an exhaus-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 117
tive study of specification writing and methods of esti-
mating for it is made. Detail drawings of constructive
methods are made exactly as in an architect’s office.
In the spring term of his last three years each student
is required to stake out on £he campus one of his pro-
jects and to furnish all levels required by the builder
in order to acquire thoroughness in the use of the
architect’s level and compass.
The University constantly furnishes employment
to a large force of trained mechanics who will give
personal lessons to the students in all branches of these
trades. Inspection visits are made regularly as a sup-
plementary exercise in superintendence, to important
building operations in the neighborhood.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Fifteen points must be made in inspections and
drawings.
Text-book, Kidder's Building Construction, Vols. I,
II; Kidder's Handbook.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
A thorough study of foundation work—caissons,
piles, grillage, spread and stepped footings; fire proof-
ing of all forms; the design and construction of steel
framing.
Working drawings for one year of the student’s proj-
ects are made. Especial care and accuracy are de-
manded in the preparation of the framing of plans and
details.
Instruction is by text-books and lectures.- Eight
points must be made in inspections and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vol. I, Frietag; Carnegie and
Bethlehem “Millbooks.”
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
118
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
A study of Reinforced Concrete; Elevators; Power
plants for buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Five points must be made in inspection and drawings.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IV.
ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING. A course
in which the student is taught to solve graphically and
analytically more complicated problems in structural
design and applied mechanics. Shoring, underpinning,
retaining walls, jointed trusses, arches, vaults and
domes are the ’more important topics.
Instruction by text-book. Twelve points must be
made in instructions and drawings.
Text-books, Kidder, Vols. I, III.
[Two hours a week for one term, three hours a week
for one term.]
V.
HEATING AND VENTILATION. This course is
a study of the theory and practice of heating and ven-
tilating public buildings and dwelling houses. The
different systems of heating are carefully examined and
studied. The radiation of heat from furnaces, the
different systems of piping, condition of air as to mois-
ture, amount of air required, causes and best means
adopted to secure pure air; the necessity of good ven-
tilation and the latest approved methods of securing
this are some of the topics considered in this study.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Carpenter.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
119
VI.
SANITATION. The following are the topics covered
in this course: The carrying away of surface water
and wastes from the building; pipes and fittings; one
and two-pipe roughing-in systems; traps; domestic
waste supplies; pumping engines; heating of water for
domestic purposes; plumbing fixtures.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
[One hour a week for one term.]
BUSINESS ETHICS
I.
In this course are given descriptions of a system t of
book-keeping suited to the needs of an architects’
business, a system of building accounts, filing systems
for catalogue and prints, a card index system for prints
and general information; of forms for agreements with
bonds, and for certificates; the laws affecting clients,
contractors and architects; and the rules of professional
ethics in private practice, competitions and municipal
affairs.
Instruction is by text-book and lectures.
Text-book, Wait.
[One hour a week for one term.]
DESIGN
I.
ELEMENTS OF ARCHITECTURE. This is a
course of drawing. Thirty-two plates of standard size
(or their equivalent) will be made during the year.
They consist of measured drawings of the Roman and
Greek orders, of the various details associated with
them and of simple problems involving their use; of
120
BULLETIN OF THE
lettering; of exercises in wash and color; and of studies
in shades and shadows and perspective.
Instruction is by text-book.
Text-book, Ware.
[Eight hours a week for two terms.]
II,	III, and IV.
These courses are the most important in the program.
In the solving of the problems the student makes use
of every item of information that he has acquired in
his other class-work, for the aim of the instruction
in design is, primarily, practicability. This plan is
realized by major and minor problems of varying
degrees of difficulty. These problems are stated in
programs that are made definite and practical and as
like actual conditions as possible.
Second year men are required to execute eight minor
and eight major problems; third year men, eight minor
and six major problems; and fourth year men, four
minor and three major problems and the thesis.
Fifteen points must be registered in second year
design, as many in third year design, and eight in
fourth year design before thesis work is started.
[Eight, eight and ten hours a week,
respectively, for six terms.]
V, VI.
STRUCTURAL DESIGN. These courses have the
same relative importance as the courses in design. The
analogy goes further, the work is given as major and
minor problems of varying degrees of difficulty and
is judged and marked in the same manner. The scope
of the problems will vary from the making of an ordinary
footing plan to the framing of the structural steel of
a large dome.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 121
The amount of work and the points required to be
registered is the same for the same year under Design
II, III, IV.
[Eight hours a week for six terms.]
VII.
THEORY OF DESIGN. A thorough study of the
principles of planning and proportion supplemented
by study of the perfection and faults of the world’s
famous buildings.
Instruction by text-book and lectures.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
CHURCH DESIGN. This course is conducted by
means of lectures and research. It includes the arrange-
ments of sanctuaries, sacristies and baptisteries as
affected by liturigical needs. The subject of church
furniture and accessories is also discussed.
[One hour a week for one term.]
ASTRONOMY
ASTRONOMY. Practical. This course is designed
to meet the requirements of Civil Engineering students
and to give them the training and information necessary
for intelligently executing certain departments of work
to which they may be assigned in the course of their
professional career. The course comprises a study of
astronomical instruments as well as instruments of
more precision than those used in ordinary surveying.
The adjustments and use .of these instruments are
considered, and instruction is given in methods of
observation and computation; different methods for
finding latitude, longitude and time are studied in
detail, and the methods for finding right ascensions and
122	' BULLETIN OF THE
declination; methods of making observations and their
adjustments, and discussion of errors. Conversion of
solar time into sidereal, and sidereal time into solar.
A course in Least Squares is given with Practical
Astronomy and comprises a study of a review of* the
theory of probability; errors and their probability,
the probability curve, and probability integral; also
the solution of observational equations, average error,
mean error, approximate formulas and propagation of
errors; normal equations and formulas fitted to obser-
vations.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
BACTERIOLOGY
LECTURES AND LABORATORY WORK. Lec-
tures on the form, structure, reproduction and classi-
fication of bacteria. The relations of bacteria to dis-
ease, etc. The principles of sterilization, thermal and
chemical, are pointed out. The early part of the labora-
tory work is occupied in the preparation of the various
culture media and in studying pure cultures of certain
nonpathogenic bacteria in these media. Observations
on the microscopic characteristics of bacteria and special
attention to the microscopic technique in bacteriolog-
ical work. Later on in the course some time is devoted
to practice in the isolation and identification of patho-
genic germs by the various staining processes. Inocula-
tion of animals. Bacteriological investigations of water,
air and soil. Text-book, Abbott's Principles of Bacter-
iology.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 123
BOTANY
I.
BOTANY. Lectures and recitations on the mor-
phology of the root, stem, leaf, flower, fruit and seed;
the development of the embryo and the processes of
pollination and fertilization; the study of the vegetable
cell, of its products, of cell formation, of plant tissues
and the various physiological phenomena; the struc-
ture, growth, reproduction and general classification
of the algae, fungi, lichens, mosses, ferns, and the
higher plants. Text book, Bastin's College Botany,
-Barnes & Coulter.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
BOTANICAL LABORATORY. Supplementary to
Course I. Special microscopical study of thallophyta,
bryophyta, pteridophyta and spermaphyta referred to
in Course I. Drawings must be made of all plants
examined. Plants under these headings are collected
and put before the student that he may become familiar
with their morphology, structure and classification.
The course is to accompany or to be preceded by Course
I. Provision is also made in this course for students
in pharmacy to take a special laboratory course in phar-
maceutical botany. Study of the determination and
classification of the simpler plants. The analysis of the
phanerogams occupies the time during the spring
months and the student is made familiar with the
B
habitat and characteristics of the local flora. Text-
book for classification of plants, Kellerman's Spring
Flora.
[One laboratory hour a week for two terms.]
124
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
ADVANCED BOTANY. Lectures, recitations, de-
monstrations. The work of this course is essentially
the same as that laid out in Strasburger's or Vine's
text-book of Botany. Special study is made of the
physiology, ontogeny, phylogeny, ecology and class-
ification of plants. Text-book, Strasburger.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
LABORATORY FOR ADVANCED BOTANY.
Supplementary to Course III., and either following
or accompanying it:
(a) PLANT HISTOLOGY AND PHYSIOLOGY.
Half of the time alloted for laboratory work is devoted
to plant histology and physiology. The student is
required to study practically the method of killing,
fixing, embedding, sectioning, staining, mounting and
drawing of plant tissues. Text-book, Chamberlain.
(&) PLANT CLASSIFICATION ADVANCED.
The other half of the laboratory work is devoted to
the determination and classification of the more diffi-
cult plants, the compositae, grasses, mosses, myxomy-
cetes, etc. Herbarium study is required, as well as
preparing and collecting plants for preservation. Dur-
ing spring and autumn frequent excursions into the
neighboring fields and woods are made for the purpose
of studying and collecting for preservation the local
aquatic and land flora. Text-book, Britton's or Gray's
Manual.
[One and one-half hours a week for two terms.]
V.
'	ft
SYSTEMATIC BOTANY. Principally laboratory
and herbarium work in special groups of phanerogams
and cryptogams. Study of nomenclature and class-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 125
ification of plants. This course is designed to meet
the needs or inclinations of students specializing in
botany. Library, reference books and seminar work.
GRADUATE WORK IN BOTANY. Original re-
search in systematic botany. Plant history and cyto-
logy. Preparatory to the Master’s or Doctor’s Degree.
CHEMISTRY
I.
(a) GENERAL CHEMISTRY. A minor course
dealing with the general principles of chemistry and
embracing a study of only the commoner elements
and their typical compounds. Text-book, Maguire's
Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(&) A LABORATORY COURSE covering in the
laboratory the work of the Course (la.) and designed
to accompany it. Laboratory Manual, Maguire.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a) GENERAL CHEMISTRY. Lectures, recita-
tions and laboratory. A course in the fundamental
principles of the science in connection with the con-
sideration of the non-metals and a somewhat detailed
study of the metals. It is intended for those students
who have made no previous study of chemistry and is
equivalent to the work done in I. and HI.
[Four periods a week for two terms.]
(&) The laboratory consists in the first term of the
preparation and study of the gases and the principles
involved in such work. In the second term metals are
taken up and considered with regard to their qualitative
separation.
[Four periods a week for two terms.]
126
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
(a) ADVANCED INORGANIC CHEMISTRY.
Lectures and recitations. A complete study of the
elements and their most important compounds, follow-
ing the classification based on Mendeleeff’s Law, and
including a discussion of the theories of the science.
Text-book, Alexander Smith’s College Chemistry.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
(&) EXPERIMENTAL CHEMISTRY. A Labora-
tory course to accompany Course HL, the work con-
sisting of the preparation by the student of the ele-
ments and their more typical compounds, determination
• of molecular weights, verification of the fundamental
laws of chemistry, etc. During the latter part of the
course, there is taken up the study of the reactions
involved in the separation and detection of the.more
common inorganic bases and acids, the analysis of
salts, mixtures of salts, and the complex substances,
such as earths, ores, ashes, etc. Text-books, Perkin
and Thorp, supplemented with lectures.
[Two to three hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
(a) QUALITATIVE ANALYSIS. A course arranged
for the students in Pharmacy, comprising a study of
the commoner metals and acids, their reactions and
separation. Text-book, Perkin.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS. Course suited
to the needs of the students in Pharmacy, comprising
the determination of substances, both gravimetrically
and volumetrically. Text-books, Appleton and Schimpf.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
V.
QUANTITATIVE ANALYSIS. A laboratory study
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 127
of the principles involved in the quantitative separation
and estimation of substances, both gravimetrically
and volumetrically. Complete analysis of a number
of simple salts, like barium chloride, with partial an-
alysis of many complex substances. Text-book, Talbot.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
(a) ELEMENTARY ORGANIC CHEMISTRY.
Lectures and recitations. A systematic study of the
hydrocarbons and their derivatives, and the investi-
gation of their properties. Special attention is given
to the aliphatic ancf aromatic series. Text-book,
■Remsen.	‘	. r . ,
[Five hours a week for one term.] % ,
(&) EXPERIMENTAL ORGANIC CHEMISTRY.
A course fitted to accompany the preceding, involving
the preparation by the student in the laboratory of
the most important and typical organic compounds
and the investigation of their properties. Text-book,
Gatterman's Manual.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIL
(a)	URINE ANALYSIS. A course of laboratory
exercises in the methods employed in the detection
and estimation of the constituents of urine, pathologic
as'well as normal. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(6)	TOXICOLOGY. Symptons and treatment of
poisoning. A chemical and physical examination of
the common poisons to familiarize the student with
their properties. Attention is also given to their separa-
tion from food and animal tissue. Text-book, Holland.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
128	BULLETIN OF THE
VIII	.
TECHNICAL CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. Advanced
courses intended for students specializing in chemistry.
Special courses, at the option of the student, in
I.	GAS ANALYSIS.
II.	WATER ANALYSIS.
IV.	COMMERCIAL ORGANIC ANALYSIS.
V.	OILS AND FATS.
VI.	IRON ANALYSIS.
Text-books, Hempel, Mason, Wiley and current journals.
[Five to fifteen hours a week for two terms.]
'	IX.
(a) ADVANCED ORGANIC CHEMISTRY. An
advanced course, intended for students specializing in
chemistry. Lectures, recitations and discussions of
special subjects of organic chemistry, synthetic chem-
istry, isomerism, and stereochemistry. Text-books,
Cohen and special reference works.
■	[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&) ADVANCED ORGANIC LABORATORY. The
time is spent principally in the making of organic pre-
parations by methods demanding special care, skill
and accuracy in the student.
[Six to eight hours a week for two terms.]
(c) ADVANCED ORGANIC LABORATORY. This
term is devoted to ultimate organic analysis, qualitative
and quantitative; analysis of carbon, hydrogen, the
halogens, sulphur and nitrogen in organic compounds
by the various methods; also in the determination of
molecular weights of organic compounds. Text-books,
special notes and reference work.
[Eight hours a week for one term.]
«
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 129
GENERAL PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY.
In this course the chemical bases and their compounds
are considered, with special reference to their import-
ance in pharmacy and materia medica. Text-books,
Sadtler's and Trimble's Pharmaceutical Chemistry.
XL-
(a)	ELECTRO-CHEMISTRY. Lectures and recita-
tions on the principles of electrochemistry and their
' application in the chemical industries, separation of
metals, the preparation of chemical elements and'
electro-synthesis of compounds. Text-book, Lupke.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(b)	ELECTRO-CHEMICAL LABORATORY. A
laboratory course accompanying Course XI (a). Ex-
periments demonstrating the laws and principles of
electro-chemistry, electrolysis, electro-synthesis and elec-
’ trometallurgy. Text-book, Lupke.
[One hour a week for one term.]
(c)	ELECTRO-CHEMICAL ANALYSIS. A labora-
tory course for those who have completed (a) and (Z>).
Quantitative determination and separation of metals
and anions electrolytically using stationary and revol-
ving electrodes, the mercury cathode and their combina-
tions. Text-book, Smith's Electro-analysis.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
HISTORY OF CHEMISTRY. The subject is
divided into topics and epochs of special interest in the
development of chemistry as a science. These are
discussed at length, together • with the biographies of
the men who aided in their development. Lectures
and recitations. Seminar and journal work for advanced
130
BULLETIN OF THE
students. Text-book, Meyer. Reference to chemical
periodicals.
4Three hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
(a) PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY. Lectures and reci-
tations. A mathematical exposition of chemical theory
on the subject of gas density, solutions dynamics, the
phase rule, thermochemistry, photo-chemistry, etc.
Text-book, Jones.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(&) EXPERIMENTAL PHYSICAL CHEMISTRY.
Laboratory work to accompany Course XIII (a).
Vapor density methods, calorimetric demonstrations,
molecular weight demonstrations by the freezing and
boiling point methods, etc.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XIV.	r
INDUSTRIAL CHEMISTRY. Lectures, recitations
and laboratory work. The consideration of chemical
manufacture, fuels, etc., and the preparation in the
laboratory of chemically pure substances, organic and
inorganic. Special reference books and journals.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XV.
ADVANCED QUANTITATIVE. Mostly laboratory
work in special methods for gravimetric and volumetric
determinations of inorganic substances. Special refer-
ence work.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
RESEARCH WORK. Special facilities are offered
to graduate students desiring to do original research
work in chemistry, preparatory to the Master’s or
Doctor’s degree.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
131
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
All Catholic students are obliged to attend the courses
in Christian Doctrine.
FIRST YEAR
I.	MORAL, as found in -Wilmer's Handbook of the
Christian Religion or a similar work.
SECOND YEAR
II.	DOGMA, as found in Wilmer's Handbook of
the Christian Religion or a similar work.
THIRD YEAR
III.	APOLOGETICS. Religion. Pre-Christian
Revelation. The Christian Revelation. The Catholic
Church. Text-book, Wilmer's Handbook of the
Christian Religion or a similar work. Important ques-
tions of Church History will be discussed in this course.
SACRED SCRIPTURE. There will be selections
from the Bible for each class, so that the whole Bible
will be read in the three years’ course.
IV.	ADVANCED WORK IN CHRISTIAN DOC-
TRINE. Special questions. More detailed presenta-
tion of some periods of Church History. This is an
elective course.
CIVIL ENGINEERING
I.
DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY. In this course are
considered problems on the point, right line, and plane;
single curved, double curved, and warped surfaces;
problems relating to tangent planes, to single curved,
double curved and warped surfaces; intersection of
surfaces; globular, cylindrical, and conic projections;
1	construction of maps, shades and shadows; linear per-
spective; isometric projections; theory and plates.
Numerous practical problems and exercises requiring
132
BULLETIN OF THE
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geometry,
are added by the instructor. Text-book, Church.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
SURVEYING. This course comprises the whole
theory of land surveying and leveling; the use and ad-
justment of the transit, compass, level, and plane
table; methods of measuring; relocations of boundaries;
supply omissions; obstacles to measurement; computa-
tions; field notes and plots; laying out land; parting
off land; dividing up land; public land survey. Text-
book, Breed and Hosmer.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
SURVEYING. Field practice and application of
theory; adjustment and use of instruments in the
field; solution of problems in the field, the theory of
which is taught in the class room; practice in keeping
field notes; computation and plots.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
SURVEYING. This course is a more complete
treatment of the theory of Surveying than Course II.
It treats of the adjustment, use, and care of all kinds
of engineering instruments; problems pertaining to
solar attachment; topographical surveying with the
transit and stadia; determining Hydrographic survey-
ing which comprises a study of the methods of making
soundings and locating the same; the use of bench-marks,
gauges, and water levels; stream measurements, met-
hods and instruments used. City surveying, includ-
ing a study of re-surveys, topographic surveys, city
plan, location of streets, width of grades, field notes,
indexing and records. Text-book, Johnson.
[Four hours a week for twelve weeks.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
133
V.
SURVEYING. Exercises in the field in the adjust-
ment and use of engineering instruments; stadia and
plane table surveying in the fields, leveling; practice
in hydrographic surveying.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
GEODESY. This is an elementary course prescribed
for Civil and Mining Engineering students and com-
prises a study of the instruments and methods of ob-
servation, base measurements and field work of the
triangulation; method of least squares, elementary
course; calculation of the triangulation, the theory of
probable, errors; geodetic latitudes, longitudes, and
azimuths. This is followed by a brief discussion of
the figure of the earth. Text-book, Johnson.
[Four hours a week for six weeks.]
VII.
RAILROAD SURVEYING. This course comprises
all the theory pertaining to reconnoissance and pre-
liminary surveying for*a railroad; theory and maxi-
mum economy in grades and curves; location of curves
by deflection angles and offsets; obstacles to location
of curves; special problems in curves; theory of com-
pound curves; turnouts and crossings; curving the
rail on curves and elevation of outer rail; easing grades
on curves; vertical curves; earthwork and prismoidal
formula; theory of excavation and embankment;
correction in excavation on curves; cross-section level-
ing; theory of the transition curve and practical appli-
cations. Text-books, Allen and Crandall.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
RAILROAD SURVEYING. Exercise in the field;
staking out and running tangents, simple, compound
134
BULLETIN OF THE
and transition-curves; execution on the ground of many
problems previously treated theoretically; survey for
a short line of railroad, leveling, cross-section work,
and setting slope stakes; making profiles and maps;
calculating the necessary excavations and embank-
ments and cost of construction; culverts.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
ANALYTIC MECHANICS. The aim of this course
is to prepare students of engineering for the study of
the courses of applied mechanics. The course comprsies
.a study of the fundamental principles of statics, kine-
matics and kinetics. The subjects selected are studied
with the object of thoroughly preparing the engineering
student to pursue the technical and practical branches
of their respective courses. Some of the topics con-
sidered in this course are: work, energy, conservation
of energy; power, composition and resolution of forces,
center of gravity, center of mass, moment of inertia,
acceleration, dynamics of rigid bodies, laws of friction,
etc.
[For Civil Engineering Students, five hours a week for
first term. Two hours a week for second term.]
[For Students in Electrical, Mechanical, Chemical, and
Mining Engineering, five hours a week for
eighteen weeks.]
MECHANICS OF MATERIALS. This course is
intended to meet the requirements of engineering stu-
dents, and to prepare them, by study of the action and
effect of forces on beams and structures, to design
economically and intelligently the parts entering into
a complete structure. The course comprises a study
of the elastic and ultimate strength and ultimate de-
formation of the materials of engineering, their proper-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 135
ties and method of testing, and discussion of cases of
simple stresses. The general theory of beams includ-
ing cases of simple and cantilever beams, overhanging,
fixed and continuous beams is thoroughly investigated.
Columns are examined according to Euler’s, Rankin’s
and other formulae, and results compared. Some of
the other subjects considered in this course are torsion
of shafts, the transmission of power by shafts, apparent
combined stresses, such as flexure and compression,
flexure and torsion, etc. Compound columns and beams,
reinforced concrete beams, plate girders and other
forms. Then is studied the subjects, resilience and work,
impact and fatigue, true internal stresses, centrifugal
tension and flexure, unsymmetric loads on beams,
the course closing with a study of the mathematical
theory of elasticity.
[For students of Civil Engineering, three hours a week
for two terms.]
[For students of Electrical, Mechanical, Mining and
Chemical Engineering, three hours a week
for eighteen weeks.]
XI.
ROADS AND PAVEMENTS. This course is in-
tended to familiarize the student with the practical
details of laying out and constructing highways, the
method of drainage, grading, and most suitable road
covering, the improvement of streets in cities and
materials used for paving and covering. The manner
of preparing the street before paving is placed in posi-
tion is fully considered and illustrated. The course
includes a thorough discussion of the theory of pave-
ments and a description of the various materials used,
such as cobble and stone-block, asphalt, brick, wood
and broken stone pavements. The method of preparing
plans and specifications for the various conditions aris-
136	BULLETIN OF THE
ing are considered and original plans are prepared by
students. Attention is also given to the construction
of street-car tracks in paved streets. Text-books, Baker.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
ENGINEERING. This course is taken by students
of Civil Engineering in the Senior year and teaches
the best approved methods of constructing engineer-
ing works and the styles of structures suitable for
different localities. The study is quite comprehensive,
including the general theory of the arch and appli-
cation of the voussoir arch; the theory of earth pressure,
and the design of retaining walls; foundations suit-
able for structures of various classes in connection
with which the student becomes acquainted, not only
with the methods for ascertaining the bearing power
of the foundation, but also the means for constructing
deep foundations. The methods for tunnel construction,
irrigating canals, river improvements, are included in
the course and given by text-book and lectures. The
part pertaining to masonry construction include a
study of the properties of stone, brick, mortar, the
manner of testing foundations under water, the crib
and open caisson process, the pneumatic process, the
theory of masonry arches and design, arch centers,
selection of site for bridge piers and arrangement
of spans, the details of construction of bridge piers
and manner of location, specifications for masonry,
etc. Text-books, Howe, Patton, Baker, Rankin.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
SANITARY ENGINEERING. This course is a
study of the principles and methods of drainage and
disposal of sewage in populous districts: shape, material
and calculation of sewers; catchbasins, flushing and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 137
ventilation; separate and combined systems compared;
pollution of rivers; chemical precipitation; results and
costs of purification; general municipal and domestic
sanitation; inspection of neighboring works. Text-
books, Staler and Pirson.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
XIV.
BRIDGES AND ROOFS. This course comprises
a study of the different systems of trussed bridges and
roof trusses, and the calculation of the strains produced
when loaded in any manner, the weight of the structure
and the effect of wind included. Both graphical and
analytical methods are used. Besides the various
systems of trussed bridges, which are studied in detail
the plate girders, suspension bridges, cantilever bridges
draw bridges, and roofs of various designs are given
equal attention; the purpose being to familiarize the
student with the different forms and enable him to
design and to estimate the cost of construction. Text-
book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
XV.
GRAPHIC STATICS. This course teaches the de-
termination of stresses in framed structures by the
graphical method. Shearing forces, bending moments,
centers of gravity and moments of inertia are graphically
determined by the application of the principles of the
force and equilibrium polygons; also the determination
of stresses in bridge trusses with parallel chord and with
broken chords, caused by uniform loads and locomotive
wheel loads; graphical determination of stresses in roof
trusses, graphical treatment of the arch symmetrical
and unsymmetrical cases, graphical methods of arch-
ribs of hinged ends, and ot fixed ends; stress diagrams;
temperature stresses; braced arches; graphics applied
138
BULLETIN OF THE
to continuous girders. This course is supplemented
by full explanations, notes, examples and problems.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
An elementary course two hours a week for two
terms is given to students following the Program in
Design and Short Program in Architecture.
XVI.
HYDROMECHANICS. This course is a thorough
study of the theory of hydrostatics, hydraulics, and hy-
drodynamics, to which are added many practical
exercises. The subjects admitted are the transmission
of pressures, center of pressures; velocity of flow from
orifices of various shapes; fluid friction; Bernaulli’s
theorem with friction: Chezy’s formula; Kutter’s
formula; flow over wires, and through tubes; flow in
pipes; loss of head in friction and other losses; flow in
conduits, canals, and rivers, velocities in cross sections;
methods of gauging the flow, measurement of water
power, dynamic pressure oi flowing water; designing
of waterworks and standpipes; hydraulic motors and
relative merits; discussion of water wheels of different
types, and a study of the conditions determining high
efficiencies; classification of turbines, and a complete
study and discussion of the different forms.
[For students in Civil Engineering, three hours a
week for two terms. For students in Elec-
trical, Mechanical, Mining and Chemical
Engineering, two hours a week for
eighteen weeks.]

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE. DAME 139
DRAWING, ARTISTIC
In this department the aim is to lay a thorough
foundation in drawing for those who wish to make
Art a profession, but the courses are so arranged as
to be accessible .to other students. The system of
teaching, which is that followed in the best art schools,
is intended to develop the individuality of each student,
so that with a good understanding of the principles
of art he may interpret nature according to his own
temperament.
The work is done altogether from cast, objects and
nature. The immediate surroundings of the University
buildings, the lakes and the Saint Joseph River offer
many beautiful subjects for the study of landscapes,
and the classes are taken out in the summer for this
study.
To the old collection of casts has been added a new
one which was'carefully selected at the National School
of Fine Arts in Paris, where all the casts are moulded
directly from the originals. The collection is as follows:
FULL FIGURE. The Diadumenos (British Muse-
um); the Doryphyros (Naples). These two figures are
full size.
The following figures are reduced mathematically:
the Discobolus; the Venus of Milo; the Slave of Michael
Angelo; the Achilles; the Fighting Gladiator (Louvre);
and Houdon’s Anatomical Figure.
BUSTS AND HEADS. Asiaticus (Paris); Brutus
(Rome, the Capitol); Cato (Rome and Vatican); Cicero
(Rome, the Capitol); Dante (Florence, Uffizi); Agrippa
(Louvre); Venus (Vatican); Centurion (Naples); Ariadne
(the Capitol); Psyche of Naples (Naples); Vestal
(Vatican); Niobe (Vatican); the Two Daughters of
Niobe (Florence.)
140
BULLETIN OF THE
Among the old busts are the Apollo Belvidere, the
Antinous, Bacchus, Juno, Mercury, Demosthenes, etc.
Besides there is a complete set of decorative and
architectural ornaments, taken from monuments of
antiquity, the Middle Ages and the Renaissance, and
of elements of the human figure (hands, feet, etc.)
from the antique and some anatomical pieces.
ELEMENTARY CLASS
I.
(a) Drawing from casts or ornaments purely geo-
metrical, such as mouldings, ovoloes, dentils, etc.
Sketching from simple objects.
(&) Drawing from casts of ornaments of which
the elements are living forms, such as ornamental
leaves and flowers. Sketching from nature, leaves
and flowers.
(c)	Drawing from architectural elements, such 'as
pedestals, bases, shafts, cornices, etc. * Lectures on
perspective, direction of the princiapl lines in relation
to the horizon. Elementary notions of the five orders
of architecture.
(d)	Drawing from casts of the human figure; hands,
feet, masks, etc. Architectural ornaments. Sketch-
ing from familiar objects.
ANTIQUE CLASS
II.
(a)	Drawing from the antique, heads and busts.
Still life drawing. Sketches of landscapes from nature.
Selection of a subject. Composition in landscape.
Applications of perspective.
(b)	Drawing from the antique, full figure. Occasional
studies of the head from the living model. Sketching
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 141
from the costumed model. Still life in water colors.
History of Art.
III.
LIFE CLASS. Drawing from life. Artistic anatomy.
Anatomical studies from the collections of Science
Hall. Still life painting in water colors and oil. Land-
scape painting. Drawing for illustrations.
IV.
SKETCH CLASS. One hour a week. The students
have among themselves an organization, “The Crayon
Club,” the object of which is to sketch college scenes
and to do illustrative work; these sketches are brought
into class and criticized.
V.
X
MODELING. In the spring term of the Senior year,
Architecture modeling in clay is taken up. The objects
modeled are architectural forms, copied from casts or
made from the student’s drawings of his own work, as
his progress and ability may warrant.
IV.
CLASS OF DECORATIVE DESIGN. The object
of this department is to prepare students for professional
work in decorative designing of all kinds. They will
take up the study of historical ornaments and will
be taught the several principles of the arrangement
of designs, and from personal sketches of plants and
flowers will be shown the art of making original de-
signs for wall paper, book covers, stained glass, carpets,
interior decorations, metal plates, etc. No particular
program is given out as the teaching is purely in-
dividual.
142	BULLETIN OF THE
DRAWING, MECHANICAL
Drawing A and B (Elementary Freehand, Lettering,
Geometrical Drawing, Elementary Projections) are
required to take up drawing I.
Two hours of actual time in drawing are required for
each credit hour in the schedule.
I.	'
PROJECTION DRAWING. This course consists
in sketching with pencil from various models of the dif-
ferent machine parts. Later in the term, the use of
instruments is taken up illustrating problems in the
Engineering course. The course embraces the principles
of projection, methods of shop-drawing, tinting, trac-
ing, blueprinting, linesbading and the preparation of
working drawings of complete machines. Text-book, •
Jamison's Elements.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
MACHINE DRAWING. A continuation of Course
I, embracing advanced work in machine draw-
ing and the elementary principles of mechanical de-
sign with calculation of dimensions and construction
of drawings from sketch-book notes. Text-book, Low's
Machine Drawing and Design.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
III.
DESCRIPTIVE GEOMETRY. A series of accurate ’
plates is made, illustrating the principles of orthographic
and spherical projections, shades and shadows,, per-
spective and isometric projections. Text-book, Jami-
son's Advanced Mechanical Drawing.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 143
IV.
ARCHITECTURAL DRAWING. Exercises in in-
strumental drawing, pencil and brush work and letter-
ing, followed by problems in orthographic projections,
intersections, shades and shadows and perspective
with particular reference to architectural subjects.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
TOPOGRAPHY. Pen and colored topographical
drawing, conventional signs, map drawing from notes
taken from surveys. This course must be preceded by
Course I. Text-book, Daniels.
VI.
STEREOTOMY. This course comprises a study of
the application of the principles of Descriptive Geom-
etry to the determination of the forms and sizes of
the stones used in the construction of the different
classes of arches and masonry structures. This course
is given by lectures in the drawing room, explaining
the construction of templates, and the use of directing
instrument; also explanations of methods of drawing
plans, elevation and development of oblique arches,
. wing walls and the like. A certain number of plates
and drawings is required, illustrating the methods of
performing practical work.
Drawing and designing plans, elevations and sections
of masonry construction, foundations, dams, piers,
abutments, culverts, and arches. Text-book, French
Ives.
[Two hours a week for one term.] -
VII.
BRIDGE DESIGNING. This course proceeds from
simple framed girders to complete bridge-trusses of
various designs,—required of Juniors in Civil Engineer-
144
BULLETIN OF THE
ing. Complete design of a railroad bridge and detail
drawings,—a short general course of bridge designing.
Text-book, Merriman.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
FREEHAND. The principles of freehand drawing
in pencil and pen from objects, and later from bio-
logical specimens, plants, animals and microscopical
preparations.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
FREEHAND. Advanced drawing from plants and
anatomical dissections of animals. Illustrations for
publications.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
WATER COLOR. Drawing in water color from still
life and nature.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XI.
RENDERING IN WATER COLOR. The render-
ing of architectural drawings, including perspectives,—
casting of shadows, color treatments of buildings and
handling of foreground and background.
[One hour a week for one term.]
XII.
PEN AND INK. Rendering drawings in pen and ink
from studies by noted artists in this branch of art;
followed by rendering of original drawings.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 145
ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING
I.
APPLIED ELECTRICITY. A course of lectures
and recitations, supplemented by laboratory practice,
on the general theory of electricity and magnetism and
its application to practical work, as follows: Setting
up and testing primary and secondary batteries, sys-
tems of call bells, electric and gas lighting appliances,
fire and burglar alarms, telegraph and telephone lines,
switch boards and accessories. Experiments with
induction coils, magnets, switches, voltmeters, am-
meters, wheatstone bridges, galvanometers and other
measuring instruments. The study of direct current
generators and motors, arc and incandescent lighting
systems, street railway machinery and appliances, elec-
tric heating and forging, electrolytic process, etc.
Text-book, Practical Electricity. Timbie's
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
APPLIED ELECTRICITY. Lectures and labora-
tory work on the construction and testing of switches,
magnets, measuring instruments, induction coils, etc.
The calculation of sizes of wire and location of circuits
for lighting and power, the experimental study of
alternating current machinery and accessories.
If the student has acquired sufficient skill in handling
tools in his workshop, he may design and build a small
dynamo, starting with rough castings, doing all the
fitting and finishing, winding and adjusting, and finally
testing for insulation, efficiency, and adaptability to
special purposes. This course must be preceded by
Course I. {Course I. and II. are required in the Short
Program Electrical Engineering', they are elective for
general students and those studying telegraphy).
*	[Five hours a week for two terms.]
146
BULLETIN OF THE
HI.
DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINERY. Recita-
tions on the physical reactions, characteristic curves,
mechanical points, theory of armature winding, the
mathematical theory of alternating currents, phase
relations, modern forms of single phase, and multiphase
generators and motors, design of transformers. Text-
books, Sheldon's Dynamo Electric Machines, Sheldon
and Mason's Alternating Currents.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
ELECTRICAL LABORATORY. Practical work at
wiring buildings for lights and power, testing circuits
for insulation and grounds, construction and operation
of storage batteries, management and care of dynamos,
characteristic curves of particular machines under
different conditions, efficiency, tests of motors by
absorption dynamometer methods, alternating current
dynamo and transformer tests, the testing of storage
batteries, and complete plant efficiency tests. Careful
notes are taken.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
V.
DESIGNING. The designing and making of work-
ing drawings of switches, resistance and other electrica
apparatus. Calculation of sizes of wire and location
of circuits for lighting buildings. Complete drawing
of direct and alternating current dynamos. Laying out
plants for power and lighting.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
DYNAMO-ELECTRIC MACHINERY. A class
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 147
in direct currents for the Juniors in Electrical Engineer-
ing. Accompanied by a course in Laboratory.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
VII.
APPLIED ELECTRICITY, LABORATORY AND
LECTURES on the use of electricity in buildings, sys-
tems of wiring, materials used, the Underwriting re-
quirements for study bells and telephones, electric
lighting, phytometry and illumination. For students
in Architecture.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VIII.
POWER TRANSMISSION. Lectures and recita-
tions on pole lines, underground work, limits of voltage,
insulators, choice of frequency, cost of construction, de-
preciation and other financial matters.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IX.
ELECTRIC RAILWAYS. Lectures and recitations
on track and overhead construction, cars, trucks, motors
and systems of control for both direct and alternat-
ing current, sub-stations, operation and financial con-
siderations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
TELEPHONY. Laboratory and lectures on general
principles, intercommunicating systems, switchboard
systems, manual and automatic operation, cost of
equipment, maintenance and depreciation.
XL
WIRELESS TELEGRAPHY AND TELEPHONY.
Experimental practice and lectures on the theories
involved in the construction and operation of the lead-
148
BULLETIN OF THE
ing systems, osculators and sending apparatus, detec-
tors and receiving devices, turning to prevent inter-
ference.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
XII.
ILLUMINATING ENGINEERING. Lectures on
the theory and operation of the various kinds of electric
and other lamps, distribution of light and the location
of lamps to produce the best illumination, practical
problems and the study of particular institutions, the
cost per candle power or per candle foot including
first cost, attendance, breakage and depreciation.
[Two hours a week for ten weeks.]
XIII.
INSPECTION TRIP TO CHICAGO. Study of the
larger power, lighting and telephone installations, also
factory methods in several typical industrial establish-
ments, trips to the hydraulic and steam generating
plants along the St. Joseph river.
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I.
READINGS AND DECLAMATIONS. This course
is designed to correct defects in pronunciation and
emphasis. Each student is required to give two decla-
mations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
II.
READINGS AND DECLAMATIONS. Continua-
tion of Course I. Each student is required to give.three
declamations.	/
[One hour a	week for	one term.]	j
in.	!
PRACTICAL ELOCUTION. Exercises in breath-
ing, voice culture and action. The principles of pro-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 149
nunciation and emphasis and their application in the
reading of selections. Text-book, Fzdton and True-
blood's Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
- IV.
PRACTICAL ELOCUTION. Further exercises in
breathing, voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch
and time. Minute speeches and declamations. Lec-
tures on the principles of action. Text-book, Fulton
and Trueblood's Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
V.
ORAL DISCUSSIONS. The application of formal
logic to debating. Analysis of selected argumentative
speeches, and the preparation of briefs. Courses III.
and IV. and a course in logic are required for admission
to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-four
students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.	'
ORATORY. A study of the great orators of ancient
and modern times. Each student is required to write
and deliver a biographical oration on one of the great
orators. Lectures on methods of public address. Courses
III. and IV. above, and course I. in English are re-
quired for admission to this course. Sections are
limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VII.
SHAKESPEAREAN READING. The critical and
artistic reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accom-
panied with stage action. The students present the
play by scenes before the class. Courses III. and IV.
150
BULLETIN OF THE
are required for admission to this course. Sections are
limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VIII.
ASSEMBLY WORK. This course is designed to
supplement the other courses in this department. It
consists of debates, short orations, minute speeches,
declamations, impromptu and drill work in parliament-
ary law.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
ENGLISH
I.
GENUNG’S PRINCIPLES OF RHETORIC. A
study of the complete text. Frequent practice in simple
theme work, versification. Writing in all literary forms
and assigned readings.*
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IL
(a)	ESSAY AND ORATION. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	POETRY AND THE POETS. Texts, theory
and critical study.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
III.
FICTION, (a) The Short Story, technically, his-
torically and critically considered.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
* Every Freshman will be obliged to follow a class in correct English, one
hour a week, unless his written work gives evidence that he may be dispensed
from this special exercise. Any student notably deficient in correct English
will be obliged to take this course.

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 151'
(b) The Novel, technically, historically and crit-
ically considered.
[Three hours a week for twenty-two weeks.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
IV.
THE DRAMA. (a) Historical Survey of the
Drama. Greek and Roman Dramatists. Liturgical,
Morality and Miracle Plays. Technique of the Drama.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of
Shakespeare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen, weeks.]
(c)	• Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present
time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects specified attention will be given
to current productions with a view of properly ac-
quainting the student with the writers of the day.
V.
BUSINESS ENGLISH. This course is designed to
nleet the needs of students following the program of
Commerce. Accuracy and speed in the various busi-
ness forms will be demanded for credit in this subject.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
GRADUATE WORK IN ENGLISH. Students
wishing to do advanced work in English will be pro-
vided with library facilities and led through the usual
work for the degree of Master of Letters or Doctor of
Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Faculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form
or epoch, or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by professors make up the course.
Q
152	BULLETIN OF THE
GEOLOGY
I.
PRINCIPLES OF GEOLOGY. Lectures, recita-
tions, demonstrations. The study of the general
features of the earth; the material composing the acces-
sible parts of the earth; the arrangements of the material
in rocks; the causes of geological changes; the history
of the earth and the various forms of life that existed
in the different periods of successive geological ages.
Text-book, Brigham.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
MINERALOGY. The object of this course is to
train the student to identify minerals by their phy-
sical characteristics, such as crystal form, cleavage,
color, hardness and specific gravity without having to
resort to blowpipe or chemical tests except in the rare
minerals. Recitations are made upon drawers of min-
erals in which the student points out the distinguishing
features by which he recognizes the different minerals.
Text-book, Dana.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
III.
MINERALOGY. Lectures, recitations, and labora-
tory work. A study of crystallography and the classi-
fication of minerals, accompanied by practice in the
laboratory and museum in the determination of min-
erals, especially the ores. Blow-pipe analysis. Text-
book, Crosby.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
IV.
CRYSTALLOGRAPHY. In this course there is
made a complete study of the laws in the different sys-
tems of crystal formation, by means of laboratory work
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 153
in models, natural crystals and cleavage specimens.
Text-book, Williams.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
V.	,
PETROGRAPHY. This course is a study of rocks
with regard to their classification, structure, mineral-
ogical constituents, chemical composition and altera-
tions; a study of the physical characters of the minerals
shown in thin transparent rock sections with the aid
of the microscope; a practical study of rocks in the
hand specimens and also in summer field work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
VI.
GEOLOGY, PHYSICAL AND CHEMICAL. A
course treating of the origin and alterations of rocks,
of general eruptive and earthquake action, metamor-
phism, faulting, jointing, and mountain building: the
action of atmospheric agencies, surface and underground
water. All of which subjects are especially considered
in their application to mining pursuits. Text-book,
Chamberlain and Salisbury's Geology.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIL
GEOLOGY, ECONOMIC MINING. A study of
the genesis of the useful ore deposits, both metallic
and non-metallic; an analysis of the relation existing
between structural, dynamic and chemical geology,
petrography and the ore deposits encountered in min-
ing operations. Frequent reference is made to the
bulletins, monographs and reports of the United States
Geological Survey. Text-books, Spurr, Reis.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
154
BULLETIN OF THE
GERMAN
I.
GRAMMAR. Translation from German into Eng-
lish of simple prose; translation of English exercises
into German. Reading of short stories and selections
from more difficult prose. Text-book, Bacon.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Grammar. Translation into German of narrative
prose and selections from history. Sight reading of
selections from history. Text-book, Bacon.
Herman and Dorothea, Geothe; Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Sight reading of plays, poems and prose writing.
Translation of selections from history and literature;
original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing; Best known poems,
Heine; Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK
I.
HOMER. Iliad. Text Edition.
LYSIAS. Select Orations.
ST. JOHN CHRYSOSTOM. Eutropius. (Elective.)
Prose Composition.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
II.
HOMER. Odyssey. Text Edition. (Elective.)
Selections from Herodotus.
ST. BASIL. De Profanis Scriptoribus.
ST. GREGORY. Machabees. (Elective.)
Advanced Prose Composition.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF. NOTRE DAME 155
III.
DEMOSTHENES. The Speech on the Crown, or
the Olynthiacs and the Philippics.
THUCYDIDES. One book, selected. {Elective.}
AESCHYLUS. One play, selected. {Elective.}.
SOPHOCLES. Oedipus Tyrannus.
PRIMER OF GREEK LITERATURE. Jebb.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
EURIPIDES. One play, selected.
ARISTOPHANES. One play, selected.
PINDAR. Selected Odes. {Elective.}
PLATO. The Apology and Crito.
THESIS. Subject assigned or selected with approval
of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
GREEK FATHERS: St. Basil: The Martyr
Gordius.—St. John Chrysostom: The Return of Bis-
hop Flavian.—St. Gregory Nazianzen: Funeral Ora-
tion of Caesarius. {Electives.}
GRADUATE WORK IN GREEK. Advanced cour-
ses of instruction in the Greek language and literature
will be provided for graduate students who look for-
ward to the Master’s or Doctor’s degree. The center
of work will be the Greek seminar, devoted to the in-
terpretation of passages selected for that purpose by
the director of the seminar, and to a critical study of
one particular author or group of authors in the
same department of Greek literature; as for instance,
Homer, Plato or the orators, the historians, the dra-
matists, etc.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on the history of comparative philology, on
comparative grammar, and on the Greek dialects.
I
156	BULLETIN OF THE
>
For those who desire a broader basis for their lin-
guistic studies, an elementary course in Sanskrit will
be offered.
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	ANCIENT GREECE to the conquest by Rome
of the Hellenic world. Readings and examinations on
required texts.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(b)	ANCIENT ROME to the Barbarian invasions.
Readings and examinations on required texts.
In both courses the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges' The Ancient City.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
II.
(a) THE HISTORY OF WESTERN EUROPE
FROM THE BEGINNING OF THE CHRISTIAN
ERA TO 1648. The conflict of Paganism and Christian-
ity; the development of the Church; the invasion of
the barbarians; these form the principal topics of study
before taking up the periods of the Renaissance and the
Reformation. Special attention is given to the courses
of the two great movements and their effects on the
Political, Social and Religious history of Europe.
Readings and examinations on required texts.
{b) THE GENERAL HISTORY OF EUROPE
FROM THE CLOSE OF THE THIRTY YEARS
WAR TO THE PRESENT TIME. In this course
close attention is paid to the rise and development of
modern European countries. Careful study is made
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 157
of the economic development of Europe, the French
Revolution and the Napoleonic Era. The work closes
with a comparative study of the modern European
institutions. Readings and examinations on required
texts.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
III.
THE HISTORY OF THE BRITISH ISLES FROM
THE ROMAN INVASION TO THE PRESENT
TIME. For the narrative Gardiner’s, Student’s His-
tory is used as a text and is supplemented by lectures.
Special attention is given to the study of the develop-
ment of political institutions as also to the progress of
Economic thought in England. Regular reports by
students on special topics are required.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY
IV.
(a) AMERICAN HISTORY FROM ITS BEGIN-
NING TO THE PRESENT TIME. A large part of
the work of this course consists in the preparation and
presentation in class of special topics by the students.
An effort will be made to train the student in the use
of original sources as well as in the discriminating use
of secondary works. Weekly written tests are given
upon the lectures and the assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
(&)	AMERICAN CHURCH HISTORY FROM
ITS BEGINNING TO THE PRESENT TIME.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IRISH HISTORY
V.
(a)	IRISH HISTORY FROM THE EARLIEST
COLONISTS TO THE PRESENT TIME. The pur-
158	BULLETIN OF THE
pose of the course is to acquaint the student with the
true story of Ireland by presenting a statement of facts.
Early Irish religious beliefs, customs, racial charac-
teristics, systems of government are discussed, and spe-
cific topics are assigned for research.
(b)	A course of lectures on the modern Celtic move-
ment with a study of the modern Irish writers.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLISH HISTORY
VI.
History of the primitive Slavs. The Rise of the Polish
Nation. The Epoch of the Piast-Dynasty (962-1386).
The Jagiellonian Epoch (1386-1572).
Poland during the rule of the Elector Kings (1572-
1795).
Poland in its Partitions. From 1795 to the present
time. Polish Emigration.
No particular text-book is used in this course. It
is a lecture-course; and the student is required to
read up the principal authors, along the line of the
notes gathered from the lectures in class.
GENERAL HISTORY
VII.
A general course in medieval and modern history with
special reference to its most important periods.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
RESEARCH WORK IN HISTORY. Facilities are
offered to graduate students who wish to do advanced
work in history leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s
degree. Evidence of ability to begin specializing must
be given by candidates who have received their Bach-
elor’s degree at another College. The work is directed
in the seminar and is supplemented by lectures.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 159
JOURNALISM
I.
A brief survey of the field; metropolitan and small
city dailies, country weeklies, class and trade papers;
magazines; also a general study oithe nature, gather-
ing, reporting and writing of news; interviews; dra-
matic and other criticism; editorial writing; head writ-
t
ing and make up; organization of a newspaper staff.
• [Four hours a week for two terms.]
ii.
A detailed study of news and its handling, news
values, classes of news, newspaper style, forms of news
stories, interviews, criticism, features and special arti-
cles, with copious practice in actual assignments and
in correspondence; verification of principles by study
of fifty daily newspapers.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
iii.
Newspaper fields and newspaper properties; equip-
ment; source of income; developing subscription and
advertising patronage; advertising rates; self adver-
tising; co-operation of editorial department; sources
of expense; newspaper accounting.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Psychology of advertising; advertising mediums;
relation of advertising to distribution and price; its
social influence; good and bad copy; trade marks;
elements in the advertising problem—the consumer,
the commodity, the medium, competition, timeliness;
publisher’s responsibility for advertising, the ethical
and the business view point.
[Four hours a week for two terms]
160
BULLETIN OF THE
LATIN
I.
LIVY. Selections. Dennison.
VERGIL. Bucolics and Georgies. Frieze.
CICERO. De Senectute and De Amicitia. Shuck-
bur gh-Egbert.
PROSE COMPOSITION. Scheier.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
CICERO. De Oratore. Wilkins.
HORACE. Odes and Satires. Wickham.
ADVANCED PROSE COMPOSITION. Scheier.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
LIVY. Book I. Dennison.
HORACE. The Literary Epistles and the Ars Poetica.
Wickham.
TACITUS. Agricola and Germania. Gudeman.
TERENCE. One Play, selected.
ORIGINAL THEMES: (Two a month).
SEMINAR. Papers on the Authors and their Works.
(Once a month).
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
QUINTILIAN. De Institutione Oratoria, Books
X. and XII. Frieze.
PLAUTUS. Captivi. Barber.
CICERO. De Officiis. Crowell.
A THESIS. Subject assigned or selected with ap-
proval of the dean. About 2500 words in length.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
GRADUATE WORK IN LATIN. Advanced cour-
ses of instruction in the Latin language and literature
will be" provided for graduate students who are candi-
dates for the degree of Master or Doctor. The work
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 161
will be directed in the seminar and be devoted to a
critical study of one particular author or group of
authors.
The work of the seminar will be supplemented by
lectures on comparative philology and comparative
grammar.
MATHEMATICS
I.
ALGEBRA. This course includes a study of the bino-
mial theorem, the theory of logarithms, choice, chance,
variables and limits, series, determinants. Then follows
a thorough study of the general properties and solution
of equations, embracing the subjects of derivatives,
transformation, detached coefficients, surd and imagi-
nary roots, incommensurable roots, limits of roots,
biquadratic equations, DesCartes’ and Cardan’s rules;
Sturm’s theorem, Horner’s method. Text-book,
Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
II.
ANALYTIC GEOMETRY. This course includes a
study of the point and right line; conic sections; their
equations and properties; discussion of the general
equation of the second degree containing two variables;
different systems of co-ordinates; transformation of
co-ordinates; an elementary course in geometry of
three dimensions, embracing the point, straight line,
plane and surfaces of revolution; transformation of
co-ordinates; quadric surfaces and supplementary pro-
positions. Text-book, Bailey and Woods.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
III.
CALCULUS, DIFFERENTIAL. This course in-
cludes a study of the methods for the differentiation
162
BULLETIN OF THE
of algebraic, logarithmic and exponential, trigono-
metric, and inverse trigonometric functions, successive
differentiation, and differential coefficients; treatment
of implicit and compound functions; expansion of func-.
tions; indeterminate forms; partial differential coeffi-
cients of the first order and of higher orders; direction
of curvature; radius of curvature; envelopes; maxima
and minima of functions of one independent variable,
and of several independent variables; tracing curves;
differentials of arcs, plane areas, surfaces and volumes
of revolution. Text-book, Osborn.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
IV.
CALCULUS, INTEGRAL. Integration of elemen-
tary form and of rational fractions; integration by
rationalization and by parts; successive integration;
multiple integrals; definite integrals, limits of integra-
tion; double integration applied to plane areas; recti-
fication of plane curves; quadratures of plane areas
and surfaces of revolution; surface and volume of any
solid; intrinsic equation of curve. This course is supple-
mented by numerous exercises and examples. Text-
book, Osborn.	.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
V.
DIFFERENTIAL EQUATIONS. An elementary
course for Engineering students, supplementary to
the course of integral calculus. It embraces equations
of the first order and degree; equations of the first order,
but not of the first degree; singular solutions; linear
equations with constant coefficients; special forms of
equations with higher orders. Numerous applications
to mechanics and physics are introduced during the
course. Text-book, Murray.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 163
ADVANCED WORK. The prescribed courses in
pure mathematics are I. to V. inclusive. The following
advanced courses are offered; based on standard authors.
The text-books are not necessarily the same every year.
The number of students required to constitute a class
in any one subject must be at least five.
MECHANICAL ENGINEERING
I.
THERMODYNAMICS. The subject begins with a
theoretical study of the steam engine, gas engine, steam
turbines and other heat motors involving the laws of
thermodynamics of gases, saturated vapors and super-
heated steam. The applications of this preliminary
work are then dwelt upon, and prime movers, the
injector, condenser, refrigerating machinery, boilers
and pumps are studied in detail. During the second
term a study of the different types of internal combus-
tion engines is made together with a general study of
costs in operating power plants. Frequent reference is
made to trade catalogues, of which an abundant supply
should be obtained by the student. Text-book, Car-
dullo’s Thermodynamics', References: The Steam Engine
and Turbine, Heck', Steam Engine Theory and Practice,
Ripper.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
' II.
MATERIALS OF ENGINEERING. This course,
supplemented by shop work and laboratory work in
testing materials of construction, is designed for the
purpose of acquainting the student with the properties
of the material he will use in his profession. Tensile
and shearing strength, elasticity and resistance are
studied, together with the effects of strain, intermittent
164	BULLETIN OF THE
loading and impact. The process of manufacture of the
most important materials is taken up, and estimates of
the cost of construction at market prices complete the
work. Text-book, Thurston's Materials of Engineering.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
III.
STEAM POWER PLANTS. The preliminary work
of this course comprehends a brief study of the history
of the steam engine together with its development and
differentiation into the standard types at present on
the market. Subsequently, the elements controlling
designs for specific purposes are considered. Finally
the study of the Power Plant as a whole is taken up
and the relations between engines, turbines, pumps,
condensers, boilers, piping, fuel and auxiliaries are
dwelt upon in detail. A completely worked out plan
for a specific equipment is required of each student.
The text-book is Gebhardt’s Steam Power Plant En-
gineering; References: Steam Power Plants, Meyers;
The Mechanical Engineering of Power Plants, Hutton;
Steam-Electric Power Plants, Koester.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
STEAM BOILERS. This subject is treated much as
that of Course III. The determination of sizes of
parts from consideration of strains, thickness of shells,
size of rivets, braces, furnaces and proper methods
of connection of boilers, with efficiency of furnaces
and life of boiler are some of the subjects considered.
The method of determining the efficiency of fuels,
heating surfaces, heights of chimneys, boiler setting
and materials used in connection are also discussed.
Text-book, Steam Boilers by Munro. '
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 165
V.
KINEMATICS. This course treats of the geometry
of machinery, the determination of the paths of the
various parts of an elementary combination and the
constraining of the parts to move in these paths. The
general theory is then applied to cams and gear teeth,
the relative motion of machine parts and the kinematic
trains, belts, pulleys, speed cones, link work and other
aggregate combinations. Barr's Kinematics of Ma-
chinery is the text-book used.
[Two hours’ recitation and two hours’ drawing
a week for one term.]
VI.
(a) MACHINE DESIGN. This work involves a
study of the form and strength of machine parts as
applied in designing, with computation of dimensions
for fastenings, bearings, rotating pieces, belt and tooth
gearing, etc. The derivation of rational formulae and
the determination of empirical formulae are included
and applied in designing. The text-books used are
Unwin's Elements of Machine Design, Low's 'Handbook
for Mechanical Engineers and Reed's Machine Design
and Drawing.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
(&)	VALVE GEARS. This includes a complete
study of the Bilgram diagram as applied to side valves
and the principal automatic cut-off engines. The
radical gears, such as Hackworth, Walschaert, Marshall
and Joy are treated in the same way, and in conclusion
the student is made familiar with the various types of
Corliss valves, shifting eccentrics and like motions. The
text-book is Halsey's Valve Gears.
[One hour a week for one term.]
166
BULLETIN OF THE
VII.
GAS POWER PLANTS. A study from text-book,
reference works, current technical magazines and
catalogues of manufacturers of- the adaptation of the
various types of prime movers availabe as power
sources. From a set of specifications for a given power
plant submitted to the student, a detailed plan is
required, showing the selection and arrangement of
the power units, method of piping, arrangement of
fuel handling apparatus and other auxiliaries.
Must be preceded by Course X. and taken in conjunc-
tion with Course XI.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
MECHANICAL LABORATORY. The work taken
up includes a study of the methods of testing the steam
engine under varying running conditions, valve setting,
calibration of thermometers, gauges and indicator
springs, use of Prony brake, Weber and Emerson dyna-
mometers, Pelton water wheel, Weir calibration, etc.
Text-book, Carpenter s Experimental Engineering.
[Five consecutive hours a week for one term.]
IX.
STEAM ENGINES AND BOILERS. A brief course
in the study of boilers and steam engines designed to
familiarize the student with the different types in use
and their respective merits. Only that theory is taken
up which is necessary to the working out of problems,
the ultimate object of the course.
Students taking this course must provide themselves
with an abundant supply of trade catalogues. Text-
book, Power and Power Transmission, Kerr.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 167
GAS AND VAPOR ENGINES. This course, ex-
tending over two terms, is given to a general descrip-
tive study of all the types of gas engines and explosive
motors. The general construction of gas, oil, vapor
engines is studied together with their adaptation to
various uses.
Results due to change in ignition, compression and
variation of working fluid; methods of speed regu-
lation and government and the details of auxiliaries
as, pumps, carburetors, hot tubes, batteries, spark
coils and dynamos are dwelt upon. The text-book
used is Gas, Oil and Vapor Engines by Hiscox. -
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
XI.
GAS ENGINE DESIGN. A complete study of the
thermodynamics and design of the gas engine, by text-
book, lectures and drawing board. The major subjects
taken up are power, efficiency, economy, forces due
to gas pressure and inertia and dimensions of engine
parts. Luke's Gas Engine Design is the text-book used.
[Five hours’ recitation and ten hours’ drawing
a week for two terms.]
XII.
GAS ENGINE CONSTRUCTION. The complete
working up from rough castings and forgings of a
small type of gas engine. This is part of the thesis
work for students in the Short Program and requires
the complete machining and assembling of the engine
and must be preceded by Courses X. and XI.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
XIII.
GAS ENGINE LABORATORY. Indicator practice,
commercial efficiency, governing economy, speed regu-
168	BULLETIN OF THE
lation. Experiments in ignition, spark coil construc-
tion, carburetors and vaporizers. Test of engine con-
structed by the student.
[Two afternoons each week for two terms.]
SHOP WORK
XIV.
(a) WOODWORK. Exercises in planing, splicing,
framing, scroll sawing and turning.
(&) APPLICATION OF CARPENTRY to pattern
making, cores, etc., including parts of machines, pipe
joints, cranks and bearings.
(c)	FOUNDRY PRACTICE. Setting up and draw-
ing simple and complicated patterns. Lectures on heat-
ing and pouring metals for different purposes. Core
making.
(d)	IRON FORGING, welding, annealing, shaping,
tool making, tempering and case hardening.
(e)	BENCHWORK in iron, including surface chip-
ping, key setting, draw filing, scraping and polishing.
(f)	ACCURATE WORK on the lathe, planer, shaft-
ing and milling machines. Construction of machine
tools, reamers, taps, twist drills, gear wheels and com-
plete machines.
[Each section three hours a week for one term.]
THESIS. Each candidate for a degree in Mechanical
Engineering must present for graduation a thesis of
considerable magnitude which will exhibit his know-
ledge of the courses he has followed. It may embrace
designing, experimental investigation or original re-
search, in a subject selected by the student and approved
by the professor. The major part of the second term,
Senior year, is devoted to this work, and graduation
is conditional upon the knowledge of mechanical en-
gineering displayed in its preparation.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 169
METALLURGY
I.
METALLURGY. Among the subjects studied in
this course are the following—classification of ores,
sampling, crushing, milling practice, roasting’ and
smelting; the various extraction processes of the fol-
lowing metals—gold, silver, copper, lead and zinc,
are given special attention; the production of pig iron
in blast furnaces.
A trip of inspection is made to smelting plants,
blast furnaces and mills (stamps and rolls) in order
to familiarize the student with metallurgic plants in
operation.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
II.
ASSAYING. This course consists of a series of actual
determinations of the quantity and value of gold, silver
and lead in the various ores by the crucible and scorifica-
tion methods of the fire assay; the assaying of gold
and silver bullion; determining the strength of cyanide
working solutions; the assay of gold bearing cyanide
solutions; and wet determinations of copper and zinc.
[Eight hours a week for one term.]
III.
ASSAYING. Chiefly laboratory work. Furnace
assaying of the ores of gold, silver and lead. Text-
book, Ricketts.
[Two laboratory hours a week for one term.]
IV.	.
ORE DRESSING. A course in which a detailed
study is pursued of the various processes of mechanically
separating and saving valuable minerals from the
valueless gangue of ores, whereby the valuable minerals
170	BULLETIN OF THE
are concentrated into smaller bulk and weight by
discarding a large portion of the waste.	-
The principal subjects treated are: Preliminary and
final crushing by means of. rock-breakers, steam and
gravity stamps with amalgamation; rolls, Chilian,
Huntington; tube and ball mills; screen sizing and
classifying; sand and slime concentrating on jigs, tables
and vanners; magnetic separation, pneumatic con-
centration, oil flotation processes; locating and con-
structing the mill. The course includes a trip of in-
spection to a number of the most modern concentrating
mills in the lake Superior district where the student
engages in practical work in the study of mill construc-
tion, operation and efficiency. Text-book, Richards.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
MINING ENGINEERING
I.
MINING ENGINEERING, PRINCIPLES OF.
This course includes a general study of Mining opera-
tions divided into the following subjects: Occurrence
of minerals in the earth’s crust, discovery, boring,
excavation, supporting excavations, exploitation, haul-
age, hoisting, drainage, ventilation, lighting, access,
ore dressing and treatment. Text-book, Foster and
Brough.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
MINE SURVEYING. A study of the subject of
surveying in its special application to mines, through
lectures, plotting of problems and recitations; for stu-
dents who take the summer course in the mines. The
following subjects receive particular attention—record-
ing of notes in underground traverses and their subse-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 171
quent plotting, a comparison of metal mine and coal
mine surveys, the methods of connecting surface with
underground surveys by means of both the auxiliary
telescope and plumb lines and the deputy mineral sur-
veyor’s methods of surveying mining claims for patent.
Each student is required to make a complete mine map
from notes of actual mine surveys. Text-book", Trum-
bull.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
MICROSCOPY
I	.
MICROSCOPY. Lectures and laboratory work.
Refraction and dispersion of light and illumination.
The index of refraction in different media. Different
shapes of lenses. Spherical and chromatic aberration.
The selection and care of a good microscope. The use
of accessories for advanced work; immersion and ad-
justable objectives, camera lucida, sub-stage condenser,
polarizer, micrometers, etc. Special work in photo-
micrography. Text-book, Gage. Given in connection
with Bacteriology.
IL
MICRO-CHEMISTRY. Laboratory work. The
preparation of micro-chemical reagents and their appli-
cation in testing, fixing, hardening, staining, cleaning
and mounting tissues and organs.
[One laboratory hour a week for one term.]
MUSIC
FIRST YEAR
I.
VIOLIN. Studies by Wichtl, Ries, Mazas, Kreutzer,
Fiorillo. Compositions by Dancla, DeBeriot, Sitt.
172
BULLETIN OF THE
II.
PIANOFORTE. Koehler’s and Damm’s Piano
School. Studies by Loeschorn, Berens, Czerny, Heller,
Sonatinas and easy sonatas by Clementi, Haydn,
Reinecke and Mozart. Jugend Album and Kinder-
scenen by Schumann.
III.
VOICE PRODUCTION. Tone placing. Diaph-
ragmatic breathing-control. Articulation. Text-book,
Shakespeare’s Art of Singing, Part I.; Kofler’s Art of
Breathing', Studies by Bassini, English songs.
VOCAL SIGHT READING. Elementary theory of
Music. Intervals and ear-training. Choir practice.
IV.
ORGAN. Rink Organ School. Eugene Thayer
Studies, Light Preludss and Fugues by Bach.
SECOND YEAR
la.
VIOLIN. Studies by Rode, Schradieck, Dont.
Sonatas, and pieces by Tartini, Bach Beethoven,
Mozart.
Ha.
PIANOFORTE. Studies by Czerny, Heller, Hasert,
Lecouppy, Cramer, Krause. Octave studies by Turner.
Bach’s preludes, fugues and inventions. Sonatas and
pieces by Mozart, Haydn, Beethoven, Mendelsohn,
Schumann, Schubert.
Illa.
VOICE PRODUCTION*. Advanced breathing exer-
cises. Study of the chest and falsetto registers. Stroke
of the glottis. Text-books, Shakespeare’s Art of Sing-
ing, Parts II. and III. Studies from Italian operas;
French and English songs.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 173
VOCAL SIGHT READING. Phrasing, punctuation
and advanced study. Practice in operatic chorus-work.
IVa.
ORGAN. Schneider-Warren Pedal Studies. Easy
sonatas by Mendelsohn, Merkel, Rheinberger. Pre-
ludes, fugues by Bach. Twenty Studies by Whiting.
Canonic Studies by Chadwick.
Va.
HARMONY. Construction and use of chords. Har-
monizing from figured bass. Text-books, Goetshius
Tone Relations; Logier’s Harmony.
THIRD YEAR
lb.
VIOLIN. Sonatas by Bach. Studies by Schradieck-
Alward, Wieniawski. Concertos and pieces by Spohr,
Vieuxtemps, Mendelsohn, Dvorak.
lib.
PIANOFORTE. Gradus ad Parnassum. Clementi-
Tausig, Das Wohl Temperirte Klavier by Bach. English
and French Suites by Bach. Etudes by Harberbier and
Henselt. Sonatas, concertos and pieces by Beethoven,
Weber, Mendelsohn, Chopin, Schubert and Grieg.
HIb.
VOICE PRODUCTION. Study of trill, mordent,
gruppetto, etc. Messa de Voce.
IVb.
ORGAN. Sonatas, preludes and Chorale Vorspiele
by Bach. Concert pieces by Handel, Merkel, Salome,
Whistling, Best, Rheinberger.
IVb.
HARMONY. Counterpoint. Simple two and four
part counterpart; double and florid counterpart. Canon,
fugue.
174
BULLETIN OF THE
FOURTH YEAR
Ic.
VIOLIN. Studies by Paganini. Concertos and pieces
by Beethoven, Brahms, Burch, Joachim and others,
lie.
PIANOFORTE. Studies by Tausig and Chopin.
Sonatas, concertos and concert pieces by Schumann,
Brahms, Rubinstein, Liszt.
IIIc.
ORGAN. The greater preludes, fantasies and fugues
of Bach. Sonatas and concert pieces by Thiele, Widor,
Dubois, Builment and Saint-Saens.
IVc.
HARMONY. Composition. Construction of musical
forms, i. e., the sonata, rondo, etc. Practical applica-
tion in an original manner of these forms. Orchestration.
ORCHESTRAL INSTRUMENTS
Instruction is also given on. the viola, flute, piccolo,
cornet, trombone, guitar and mandolin.
Opportunity is given to the advanced students of
playing in the University Orchestra and the University
Band.
SINGING CLASS
There is an organization of musical students open
only to those taking lessons in vocal music; the Choir
'and the Glee Club are selected from the members of
this class.
PHARMACY
I.
ELEMENTS OF PHARMACY—Lectures and re-
citations on the art and science of pharmacy, and dem-
onstrations of the various pharmaceutical processes.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 175
II.
GALENICAL PHARMACY. A laboratory course
to accompany Course I. This course consists of the
practical application of the pharmaceutical processes
to the manufacture of official preparations of the
United States Pharmacopoeia and of unofficial and
N. F. preparations.
[Four hours a week for thirty-six weeks.]
HL
INORGANIC PHARMACY. Laboratory, demon-
strations and recitations. A thorough course in the
preparation and testing of pharmaceutical and technical
chemicals.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
IV.
GENERAL PHARMACY. A systematic classifica-
tion of organic and inorganic drugs and preparations
from a pharmaceutical standpoint followed by a close
study of each of the classes.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
V.
MAGISTRAL PHARMACY. Includes the mani-
fold methods of extemporaneous pharmacy with con-
sideration of incompatiblity, posology, and the principles
of elegant pharmacy. Dispensing and prescription
practice.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
VI.
(a) PHARMACEUTICAL CHEMISTRY. Chiefly
assaying, testing and manufacturing. Determination of
176
BULLETIN OF THE
melting and boiling points, and solubilities. Some
attention is given also to toilet and commercial pre-
parations with a view to the invention and development
of original formulas.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
® PHARMACEUTICAL PHARMACY. Assay-
ing and manufacturing.
[Six hours a week for one term.]
VIL
GENERAL PHARMACY. Pharmaceutical analysis
and assaying, micro-chemical, polariscopic and spectro-
scopic estimations. Incompatibilities and methods of
manufacture.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
MATERIA MEDICA. This work embraces a
detailed consideration of botanical drugs, their phar-
maceutical definition and description, constituents,
habitat, therapeutic action, use, dose and antidote.
Attention is given also to mineral drugs and those of
animal origin. They are studied individually at first,
then in classes or groups. The grouping is so arranged
as to make the subject comparatively easy for the
student.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
IX.
PHARMACEUTICAL ARITHMETIC. This work
includes a study of weights and measures, percentage,
relationship of systems, reducing and enlarging formulas,
alligation and chemical problems.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
X.
PHARMACOGNOSY. The indentification of pre-
parations and crude drugs by their physical properties
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 177
with special reference to quality and detection of adul-
teration. Attention is also given to the methods of
preventing loss by improper storage or by the ravages
of insects. Important drugs are studied under the
microscope in cross section and in powder form.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
XL
COMMERCIAL PHARMACY. A brief course in
business method, store-management, banking, account-
ing, and everything connected with the commercial
side of pharmacy. Likewise a number of lectures on
Pharmaceutical Jurisprudence and Commercial Law.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
PHILOSOPHY
I.
(a) PHYSIOLOGICAL PSYCHOLOGY. This
course is a fairly comprehensive . treatment of the
physical basis of consciousness. Experimental and
Descriptive Psychology. The primary laws on con-
sciousness; psycho-physical methods and results.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&)	LABORATORY EXERCISES. Experiments
will be conducted with special reference to their value
as aids to introspection. Sanford's Manual of Experi-
mental Psychology', Titchener's Experimental Psychology,
Vol. I.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	ELEMENTS OF EPISTEMOLOGY. A study
of the Scholastic theory of- knowledge in relation to the
teachings of Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley,
Hume, Kant and Spencer.
178	BULLETIN OF THE
(b)	LOGIC. Text-book and lectures.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
m.
GENERAL METAPHYSICS. Transcendental con-
cepts: their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
IV.
COSMOLOGY. The fundamental concepts of natural
science in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
V.
THEODICY. The existence of God; His attributes*
His presence in the universe.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
VI.
RATIONAL PSYCHOLOGY. The problems of the
mind. Nature, origin and destiny of the soul. The
nature and freedom of the will.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks J
VIL
J
ETHICS. A thorough study of the general principles
underlying Ethics. Present day problems will be dis-
cussed in the light of these principles. A brief presenta-
tion of Sociology and Socialism will be given. The
instruction will be by text-book, lectures and consider-
able collateral reading.
[Four hours a week for twenty-seven weeks.]
VIII.
THE HISTORY OF PHILOSOPHY. This course
is intended to give the student in consecutive form the
principal systems and philosophers in the Ancient,
Medieval and Modern periods. It will likewise serve
as a review of the subjects treated in the general course
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 179
of Philosophy. Philosophic Movements of the present
day and writers of note in present philosophic thought
will be discussed.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
IX.
This course is for students following the Law. Its
purpose is to give them a thorough training in correct
thinking and to acquaint them with the problems of
ethics in general and in particular to note the bearings
of ethical principles in the Law. Sociology and Social-
ism are briefly presented.
(a) LOGIC. Text-book, lectures and readings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(&) ETHICS. Text-book, lectures and readings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
4
PHILOSOPHY, BRIEF COURSE. A general course
designed to acquaint the student with the important
problems of philosophy. It is hoped sufficient interest
will be aroused in the student in this abridged presenta-
tion to enable him to continue, of his own accord, an
intelligent study of this important subject. It is re-
quired of Engineering and Science students.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
XL
This is a two year course in Scholastic philosophy
based on regular Scholastic manuals—Reinstadler's
Elementa Philosophiae Scholasticae is used at the pre-
sent time. This course is given primarily for students
who intend to enter the priesthood.
1.	Logica. [Five hours a w’eek for nine weeks.]
2.	.Criteriologia. [Five hours a week for nine weeks.]
3.	Ontologia. [Five hours a week for nine weeks.]
180
BULLETIN OF THE
4.	Cosmologia. [Five hours a week for nine weeks.]
5.	Anthropologia. [Five hours a week for eighteen-
weeks.]
6.	Theodicea. [Five hours a week for nine weeks.]
7.	Ethica. [Five hours a week for nine weeks.]
The History of Philosophy runs parallel with the
subjects treated. There is considerable collateral
reading demanded.
STUDENT DISCUSSIONS. From time to time
throughout the year students will be required to read
and discuss papers on various subjects in the field of
philosophic inquiry.
GRADUATE WORK IN PHILOSOPHY. Graduate
work in the department of philosophy, leading to the
dgree of Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by
students who have pursued the course described above.
Candidates who have made undergraduate studies
elsewhere must give evidence of ability to begin spec-
ializing at once. In the first and second years, research
work will be conducted in the seminar and the psy-
chological laboratory. In the first year, students will
have the benefit of frequent consultation with the pro-
fessors.
PHYSICS
I.
(a) PHYSICS. Instruction in Physics is given by
lectures and recitations in which the general laws of
mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity and
magnetism are presented. The course is intended to
meet the needs of those who desire a general knowledge
of the subjects, as well as to lay the foundations for
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
181
advanced work. Particular attention is paid to the
correct statement of principles, so that in his advanced
work the student will have nothing to unlearn or relearn.
Text-book, Carhart and Chute.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(V) THE LABORATORY WORK of this course
consists of a series of experiments which verify and
apply practically the fundamental principles of physics.
The student also receives instruction in the use and
careful handling of apparatus, accurate observation,
and correct deduction of results. Neat and concise
reports of all experiments are kept by each student and
form the basis for the grades in his work.
[Two hours a week for two terms.]
IL
GENERAL PHYSICS. In this course there is a
more extended treatment of the same subjects than is
given in Course I. Mathematical principles are applied
to physical phenomena. Special attention is paid to
accuracy in the mathematical work and in the state-
ments of the principles involved. Lectures and recita-
tions. Text-book, Cxgwe.	t
[Three hours a week for two terms.] ’
HL
(a) LABORATORY. The application of mathe-
matics in physical work. Measurements of length,
mass and time. Work in mechanics, heat, light, sound,
electricity and magnetism. The work is done in the
laboratory and the student is taught to depend on his
own resources and to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
(Z>) LABORATORY. For Mechanical and Electrical
Engineering students. The application of mathematics
182	BULLETIN OF THE
in physical work. Measurements of length, mass and
time. Work in mechanics, light and sound. The work
is done in the laboratory and the student is taught
to depend on his own resources and to check his results.
[Two laboratory hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
PHYSICAL LABORATORY. Students in Electrical
and Mechanical Engineering will have a special set of
experiments on electricity, comprising special advanced
work in heat, magnetism, general electricity, galvan-
ometry, electrical quantity, induction, the magnetic
properties of iron. Accuracy in observation and in
the calculation and recording of the results is required.
This course must be preceded by Courses II. and III.
(a) ELECTRICAL MEASUREMENTS. Labora-
tory practice with galvanometers, voltmeters, ammeters
and wattmeters, resistance work, the relation or equi-
valence between electric energy and heat, ^capacity
and inductance, insulation tests.
(&) CALORIMETRY. Accurate work in laboratory,
using methods of mixtures, bomb and other calorimeters
in measuring the calorific values of gaseous and solid
fuels, quantitative measurements of radiation^ and con-
duction of heat as applied to pipe coverings, etc.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
V.
METEOROLOGY. A government station was in-
stalled at the University by the United States Weather
Bureau in March, 1912. An elementary course in metor-
ology is offered to students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 183
VI.
RESEARCH WORK. Courses are offered in Theory
of Heat, Theory of Electricity and Magnetism, Optics,
the Constitution of Matter, Conduction of Electricity
by Gases, Theory of Sound, Hertzian Waves. Calculus
is required to take up any of these topics.
[Two to five hours a week for one term.]
PHYSIOLOGY
I.
(a) This course comprises lectures, recitations and
demonstrations based upon Thornton’s Text-book of
Human Physiology. A liberal supply of models, charts
and manikins are at hand to facilitate all demonstra-
. tions required.
(&) Laboratory work consisting of a selected number
of experiments so arranged as to give the student a fair
insight into modern experimental physiology.
(c) A limited number of microscopical preparations
are required to be made by each student, and he must
examine a set of typical preparations in order to acquire
a fair knowledge of the microscopical structure of the
tissues and organs of the human body.	,
(J) During the course special lectures will be given
upon personal, domestic and municipal hygiene.
[Four recitations and one laboratory period
for one term.] '
N. B.—Students of Pharmacy must take sections (a)
and (d) and may select either (b) or (c).
-	IL
(d) This course comprises a complete study of human
physiology such as is required of students of medicine.
The lectures, recitations and demonstrations are based
184
BULLETIN OF THE
upon Kirk's Handbook of Physiology and Hall's Text-
book of Physiology. The student will have free access
to a copy of The American Text-book of Physiology
for special reference.
(b) Laboratory work in experimental physiology.
The manual used is Hall's Experimental Physiology,
but the student will have free access to a number of
other similar works.
[Four recitation hours and two laboratory
periods for two terms.]
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
I.
THE ELEMENTS OF ECONOMICS. A general
survey of the subject based upon the study and dis-
cussion of Seager’s Introduction to Economics. The
first part of this course deals with the fundamental
principles of the abstract theory of economics. The
second portion of the work has to do with the applica-
tion and exemplification of these principles. In this
connection attention is paid to the subject of money,
credit and banking, the labor movement, monopolies,
the railroad problem, socialism, taxation and plans of
economic reform. Supplementary readings and re-
ports on current discussions of these questions form an
important part of the work in this course.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IL*
THE HISTORY OF ECONOMIC THOUGHT.
The work in this course is based on Haney's History
of Economic Thought. After a resume of the economic
ideas of ancient Greece and Rome and the medieval
period the work is divided into three sections; the first
* Not given 1914-15
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 185
dealing with the fragmentary notions preceding Adam
Smith and including the latter’s work and influence;
the second period deals with the classical school of
economists, particular attention being paid to the theo-
ries of Malthus, Mill and Ricardo—the dependence of
some of the modern movements on their theories is also
shown; the third has to do with the latter day economists.
Political Science I. is a prerequisite for Course II.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III	.*
MONEY, CREDIT AND BANKING. This course
first outlines the historical aspect of money and of
banking and then takes up the problems touching on
these subjects. Special attention is paid to the mone-
tary experiences of the United States and the present
reforms under consideration. The text-book used is
Money and Banking, White.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV	.
PUBLIC FINANCE. This course begins with a
brief history of the different financial systems. The
different kinds of government expenditure are dis-
cussed, also the sources of government income. The
different methods of taxation and the proposed reforms
in these methods are studied. Special attention is
paid to problems in the United States. The text-book
used is Introduction to Public Finance by C. C. Plehn.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
' V.
DISTRIBUTION. Lectures, readings and discus-
sions on the questions of wages, rent, interest and
profits, and the problems resulting from present notions
in regard to these matters. . The text-book used is
* Not given in 1914-T5.
186
BULLETIN OF THE
The Distribution of Wealth by Carver, supplemented
by readings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VI.
THE ELEMENTS OF ECONOMICS. A short
course for advanced students. Text, Economics, Briefer
Course by Seager.
POLITICS
VII.
THE ELEMENTS OF POLITICS. General survey.
Text, First Principles in Politics, Lilly.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
AMERICAN GOVERNMENT AND POLITICS.
Text, American Government and Politics, Beard.
[Four hoeurs a week for one term.]
IX.
JURISPRUDENCE. A course covering (a). the
outlines of the Science of Law. (&) The elements of
International Law. (c) Lectures on selected topics of
Roman and Canon Law. Lectures, readings, and
examinations on required texts.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
SOCIOLOGY
THE ELEMENTS OF SOCIOLOGY. Text, Sociol-
ogy and Modern Social Problems, Ellwood.
A brief survey of elementary principles. The family
in its sociological aspects, its origin, forms, historical
development and the two great problems, divorce and
race suicide. The Negro Problem, Crime, Socialism in
the Light of Sociology.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 187
XI.
Labor Problems and Socialism. Woman and Child
Labor, Immigration, The Sweating System, Poverty
and Unemployment are among the problems studied.
Labor Unionism, Strikes and Arbitration, Co-opera-
tion, Socialism, Syndicalism and Labor Legislation are
among the remedial movements studied.
Text,-Labor Problems, Adams and Summer.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT IN THE UNITED
STATES. The purpose of this course is to bring before
the student the leading economic forces that have
brought about our present commercial and industrial
conditions. Special attention will be paid the financial
history of the United States and to the physiographic
features of the country that have had to do with
economic development.
The study of Economic History will be largely
supplemented by the course in Money and Banking
and the treatment of economic problems in History
III.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
RAILWAY TRANSPORTATION. An elementary
survey of the whole field of railway transportation.
Origin and growth, social and economic influence of
the railway; theories of rate making; competition and
combination; public regulation; the work of the Inter-
state Commerce Commission; public regulation or pub-
lic ownership.
[Four Fours a week for one term.]
188
BULLETIN OF THE
XIV.
INDUSTRIAL ORGANIZATION AND COM-
BINATION. A general survey of the development of
the principal forms of business organization; the single
entrepeneur system, the partnership, the joint stock
company, the corporation; social and private advant-
ages and disadvantages of each form. Causes leading
to the rise and development of the trusts; the various
forms of combination; an examination of the remedies
proposed for the solution of the trust problem. Text,
Business Organization and Combination, Haney.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XV.
BUSINESS LAW. This course is primarily for
students of Commerce. It deals briefly with contracts,
negotiable instruments, sales, agency, partnership, pro-
perty, corporations, bailments and carriers, suretyship
and guaranty. It is an elementary course in law deal-
ing particularly with those subjects that are more
closely related to business and business administration.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
GRADUATE WORK IN POLITICAL ECONOMY.
Advanced courses in economics, politics and sociology
are provided for graduate students who wish to receive
the degree of Master or Doctor.
ACCOUNTING
Students will have an opportunity to take up work
in elementary bookkeeping, typewriting, phonography,
commercial arithmetic and all elementary commercial
subjects, but no credit toward a degree will be allowed
for these subjects.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 189
I.
ELEMENTARY ACCOUNTING. The principles
underlying accounting in its simplest forms as connected
with bookkeeping and is a development of the same.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
II.
INTERMEDIATE ACCOUNTING. Continuation
of Course I.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
ADVANCED ACCOUNTING. The theory of ac-
counting and auditing. Subject of general accounting
completed.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
SPECIAL FORMS OF ACCOUNTING. Corpora-
tion; cost accounting; institutional accounting; special
problems.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLISH
I.
* POLISH LANGUAGE AND LITERATURE. Gram-
' mar (Matecki’s Part I.) Etymology. Exercises in
spelling and reading.
Grammar, Part II. Syntax. Exercises in Compo-
sition. Short essays.
II.
RHETORIC. (Galle’s Text-book). Study of Essays
in Models. (Krasnouuilski’s Handbook).
III.
LITERATURE. The History of Polish Literature.
190
BULLETIN OF THE
Part I. From the beginning to the era of Adam Mic-
kiewicz. (Handbook'. Tarnowski-Prochnicki').
IV.
LITERATURE. The History of Polish Literature.
Part II. From Adam Mickiewicz to the present time.
(Handbook: Tarnowski-Prochnicki). Essays.
ROMANCE LANGUAGES
These courses include the study of French, Spanish,
Italian, Portuguese, Old French, Provencal.
The principal aim is to impart an accurate reading
knowledge of literary works written in these languages.
In the study, however, of Old French and Provencal,
special attention will be paid to philology.
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the in-
flection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Reading of three of the following
works: La Tache de Petit Pierre, Mariet; Un Cas de
Conscience, Gervais; La Main Malheureuse, Guerber;
Sans Famille, Malot; Readings from French History,
Super.'
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Advanced grammar with composition, study of
idioms, memorizing, Dictations and conversations, on
practical topics, and careful reading of five of the
following works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d'un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 191
Choisies, La Fontaine', Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere',
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand', La Question d'Argent, Dumas', Standard
French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and general
view of French literature; besides a translation and
criticism of the best writers, such as -,Causeries du
Lundi, Ste., Beuve', On Rend VArgent, Coppee', Her-
nani, Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine', Athalie, Racine’,
L'Avare, Moliere', Mlle, de la Seigliere, Sandeau', Les
Origines de la France Contemporaine, Taine\ Expedition
de Bonaparte enEgypte, Thier', Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie,
Montalembert', Historic de la Litterature Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week fro two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
SPANISH
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales from Trueba, Fernon Caballero
Perez Escritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego,
and Irate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Spanish prose and poetry of the eighteenth and
nineteenth centuries, with composition and the history
of the literature of the period.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
192	BULLETIN OF THE
©
III.
Literature of the sixteenth and seventeenth centuries;
Cervantes, Calderon, Lope de Vega. History of the
literature of the period, with essays in Spanish.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
IV.
Early Spanish. El Poema del Cid. History of the
. literature of the fifteenth century.
ITALIAN
A two years’ course. The chief work of the courses
is a critical study of Dante's Divina Commedia. Read-
ing from Tasso, Ariosto's Satires and Manzoni.
[Four hours a week for four terms.]
PORTUGUESE
I.
Portuguese Conversation Grammar, Wall. Readings:
Perfil do marquez de Pombal, Camillo Castello Branco;
Novelhas Historicas, Pinheiro Chagas', Lendas e Nar-
rativas, Herctdano-, Campo de flores, Joao de Deus.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
II.
Sermoes, Padre Antonio Vieira. Os Lusiadas, Camoes.
History of Portuguese literature.
OLD FRENCH
Special attention will be- paid to the laws under-
lying the formation of the French language from the
popular Latin. For this purpose a work like Bracket's
Grammaire Historique will be studied. It is from
this point of view that the old French authors will
be read, especially La Chanson de Roland.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 193
PROVENCAL
Language and literature, with readings from the
works of the Troubadours.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
ZOOLOGY
. ♦
This course comprises:
(a)	Lectures, recitations and demonstrations based
upon Hegner's College Zoology.
(b)	Lectures, readings and recitations based upon '
Parker's Elementary Course in Biology.
(c)	Laboratory work on Invertebrata as outlined
in Pratt's Invertebrate Zoology, and Parker's Biology.
(J) Mammalian Osteology including the study of
one or two types of skeletons belonging to each order
of mammalia. The work is outlined in Kirsch's Ele-
mentary Course in Mammalian Osteology.
[Two recitation hours and three laboratory periods for
first term; three recitation hours and three
laboratory periods for the second term.]
IL
This course comprises:
(a)	Recitations, lectures, and demonstrations based
upon Hertwig's Manual of Zoology.
(b)	Laboratory work upon some Invertebrate in
order to complete and supplement the work under
(c)	in Course I.
194	BULLETIN OF THE
(c)	Dissection and laboratory work upon one or two
types in each of the classes of Vertebrate, viz.: fish,
frogs, newt, turtle, snake, mammal; the text-book used
is Pratt's Vertebrate Zoology.
(d)	A more extended study of mammalia with refer-
ence to the cat as outlined in Davison's Mammalian
Anatomy.
(e)	An outline of comparative Embryology of ani-
mals. Text-book, Packard and Foster and Balfour.
Preparatory School
196	BULLETIN OF THE
Instructors in the Preparatory School
REV. JOHN B. SCHEIER, C. S. C.,
Greek and Latin.
REV. MICHAEL QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
Mathematics and English.
REV. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
REV. MICHAEL OSWALD, C. S. C.,
German.
REV. JULIUS A. NIEULWAND, C. S. C.,
Science.
REV. CORNELIUS HAGERTY, C. S. C.,
Latin.
REV. CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. THOMAS IRVING, C. S. C.,
Physics.
REV. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
French.
REV. GEORGE McNAMARA, C. S. C.,
English and Mathematics.
197
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
REV. THOMAS BURKE, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. JOHN McGINN, C. S. C.,
English.
REV. HUGH McCAULEY, C. S. C.,
Greek and Latin.
REV. ERNEST DAVIS, C. S. C.,
Chemistry.
REV. JOHN RYAN, C. S. C„
History.
REV. ALPHONSE JUST, C. S. C.,
Latin and Music.
REV. JAMES QUINLAN, C. S. C.,
Christian Doctrine.
BRO. PHILIP NERI, C. S. C.,
Penmanship.
BRO. CYPRIAN, C. S. C.,
Bookkeeping, Phonography and Typewriting.
BRO. MARCELLINUS, C. S. C.,
English.
FRANCIS XAVIER ACKERMAN, M. S.,
Drawing.
JAMES HINES, Ph. B.,
History and Mathematics.

198
BULLETIN OF THE
CHARLEMAGNE KOEHLER, A. M.,
Elocution] German.
FRANCIS A. DERRICK, A. B.,
Music.
THOMAS STEINER, C. E.,
Mathematics.
JOHN LORIMER WORDEN, B. S.,
Drawing and Science.
EDWARD CLEARY, Litt. B.,
Civics and Commercial Law.
CARL SAUTER,
Piano.
JAMES RIDDLE, A. M.,
Mathematics.
REGIDIUS M. KACZMAREK, A. B., M. S.,
Polish.
GEORGE W. ALBERTSON, Litt. B.,
Mathematics.
FELIX JOSE ALONZO, M. E., .
Spanish.
BENEDETTO PASQUINI, D. C. L.,
Italian.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 199
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The University maintains a fully equipped Pre-
paratory School under the same general government
as the Colleges, but having its own special corps of
instructors. The schedules of studiestare arranged to
meet the need of thorough preparation for collegiate
work, and embrace courses which, while giving as wide
an education as can be obtained in the very best High
Schools, prepare students directly for the group of
studies they may select when entering the Freshman
year. Four different programs of instruction are offered
to students, each- containing such special’ courses as
directly meet the needs of the twenty college groups,
while all embrace common subjects which are indis-
pensably necessary in acquiring a failry liberal education.
The, period of instruction covers four years. .
The equipment and facilities for study in the Pre-
paratory School are most complete. The laboratories
are extensive aiid fully supplied with the latest im-
proved appliances. The classes pursuing any subject
are divided into sections, each containing a limited
number of students. The sections are purposely limited
in order that each student may receive close attention
from the instructor in every recitation and laboratory
period.
Examinations for admission, are held at the opening
of the School in September and embrace the subjects
completed in the highest grade in the Grammar School.
The expense for tuition, board, laundry, etc., will be
found on pages 36, 37 and 38. The following fees are
special to the Preparatory School:
LABORATORY FEES
Science C. & D.—Elementary Botany and Zoology, each... .$2.50
Science E.—Elementary Chemistry.............. 5.00
Science F.—Elementary Physics................ 5.00
200
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE DEPART-
MENT OF CLASSICS IN THE COLLEGE
OF ARTS AND LETTERS
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
Greek	5	A	Greek	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	5	B	History	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
Greek	5	B	Greek	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
Greek	5	C	Greek	5	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
Science	5	E or F	Science	5	E or F
French or			French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A

UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 201
Studies Preparatory for the Departments of Let-
ters, History and Economics, and Jour-
nalism in the College of Arts and Letters
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
Latin	5	A ’	Latin	5	A
English	5	A	English	5	A
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	D
SECOND YEAR
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
French or			French or		
German	5	A	German	5	A
English	5	B	English	5	B
History	5	B	History	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
THIRD YEAR
Latin	5	C	Latin	5	C
French or			French or		
German	5	B	German	5	B
English	5	C	English	5	C
History	5	A	History	5	A
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
FOURTH YEAR
Latin	5	D	Latin	5	D
French or			French or		
German	4	C	German	4	C
English	5	D	English	5	D
Science	5	E or F	Science	5	E or F
Elective	5		Elective	5	
202
BULLETIN OF THE
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGE
OF SCIENCE
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
Latin	5	A	Latin	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
Latin	5	B	Latin	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
History	5	B	History	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
History	5	A	History	5	A
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
German	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	1 F	Science	5	F
Drawing	5	A	Drawing	5	B
Mathematics	5	F	Elective	5	
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 203
STUDIES PREPARATORY FOR THE COLLEGES
OF ENGINEERING AND ARCHITECTURE
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	A
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	B
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	D
*German	5	A	German	5	A
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5	D	Mathematics	5	D
History	5	B	History	5	B
Science	5	B	Science	5	C
German	5	B	German	5	B
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Mathematics	5	C	Mathematics	5	E
Science	5	E	Science	5	E
German	5	C	German	5	C
History	5	A	History	5	A
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Mathematics	5	F	Drawing	5	B
Drawing	5	A	Science	5	F
Science	5	F	Elective	10	
Elective	5				
* French or Spanish may be substituted for German.
204
BULLETIN OF THE
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
CHRISTIAN DOCTRINE
This is a four year course—Moral, Dogma, Liturgy,
Church History. Portions of the Scriptures are given
each year.
CIVIL GOVERNMENT
A.
This is a study of the science of government in con-
nection with American institutions, and is intended
to give the student some knowledge of the general
principles of government and of the American Con-
stitution. The subject begins by defining government;
then is considered the object and necessity of govern-
ment; origin of civil society; the principle of suffrage;
different forms of government defined and compared;
theories of representation. These topics necessarily
are treated briefly, as the principal part of the course
consists of a study of the Colonial government, the
Articles of Confederation and their defects, the for-
mation of the Constitution and its adoption. The
study further comprises a critical analysis of each
article and section of the American Constitution, thus
enabling the student to acquire a clear conception
of the division of powers of the National Government
and the duties and responsibilities of each department.
Text-book, Government by State and Nation, James
and Sanford.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
DRAWING
A.
This work is based on the rudiments of drawing and
consists of the training necessary for the band and
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 205
*
the eye. Sketching is also done from simple objects
of various forms.
[Five hgurs a week for one term.]
B.
Courses in Lettering, Geometrical Drawing and
Elementary Projections in pencil and in pen and ink,
preparatory to„Drawing I. in the Engineering Programs.
A sufficient number of plates must be made by each
student to prove his fitness for Drawing I.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
ENGLISH
A.
(a)	Review of Grammar. General Rhetoric. Daily
exercises in correct English, and weekly exercises in
prose composition.
(b)	Elements of Versification. Verse-writing and
memory work in Poetry.
(c)	Readings: Irving’s Sketch Book; Stevenson’s
Treasure Island; Longfellow’s Evangeline; Cooper’s
Last of the Mohicans; Poe’s Tales; Hawthorne’s Great
Stone Face, The Birthmark and other stories; Palgrave’s
5 Golden Treasury; Hale’s The Man Without a Country;
Aesop’s Fables; the Merchant of Venice, Julius Caesar.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
(a) Special Rhetoric. American Literature: ex-
ercises in Correct English and theme work in the Prose
Forms.
(Z>) The Verse Forms. Theory, practice and memory
work.
(c) Readings: Blackmore’s Lorna Doone; Poe's
Poems; Lamb’s Essays of Elia; Scott’s Ivanhoe, The
Lady of the Lake; Coleridge’s The Ancient Mariner;
206
BULLETIN OF1THE
George Eliot’s Silas Marner; Longfellow’s The Court-
ship of Miles Standish] Macbeth, As You Like It. -
[Five hours a week for two terms.] -
L <	* ” 1
(a) History of English Literature. Written work
in prose and verse.
(5) Readings: Tennyson’s Gareth and Lynette, Lan-
celot and Elaine, The Passing of Arthur.', Washington’s
Farewell Address', Webster’s First Bunker Hill Oratim]
Carlyle’s Essay on Burns-, Chaucer’s Prologue', Bacon’s
Essays', Goldsmith’s Vicar of Wakefield] Thackeray’s
Henry Esmond] King Lear, The Tempest.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
(a) Review of Grammar and Rhetoric. Special
work in the literary types. Written work in prose
and verse.
(b} Memory work in poetry and prose.
(c) Readings: Tennyson’s Idylls of the King] Gate’s
Selections from Newman] Newman’s, The Dream of
Gerontius; Hamlet] A Midsummer Night's Dream] other
selections illustrative of the text-work given.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
FRENCH
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the in-
flection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and the common
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 207
idiomatic phrases. Frazer and Squair's Grammar,
Reading three of the following: La Tache du Petit
Pierre, Mairet; Un Cas de Conscience, Gervais; La
Main Malheur euse, Guerbert; Sans Famille, Malot;
Super's Readings from French History.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Advanced grammar and composition, study of
idioms, ^memorizing. Frazer and Squair's Grammar.
Dictations and conversations are added on practical
topics and careful translation made of five of the fol-
lowing works: Le Voyage de M. Perrichon, Labiche;
Roman d’un Jeune Homme Pauvre, Feuillet; Fables
choisies, La Fontaine; Le Medecin Malgre Lui, Moliere;
Le Cid, Corneille; Esther, Racine; Pages oubliees de
Chateaubriand; La Question d'Argent, Dumas; Stand-
ard French Authors, Guerlac.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
The study of this course is devoted chiefly to the
prose and poetry of the nineteenth century and in-
cludes composition, conversation, history and a general
view of French literature. Besides a reading and
criticism of the best writers, such as: Causeries du
Lundi, Ste. Beuve; On Rend V Argent, Coppee; Hemani,
Hugo; Meditations, Lamartine; Athalie, Racine; L’Avare,
Moliere; Mlle, de la Segliere, Sandeau; Les Origines,
de la France Contemporaine, Paine; Expedition de
Bonaparte en Egypte; Ste. Elizabeth de Hongrie, Mon-
talembert; Historic de la Litterature Francaise, Duval.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
N. B.—The works studied are not necessarily the
same every year.
208
BULLETIN OF THE
GREEK
First Greek Book. White.
EPITOME OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Etymology. Hadley and Allen.
XENOPHON. Anabasis, Books I. and II. Harper
and Wallace.
SECOND GREEK EXERCISE BOOK. Heard.
EPITOME OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, con-
tinued. Stoffel.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar. Syntax. Hadley and Allen.
XENOPHON. Anabasis, Books HI. and IV. Har-
per and Wallace.
SECOND GREEK EXERCISE BOOK, completed.
Heard.
EPITOME OF THE NEW TESTAMENT, com-
pleted. Stoffel.
HOMER, Iliad, Books I.-VI. Seymour.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
GERMAN
A.
Grammar, Bacon. Reading of simple prose, plays,
poems; translation of English exercises into German.
Reading of short stories and selections from more
difficult prose.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar, Bacon. Translation into German of
narrative prose and selections from history.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 209
Herman and Dorothea, Goethe', Lichtenstein, Hauff.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
Grammar, Bacon. Sight reading of plays, poems,
and prose writings. Translation of selections from
history and literature; original essays.
Minna von Barnhelm, Lessing', best known poems,
Heine', Correspondence, Schiller-Goethe.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
HISTORY
A.
ANCIENT HISTORY. Myers' Ancient History. \
The Eastern Nations. The History of Greece and of
the Empire of Alexander. The Story of Rome. The
Establishment of the Empire, and the rise of Chris-
tianity. The Roman-German, or Transition Age.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
MEDIEVAL HISTORY AND MODERN HIS
TORY. Text-book, Myers. The Barbarians and their
Kingdoms. Mohammedanism and the Saracen Caliphs.
The holy Roman Empire. The Great Schism and the
rise of the Nations of Modern Europe. The Renaiss-
ance. The Age of Discovery. The Protestant Refor-
mation. The Power of Spain and Germany. The Age
of Louis XVI., and the rise of Russia. The Spanish
and Austrian Successions. The Empire of England.
The American Revolution. The French Revolution
and the Wars of Napoleon. The Revolutions and
Spirit of Nationality. The Formation of Germany
and Italy.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
o
210	BULLETIN OF THE
AMERICAN HISTORY. A brief outline of the
more important periods dealing with the beginning,
growth and final formation of the republic; the prin-
cipal causes leading to this formation; essential topics
in the history of the country.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
LATIN
A.	'
First'Year Latin, Collar and Daniel. 1
Selections from the Viri Romae. Rolfe.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
B.
Grammar. Etymology. Bennett. '■
Caesar. Gallic War, Books L-IV. Greenotigh.
Nepos. Selected Lives. Roberts. [Elective.]
Latin Composition (Part L). D’Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
C.
p
Grammar. Syntax, Bennett.
CICERO. Orations against Catiline. Kelsey.
OVID. Selections. Kelsey.
SALLUST. Catiline, Nall. [Elective.]
Latin Composition (Part IL). D'Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
D.
Grammar. Review. Bennett.
CICERO. Selected Orations and Letters. Kelsey.
VERGIL. Aeneid, Books I.-VI., Frieze.
Latin Composition (Part III.). D'Ooge.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 211
MATHEMATICS
A.
ALGEBRA. This course for beginners in Algebra
. includes a study of the primary fundamental principles
necessary to the courses which follow. The subjects
dwelt upon in particular are factoring, highest common
factor and least common multiple, which are afterward
applied in their relation to fractions and the reduction
of complex fractions. In as far as possible, concrete
examples of their applications to kindred scientific
subjects are applied by the teacher. Text-book', Went-
worth's School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.
ALGEBRA. In this course the study of equations
is begun and continued through equations of the first
degree. Fractional equations, systems of simultaneous
equations, involutions, radicals and exponents com-
plete the course, which is supplemented whenever
possible with problems of practical application. Text-
book, Wentworth's School Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
ALGEBRA. This course begins with quadratic
equations, pure and unaffected, followed by systems of
simultaneous quadratic equations and those forms
of radical equations of higher degree which may be
solved-, by quadratic methods. Ratio and proportion,
indeterminate equations, surds, imaginaries, inequal-
ities, the progressions and the binomial theorem finish
the work in this course. As in the preceding courses,
special stress is placed upon the application of the
theory to such examples as will show its application
212
BULLETIN OF THE
to elementary scientific subjects. Text-book, Went-
worth's College Algebra.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
GEOMETRY. This subject is completed as far as
the end of plane geometry and includes a study of the
theorems with proofs of exercises and original propo-
sitions. The habit of independent thinking is cul-
tivated to some extent by the solution of special prob-
lems of a concrete nature intended to exhibit the rela-
tion of the process studied to practical examples. Text-
book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
E.
GEOMETRY. The study of solid geometry is taken
up in this term, the course being an extension of that
of the preceding course. Planes, solid angles, poly-
hedrons, the cylinder, cone and sphere are all studied
in detail and the solution of original exercises and
propositions of application is made a feature of the
course. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
F.
TRIGONOMETRY. A half year is given to this
subject which includes both plane and spherical trig-
onometry. The work done is the equivalent of that in
most of the elementary text-books. Special attention
is given to goniometry on account of its application to
calculus, and examples of a concrete nature are abund-
antly supplied. Text-book, Wentworth.
[Five hours a week for one term.]	-
i
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 213
SCIENCE
A.
PHYSICAL GEOGRAPHY. An introductory and
elementary study of the earth and its environments.
The student will be led into a closer sympathy with
the world about him. The various types of plant and
animal life, together with topographical and climatic
conditions will be considered. Text-book, Tarr.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
B.	'
PHYSIOLOGY. Lectures, recitations and demon-
strations with the stereopticon. The study of the hu-
man skeleton including the physiology and hygiene of
the bones. The action, relation, structure and hygiene
of muscles. The digestive, circulatory and excretory
systems and structure of the nervous system and
simple experiments on the same. Text-book, Martin's
Human Body.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
C.
BOTANY. This course is designed for beginners in
this subject; it includes a study of the higher plants
with reference to structure of root, stem, leaf, flower
and seed. An introduction to the lower forms of plant
life and their classification is also given. Text-book,
Bastin's Elements of Botany.	.
[Five hours a week for one term.]
D.
ZOOLOGY. This course includes an introduction to
the subject with studies of representative forms and
their classification in the different groups of the animal
kingdom. The subject is taught by recitations and
laboratory work. Text-book, Chapin and Rettger. v
[Five hours a week for one term.]
214	BULLETIN OF THE
E.
(a) CHEMISTRY. An introductory course of
experimental lectures on familiar subjects such as
water, the air and its constituents, common salt, etc.,
leading up to discussions of the more important ele-
ments and their properties, and the fundamental laws
and phenomena of chemistry. Text-book, Maguire's
Elements of Chemistry.
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
fb) EXPERIMENTAL CHEMISTRY. A labora-
tory course to accompany Course (a). A series of exer-
cises to be performed by each student, and having as
their main object tne cultivation of the student’s
powers of observation and faculty of inductive reason-
ing. These exercises comprise a study of the principal
metallic elements, including their preparation, proper-
ties and more familiar compounds. The directions for
each experiment are made as brief as possible; the
observation of facts and the drawings of correct con-
clusions therefrom being left, so far as the nature of
the experiment will permit, to the student.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
F.
(a) PHYSICS. Introduction in elementary physics
is given by lectures and recitations in which the general
laws of mechanics, heat, acoustics, optics, electricity
and magnetism are presented. The course is intended
to meet the needs of those who desire a general knowl-
edge of the subject, as well as to lay the foundation
for advanced work. Particular attention is paid to
the correct statement of principles so that in bis ad-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 215
vanced work'the student will have nothing to unlearn
or relearn. Text-book, Carhart and Chute.	v
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
(&) LABORATORY WORK of this course consists
of a series of 60 experiments which verify and apply
practically the fundamental principles of physics. The.
student also receives instruction in the use and careful
handling of apparatus, accurate observation and correct
deduction of results. Neat and concise reports of all
experiments are kept by each student and form the
basis for the grades in this work.
[Two hours (four hours of actual work) each
week for one year.]
THE COMMERCIAL HIGH SCHOOL
The Commercial School is designed to fuse with the
ordinary High School or preparatory program of studies,
a special preparation for the processes of modern com-
mercial life. Accordingly, the commercial program
consists of a selection of the more important subjects
in the High School curriculum to which are added the
classes and experimental facilities found in a completed
and up-to-date commercial college.
Owing to conditions specially favorable to study,
Notre Dame claims to give the students of this school
a more complete business training than can be obtained
in any purely commercial college. The authorities
require that students taking this program shall have
completed two years of a regular High School or its
equivalent. Special arrangements, however, will be
made for young men who have no High Sctiool training,
but who may have had practical business or office
experience. Such students may follow the courses of
216
BULLETIN OF THE
this program of studies but will not be considered can-
didates for degrees. A certificate stating the field
covered by their studies will, however, be presented
to them. Graduates of High Schools or equivalent
preparatory schools will ordinarily be able to complete
the work of this program in one year.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 217
COMMERCIAL PROGRAM*
a
FIRST YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs. a Wk.	Course
English	5	A	English	5	
Mathematics	5	A	Mathematics	5	
History	5	C	Civil Governm’t	5	A
German	5	A	German	5	A
Science	5	A	Science	5	B
SECOND YEAR
English	5	B	English	5	B
Mathematics	5"	D	Mathematics	5 .	D
History	5	B	History	5	B
Germai^	5	B	German	5	B
Science	5	E	. Science	5	E
a
THIRD YEAR
English	5	C	English	5	C
Bookkeeping	5	A	Bookkeeping	5	A
Phonography	5	A	Phonography	5	A
Arithmetic	5	A	Arithmetic	5	B
Typewriting	5	A	Typewriting	5	A
Penmanship	2		Penmanship	2	

a
FOURTH YEAR
English	5	D	English	5	D
Bookkeeping	5	B	Bookkeeping	8	C
Phonography	5	B	Phonography	5	B
Com. Law	5	A	Ec. of Business		
Typewriting	3	B	Typewriting	3	A
■5
*First and second year or equivalent required for entrance
on commercial work.
Students who do not take Phonography will continue their
mathematics or language in the third year and take up Physics
in the fourth year.
218
BULLETIN OF THE
PROGRAM OF INSTRUCTION
ARITHMETIC
A.	PERCENTAGE; ratio and proportion, as far as
involution and evolution.
B.	PERCENTAGE; ratio and proportion (reviewed);
involution and evolution; arithmetical and geometrical
series; higher percentage; mensuration; arithmetical
analysis.
BOOKKEEPING
A.	Preparatory instruction and definitions; in-
itiatory sets of Double Entry; retailing by Double
Entry; special practice in writing business papers
and business forms. Single Entry; changing Single tb
Double Entry.
B.	RETAILING; wholesaling; shipping and com-
mission; jobbing; manufacturing; instalment and state
agencies; joint stock companies; banking.
C.	BUSINESS PRACTICE AND OFFICE WORK.
Introducing Loose Leaf Accounting, Card Ledger
Accounting, Loose Leaf and Sales Book, and the Vou-
cher System of Bookkeeping and Business English.
COMMERCIAL LAW
A. Text-book, Huff cut1 s Elements of Business Laws.
ECONOMICS OF BUSINESS
A.	Text and assigned topics.
* ’ PHONOGRAPHY
A. Isaac Pitman’s Short Course in Phonography.
B.	SPEED CLASS.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
219
TYPEWRITING
A.	The Van Sant System of Touch Typewriting.
B.	SPEED CLASS. Mimeograph and Hektograph
work.
GRAMMAR SCHOOL WORK
The courses of the Preparatory School outlined
above are equivalent to those of a High School. There
is also a Junior Preparatory Department in which
are taught all the branches of a Grammar School,—
the students having every opportunity for preparing
themselves as rapidly as possible for High School work.
220
BULLETIN OF THE
THE SCHOOL FOR MINIMS
For the care and training of boys under the age
of thirteen years, there has been established a primary
school to which the most scrupulous attention has
always been paid by the authorities of the Univer-
sity—it is known as St. Edward’s Hall.
Thorough and comprehensive instruction in all the
elementary branches of an English education is here
imparted, together with a rudimentary knowledge of
Latin, French, German and Algebra. Vocal Music and
Drawing involve no extra charge. The pupils of this
department are taught by Sisters of the Holy Cross.
DISCIPLINE
. The following is the order of the day: Rising at
6:30 a. m., toilet, etc., seven, breakfast, after which
there is a short time given to exercise on the campus;
eight, study; half-past nine, luncheon; ten, classes
and study; a quarter to twelve, toilet; twelve, dinner,
followed by recreation; half-past one, classes and study;
three, recreation and luncheon; half-past four, classes
and study; a quarter to six, toilet; six, supper and
recreation; half-past eight, retiring. From this it
may be seen that while the Minims devote almost
seven hours a day to study, they are never more than
two hours in succession in the class-room. The rec-
reation and exercise in the fresh air after each period
of study, unbend the mind and prepare the boys to
return to their classes refreshed and ready to work.
The Minims are always under supervision during
the hours of recreation as well as in the class-room
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 221
and the study-hall. The presence, however, of the
prefect is far from being a restraint on the amusement
of the boys; for while it is the duty of the prefects
to insist that their young charges shall always keep
within the limits of the strictest propriety, they at
the same time take part in all sports, organize games,
and do everything in their power to foster -the love
for exercise. The playground is a broad, level, eight-
acre field, well supplied with turning poles, swings,
ladders, rings, parallel bars, and all other necessary
gymnastic apparatus. That the boys make good use
of them can be seen from their healthy, happy
appearance, which invariably attracts the notice of
visitors. Connected with the playground is a brick
play-hall, one-hundred and sixty feet long and heated
by steam. In this hall the boys play in rainy or cold
weather.
The Sisters preside at the toilet; they clean and
mend the clothing; see to all the needs and to the
comfort and convenience of the Minims. Baths are
taken every few days. Underclothing is changed
regularly. Great care is taken that the boys be neatly
dressed, and that the clothing be suitable for the season.
SOCIETIES
There are two societies in the Minim Department,
that of the Guardian Angels of the Sanctuary, which
has for its object to supply servers for the Chapel
services, and the Sorin Association, which has been
established with a view to give the pupils a start, as
early as possible, in elocution. The society is presided
over by one of the professors, who finds it a pleasant
duty to draw out the talent of these interesting young >
orators. Meetings are held once a week, after school
hours. These meetings are a source of pleasure as well
222
BULLETIN OF THE
as of profit. The members prepare original compositions,
deliver declamations, are trained to debate, etc. Only
the best behaved and more advanced in studies are
admitted to membership. To encourage this young
literary society, a gold medal for elocution is annually
awarded at Commencement to the most deserving
member.
GENERAL REMARKS
The discipline to which the Minims are subjected
is much milder than that which is suited to members
more advanced in age. Recourse is scarcely ever had
to punishment. Those in charge endeavor to govern
by kindness and gentleness, and by appealing to the
boys’ sense of honor.
There are gold medals awarded at the end of two
full years to those whose deportment has been un-
exceptionable during that period. As this fact is made
known to the Minim immediately after his entrance, he
generally endeavors to shape his conduct with a view
to receiving an Honor. The greatest care is taken to
form their young hearts to habits of virtue, and to
inculcate the practice of refined manners. Every effort
is made to foster respect and affection for parents, to
whom they are expected to write at least once a week.
Not the least of the advantages enjoyed. by the
Minims is their complete separation from the older
students. A commodious building, known as St.
Edward’s Hall, affording ample accommodations for
over one hundred pupils, is devoted to their use. It is
four stories in height, one-hundred and fifty feet long,
and forty-five feet wide, heated by steam, supplied
throughout with electric light, and provided with hot
and cold water. The ceiling in the study-hall, class-
rooms and sleeping apartments is fifteen feet high. The
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 223
windows are large and numerous, affording abundant
light and ventilation. The study-hall commands a
charming view from each end of its eleven large windows.
It is tastefully decorated with statuary, pictures, plants,
etc. Besides the pleasure the Minims derive from
studying in this bright, cheerful hall, their tastes are
cultured by coming into contact with objects so refining.
Fronting the building is a handsome park, which,
with its fountains, rare trees and flowers, adds not
a little to the beauty of St. Edward’s Hall,’' as well
as to the happiness of its pupils.	.
These remarks, which have been made to satisfy
parents and others who frequently write for more
detailed information, will show that, while the. Minims
have every advantage to aid them in acquiring a founda-
tion for future study, they have a home, where they
enjoy the same ease and freedom that they would
■ enjoy under the care of their mothers. For further
information regarding the School for Minims apply for
a special catalogue.
EXPENSES
For Students under Thirteen Years of Age
Matriculation Fee (first year only)................$ 10.00
Tuition, Board, Washing, Mending, Bed and Bedding,
etc., per school year.............................. 250.00
Payable in advance as follows:	•
First Payment,—On Entrance in September.
Matriculation...................~................... 10.00
Board and Tuition.................................. 150.00
Deposit on Book and Stationery Account............... 5.00
Gymnasium............................................ 2.50
Lecture and Concert Course Ticket.................... 1.00
Music optional. For rates see below.
Second payment.—On January 15.
Balance on Board and Tuition.......................$100.00

224	BULLETIN OF THE
The charge for lessons on piano, violin, guitar or
mandolin, and the use of the instrument, is fixed at $50.
Accounts are subject to sight draft, without notice,
if not paid within ten days after they have been rendered.
Each pupil requires six shirts or waists, four suits
of underwear, three night shirts, twelve pocket handker-
chiefs, six pairs of stockings, six towels, two hats or
caps, two pair of shoes, a pair of overshoes, three suits
of clothes, an overcoat, toilet set, blacking brush, soap,
and a hahd mirror. This direction concerning clothing
is a suggestion, not a regulation. Any of the above
supplies can be procured through the Students’ Office
at the University.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 225
MILITARY
During the summer vacation of 1910 the Secretary
of War appointed a retired officer of the United States
Army, Professor of Military Science and Tactics in ,
the University of Notre Dame.
The Military drill has for some years been compul-
sory in St. Edward’s Hall and in Carroll Hall. In the
other departments this exercise has been altogether
voluntary. It proved popular with the older students;
its value was instantly recognized and the success that
attended the work was extremely gratifying. '
Beginning with 1912-13 it has been made compulsory
three hours a week for all students except Seniors and
Juniors in the college courses. Other students seeking
exemption from the drill must make application to the
President. It is accredited as a class, and absence
from it is regarded as absence from class, involving
the usual demerits and other penalties.
The cost of a uniform with military negligee shirt
for warm weather is about fifteen dollars. Other military
equipment is furnished by the United States Govern-
ment.
The officers of the battalion for the past year 1912-13
were as follows:
CAPTAIN R. R. STOGSDALL, U. S. A., RETIRED,
Professor of Military Science and Tactics.
COLOR SERGEANT GEORGE A. CAMPBELL, U.
S. A. ,RETIRED,
Assistant Military Instructor.
REGIMENTAL STAFF
CAPTAIN and ADJUTANT
Dan Shouvlin
226	BULLETIN OF THE
COLONEL	Joseph M. Walsh
LIEUTENANT COLONEL	Daniel R. Shouvlin
MAJOR 1ST BATTALION	Clarence J. Derrick
MAJOR 2ND BATTALION Fred W. Gushurst
CAPTAIN and ADJUTANT	Arthur J. Hayes
CAPTAIN and COMMISSARY Victor E. Hillman
1ST BATTALION ADJUTANT Raymond Sullivan
2ND BATTALION ADJUTANT Donat J. Pepin
CHIEF MUSICIAN and BAND LEADER
Frank Derrick
CHIEF TRUMPETEER, LT.	Ignacio Quintanilla
COLOR SERGEANT	Edward F. Barrett
DRUM MAJOR	Carl Ording
Company A
CAPTAIN	Daniel Sullivan
1ST LIEUTENANT	George Schuster
2ND LIEUTENANT	Fred. Brower
Company B
CAPTAIN	Edward	Gushurst
1ST LIEUTENANT	Joseph	Costello
2ND LIEUTENANT	Carlos	Damiani
Company C
CAPTAIN	William Stack
1ST LIEUTENANT	Leon Gendron
2ND LIEUTENANT	John O’Donaghue
Company D
CAPTAIN	Bernard McQuade
1ST LIEUTENANT	Robert Byrnes
2ND LIEUTENANT	Alfred O. Morales
Company E
CAPTAIN	Francis O’Reilly
1ST LIEUTENANT	Harry Baujan
2ND LIEUTENANT	Francis Brooke
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 227
Company F
CAPTAIN	Martin Walter
1ST LIEUTENANT	Charles Somers
2ND LIEUTENANT	Edwin	Bott
Company G
CAPTAIN	Amos	Clay
1ST LIEUTENANT	Leo	Vogel
2ND LIEUTENANT	Austin McNichols
Possums (C. H.)
CAPTAIN	Vincent Mooney
1ST SERGEANT	Lawrence Mcllwee
Sorin Cadets
CAPTAIN	‘	John R. Railton
1ST LIEUTENANT	John A. McGrath
2ND LIEUTENANT	William O’Connell
228	BULLETIN OF THE
LIST OF STUDENTS
Enrolled During the Year 1913-14
Adkins, Francis Luce....................................Illinois
Adolphus, B............................................Wisconsin
Adrianson, Joseph Willibord............................Wisconsin
Ahern, William Henry.....................................Indiana
Alcocer, Alfonso Sinforiano...............................Mexico
Allen, William Louis..................................  Illinois
Allgier, Clarence Joseph................................Michigan
Anderson, Barrett John..................................Illinois
Anderson, Cyril Robert..................................Illinois
Andrew, John Timothy.....................................Montana
Ansberry, Edward Clarence..............................Canal	Zone
Antony, B................................................Indiana
Araujo, Leocadio.......................Brazil,	South America
Armstrong, Philip John.................................Illinois
Arriaga, Jose..........................................  Mexico
Austin, B...............................................Arizona
Bachman, Charles William..............................Illinois
Bacigalupo, Paul Cicala..............................Tennessee
Bader, Clarence Wagner................................ Indiana
Bailey, Edward Riley..................................Illinois
Baro, Federico............................................Cuba
Baro, Francisco...........................................Cuba
Baragrey, Wilford Joseph...............................Indiana
Barrett, Edward Francis.....•........................Minnesota
Barrett, Lawrence John.............................  Minnesota
Barry, George Francis.................................Illinois
Barry, Harold Perley...................................Florida
Barry, James E....................................Pennsylvania
Barry, Norman Christopher.............................Illinois
Bartel, Frank Octave.................................Minnesota
Bartholomew, Norman Cletus........................Pennsylvania
Basil, B.............................................Wisconsin
Baujan, Harry Clifford................................Illinois
Beaghan, John Francis.................................Illinois
Bearce, Herbert Potter................................Illinois
Beaudry, Harold Arthur................................Illinois
Becker, George Albert...............................  Nebraska
Becker, John Henry....................................Nebraska
Becker, Michael Stanley..............................Louisiana
Beckman, Edward Joseph....................................Ohio
Beh, Carleton Dietz.......................................Iowa
Benesh, Frank Vencil..................................Nebraska
Benitez, Enrique........................................Mexico
Benoist, Theodore.....................................Missouri
Benziger, Joseph Paul..................................New	York
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 229
Berchem, Alfred........................................Illinois
Berger, Alvin...........................................Indiana
Bergman, Arthur Joseph .................................Indiana
Bergman, Alfred Henry...................................Indiana
Bering, Wilson M.......................................Illinois
Berner, Leo Sebastian.....-.............................Indiana
Bernoudy, Alfred Charles...............................Illinois
Bible, Robert Goggen.................................New Mexico
Bielecki, Stanislaus Joseph.............................Indiana
Biggers, Clarence Ernest................................Georgia
Birder, Cecil Edward..............................North Dakota
Bjoin, Andreas Julius..................................Illinois
Blackman, Everett Augustus.............................Illinois
Blackwell, John Joseph..................................Indiana
Blake, Richard Vincent..............................Connecticut
Blount, Gerald Charles..................................Georgia
Bogaert, Alberto..................................San Domingo
Bohannon, Leo Verne........................................Ohio
Boland, James Isidore..................................Michigan
Boland, Joseph Leo...................................New Jersey
Boland, Frank Joseph..............................Massachusetts
Bosshard, Royal Henry.................................Illinois
Bott, Edwin Augustine.................................New	York
Bounds, Charles Edward................................Missouri
Boylan, James Philip...............................New York
Boylan, James Kenneth...................................Ohio
r Boylan, Philip Vernon.................................Ohio
Boyle, Francis Thomas................................Indiana
Boyle, John Thomas.................................Wisconsin
Bracho, Jose Fernando.................................Mexico
Bradbury, William Ethelbert.........................Illinois
Brady, John Curtin.................................New York
Branen, Francis William.............................Illinois
Braun, Richard Theodore............................Wisconsin
Breen, Charles McCausland...............................Ohio
Brennan, Raymond Patrick...........................New York
Britten, Joseph George............................Washington
Brooke, Francis Ambrose.............................Michigan
Bruno, B........................................Pennsylvania .
Brower, Frederick B......................................Ohio
Brown, George Erwin.................................Wisconsin
Brown, Robert Lynch.................................  Indiana
Brown, William Henry................................Wisconsin
Brown, Frank Aloysius................................Michigan
Browne, Augustus Albert...................................Texas
Browne, Robert Matthew....................................Texas
Brya, Edward Gunning...................................Illinois
Buraschi, Juan Pedro........................Peru,	South America
Brisson, Joseph Eldon...............................  .Michigan
Burk, Ernest Jacob....................................Indiana
Burke, Harold Peter...............................New York
Burke, John Clarence............................  Minnesota
230
BULLETIN OF THE
Burke, William Ignatius.....................................Indiana
Burnham, Harold Edward.........................................Iowa
Burns, Hugh Oscar...........................................Indiana
Burns, Russell Joseph......................................Illinois
Burns, Robert Michael......................................New	York
Burns, Steven Emmett........................................Indiana
Burtt, Millard Cyrill......................................Illinois
Bush, Hardy Joseph.....................................New Jersey
Butler, Eugene John........................................Illinois
Butler, James Dale.........................................Illinois
Butler, Thomas Francis.....................................Illinois
Byrider, George William........................................Ohio
Byrnes, Francis Lincoln................................New Jersey .
Byrnes, Robert Louis...........................................Iowa
Cahill, James Francis....................................Illinois
Cain, Lawrence Raymond....................................Vermont
Callaghan, John H............................................Ohio
Campbell, Francis Bartley.................................Montana
Campbell, John Bernard...................................Kentucky
Campion, James Richard..................................Wisconsin
Canning, Francis Roche.................................California
Cannon, Harold Clement...................................Michigan
Canty, William Sumner.....................................Indiana
Carey, Charles Maurice.....................................Kansas
Carey, Eugene Thomas.....................................Illinois
Carey, Joseph Thomas.......................................Kansas
Carleton, Edward Joseph...........................T.	.. .-New York
Carleton, Jonathan Treadway..............................Illinois
Carmody, Michael Francis................................Louisiana
Carmody, Arthur Roderick................................Louisiana
Carmody, Charles Moran...................................Michigan
Carr, Robert Cushman.....................................Illinois
Carroll, Hugh Ernest......................................Indiana
Carroll, William Michael.................................Illinois
Carroll, Leonard Martin..................................Missouri
Carroll, Stuart Henry................................... Missouri
Carroll, Eugene..........................................Illinois
Carroll, John Francis...................................Wisconsin
Carter, Robert Curtis................................... Missouri
Case, William Denning....................................Illinois
Casey, William John.....................................Wisconsin
Casey, Gerard Henry......................................Illinois
Cass, Richard Marion.....................................Illinois
Cassidy, Clifford Frederick...............................Indiana
Cassidy, John Edward.....................................Illinois
Castillo, Antonio Alvarez..................................Mexico
Castillo, Carlos..................................Central	America
Cavanaugh, Francis Remegius................................. Ohio
Cavanagh, Robert Pinkerton...............'...............New	York
Chemidlin, John Prince..................................Minnesota
Chemidlin, Michael Morgan. ....................... .Minnesota
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 231
Chemidlin, Louis Prince.....
Clarence, B.................
Clay, Amos Kendall..........
Clay, Odin Edward...........
Cleary, Harold Janies.......
Cleary, Lawrence John.......
Cleaver, William Edward....
Clements, Walter Louis......
Clements, Gerald Samuel. . . .
Clifford, Twoomey Michael.. .
Clynes, Dennis Joseph.......
Cofall, Stanley Bingham. . . .
Coffelt, Hugh Ragland.......
Coker, Wallace Earl.........
Colbert, Carter Neville.....
Collentine, Roy Thomas......
Collins, Richard Walsh......
Colly, Harold Emil..........
Conboy, John Philip.........
Condon, Thomas Robert........
Connelly, Charles Colton. . ..
Conner, John Edward..........
Conway, Richard Francis. . . .
Conway, Morrison Albert....
Cook, Charles Laurens........
Cook, William John...........
Corasao, Alberto.............
Corcoran, Charles George.. . .
Corcoran, John Bernard.......
Corrigan, Clifford John......
Corrigan, John Vincent.......
Costello, Joseph Patrick.....
Countiss, Frederick Napoleon
Coyle, Arthur James..........
Coyle, Matthew Aloysius. . . .
Coyne, George Leo............
Craven, Thomas Vincent. . . .
Creel, Juan Francis. . . .....
Creel, Luis Jesus.............
Cremer, Glynn Francis.........
Crilley, James Aloysius.......
Cronk, Eugene Duncan..........
Cummings, Keith Jones.........
Cummiskey, Frederick James
Curran, Thomas Henry..........
Curry, James Augustine.... G
Curry, Thomas Benedict........
Curtis, Daniel Carr..........
Cusack, William John..........
Cusick, Dwight Paul...........
Czaja, Chester John...........
Czarnecki, Edmund William..
.........Minnesota
..........Michigan
..............Ohio
.............Texas
..........Michigan
......Michigan
......Washington
......Kentucky
......Kentucky
......Indiana
......Massachusetts
......Ohio
......Illinois
......Texas
......Wisconsin
......Wisconsin
......Missouri
......Illinois
......Indiana
......Illinois
......Illinois
.....Michigan
.....Illinois
.Oregon
.............Illinois
....7.......Oregon
Peru, South America
.Illinois
.New York
.Illinois
.Illinois
.........Indiana
.Illinois
.........New York
.Wisconsin
.Illinois
........Louisiana
...........Mexico
...........Mexico
.........Wisconsin
......New York
......Missouri
......Wisconsin
......'. . . . Michigan
........Illinois
........Connecticut
........Connecticut
........Illinois
........Iowa
........Ohio....AW
232
BULLETIN OF THE
Daley, Richard Daniel..............................New York
Daly, Robert Emmett.............................Pennsylvania
Damiani, Carlos R.........................Peru,	South America
Damian, B..............................................Indiana
Davis, Rex Maynard....................................Illinois
Davis, Archibald Patrick..................................Ohio
Dawson, Duane Doris...................................Missouri
Dee, Samuel Allerton..................................Illinois
Dehner, William Henry..................................Indiana
DeJan, Henry Samuel..................................Louisiana
Delana, George William................................Illinois
De la Cruz, Jose........................................Mexico
Dell Era, Joseph Louis..............................  Illinois
Delph, John Francis....................................Indiana
De Lugo, Angel Maria.................................Porto Rico
Devlin, James Sylvester...........................Pennsylvania
Derrick, Clarence Joseph..........................Pennsylvania
Dicks, Charles Benjamin.............................  Illinois
Diener, Charles Norman...............................Wisconsin
Dieter, Frederick Bernard............................Wisconsin
Di Lorenzo, Secondino.................................Illinois
Dixon, Charles Augustus................................Indiana
Dixon, Charles Goodrich...............................Illinois
Doherty, Patrick Henry................................Illinois
Dohn, Bernard Charles.................................Michigan
Dolan, Patrick Henry................................  Illinois
Donahue, George Damian.................................Indiana
Donahue, William Matthew...............................Indiana
Donnelly, Maurice Carroll..............................Indiana
Donelan, Francis Ward.....................................Iowa
Donohue, James Newton................................New York
Donovan, William Joseph...............................Michigan
Dorais, Charles Emil.................................Wisconsin
Dorsey, James William.................................Illinois
Dorwin, Oscar John...................................Wisconsin
Dougherty, Richard Robert............................Minnesota
Dowd, John Francis....................................Illinois
Dowding, Cloyd James.....................................Texas
Downey, Russell Hugh...................................Indiana
Downey, Timothy Edward.................................Montana
Downing, William Poyntelle............................Illinois
Driscoll, John Timothy..................................Oregon
Ducey, Walter James...................................Michigan
Duffy, Paul Vincent...................................Missouri
Duffy, Drexel Lawrence................................Missouri
Duffy, Thomas Calasanctius.......................  Rhode	Island
Duggan, Edward Dean..................................Indiana
Duncan, Mark Lindsay.................................Indiana
Dundon, John Richard................................Michigan
Dunn, John Gordon....................................Indiana
Durbin, Andrew Thomas...................................Ohio
Durrell, Louis Frazer................................  Texas
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 233
Dwyer, George Thomas...................................Missouri
Dyer, Edward Ruthven...................................Oklahoma
Early, Francis William.................................Illinois
Early, Michael James.....................................Oregon
Eck, Vincent John..................................Pennsylvania
Eckel, Jacob Edward......,..............................New	York
Eckel, Albert Arthur.......................................Ohio
Eden, Clifford Deneve..................................Michigan
Edmund, B...............................................Ireland
Egan, William Joseph.......................................Ohio
Eichenlaub, Raymond Joseph.................................Ohio
Eick, Louis Ferdinand......................................Ohio
Elward, Allen Henry...............................Massachusetts
English, Harold 'J........................................I	llinois
Erd, Willis Joseph....................................Wisconsin
Evans, Leonard Delbert.....................................Iowa
Fabian, B..................................................Ohio
Fallon, Thomas.............................................Ohio
Fallon, Regis..............................................Ohio
Farrell, Joseph Richard...............................New York
Farrell, Simon Thomas..................................Illinois
Farren, William Edward.....................................Ohio
Fecher, Martin Walter..................................Illinois
Feeney, Albert George...................................Indiana
Fenesy, James Clair................................Pennyslvania
Fernandez, Rev, Candido...............................Louisiana
Fernandez, Rev. Manuel.................*..............Louisiana
Feyder, Theodore Nicholas...........................South	Dakota
Ffrench, Jasper Joseph.................................Illinois
Figelstahler, Paul Albert..................................Ohio
Finch, Wilmer Otis......................................Indiana
Finegan, Charles Thomas...................................Idaho
Finnigan, Thomas Joseph..............................  Illinois
Finneran, Francis Xavier...................................Ohio
Fitch, Vernon Arthur...................................Illinois
Fitzgerald, Freeman Charles..........................Washington
Fitzgerald, John Dean..................................Illinois
Fitzpatrick, John Elmer...............................Rhode	Island
Flaherty, Frank Franey................................Wisconsin
Flanagan, Simeon Thomas...............................New York
Fleischman, Roy Moe....................................Illinois
Fletcher, Emmett Brooks....................................Ohio
Floyd, Maurice Francis.....................................Ohio
Flynn, Joseph Patrick.................................New York
Flynn, Joseph Francis...................................Indiana
Flynn, Matthew Joseph..............................Pennsylvania
Flynn, Charles Joseph.............................Massachusetts
Fogarty, James Paul.....................................Indiana
Foley, Matthew James...................................... Iowa
Foley, James William..............................Massachusetts
234
BULLETIN OF THE
Forde, Thomas Daniel.........*...........................Illinois
Fox, Kenneth Biglin....................................New York
Fox, William Francis......................................Indiana
Franco, Carlos.............................................Mexico
Frawley, Henry James.................................South	Dakota
Fregolle, Wilfred Joseph.................................Michigan
Friedman, John Henry......................................Indiana
Fries, Alfred Francis....................................Michigan
Fritch, Emil Joseph.........................................Illinois	•
Fritch, Louis Charles....................................Illinois
Fritz, Henry William.....................................Illinois
Fritzsche, Allen William.....................................Ohio
Funke, Albert Edward.....................................Michigan
Gallagher, Patrick James.............................Pennsylvania
Gallagher, William Doherty..................................Idaho
Galvin, Timothy Patrick...................................Indiana
Galvin, William Michael.....................................Texas
Gannon, Loren Sheffield..................................Michigan
Gargan, Joseph Francis..............................Massachusetts
Gaughan, Joseph Murray...................................Colorado
Gaupel, Roland Joseph....................................Missouri
Gendron, Leon Peter..........................................Ohio
Gengler, Theodore........................................Illinois
Geiger, Jacob Raphael........................................Ohio
Gibson, Lester...........................................Illinois
Gieske, Paul William.................................*... .Illinois
Gilbert, B...............................................Michigan
Gillespie, William Michael................................Indiana
Giorgi, Paolo S...........................................Indiana
Gloeckner, Albert Anthony....................................Ohio
Glueckert, Henry George...................................Indiana
Glynn, Thomas Davis.......................................Indiana
Godfrey, B...........................................Nova Scotia
Goldenberg, Harold Robert................................Illinois
Gomez, Francisco...........................................Mexico
Gonzalez, Manuel...........................................Mexico
Gonzalez, Jose Maria.........................................Cuba
Gonzalez, Juan Garcia.....................................* Mexico
Gonzalez, Manuel Joseph......................................Cuba
Gooley, Philip Edward..................................New York
Goyer, Francis Joseph....................................Michigan
Gozdowski, Paul John.........................................Ohio
Graczol, John.............................................Indiana
Grady, William Albert..................................New Jersey
Graham, Raymond John........................................Illinois	■
Gray, Wilbur Theodore....................................Michigan
Green, Allen Ransom....................................New York
Grimes, Atherton Keenan...................................Arizona
Grimes, Austin Shine......................................Arizona
Grimore, James Harrison..................................Michigan
Guedelhoefer, John Otto...................................Indiana
UNIVERSITY OF N^O TRE DAME 235
Guendling, John Edmund................................Indiana
Guerra, Benjamin....................................Porto	Rico
Gurza, Fernando........................................Mexico
Gushurst, Edward.................................South Dakota
Gushurst, Frederick William......................South Dakota
Gutierrez, Rafael Diez.................................Mexico
Hagerty, Warren Thomas. .
Haller, George Dewey........
Halmes, George Nicholas. .
Hamilton, Garland Buskirk
Hand Gilbert Philip.........
Hanley, Edward Thomas. .
Hanley, John Barry..........
Hanley, William Michael. .
Hanna, John Martin..........
Hannan, Edward David. . .
Hannan, Robert Eugene. . .
Hanifin, Thomas Joseph. . .
Hansberry, James Harry.. .
Hardy, Russell Charles... .
Hari, Louis Patrick.........
Hartley, Basil Hagan........
Harvey, Thomas Edward. .
Hassett, Francis Aloysius. .
Hatten, Alvin Donald........
Havey, William Cornelius..
Havlin, John Ralph..........
Hawley, Edgar Joseph........
Hawley, John William........
Haydon, Charles Joseph. . .
Hayes, Arthur James.........
Hayes, Frank Harold.........
Hayes, James Dawson.........
Hayes, James Raymond. . .
Hayes, Thomas Adrian. . ..
Healy, Kerndt Michael....
Healy, Thomas Moritz. . . .
Healy, Thomas Francis....
Hearn, John Joseph..........
Hearn, Thomas Hugh......
Hebert, Gaston Arthur. . ..
Hebert, Walter James........
Heffern, William Michael. .
Hellert, Louis Henry........
Henehan, Martin Ignatius.
Henry, William Cyril........
Henry, B....................
Herrick, Carl Francis.......
Heyl, Martin John...........
Higdon, James Hanson. . . ,
Hilgartner, Daniel Edward.
. .. .Wisconsin
. . . .Michigan
. . . .Nebraska
West Virginia
. . . .Wisconsin
........Ohio
West Virginia
.....Illinois
.... Kentucky
. . . . Kentucky
. .. .Wisconsin
........Ohio
. .. .Wisconsin
.....Kansas
. . . . Kentucky
.....Kansas
.Illinois
.....Illinois
.....Missouri
.Indiana
. . . .Wisconsin
......Illinois
......Illinois
. . ...Kentucky
. . .Minnesota
......Illinois
......Indiana
. . . .Wisconsin
......Indiana
......Iowa
......Iowa
......Ireland
......Canada
....Ohio
....Arkansas
....Arkansas
....Illinois
....Indiana
......Ohio
......Illinois
......Ohio
......Indiana
. Pennsylvania
. . . . Kentucky
......Illinois
236
BULLETIN OF THE
Hillman, Victor Emmanuel................................Indiana
Hiss, Frank Joseph.....................................Indiana
Hoffman, Eugene Frederick..........................West	Virginia
Hoffman, George Marr..................................Colorado
Hogan, Francis Michael...............................  Indiana
Hogan, James Edward....................................Indiana
Holden, Philip.........................................Indiana
Holderith, George Leo..................................Indiana
Holslag, Frank William.................................Indiana
Holzbauer, Joseph Jacob................................Indiana
Hood, John Leo...........................................Idaho
Horka, Joseph Francis.......................................Indiana
Horn, Tyree Rivers..............................  Philippine	Islands
Horton, Conn Joseph.........................................Indiana
Horton, John Newell........................................Illinois
Horton, Philip Evard.......................................Illinois
Hosinski, Aloysius Wladislaus...............................Indiana
Hubbell, Ramon Gutierrez..............................  .New	Mexico
Huber, Andrew Joseph...................................Missouri
Huber, Robert Edward....................................Indiana
Hudson, Galvin........................................Tennessee
Hughes, Francis Joseph.................................Michigan
Hughes, Reginald Ormond................................Illinois
Hughes, Harold Aloysius.................................Indiana
Hunter, Arthur Burton...................................Indiana
Hunter, Robert Cameron.................................Illinois
Hurley, Dennis Joseph......................................Iowa
Hurley, Ira William....................................Illinois
Hurst, William Henry..................................New York
Hurst, Gerald Hilary..................................New York
Hynes, John Felix..........................................Iowa
Irving, John Ambrose.........................................Wisconsin
Irwin, Clinton Francis........................................Illinois
Isidore, B. . . . ............................................Michigan
Jacobs, Edward.......................................Louisiana
Jankowski, Sigismond Aloysius..........................Indiana
Jasinski, John William. ........................................Illinois
Jennett, Clarence Bernard...............................Illinois
Jones, George Francis....................................Indiana
Jones, Harry Bernard....................................Michigan
Jones, Keith Kenneth.....................................Montana
Just, Desire William....................................Illinois
Kalish, William Jerome..................................Illinois
Kane, Eugene Aloysius...............................Pennsylvania
Kane, Joseph John..........................................Texas
Kasper, Simeon Michael......................................Illinois
Kazus, Maximilian Gregory....................................New	York
Keefe, Emmett George.........................................Indiana
Keeffe, Richard Herbert.......................................  Iowa
Keegan, Daniel Paul.........................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 237
Keenan, Hubert..........................................Wyoming
Keeslar, L. D...........................................Indiana
Kehoe, Frank Leo......................................Wisconsin
Keif er, Louis Frederick................................Indiana
Kelleher, William Andrew. . .,...........................Oregon
Kelley, Raymond Gross...................................Indiana
Kelly, Rudolph Lawrence................................Illinois
Kelly, Herbert Barrett..................................Alabama
Kelley, Edward Joseph..............................Rhode	Island
Kennedy, John Edward...................*................Arizona
Kennedy, Thomas Robert..................................Indiana
Kennedy, William Albert.................................  .Ohio
Kenney, Joseph Francis............................Massachusetts
Kenworthy, Peter.....................................Oklahoma
Kessler, Francis Albertus..................................Ohio
Kiley, Francis Charles...............................New York
Kiley, John Jerome......................................Indiana
Kimes, Chester John.....................................Montana
King, Albert Vincent...................................Illinois
King, Hollis Edmund....................................Nebraska
Kinsella, James Foster.................................Illinois
Kirby, Daniel William..............................South	Dakota
Kirby, Joseph Henry..............................  South	Dakota
Kirby, Thomas Howard...............................South	Dakota
Kirchman, Francis John.................................Nebraska
Kirchman, Robert Charles...............................Nebraska
Kirkland, Francis Monroe.................................Oregon
Kline, Clarence Joseph.............................Pennsylvania
Kline, James Edward.....................................Indiana
Klopfer, Henry D.......................................Illinois
Kohl, Raymond Felix........................................Ohio
Kolb, George Emmanuel........................'.......Michigan
Korte, Albert Anthony..................................Illinois
Kovacs, Joseph John. ..............................Pennsylvania
Kowalski, George William...............................Illinois
Krajewski, Casimir Ignatius............................Illinois
Kreger, Charles Dolan......................................South	Dakota
Kroll, John Joseph.....................................Illinois
Kruszynski, Peter Paul..................................Indiana
Kuhle, Albert Anton........................................South	Dakota
Kuhle, Otto Theodore.......................................South	Dakota
Kuszynski, Stanley Stephen.............................Illinois
Lacey, Hugh Vivian.......................................Oregon
Ladislas, B............................................Illinois
LaJoie, Ernest Philip................................  Michigan
Landers, Walter Brennan................................Missouri
Lang, George William.....................................Canada
Langan, Cyril Glynn....................................Nebraska
Langan, Joseph Francis.................................Illinois
Langowsky, George......................................Illinois
Larkin, Arthur Bernard.................................Illinois
238
BULLETIN OF THE
Larney, Edwin John.......................................Illinois
Lathrop, Ralph Jefferson................................Wisconsin
Laughlin, Thomas McHugh.................................Wisconsin
Lawler, James William................................Pennsylvania
Lawrence, Charles Bassett....................................Ohio
Leary, Denis Edwin.........................................Iowa
Lepreau, William Neville...............................Illinois
Lenihan, Emmett George.....................................Iowa
Lensing, Henry Bernard..................................Indiana
Lenz, Philip George...............................................Illinois
Leopold, Walter Joseph.....................................:......Illinois
LeRoy, Irving Thomas..............................................Illinois
Leuty, Loy Courtney..................................Indiana
Lillis, John Edward................................Minnesota
Lindstrom, LeRoy A..................................Illinois
Linn, Stephen.......................................Illinois
Lloyd, Lester Thompson..............................Illinois
Lockard, Frank Robert...................................Ohio
Loeb, Monroe.............................................Illinois
Loftus, Harold Jerome....................................Illinois
Loftus, William Dunn.....................................Illinois
Loker, Lauren Ferguson...................................Illinois
Londoner, Richard Pierson. .........................Massachusetts
Long, Forrest............................................Illinois
Long, George Rolland......................................Indiana
Lopez, Camillo Rafael......................................Mexico
Lorigan, Daniel Clement..............................  .Wisconsin
Lucas, George Maurice.....................................Indiana
Luzny, Francis Xavier.....................................Indiana
Lynch, Edward John...................................Pennsylvania
Lynch, James Joseph..........................................Iowa
Lynch, William David.....................................Illinois
Lynch, Hugh Thomas........................................Indiana
Lyons, Theodore John.......................................Kansas
Lyons, William Joseph....................................New	York
Macbeth, George Kerr................................Missouri
MacCarthy, Cornelius George.............................Iowa
MacDonald, William Edward............................Montana
MacGreagor, Donald Patrick............................Canada
Mackie, Robert Andrew...............................Illinois
Mackie, William Bessy...............................Illinois
Madden, Arthur James....................................Ohio
Madden, Francis Leo-................................Michigan
Madden, Harold Daniel..............................Minnesota
Madden, Harold Francis................................  Ohio
Maguire, Leon Percy.................................Illinois
Mahaffey, Frederick Thomas...........................Indiana
Maher, Francis Thomas................................Indiana
Maher, Thomas Francis................................Indiana
Mahoney, John Francis................................Wyoming
Maley, Edward Michael...........................Pennsylvania
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
239
Malkowski, John Stanislaus...............................Illinois
Malone, Louis Pierre....................................    .Ohio
Maloney, Charles Patrick..................................Indiana
Malarney, John Matthew...................................Michigan
' Mangan, Michael Joseph..................................Ireland
Mann, Harry Joseph.......................................Illinois
Marcille, Gilbert Grover...............................New York
Marcus, Edward Magel......................................Indiana
Margraf, John.............................................Germany
Marshall, Fayles Elmer...................................Michigan
Martin, Clarence Edward..................................Nebraska
Martin, Frederick Charles.................................Indiana
Martin, George Francis...................................Illinois
Martinez, Jose.............................................Mexico
Mason, Harold Vere.......................................Michigan
Massey, George Joseph....................................Illinois
Matallana, Rev. Dominic.................................Louisiana
Matthews, James Anthony.................................Wisconsin
Matthew, B...................................................Iowa
Mattingly, Stephen Twyman................................Kentucky
Mayer, Aron..............................................Illinois
Mayer, Flenry............................................Illinois
Mean well, Charles Vincent...............................Michigan
Meara, Edwin Francis.......................................Kansas
Meara, James Michael.......................................Kansas
Medley, George Edward....................................Kentucky
Mee, Edward Francis......................................Illinois
Meehan, Martin Patrick...................................Illinois
Meers, John Scott........7...........-...................Illinois
Meifeld, Paul John........................................Indiana
Meng, William Cornelius......................................Ohio
Merriman, Clifford Alphonso..............................Illinois
Merrion, Eugene Valentine................................Illinois
Messersmith, George Murray...............................Illinois
Meuser, William Beck.........................................Iowa
Meyer, Joseph Albert.........................................Ohio
Meyers, Stephen Francis..................................Illinois
Michel, Henry Newman....................................Louisiana
Micinski, John Stanislaus.................................Indiana
Millea, Eugene William....................................Indiana
Milligan, Peter Robert.................................  Illinois
Miller, Bernard Henry............♦..................... Wisconsin
Miller, Grover Francis.................................Wisconsin
Miller, John Milton......................................Illinois
Miller, Joseph Henry...................................New York
Miller, Jerome John.......................................Indiana
Miller, Lyman William................•.....................Sweden
Miller, Omar Hubert......................................Illinois
Miller, Raymond Thomas.......................................Ohio
Miller, Raymond Clendenin.................................Indiana
Milliken, Norman Clarence.................................Indiana
Mills, Rupert Francis..................................New Jersey
240
BULLETIN OF THE
Miner, Joseph. Peter...........................Pennsylvania
Mischler, Elmer. ..................................Illinois
Moffett, Harry Theodore.............................Indiana
Moloney, Edward Lawrence...........................Michigan
Mooney, Charles Patrick...........................Tennessee
Mooney, Edward Vincent..............................Indiana
Mooney, Francis Gerald.................................Ohio
Mooney, William. Joseph.............................Indiana
Monaghan, Francis John.............................Illinois
Monier, John Lawrence..............................Illinois
Monighan, Francis Patrick......................Pennsylvania
Morales, Alfred Edward...............................Mexico
Moran, Denis Sullivan...............................Indiana
Moran, Edgar Francis...............................Oklahoma
Morrison, Charles Welstead.........................Illinois
Motts, Edward Theodore..............................Indiana
Mottz, Charles Peter...............................Missouri
Moushey, Paul Joseph...................................Ohio
Moynihan, Andrew Joseph...........................  Indiana
Muckle, Leo Augustine..............................New York
Mulcahy, Frank Patrick.............................New York
Mulcaire, Michael Aloysius..........................Ireland
Muldoon, John Andrew...............................Illinois
Mulholland, Donald Victor..............................Ohio
Mullaley, William Joseph...6.......................Illinois
Mulloy, Raymond Thomas.............................Michigan
Munger, Harold Henry...................................Ohio
Murphy, Charles Joseph.............................Illinois
Murphy, Daniel Joseph..............................Illinois
Murphy, John James.............................Pennsylvania
Murray, Harry Booth.............................New Mexico
Murray, William John...........................Pennsylvania
McAdams, Gerald Edward.............................New York
McAdams, Raymond Francis..........•................New York
McBride, Eugene Richard........................Pennsylvania
McBride, Francis Bernard.......................Pennsylvania
McBride, Thomas Mars...............................Illinois
McCaffery, Bernard Joseph...........................Indiana
McCamic, Edward Paul............................West Virginia
McCarthy, Charles Herman..........................Minnesota
McCarthy, Denis Timothy.............................Indiana
McCarty, John Donovan.........................Massachusetts
McCarthy, John Vincent.................................Iowa
McCarthy, Jeremiah Anthony..........................Indiana
McCarthy, Louis Augustine.........................Minnesota
McCarthy, Theodore.....................................Ohio
McCarren, Edward Walter............................Missouri
McConnell, Andrew Harold...........................Nebraska
McConnell, Walton Jerome............................Indiana
McCourt, Walter Patrick................................Ohio
McCoy, George Nolan...............................Wisconsin
4
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 241
McDermott, James Aloysius...................... Illinois
McDonald, George DeWald.........................Illinois
McDonald, John Donald...........................Nebraska
McDonald, Leroy Joseph..........................Illinois
McDonald, James Harold..........................Illinois
McDonough, Andrew Leo...........................New Jersey
McDonough, Francis John.........................New Jersey
McGivney, Walter John...........................Illinois
McElheny, John Earl.............................Missouri
McElroy, Henry Joseph........................Connecticut
McEniry, Willfam Thomas........................ Illinois
McErlain, Maurice John...........................Indiana
McGahan, Leo James..............................Michigan
McGovern, Thomas Aloysius...........................Iowa
McGrath, Arnold John............................Illinois
McGrath, Joseph Michael.........................New York
McGuiness, Thomas Burke.........................Michigan
McGuire, Bird Alexander.........................Oklahoma
McGuire, James Emmett............................Indiana
McGuire, Leo Francis............................Oklahoma
McGuire, Thomas Francis..........................Indiana
McGraw, John Felix..........................Pennsylvania
McGurk, Francis Ignatius............................Ohio
Mcllwee, Lawrence Anthony.......................Colorado
Mcllwee, William Joseph.........................Colorado
McInerney, Gerald John..........................Michigan
McInerney, Leo John.............................Michigan
McKenna, Edmond John............................Illinois
McKimm, Lawrence Earl...............................Ohio
McKinney, Truman Dixon...........................Indiana
McLaughlin, Thomas Archibald....................Michigan
McLaughlin, Thomas Flynn........................New York
McLoughlin, Joseph Gerald.......................New	Jersey
McManus, Thomas Joseph......................;.......Illinois
McMullen, Hubert....................................Ohio
McNamara, Vincent Francis......................Wisconsin
McNamara, Thomas Newman.............................Ohio
McNamara, William Michael.......................Illinois
McNichols, Austin Aloysius......................Illinois
McNichols, Harry Joseph.........................Illinois
McOsker, Edward Joseph..........................Illinois
McQuade, Bernard James......................Pennsylvania
McQueeney, Lawrence Edward.................   .Wisconsin
McShane, John Joseph.............................Indiana
Nagel, Vincent Anthony...........................Indiana
Newgass, Mitchell Cornelius.................... Illinois
Newning, Harry McCarthy..........................  Texas
Newning, Samuel DeCordova..........................Texas
Niemier, Melchior Stanislaus.....................Indiana
Nieuwland, Arthur................................Indiana
Nigro, Dominico Michael.........................Missouri
242
BULLET-IN OF THE
Nolan, Michael Harvey.................................Indiana
Norckauer, Maurice Joseph................................Ohio
Norbert, B...........................................Michigan
Nowers, Paul...........................................Kansas
Norris, Gerald Benedict..................................Iowa
O’Boyle, Desmond Gladstone...............................Canada
O’Brian, William Crim...................................Indiana
O’Brien, Arthur Coffey.................................Michigan
O’Brien, Cornelius Valentine...........................New	York
O’Brien, James Christopher.............................Illinois
O’Brien, William Robert...............................Minnesota
O’Brien, William Norman....................................Ohio
O’Brien, Joseph Francis................................New	Jersey
O’Connell, Eugene Daniel................................Indiana
O’Connell, Theodore William............................Illinois
O’Connor, Vincent Bradley.............................Wisconsin
Odem, James Francis
Texas
O’Donoghue, John Brennan............................Illinois
O’Donnell, Francis Joseph.........-.................Michigan
O’Donnell, James Patrick.............................Montana
O’Donell, James Alfred............................Washington
O’Donnell, John Hugh................................Michigan
O’Donnell, Leo Day..............................Pennsylvania
O’Donnell, Thomas Raymond.................................Indiana
Oesterle, Carl Anthony.................................  Michigan
Ogden, Lynden..........................................  Illinois
O’Hara, Herman Benedict...................................Indiana
O’Hara, Francis Joseph....................................Indiana
O’Hearne, John Edward....................................Illinois
O’Keefe, Royal William...................................Michigan
Olney, Thomas Albert....................................  Indiana
Omacht, George William....................................Indiana
O’Neill, Eugene Marcus................................  Minnesota
O’Neil, Howard John......................................Illinois
O’Neill, John Robert....................................Minnesota
O’Neill, Roland Sylvester.................................Indiana
Ording, Carl Henry.......................................Illinois
O’Reilly, Francis Warren...................................Oregon
O’Reilly, John Joseph. .	 Illinois
O’Reilly, William Henry.................................„ .Illinois
Ort, Robert Krider......................................?. Indiana
Orton, Louis Spitley.....................................Illinois
Osborne, Lee................*........................... Illinois
O’Shea, Maurice Joseph...................................Illinois
O’Sullivan, Joseph.......................................Illinois
Otero, Jose................................................Mexico
Ott, Francis Clement...................................California
Outhuse, David Edward....................................Michigan
Ovington, Robert James.......................................Ohio
Owens, John Raymond..........................................Ohio
Palmer, Cornelius William................................Illinois
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 243
Parish, Anthony Marsille.................................Illinois
Parker, Owen Wesley.................................... Tennessee
Paszek, Hilary Joseph.................................... Indiana
Peabody, Leo Narvarre....................................Michigan
Peil, Edward Fyans......................................Wisconsin
Pelletier, Adrian Werner.................................Illinois
Pepin, Donat Joseph......................................Michigan
Perkins, Walter Eugene.....................................Canada
Perrott, Samuel Ward......................................Indiana
Peters, Philip Alphonse..............................West	Virginia
Peugnet, Amedee Armond...................................Missouri
Peugnet, Hubert..........................................Missouri
Peugnet, John Sarpy......................................Missouri
Peugnet, William Ironsides.............................. Missouri
Peterman, Edward Stanley............................... Louisiana
Phibbs, John Xavier....................................New York
Plant, John..............................................Illinois
Pliska, Joseph Stanley...................................Illinois
Poyer, Lester Philip.....................................Michigan
Pralatowski, Frederick Michael.........................New York
Prieto, Pedro Jesse.....'..................................Mexico
Probst, Francis...........................................Indiana
Przybysz, Joseph Ferdinand................................Indiana
Quinlan, Francis Raymond............................Massachusetts
Quinlan, Patrick Thomas......................................Ohio
Quintanilla, Ignatio Manuel.........’......................Mexico
Rebori, Eduardo..........................................Missouri
Rebori, Emilo............................................Missouri
Railton, John R..........................................Illinois
Ramsey, Irving Edward....................................Illinois
Ranstead, Norman Hugh. ..................................Illinois
Rausch, Lorenzo August....................................Indiana
Raycraft, William Bernard................................Illinois
Reading, Almon Franklin..................................Michigan
Reading, Harvey Judd.....................................Michigan
Redden, William Joseph......................................Idaho
Regan, Bernard Michael..............................North	Dakota
Regan, George Joseph.....................................Illinois
Remmes, Francis Bernard.............................Massachusetts
Remmes, Walter Augustine............................Massachusetts
Reynolds, John Joseph.....................................Vermont
Richards, Thomas Daniel..................................Michigan
Riedman, Emil John.......................................New	York
Riely, Edward Francis....................................Illinois
Riley, John Urban...................................Massachusetts
Riley, Charles Joseph....................................Illinois
Riley, George Andrew.....................................Nebraska
Risch, Robert............................................Illinois
Roach, James Emmett......................................Illinois
Roach, Robert Leonard........................................Iowa
244
BULLETIN OF THE
Roberts, Bert Leo.......................................Arkansas
Robins, James Vermont................................New Mexico
Robinson, Glenn Eugene..................................Michigan
Robinson, John Gerard...................................Illinois
Robinson, William Henry..................................Indiana
Roche, Arthur Breen.....................................Illinois
Roche, John Stephen......................................Ireland
Roche, Maurice Edward...................................Illinois
Rockne, Knute Kenneth...................................Illinois
Rodgers, Harry Lawrence...................................  Ohio
Rogers, Edward John....................................Wisconsin
Rogers, Francis Charles.....................................Iowa
Rohan, Howard Joseph........................................Ohio
Rokosz, Boleslaus.......................................Illinois
Roney, Nari Grady.......................................Illinois
Rose, Edward Joseph.........,..........................New York
Rosenfeld, Julian Victor................................Illinois
Rubio, Ramon Garcia.........................................Cuba
Rudolph, Simon Raymond..............................Pennsylvania
Russell, Leon Thomas...................................Michigan
Russina, Henry Louis....................................Illinois
Ryan, Arthur William........................................Ohio
Ryan, Edwin Sylvester...................................Illinois
Ryan, Edward Christopher............t...................Illinois
Ryan, Francis John......................................Illinois
Ryan, Otis Henry........................................Michigan
Ryan, Paul Joseph...........’.......................Pennsylvania
Ryan, Howard Joseph.....................................Michigan
Ryan, James Joseph.....................................New York
Reeves, Charles Burroughs................................Indiana
Sackley, Rigney Joseph..................................Illinois
Salazar, Emilio Jose Rufino.................................Cuba
Sallust, Karroll Thompson................................Indiana
Sanders, Harry Lemon.....................................Indiana
Sanford, James Edward.......................................Ohio
San Pedro, Jorge Rodriguez..................................Cuba
Santee, Isaac Benton....................................Illinois
Santee, John Andrew...............................:.....Illinois
Sauer, Theodore Joseph...................................Indiana
Sauve, Hormisdas, Joseph................................Michigan
Savage, Paul Howells........................................Ohio
Scanlan, John George....................................Illinois
Scanlan, Thomas.........................................Illinois
Schaub, Raymond August...................................Indiana
Scheid, William Howard..................................Michigan
Schiavone, Anthony Joseph...............................Illinois
Schinkoeth, Leroy.......................................Illinois
Schlipf, Albert Charles.................................Illinois
Schmauss, John Earl.....................................Illinois
Schmitt, John Joseph...................................New York
Schneider, Leo August...............................Pennsylvania
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 245
Schreyer, Andrew Ignatius.................................Indiana
Schuster, George Peter..................................Wisconsin
Schwartz, Albert.........................................Illinois
Schwartz, Paul.....................•...................  Illinois
Scollard, Stephen Fitzgerald...............................Oregon
Scully, Vincent Charles..................................Illinois
Segovia, Francisco........................................M exico
Sepulveda, Carlos..........................................Mexico
Shanahan, George William.'.................................  Ohio
Shannon, Charles.......................................  Illinois
Sharp, Arthur Joseph.......................................Oregon
Shaughnessy, Thomas Joseph...............................Illinois
Shea, John Cornelius......................................Indiana
Shea, William James......................................Illinois
Sheehan* Charles Aloysius...........................Massachusetts
Sheehy, Edward St. Claire..............................  Illinois
Sheehy, Harry Carroll....................................Illinois
Shirley, Paul Vincent....................................Nebraska
Sholem, Jerome Jacob.....................................Illinois
Short, Maury William.....................................Oklahoma
Short, Norman Francis....................................Illinois
Shouvlin, Daniel Emmett......................................Ohio
Simons, Roger Charles....................................Illinois
Singelyn, James Alphonse.................................Michigan
Singler, Robert Jacob.....................................Indiana
Skelly, Daniel Joseph................................Pennsylvania
Slattery, John Patrick....................................Indiana
Smith, Delbert Devereux..................................Illinois
Smith, Paul Joseph........................................Indiana
Smith, Walter Aloysius...............................Pennsylvania
Smith, Frederick Peter...................................Illinois
Smith, Harry Aloysius..........................................New	York
Smith, Joseph Clovis...........................................New	York
Smith, James Patrick.....................................Missouri
Smith, Joseph Francis....................................... . .Ohio
Snyder, Clarence Vanling.................................Illinois
Soisson, Ignatius Lang...............................Pennsylvania
Somers, Charles Patrick......................................Ohio
Sommerer, Edwin Henry.....................................Indiana
Speidel, John George.................................Pennsylvania
Spillane, Arthur James...............................Pennsylvania
Spillane, John Owen..................................Pennsylvania
Stack, Joseph William........................................Ohio
Stack, Robert Anthony...................................... .Ohio
Stack, William Cornelius................................Wisconsin
Stapleton, Thomas Gerald.....................................Iowa
Steele, Webster Anthony........................................New	York
Steis, Edmund Gerald......................................Indiana
Steitz, Gustave John.....................................Illinois
Stephan, Leo Joseph......................................Illinois
Steppier, Joseph Peter..................................Wisconsin
Stevenson, Martin Lindsay....................................Ohio
246
BULLETIN OF THE
Stonehill, Frederick Victor...............................Indiana
Strahan, Speer William...................................Michigan
Strassner, George Francis....................................Ohio
Strickfaden, Aloysius Ignatius...............................Ohio
Sturdivant, William Okeson................................Illinois	.
Suarez, Francisco..........................................Mexico
Sullivan, Andrew Florence................................Illinois
Sullivan, Daniel Edward...................................Wyoming
Sullivan, John Francis...................................Illinois
Sullivan, Marion Francis..................................Indiana
Sullivan, Melville Edward................................Virginia
Sullivan, Raymond John.......................................Iowa
Susen, Benedict Paul.....................................Illinois
Susen, Henry Peter.......................................Illinois
Susen, William Hubert....................................Illinois
Swift, Frank Elmer...........................................Iowa
Sylvester, Harry Joseph.................................Minnesota
Taaffe, Francis Tracy...................................New York
Tansey, Joseph Aloysius....................................Indiana
Thole, Joseph Isadore................................North	Dakota
Thorpe, Walter Aloysius....................................Illinois
Tierney, Harry Bernard........:..........................Nebraska
Tierney, Timothy Joseph..................................Missouri
Tighe, John Forrest..........................................Ohio
Tobin, Elmer Clayton.....................................Illinois
Tomaszeski, Stanley Hilary................................Indiana
Towle, William Clarke....................................Illinois
Treanor, William Good.....................................Indiana
Trudelle, Matthew Eugene................................Wisconsin
Truder, Thomas Vincent.................................New	Mexico
Tschudi, Leo Louis...........................................Iowa
Tutt, Charles Munshall...................................Illinois
Tutt, David Lang.......................................  Illinois
Tutt, James Pendleton....................................Illinois
Tyler, Daniel Kenneth...................................Wisconsin
Tyler, William Howard...................................Wisconsin
Tyner, Richard Howard...................................New York
Valles, Manuel Donaciano...................................Mexico
Valles, Jose Trinidad......................................Mexico
Vallez, Henry Arthur.....................................Michigan
Vaughan, Charles Leo...........................'...........Indiana
Vincent, B...................................................Ohio
Vitus, B.....................................................Ohio
Voelkers, Jerry George....................................Indiana
Voelkers, John Joseph.....................................Indiana
Vogel, Leo Joseph....................................Pennsylvania
Vogt, Richard.............................................Indiana
Voll, Bernard John. .........................................Ohio
Von Thron, Leonard Carl......................................Ohio
Vyzral, Sylvester Victor......-..........................Illinois
Urquico, Jose Antonio
Philippine Islands
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 247
Waage, George Billington.............................. Illinois
Walls, Grattan Thaddeus ..........................Massachusetts
Walsh, Janies Robert.....................................Illinois
Walsh, Joseph Martin.................................Pennsylvania
Walsh, Thomas Joseph.................................Pennsylvania
Walsh, John Joseph.....................................New York
Walter, B..................................................  Ohio
Walter, Frederick Martin.................................Illinois
Walter, Martin Emmett....................................Illinois
Walter, Norman Louis.....................................Illinois
Ward, Gilbert James......................................Illinois
Ward, James Patrick......................................Illinois
Ward, John Michael........................................Montana
Ward, Richard Francis....................................Illinois
Ward, Robert Emmett......................................Illinois
Waring, John Nicholas..................................New York
Wasson, Lawrence Arthur......................................Iowa
Wathen, William Nicholas.................................Kentucky
Watson, Louis Latour......................................Indiana
Watson, Edward Dean.......................................Indiana
Watt, John Edward.......................................Wisconsin
Watters, Edward Dibrell...................................Montana
Weaver, George...............................................Iowa
Weber, John Wallace. .:..................................Michigan
Weckler, Paul Eugene.....................................Illinois
Weidner, Hubert Pancratius...............................Illinois
Weiland, Paul Edward.........................................Ohio
Weixel, Francis Adrian...............................Pennsylvania
Welch, John Aloysius......................................Indiana
Welch, Lawrence Joseph....................................Indiana
Welch, Philip Benise.....................................Illinois
Welch, Thomas R..........................................Illinois
Welsh, Frank Baird.......................................Missouri
Wentland, Francis Louis...................................Indiana
Werling, James Foster...........................i............Ohio
White, John Maunsel.....................................Tennessee
Wildman, Harold Henderson............................Pennsylvania
William, B...................................................Ohio
Williams, Max............................................Illinois
Williams, Solomon........................................Illinois
Williamson, Clarence John....................................Ohio
Wilson, David Martin.....................................Illinois
Wilson, Herbert Mitchell.................................Illinois
Wilson, Theodore Roosevelt................................Oklahoma	-
Wittenberg, John Conrad.......................................West	Virginia
Wittenberg, Newman John.......................................West	Virginia
Wolf, Harold Leonard.....................................Illinois
Wolf, Walter Myron.......................................Illinois
Wolter, William Joseph..................................Wisconsin
Woofter, James George.........................................West	Virginia
Worden, John Lorimer....................................  Indiana
Wright, Alfred Edward......................................Canada
248
BULLETIN OF THE
Wildgen, Jerome Charles.............................Kansas
Yann, Martin Robert...............................New York
Yeager, Leslie Arnold.............................New York
Yerns, Peter Charles..............................New York
Yockey, Claude Russell............................Michigan
Young, Andrew Winfred............................Wisconsin
Young, Jack Spalding..............................Kentucky
Young, Thomas B...................................Kentucky
Ziebold, Maximilian Gottlieb......................Illinois
Zgodzinski, Leo Stanislaus.........................Indiana
Zit, George Nicholas...............................Indiana
SUMMARY
Alabama.....................1	Oregon...................10
Arizona.................... 4	Pennsylvania.............39
Arkansas....................3	Rhode Island...........   3
California..................2	South Dakota.............10
Colorado....................4	T ennessee................5
Connecticut.................4	Texas....................11
Florida.....................1	Virginia..................1
Georgia...................  2	Vermont...................2
Idaho.......................4	Washington.. .............4
Illinois..................268	West Virginia.............8
Indiana...................158	Wisconsin................ 50
Iowa.......................28	Wyoming...................3
Kansas.....................9
Kentucky..................13
Louisiana..................11	Canada....................7
Massachusetts..............15	Canal Zone................1
Michigan...................68	Central America...........1
Minnesota..................17	Cuba......................7
Missouri...................30	Ireland...................5
Montana.....................9	Germany...................1
Nebraska...................13	Mexico.............‘.....25
New Jersey..................9	Philippine Islands........2
New Mexico..................5	Porto Rico................2
New York...................52	San Domingo...............1
North Dakota................3	South America.............4
Ohio.......................85	Sweden..................  1
Oklahoma................    7	Total..................1028
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 249
THE NOTRE DAME ALUMNI ASSOCIATION
OFFICERS
1913-14.
Honorary President.
THE REV. JOHN J. BURKE, ’83.
Peoria, Illinois.	,
President.
HONORABLE CHARLES M. BRYAN, ’97.
Memphis, Tennessee.
'	Vice-Presidents.
HONORABLE J. JOSEPH COOKE, ’94.
Beardstown, Illinois.
HONORABLE JOHN EGGEMAN, ’00.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
WILLIAM McINERNY, ’01.
South Bend, Indiana.
HONORABLE PETER J. McELLIGOTT, ’02.
New York City
WILLIAM E. COTTER, T3.
Chicago, Illinois. •
Secretary	.
REV. WILLIAM A. MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
Treasurer.
HONORABLE WARREN A. CARTIER, ’87.
Ludington, Michigan.
Trustees, Ex-Officio.
REV. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C., ’90.
President of the University.
HONORABLE CHARLES M. BRYAN, ’97.
Memphis, Tennessee.
250
BULLETIN OF THE
For One Year 1913-14
THOMAS A. DAILY, ’74.
Adrian, Michigan.
THOMAS A. MEDLEY, ’98.
Owensboro, Kentucky.
HARRY G. HOGAN, ’04.
Fort Wayne, Indiana.
For Two Y^ars 1913-15
THOMAS HOBAN, ’99.
South Bend, Indiana.
CLEMENT C. MITCHELL, ’02.
Chicago, Illinois.
REV. MICHAEL SHEA, ’04.
New York City.
LOCAL CLUBS
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF CHICAGO.
Stephen F. Riordan, President, 324 Starr St.
John C. Tully, Vice-President, 2327 Jackson Blvd.
Fred L. Steers, Secretary, 1350 First National Bank
Bldg.
Ruppert P. Donovan, Treasurer, 1400 First National
Bank Bldg.
W. P. Devine, Judge Michael F. Girten, John F.
O’Connell, Stephen F. Riordan, Daniel J. O’Con-
nor, William R. Tipton, Fred L. Steers, James V.
Cunningham, John C.. Tully, Executive Committee.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF TOLEDO. '
Rev. John T. O’Connell, Honorary President, 4290
Ashland, Avenue.
John Wernert, President, 1028 Ontario Street.
Michael P. Hannin, Vice-President, 2325 Franklin
Avenue.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 251
James J. Cooney, Secretary, 15 Page Street.
Joseph O’Reilly, Treasurer, 216 Burnham Street.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PITTSBURG.
Raymond J. Daschbach, President,. Jenkins Arcade
Bldg.
Raymond J. Burns, Vice-President, 5601 Baum Street.
Edward P. Escher, Secretary, Swissvale Station, Brad-
dock.
I	9
Howard J. Diebold, Treasurer, 5735 Center Avenue.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PHILADELPHIA.
Joseph D. Murphy, President, United States Mint.
Andrew J. Hanhauser, Secretary, 1505 Venango Street.
John H. Neeson, Treasurer, 5116 North Broad Street.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF PORTLAND, OREGON.
Hon. John M. Gearin, President, Portland Hotel.
F. J. Lonergan, Secretary, Chamber of Commerce Bldg.
John F. Daly, Treasurer, Lewis Building.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF BOSTON.
Dr. John Fennessey, President, 19 Adams Street, Dor-
chester. .	.
Honorable William P. Higgins, Vice-President, 31
South Boston.
William H. McCarthy, Secretary-Treasurer, 91 Ocean
Street, Lynn. .
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MINNEAPOLIS
AND ST. PAUL.
Louis P. Chute, President, 7 University Avenue, N. E.,
Minneapolis.
William M. O’Brien, Vice-President, Eden Valley,
Minnesota.
Thomas J. McKeon, Vice-President, 817 Poigney Bldg.,
Duluth.	■
William D. Jamieson, Secretary, 1903 Selby Avenue,
St. Paul.
252	BULLETIN OF THE
Thomas O’Regan, Treasurer, 1773 Laurel Ave., St.
Paul.
George Freeman, Oliver H. Tong, Judge Brady, Ex-
ecutive Committee.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF MILWAUKEE.
Chauncey W. Yockey, President, Wells Building.
Frank P. Burke, Vice-President, Pabst Building.
George F. Ziegler, Secretary, 233 East Water Street.
Louis E. Best, Treasurer, 721 Central Avenue.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF DAYTON, OHIO.
John C. Shea, President, 810 Reibold Building.
Thomas A. Ford, Secretary, 127 Maple Street.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF FORT WAYNE, INDIANA
John W. Eggemann, President, 614 Shoaff Building.
Harry G. Hogan, Vice-President, Court and Berry Sts.
Joseph M. Haley, Secretary, Old National Bank Bldg.
Robert L. Fox, Treasurer, Care of Fox Brothers.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF INDIANAPOLIS.
Maurice A. Neville, President, 3114 Park Avenue.
Rev. Vincent D. Dwyer, Vice-President, 617 East
North Street.
James E. Deery, Secretary, 217 Randolph Street.
George J. Potts, Treasurer, 2822 Talbott Avenue.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF NEW YORK.
Rev. Luke J. Evers, President, 20 City Hall Place.
Frank P. Dwyer, Vice-President, 208 Broadway.
Rev. John B. McGrath, Vice-President, 282 W. 118th St.
Peter P. McElligott, Secretary, 93 Wall Street.
Charles A. Gorman, Treasurer, 229 Grand St., Brooklyn.
THE NOTRE DAME CLUB OF WASHINGTON, D. C.
Charles P, Neill, President, Ex-Commissioner of Labor.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 253
James D. Barry, Secretary-Treasurer, 928 Fourteenth
Street, N. W.
Rev. Joseph Boyle, C. S. C., Joseph J. Kilkenny, Dr.
J. Augustine Flynn, Francis Cull, Executive Com-
mittee.
SIXTY-NINTH ANNUAL COMMENCEMENT
June 16, 1913.
DEGREES AND AWARDS
THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR OF LAWS was con-
ferred on a distinguished statesman who served his
country brilliantly for thirty-two years in the National
Congress, whose public record has been as free from
taint as it is rich in great accomplishment, the Honor-
able Julius Caesar Burrows of Kalamazoo, Michigan.
On an educator whose high faculty it is to win hearts
as well as to train minds, who unites the severely scien-
tific spirit with the most Christ-like compassion and
sympathy, whose devotion to Christian education is as
unwavering as his achievements are honorable, the
Rev. William Joseph Kerby of Washington, D. C.
On the Chief Executive of a great State whose career
has brought as much honor to himself as it has worked
advantage to the nation, the Honorable James M.
Cox, Governor of the State of Ohio.
THE DEGREE OF DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY
IN COURSE was conferred on Jose Angel Caparo,
C. E., M. C. E., E. E., M. S. in Math., Sc. D., of Peru,
South America. Thesis. “The Theory of the Geome-
try of Hyperspace as Applied to a Space of Four Di-
mensions and the Derivations of the Fundamental
Magnitudes of a Quadruply Orthogonol System.”
THE DEGREE^ OF MASTER OF SCIENCE IN
COURSE was conferred on Regidius Marion Kacz-
254
BULLETIN OF THE
marek, Laporte, Ind. Thesis: “A System of Plant
Morphology.”
THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF MECHANICAL
ENGINEERING was conferred on William Logan
Benitz, M. E. E. E.
THE DEGREE OF MASTER OF LAWS was con-
ferred on Patrick Henry Cunning, Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania. Thesis: “Patents.”
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF ARTS was
conferred on Richard Vincent Blake, Hartford, Con-
necticut; William Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois;
Walter Henry Coffeen, South Bend, Indiana; Bernard
Jacob Durch, Chippewa Falls, Wisconsin; Francis
Joseph Dillon, Butler, Pennsylvania; Erich Hans de
Fries, Davenport, Iowa; John Charles Kelley, Ander-
son, Indiana'.
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF LETTERS
was conferred on John Thomas Burns, Kalamazoo,
Michigan; Francis Jerome Breslin, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia; Joseph Allan Heiser, South Bend, Indiana;
Edward Andrew Roach, Muscatine, Iowa; Raymond
Joseph Sieber, Racine, Wisconsin; Francis Curtis
Stanford, Independence, Kansas; James Joseph Stack,
Springfield, Illinois.
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY
was conferred on Paul Ryan Byrne, Chittenango, New
York; Jesse James Herr, Chatsworth, Illinois; Louis
John Kiley, Rochester, New York; Thomas Francis
O’Neill, Akron, Ohio; Simon Ercile Twining, Bowling
Green, Ohio.
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
BIOLOGY was conferred on William Joseph Corcoran,
Portland, Oregon.	-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 255
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
CHEMISTRY was conferred on August Herbert
Boldt, Elgin, Illinois.
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
ARCHITECTURE was conferred on William Reuben
Tipton, East Las Vegas, New Mexico; Frederick Wil-
laims, Wadena, Indiana.
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF SCIENCE IN
ARCHITECTURAL ENGINEERING was conferred
on Ernest John Baader, Chillicothe, Ohio.
THE DEGREE OF CIVIL ENGINEER was con-
ferred on Harry John Kirk, Defiance, Ohio; Charles
William Lahey, Mattoon, Illinois; James Francis
O’Brien, Fairbury, Illinois; Augustin Gonzalez Saravia,
Durango, Mexico; Leo Alfred Sturn, Monroe, Michigan;
James Wasson, Chicago, Illinois.
THE DEGREE OF MECHANICAL ENGINEER
was conferred on Manuel Fernando Arias, Havana,
Cuba; Clyde Eloi Broussard, Beaumont, Texas; Jose
Angel Caparo, Cusco Peru;, Warren Ray Cartier,
Ludington, Michigan; Antonio Lequerica, Cartagena,
Columbia, S. America; Thomas Francis Maguire,
Fowler, Indiana; Alvaro Rodriguez San Pedro, Con-
salacion der Sur, Cuba.	•
THE DEGREE OF CHEMICAL ENGINEER was
conferred on Manuel Lequerica, Cartagena, Columbia,
S. America.
THE DEGREE OF ELECTRICAL ENGINEER
was conferred on Manuel Fernando Arias, Havana,
Cuba; James Ryan Devitt, Cleveland, Ohio; Thomas
Aloysius Furlong, Chicago, Illinois, William Neil
Hogan, Crafton, Pennsylvania; John William O’Con-
nell, Elgin, Illinois; Antonio Aldrete Rivas, Jalisco,
256
BULLETIN OF THE
Mexico; John. Alfred Sawkins, Toledo, Ohio; Frederick
Louis Truscott, Glasgow, Montana.
THE DEGREE OF BACHELOR OF LAWS was
conferred on Jacob Vivian Birder, Park River, North
Dakota; Aristo Cornelius Brizzolara, Little Rock,
Arkansas; Charles Francis Crowley, Cambridge, Mass-
achusetts; Edward Patrick Cleary, Momence, Illinois;
William Edward Cotter, Chicago, Illinois; Francis
William Durbin, Kenton, Ohio; Michael Augustine
Dougherty, Lancaster, Ohio; Clyde J. Dennis, Kala-
mazoo, Michigan; William Joseph Granfield, Spring-
field, Massachusetts; Frederick Matthew Gilbough,
Galveston, Texas; William Joseph Hicks, Spring Valley,
Illinois; Le Grande Anderson Hammond, Decatur,
Michigan; Cornelius Byron Hayes, Fort Wayne, Indi-
ana; Floyd Ottowell Jellison, South Bend, Indiana;
Henry John Kuhle, Salem, South Dakota; Stephen
John Morgan, Chicago, Illinois; William Joseph Mil-
roy, Chatsworth, Illinois; Peter John Meersman, Mo-
line, Illinois; Thomas Aloysius McGovern, Whittemore,
Iowa; Daniel Vincent McGinnis, Slater, Missouri;
Reuben Patrick Noud, Manistee, Michigan; James
William O’Hara, Cincinnati, Ohio; Terence James
O’Neill, Waterbury, Connecticut; John Francis O’Con-
nell, Chicago, Illinois; Francis Maurice O’Hearn,
Slater, Missouri; Vincent DePaul Ryan, Bay City,
Michigan; Clarence Charles Stueckle, South Bend,
Indiana; Basil Joseph Soisson, Connellsville, Pennsy-
lvania; L.eo Albert Schumacher, South Bend, Indiana;
Samuel Paul Schwartz, Mishawaka, Indiana; Fernando
Hector Usera, Ponce, Porro Rico.
THE DEGREE OF PHARMACEUTICAL CHEM-
IST was conferred on Bonislaus Joseph Janowski,
South Bend, Indiana; Regidius Marion Kaczmarek,
Laporte, Indiana.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 257
THE DEGREE OF GRADUATE IN PHARMACY
was conferred on Edward John Fasenmeyer, New
Bethlehem, Pennsylvania; John Orley Foote, Salem,
South Dakota; Harry Bernard Tierney, Broken Bow,
Nebraska; Carl Edward Wilmes, Grand Rapids, Michi-
gan; James Michael Ware, Kewana, Indiana.
CERTIFICATES FOR THE SHORT PROGRAM
IN ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING were conferred
on Manuel Gurza, Jr., Guadalajara, Mexico; Joseph
Redmond O’Hanlon, Sherman, Texas; Francis Louis
Wentland, South Bend, Indiana; Walter Sydney Yund,
Helena, Montana; Ramon Garcia Rubio, Santi Spiritus,
Cuba.
CERTIFICATES FOR THE SHORT PROGRAM
IN MECHANICAL ENGINEERING were conferred
on Edwin Joseph Harvat, Livingston, Montana; Leon
Joseph Soisson, Norwalk, Ohio; Walter Sydney Yund,
Helena, Montana; Luis Fernando Sotomayor, Cuahute-
mos, Pachuca, Mexico; Charles Amador Gonzalez,
Huanuco, Peru, South America.
PRIZE MEDALS
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Program, Senior Year, and a
money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of. Mr. Henry
Quan in memory of his deceased father, was awarded
to WiittorTusepIrBurke, CJricagO7~Illineis.
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the class of
’77, for the best record for four years in the Civil En-
gineering program, was awarded to Augustin Gonzalez
Saravia, Durango, Mexico.
*

4
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by
the Honorable William P. Breen, of the class of ’77,
was awarded to-Simea-^feile-Twiniagrd&ewHng--Gfeen,
Ohio.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal,, presented by
Honorable P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
JolrnH^UxH-^	* 11
The Meehan Gold Medal, the gift of Mrs.l Eleanor
Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, for the best essay .
in English (Senior), was awarded to -Stmun—Ercile—*
Twining, Bowling Gre
as follows:


ze-Dollars for Debating w©*k was awarded n
<2.	b t	b	__ \)
Thirty dollars} to William Joseph Milroy, V
Illinois. Twenty-fi-ve dollars to Simon - ^**5
Chatsworth, Illinois.
Ercile Twining, Bowling Green, Ohio. Ten dollars to
hn 'MeersmanJ”'M oline, Illinois-;—Ten—dollars
toHames-ToserriT Sta-ck, Springfield,-Illinois.
Ten dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented by
Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the class of ’89, was awarded
to Alfred John Brown, Portland, Oregon.
Ten dollars in Gold for Sophomore Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the class of ’91, was
certain.
Ten dollars in Gold for Freshman Oratory, pre-’
sented by Mr. Hugh O’Neill, of the class of ’91, was
awarded >to Jeremiah-PatTic^nagerty, Bostony Massd-
chusetts.	ryv	w
PREPARATORY SCHOOL
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, First Course,
was awarded to Kenneth.......Eug cue—Wright^—Ghicagoy
Illinois..	Tx/\(
0	7
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 259
The Gold Medal for Christian Doctrine, Second
Course, was awarded to John Conrad W-it-tenberg,
Piaevill@5-AVestoVirgnria.
The Mason Medal, donated by Mr. George Mason,
of Chicago, to the student in the preparatory school
whose scholastic record has been the best during the
school year was conferred on Joaquin Emilio Viso,
Huanuco, Porto-Ricp,-	to- •—k
The Commercial Medal given to the student who has
attained the best record in Commercial subjects for
the school year was awarded to-Edward James Monroef
F rack v ilteHPennsylvania.
YU
The Joseph A. Lyons Gold Medal for Elocution is
awarded to ThnitotoU-to i igh I a n gh 1 i n , Mi I wa 11 kpp r
\ViBcrnTSiTi.
I'	M
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preparatory Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Clement C. Mitchell of the class of ’04,
was awarded to Joseph Stnn-istetts-Korbyznskiy-Ghieago, •
Illinois.	\
The O’Brien Gold Medal for the best record in Pre-
paratory Latin, the gift of the Rev. Terence A. O’Brien
of Chicago, was awarded to Frank" Aloysius Brown,
CcmkbiTT-MidhigftttT—*
Commercial High School Diplomas were awarded
to Francis Fitzgerald Keefe, Raub, Indiana; Charles
Norton, Anderson, Indiana; Irving John Witt, Newman
Grove, Nebraska.
Commercial Diplomas were awarded to William
George Frawley, Deadwood, South Dakota; Edward
James Monroe, Frankville. Pennsylvania.
ft
1
I*
H
r'
V
V
>?
to

r
i*?

260
BULLETIN OF THE
INDEX
Accounting, Courses in. ... .189 Civil Engineering, The
Administration Building. . . 12 Department of..............'. 74
Admission to the Colleges, Civil Engineering, Courses
20, 63 in...................................................131
Advanced Standing.....21, 107 Civil, Government, Courses
Alumni Association, Offi-	in.....................204
cers...................249	Classics, The Department
Anatomy, Courses in....... 115 of............................. 46
Architecture, The College Clubs, Local........................250
of..................... 96	COLLEGES:
Architecture, Courses in. .. .115 College of Arts and
Arts and Letters, The Col-	Letters.................. 39
lege of................ 39	College of Architecture. .	96
Astronomy, Courses	in....121	College of Engineering...	70
Athletics...............18,	32 College of Law.................106
Bachelors’ Degrees......... 23	College of Science  51
Bacteriology, Course	in....122	Commerce, Department of...	45
Biology, Program in........ 62	Commercial High School. . .215
Biological Laboratories.... 52	Commencement.................253
Board of Trustees........... 4	Concerts and Lectures.........33
Board and Lodging.... 36, 223	Corby Hall................... 16
Botany, Course in..........123	Courses of Instruction 114, 204
Botanical Laboratories.... 53 -Debating Prize................. 30
Breen Medal. .............. 29	Degrees...............23,	253
Brownson Hall.............. 17	Directory of the University.	2
Buildings...............13,	19 Directors of Halls............. 11
Calendar.................... 3	Discipline................... 30
Carroll Scholarship.........27	Doctor of Philosophy,
Carroll Hall............... 17	The Degree of.......... 25
Charter.................... 12	Dormitories...........16,	17.
Chemical Engineering,	Drawing, Courses in. . 139,
The Department of... 89	142, 204
Chemical Laboratories.. 15, 55 Economics, The Depart-
Chemistry, The Depart-	ment of.................. 48
ment of............... 62	Economics, Courses in......185
Chemistry, Courses in.....125	Elocution, Courses in......148
Christian Doctrine,	Elocution Medals............. 30
Courses in........131, 204 Electrical Engineering,
Church, The................ 13	The Department of... . 82
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME 261
Electrical Engineering,
Courses in................145
Engineering Hall.......... 15
Engineering, The College
of.................... 70
English, Courses in.	... 150, 205
Entrance Requirements..
22, 42, 59, 73, 98
Executive Officers......... 5
Expenses.............. 36,	223
Faculty.................6,	196
Ford Scholarship.......... 27
French, Courses in. . . .
190, 191, 206
Geology, Courses in........152
German, Courses in.... 154, 208
Graduate Courses.......
125, 130, 151, 155, 158,
160, 184, 189
Grammar School............219
Greek, Courses in.....155, 208
Gymnasium................. 18
Halls, Directors of....... 11
History and Economics
The Department of... . 48
History, Courses in.... 156, 209
Historical Sketch of the
University........... 11
Honors and Prizes.....29, 257
Hospital............*..... 18
Infirmary................. 18
Instruction, Courses of. .114, 204
Instruction, System of. 19, 108
Instructors in the Prepar-
atory School......(. . 196
Italian, Courses in.......192
Johnson Scholarship....... 27
Journalism, The Depart-
ment of............... 44
Journalism, The Course in.. 159
Laboratories..........
52, 53, 55, 57, 77
Laboratory Fees. . . .60, 72, 199
Latin, Courses in....160, 210
Law, The College of......106
Law, Courses in..........113
Lectures and Concerts'... 33
Letters, The Department
of.................. 47
Library, The Main........ 13
Libraries, Department..
■	. 41, 52, 54, 81, 110
List of Students.........228
Lodging, Board and... .36, 223
Local Clubs..............250
Martin McCue Medal....... 29
Mason Medal.............. 28
Masters’ Degrees......... 24
Mathematics, Courses in
161, 211
Meehan Medal............. 28
Mechanical Engineering,
The Department of... . 76
Mechanical Engineering,
Courses in...............163
Metallurgy, Courses in...169
Microscopy, Courses in. . . .171
Military.................225
Minims, The School for.. . .220
Mining Engineering, The
Department of........ 87
Mining Engineering,
Course in................170
Museum................... 14
Music, Courses in........171
Observatory.............. 16
Officers of tlie University. . 5
Oratory, Courses in......148
Patrick O’Brien Scholar-
ship ............... 27
Pharmacy, The Depart-
ment of.................. 63
Pharmacy, Courses in.....174
Philosophy, Courses	in...177
262
BULLETIN OF THE
Physical Laboratories....... 57
Physics, Courses in.........182
Physiology, Courses in......184
Political Science, Courses
in.....................185
Politics, Courses in........187
Polish, Courses in...........189
Portuguese, Courses in......192
Preparatory School..........195
Prizes...................28, 257
Professors...............6, 196
Programs of Studies........
46,	47,	48,	49,	50,
65,	66,	67,	68,	69,
90,	91,	92,	93,	94,
95,	103, 104, 105,
200, 201, 202, 203, 217
Provencal Courses in......193
Psychology, Courses in....177
Psychological Laboratory... 41
Quan Medal.................28
Regulations Governing
Admission to the
Colleges.............. 20
Romance Languages,
Courses in............190
Scholarships.............. 26
Science Hall.............. 14
Science, The College of... . 51
Science, Program of
General............... 61
Science, Courses in Ele-
mentary...............213
SHORT PROGRAMS IN:
Architecture............102
Commerce.................45
Electrical Engineering.... 86
Mechanical Engineering. . 81
Shopwork, Courses in.......168
Sociology, Courses in......188
Societies..........35, 112, 221
Sorin Hall................ 16
Spanish, Courses in........191
Special Students.......26, 104
St. Joseph Hall........... 17
Surveying.................131
System of Instruction... 19, 109
Title (Legal) of the Uni-
versity .............. 12
Theatre, The University. . . 13
Trustees, Board of......... 4
Tuition Fees...........36, 223
Walsh Hall................ 16
Washington Hall........... 14
Zoology, Courses in........193
It is desired that every graduate receive a copy of the
Bulletin. The Faculty will therefore consider it a favor
to be notified in case an Alumnus changes his Address.
On application to the President, Bulletins will foe
sent to all who are interested in the work of the Uni-
versity.	:	/.	.