Series IX.
Number I.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY AT NOTRE DAME
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JULY, 1913
Entered at the Postoffice, Notre Dame, Indiana, as second-class matter, July 17, 1905
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address:
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
NOTR# DAML, INDIANA.
The STUDENTS—Address:
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hall in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffi.ee, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is 41 degrees, 43
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable
for a healthful climate where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great fatigue or
danger to health.
NOTE.
The addresses appearing in this bulletin were
delivered at the first annual banquet of the Notre Dame
School of Journalism, at the Oliver Hotel, South Bend,.
Ind., June io, 1913. The reader will note, in these speeches,
several references to President Cavanaugh’s address, which,
though a valuable one, was not committed to writing and
is therefore not available for publication.
The Journalist and Ideals.
By R. M. Hutchinson.
Associate Editor of the South Bend Tribune.
IT seems to ‘me this gathering of the first class in
journalism in Notre Dame university is an occasion
of mutual congratulation. I think you young men are
to be congratulated because by matriculatiing in this
course in journalism you have indicated you are am-
bitious to be moulders of the thoughts of your fellow
men; you are desirous of being leaders of men in the
field of thought and daily endeavor. You have indicated
your present intention at least of following newspaper
work as a profession. You have shown that you are
not afraid of the terrific strain it will put upon you;
its long, wearisome grind and inadequate remuneration
have not deterred you. You are to be congratulated
that you are not looking for “flowery beds of ease”
but places of ceaseless labor where you may do good
for your fellow man.
Then it is a matter of congratulation to the newspaper
fraternity that you twenty young men have the desire
and intention of joining its ranks. With these qualifica-
tions which you have shown your acquisition to the
fourth estate can not but improve its personnel. There
is yet another reason why the newspaper fraternity
is to be congratulated.
Bather Cavanaugh, when he spoke to you a short
while ago, referred to the ideals which have been im-
pressed upon you here in this institution. I tell you,
6
bulletin or THE
young men, the newspaper fraternity needs and welcomes
young men who have high ideals of right and wrong;
men who appreciate and understand the “eternal
verities” of life. When political and economic and
social problems are studied by men who have had
inculcated in their minds and souls, during their most
plastic period, such truths as I know have been impressed
upon you at Notre Dame, the chance that these problems
will be solved aright and for the greatest good to
humanity is thereby greatly increased.
You will find these ideals worth cherishing, as Father
Cavanaugh has admonished you. You will find them
of incalculable value to you when you plunge into
actual newspaper work and the danger of lapsing into
skepticism comes. For this danger will come. Of it
T. DeWitt Talmage said:
“ One of the greatest trials of the newspaper profession
is that its members are compelled to see more of the
shams of the world than any other profession. Through
the newspaper office, day after day comes all the wicked-
ness of the world; all the vanities that want to be repaid ;
all the mistakes that want to be corrected; all the
speakers who want to be thought eloquent; all the
meanness that wants to get its wares noticed gratis
in the editorial columns to escape the tax of the advertis-
ing columns; all the men who want to be set right who
never were right; all the crack-brained philosophers
with their stories as long as their hair and as gloomy
as their finger nails in mourning because bereft of soap;—
all the bores who come to stay five minutes and talk
five hours.
“Through the editorial and reportorial rooms all the
follies and shams of the world are seen day after day,
and the temptation is to believe neither God, man nor
woman. It is no surprise to me that in this profession

UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
7
there are some skeptical men; I only wonder that
journalists believe anything.”
These men who have spent years in the business
will join me in saying to you that that is a pretty good
pen picture of the experiences which are in store for
you. And I say it is a matter of congratulation to the
profession that you who are coming to it have been well
grounded in good and holy things; well founded in
general knowledge.
In closing I want to leave with you a motto for a
newspaper. It is that set up by the late Joseph Pulitzer
when he founded the New York World. It is a high ideal;
not always approximated but worthy of selection as a
pole star for would-be journalists. This motto holds
that a newspaper should be:
An institution that should always fight for progress
and reform, never tolerate injustice or corruption, always
fight demagogues of all parties, never belong to any party,
always oppose privileged classes and public plunderers,
never lack sympathy with the poor, always remain devoted
io the public welfare, never be satisfied with merely printing
news, always be drastically independent, never be afraid
to attack wrong, whether by predatory plutocracy or preda-
tory poverty.
8
BULLETIN OB THE
The Old Journalism and the New.
By A. C. Keiber.
Editor of the Terre Haute Tribune.
YOU are now at the end of the first year of your
four year term in Journalism and have learned
quite a little in a general way regarding the
necessary requirements of an efficient newspaper man,
but as long as you live you will never catch up with
the advancement made by our leading newspapers.
Bvery day you live after you have been graduated and
advanced to the highest position in a newspaper office
you will learn of something new, so do not cherish the
idea that when you have finished your course here
you are competent to start at the top. You will find
that your newspaper education will come by starting
at the beginning in a lowly position and working your
own way through the different departments so that
when you are promoted to the head of a department
and then to the position of publisher of a paper you
will be in a position to know what you are doing when
you give out your instructions.
Over thirty years ago the newspaper I started with
organized a company with Si0,000 capital. They
installed a Hoe four cylinder press that printed one side-
of the paper at a time. The forms containing the type
were hoisted hand over hand and clamped on the press.
The paper was fed in single sheets by young men.
We would print the inside in the forenoon and in the
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	9
afternoon print the different completed editions. It
was necessary for some one to take the papers from the
fly and keep them straightened out, all laid the same
way on one large pile. This is where I came in and where
I started on my thirty years’ journey through the
newspaper field. We had no folder so the four page,
six column paper was handed over to the carriers
and newsboys to do their own folding, and the packages
for nearby towns were wrapped unfolded, labeled,
and placed in a large push-cart with myself at the pro-
pelling end, headed for the depot. In those days our
bundles to agents in outside towns were carried in the
baggage car and the compensation was a few extra
copies of the paper for the baggageman.
When I was not busy straightening out papers or
furnishing motive power for the push-cart, I would
be filling in as feeder on the press, washing the windows,
or labelling single wrappers with a Dick’s mailer. For
this light work I was allowed to depart each Saturday
night with three dollars of the company’s money.
All of the newsboys and carriers came to the office
direct for their papers and paid cash for them. The
company received its full fifty cents per hundred for
all papers sold in the office each night. This system
required nd bookkeeping. We paid seven cents per
pound for white paper and set type by hand. The
paper I refer to was one of the first one cent papers
in the country and today has over 160,000 daily circu-
lation with net earnings in excess of 8300,000 yearly,
and worth 82,000,000.
This plant today sets its type by typesetting machines,
stereotypes all of its forms and uses five large perfecting
presses, printing and folding 180,000 sixteen-page
papers per hour. One of the big tasks confronting the
publisher today is the making of new contracts with
IO
BUWXriN OB TH#
the different unions connected with the business.
They are usually long drawn out affairs and take up
considerable time. As soon as you settle with the
printers, the contract with the pressmen has expired.
Then the stereotypers, mailers, engravers and so forth
are to be dealt with. Not long ago I was one of four
publishers who met with the mailers’ union for con-
sideration of a new scale. One of their propositions was
that we order that the high school boys who worked
after school tieing up the bundles be discharged from that
duty and union mailers substituted. Likewise there was
a demand for a big increase in pay and so forth. This
session was unusually prolonged and < we could not
get together, due mostly to the strong protest I was
making. The mailers finally sent for one of their national
officers and he met with us. At the outset he remon-
strated vigorously, demanding to know why I objected
to allowing the men to earn a living wage. I waited
patiently until he had finished. I first agreed with every-
thing he said relative to the wages his men should be
earning and went further by stating that they were
such an intelligent set of men that I knew they could
earn even more money if given the opportunity. But
when they asked us to pay them a man’s wages to do
a boy’s work the trouble was with their occupation.
I proved to them that their trade could be learned in
a week’s time by a schoolboy and that for three dollars
per week I had done what they were asking eighteen
dollars for. The result was a good contract for the
publishers.	'
The public never kills a newspaper. The unsuccessful
newspaper is killed in its own office. One of my large
experiences along these lines happened a little over a
year ago. A publisher called me to a distant city and
set forth how he had prepared a statement for the mil-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
II
lionaire owner that another two hundred thousand or
three hundred thousand dollars would place the paper
within its income. He purchased the paper for one
hundred and fifty thousand dollars, making a small
profit, and had two hundred and fifty thousand dollars
more in the paper when the statement was furnished
him showing a deficit of one hundred thousand dollars-
yearly. The statement made him very sick. The
atmosphere in the region of his feet became icy cold,
and climbed clear up to his pocketbook, and froze it
up completely. The management was immediately
notified that the checks to cover the weekly deficit
would no longer continue and that the paper must be
sold or a receiver appointed. There were only sufficient
funds on hand to meet about two more pay rolls when
it would be all over. I had previously advised the young
publisher that he was making a mistake in his man-
agement, but with his three years' experience on a small
daily he knew differently and refused to consider my
advice to operate the property within its income and
then build, as he was trying to force the paper too
fast and was not even spending his money in a di-
rection that would bring him any return. The result
of our conference was a visit to the owner. The outcome
was that I took charge of the paper that very morning.
It was three a.m., when I agreed to show him what could
be done. I arrived at the office about ten a.m., and
called for the books. I looked over the earnings and
found them to be about six thousand dollars per week.
I then ascertained the expenses and discovered that
eight thousand dollars per week was required to earn
six thousand dollars.
The dilemma of the paper reminded me of the sworn
testimony of a switchman at the trial of the Ravenna
wreck. The attorney asked Pat to make a statement:
12
bulletin of ths
‘"Well” says Pat, “I was standing right here looking
down the track this way when I saw a train coming
helly-te-hoot. I turned around and saw another train
coming this way helly-te-hoot on the same track.”
“Sez I to myself, Pat this is a diwle of a way to
railroad.”
My next move was to discharge the young manager
and two of the editors before calling in the heads of all of
the departments. I took them all into my confidence
and advised them of the situation. Further I requested
an immediate statement of what it was costing each
department and what each could do in cutting expenses
without reducing the efficiency or merit of the paper
or the revenues. I ordered the paper cut from twelve
to ten pages and figured out the amount each department
should cost. This figure was given to the different
managers to spend as they saw fit. The press room
was composed of all union men and when the pressman
was ordered to cut from two hundred and fifty-eight
dollars per week to one hundred and fifteen dollars
you can imagine his interview with me along the line
of “impossibilities.” They were using two presses, so
under union rules the pressman was doing no work
other than supervision of the pressroom, which rule
prevails when no more than one press is working.
I ordered one press cut off, which put the pressman
back on the job in active work, and by re-arranging
the editions, moving up the time a little, we succeeded
in getting out on time and handling the entire output
with one press. Before the day was over, I had two
thousand dollars per week sliced from the expenses
and the paper was within its income. The result was that
from a ten thousand dollars loss in February we turned
in a profit of thirty-seven hundred in March. The paper
was carried to the following June without any money
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME ‘	13
being advanced. When the creditors were shown that
the property was within its income, we had little trouble
in having them accept six months notes amounting to
over fifty thousand dollars. The paper was sold last
fall and is now a live, wide-awake, hustling newspaper
with forty thousand circulation. This is one experience
which will show you that there is no such a word as
“fail.” Never get discouraged, never get “blue”,
never give up and above all, never worry. The time
when everything seems to be breaking against you
is the time you will need all of your energy and pluck
to bring out what there is in you. As you travel through
life you will not find the going all to your liking.
You will find that the successful man is always on the
job. There is a story told of one of our multi-millionaires
who impressed this point upon his young son. He
engaged in a game of checkers with the young man
and when he was not looking took away some of his
“ men.” The young man discovered what had been done
'and complained to his father. The answer was:
“ My boy, that is the way the game of business is
played. The minute you turn your mind away or
turn your head from your business your competitor
comes along and takes advantage of your oversight.
A successful newspaperman must have brains. He is
put to severe tests many times each day. He must be
resourceful whether he is on a paper which is master
in its field, or the little paper struggling for recognition.
I was connected with a paper at one time having fifteen
thousand circulation. Two other papers in the field
claimed twenty thousand each. I was sure that our
paper had more circulation than the other papers
that claimed more. So, not to compete with them on
a circulation basis, we decided to sell our space on the
basis of results. In other words we tried to be honest
14
BULLETIN OF THB
with, the advertiser, but it was a difficult undertaking.
I remember one time distinctly that the advertiser
would not believe me until I lied to him. I was selling
advertising at the time. The advertiser wanted to know
our circulation. I told him we were selling our space
on the basis of results obtained and had fixed our rates
accordingly, and that was why the rate was higher
than the rates of the papers claiming twenty thousand
circulation, and why we made no circulation claim.
I told him his request for circulation statement resulted
from force of habit and that he would not believe me
if I told him. He said he would. I-said our circulation
was ninety thousand. He looked at me in astonish-
ment, smiled, said “ It’s usuless to try to beat these
newspaper fellows”, and signed his contract without
further discussion. Of course he knew I said ninety
thousand simply to make my point, that he would not
believe me.
One of the trying-out tests of newspaper writers
desiring a position on the New York Sun years ago
was to send the applicant if he was a stranger, seeking
a position, to write up Trinity steeple. That would
be the last heard of him. But one young man, a reporter
on the paper I started with, went to New York. He
called on the Sun and received the usual assignment.
The young man’s article was published and he made
large salaries thereafter as a space writer on' the
New York papers. He surprised the editor with a
remarkably beautiful descriptive article, how he looked
up the janitor, how he mounted the steeple, and what
he saw from the steeple. The newspapers of today
are working more along the lines of publishing all of
the news that is fit to print. They are becoming more
accurate. They are editing the advertising columns
and’ keeping them clean. They are demanding truthful
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
15
■statements. The growing tendency is for cleaner
newspapers. The day of the so-called yellow papers is
past. The result of all this is a demand for clean, well
'educated young men. The great colleges have recog-
nized this and have established courses in journalism.
When I learned that Dr. Max Pam had endowed a
course of Journalism for Notre Dame under the leader-
ship of the brilliant Father Cavanaugh, I made haste
to arrange for my son and nephew to take the course
and I want to congratulate Dr. Max Pam and Father
Cavanaugh for their great success in securing such
a splendid class of young men to turn over to us as
future publishers.
Some of the older school of newspaper men have
been inclined to look with suspicion on the new branch
of taught journalism. Some have been disposed to
deride the idea and to claim that the trained jour-
nalist comes only out of the school of hard knocks and
actual experience. To me, however, the teaching of
journalism is as logical as any other educational
endeavor. Certain it is that the student can be given '
some fundamental ideas of the profession. He can be
grounded in the basic principles of newspaper work
.and the art of writing just as effectively as he can in
the principles of law or medicine or engineering. Had
the profession no such scientific status it would be a
reflection indeed on the illustrious men who have
given their lives to it and who have made it the power
which it is in the affairs of the world. Of course success
depends a good deal on the individual, just as it does
in all other lines of human endeavor. Some are more
apt, some acquire an effective style which commends
their services to a publisher, some take more and more
from life in their daily experiences achieving a finer
mastery of the profession than do others who probably
i6
BULLETIN OB
started on an equal basis. From Notre Dame to the
pinnacle of success in the newspaper profession is a long
journey, but the rewards are great. No other profession
is so fraught with human interest, no other profession
takes such a fascinating hold upon its members, and
assuredly no other profession compares with it as a
mentor on the advance of civilization. The power of
the press has been discussed by men more able than
myself. Here it is sufficient to say that journalism
offers a fair field with no favors, that hard work is the
portal to its success as a life work, and that if Notre
Dame adds to the profession such competent men as
she has given to other vocations the public’s debt
to her will be great indeed.
s
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	17
Journalism and the Colleges.
By C. N. Bassett.
Of the South Bend News-Times.
THE story has been so completely told from the
side of experience that it is hardly necessary to
issue another edition: but I want to make over
one form to express my appreciation of the privilege
granted me this evening of being placed in personal
association with a new era in journalism, an era which
promises much for the elevation of the standards of
the vocation I have followed for forty years and which
I love for the motives that actuate it and for the oppor-
tunities it gives. To you it may seem that my forty
years of experience give me a great advantage over you,
and in a qualified sense they do; but they are only
comparatively what they seem, and perhaps no 'more
significant to me than the opportunity that has been
made possible for you by the co-operation of Dr. Pam
and the University of Notre Dame. I have gained the
experience which in a degree you must have to give
you the efficiency that brings success, and you are
acquiring the theory which I so sadly lacked in my
earlier years at the newspaper desk and which can never
be so fully deduced from experience as not to leave
something lacking. When the two are united in one
person with the adaptability which makes a man
fit into his calling as the hand fits into the glove, and
i8
BULLETIN OF THF
be allied with the ambition and industry essential to
the successful pursuit of any calling, then will we
have the perfect product, as perfect as it is possible for
a human product to be. As a graduate of the school
of hard knocks possibly I appreciate the importance
of this union more keenly than you do, and perhaps
I realize a little more fully than you the value of the
opportunity laid before you. And yet, when I look
about me I see your eyes shining with the eagerness of
ambition, your faces flushed with the zealousness of
an earnest purpose, and other signs of an intelligent
comprehension of the advantages you are enjoying.
These advantages, however, do not belong solely
to you. They are shared by the great industry of which
you aspire to become a part. The resources of the
editorial and news rooms have been and still are too
scant. A popular superstition has grown up that
newspaper men, as they still prefer to call themselves,
are born, not made, and that in some inscrutable way
they are predestined and pre-equipped for their work.
Any cub could shatter this superstition if he cared to,
but why dispel the glamor that forms an atmosphere
for the least understood of all the brainy callings?
. Figuratively speaking, the editorial room and the
news room must go into the highways and byways for
their reinforcements, and it is a peculiarity of the
profession, or vocation, as Father Cavanaugh prefers
to call it, that many who would not presume to try to
force their way into the ranks of any of the learned
professions feel that they have a call, almost divine,
to journalism. It is so fascinating, and it looks so easy.
But many are called and few are chosen. It is only
by a tedious process of elimination that a newspaper
staff is organized, and then it lacks the permanency of
other organizations. That is why I say the advantages
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
19
you are enjoying as members of this class do not belong
solely to you. They are shared by the newspapers in
that to the .extent such schools as yours are established
and properly conducted they will have a source of supply
on which to drain at their need. And their need is great,
for there are few vocations, in which, in proportion
to the number employed, there are so many misfits.
The schools are about to do, however, what the cub
has been deterred from by professional pride. They are
throwing open the door of the sanctum, that inner
holy of holies where angels—and sometimes rightly—
fear to tread. They are revealing secrets that have been
carefully guarded from the world since the time of
Gutenberg. They are making of this mysterious, almost
uncanny calling a common, every-day vocation. They
are stripping the veil from the temple.
We should shudder at this, but for some reason
we don’t. We should view with alarm this encroachment
upon the reserves of the exclusive land, but we 'are not
taking that point of view. If we were true to our tradi-
tions we should resent the presumption that a newspaper
man can be made, but to our own surprise we feel no
resentment. Something must have happened to us.
We used not to feel this way. Time was when we
derided the thought or possibility of any sufficient
preparation for newspaper work outside of the college
of hard knocks. What has happened is this. We have
changed our minds and conditions have changed. The
demands upon the newspaper have increased. The call
is for greater efficiency, and to meet it the newspaper
must have more dependable resources. The process
of picking from the masses and trying for adaptability
and competency, though it has produced marvelous
results, is too slow and uncertain for the period. The
choice and preparation must be anticipated. The news-
20
BULr^TlN OB THB
paper is looking for dressed material and the resources
of the schools will be taxed to supply it.
You members of the class are getting your ground-
work. You are laying the foundation of equipment and
efficiency. It is so broad in its scope that when you come
to take your place at the editorial desk and taste its
rewards and punishments and find it uncongenial your
time has not been wasted. Preparation for newspaper
work will be found useful and applicable in almost
any other line of endeavor. You have a foundation
broad enough and deep enough to build upon it the
superstructure that will please you best.
Journalism is a calling that asks for the best in man-
kind and womankind as well as in mental preparation
and physical equipment. It calls for the highest reaches
in character and conscience. The medium through
which it works is as truly a missionary of civilization
and Christianity as the messenger sent to the heathen
in lands of darkness to bring them to the feet of Jesus
Christ. There is no class of workers in the world that
works less for the dollar that is in it or more for the good
they can do than the newspaper men. Their labor is
largely a labor of love. There are yellow ones among
us, but they are rapidly disappearing. The atmosphere
of the well-regulated newspaper office is too rare for
them to breathe. We are purifying ourselves and
striving to lift the world to higher levels.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	21
Our Future.
By Harry B. Scott.
Freshman in the School of Journalism.
ALTHOUGH this has been our first year, it has
indeed been a bright first year, one in which
we have accomplished things, one in which every
man has eagerly taken advantage of the opportunities
so lavishly offered at Notre Dame for the demonstra-
tion of ability. We are the nucleus of a new college
of America’s greatest Catholic University, and it is a
matter for congratulation that there has been mani-
fested in our associations this year the fellowship, the
character, the stuff that goes into the making of suc-
cessful journalists. But while it is well enough to dwell
on the past and the present, it is better to give thought
to the future, so that, always having in mind that future
and its duties and responsibilities, we may build up'
character and store away knowledge in preparation
for glorious fulfilment of our own hopes and the hopes
of our school.
We have chosen one of the noblest professions in the
universe, one that brings with it, indeed, arduous
work,—but brings also the satisfying knowledge of
good accomplished. It is a profession calling more
than ever at this time for more than ordinary men,
with more than ordinary talents and virtues. We
realize, of course, that the college is not a machine
which will turn us out full-fledged journalists. No,.
22
bulletin of the
on the day of graduation we shall just be starting,
starting on a path of hard work, many obstacles, and
fierce temptations. Our business here in college is to
prepare ourselves that we may be able to work
untiringly, to overcome obstacles, and to meet with
the necessary power of resistance those temptations.
The college can only prepare us for the battlefield
of life.
There is no spot in the tapestry of life which is not
revealed to the journalist. He is the recorder of the
world’s work. He sees both sides of all life’s pictures.
Not every newspaper man is a journalist. There are
requirements to be satisfied before the title may justly
be claimed, and most important of all is character,—
good, staunch, loyal, Christian character.
The three cardinal virtues of journalism are honesty,
reliability, and plain common-sense. The possession
of these is a start on the highroad to Success, and it is
for the incorporation of these virtues into our character
that we must each of us labor. Nowhere can we better
accomplish this than at Notre Dame. Here we labor
not only for knowledge, but for character. We have
run the first lap of our college course with all strong
at the finish. Three more laps lie yet before us. Let
none give up the race, het us all perform welh our
present duties, constantly holding in mind the duties
of the future. Then in the after years, when we have
become the editors of the nation’s great newspapers
and are watching another generation spring up to take
our places, we shall not only feel the pride of being
sons of Notre Dame, but also the satisfaction of knowing
that Old Notre Dame is glad to point us out as hers
before the world.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
23
The College Man in Journalism.
By Eugene R. McBride.
Fresh-man in the School of Journalism.
THE establishment of so many schools for the
teaching of journalism has brought forth much
criticism from the press. It seems to be the
general belief among newspaper men of the old school
that journalism cannot be taught as law or medicine
is taught, but that it is a peculiar occupation which
must be learned from the bottom up as a newspaper
reporter. This is not wholly true. There are some things
about newspaper work that cannot be taught in a school
of course. No two newspapers are exactly alike in
general style and make-up. The differences, however,
are in details. The principles of correct journalism
are teachable at the university, and the college jour-
nalist should be able in a few weeks to make any nec-
essary adaptations to circumstances. Moreover, it
must be remembered that journalistic principles are not
the only things the student will learn. If he has applied
himself, he will have acquired at the time of graduation
something that the office-trained man often lacks,—
ability to go higher. The average reporter, working
hard and rising gradually, comes finally to a place
from which he cannot rise higher because of lack of
education. The college man who works equally hard
will never come to such a place' because he will have
24
BULLETIN OB THB
in handFthe key to open the highest office the pro-
fession can offer. Just as easily as the skilled mechanic
rises over the unskilled will the trained journalist
rise over the untrained.
Time was when lawyers were scarce—that was long,
ago, of course,—and law was learned in the office of a
practicing attorney, just as journalism is most often
learned today in the newspaper office. Now, however,
the self-taught lawyer is practically extinct, and school-
ing is required by law for the profession. The time is
not far distant when the newspaper man will be required
to measure up to the same standards. The successful
newspaper man of the future will be the college gradu-
ate. It is good to believe, so, at least. It is pleasing
to dream that some one of our number' will achieve
undying-* fame in the profession, and there is no reason
why that dream should not be worked into realization.
And if college men are to be the leaders in journalism
they should make use of the lessons learned in the
economics classes, use the greatest power on earth for
the ends of true reform, raise the American newspaper
to heights of usefulness as yet undreamed of, and give
the press a moral tone that will make it worthy the
following of the people. This is but an ideal, but it is
not an impossible ideal, and upon us, therefore, devolves
the responsibility of bringing the ideal to reality.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
25
The Class.
By Hugh V. Lacey.
Freshman in the School of Journalism.
FOR the benefit of those among you in whose
minds there may still linger the faintest shadow
of a doubt, who, having eyes, see not, and hav-
ing ears hear, yet fail to comprehend, I take this oppor-
tunity to call to your attention a fact which we
ourselves hold to be self-evident.
This class has drawn unto itself men from the whole
country. They have come from as far east as that well-
known center of culture, Penn Yan, from as far west
as fair Portland, and from as far south as Pat Hari’s
little town which needs no further eulogy. We have
also voluntary exiles from Rochester, Indianapolis,
Springfield, and even Pittsburgh. Now, modest as we
are we assert (the evidence is overwhelming, so why
deny it?) that into this class of journalists we have
collected the very choicest of the country’s sons. We are
modest; but if optimism were a grain of sand we’d
be the possessors of an unending stretch of seashore.
If confidence—an abiding faith in ourselves—would
move mountains, this class would cause an upheaval
of the universe. And as for enthusiasm and energy,
we feel that we have enough of that to make all the rest
of ’the energy and all the rest of the enthusiasm of all
the rest of the world appear as insignificant as—well
Cicero himself was once at a loss for words. Let us
26
BULLETIN OB THE
employ a familiar simile:—as inconsequential as the
lemon juice in circus lemonade.
We need all this optimism, this confidence, this
enthusiasm, for on us has devolved a heavy responsi-
bility. We are the nucleus around which the School of
Journalism of Notre Dame University must shape
itself. We are the pioneers. Just now we are about to
close our freshman year. One fourth of our college
course already lies behind us, but with it has passed
by the least of our labors. With each successive year
will our work become more exacting and more stren-
uous, and with each successive year must it become
also more meritorious,—for each coming September
will mark the advent of a new class whose members
will look to us to blaze with our achievements the
highroad which they are to follow, and who will strive
to live up to the traditions which we shall leave behind.
This, our first year, has been but an outlining of the
course, a mere hint of what is yet to be. But we have
confidence in Notre Dane, confidence in what she shall
give us, confidence in the men who are behind her,
and in those who have pledged her their support.
This confidence is founded on a firm base, and has
long been justified. We have, most of us, read the
Alumni Number of our Scholastic, and noted therein
the loyal protestations of an affection that never dies
expressed by men who were graduated from here long
ago, whose mettle has already been tested, and who
have made good. Their work and their words form
our covenant. To her sons engaged in every honorable
occupation in life, from the ball-fields of the major
leagues to the Senate chambers of the nation Notre
Dame points with pride. But with still greater pride do
these athletes and these solons point back to Notre Dame.
So we, too, hope one day to be enrolled among the sons
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
27
of old Notre Dame. And when we have at last finished
our course here and are gone out, amply prepared as
we know we shall be to meet whatever demands may
be made upon us in our chosen profession, and in the
other vital affairs of life as well, we ask no better boon
than to be able to say proudly that we are the first
of our kind to be sent out from Notre Dame, bearing
the stamp of her approval; and we pray for nothing
more than that we may so live that Notre Dame may
always be honored in us as her sons.
28
BULUSTIN OP THp
The School at Notre Dame.
By John M. Coonpy. •
CICBRO said that no one but a good man can be
a good orator, and I think the real newspaper
men present will agree with me that it is equally
true to say that no one but a good man can become a
good journalist. Sometimes by the-words, “a good
man,” is meant a stout fellow whose fists are held in
merited respect; sometimes is meant one whose mental
power and habits fit him to fill, say, any position in a
great organization; sometimes again is meant one who
scrupulously obeys his conscience in all pertaining to the
moral law. Under all of these interpretations, the jour-
nalist must measure up to the standard of a “good
man.” He must be strong physically to withstand
the strain of his most arduous occupation; he must
have a mind that would make him valuable in any
calling,- a mind that is quick and sure and compre-
hensive and- discriminating and retentive and versatile
and impregnated with logic; he must be a moral man,
not only in that negative way in which even many
weak men are good simply because they are not bad;
but he must know the moral law, and believe in it and
hold to it and defend it on all occasions and inculcate
it courageously and continually.
A profession that demands such qualifications in
its members is certainly one to cover those members
with honor and one well fitted to inspire with a lofty
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	29
aim and abounding hope the young men who look
forward to the time when they too will win name and
fame in its justly distinguished ranks. The various
State Press associations would make better State
legislatures than any such bodies elected' within the
last half century, and both houses of our national
Congress would be improved by having in their member-
ship a larger proportion of newspaper men. President
Wilson, who seems remarkably free from the trammels
of partisanship, is wisely recruiting our diplomatic
service largely from the ranks of publicists and
writers.
But it is not the glories and rewards of journalism
that require thought of those whose ‘hats are in the
ring’ already, nor is the question up, whether a course
of journalism at college will equip one for a fuller
measure of success in the profession than otherwise
obtainable: the pertinent question is, how shall we derive
from such course the benefits we seek; and the answer
to that question will at once satisfy skeptics as to the
value of- this course of study, and will throw even for
us such light upon the field as will make us gather
intelligently its choisest fruits. How then will a college
course improve our chances of success? Bet us try
to find an answer to this question.
Obviously, if the School of Journalism is to give
the same training as the newspapers have been giving,
and to give this training in the same way as the news-
papers have been giving it, then there is little reason
for the establishment of such schools. I say little reason,
for still there would be some reason, as such schools
, would afford the newspapers a supply of trained men,
and, as we know, the modern newspaper wants trained
men: it is too busy an institution to engage willingly
in training up its own .employes. Of course, the school
30
BJJWSTIN OF THB
training cannot produce a completely equipped, practical
newspaper man just as all the drilling and maneuvering
in the world cannot make. the veteran:—it takes the
singeing flame of battle to do that. Nevertheless, who
shall say that the preliminary training of the soldier is
without value? The contrast between our regular army
men and our militia is a contrast between ample training
and deficient training. A similar contrast is^ found
in every field between the trained and the untrained—
in the professions, in business, in manufacture, even
in sports.
We may note, too, that the full preparation of the
soldier is made by training and equipment. The first
is concerned with his health, his strength, his power
of endurance, his tactical skill, his obedience, his loyalty,
his ‘esprit de corps’; the latter-embraces his suitable
clothing, accoutrement, weapons, rations and the like;
and, whilst both training and equipment are necessary,
it is readily to be seen that training is the more impor-
tant; for, whilst the trained soldier may be equipped
by a competent government in a day, to convert the
best equipped raw recruit into a trained soldier
requires many a day indeed. Now, similarly, in the
education of a journalist, we have again training and
equipment, which latter is the special knowledge
required, some of which is distinctly technical, and
of these two we hold at Notre Dame that training
is the - more important. The trained mind quickly
acquires technical knowledge, but technical knowledge
cannot be depended upon to train the mind. A general
principle will cover a number of particular cases; it
is better to know it than any one case coming under
it, and it is learned more quickly than can be all of
these cases together. A trained athlete who can clear
twenty feet in a broad jump can leap equally well
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
31
over a wet spot in the road or over a stream or over
a yawning chasm if within his limit, and it is by no
means necessary to train him from the beginning in the
practical, if dangerous work, of leaping chasms of
twenty feet. This is not to despise technical know-
ledge,—not at all: and much of it can be acquired
even in school by study and practice, and we try to
gain all of it we can with true economy of our time
and efforts: but we try hardest of all to do those things
which must be done, and which can be done only with
the greatest difficulty when once we are taken up in
the rush of newspaper work,—if indeed we can count
upon the time and the opportunity to do them then at
all.
Now, of course we are not thinking here only of
knowledge. Even you Freshmen do not think you will
know more after four years in College than a veteran
after forty years in a newspaper office. And still you
ought to know more that will be useful after four
years in College than you should have known after four
years even in a newspaper office. True, your knowledge
may be more theoretical, but it will be wider and deeper
and more varied and better selected and better sys-
tematized, and will be readily made practical with
industry and good will on your part. No, it is not
. from the professional knowledge you will acquire in
College that you expect later to profit most,—though
I repeat, the more of such knowledge you acquire
economically the better for you,—but it is from what
I have been calling ‘training.’
And now I shall put off for still another moment
the consideration of what that training is, to remark
that it is only once in life that it can be had, and that
for us that time is the present; and one quarter of
our opportunity has already passed from us forever.
32
buij^tin of the;
There is a homely adage that we cannot ‘ teach the old
horse new tricks’, and Scripture, from the opposite
view, tells us that ‘ as the twig is bent so will the tree
incline’, and I have had old newspaper men to tell me
how grievously they suffered in their careers from lack
of early training, and how it was too late for them to
make good the lack when they began to realize and
deplore it-. Youth is the time for .training, though it
may go on with a beautiful symmetry and vigor through
later life; but unless begun in youth, I think it only
a desperate hope that it will ever be had.
But what, at last, is this training? I have been a
long time coming to this point, but now I think I am
ready to answer this question in a few words and let
you rest. Manifestly, it is the development of us
‘journalists’ into men strong in body and mind and
morals, full of right ambition, and unmistakably
flavored from the journalistic pepper-box. Now, can
Notre Dame give us this training? It is not to spur your
wearied minds to renewed attention, but only to bring
my reflections to a speedy close, that I answer, No.
Notre Dame can only offer. She does offer generously,
repeatedly and with a kindly solicitude. She offers a
course, young gentlemen,—I shall not quote from a
catalogue at a banquet,—in which the going is never
easy; a course that requires constant effort, and renewed
hope, and courage that puts fears behind. It is a course
that will make you weary for rest, and you will often
wish to turn from the looming steeps ahead, and you
will think the efforts you have made are fruitless, and
your gaze will wander into other fields till you will
call yourselves hard names for having been so foolish
as ever to have entered upon this course. But all this
time you are growing; your minds are becoming quicker
and surer, and more comprehensive, more discriminat-
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	33
ing, more retentive, more versatile and more logical;
and you are stronger morally,—clean in aim and clean
in habit and fearless of pain and difficulty because the
overcoming of new difficulties has been your daily
occupation.
But Notre Dame, ‘alma mater’ though she is,
can not make this progress ours; she points the way,—
ay, she solicitously leads the way,—but the way we
ourselves must travel. But the end repays us. As the
scout, who after winning his way through jungles
and heat-scorched plains and, after toiling laboriously
up past torrents and ravines and precipices till he
reaches the open mountain top, can sweep within his
view friend and foe and all the vantages of the lay of the
land, so we, after our difficult progress, shall reach a
mental and moral height, a broader vision and a purer
atmosphere. The great newspapers must speak out
from a broad vision and from a pure atmosphere, and
the great newspapers will always want men of vision
and purity,—men of whose very natures industry,
honesty, determination, mental quickness and strength
and adaptability, and a strong sense of duty and moral
responsibility, have from the habits and practice of
youth become a very part. This kind of men our course
of Jounalism at Notre Dame should make.
. Personally I have every hope,—and my hope is
reasonable, for I know this first class of Notre Dame
‘journalists’—that not one of them will fail. I know
them to be, one and all, clean-minded and warm-
hearted, intelligent beyond the average, true to them-
selves and true to principle; and I look for them, in
their future success,—which, young gentlemen, your
elders here all warmly wish you,—to sustain the high
reputation of Notre Dame, and to be an honor to one of
their teachers, who is particularly proud of them tonight.
34
BULLETIN OB THE
The New Spirit and its Fruits.*
FATHER CAVANAUGH, Ladies and Gentlemen:
The great State of Ohio, just emerging, half
stunned, from the gravest disaster since the
Civil War, bids me to honor the high cause of education
by coming to this historic institution and participating
in the function of graduation. Not only because of
what this school is doing for Ohio does she so bid me,
but because its President sprang from Buckeye soil.
You graduates of the class of 1913 will never know
the pride felt at this moment by your home folks,
and you can never measure the deprivations that have
made the completion of your course possible. In the
average American institution today ninety percent
of the graduations come about as the result of a fight
against adverse circumstances.
The truth is that all things in life worth while come
to us only after conquering resistance. It is the game
of life; and your success will be proportioned to the
amount of opposition you surmount. The right arm
becomes hard and sinewy by hard use. The flying
machine, better than anything else I know, typifies
the struggle. You know its principle. The great engine
turns the propeller blades which drive the machine
ahead, and yet if it were not for the resistance of the
air in front it would never rise from the ground. But
* Address delivered by His Excellency, James M. Cox, Gov-
ernor of the State of Ohio, at the sixty-ninth Commencement
of the University of Notre Dame, June 16, 1913.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
35
with the application of the power from behind and the
resistance of the air in front, the machine proudly
rises and rides to the clouds on the winds of nature.
During the long winter months you have heard
much of the theories in philosophy, in law and in econo-
mics; so I want to discuss with you tonight the practi-
cal things of life—the responsibilities of citizenship.
No man can expect to be numbered as a citizen unless
he meets with bravery and the best intelligence within
him the responsibilities which citizenship carries.
Next month at Gettysburg the blue and the gray
meet to extend the hand of American brotherhood,
and this recalls to us the great crisis that was faced
by the brave men of the blue who repelled the charge
of Pickett. Great as was the responsibility which they
faced, that of the private citizen is no less.
I should like to see every State adopt a law com-
pelling the male citizens of legal age to cast their votes
or give sufficient reason for not doing so: otherwise
they should be penalized by having the right of suffrage
taken from them for two or three years. The man
who does not respect this God-given right in a repub-
lican form of government ought to have it taken away
from him until such time as some understanding of
its value comes to him.
The first thing you will have to overcome is the
tendency to proceed along the line of the least resistance.
When we face the sunrise rather than the sunset and
resolve to progress with the evolution of time, we are
showing no irreverence towards our fathers. The
truth is that we are living in a great age and under
-the influences of a higher civilization. The vision is
from greater heights. Science, education, every process
and development of nature, brings to us advantages
which our fathers knew not of. Life is a relay race;
36
bulletin of tub
we must take up the burden with the freshness with
which oUr fathers began it: otherwise we are going
backward and not forward.
The blessings of this generation were contributed
by our fathers and by the law of compensation the
future exacts from us in behalf of the coming generation
as much as we received from the generation which we
succeeded. Our fathers proceeded along different lines
from those followed by their sires. Why, the very
accepted fundamentals of justice have changed. The
fathers of our Constitution imprisoned people for debt.
If a man were unfortunate in business no consideration
was given to the high elements of probity and honesty
which characterized his relations with his fellows.
If he were unable to pay his creditors dollar for dollar
he was thrown into a felon’s cell. We don’t subscribe to-
that in this day. There were twenty-six different
offenses in the thirteen original States punishable by
death, many of them minor offenses at that. This
has been reduced now to the crime of murder. The
property qualification was exacted before a man could
vote, and no one could hold office unless he was possessed
of considerable of this world’s goods. No one could
be Governor of any of the States unless he was measur-
ably a rich man. Would you return to this old order
of things and deprive the young American of his day
dreams and the ambitions of his vigorous life, or would
you continue to make America the great land of
opportunity?
It was Ireland’s opposition to wrongs imposed that
made the Bmerald Isle and its people famous. It was
Washington’s refusal To follow the easy course that
made possible the successes of the Continental army
over the British. Our forefathers of revolutionary
days could more easily have submitted to indignities
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	37
from an insane King than they could undertake a long
siege of war and contest. They combatted the impulse
to proceed along the line of the least resistance and our
Republic was the result. Lincoln could have won the
Senatorship from his State by compromising with
principle, but his conscience was his compass and it
led him into the great struggle against human slavery.
The way was hard, but his name and fame are secure
and his contribution to the ages cannot be measured.
We are creatures of habit, and it is only the vigorous
flow of the blood in our veins that pulls us out of our
tracks. The old order of things carried with it prefer-
ences and privileges in conflict with the real spirit of
government, and when correction has been suggested
the siren voice of “let well enough alone” has been
raised. The great so-called unrest has been brought
about by our institutions of government not keeping
pace with the evolutionary changes of the times. The
poets tell us that the stars and the hills are changeless,
but they are not. Everything about us must pass
through the changes and processes of time.
Man is admittedly the proudest product of nature.
Is it fair to assume that if humanity and society progress
with the lapse of time government, which is de-
vised purely for the regulation of society, must not
keep pace? The causes of the unrest are so well marked
as to be easily analyzed. Legislation has been too
impersonal. The institutions of government have not
been brought down closely enough to the homely activ-
ities of the community, and when it has been sought to
write a larger measure of humanity into our laws and
put into the fabric the golden thread of human kind-
ness, some selfish interests presented alleged constitu-
tional objections.
X
In Congress when we sought to pass the Children’s
38
bulletin of thf
Bureau Bill, a simple device to collaborate all informa-
tion and statistics with reference to the child life of
the Nation, protest was made on the ground that the
right did not inhere in Congress to pass such a law. We
spend millions of dollars to protect the animals on the
farm. There has been no constitutional objection
raised to that. But the plea is that it is unconstitutional
to protect the child.
Industrial peace has been delayed by the con-
tinued application of the principles of common law
with respect to personal injury cases. The problems
of industrialism are many, not the least of which is
that of distributing in an equitable way the burden
of industrial accidents and tragedies. The products
of our great mines and factories are necessary to civiliza-
tion. Society is the beneficiary. No man can live alone.
He is dependent in a considerable degree upon his
fellows. Many occupations are dangerous, but they are
necessary. Under the old order of things the burdens
of disasters resulting from mishaps have fallen upon
the shoulders of those who faced the hazard. The
new order of things directs that society, the real bene-
ficiary, must accept the burden and share it.
A locomotive engineer was killed in a wreck caused
by the carelessness of a telegraph operator a hundred
miles away. The suit brought by his widow came to
the court of last resort and the decree was that there
could be no legal compensation because the husband
and father came to his death by the carelessness of a.
fellow servant. The new order of things suggests that
compensation be paid, and without delay.
A man may have been injured in a factory because
of no carelessness whatsoever on his part. He lost an
arm or a leg. The employer was insured by a liability
company, which either compelled a compromise under
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
39
the stress of starvation, or maintained the unequal
contest as between the weak and the strong. The court
of last resort held that the workman assumed the risk
and was entitled to no compensation. The new order
of things directs that compensation must be paid. The
workmen’s compensation law is the greatest piece of
constructive legislation of the age. It puts a stop to
the conflict in the courts as between men who work and
their employers. The manufacturer will not pay the
compensation in the final analysis. It will be levied
upon the product and transferred to consumption,
which means that society carries the burden, and that
is proper.
Prison reform, which keeps men at work on prison
farms rather than penning them up in the idle house,
accomplishes two things: it reduces the expense to
the State to maintain them in the idle house; and it
enables the State to give to the unfortunate credit for
their day’s hire during good behaviour, and, after de-
ducting the cost of his keep, to send home to the wives
and children the profit.
New laws have given added reverence to the
institution of motherhood. No public institution
generates the same healthful atmosphere in which to
rear the child as we find in the humble home. There
is an economy in transferring the cost of conducting
these institutions to the home by giving a little help
to the dependent mother. The whole tendency has
the primary objective of reducing the human shipwrecks
in the next generation.
The old order may regard the humanitarian legis-
lation, so-called, as something which does not legiti-
mately come within the purview of government. I am
firmly of the belief that it is the highest function of
government.
40
BUDDBTIN OB THS
Sixty-Ninth Annual Commencement.
DsgrSSs and Awards.
The degree of Doctor of Laws was conferred:
On a distinguished statesman who served his country
brilliantly for thirty-two years in the National Con-
gress, whose public record has been as free from taint
as it is rich in great accomplishment, the Honorable
Julius Caesar Burrows, of Kalamazoo, Michigan.
On an educator whose high faculty it is to win
hearts as well as to train minds, who unites the severely
scientific spirit with the most Christ-like compassion
and sympathy, whose devotion to Christian education
is as unwavering as his achievements are honorable,
the Rev. William Joseph Kerby of Washington, D. C.
On the Chief Executive of a great State whose
career has brought as much honor to himself as it
. has worked advantage to the nation, the Honorable
James M. Cox, Governor of the State of Ohio.
The Degree of Doctor of Philosophy in Course was
conferred on Jose Angel Caparo, C. E., M. C. E., E. E.,
M. S., in Math., Sc. D., of Peru, South America.
Thesis: The Theory of the Geometry of Hyperspace
as Applied to a Space of four Dimensions and the
Derivations of the fundamental Magnitudes of a
Quadruply Orthogonol System.” ,
The Degree of Master of Science in Course was con-
ferred on Regidius Marion Kaczmarek, Laporte, Ind.
Thesis: “A System of Plant Morphology.”
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
41
The Degree of Master of Mechanical Engineering was
conferred on William Dogan Benitz, M. E. E. E.
The Degree of Master of Laws was conferred on
Patrick Henry Cunning, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
Thesis: ‘ ‘ Patents. ’ ’
The Degree of Bachelor of Arts was conferred on:
Richard Vincent Blake, Hartford, Connecticut; William
Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois; Walter Henry Coffeen,
South Bend, Indiana; Bernard Jacob Durch, Chippewa
Balls, Wisconsin; Brands Joseph Dillon, Butler,
Pennsylvania; Erich Hans de Bries, Davenport, Iowa;
John Charles Kelley, Anderson, Indiana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Letters was conferred on:
John Thomas Burns, Kalamazoo, Michigan; Brands
Jerome Breslin, Los Angeles, California; Joseph Allan
Heiser, South Bend, Indiana; Edward Andrew Roach,
Muscatine, Iowa; Raymond Joseph Sieber, Racine,
Wisconsin; Brands Curtis Stanford, Independence,
Kansas; James Joseph Stack, Springfield, Illinois. J
The Degree of Bachelor of Philosophy was con-
ferred on: Paul Ryan Byrne, Chittenango, New York;
Jesse James Herr, Chatsworth, Illinois; Louis John
f Kiley, Rochester, New York; Thomas Brands O’Neil,
Akron Ohio; Simon Ercile Twining, Bowling Green,
Ohio.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Biology was
conferred on: William Joseph Corcoran, Portland,
Oregon.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Chemistry
was conferred on: August Herbert Boldt, Elgin,
Illinois.
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architecture
was conferred on: William Reuben Tipton, East-
Las Vegas, New Mexico; Brederick Williams, Wadena,
Indiana.
42
BUBBBTIN OB THB
The Degree of Bachelor of Science in Architectural
Engineering was conferred on: Ernest John Baader,
Chillicothe, Ohio.
The Degree of Civil Engineer was conferred on:
Harry John Kirk, Defiance, Ohio; Charles William
Lahey, Mattoon, Illinois; James Francis O’Brien,
Fairbury, Illinois; Augustin Gonzalez Saravia, Durango,
Mexico; Leo Alfred Sturn, Monroe, Michigan; James
Wasson, Chicago, Illinois.
The Degree of Mechanical Engineer was conferred on:
Manuel Fernando Arias, Havana, Cuba; Clyde Eloi
Broussard, Beaumont, Texas; Jose Angel Caparo,
Cusco, Peru; Warren Ray Cartier, Ludington, Michigan;
Antonio Lequerica, Cartagena, Colombia, S. America;
Thomas Francis Maguire, Fowler, Indiana; Alvaro
Rodriguez San Pedro, Consolacion del Sur, Cuba.
The Degree of Chemical Engineer was conferred on
Manuel Lequerica, Cartagena, Colombia, S. America.
The Degree of Electrical Engineer was conferred
on: Manuel Fernando Arias, Havana, Cuba; James
Ryan Devitt, Cleveland, Ohio; Thomas Aloysius
Furlong, Chicago, Illinois; William Neil Hogan,
Crafton, Pennyslvania; John William O’Connell, Elgin,
Illinois; Antonio Aldrete Rivas, Jalisco, Mexico;
John Alfred .Saw kins, Toledo, Ohio; Frederick Louis
Truscott, Glasgow, Montana.
The Degree of Bachelor of Laws was conferred on:
Jacob Vivian Birder, Park River, North Dakota;
Aristo Cornelius Brizzolara, Little Rock, Arkansas;
Charles Francis Crowley, Cambridge, Massachussets;
Edward Partick Cleary, Momence, Illinois; William
Edward Cotter, Chicago, Illinois; Francis William
Durbin, Kenton, Ohio; Michael Augustine Dougherty,
Lancaster, Ohio; Clyde J. Dennis, Kalamazoo, Michigan;
William Joseph Granfield, Springfield, Massachussets;
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
43
Frederic Matthew Gilbough, Galveston, Texas;
William Joseph Hicks, Spring Valley, Illinois; LeGrande
Anderson Hammond, Decatur, Michigan; Cornelius
Byron Hayes, Fort Wayne, Indiana; Floyd Ottowell
Jellison, South Bend, Indiana; Henry John Kuhle,
Salem, South Dakota; Stephen John Morgan, Chicago,
Illinois; William Joseph Milroy, Chatsworth, Illinois;
Peter John Meersman, Moline, Illinois; Thomas Aloysius
McGovern, Whittemore, Iowa; Daniel Vincent
McGinnis, Slater, Missouri; Reuben Patrick Noud,
Manistee, Michigan; James William O’Hara, Cincin-
nati, Ohio; Terence James O’Neil, Waterbury, Con-
necticut; John Francis O’Connell, Chicago, Illinois;
Francis Maurice O’Hearn, Slater, Missouri; Vincent
DePaul Ryan, Bay City, Michigan; Clarence Charles
Stueckle, South Bend, Indiana; Basil Joseph Soisson,
Connellsville, Pennsylvania; Feo Albert Schumacher,
South Bend, Indiana; Samuel Paul Schwartz, Misha-
waka, Indiana; Fernando Hector Usera, Ponce, Porto
Rico.
The Degree of Pharmaceutical Chemist was con-
ferred on: Bronislaus Joseph Janowski, South Bend,
Indiana; Regidius Marion Kaczmarek, Laporte,
Indiana.
The Degree of Graduate in Pharmacy was conferred
on: Edward John Fasenmeyer, New Bethlehem,
Pennsylvania; John Orley Foote, Salem, South.Dakota;
Harry Bernard Tierney, Broken Bow, Nebraska;
Carl Edward Wilmes, Grand Rapids, Michigan; James
Michael Ware, Kewana, Indiana.
Certificates for the Short Program in Electrical
Engineering were conferred on: Manuel Gurza, Jr.,
Guadalajara, Mexico; Joseph Redmond O’Hanlon,
Sherman, Texas; Francis Louis Wentland, SouthjBend,
44
BULLETIN OF THF
Indiana; Walter Sydney Yund, Helena, Montana;
Ramon Garcia Rubio, Santi Spiritus, Cuba.
Certificates for the Short Program in Mechanical
Engineering were conferred on: Edwin Joseph Harvat,
Livingston, Montana; Leon Joseph Soisson, Norwalk,
Ohio; Walter Sydney Yund, Helena, Montana; Luis
Fernando Sotomayor, Cuahutemos, Pochuca, Mexico;,
Charles Amador Gonzalez, Huanuco, Peru, South
America.
The Quan Gold Medal, presented by the late William
J. Quan, of Chicago, for the student having the best
record in the Classical Program, Senior Year, and a.
money prize of twenty-five dollars, gift of Mr. Henry
Quan in memory of his deceased father, was awarded
to William Joseph Burke, Chicago, Illinois.
The Martin J. McCue Gold Medal, presented by
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, Civil Engineer, of the class
of ’77, for the best record for four years in the Civil
Engineering program, was awarded to Augustin
Gonzalez Saravia, Durango, Mexico.
The Breen Gold Medal for Oratory, presented by
the Honorable William P. Breen, of the class of ’77,,
was awarded to Simon Ercile Twining, Bowling Green,,
Ohio.
The Barry Elocution Gold Medal, presented by
Honorable P. T. Barry, of Chicago, was awarded to
John Felix Hynes, Albia, Iowa.
The Meehan Gold Medal, the gift of Mrs. Eleanor
Meehan, of Covington, Kentucky, for the best essay in
English (Senior), was awarded to Simon Ercile Twining,
Bowling, Green, Ohio.
Seventy-five Dollars for Debating work was awarded
as follows: Thirty dollars to William Joseph Milroy,.
Chatsworth, Illinois. Twenty-five dollars to Simon
Ercile Twining, Bowling Green, Ohio. Ten dollars.
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
45
to Peter John Meersman, Moline Illinois. Ten dollars
to James Joseph Stack, Springfield, Illinois.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Junior Oratory, presented
hy Mr. James V. O’Donnell, of the class of ’89, was
awarded to Alfred John Brown, Portland, Oregon.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Sophomore Oratory, pre-,
sented by Mr. John S. Hummer, of the class of ’91,
was awarded to George Peter Schuster, Lancaster,
Wisconsin.
Ten Dollars in Gold for Preshman Oratory, pre-
sented by Mr. Hugh O’Neil, of the class of 91’, was
awarded to Jeremiah Patrick Haggerty, Boston,
Massachussets.