Series IX.
Number III.
BULLETIN
OF THE
University of Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
JOURNALISM NUMBER
PUBLISHED QUARTERLY BY THE UNIVERSITY
♦
THE UNIVERSITY PRESS
JANUARY, 1914
Entered at the Post Office, Notre Indiana, as second class matter, July 17, 1905
2
bulletin of the
■4H«
DIRECTORY OF THE UNIVERSITY
The FACULTY—Address: *
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME,
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA.
The STUDENTS—Address:	,
As for the Faculty, except that the name of the
Hade in which the student lives should be added.
A Postoffice, a Telegraph Office, a Long Distance Tel-
ephone, and an Express Office are at the University.
The University is two miles from the city of South
Bend, Indiana, and about eighty miles east of Chicago.
The Lake Shore and Michigan Southern, the Grand
Trunk, the Vandalia, the Indiana, Illinois & Iowa, the
Chicago and Indiana Southern, and the Michigan Cen-
tral railways run directly into South Bend. A trolley
line runs cars from South Bend to the University every
fifteen minutes.
The Latitude of the University is 41 degrees, 43
minutes, and 12.7 seconds North, and 86 degrees,
14 minutes and 19.3 seconds West of Greenwich.
The elevation is about 750 feet above the sea.
From this it is clear that the location is favorable
for a healthful climate.where students may engage in
vigorous mental work without too great fatigue or
danger to health.	’
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
BOARD OF TRUSTEES
Very Rev. ANDREW MORRISSEY, C. S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, C. S. C.,
CHANCELLOR.
*
_ Rbv. DANIEL E. HUDSON, C. S. C.
Rbv. WILLIAM R. CONNOR, C. S. C.,
SECRETARY.
Rev. JOSEPH MAGUIRE, C. S. C.
Bro. ALBAN, C. S. C.
4
BULLETIN OF THE
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
UNIVERSITY
Rev. JOHN CAVANAUGH, Ci S. C.,
PRESIDENT.
Rev. MATTHEW WALSH, C. S. C.,
/
VICE-PRESIDENT.
Rev. MATTHEW SCHUMACHER, C. S. C.,
DIRECTOR OF STUDIES.
Rev. JOSEPH BURKE, C. S. C.,
PREFECT OF DISCIPLINE.
Rev. WILLIAM MOLONEY, C. S. C.,
secretary..
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRB DAME	5
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
The University of Notre Dame was founded in the
year 1842, by the Very Reverend Edward Sorin, the
late Superior General of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. In an act approved January 15, 1844, the Legis- '
lature of Indiana gave the University power to grant
degrees. The beginning of this act is:
“Be it enacted by the General Assembly of the State
of Indiana, that Edward Frederick Sorin, Francis Lewis
Cointet, Theophilus Jerome Marivault, Francis Gouesse
and their associates and successors in office, be, and are
hereby constituted and declared to be, a body, corporate
and politic, by the name and style of the ‘ University of
Notre Dame du Lac,’ and by that name shall have
perpetual succession, with full power and authority to
confer and grant, or cause to be conferred and granted
such degrees and diplomas in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as are usually conferred and
granted in other universities in the United States, pro-
vided, however, that no degree shall be conferred or
diplomas granted, except to students who have acquired
the same proficiency in the liberal arts and sciences,
and in law and medicine, as is customary in other
universities in the United States.”
6
BULLETIN OF THE
UNIVERSITY BUILDINGS
THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
The dimensions of this building are 320 by 155 feet;
it is five stories in height and is surmounted by a dome
207 feet in height. The executive offices, two study-
halls, some dormitories and class rooms and the dining-
rooms are in this building. The Library and the
Bishops’ Memorial Hall are also here temporarily.
This building, like all the others of the University,
is lighted by electricity and gas, and heated by steam.
The corridors of the first floor are decorated with
mural paintings by Gr egori.	-
THE CHURCH
The Church of the Sacred Heart is 275 by 120 feet
in ground dimension and 125 in height from the floor
to the roof ridge. The interior is decorated by Gregori,
and the architecture is Gothic. There is a large crypt
and many chapels. In the tower is a chime of 32 bells
and the great six-ton chief bell.
THE LIBRARY
The Library contains 65,000 volumes and several
thousand unbound pamphlets and manuscripts. The
department of literary criticism, history, political
science and the Greek and Latin classics are well rep-
resented. Special libraries containing reference works
on technical subjects are provided in the Colleges
of Engineering and Science. The College of Law has
a complete library of its own. Ample reading room
is provided in the main library. The best literary
magazines and reviews, as well as current numbers
of scientific and technical journals are kept on file.
■ UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
7
Students have access to the Library from 8:oo A. M.
to 9:00 P. M.
WASHINGTON HALL
This hall is 170 feet in length, 100 feet in width,
and about 100 feet in height. It contains the rooms
of the Department of Music, the reading rooms for
Brownson and Carroll Halls, and the University Theatre.
The theatre is elaborately equipped with stage settings.
It will seat 1,200 persons. Lectures by men eminent
in public and professional life are given here. Concerts
and plays by professional companies are also pre-
sented in this theatre. The dtamatic clubs of the
University present several plays annually.
SCIENCE HALL
is situated a few steps south of Washington Hall.
Its dimensions are 105 by 131 feet, and it is three
stories in height. A large central space, the full height
of the building, is occupied by a museum containing
mineral, fossil and biological specimens. The depart-
ments of Physics, Civil Engineering, Philosophy, Botany
and Biology have recitation rooms and laboratories
in this building. The equipment for each of these
departments is extensive and complete.
THE MUSEUM
connected with the departments named above, is
well arranged for convenience of study. The sociological
collection on the second floor at present fills sixteen
large cases and represents typical forms of all the
orders and genera of vertebrate and invertebrate
animals. A large collection of representative ver-
tebrate skeletons forms a considerable part of the
museum.
8
BULLETIN OF THE
0-
Facilities for the publication of research on subjects
of natural history are afforded in. the pages of the
American Midland Naturalist, which appears bi-monthly
from the laboratory of botany at the University.
The collection in Geology and Mineralogy occupy
the first floor. These collections are arranged in a
series of cases on each side of the building. In one
series is a carefully classified collection of minerals
and ores. The opposite series of cases contain a large
geological collection; some of the specimens here
are of the rarest fossil remains of animals and plant
life.
THE CHEMICAL LABORATORIES
- occupy a large three-story building directly south of
Science Hall. The entire first floor is devoted to ad-
vanced work and space is given to three large labora-
tories, a library and lecture room. The second floor
is occupied by the Department of Pharmacy, and
contains a large, well-equipped laboratory, a modern
drug store, a lecture room and museum, a library for
pharmaceutical publications, and a general stock-room.
The general inorganic, organic and elementary chemical
laboratories are on the third floor. Bach laboratory
is provided "with ample hood accommodations, and
each desk is furnished with water, gas and suction.
ENGINEERING HALL
This building is situated in the southern part of the
grounds and is a large two-story brick structure, well
lighted and heated. The lower floor contains the
mechanical laboratory, machine shop, blacksmith shop
and foundry. The second floor provides the shop for
wood-work and also contains a well lighted drawing
room where students in designing may consult complete
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	9
• *%,
workings of the best steam engines and pumps to be
found on the market. In this building are likewise
the dynamo laboratory, designing room and recitation
rooms of the Electrical Engineering department.
THE OBSERVATORY
This building is located near the Chemical Lab-
oratories and is designed for an equatorial telescope
and for a transit or meridian circle. The equatorial
telescope now in the building is intended for students
of astronomv, and is in use whenever favorable weather
permits.
SORIN HALL
This building is 144 feet in length, with two wings
121 feet in depth. It has a basement and three high
stories, and contains 101 private rooms for advanced
students. These rooms are furnished, and students
of full Senior, Junior, or Sophomore standing in any of
the Colleges are not required to pay rent. On the
first floor there is a chapel, a law lecture room and
a law library. The building is lighted with electricity
and heated with steam. In the basement are recre-
ation rooms and bath rooms.
CORBY HALL
Corby Hall is a second residence building. It has
three stories and a basement, and is 240 feet in width.
There are 125 private rooms for students, with rec-
reation rooms and a chapel. The building is lighted
with electricity and gas. and heated with steam.
WALSH HALL
This newest dormitory building is situated South
of Sorin, fronting the quadrangle. Its dimensions
are 230 feet by 41 feet. It faces East and all the
J
IO
bulletin oe the
front rooms are made up of suites each consisting
of a commodious study room, flanked on either side
by a bedroom. Attached to each suite is a private
bath and toilet. Bach room is supplied with hot
and cold water. The rear rooms are singles and the
general toilet and bath rooms are of hollow, fire-proof
tile, walls and ceilings covered with wire lath and
plaster, making practically a fire proof building.' It
is equipped with a distinct system of stand-pipes for
fighting fire. The entire corridor floors are built of
reinforced concrete, covered with Roman ceramic
mosaics. In finish and equipment Walsh Hall is
believed to be the best college dormitory building
in America. It embraces three stories besides the
admirable basement and attic, and it is capable of
accommodating over a hundred students.
BROWNSON HALL
Brownson Hall occupies the east wing of the Admin-
istration Building and contains the living and study
rooms of Preparatory students of seventeen years of
age and upwards. There is a common study hall
a common lavatory, and two large sleeping rooms
in which each student has an alcove curtained to secure
a personal privacy. Experience shows that the dis-
cipline of these common rooms works admirable effects
on students who have not yet contracted solid habits
of study.
CARROLL HALL
Carroll Hall is in the west wing of the Adminis-
tration Building. It is in all respect similar to Brown-
son Hall, except that it is intended for younger students.
The regulations are more particularly adapted to their
age and scholastic attainments. Preparatory students
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	u
between the ages of thirteen and seventeen years are
placed in this hall.
ST. JOSEPH’S HALL
St. Joseph’s Hall is located at the extreme south-
western end* of the campus and is devoted exclusively
to living and study rooms. In this building live those
students who defray one-half the cost of board and
tuition by waiting at table during the meals. The
conditions for admission to this hall are: (i) The pay-
ment of two hundred dollars ($200.00) a year on the
first of August, and (2) satisfactory service as a waiter.
The waiting in nowise interferes with the student’s
work, and all the educational advantages are open
to him. It is to be regretted that through the lack
of endowment the University can offer only a limited
number of such opportunities each year. It is neces-
sary to apply early for these appointments.
THE INFIRMARY
This building, 200 feet by 45 feet in ground measure-
ment and three stories in height, contains rooms for
the use of students during illness. The sick are cared
for by Sisters of the Holy Cross, and the University
physician visits them daily.
THE GYNMASIUM
The Gymnasium which was burned down in Novem-
ber, 1900, was replaced by a building 230 by 200 feet
on the ground. The track-hall is now 100 by 180
feet on the ground. It is used for indoor meets, winter
baseball practice, basketball and military drill. The
gymnastic hall is 100 by 40 feet and is furnished with
a full set of apparatus; below that are the offices,
dressing rooms and shower baths. Friends of the
University and the alumni contributed more than
12
BULLETIN OF THE
three thousand dollars to the fund for rebuilding.
Cartier field is an enclosed field for athletic games.
There is_ a permanent grand stand near the baseball
diamond and the running track, and a portable stand
near the football rectangle. The' field contains ten
acres of ground, and is a gift to the University from
Mr. Warren A. Cartier, C. E-, of the class of ’87.
OTHER BUILDINGS
There are numerous other large buildings connected
with the University: .Holy Cross Hall, Dujarie Hall,
the Community House, the Presbytery, and Saint
Edward’s Hall, the last named being a school for
children under the age of thirteen, in care of the Sisters
of the Holy Cross.
SYSTEM OF INSTRUCTION
The entire plan of studies is based on the modified
elective system. The student is free to select his
own curriculum conformably to his natural liking,
the career in life he may have in view, or the deter-
minate intellectual bent developed during his secondary
school years; but, though he is free to elect his own
studies, he has not, however, unlimited freedom in
this respect. The principle of general election is mod-
ified. Lest the young Freshman in his inexperience
choose unwisely, he is aided in making his choice of
studies by being permitted to select from among a
number of parallel programs leading to baccalaureate
degrees. Twenty programs are open for his choice
in the Colleges, each embracing courses which, in the
opinion of the Faculty, contribute best to cultural,
scientific or professional knowledge. These programs
are, in some cases, made elastic by the introduction
of elective courses, especially in the Junior and Senior
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	13
years. ’Students who wish to spend a limited time
in study and can not complete all the courses in a
program for a degree may register as special students
and elect any course for which their preparation has
fitted them.
The hours scheduled in the different programs are
credit hours based on the average amount of time
required for preparation of recitations. One hour
of recitation is regarded as the equivalent of two hours
of laboratory work. The minimum number of credit
hours which a student must carry, except in his Senior
year, is sixteen, the maximum number which he may
ordinarily carry is twenty. Students who wish to take
more work than is indicated by the maximum require-
ments must apply by formal petition to the Faculty
for the requisite permission.
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ADMISSION
TO THE COLLEGES
Candidates who wish to enter any of the Colleges
must present evidence, either by examination or by
a properly attested certificate, of ability to enter on
the courses of the Freshman .year. The specific sub-
jects required for entrance will be found later in this
catalogue.
Examinations - in all the subjects required for ad-
mission to the University are held at Notre Dame in
September, the beginning of the Fall Term and in
February, the beginning of the Spring Term.
A candidate failing to pass satisfactory examina-
tions in one or more of the subjects required for
admission to any college program may, at the dis-
cretion of the Faculty, be admitted to his class con-
ditioned, to make up his deficiency by extra study
14
bulletin oe the
within one school year. Only when the conditions
are removed will the student be admitted to full stand-
ing in his class.
Students who have completed a four year course
in High Schools or Preparatory Schools of recognized
standing will be admitted without examination to
the Freshman year of any program to which their
preparatory studies entitle them.
Candidates for admission to advanced standing
who are required to take examinations must pass,
in addition to the usual entrance examinations, an
examination in the work already done by the classes
they desire to enter. The additional subjects may be
found in the several programs of studies described
later in this catalogue.
Applicants for advanced standing who present
certificates from other colleges or universities may
be received at the discretion of the Faculty with or
without examination as regards particular cases.
No students will be admitted to any course of the
Senior year until all conditions have been cancelled.
Catholic students are required to take the prescribed
courses in Evidences of Religion.
Subjects required for entrance to the Freshman year
of the Department of Journalism
English.................4	History..............2
Latin...................2	Mathematics..........2
Modern Language.........2	Science..............1
Elective...............3
UNIVERSITY OE NOTRE DAME	15
DEGREES
Degrees are conferred only on regular students who
have satisfied the full entrance requirements and have
completed satisfactorily the courses prescribed.
Written theses and formal examinations are
demanded of all candidates for degrees. One full
scholastic year of resident study is absolutely required.
BACHELORS
The courses of study offered to candidates for the
degree of Bachelor extend by fixed programs through-
out the four scholastic years. In the College of Arts
and Letters one of five degrees is conferred on an
undergraduate—Bachelor of Arts (A. B.), Bachelor of
Letters (Litt. B.), Bachelor of Philosophy (Ph. B.),
Bachelor of Philosophy in Journalism (Ph. B. in Jour.),
Bachelor of Philosophy in Commerce (Ph. B. in Com-
merce)—dependent on the special program of studies the
’candidate selects. The College of Science offers six de-
grees for choice to undergraduates—Bachelor of Science
(B. S.), Bachelor of Science in Biology (B. S. Biol.),
Bachelor of Science in Chemistry (B. S. Chern.), Bachelor
of Science in Pharmacy (B. S. in Ph.), Graduate in
Pharmacy (Ph. G.), Pharmaceutical Chemist-(Ph. C.).
The College of Engineering offers five degrees—Civil
Engineer (C. E-), Mechanical Engineer (M. E-), Elec-
trical Engineer (E. E.), Mining Engineer (E. M.)?
and Chemical Engineer (Ch. E-). Two degrees are
offered* by the College of Architecture—Bachelor of
Science in Architecture (B. S. A.), and Bachelor' of
Science in Architectural Engineering (B. S. A. E-).
The College of Law offers the degree of Bachelor of
Laws (LL- B.). In the College of Music one degree
is offered—Bachelor of Music (B. M.). In order to
i6
BULLETIN CT THE
obtain, this degree the candidate must have studied
music in the University for one complete year. He
must have a thorough theoretical knowledge of four
specified instruments and a practical mastery of one
of them. He shall pass a written examination in
harmony, counterpoint and composition, and he must
submit to the examiner two original compositions: (a)
a fugue for full orchestra, or for four voices with in-
dependent orchestral accompaniment: (b) a composi-
tion in the free form (sonata or rondo) for pianoforte,
or a trio (pianoforte, violin and violincello.)
The degree of Bachelor will not be conferred unless
the candidate shall have been in residence for one
complete scholastic year in his Senior year of study.
MASTERS
The degree of Master is open to students who have
received the degree of Bachelor from Notre Dame or
from some other college in good standing, and who
make application to the Committee of the Faculty
on Graduate Study for the privilege of pursuing ad-
vanced work. All work must be approved by this
Committee. One year of residence, at least, is re-
quired of candidates who have received their Bachelor’s
degree at another college. Those w’ho have received
their Bachelor’s degree from Notre Dame, may, in
some cases to be determined by the Committee, obtain
the Master’s degree for work done in absentia.* One
major and one or two minor courses will constitute
the.curriculum, forming a consistent coordinated plan
of advanced work pursued with some definite aim.
On completion of the required work the candidate
must pass a satisfactory examination in writing, under
* No degree is conferred in honored except the degree of
Doctor of Laws ('LL. D.).
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
17
the professors who give his subjects of instruction.
The candidates for this degree must also write a dis-
sertation of'notable merit on some topic connected
with his major subject, the thesis to contain in the
minimum five thousand words. The subject of the
thesis must be announced to the Committee by De-
cember 1, and submitted for examination by May 15.
Five printed or typewritten copies of the thesis must
be presented to the University to be placed in the
library. The fee for examination of work done in ab-
sentia is twenty-five dollars. The fee for this degree
is fixed at fifteen dollars.
DOCTOR OF PHILOSOPHY »
Three years must be spent by the candidate in Uni-
versity work before the degree of Doctor shall be con-
ferred,—two of these must be spent at Notre Dame
and one may be passed at some other university on
approval of the Committee of the Faculty on Graduate
Study. The candidate must pass satisfactorily ex-
aminations in French and German on entrance. The
work for the degree shall consist of one major and two
minor courses of instruction approved by the Committee.
Research study shall form the most important part
of the candidate’s work. On completion of his work
the candidates must pass minute examinations on the
three subjects of his curriculum and must defend his
dissertation before the whole Faculty. The thesis
must be printed and one hundred and fifty copies
presented to the University. A copy of the thesis
must be handed to the Committee one month before
the examinations. The degree will not be conferred
for merely faithful .work, and not- for miscellaneous
study, but for original research and for -high attain-
18
BUfibBTlN OB TH£
ment in one branch, of study. The fee for this degree
is fixed at twenty-five dollars.
SPECIAL STUDENTS
Students who do not wish to become candidates
for a degree by following the prescribed courses of
any program may register as special students and
attend any of the courses of instruction for which
their previous academic training has fitted them.
Such special students’'are governed by the same regu-
lations and discipline as the other undergraduates.
They are required to pass the same examinations in
the courses they pursue as the other students. In
exceptional cases men of mature age, who have been
out of school or college for several years, but whose
training in practical affairs has been sufficiently educa-
tive, will be accepted as special students by satisfying
the Faculty of their ability to pursue with profit any
course of instruction.
On leaving the University special students may
receive on application certificates stating their pro-
ficiency in the courses they have pursued.
DISCIPLINE
Official reports of each student’s class standing
will be sent to parents and guardians quarterly.
The Faculty maintains that an education which
gives little attention to the development of the moral
part of a youth’s character is pernicious, and that
it is impossible to bring about this development where
students are granted absolute relaxation from all '
Faculty government while outside the class-room. A
young man must learn obedience to law by the actual
practice of obedience. Here students are required to
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	19
obtain permission for any departure from the regular
daily rountine.
Moreover, the quiet and concentration of mind that
are needed for college work are not obtained except
where discipline exists.
Therefore the following regulations, shown by ex-
perience to be salutary, are enforced at the University.
1.	No student shall leave the University grounds
without premission from the President or the person
delegated to represent him.
2.	Leave of absence will not be granted to students
during the term, except in cases of urgent necessity.
There is no vacation at Laster.
3.	Students are required to report at the Uni-
versity immediately after arriving at South Bend.
This rule is binding not only at the beginning of the
scholastic year, but at all other times when leave of
absence has been granted. Unnecessary delay in
South Bend is looked upon as a serious violation of
rule.
4.	Flagrant disobedience to authority, cheating
in examinations, the use of intoxicating liquors, im-
morality, the use of profane and obscene language,
and an unauthorized, absence from the University
limits are among the causes for expulsion. In case
of suspension or expulsion for such offences, no fee
shall be returned.
5.	The use of cigarettes is strictly forbidden, a
second offence being punished by suspension for one
month.
6.	No branch of study shall be taken up or dis-
continued without the consent of the Director of
Studies.
20	BULLETIN OF THE
7.	Preparatory students are enrolled in Brown-
son, Carroll or St. Edward’s Hall according to age;
boys seventeen years of age or older are placed in
Brownson Hall; those over thirteen and under seven-
teen, in Carroll Hall, and those under thirteen, in St.
Edward’s Hall.
8.	The use of tobacco is forbidden except to such
students of Sorin, Corby, Walsh and Brownson Halls
. as have received from their parents written permission
to use tobacco.
9.	Continued violation of regulations in Sorin,
Corby or Walsh Halls leads to suspension.
10.	Although students of all religious denominations
are received, the University is nevertheless a strictly
Catholic institution, and all students are required
to attend divine 'service in the University Church at
stated times.
11.	Undue attention to athletics at the expense
of study will not be permitted; but students are ex-
pected to take part in outdoor sports.
12.	A limited number of athletic contests is per-
mitted with college organizations from without.
13.	All athletic associations of the students are
strictly forbidden to countenance anything that savors
of professionalism.
14.	All athletics are governed by a Faculty Board
of Control which will be guided in its rulings by the
regulations adopted by the Conference Colleges. The
Vice-President of the University and six members
of the Faculty will compose this Board, and reserve
the right of a final decision on all questions concern-
ing athletics. The Faculty Board will determine the
amateur standing of the members of the athletic teams
and apportion the. finances. By this means indiscreet
and unconsidered action of students will be checked.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	21
LECTURES AND CONCERTS
Bach winter, eminent men are invited to lecture
before the students. Among those who have addressed
the University in the past few years may be noted
five Apostolic Delegates, Cardinals Satolli, Martinelli
and Falconio, Monsignors Agius and Bonzano; Car-
dinals Gibbons and Earley; Archbhisops Ireland,
Riordan, Keane, Glennon, Christie and Spalding; and
Bishops Alerding, McQuaid, Maes, Muldoon, O’Gorman,
Shanley, Hickey, Hanna and MacSherry. There were
also such noted European churchmen as the Monsignor
Benson, Abbe Felix Klein, Bishop John S. Vaughan
and the foremost of living English historians, Cardinal
Gasquet; also men of letters like Rev. D. J. Stafford,
Marion Crawford, Maurice Francis Egan, Henry Van
Dyke, Seumas MacManus, William Butler Yeats, James
Jeffrey Roche, Wilfrid Ward, Hamilton Wright Mabie,
Opie Read, Bliss Perry, Leland Powers, Henry James
and the Rev. John Talbot Smith; and such men of
affairs as ex-President Taft, ex-Vice-President Fairbanks,
Senators Beveridge, Walsh, Gearin, Hill, Attorney
General Charles Jerome Bonaparte, Representative J.
Adam Bede, the Honorable William P. Breen, Bourke
Cochram, Francis Heaney, Dr. James C. Monaghan,
Willis M. Moore, the Honorable Edward McDermott,
His Excellency Wu Ting Fang, William Jennings Bryan,
Senator B. F. Shively, Max Pam, Governor J. Harmon
Hennis Taylor and Chief Justice Fitzpatrick of Canada.
Concerts are given frequently by organizations from
without.
STUDENT SOCIETIES
There are several literary and debating societies
in the University which do such creditable work at
their meetings and in preparation for them that their
22
BULLETIN OF THE
work takes on the nature of added courses of instruction.
In each society a member of the Faculty acts as adviser.
An Inter-Hall League has been formed and public
debates are held annually. The College of Law also
has an active debating club. The training in public
speaking has always received special attention at the
University. In twenty-seven public debates with other
universities and colleges Notre Dame me but three
defeats—the decision of the judges in the greater
number of these debates being unanimous. The Uni-
versity Dramatic Club and the Philopatrian Society
stage at least three plays annually for presentation in
public. The University Band, the University Orchestra
and the University Glee Club also appear regularly
in concerts.	-
Students’ of the Department of Civil and Electrical
Engineering have each a society in which papers on
engineering subjects are read and discussed. Men
prominent in their profession are invited to lecture
to these societies. The Pharmaceutical Society meets
to discuss subjects of interest in the world of pharmacy.
In other departments where no such formal organ-
izations has been effected similar results are reached
by seminars.
NECESSARY EXPENSES
Matriculation Fee (payable on first entrance).......$	10.00
BOARD, TUITION, Lodging, Washing, and Mending
of Linen, per school year.......... 400.00
PAYABLE ON ENTRANCE IN SEPTEMBER
Matriculation Fee (payable first year only)..........$	10.00
First Payment on Board and Tuition................... 250.00
Use of Gymnasium and Natatorium and admission to
intercollegiate games and contests throughout the
year................................................... 10.00	*
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	23
Special Lecture, Entertainment and Concert Course...	5.00
Library Fee......................................... 2.00
Spending money or orders for clothing will not be given
students unless a deposit has been made for this purpose.
In' this First Payment must also be included any Extra
Expense the Student may wish to incur, such as charges for
Private Room or Special Courses (listed below).
PAYABLE ON JANUARY 15
Balance on Board and Tuition. ,....................$150.00	'
and any extra expenses the student may have incurred.
No student will be entered for the second term whose account "
for the first term has not been adjusted.
No rebate will be allowed for time of absence at the opening
of the Terms, September and February. The charge of $400.00
covers the tuition fee, which is fixed at $100.00 per Scholastic
Year. The latter sum is accepted as an entirety for Tuition
during the Scholastic Year, and will not be refunded in whole
or part if the student be dismissed for wilful infraction of the
fundamental rules and regulations herein stated and hereby
brought to his notice; and so likewise in the event of his leaving
and absenting himself from the University at any time or for
any cause without proper permission. However, an exception
is made if it seems to be expedient for him to go to his home
because of severe or protracted illness. Degrees will not be
conferred on any student whose account with the University c
has not been settled.
OPTIONAL EXPENSES—PAYABLE IN ADVANCE
For the Scholastic Year:
&
PRIVATE ROOMS—
Seniors, Juniors, and Sophomores Free, but a nominal
charge of $15.00 is made to- defray expenses connected
with the care of rooms; Freshmen. . ...$50.00 and upwards.
It must be distinctly understood that reference is here made
only to Seniors, Juniors and Sophomores who bear no conditions;
that is to say, who have completed all the subjects in the
Preparatory and Freshman work, otherwirse regular rent will
24
BULLETIN OE THE
be charged for rooms. Similarly, only unconditioned Fresh-
men are allowed the special rate quoted above.
Preparatory Students
$80.00 and upwards
While students, as a rule, are advised to confine themselves
to the regular courses of the programs they have entered,
any of the following may be taken at the rate mentioned per
Scholastic Year, payable in advance. The charges are pro
rata for any portion of the year.
Instrumental Music—Lessons
on Piano and use of Instru-
Lessons on Guitar, Flute,
Cornet, Clarinet or Man-
ment...............$60.00
Use of Piano for Advanced
Students...........$30.00
Telegraphy............ 2	5.00
Typewriting, Full Course 20.00
One month........... 5.00
Phonography.......... 15.00
Applied Electricity... 25.00
Vocal Culture......... 75.00
dolin ............... 30.00
Lessons on Violin....... 60.00
*Use of each instrument 5.00
Artistic Drawing........ 25.00
Elocution,.Special Courseio.oo
1 ‘ Scholastic ’ ’— College
Paper................. 1.50
Physical Culture....... 5-oo
GRADUATION FEES
For all Courses leading to Bachelor Degrees, $10.00.
* As the string and band instruments available for rent are
few, students taking up these studies are advised to furnish
their own instruments.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	25
FACULTY OF SCHOOL OF JOURNALISM
JOHN M. COONEY, A. M.
JOURNALISM
Rev. MATTHEW WAESH, C. S. C.,
HISTORY
Rev. J. LEONARD CARRICO, C. S. C.,
ENGLISH
Rev. EUGENE BURKE, C. S. C.„
ENGLISH
Rev. THOMAS CRUMLEY, C. S. C.,
PSYCHOLOGY.
Rev. CORNELIUS J. HAGERTY, C. S. C.,
PHILOSOPHY.
Rev. CHARLES L. DOREMUS, C. S. C.,
FRENCH.
Rev. WILLIAM A. BOLGER, C. S. C„
political economy.
26
bulletin oe the
Rev. JOHN McGINN, c. s. c.,
SOCIOLOGY.
WILLIAM HOYNES, A. M., LL. D., K. S. G.,
.	LAW.
Rev. ERANCIS ZERHUSEN, C. S. C.,
GERMAN.
JAMES HINES, PH. B.
> *
history
EELIX JOSE ALONZO,
SPANISH.
JOHN DRURY,
’ ELOCUTION.
MAX PAM, LL. D.
LECTURER.
JAMES KEELEY,
LECTURER.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
27.
THE DEPARTMENT OF JOURNALISM
In no other profession is so fair an opportunity
presented for the exercise of all talents as in the
profession of Journalism. In no other profession,
generally speaking, is the influence of one’s work so
far-reaching. In no other profession does the exercise
of real talent win a recognition so quick and so wide-
spread.	.
Journalism, therefore, has always attracted ambitious
and gifted minds, and has secured, for many of these,
enviable places among the world’s great ones. There
is no reason to suppose that the opportunities open
to the capable journalist to-day are fewer or smaller
than they have been in the past; on the contrary,
considering the growing power of the press, the ever-
widening circle of those who read and the Special needs
of the times, we may believe that the opportunities
offered to the strong, gifted, trained and energetic
journalist are more real, more attractive and more
inspiring than they ever were before.
But for many reasons a journalist should have
special training. As the press sets itself up as, in some
ways, a public teacher, and is beyond doubt the most
powerful influence in moulding public opinion, news
paper men in both editorial and business departments,
should be well instructed and grounded in moral
principles as well as in technical knowledge. This is done
best in youth; and, in youth, is done best—not hap-
hazard—but by systematic training. Again, in practical
journalism, demand is made constantly for a wide
range of knowledge, and for a well trained mind; and
it is quite generally true,—as all active newspaper
men attest,—that, once caught up in the whirl of
newspaper making, the journalist finds that his best
28
BULLBTIN OB THB
opportunity for gaining these imperative qualifications,
is already past. A third practical consideration is,
that newspapers are coming, more and more generally,
to demand all trained men, since they are too busy
with other things nowadays to train up their own
recruits,—at least from the very fundamentals. The
reality and the insistence of this demand for trained
men have been at once proved and answered by the
establishment, in leading universities, of schools of
journalism.
******* '
The School of Journalism at the University of Notre
Dame was established in 1912, and was endowed by
Mr. Max Pam, of Chicago and New York. Mr Pam
said:% “I want the young men trained here to be lovers
of the truth and I feel that in a religious atmosphere
of this kind my purpose and objects will be more
steadily kept in view. I want them to be men of letters,
men of knowledge and sound views. I want them to be
men of conscience and of high ideals.” In other words,
conscience, character, knowledge, culture and high
aim are essentials of the training for which the founder
of the school hopes. They are also objects for which
the university has always striven, and which are a
constant purpose of the School' of Journalism as both
the course of studies and the methods of instruction
attest.
In accordance with Mr. Pam’s purpose in founding
this chair, the program is designed to prepare young
men technically for Journalism and at the same time
equip them with the essentials of a liberal education
It is hoped that graduates of this course will have
acquired such familiarity with the practical work of
newspaper making as will render their services imme-
diately valuable; at the same time they are required
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	29
to be well grounded not only in the ethics of their
profession, but in general philosophy, in language
study, in the principles of economics and in world
politics as well as the particular currents in the national
life of our own country. The course of studies pre-
scribed leads to the degree of Bachelor of Philosophy
in Journalism.
The entrance requirements are practically the same
as for the other departments in the College of Arts
and Tetters, but the Director of Studies shall have
power to admit as a special student any young man
who is believed capable of profiting by the work of the
course.
Practical experience in newspaper work will be fur-
nished by the course itself. There are opportunities '
for experience as local correspondents of the large
newspapers in Chicago, Detroit, Indianapolis, Pitts-
burgh, and other large cities. The Scholastic, a weekly
publication, founded in 1867 and issued at the Uni-
versity, affords excellent opportunity for editorial
writing and department work.
Mr. James Keeley, of the Chicago Herald, has been
Dean of the School of Journalism, ever since its
organization, and his wide experience and acknowledged
mastery of the profession have been of great value
to those who have active management of the work.
Mr. John M. Cooney, Director of the School and
Professor of Journalism, has had many years of ex-
perience both as editor and reporter. He has long been
a favorite professor at Notre Dame.
COURSES OF INSTRUCTION
(In the description of the courses of instruction an hour
means forty-five to sixty minutes in the recitation or
lecture room. A term means a half year, or eighteen
weeks.')
• >
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
31
STUDIES PRESCRIBED FOR THE DEGREE OF
BACHELOR OF PHILOSOPHY IN JOURNALISM
FRESHMAN YEAR
SUBJECTS: First Term	Hrs cl Wk	Course	SUBJECTS: Second Term	Hrs a Wk	Course
Journalism	4	I	Journalism	4	I
English	3	I’	English	3	I
Political Science	4	I	Political Science	4	I
History	4	la	History	4	I
Language*	5		Language*	5	
Elocution	i	III	Elocution	I	IV
SOPHOMORE YEAR
Journalism	4	II	J ournalism	4	II
English	3	II	English	3	II
Political Science	4	II	Political Science	4	III
Philosophy	4	I	Philosophy	4	II
History	4	II	Plistory	4	II
Elocution	i	VIII	Elocution	i	VIII
JUNIOR YEAR
Journalism	4	III	Journalism	4	III
English	3	III	English	3	III
Political Science	4	IV	Political Science	4	V
Philosophy	4	III, IV	Philosophy	4	V, VI
History	4	IV	History	4	IV
Elocution	i	VI	Elocution	i	VI
SENIOR YEAR
Journalism	4	IV	Journalism	4	IV
English	3	IV	English	3	IV
Business Law	4	V	Political Science	2	IX
Political Science	4	VII, VIII	Political Science	4	X or XI
Philosophy	4	VII	Philosophy	4	VIII
Elocution	i	VII	Elocution	i	VII
*Latin, French, German or Spanish.
32	bulletin oe the
JOURNALISM
I.
A brief survey of the field; metropolitan and'small
city dailies, country weekiles, class and trade papers;
magazines; also a general study of the nature, gather-
ing, reporting and writing of news; interviews; dra-
matic and other criticism; editorial writing; head writ-
ing and make up; organization of a newspaper staff.
[Ebur hours a week for two terms.]
II.
A detailed study of news and its handling, news
values, classes of news, newspaper style, forms of news
stories, interviews, criticism, features and special arti-
cles, with copious practice in actual assignments and
in correspondence; verification of principles by study
of fifty daily newspapers.
[Eour hours a week for two terms.]
III.
Newspaper fields and newspaper properties; equip-
ment; source of income; developing subscription and
advertising patronage; advertising rates; self adver-
tising; co-operation of editorial department; sources
-of expense; newspaper accounting.
Psychology of advertising; advertising mediums;
relation of advertising to distribution and price; its
social influence; good and bad copy; trade marks
elements in the advertising problem—the consumer,
the commodity, the medium, competition, timeliness;
publisher’s responsibility for advertising, the ethical
and the business view-point.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.] .
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
33-
IV.
Comparative Journalism; Capital and Labor Prob-
lems; Ethics of Journalism; Business Law; Laws
Affecting Publications; Newspaper Policy; Magazine
Writing; Class Journals.
[Pour hours a week for two terms.]
ENGLISH
I.
Genung’s Principles of Rhetoric. A study of the
complete text. Frequent practice in simple theme
work, versification. Writing in all literary forms and
assigned readings.*
[Three hours a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Essay and Oration. Intensive study.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Poetry and the Poets. Texts, theory and
critical study.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
III.
Fiction, (a) The Short Story, technically, historic-
ally and critically considered.
a [Three hours a week for one term.
* Every Freshman will be obliged to follow a class in correct
English, one hour a week, unless his written work gives evidence
that he may be dispensed from this special exercise. Any
student notably deficient in correct English will be obliged to
take this course.
34
BULLETIN OB THE ■
(b) The Novel, technically, historically and critic-
ally considered.
[Three hours a week for one term.]
Practice in writing in all literary forms and assigned
readings.
IV.
The Drama, (a) Historical Survey of the Drama.
Greek and Roman Dramatists. Liturgical, Morality
and Miracle Plays. Technique of the Drama.
[Three hours a week for fourteen weeks.]
(b)	Elizabethan Dramatists. Intensive study of
Shakespeare.
[Three hours a week for sixteen weeks.]
(c)	Modern Drama, from Sheridan to the present
time.
[Three hours a week for six weeks.]
Under all the subjects specified attention will be given
to current productions with a view of properly ac-
quainting the student with the writers of the day.
Graduate Work in English. Students wishing to do
advanced work in English will be provided with library
facilities and led through the usual work for the degree
of Master of Letters or Doctor of Philosophy.
The major subject on approval of the Eaculty of
English may be any special aspect of a literary form
or epoch, or a comparative study of related authors.
Seminar work, the study of texts, and special lectures
by professors make up the course.
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	35
POLITICAL SCIENCE
ECONOMICS
I.
The Elements of Economics. A general survey of
the subject based upon the study and discussion of
Seager’s Principles of Economics. The first part
of this course deals with the fndamental principles of
the abstract theory of economics. The second portion
of the work has to do with the application and exem-
plification of these principles. In this connection
attention is paid to the subject of money, credit and
banking, the labor movement, monopolies, the railroad
problem, socialism, taxation and plans of economic
reform. Supplementary readings and reports on current
discussions of these questions form an important part
of the work in this course.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
.	II.
The History of Economic Thought. The work in
this course is based on Haney’s History of Economic
Thought. After a resume of the economic ideas of
ancient Greece and Rome and the medieval period *
the work is divided into three sections; the first
dealing with the fragmentary notions preceding Adam
Smith and including the latter’s work and influence;
the second period deals with the classical school of
economists, particular attention being paid to the theo-
ries of Malthus, Mill and Ricardo—the dependence of
some of the modern movements on their theories is also
shown; the third has to do with the latter day econ-
omists. Political Science I. is a prerequisite for Course II.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
BULLETIN OF THE
III.
Money, Credit and Banking. This course first out-
lines the historical aspcet of money and of banking
and then takes the problems touching on these subjects.
Special attention is paid to the monetary experiences
of the United States and the present reforms under
consideration. The text-book used is Money and
Banking, White.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
IV.
Public Finance. This course begins with a brief
history of the different financial systems. The different
kinds of government expenditures are discussed, also
the sources of government income. The different
methods of taxation and the proposed reforms in these
methods are studied. Special attention is paid to
problems in the United States. The text-book used
is Introduction to Public Finance by C. C. Plehn.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
V.
Distribution. Lectures, readings and discussions on
the questions of wages, rent, interest and profits, and
the problems resulting from present notions in regard
to these matters. The text-book used is The Dis-
tribution of Wealth by Carver, supplemented by readings.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
XII.
Economic Development in the United States. The
purpose of this course is to bring before the student
the leading economic forces that have brought about
our present commercial and industrial conditions.
Special attention will be paid the financial history
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME
37
of the United States and to the physiographic features
of the country that have had to do with economic
development.
The study of Tconomic History will be largely
supplemented by the course in Money and Banking
and the treatment8of economic problems in History
III.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
XIII.
Railway Transportation. An elementary survey of
the whole field of railway transportation. Origin
and growth, social and economic influence of the
railway; theories of rate making; competition and
combination; public regulation; the work of the Inter-
state Commerce Commission; public regulation or
public ownership.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
XIV.
Industrial Organization and Combination. A general
survey of the development of the principal forms of
business organization; the single entrepeneur system,
the partnership, the joint stock company, the corpora-
tion; social and private advantages and disadvantages
of each form. Causes leading to the rise and develop-
ment of the trusts; the various forms of combination;
an examination of the remedies proposed for the solu-
tion of the trust problem. Text, Business Organiza-
tion and Combination, Haney.	.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
XV.
Business Law. This course deals briefly with con-
tracts, negotiable instruments, sale's, agency, partner-
ship, property, corporations, bailments and carriers,
38
BULLETIN OB THE
suretyship and guaranty. It is an elementary course
in law dealing particularly witli those subjects that
are more closely related to business and business
administration.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
POLITICS
VII.
The Elements of Politics. General survey. Text,
First Principles in Politics by Lilly.
[Tour hours a week for one term.]
VIII.
American Government and Politics. Text, Amer-
ican Government and Politics, by Beard.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
IX.
Jurisprudence. A course covering (a) the outlines
of the Science of Law. (b) The elements of Inter-
national Law. (c) Lectures on selected topics of Roman
and Canon Law. Lectures', readings, and examinations
on required texts.
[Two hours a week for one term.]
SOCIOLOGY
X.
The Elements of Sociology. Text, Sociology and
Modern Social Problems, by Ellwood.
A brief survey of elementary principles. The family
in its sociological aspects, its origin, forms, historical
development and the two great problems, divorce and
race suicide. The Negro Problem, Crime, Socialism in
the Light of Sociology.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
4
UNIVERSITY OR NOTRE DAME	39
_	XI.
Labor Problems and Socialism. Woman and Child
Labor, Immigration, The Sweating System, Poverty
and Unemployment are among the problems studied.
Labor Unionism, Strikes and Arbitration, Co-opera
tion, Socialism, Syndicalism and Labor Legislation are
among the remedial movements studied.
Text, Labor Problems Adams and Summer.
Graduate Work in Political Economy. Advanced
courses in economics, politics and sociology are pro-
vided for graduate students who wish to receive the
degree of Master or Doctor.
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
HISTORY
ANCIENT HISTORY
I.
(a)	Ancient Greece to the conquest by Rome of
the Hellenic world. Readings and examinations on
required texts.	*
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Ancient Rome to the Barbarian invasions.
Readings and examinations on required texts.
In both courses the student is required to become
familiar with the institutions of the ancient world, and
to study the same in De Coulanges’ “The Ancient City.”
[Pour hours a week for one term.]
MEDIEVAL AND MODERN HISTORY
II.
(a)	The History of Western Europe from the
Beginning of the Christian Era to 1648. The conflict
of Paganism and Christianity; the development of
40
BULLETIN OF THE
the Church; the invasion of the barbarians; these
form the principal topics of study before taking up the
periods of the Renaissance and the Reformation. Special
attention is given to the courses of the two great move-
ments and. their effects on the Political, Social, and
Religious history of Europe. Readings and examina-
tions on required texts.
(b)	The General History of Europe from the Close
of the Thirty Years’ War to the Present Time. In
this Course close attention is paid to the rise and
development of modern European countries. Careful
study is made of the economic development of Europe,
the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Era. The
work closes with a comparative study of the modern
European institutions. Readings and examinations
on required texts.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
III.
The History of the British Isles from the Roman
Invasion to the Present Time. For the narrative
Gardiner’s Student History is used as a text and
is supplemented by lectures. Special attention is given
to the study of the development of political institutions
as also to the progress of Economic thought in England.
Regular reports by students on special topics are
required.	.
[Four hours a week for two terms.]
AMERICAN HISTORY
IV.
(a)	American History from Its Beginning to the
Present Time. A large part of the work of this course
consists in the preparation and presentation in class
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
4i
of special topics by the students. An effort will be
made to train the student in the use of original sources
as well as in the discriminating use of secondary works.
Weekly written tests are given upon the lectures and
the assigned collateral reading.
[Four hours' a week for two terms.]
(b)	American Church History from Its Beginning
to the Present Time.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
IRISH HISTORY
V.
(a)	Irish History from the Earliest Colonists to the
Present Time. The purpose of the course is to acquaint
the student with the true story of Ireland by presenting
a statement of facts. Early Irish religious beliefs, cus-
toms, racial characteristics, systems of government are
discussed, and specific topics are assigned for research.
(b)	. A course of lectures on the modern Celtic
movement with a study of the modern Irish writers.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
POLISH HISTORY
VI.
History of the primitive Slavs. The Rise of the
Polish Nation. The Epoch of the Piast-Dynasty
(962-1386).
The Jagiellonian Epoch (1386-1572).
Poland during the rule of the Elector Kings (1572—
1795)-
Poland in its Partitions. From 1795 to the present
time. Polish Emigration.
42
BULLETIN OF THE
No particular text-book is used in this course. It
is a lecture-course; and the student is required to
read up the principal authors, along the line of the
notes gathered from the lectures in class.
Research Work in History. Facilities are offered
to graduate students who wish to do advanced work
in history leading to the Master’s or the Doctor’s
degree. Evidence of ability to begin specializing must
be given by candidates who have received their Bach-
elor’s degree at another College. The work is directed
in the seminar and is supplemented by lectures.
LANGUAGE
Any one of the following courses will fill the require-
ment for Language. Advanced work is given in these
languages. A special course in beginner’s Latin is pro-
vided for those who have had no Latin in their pre-
paratory course of studies.
GERMAN
A.
Grammar, Bacon. Reading of simple prose, plays,
poems; translation of-English exercises into German.
Reading of short stories and selections from more
difficult prose.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
FRENCH
I.
Grammar with written and oral exercises; the in-
flection of nouns and adjectives, the use of all the
pronouns, the conjugation of regular and common
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME	43
irregular verbs; the correct use of moods and tenses,
the essentials of French syntax, and the common
idiomatic phrases. Reading of three of the following
works: La Tache de Petit Pierre by Marriet; Un
Cas de Conscience by Gervais; La Main Malheureuse
by Guerber; Sans Famille by Malot; Readings from
French History by Super.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
SPANISH	<
I.
General outlines of grammar with composition.
Translation of easy tales froin Trueba, Fernon Caballero,
Perez Bscritch, etc., with select fables of Samaniego,
and Irate.
[Five hours a week for two terms.]
ELOCUTION AND ORATORY
I.
t
Readings and Declamations. This course is designed
to correct defects in pronunciation and emphasis. Bach
student is required to give two declamations.
. [One hour a week for one term.]
II.
T	_
Readings and Declamations. Continuation of Course
I. Bach student is required to give three declamations.
[One hour a week for one term.]
III.
Practical Elocution. Bxercises in breathing, voice
culture and action. The principles of pronunciation
and emphasis and their application in the reading of
44
bulletin of the
selections. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s Practical
Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
IV.
Practical Elocution. Further exercises in breathing,
voice culture, action. Quality, force, pitch and time
Minute speeches and declamations. Lectures on the
principles of action. Text-book, Fulton and Trueblood’s
Practical Elocution.
[One hour a week for one term.]
V.
Oral Discussions. The application of formal logic to
debating. Analysis of selected argumentative speeches,
and the preparation of briefs. Courses III. and IV. and
a course in logic are required for admission to this
course. Sections are limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for one term.]
VI.
Oratory. A study of the great orators of ancient
and modern times. Bach student is required to write
and deliver a biographical oration on one of the great
orators. Lectures on methods of public address. Courses
III. and IV. above, and Course I. in English are re-
quired for admission to this course. Sections are
limited to twenty-four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
VII.
Shakespearean Reading. The critical and artistic
reading of two of Shakespeare’s plays accompanied with
stage action. The students present the play by scenes
before the class. Courses III. and IV. are required for
admission to this course. Sections are limited to twenty-
four students.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
6
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
45
PHILOSOPHY
I.
(a)	Physiological Psychology. This course is a
fairly comprehensive treatment of the physical basis
of consciousness. Experimental and Descriptive Psy-
chology. The primary laws on consciousness; psycho-
physical methods and results.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
(b)	Laboratory Exercises. Experiments will be
conducted with special reference to their value as aids
to introspection. Sanford’s Manual of Experimental
Psychology; Titchener’s Experimental Psychology, Vol. I.
[One hour a week for two terms.]
II.
(a)	Elements of Epistemology. A study of the
Scholastic theory of knowledge in relation to the
teachings o’f Descartes, Leibnitz, Locke, Berkeley,
Hume, Kant and Spencer.	■
(b)	Logic. Text-book and lectures.
[Four hours a week for one term.]
III.
General Metaphysics. Transcendental concepts:
their value in different systems of philosophy.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
IV.
Cosmology. The fundamental concepts of natural
science in relation to Thomistic philosophy.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.] -
V.	.
Theodicy. The existence of God; His attributes.
His presence in the universe.	-
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
46
bulletin of the
.	VI.
Rational Psychology. The problems of the mind.
Nature, origin and destiny of the soul. The nature
and freedom of the will.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
VII.
Ethics. A thorough study of the general principles
underlying Ethics. Present day problems will be dis-
cussed in the light of these principles. A brief presenta-
tion of Sociology and Socialism will be given. The
instruction will be by text-book, lectures and consider-
able collateral reading’. •
[Four hours a week for twenty-seven weeks.]
VIII.
. The History of Philosophy. This course is intended
to give the student in consecutive form the principal
systems and philosophers in the Ancient, Medieval
and Modern periods. It will likewise serve as a review
of the subjects treated in the general course of Philos-
ophy. Philosophic Movements of the present day and
writers of note in present philosophic thought will be
discussed.
[Four hours a week for nine weeks.]
' Student Discussions. From time to time throughout
the year students will be required to read and discuss
papers on various subjects in the field of philosophic
‘ inquiry.
Graduate Work in Philosophy. Graduate work in
the department of philosophy, leading to the degree
of Master or Doctor, may be undertaken by students
who have pursued the course described above. Can-
didates who have made undergraduate studies else-
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
47
where must give evidence of ability to begin specializing
at once. In the first and second years, research work
will be conducted in the seminar and the psychological
laboratory. In the first year, students will have the
benefit of frequent consultation with the professors.
SPECIAL LECTURES
In addition to the work outlined above, students in
journalism have the advantage of hearing special
lectures from practical experts, many of whom are
prominent nationally in the newspaper field. Among
recent lecturers were such men as James Keeley, of the
Chicago Herald', Slason Thompson and Harvey Wood-
ruff, of the Chicago Tribune', James O’Shaughnessy,
of the O’Shaughnessy Advertising Co.; Dr. John Talbot
Smith, Miss Katherine E. Conway, C. N. Bassett,
Editor, and Hugh Allen, till recently Managing Editor
of the South Bend News-Times, R. M. Hutchinson,
Editor of the South Bend Tribune', and William H.
Eield, Business Manager of the Chicago Tribune. These
lectures are customarily followed by a general discussion
in which the lecturer leads but in which the students
take part freely. It is unnecessary, of course, to point
out the value of these lectures and discussions.
SOCIETIES
The Pam Club, the Pad and Pencil Club and the
James Keeley Club are three societies of students of
Journalism the purposes of which, are practically
indentical, but which maintain separate existence on
lines of class demarcation. These societies meet weekly.
At the meetings, original papers or debates are heard,
and then discussed, usually under the direction of a
professor in the School of Journalism. Social features
are also a part of both clubs’ activities.
48
bulletin of the
THE READING TABLE
The Department of Journalism receives regularly
about fifty representative dailies, about twenty weeklies,
a few class periodicals and nearly all of those weeklies
and monthlies devoted to the profession or business of
publishing or printing. The study of these journals
is an integral part of the course, and, it should be
added, a very practical and interesting part. Every-
thing available upon the subject is to be found in the
library of the department, and no effort is spared to
secure from all sources the latest and best that appears.
This furnishes the matter for supplementiary reading,
a part of which is obligatory in the course.
*
STUDENT-CORRESPONDENTS.
Opportunity is offered to all students, as soon as
they are competent, to act as correspondents for the
press. This contact with the active newspaper-world
serves to vitalize the theories of the class-room and,
at the same time, to prove their value. Already a number
of these student-correspondents have won substantial
appreciation from the largest and best edited newspapers