
PUBLISHED BY THE FIRST CLASS OF THE UNITED STATES NAVAL RESERVE MIDSHIPMEN’S SCHOOL
NOTRE DAME; INDIANA
■MrS
L'
fi
The First Class of the U.S.N.R. Midshipmen's School
respectfully dedicates this book to
Captain Henry P. Burnett, U.S.N.
Our Commanding Officer

^ropeujop
“. . . On October 5, 1942, the name of the Naval Training
School (V-7 Indoctrination), Notre Dame University, will be
changed to the U.S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School . . .”
Randall Jacobs.
This book attempts to record a series of impressions—the pictures, experiences
and ideas of one thousand two hundred and fifty-two college men who during the
past four months have labored to prepare themselves to take their places as officers
in the Navy of the United States.
You’ve met all these men, before—you cheered them on the gridirons of their
alma maters, you bought insurance from them and produce from their farms. You’ve
read their newspaper columns and ridden in the cars they built in the factories—they
were your neighbors at Peace, but now their business is War.
On the eve of graduation of the First Glass from this School it is the pleasure and
privilege of the Executive Officer to compliment the Class on a job “Well Done.”
Yours is no rosy future in the winning of this war—it’s just hard and dirty work sink-
ing Jap ships and German U-boats1until the sea is cleared for all free men. It’s up to
you and we know you’ll come through with the traditional spirit of all Naval Officers.
Lieutenant Commander Richard Wagner, U.S.N. (Ret.)
[8]
bcm
ap
enry.

Barnett
. respected and admired by all”
Notre Dame has long been known for the prowess_
of its teams. In time past its men hit the line hard
and under the guidance of Knute Rockne its tackles
were feared on every gridiron. But the tackles that
are now talked about on campus are different from
those of the past. Rockne has gone but in his place
stands another whose work, like that of the departed
coach, is to prepare teams who will also hit the line
hard and make their goals and score their touch-
downs over their opponents.
The new teams are in good hands. The man at
the helm knows how to steer. He has played the
game which he is teaching for a generation. When
he arrived at Notre Dame as Commanding Officer of
the U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s School he felt
at home at once. For the University’s colors of blue
and gold brought back to Captain Henry P. Burnett’s
memory the blue and gold which as a midshipman
he saw when he entered the U. S. Naval Academy
at Annapolis in 1911.
Captain Burnett has sailed far since those days
when as a young Kentuckian he embarked upon his
course. He was born in Shelbyville in 1893, the year
that Charles Duryea tested America’s first gasoline
buggy. The next year, Japan, already an aggressor
nation, attacked China and in a short war won for it-
self the Liaotung Peninsula and the Island of Formosa.
Yet war seemed far away from the United States
when young Burnett entered the Naval Academy in
the spring of 1911. It is true that Italy and Turkey
were fighting but Europe was distant at that time
when it took a hardy airman 84 actual flying hours
to span the continent. But before Midshipman
Burnett’s class was graduated, the Germans had in-
vaded Belgium and the rumble of cannons began to
be heard on this side of the yvater. The same year
that he tossed his cap in the air at Annapolis the
British had scored a naval victory off Dogger Bank,
the submarine was bringing the war closer to our
shores and the Lusitania was sunk.
Within two years of the time that Ensign Burnett
was graduated he was commissioned a lieutenant,
junior grade, but he never wore the stripe and a half
for he was off on fleet maneuvers, and when he
walked down the gangplank of the Maine he was a
full lieutenant.
In the meantime we had entered the war and as
Communications Officer he sang “Anchors Aweigh”
when the Pennsylvania, the flagship of Admiral Mayo,
Commander in Chief of the U.S. Fleet, sailed. The
duties of the Navy during the last war were light com-
pared to those today. The modern development of
both sea and air power, which Captain Burnett saw
happen while he was in service, transfer the burden
of the present conflict upon our sea forces.
Outstanding in the Captain’s glamorous Navy ca-
reer is the long and arduous time he spent in sub-
marine duty during the period from 19^3 to 1930.
But he refrains from beginning to discuss this phase
of his life because his adventures were so many and
various that they could fill books.
In 1925 Lieutenant Burnett was made a Lieutenant
Commander and did duty with our destroyer force
in the Pacific. Two years later he became a member
of the United States Naval Mission in Lima. He
roamed through the narrow streets of Peru’s capitol,
he met people and he drove down to its port of Callao.
During those years he learned much about our
Latin American neighbors so that he was no stranger
when, in command of the Wickes in Nicaragua, he
was sent to Salvador to assist in putting down a
Communist uprising. Three years later he became
a Commander and last year a Captain.
At 49, Captain Burnett is a typical Navy man.
Perhaps his figure is not quite as trim as it was when
he trod the deck of the Pennsylvania. But his present
duties are confining and his “Navy belt” has stretched
since he has not been able to play his indifferent game
of golf. All his life he has been devoted to athletics
and he still remains a football fan who also scans
eagerly the baseball and basketball scores.
Despite the fact that he does not get his usual out-
door exercise, his oval face retains its tan and the tiny
wrinkles etched by the wind and sun and rain. His
complexion makes his graying hair seem grayer and
brings out the blueness of his eyes which, when he
speaks, twinkle and betray his sense of humor.
Although he has given orders a large part of his life,
he still has the soft drawling tone characteristic of that
part of the country from which he hails. His quiet
manner, however, does not hide his energy while his
magnetism has made him a favorite with the people
of South Bend.
The prospective ensigns regard their Captain with
respect and admiration, and he, in turn, considers
them as the finest lot of boys to be found in this
country and is confident that every one will continue
the glorious tradition of the American Navy. No
greater confidence can be placed on anyone than this.
S. J. Woolf
•1


u.

Jlf
J
rigs*?

s
Lt. Comdr. Richard Wagner, U.S.N. (Ret.)
Executive Officer
Sr
Early in September, 1942, the new Executive Offi-
cer reported here and immediately turned-to on the
many detailed tasks which arise in organizing a Mid-
shipmen’s School. This was not a new task for Lieu-
tenant Commander Richard Wagner, U.S. Navy, as
he was called from retirement to help organize the
first Midshipmen’s School of World War II on board
the U.S.S. Illinois.
Having previously studied to be an engineer, the
Commander was graduated with honors from the
U. S. Naval Academy in 1927. In the years that
followed at sea he served on a battleship, destroyers,
two heavy cruisers, and on the staffs of ComScoFor
and ComCrusUS. His duties varied from Spot I of
a new cruiser to Engineer Officer of a destroyer and
included staff work, torpedoes, catapults, radio and
even a bit of aviation.
He retired several years ago, following an accident,
and entered civilian life to become the Commandant
of a boys’ naval preparatory school. Recalled to
active duty in July, 1940, he became the Administra-
tive Aide of the U. S. Naval Reserve Midshipmen’s
School in New York and served there continuously,
during its organization and expansion until trans-
ferred to Notre Dame.
lutions, earthquakes, rescues of shipwrecks at sea, fires
and accidents . . . but none of these thrills could com-
pare with the pleasure I had in receiving my orders
to come back into the Navy to serve in World War
II,” Commander Wagner declares.

[12]
“Find out who’s in charge.”
^xecLitiue
[13]
■YWH
Lt. Comdr. Charles W. Myers, U.S.N.R.
After graduating from the Naval Academy in 1922,
Mr. Myers served as a junior turret officer aboard the
U. S. S. Arizona for twenty-one months. He re-
signed from the Navy in 1924 and became a distribu-
tor of petroleum products. Mr. Myers applied for
active duty in December, 1941, and received his
orders in February, 1942. As Senior Watch Officer,
he heads the discipline department here. Mr. Myers
was promoted to Lt. Comdr, in November, 1942.
Lt. Kenneth I. C. Keepers, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Keepers, materiel officer here since the early
days of the school, was graduated from the U. S. Naval
Academy in 1927, and resigned from the Navy the
same year. He was called to active duty in 1940.
Mr. Keepers was ordered to temporary duty at Pensa-
cola, Florida, and then to Corpus Christi, Texas.
Transferred to the Naval Reserve aviation base at
Dallas, Mr. Keepers was officer in charge of the cadet
regiment. He was ordered to Notre Dame from Dallas.
Lt. Clarence N. Springer, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Springer began his career in the Navy as an
apprentice seaman. After four months’ training at
Great Lakes in 1928, he boarded the destroyer U. S. S.
Mareno. While at sea he was trainer on a broadside
gun and mess cook for the chief petty officers. He
took examinations for entrance to the Naval Academy
and was appointed in July, 1929, graduating in 1933.
He was employed by the Standard Oil'Company of
Indiana in August, 1942, when he was called to duty.
Ensign Harold B. Miller, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Miller, communications officer, was an adver-
tising executive before entering communications
school at Great Lakes, where he was commissioned in
January, 1942. He reported at Notre Dame in March,
1942. Mr. Miller is aide to the Executive Officer,
ship’s secretary, and administrator of outgoing and
incoming messages. He was graduated from the Uni-
versity of Illinois in 1936, having majored in psy-
chology. His home is in Chicago.
[14]
Lt. (j.g.) Albert P. Brown, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Brown, First Battalion officer, is a native of
Texas. He attended Southern Methodist, where he
participated in all major varsity sports. He captained
the varsity baseball and basketball teams. Mr. Brown
graduated in 1929 with a B. S. degree in business ad-
ministration. In civilian life he was an accountant,
and was a chief accountant at the time of his entrance
into the Navy. He was commissioned in January,
1942. This is his first station.
Lt. (j.g.) Joseph B. Kirby, U.S.N.R.
Notre Dame is not unfamiliar to Mr. Kirby, Second
Battalion officer. He was graduated from the uni-
versity in 1931 with a major in foreign commerce.
He is best remembered by Notre Dame students as a
boxing champion on several Fighting Irish teams.
Mr. Kirby was commissioned April 1, 1942. He was
appointed Second Battalion officer the day we ar-
rived for indoctrination training.
Ensign James Crawford, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Crawford, formerly Third Battalion command-
ing officer and at present ship service officer at Gulf-
port, Miss., graduated from Georgia Tech in 1935
with a degree in commerce. Between the time he left
college and the time he was commissioned in April,
1942, Ensign Crawford was employed as traveling
supervisor by an accounting corporation. Commis-
sioned at Atlanta, Georgia, Ensign Crawford was sent
to Notre Dame in May for six weeks of indoctrination.
Lt. Edwards C. Fant, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Fant, Fourth Battalion officer and Athletic
Officer, left civilian life as an automobile dealer in
Memphis, Tenn., to receive his commission as a
lieutenant (j.g.) in April, 1942. He graduated from
Georgia Tech in 1929, his major having been business
administration. Mr. Fant’s battalions have won
three out of four battalion competitions, which are
judged on the basis of drill, room inspection, athletic
competition, and aptitude.
[15]

Lt. David J. Lloyd, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Lloyd, head of the Navigation Department, graduated from the U. S. Naval Academy
in 1924. There he was on the varsity boxing team, representing the academy in the 118
pound class. Shortly after graduation, Mr. Lloyd left the Navy. As a civilian he was at
various times a sales engineer and sales manager. In May, 1942, he was recalled to active
service as head of the mathematics department at Notre Dame, while it served as an indoc-
trination center. With the establishment of the midshipmen’s school at Notre Dame, Mr.
Lloyd was ordered to head the Navigation Department.
Lt. (j.g.) Walter O. Gollnick, U.S.N.R.
Commissioned in May, 1942, Mr. Gollnick
was ordered to Notre Dame in October after
receiving training at Harvard and aboard the
U. S. S. Prairie State. A graduate of Middle-
bury College in 1928 with a major in mathe-
matics, he spent much of his time teaching
and coaching athletics. In 1940 he received
his master’s degree in education and mathe-
matics at Marquette.
Lt. (j.g.) Philip A. Swart, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Swart attended Oberlin, receiving his
A. B. degree in 1938. He played on Oberlin’s
football, basketball, tennis, and swimming
teams. Following his graduation, he taught
mathematics and physical education. In 1940,
Mr. Swart entered the Reserve Midshipmen’s
School at Annapolis, and went to the Fleet in
July, 1941. In September, 1942, he was ord-
ered here.
Lt. (j.g.) Richard C. Tefft, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Tefft graduated from Union College in
1933 with a B. S. degree in civil engineering
and several football letters. He has done grad-
uate work at Syracuse, Rochester and Cornell.
From 1933 to 1942 Mr. Tefft taught high
school mathematics. He was commissioned
in July, 1942 and sent to Harvard, and from
there he was transferred to Columbia. He
was ordered here in October, 1942.
Lt. (j.g.) Charles F. Vent, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Vent was an air conditioning engineer
in Chicago before he was commissioned on
June 20, 1942. He graduated from Kenyon
College in 1931 with the degree of Ph. B. Mr.
Vent spent two months at the U. S. S. Prairie
State, and taught for six weeks at the Columbia
University Midshipmen’s School before he was
ordered to Notre Dame in November.
[18]

Ensign William J. Hussong, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Hussong was commissioned in April,
1942, and after training at U. S. S. Prairie Stale,
came to Notre Dame in July. He graduated
from Washington and Jefferson College in
1938 with a B. S. degree in mathematics and
a Phi Beta Kappa key. He taught mathe-
matics before receiving his commission.
Ensign Thomas C. Roberts, U.S.N.R.
A graduate of New York State Teachers’
College, class of ’39, Mr. Roberts received his
A. B. degree in education. While at college
he played varsity basketball. He entered the
Naval Reserve on July 1, 1942, and received
his training at the Reserve Training School at
Columbia University in New York.
Ensign Myron G. Collette, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Collette attended the University o
Maine, receiving his A. B. degree in physics
in 1936. Mr. Collette won letters in football,
basketball, baseball, and track. He taught
science and coached high school football for
six years before receiving his commission, in
1942. In July, 1942, Mr. Collette was or-
dered here as an instructor in mathematics.
Ensign Albert J. Whiteman, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Whiteman was the Benjamin Peirce
mathematics instructor at Harvard when the
war called him into the Navy. He was com-
missioned on May 31, 1942, spent an indoc-
trination period at Harvard and taught Navi-
gation at the U. S. S. Prairie State for two
months before coming to Notre Dainc. He
was graduated from the University of Pcnnsyl-
viana in 1937 with an A. B. degree.
Ensign George J. Lovett, Jr., U.S.N.R.
Mr. Lovett graduated from Boston College
in 1936, receiving his A. B. degree in physics
and mathematics. A year later he took his
master’s degree in education. From 1937 to
1941, Mr. Lovett taught physics and math.
He entered the Navy as an ensign in June,
1942. In July, he was ordered to Notre Dame.
Ensign Eric F. Gardner, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Gardner graduated from Harvard in
1935. While at college he played varsity
basketball and tennis, and later coached tennis
at Harvard. Mr. Gardner also distinguished
himself scholastically, winning the Lawrence
and Mathews Awards and election to Phi
Delta Kappa. Commissioned in 1942, he
came here from Prairie State.
[ 19]
Ensign George M. Hearne, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Hearne attended Centenary College,
graduating in 1941 with an A. B. degree in
economics. He began graduate work at Texas
University but left to enter the Navy. Mr.
Hearne received his indoctrination training at
Notre Dame as a V-7. He went to the Reserve
Midshipmen’s School at Abbott Hall, receiv-
ing his commission in October, 1942.
Ensign Gordon Alfred Hardy, U.S.N.R.
A composer of music, Mr. Hardy reported
to Notre Dame as a V-7 trainee on July 6,
1942 and was commissioned at Abbott Hall
in October. Not content with A. B. and
Bachelor of Music degrees from Michigan
University in 1941, he has worked on his
M. S. degree in composition and theory of
music. He directed the Union Opera several
times on the campus.
Ensign Robert L. Austin, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Austin graduated from the University
of Indiana in 1942, rccciving an A. B. degree
in government and history. He was elected
to Phi Delta Phi, and was a member of the
varsity track team. Upon graduation he en-
tered the Navy through the V-7 program, re-
ceiving his training at Abbott Hall. He was
ordered here upon receiving his commission.
Ensign James J. Meaders, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Meaders started his Navy career as a
V-7 trainee at Notre Dame in July and was
commissioned at Abbott Hall on October 21,
1942. In his undergraduate days at Midland
College, he was a member of Blue Key, listed
in Collegiate Who’s Who, played varsity foot-
ball, and was captain of the school’s track
team. He received a B. S. degree in 1942.
Ensign Duncan H. Baird, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Baird graduated from Yale, receiving
his A. B. in 1939. He then went to Michigan
University Law School, receiving his L. L. B.
in 1942. He had planned to attend Pembroke
College, England, but immediately after grad-
uation from Law School, Mr. Baird entered
the Naval Reserve via V-7. He went to the
Reserve Midshipmen’s School at Abbott Hall
and received his commission in October.
Ensign Richard K. Smith, U.S.N.R.
Last July, Mr. Smith left his Clarion, Iowa,
law business to enter the Navy, taking his V-7
training at Notre Dame. He was commissioned
at Abbott Hall in October. High honors were
conferred upon Mr. Smith when he was grad-
uated from the University of Iowa Law School
in 1941. He reported here shortly after re-
ceiving his commission.
[20]
I
“Signal ’‘we're awfully sorry', then let 'em have it."
Ordnance
[21 ]

Lt. William P. Burleigh, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Burleigh came to Notre Dame in October from Abbott Hall to become head of the
Department of Ordnance. He graduated from the first World War I Reserve Midshipmen’s
School and was on active duty from December, 1917 until March, 1926, when he resigned.
During this period he served as gunnery officer on three gunboats and with the Naval Overseas
Transportation Service in World War I as communications officer. In February, 1942, he
was recalled to duty. From February to October he was a member of the Ordnance De-
partment at Abbott Hall.
Lt. Ralph C. Urban, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Urban is an expert on ship models. He
is the ship model consultant for the New Bed-
ford, Penobscot and Salem marine museums
and is secretary-treasurer of the New York
Ship Lore and Model Society. Mr. Urban,
who was commissioned in May, 1942, was
graduated from the Cooper Union Institute
of Technology with a degree in chemical
engineering.
Lt. (j.g.) George R. Brines, U.S.N.R.
A graduate of Illinois Wesleyan, Mr. Brines
entered Abbott Hall’s first V-7 training course.
Following a one-month apprentice seaman’s
cruise to Cuba aboard the U. S. S. Arkansas
and three months’ midshipman training, he
was commissioned in June, 1941. After
graduation he was stationed in Chicago as
vocational training officer and first lieutenant.
He was transferred here in April, 1942.
Lt. Ernest H. Dunlap, Jr., U.S.N.
“Remember Pearl Harbor” is more than a
war slogan to Mr. Dunlap. When the Japs
struck, he commanded a secondary battery
which “got a few Japs.” He wears the Navy
Cross, awarded for carrying wounded men
from a casemate although wounded himself.
He reported to Notre Dame in April, 1942.
Lt. Dunlap graduated from the Naval
Academy in 1939.
Lt. (j.g.) Bradamore Brouillette, U.S.N.R.
A graduate of Southern Illinois Normal, Mr.
Brouillette was a member of the initial V-7
class at Abbott Hall, receiving his commission
in June, 1941. He was first attached to the
Indianapolis radio training school and was
ordered to Notre Dame last March. He was
promoted to the rank of lieutenant (j.g.) in
June, 1942.
[22]
Lt. (j.g.) Louis Rauchman, U.S.N.R.
A graduate of the University of Cincinnati,
majoring in business administration, Mr.
Rauchman entered the service in August, 1940.
He took a midshipman’s cruise aboard the
U. S. S. Arkansas, finished V-7 training at
Abbott Hall, and was commissioned in June,
1941. He was stationed at the Naval Armory
at Toledo, Ohio, before coming to Notre Dame.
Ensign Charles W. Fotis, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Fotis was graduated from Tufts College
in 1937. He won a Master’s degree in educa-
tion at Harvard in 1939 and was an instructor
at the Dean Academy of Franklin, Mass.,
when war was declared. Commissioned on
July 22, 1942, he was first assigned to the
U. S. S. Prairie Slate, then to the Midshipman
School at Columbia University. He was
ordered to Notre Dame on November 22.
Lt. (j.g.) Austin J. Kennedy, Jr., U.S.N.R.
A graduate of the Naval Academy, class of
1942, but ordered to duty in December, 1941,
Mr. Kennedy has been teaching at Notre Dame
since March, 1942. Prior to coming to Notre
Dame, Mr. Kennedy was ordered to duty at
Norfolk, Va. Before going to the Naval
Academy he attended The Citadel. He was
appointed to Annapolis from South Carolina.
Ensign John L. Crowley, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Crowley left his position as law secretary
to the Chief Justice of the Massachussetts
Supreme Court to enter the Navy in July,
1942. Mr. Crowley received his B. A. degree
from Brown in 1937, and an L. L. B. from
Harvard Law School in 1940. He was com-
missioned at Abbott Hall last October.
Lt. (j.g.) Robert M. Palmer, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Palmer graduated from the Naval
Academy in December, 1941. He was sta-
tioned at the San Diego Naval Base before
reporting to Notre Dame in March, 1942. In
addition to his teaching duties in the Ordnance
Department he is general recreation coordi-
nator, guiding such successes as the Happy
Hour, the Drum and Bugle Corps, the Glee
Club, and the Dance Band.
Ensign Raymond H. Austin, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Austin received his A. B. degree from
Hardin-Simmons in 1939 and an M. A. from
Indiana University in 1940. He has been in
the Navy since July 6, 1942, having been com-
missioned at Abbott Hall. He reported to
Notre Dame on October 26. Before his en-
listment he was an accountant with the Phelps-
Dodge Corp., at Bisbee, Ariz.
[23]


Ensign James E. Bates, Jr., U.S.N.R.
Mr. Bates comes from Muskogee, Okla.,
“Indian Capital of the World.” He entered
the Navy in the July, 1942, midshipman class.
Mr. Bates was trained at Notre Dame and
Abbott Hall. Before joining the Navy, he was
head of the personnel department at Pinecliff
Arsenal. He graduated from the University
of Oklahoma in 1939.
Ensign Robert Sundene, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Sundene graduated from Northwestern
in 1938 with a B. S. degree in commerce. .Until
1941, he was a superintendent of construction
work in Chicago. Until July, 1942, he was.
engaged in engineering and construction in-
spection at the Savanna Ordnance Depart-
ment Proving Ground, Illinois. He was as-
signed to Notre Dame after receiving his
commission at Abbott Hall in October.
Ensign Mayford L. Roark, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Roark is one of the graduates of the
July midshipman class at Abbott Hall. He
graduated from the University of Colorado in
1940, and received his master’s degree in
public administration the next year. While
at the University of Colorado, Mr. Roark was
president of his senior class, and he is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa.
Ensign Harvey T. Sorensen, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Sorensen is a graduate of Wittenberg
College. While in college he was a member
of Blue Key, national honor society, and Delta
Sigma Phi fraternity. Before enlisting in the
Naval Reserve and receiving his commission
at Abbott Hall this year, he was an agency
auditor for the General Electric Corp.
Ensign Arthur N. Turner, U.S.N.R.
With B. A. and L. L. B. degrees from Wash-
burn College, Mr. Turner was an attorney in
Topeka before entering the Navy. At Wash-
burn, Mr. Turner served two terms as secre?
tary-treasurer of the law school, and was a
member of Delta Theta Phi. He was assigned
to Notre Dame, where he had spent his own
indoctrination period, after being commis-	.
sioned at Abbott Hall in October.	'
Ensign Earl D. Murphy, U.S.N.R.
Commissioned October 21, 1942, at Abbott
Hall, Mr. Murphy was assigned directly to
the Ordnance Department at Notre Dame.
Mr. Murphy received his B. A. degree from
Occidental college in 1939, and an L. L. B.
from the Harvard Law school in 1942.
[24]
sa
Lt. J. Kenworthy Lord, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Lord, head of the Seamanship Department, was a member of the class of 1924 at
the U. S. Naval Academy. Ships and the Navy have been Lieutenant Lord’s hobby ever
since he obtained his first summer job at Cramp’s shipyard in 1914. He enlisted in 1918
and served at Newport, Rhode Island, during World War I. He was appointed to the
Naval Academy from the service. After resigning from the Navy, he taught for a year in
Philadelphia, then spent a year in the sales department of the Electric Storage Battery Co.
For-the last 15 years Mr. Lord was an automobile dealer in his native state of Pennsylvania.
In-April, 1942, he was commissioned in the Naval Reserve and ordered to duty at Notre Dame.
Lt. Thomas A. Waage, U.S.N.R. ,
Mr. Waage was a member of the first Rc-
serve Midshipmen’s School during World War
I. He made twenty-one round trips to foreign
shores on Navy transports, and served on
many types of ships. One of his commanding
officers was Admiral W. D. Leahy. In March,
1942, Lieutenant Waage was recalled to
service. He was an instructor in seamanship
at Abbott Hall before coming here.
Lt. Haralson.F. Smith, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Smith graduated from the Naval Aca-
demy in 1925, and served aboard the U. S.S .
Mississippi under Capt. (now Adm.) Thomas
C. Hart until May, 1927. He was then trans-
ferred to the U. S. S. Sapclo. He resigned
zfrom the Navy in March, 1928. Mr. Smith
served with the U.S.N.R. from 1928 until 1933.
He was called from his insurance business in
April, 1942, and reported here for active duty.
Lt. John R. Grandfield, U.S.N.R.
A graduate of New York U., Mr. Grand-
field taught in the vocational high schools of
New York City for six years before receiving
his commission in 1942. His first assign- '
ment was as an instructor at a Naval Com-
munications School. Lt. Grandfield was with
the European squadron from 1923 to 1927
‘:on the other side of the quarterdeck,”
serving on the old U. S. S. Pittsburgh.
Lt. (j.g.) Paul H. Johnston, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Johnston received his B.’A. from Man-
chester College, and his M. A. from Columbia.
Until he began his indoctrination course at
Northwestern in December, 1941, Mr. John-
ston taught Commercial Education. After re-
ceiving his commission in April, 1942, he spent
two months in Philadelphia and one month
as an instructor at the Naval Training School
at Dartmouth before coming to Notre Dame.
[26 1


Lt. (j.g.) George W. Grotts, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Grotts was principal of the Community
High School of Brownstown, Ill., before re-
ceiving his commission last August. His first
assignment was at the Columbia University .
Midshipmen’s School and he .was ordered to
Notre Dame on Nov. 21. Mr. Grotts received
an A. B. degree in 1929 from Lincoln College,
Illinois, and was awarded an M. S. in 1939 at
the University of Illinois.
Lt. (j.g.) Herbert J. Langen, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Langen graduated from Wisconsin State
Teachers’ College in 1939. He taught mathe-
matics in East Dubuque High School, Illinois,
until he enlisted in the Navy in 1941. When
he was commissioned at Abbott Hall, Mr.
Langen was ordered to Great Lakes. In March,
1942, he reported to Notre Dame to teach In-
doctrination Math and Seamanship.
Lt. (j.g.) Kenneth G. Pearce, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Pearce, head of the Damage Control
Section of the Seamanship Department, gradu-
ated from the Naval Academy in 1934. He
resigned from the Navy after graduation and
from 1934 to 1942 was employed as a me-
chanical and construction engineer by a Tulsa,
Okla., oil firm. Mr. Pearce was ordered to
Notre Dame for active duty in September, 1942.
Lt. (j.g.) Lauren F. Chamberlain, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Chamberlain attended Wabash College,
where he starred in boxing and football. He
reached the finals of his division in the annual
Golden Gloves Boxing tournament. Upon re-
ceiving his commission from Abbott Hall in
1941, Mr. Chamberlain was ordered to Great
Lakes. After six months at that post, he was
ordered to Notre Dame.
Ensign Bruce P. Hayden, U.SlN.R.
Mr. Hayden attended the U. S. Naval Aca-
demy. When defective eyesight forced him to
retire after graduation in 1938, he left behind
him a notable record as sports editor of “The
Log,” chairman" of the Press detail, and photog-
rapher for the 1938 “Lucky Bag.” Until re-
called by the Navy in December, 1941, Mr.
Hayden was in the insurance business. He
reported to Notre Dame in March, 1942.
Ensign John L. Brownley, U.S.N.R.
A lawyer before entering the Navy, Mr.
Brownley received his college training at
Houghton College, and his law degree from
Brooklyn Law School in 1930. He received
his commission in May, 1942. Mr. Brownley
taught Ordnance in the Naval Training
School at Dartmouth College, until he was
ordered to Notre Dame in October.
127]
Ensign John H. Thomas, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Thomas graduated from Oklahoma U.
in June, 1941, with an engineering degree. He
followed his profession for one year, then re-
turned to Oklahoma U. as an instructor of en-
gineering, remaining there until he entered
the Navy. Following indoctrination at the
U. S. S. Prairie Stale, Mr. Thomas was com-
missioned on May 4, 1942. On July 15, he
reported to Notre Dame.
Ensign Lawrence G. Engel, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Engel attended Columbia University,
receiving his B. S. in 1-940 and his M. A. in
1941. His specialties were political science
and education. Joining , the staff of one of
New York’s largest stores, Mr. Engel rose to
the position of department head. He re-
ceived his commission in October, 1942, at
the U. S. S. Prairie State.
Ensign Harlen J. Bedell, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Bedell was graduated from Illinois
Wesleyan College in 1937 with a B. S. degree.
He was active in sports while in college, win-
ning varsity letters in football, basketball, and
track. Commissioned in June, 1942, he spent
a two-month indoctrination period at Cornell
University, was first assigned to the Midship-
man School at Columbia University, and came
to Notre Dame in November.
Ensign Henry T. Emerson, U.S.N.R.
A lawyer, Mr. Emerson came to Notre Dame
with several of his class mates from the Colum-
bia Reserve Midshipmen’s School. He re-
ceived his Bachelor of Arts degree from Yale
in 1939, where he played varsity soccer. Ln
1942 Mr. Emerson received his L. L. B. from
Harvard Law School. He was commissioned
in October, 1942.
Ensign Joseph W. Frament, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Frament was graduated from New York
State Teachers’ College at Albany in 1940. He
played tennis and captained the basketball
team. Upon graduation, he taught in the
high schools of Albany. Mr. Frament re-
ceived his commission in October, 1942, at
Columbia University Midshipmen’s School, .
and was ordered to Notre Dame as a Damage
Control and Seamanship instructor.
Ensign Edward G. Hotchkiss, .U.S.N.R.
Mr. Hotchkiss graduated from Yale, where
he played baseball and later managed the team
through several successful seasons. He was
Priorities Director with the Truck Treader Co.
of America before joining the Navy. He was
ordered to Notre Dame after receiving his
commission at U. S. S. Prairie State.
[28]
1
lim. ■ -Tnt-—*— -:——----——
Ensign Thomas J. Sandke, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Sandke was a steel priority supervisor
before entering the Navy. A native of Illinois,
he was graduated from Pennsylvania State Col-
lege and the Central Y. M. C. A. College,
where he edited the college newspaper and
was president of his class. He was ordered to
Notre Dame, after receiving his commission
this year, from the U.S.N.R. Midshipmen’s
School, New York.
Ensign James J. Clark, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Clark attended Illinois University and
Missouri University, from which he received
a degree in business administration in 1939.
He was president of his Business School class.
In 1940 he was awarded his L. L. B. from the
same university, and became a member of the
freight traffic solicitation department of the
Wabash Railroad. After training at Abbott
Hall, he was commissioned in October, 1942.
Ensign John M. Spooner, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Spooner attended the University of
Illinois, graduating in 1937. He held positions
with the Phillips Gasoline Co. and the DeVil-
biss Automobile'Spray Painting Co. before en-
listing in the Navy. He received his training
at the New York Naval Training School, and
was awarded his commission in October, 1942.
Ensign Donald Brabston, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Brabston attended Birmingham South-
ern-University and later, Northwestern, where
he received his Master’s degree. Since his
chief avocation was handling boats, the Navy
was his natural choice when war was declared.
After receiving his commission from Abbott
Hall in October, 1942, Mr. Brabston was
ordered to Notre Dame. -	.
Ensign Ralph T. Smith, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Smith is a graduate of Illinois College
and Washington University Law School, where
he was president of his class and was a member
of the baseball team. Mr. Smith engaged in
general legal practice and served as Assistant
General Attorney for the C. & I. M. Railway,
before entering the service. Upon receiving
his commission at Abbott, Hall in Octobej,
1942, he was ordered to Notre Dame.
Ensign Orlon M. Walstad, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Walstad attended Luther College and
was graduated in 1940. He left behind him
an outstanding record in intramural athletics
and varsity football, besides a four-year, assign-
ment as a member of the college concert band.
After receiving his commission at Abbott Hall,
' in October, 1942, Mr. Walstad was ordered to
Notre Dame.
[29]
Ensign Robert H. Winn, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Winn, Assistant Fourth Battalion offi-
cer, studied chemical engineering at Oklahoma
A. & M., and for the last three and a half
years has been engaged in the oil business.
He was commissioned in May, 1942, having
received indoctrination at Notre Dame. He
left Notre Dame last November, reporting for
duty at a Navy Diesel school.
Ensign E. A. Winton, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Winton graduated from Duke Univer-
sity in 1937. He left his desk at a bank to come
to Notre Dame in May as a member of an
officer’s training class. Upon completion of
the course, he was retained as assistant aide to
the Executive and Division Officer of the'ship’s
company. In November, he was appointed
assistant Battalion Commander. Soon after
this, he was ordered to other duty.
Lt. (j.g.) Glen R. Schleuter, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Schleuter attended Iowa State, St.
Ambrose’s, and Iowa University. His major
was engineering. Mr. Schleuter left college
in September, 1940, to join the Navy, and in
June, 1941, received his commission. . In
October, 1941, he was ordered to active duty
and assigned to the Indianapolis Radio Train-
ing School. In March, 1942, he came to
Notre Dame. He left in November.
Ensign James W. Hough, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Plough, assistant to the Third Battalion
commanding officer, graduated from Ran-
dolph Macon College, majoring in history and
economics. He received his Navy training at
Cornell University and was commissioned on
April 20, 1942. Mr. Hough left Notre Dame
early in November for other duty.
Lt. (j.g.) Edmond C. Dollard, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Dollard’s work with N. B. C. and later
an advertising firm in Chicago fitted him for
his duty as public relations officer at Notre
Dame. He graduated from Wisconsin in 1939,
where he majored in commerce, and competed
on the swimming team for three years. He left
Notre Dame last November and reported for
duty at Corpus Christi, Tex.
Lt. (j.g.) John M. Kennedy, U.S.N.R.
Mr. Kennedy, who graduated from Prince-
ton in 1928 with a degree in electrical engineer-
ing and an enviable record on the polo field,
was Personnel Officer aboard the U. S. S.
Notre Dame. Mr. Kennedy received his com-
mission March 5, 1942. He was ordered to
Jacksonville, Florida, in November.
[30]
Comdr. Joseph E. Malcomson, (M.C.) U.S.N. (Ret.)
Commander Malcomson, after graduation from Wayne Medical School, entered the.
Navy in 1917. He was medical officer on troop ships in World War I. After the war, he
was ordered to the Navy Hospital in New York and then to the.Navy Hospital in St. Croix,
Virgin Islands, where he was in charge of a leper colony. Commander Malcomson then
went to Annapolis as athletic medical officer. In 1930, he went back to sea as fleet surgeon
for the Atlantic scounting fleet, serving under Admiral Leahy. Commander Malcomson
retired in 1937, and was recalled to active duty in September, 1939.
Lt. Comdr. Guy S. Vogan, (M.C.) U.S.N.R.
Dr. Vogan attended Grove City College,
where he was a member of Phi Rho Sigma, and
the University of Pittsburgh Medical School,
graduating from the latter in the class of 1916.
Dr. Vogan saw service in World War I as a
lieutenant in the Army. Medical Corps. His
period of duty in the present conflict dates from
December, 1941, when He was ordered to the
Philadelphia Naval Hospital.
Lt. Comdr. J. V. Treynor,.(M.C.) U.S.N.R.
Dr. Treynor attended the University of Iowa,
graduating in 1919. He continued at that
university and was graduated from its medical
school in the class of 1921. Dr. Treynor in-
terned at Long Island and St. Christopher’s
hospitals in Brooklyn, N. Y., and at the Barnes
Hospital in St. Louis. He served in the First
World War and entered his present period of
service in May, 1942.
Lt. Comdr. H. S. Millett, (M.C.) U.S.N.R.
Dr. Millett graduated from the University
of Kansas in 1928. After interning, Dr. Millett
began a career of specialization in psychiatry
and neurology that included instructorships
and professorships at the College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York
University, Long Island College of Medicine,
and the University of Kansas. Dr. Millett en-
tered the service in February, 1941, and in
April, 1942, he was transferred here.
[32]
Lt. Reginald R. Rambo, (M.C.) U.S.N.
Dr. Rambo came here after a period of naval
service that included two years of sea duty. He
also has been stationed at the: U. S. Naval Hos-
pital, Philadelphia, and at the Bureau of
Medicine and Surgery. He graduated in 1938
from the Harvard Medical School, entering
the service soon afterward.
Dr. Rinesmith is a graduate of the Washing-
ton University School of Dentistry, class of ’30.
After graduation he was assistant professor of
Operative Dentistry at Washington U., and en-
gaged in private practice in St. Louis. Enlist-
ing in the Naval Reserve in ’38, he was ordered
to duty, coming to Notre Dame in May, ’42.
Lt. Bliss K. Shafer, (M.C.) U.S.N.R.
Dr. Shafer is a graduate of the University of
West Virginia, class of 1935, and the Western
Reserve Medical School, class of 1939. Dr.
Shafer, who played tennis and football at West
Virginia, interned at the Hawthornden Hos-
pital, Macedonia, Ohio. Dr. Shafer went on
active duty here in April, 1942.
Lt. Clarence Gripkey, (M.C.) U.S.N.R.
Dr. Gripkey took both his undergraduate
and medical work at the University of Kansas.
Dr. Gripkey was on the staff of the Crile Clinic,
Cleveland, Ohio. He was commissioned in the
Naval Reserve in March, 1938, going on active
duty at Great Lakes in December, 1941, and
coming to Notre Dame last March.	•
Lt. Lowry D. Reaves, (D.C.) U.S.N.R.
Dr. Reaves is a graduate of Washington Uni-
versity’s undergraduate and dental schools. He
has capitalized upon a fine singing voice by
appearing as soloist over both the Columbia
and National Broadcasting networks. He en-
tered the Navy two' years ago and saw service
at Great Lakes before being ordered here.
Lt. Herman Gaebe, (D.C.) U.S.N.R.
Dr. Gaebe is a graduate of George Williams
College, class of 1936, and Northwestern Dent-
al School, 1940. At George Williams, he
played on the basketball team. He entered
the service in October, 1941, and was stationed
at Great Lakes before coming to Notre Dartie.
^45308
Lt. Ambrose M. Babich, (S.C.) U.S.N.R.
When the U. S. S. Kearny was torpedoed
Mr. Babich, supply officer here, was aboard
her. He received a letter of commendation
from the Commandcr-in-Chicf of the Atlantic
Fleet for meritorious conduct during and after
the torpedoing. Lieut. Babich was commis-
sioned in 1935. He attended St. Patrick’s Col-
lege, Wellington, New Zealand. He served two
years with the Royal New Zealand Field Artil-
lery before coming to the United States.
Lt. (j.g.) F. C. Rutherford, (S.C.) U.S.N.R.
Mr. Rutherford, disbursing officer for the
U. S. S. Notre Dame, was graduated in 1939
from U. C. L. A. with a Bachelor of Science
degree in accounting. He was employed as
an accountant in the Sheriff’s office of Los
Angeles County before receiving his commis-
sion in the Naval Reserve on May 26, 1941.
Lieut. Rutherford is a member of Alpha Kappa
Psi, business fraternity.
[34]


WHEN Seaman W. T. Door went on active
duty October 5, several months after having
taken oath as a member of the United States
Naval Reserve, he found himself completely at sea,
though by no stretch of the imagination can Notre
Dame, Ind., be considered a port.
The Navy, he discovered to his swift bcfuddle-
ment, lives in a world of its own. Even common-
place objects have different names. Anything you
put your feet on, for instance (with the possible ex-
ception of a desk) is “the deck.” Food is “chow,”
stairs are “ladders,” walls, “bulkheads,” and any
kind of equipment is “gear.” One of the first les-
sons Seaman Door acquired along this line was that
the compartment marked “head” is not the com-
manding officer’s headquarters.
In the Navy, everything runs like clockwork, he
found. In less time than it takes to run up BAKER,
bewildered Seaman Door had filled out a boat load
of forms in triplicate, marched to the storeroom
where he was loaded up with a complete set of uni-
forms and bedding, and stumbled back to his room,
groaning silently under the weight.
Perhaps the second thing Seaman Door learned
was the meaning of the term, “scuttlebutt,” which
he concluded closely resembles what is referred to
among civilians as plain ordinary ‘bull’. One of the
strangest things about scuttlebutt, he learned fur-
ther, is that the more far-fetched it is, the readier
and wider acceptance it finds. After a little more
experience, however, Seaman Door decided that
this was not so unreasonable, at that.
Life in the quarters revolved around pronounce-
ments, generally unintelligible, by the .mates of the
deck, who rent the air at short intervals with orders
to fall in, announcements of the uniform of the day,
and sundry other ultimatums, followed in two min-
utes by contradictions, followed in turn by restora-
[36]

turned out to be the subjects of class instruction;
and it soon appeared that the most rugged of these
was math for navigators. There was much feverish
resurrecting of badly decayed knowledge of geom-
etry, algebra, astronomy, plane and spherical (if
any) trigonometry, and mechanical drawing.
In some ways, Seaman Door reflected while go-
ing to formation on the double, the general atmos-
phere resembled that at college, except that the
men were obviously much more intent on getting
something out of their instruction. There was
more good humor, and less horseplay, perhaps due
partly to the ever-present spectre of demerits.
Immunization “shots,” which made life hardly
worth living on Tuesdays, and generally Wednes-
days, too, were a major tribulation. Besides the
severe muscular soreness and general doggy feel-
ing which nearly everyone suffered, the faint of
heart were terrorized by the most sadistic brand
of scuttlebutt while waiting in the line leading into
the sick bay. If the reaction to the shots were any
criterion, Seaman Door felt certain after the fifth
or sixth round that he was immune to all the af-
flictions of man or beast, including ergophobia.
tion of the original orders. Now and then mates
of the deck were found to possess the two prime
qualifications of a train announcer: a highly pene-
trating voice, coupled with a total inability to make
themselves understood.
Seaman Door was soon removed from the fool’s
paradise he had built for himself around the item
in his orders stating that there would be no formal
classwork during the indoctrination period. Sup-
plied with eight textbooks (including Bowditch)
he quickly concluded that “formal” in the Navy
must mean white ties and tails.
Between times, there were periods for athletics
and plenty of infantry drill. Before long, he was
able to take drill—even two hours of it in the rain
—in stride.
Calisthenics, however, was a horse of another
color. The first time his company did a bending
exercise, so many joints cracked that the drill field
sounded like a rifle range, and a salty lieutenant
who happened to be standing by was moved to
sing out absently, “Cease firing!”
Seamanship, ordnance, and math for navigators
Captain’s inspection was discovered to have a
meaning not apparent to the casual onlooker, and
to involve an onerous routine which got under way
about 18 hours beforehand with swabbing of the
deck. Seaman Door used to think that this was
the only Navy term he understood, but he knew
now that he had not fully appreciated its implica-
tions.
The bare elements of getting a room in order for
inspection include, he learned: (a) sweeping, (b)
swabbing, and (c) going over the floor with' finger-
nails to capture any stray broom straws, or grains
of sand; making up the beds according to a precise
formula, with somewhat less tolerance permitted
in the angle of blanket folds than in solution of a
navigation problem; getting the ends of an un-
symmetrical towel to hang absolutely square;
thorough dusting, especially of the most unlikely
places, such as the crevice inside the bottom of
locker doors, or any cranny that is cither beyond
reach or out of sight; scrubbing the washbowl;
keeping the wastebasket empty and the ashtray
burnished; and seeing that shoes under the bed
are lined up along the shortest distance between
two arbitrarily selected (generally by the inspect-
ing officer) points.
Somewhat harried after the first two or three
days of living in a hell of a hurry, Seaman Door had
come to relish warmly every second of his seven
hours and fifty minutes in bed. It was with some
chagrin, then, that he drew the last half of the
midwatch as mate of the third deck, where he
grudgingly put in two hours noting in the log his
own and the roving watch’s reports that all was
secure, sir; and ruefully pondering man’s in-
humanity to man.
The bits of miscellaneous information assimilated
by Seaman Door in a remarkably short-time would
[38]
W1I!<WW?
S
Monday was an evil day for Seaman Door, who
found himself on a work detail because his ashtray
had been left on his desk, his soap dish was dirty,
and his locker was somewhat out of order. By way
of penance, he put in two hours lugging desks, files,
Seaman Door thought he knew now how Atlas must
have felt when someone spared him off for a few
hours.
make a long list, but some of the more noteworthy
items were: That in spite of considerable legwork,
to put it mildly, sailors’ shoes are likely to wear out
on the top as soon as on the bottom, due to in-
cessant shining; that it is possible, nay, judicious, to
distinguish a commissioned officer at 500 yards
with the naked eye; and that you will always
know where you are going when you get there.
Well over a thousand men comprised the in-
doctrination class which matriculated on Oct. 5,
and was due to become the first midshipmen’s class
at Notre Dame. Colleges and universities in all
parts of the country were represented, Seaman
Door found, and there was such a variety of accents
that a muster sounded like the Biblical confusion
of tongues.
The first Saturday at 12:30 came the anxiously-
awaited proclamation of liberty. Striding freely
along the broad and bustling streets of South Bend,
South Bend residents were so anxious to be pleas-
ant and helpful to men in uniform that Seaman
Door, one week on active duty, felt like an ancient
and honored mariner, grown hoary in the service
of his country. The city’s Servicemen’s Center,
operated by a group of public spirited people*, con-
tained all that a young man could ask, viz., a goodly
stock of beauteous damsels, food and drink, reading
and writing materials, and the speedy and cheerful
solution of almost any personal problem.
[39]
and other office equipment from Rockne hall up
to the second floor of the new Navy building. The
fellow on the other end of a file cabinet philo-
sophically remarked that if he should be shot at
sunrise some morning for too many infractions of .
the rules, at least he would get another couple
hours’ sleep that day.
Succeeding weeks (all two of them) of indoctri-
nation were much like the first as to routine
schedule, Seaman Door discovered. There were .
always innumerable new things to learn—and on
the double. But even after the first week, he found
his grip tightening on this new and confusing way
of life. He decided that he liked the Navy’s syste- -
matic way of doing things, and reflected that he
could have accomplished a great deal more as a
civilian with more of the Navy’s place-and-time-
for-everything attitude. Most important of all, he
found himself taking a fierce pride in being a Navy
man, and in living up to its standards for their own
sake—not to mention escaping the ignominy of
being dubbed a landlubber.
Though still, and for months to come, a dry-land
sailor, Seaman Door already could feel a responsive
thrill to the glorious traditions established by such
men as John Paul Jones, John Barry, Commodore
Perry, and Admiral Farragut—and, by lineal kin-
ship, Ferdinand Magellan, Sir Walter Raleigh, and
Lord Horatio Nelson.
All in all, he felt like an old salt, and put full
steam on living the part to the extent that he might
fulfill the definition of “The Master of a Ship of
War,” as set forth in Ward’s “The Wooden
World”: “His language is all heathen Greek to a
cobbler; and he cannot have so much as a tooth
drawn ashore without carrying his interpreter. It
is the aftmost grinders aloft, on the starboard
quarter, will he cry to the all-wondering operator.”
[40]
M
nrwiriiTmraM
i
j I
i ;	“ When I first put this uniform on
i	I said, as I looked in the glass
i|	lIt*s one in a million that any civilian
p	My figure and form will surpass.*
■ j	ji	I said, when I first put it on,
; ;	I	‘It is plain to the veriest dunce
■'	j	That every beauty will feel it her duty
|	j	To yield to its glamor at once*.”
J	If the truth were known, the secret reaction of
I	7
:• j	Midshipman W. T. Door, to the first glimpse of
himself in his eagerly-awaited dress blues coincided
neatly with the sentiments expressed by Gilbert
:	and Sullivan’s vain colonel of the Heavy Dragoons.
j	Donning dress blues, however, had no relation
in time to actually becoming midshipmen, owing
to several weeks’ delay in arrival of the caps. By
the time they came, impatience knew no bounds.
!j	This situation was neatly epitomized by Lt. Brown,
commander of the first battalion, as he addressed
the formation of the ultimate few whose odd sizes
il	had finally turned up. In the drily humorous tone
ji	for which he has become well known, he remarked,
“Now, if there is any man here who doesn’t want
p	to get his dress cap, he has my permission to fall
:i !	out.”
p j	After final indoctrination exams, however, jump-
I!	[	ers and white caps gave way immediately to blue
p	l	shirts and ties, together with the then odd-looking
|	blue-banded headgear, constituting undress blues.
P	j	The blue-banders in turn were shortly succeeded
ji	ii	by watch caps (the Navy’s term for what we called
js	“stocking caps” in our belly-flopping days, which,
!j	ij	while no sartorial triumph, were accepted with re-
ij	|	joicing when winter in Indiana showed its true
j	bitterness.
"j !
; i	.
ii j	The new class schedule revealed a highly satis-
;j |	factory number of study periods, compared with
;i j	the old indoctrination routine, but two develop-
i! j	ments served to curtail all celebration. First of
these was that^while indoctrination had seemed
rigorous enough^ivith^spect to studies, it was
really only a. mild .'warmer-upper. Next, two or
three study periods a week were snatched away
for additional athletics y
Navigation, ordnance, damage control, and Sea-
manship—these put together made up an incubus
that fevered the hapless midshipman day and night,
set himi to paw^n^ wearily through tables, in his
dreams,’ •ipyoking^ curses on the man who first
thought of mounting^ gun on a ship (and incident-
ally, agreeing wholeheartedly with Lord Nelson in
his opposition to theiuse of sights on the grounds
that they\would introduce unnecessary complica-
tions into.‘firing), getting hopelessly ensnarled in
buoyancy ‘.and stability , calculations, and deeply
envying landlubbers whose traffic and steering
problems had.some relation, to previous experience.
If there was .a^man in-the regiment who stayed
on “top” of his work for more than a few hours be-
hind, he did not let it be known, and most of us
were lucky to keep'Within hailing distance. To
quote again the proud colonel of the 'Heavy-Dra-
goons,	' • \	it
“I didn’t anticipate that x .
When I first put this uniform on,”
One entry in the program which excited a cer- -■
tain amount of curiosity was “executive drill.”
Now, everybody knew what drill was, and quickly
tried to think of something else, but the “executive”
part of it sounded intriguing. All hopes were
I 42 ]
dashed when executive drill turned out to be plain
old ordinary drill, with an^hour of athletics thrown
in for good measure. Where the “executive” part,
of it came in remained an unfathomed, mystery.
Two milestones in the annals of the Notre Dame
Midshipmen’s school were set up when,'first, all
classes were begun in the freshly-completed Navy
building just beyond Rockne hall, and‘some weeks
later, the Navy drill hall was opeh^d’for use’. There
was a new appreciation of haying^oughiseats to
go around, blackboards (with or without- chalk),
and adequate space to work/in. Best of all were
the tables in the Nav. classrooms, where one could
construct a Mercator chart without fear of running
over the abyss which gave Columbus, some mutiny
trouble.	/ f / ‘
One or two more shots/iri fKe arm/(tetanus, they
must have been), shortly put^rt^nd'to the forlorn
processions which .used to wind into the sick bay
every week. The blood tests and fluoroscopic
exams were still to come,, but could be disregarded
since they involved no.hardship except loss of study
time'/ Theyfdid say, however, that one midship-
man stopped^oh- the way back from a blood test to
roll down his*^slceye''and fell three assignments be-
hind:"'" \	'
•• Within the first week, the regiment made ac-
quaintance with yet another hoary tradition—the
“tree,” an institution regarded with aversion, if not
horror, by one and all. Every Wednesday was
• Arbor day, when trees were planted on main
bulletin boards where all could see one’s name
and jeer. This custom gave rise early in De-
cember to a fervent hope which puzzled all civil-
ians who happened to hear of it: namely that the
regiment would have no Christmas trees.
Whatever a midshipman’s other troubles, no one
need fear that he worries over money, for he has
none to trouble him. It was a black day early in
November when, our finances touching rock bot-
tom, we were lined up to be paid $41.50, and with-
in, ten minutes lined up again to pay out $40 for
midshipmen’s uniforms and accessories. Succeed-
ing paydays, bringing stipends averaging $15, de-
veloped into occasions for exchanging debts.
Then, too, there were interludes . . . the Satur-
days when we strutted our stuff in town, proud as
peacocks in our brand-new dress blues, and con-
tent to have broken the back of our civilian indi-
viduality to merge with an honored tradition . . .
the brief minutes of daily liberty when, now in the
habit of living intensely, we made firmer friend-
ships than in years previously . . . the moments
when esprit de corps was being born . . . the evil
hour when we shook hands all around before
walking into the first term Nav. final . . . that day
of transcendent glory when one’s name was an-
nounced with a 4.0 attached to it. . . the week-end
that best girl, or Mom and Dad, or perhaps all
three, traveled up to South Bend.
If this summing-up conveys the impression that
all was not skittles and beer, it is a fairly accurate
account. No one expected a lark, and while mid-
shipmen’s training by popular consent was voted
the toughest stretch we had to put in anywhere, its
severity served to impress us with the seriousness of
our job as nothing else could have done. Most
satisfying of all was the conviction, born of number-
less weary and hopeless hours, of having earned
our stripes.
[43]
-TOM
[44]
“Pm sure I left Pearl Harbor here.”
[45]

IT WAS quiz day again and we were frantically
cramming mnemonic devices into ourselves
while sharpening pencils and arranging the texts
in a convenient, portable pile. There was Dutton,
the Pacific Ocean Tide Tables, the Azimuth Sun
Bearings, Introduction to Astronomy, Current
Tables, and Bowditch. Gee, he’s a heavy one . . .
(In more ways than one.)
Our roommate was one of those mathematics
sharks who could handle a protractor like a surgeon
handles a scalpel, draw neat circles and meticu-
lously straight lines, and work out intricate prob-
lems while we were still struggling with the first fix.
There were a few score like him in the entire
school. Accomplished lads, really out of this
world, who found Navigation a cinch and couldn’t
understand why all the others ever had trouble
with it.
“Come on”, he said. “Let’s go. This test today
will be simple. You really should breeze through
it.”
Muttering an imprecation, we collected our
books and joined a group in the passageway.
“How do you get the t and d of the sun?”
“What is a good definition of azimuth?”
“Howinhell do you convert Watch Time to
G. C. T.?”
And so it went.
We tottered off apprehensively, barely missing a
fall on the ice, miraculously preventing the books
from slipping, and keeping the compass point out
of, the anatomy of the fellow in front. It was a
lucky start, but we never took luck for granted for
we knew it was better to figure you didn’t have a
chance. Then the surprise of passing would be
sweeter and the shock of bilging, less potent, since
expected.
[ 46 ]
__________________________________________________________________ —



Illi ■■■■I
Up the ladders, through the passageways, the
books going helter skelter in our arms but not yet
on the deck, we managed to get our coats on hooks
and ourselves into the classroom. Maybe he won’t
give the test today, we hoped. Maybe this and
maybe that, but there he was already on his way
in and those were certainly P-work sheets in his
arms. “We’ll have a little quickie, gentlemen,”
he said, “Just to see if you have studied your lesson.”
And we started, mulling formulae, mumbling pray-
ers and munching fingernails.
The problem reads: You are on board a destroy-
er, the Throckmorton P. Snodgrass, course 070,
speed, very little indeed in times like these. You
have just taken a running fix and found yourself
729 miles from your DR position, south of the
Estimated Point, attained by using radio bearings
from Lighthouse A, Station B, and the tower of the
RCA building in New York City, four blocks from
the Gay White Way and the Crossroads of the
World. Oops! There is a torpedo looking you
right in the eye, on course 045 relative, and it’s
coming much faster4han you’re going. There are
shoals just a wee bit ahead and you are within the
danger circle, headed for certain doom, and your
OOD has just reported that two seaman shot an
albatross five minutes before the torpedo was
sighted. The lookout reports that there is a re-
calcitrant school of fish on the starboard beam,
playing “sloogey” with a pearl, and a call to the
engine room reveals that some viper in the crew
is inciting a mutiny. Now the required answer is:
What course would you have to steer in order to
make the late show at Radio City?
Ah, you get to thinking about New York in De-
cember, the Gay White Way, a late show with a
midnight supper at the Stork Club and then, Bow-
ditch falls to the deck. The busy little beaver be-
side you wants your eraser and another one would
like to have those Current Tables, please. The
bell rings and you haven’t even begun. You gather
together your gear and envision Camp Upton in
December with everyone pointing at you when
you walk down the street without the Ensign’s stripe.
But someone is mumbling in the rear. He had
worked it all out; got the ship as far as a Kansas
cornfield, and then the instructor told him that it
was patently impossible and that only blank papers
would get 4.0’s. Oh, my goodness, what did I do
to deserve this?
[47 ]

SALVOES .... directors .... dip strips ....
pointer fire .... matching zero readers . . . .
increasing twist ....
Such was Ordnance, as we were exposed to its
mysteries. A long, mind-racking struggle with
such incomprehensible (at first) terms as the above.
The instructors had a sense of humor. They
would smile in sly fashion and say:
“I know the operation of this instrument seems
difficult but you can readily grasp the principle if
you look at Plate V opposite Page 147.”
Pages would flutter as we turned to that plate
which would solve the situation. Once there we
discovered the reason for the instructor’s smile.
There would be a drawing of a Rube Goldbergian
invention, replete with dozens of valves, cams,
wheels and cogs.
Understand it? Well, perhaps not at first but
the general idea would begin to sink in after diligent
application.
We discovered, to our surprise, that hitting the
target entails more than merely peeking through
the sights and pulling the trigger. We learned
that in many Naval battles the target is never seen
with the naked eye, yet the target is usually strad-
dled with the first salvo and thoroughly perforated
with the second.
We learned what happened when the German
battleship Bismarck sunk the mighty Hood, pride
of Britain’s Navy, with a single well-directed salvo.
To landlubbers, it has always been mystifying
just how Naval vessels, subject to constant pitch and
roll, ever manage to hit the targets at all. We found
out it was all a matter of correcting various angles,
then, ‘gittin’ thar fustest with the mostest shells.”

•SSBKcenBv
A director, we always thought, was a
Hollywood personage who put glamour
gals and guys through their paces before
the camera, wore leather puttees and-spoke
with the voice of omnipotence.
Very true, but we also learned there’s
an infinitely more accomplished Director
in Naval Ordnance, an almost-human and
vastly complicated machine that makes
hits possible before you can say “arbitrary
ballistic.”
Nor was it all theory that was doled out
to us. We spent considerable time at the
loading machines and rangefinders.
From this time on, whenever the words
“loading machine” arc spoken, we will all
shiver as with the ague.
Who can ever forget those drill sessions
beneath the Notre Dame Stadium, with
the temperature crowding zero and the
wind whipping through the passageways
and P-coats?
Sure. It was cold. But it was fun, too.
There we had our first glimpse at the man-
ner in which guns are loaded and fired.
The lessons learned on those nippy days may pay off some day
when we’re helping to fire real guns and real shells at the enemy.
Safety, safety, safety. It was drummed into us with a relent-
less determination. At drill they in-
dicated how one little mistake could
wipe out the whole gun crew. Re-
sponsibility was being placed on our
shoulders and we were feeling its
weight.
Few things made more fascinating
discussion than “hangfires,” and we’d
sit completely entranced while some
sea veteran would tell us how treacher-
ous they could be. Opening the breech
during a hangfire might blow your gun
crew to Kingdom Come so the proper
procedure was to call the Captain and
ask him what you should do. And if the
gun’s services were required, he might
say “open it”, and it was the Gunnery
Officer’s duty to carry out the order.
“Arc there any questions?” the in-
structor would ask considerately before
dismissing the section.
“Ssssir, are we going to be the...”
It was all quite apparent. We were!
[51]


[ 52]


[ 53]

I"'******

FOR CENTURIES upon centuries mariners the
world over have been establishing customs
and preserving traditions which are unparallelled
by other services. And come hell, high water, or
a Philosophy major to the Midshipmen’s school,
every one of their number must be thoroughly
familiar with these customs before they qualify as
salts of the sea.
Seamanship is the type of course which embraces
everything pertaining to the Navy which is not
covered by other departments. In it you run the
gamut from discovering how to tow, maneuver,
and anchor a ship to ascertaining who gets the
wettest seat in a motor launch when there are two
Admirals, a General, a Commander, and an En-
sign embarking. (As if we didn’t already know!)
Assuming you are blessed with a just portion of
common sense, flavored by attributes of forehand-
edness and leadership, the technical knowledge is
provided by lectures and drills, supplemented by
an indispensable copy of Knight’s and a handy
pocket-sized compendium explaining the life, loves,
and obligations of a Watch Officer in every im-
aginable predicament. When you can prove satis-
factorily that you know what they contain your
commission wafts through in the form of a cirro-
cumulus halo.
Seamanship also meant Morse Code, flag hoist
and movies. The movies were held in somnolent
Washington Hall and usually featured a deathless
serial entitled “Ship Construction.”
Here we watched, spellbound, movies depicting
the birth and development of a vessel. Climax of
each movie occured when the workmen snapped a
chalk line. It invariably happened and never failed
to provide a thrill.
Well-heated Washington Hall often gave us cause
to struggle with Morpheus. Even Lt. Lord, head
of the Seamanship Department, once publicly ad-
mitted that he drifted off to sleep almost every time
he sat in Washington Hall.
[54]
But these were the lighter moments. We knew
that seamanship was vastly important. We re-
called the letter to a member of the department
from a friend with the Pacific Fleet. The letter
read in part:
“Tell your boys to learn their Seamanship well.”
“We have a young Reserve ensign, the First
Lieutenant, aboard this destroyer and he has to
anchor and handle boats and lines in a gale with
a green crew and a brand new boatswain’s mate.”
The course is comprehensive in its scope and
bound to be confusing at times, even to the most
mechanical of men. Rather than confessing “I
don’t know,” which they told us is a cardinal
taboo, capable of doing devastating things to an
instructor’s spleen, the Midshipmen, in their mo-
ments of desperation, frequently resorted to im-
provised answers, rather than giving up without a
fight and allowing an “unsat” grade to be recorded
in the red book uncontested.
Representative of our not uncommon bewilder-
ment was the response of a long, lean, Louisianan,
when asked what he’d do with the side boys if an
Admiral came aboard. The big fellow reflected
confidence in himself and as he prepared to drawl
his answer you could suspect that he knew what
this was all about. “Sir,” he said, “Ah’d just take
’em and toss ’em over the side.”
There were other weird answers. Here’s one gem:
“When the relation of two vessels to each other
is such as to involve risk of collision, the one re-
quired by the rules to keep clear is called the
‘underprivileged’ vessel.”
And then there was the lad who noted that the
most efficient way to go alongside a wharf with the
current from astern was to “back engines slowly
and turn in.”
The instructor writhed and we all went to see
“Patience” that night.
[55]
[56]
FOUR months ago few among us knew there was .
such a subject as Damage Control. We had
seen pictures of the U.S.S. Shaw limping into a
West Coast port with her bow shot away and we
knew from the newspaper story that she had come
from Pearl Harbor but it never occurred to us that
hers was a story of Damage Control rather than
good luck. We had heard engineers tell us that
the U.S.S. Lafayette, once the proud Normandie,
would be eventually raised from her muddy grave
in New York’s Hudson river but we visualized huge
cranes and dozens of Navy tugs working to right
her. We never imagined that there was a specific
science called Damage Control which would be
used to put her back into service. But before long
we learned.
They taught us that we should never give up
even though we were floundering and our ship was
shot full of gaping holes and defeat was near. “If
you keep fighting, if you stay afloat, you can still
do damage, and the enemy will never know your
true condition unless you choose to show it to
him.”
First they taught us how a ship is built and we
all spent hours in Washington Hall watching a
scries of moving pictures that portrayed through
blueprints and chalk lines the steps that are fol-
lowed between the time the keel of a ship is laid
and she sails out to sea. We learned the funda-
mentals of steel construction work and we learned
to distinguish between thevvarious types of bulk-
heads, decks, and frames that are built into a
modern man o’ war. They all looked the same
to us at first but as the weeks went by we learned
better.
[58]
The ingenuity of modern naval architecture has
devised means of keeping vessels on the surface
despite the effects of collisions, torpedoes or shells.
And these were the principles we were obliged to
master before we were considered “sat” in Damage
Control.
It was technical and intricate, difficult and baf-
fling. But we recognized its ultimate worth and
plugged along spiritedly, giving it just a bit more
of our study time than we allocated for other sub-
jects.
There were Engineering degrees amongst us who,
like Mister Door, climbed that “tree” week after
week and sat in it discontentedly. And then there
were Fine Arts majors who flitted by unscathed,
never faltering. That was Damage Control for you.
In the throes of examination hysteria, with his
week-end plans hanging precariously from the
limb of the “tree”, there was one fellow who re-
sorted to philosophy and kept his fingers crossed
as he wrote, giving his interpretation of the dis-
tinction between a nut and a bolt.
“A bolt,” he explained, “is a doodad like a stick
of hard metal such as iron with a square bunch on
one end and a lot of scratching wound around the
other. A nut is similar to a bolt only just the
opposite, being a hole in a chunk of iron sawed off
short with wrinkles around the inside of the hole.”
Now the instructor had a sense of humor and he
laughed heartily when he read the answer. In
fact, he even showed it to the rest of the department
and they too laughed. But the mate of the deck
will refer to his log and tell you that the uninten-
tional comedian was in his nest that week-end
observing study hour.
[59]
HE DITCHED the cigarette, flung the door
open, and flew down the passageway to the
spot where everyone in the battalion was congre-
gated. The big fellow in front obscured his view.
Then there was another with an elbow on his
shoulder using him as a support. He pushed a little
this way and a little that but made no progress.
Two men who had been close up front, their curi-.
osity satisfied, nudged backward indicating that
they wanted to leave.
When he moved to the side a step, three others
squeezed in ahead of him and now he was almost
completely buried. “Gangway! Gangway! Make
room for the Captain!” he yelled, and as the crowd
jumped aside he thrust his body forward. '
Only two files away now, his heart was thumping
on the double and he heard it beating above the
din of the many voices. The man ahead muttered
an ‘innocuous’ curse, stamped his foot, and moaned,
“Ah know ah’m not that dumb. Ah won’t be-
lieve it!”
There he was at last right up front facing his
doom or salvation. His eyes leaped from one col-
umn to another and his face was blank. “Jackson,
Jensen, Johnson, Kent, King, . . .” And then his
stomach felt as though it had dropped down to
his toes.
He tried to think of something funny to say for
those who might be watching, but couldn’t think
of a thing. “Two point four in Nav! Can you tie
that? And there I am again hanging from the
branch they reserved for me. Gee, I knew I was
close, but I kinda thought that maybe . . .” No
one was paying attention so he broke off and began
to head back, brushing through a group who were
rejoicing because the axe had missed them.
Twenty or so paces from his room someone called
out, “Big week end in Chicago, eh mate!” And
then it all came to him . . . “She’ll be waiting at
the Palmer House. Come all the way from Joliet,
too. But I can’t get there now. What am I going to
do? Don’t want her to suspect that I’m dumb . . .”
He wondered and wondered and then he phoned
Western Union. “Honey—Fate has made it im-
possible for me to keep the Chi date STOP Aw-
fully sorry STOP One of those secret things be-
tween me and the Navy Department STOP This
is war you know STOP War is hell STOP Know
.you’ll understand STOP Love”
[60]
INTO sick bay we filed; into a room replete with
doctors and pharmacist’s mates. Quietly,
quickly, efficiently they jabbed hypodermic needles
into the limp arms of a hapless procession of mid-
shipmen. Out of the other end of the room moved a
line of grim faces, sore arms, headaches, cold sweats
and fevers. But classes, athletics, drills and every-
thing else went on as though nothing had happened.
Each Tuesday for an endless number of weeks
our study hours ... to say nothing of our morale . . .
were shattered by the mate piping that horrible
call, “More shots! Muster outside, more shots.”
But the day came at last when we were immune
to almost everything but a smiling face in the
Oliver lobby.
But maybe we’re lucky we had them. What else
is as fertile for conversation?
[61 ]
FROM far off, at first, a bell begins to clang.
Like the rising tempo of a Wagner orchestra-
tion the sound increases until it fills your room
with an infernal din.
Then come the shouts of the mates in the pas-
sageways.
“Reveille!”
“Hit the deck!”
“Come on, you guys, pile out of there!”
Rubbing sleep-sodden eyes, you hazily throw
back the covers, step down to a deck so cold that it
could be used for an ice-rink and then rush to close
the windows and drape yourself over a radiator.
Such is reveille, a daily ordeal.
And then there is Captain’s Inspection, that
Saturday ritual which involves a desperate struggle
with dust motes, lint, and collar buttons.
A last hurried brush with the broom, a flick at
the sink, a ginger finger test of locker tops, and a
critical glance at the gleaming surface of desks per-
fectly aligned, a final prayerful glance at your
roomie, quailing at parade rest, and you are ready
for Captain’s inspection.
Yes, ready at last, you fondly suppose, because
you have corrected, with infinite patience, the mis-
takes so generously indicated by your Chief in an
uninterrupted series of room slips throughout the
week.
You learned to know well a curious appliance,
called a “swab,” and you waited in a line just for ,
a chance to use it. And there were other indis-
[62]
pensables—brooms and brushes, polish and rags,
newspapers for windows, and the laundry bag for
stray articles which could find no other hiding place.
Inspections were a daily ritual and you always
thought you were getting better at chasing dirt.
But you were living in a fool’s paradise if you
supposed your ingenuity superior to that of the in-
spector’s. Toward the end of our tenure the officers
became fantastically clever in ferreting out minute
items for attack—a molecule and three quarters of
dust on the molding at the most inaccessible corner
of the quarters; a suspicious cluster of foreign mat-
ter on the under side of the bunks; a few grains of
tobacco carelessly interred in a stack of tide and
current tables on the starboard side of your
roomie’s desk.
It was always your roommate who was at fault.
It was he who left the cap off your tube of tooth-
paste, or a hair conspicuously littering the glisten-
ing washstand, or a cigarette butt beneath the
locker or a maverick button beside the radiator.
And it couldn’t have been you who left a telltale
smudge on the mirror and the shoelaces adrift. •
These were the peccadilloes that kept you on board
with the extra duty squad on Saturday afternoons
because it was always you who was in charge of the
room when things like this had to happen. . . .
ATHLETICS occupied a prominent place in
2X the Midshipman’s routine, with several hours
each week set aside for calisthenics, tag football,
nucom, track, softball, gymnastics, boxing, wrest-
ling, handball and squash.
The calisthenics, led by Chief Degralla, were
held outside on the drill field, weather permitting,
or in the Drill House. Middies who couldn’t touch
the ground with the palms of their hands when
they first began the course were doing it easily
before graduation.
Athletics were heavily emphasized during the
Indoctrination period. A company competition in
all sports was held and the regimental champion-
ship went to Company Nine.
A “Submarine Squad” was organized for those
who couldn’t swim and they were given instruc-
tion two and three times each week at the pool in
Rockne Memorial Hall.
The first few calisthenic sessions brought the boys
back to their rooms with aching muscles. It
wasn’t long, however, before all of us were going
through the drills with great gusto.
[64]
[65]

WE WERE talking about little things that
really didn’t matter very much over the
Friday noon chow of spaghetti and potato chips.
“Keep this under your watch cap,” the fellow
across the table was saying to an entranced four-
some, “it’s direct from the feedbox.”
The sodden strand was suspended momentarily
between plate and mouth. It seemed perfectly
human to overhear things if people insisted on dis-
cussing them in public. And anyway there was
nothing secretive about his tone and he appeared
delighted as each new face looked up to share
the confidence.
“Well, it’s this way, see? My roomie used to go
to college with a man down the passageway who’s
in the Glee Club and knows a guy who’s buddy
was Executive Orderly the day before yesterday.
Or was it three days ago? Well anyway, this mate
was delivering messages all day long but in be-
tween times, when there was a slack, he was chat-
ting with a Chief who seemed like a pretty good
guy. The Chief was chummy with one of the yeo-
men who knows his way around. The yeoman told
the Chief and the Chief came back and told my
pal’s pal’s pal that . . .” The impatient listeners
had been slipping potato chips into their mouths
and others half-heartedly ate their spaghetti, but
now they paused.
Five more minutes of precautionary preface and
then followed the most horrendous tale that was
ever heard at a chow table. And it concerned the
destiny of every man in the group.	,
Some just sat and stared, mouths agape, and
some just blanched and carried on.
Now each one of the men who had heard the
story returned to his room after chow and told his
roomie,‘with the usual admonitions, increasing the
line along which the tale travelled by one or two.
And each man related the narrative with increas-
ing vigor and dramatics.
Thus it spread. An Ensign picked it up while
shooting baskets in the gym and he let it fall casu-
ally that evening while correcting papers in the
Seamanship department.
Some Lieutenants wondered about it. The Bat-
talion Chiefs began to be pestered by inquiries from
wild-eyed Midshipmen. They could neither con-
firm nor deny so they called the Executive Aide
who said he’d check on it.
By now it had taken on fantastic proportions and
when the Exec heard it, he wet his lips, paused
momentarily, and hastened in to see the Captain.
The Captain looked up from trying to decide
whether “Don’t Spread Rumors” or “Idle Chatter
Sinks Ships” should be the proverb of the day and'
as the fantasy was unfolded he smiled and said,
“Aw, Scuttlebutt!”
[66]
WB

ON THE eve of graduation it becomes the duty
and privilege of the editor to speak for his
classmates; to interpret their feelings as they pre-
pare to don the stripe and star of Ensigns in the
United States Naval Reserve; to express their ap-
preciation for the patience and kindness of the
officers; and to offer their thanks to the officials of
the University of Notre Dame and the people of
South Bend who did so much to make our few free
moments pleasant ones.
But the power to deeply and accurately probe
the emotions of 1100 fellow men is, unfortunately,
denied even to editors of class books. Therefore,
we must rely on those opinions most often expressed
and those feelings most often observed among our
fellow midshipmen.
We Are Proud. . . .
Proud that we are the first class of Midshipmen
to be graduated from the United States Naval Re-
serve Midshipmen’s School at Notre Dame. This
pride is only natural.
Only four months ago, we were neighbors—
neighbors in the forty-eight states of the union—
engaged in the usual civilian pursuits. We were
salesmen, we were farmers, we were attorneys, we
were engineers, we were newspapermen—we were
the men of Main Street.
Then, suddenly, we became shipmates and our
business became War, a business entirely foreign
to our way of life.
We have survived the uprooting and transplant-
ing; the rigors of training and the necessity of mas-
tering the rudiments of our new business. We are
about to receive our commissions, the first to be
granted at this school, and we are proud.
More than that. We know that we have worked
under the usual handicaps of the “guinea pigs” of
a new project. But that very fact adds to our pride
for we have had to dig harder, using in many cases
makeshift tools and equipment, in preparing for
this business of war. By this same token, however,
our foundation for our new business is more solid
than it might have been under other circumstances.
Then too, we have pride in the fact that we
played a part in laying the groundwork for this,
Our Midshipmen’s School. Classes that follow will
benefit by our mistakes; they will have more and
better equipment than we had; they will have the
honor of being graduated from the best Midship-
men’s school in the country. We had a part in
making it the best.
But, proud though we are of these things, we are
even prouder that soon we will have the letters
D-V(G), U.S.N.R. following our names. To each
man in the class these letters have a special mean-
ing, but to all of us they have one common meaning.
First of all the V stands for Volunteer—this was
our choice, something that we really wanted to do
and not something that was forced upon us. G
stands for General and means that we can be
ordered to and fullfill any duty that will most bene-
fit our country in its battle for survival. D stands
for Deck and means that we have been given the
well rounded training necessary to qualify us as
deck officers.
U.S.N.R. stands for United States Naval Re-
serve. These letters mean that for the duration of
the war we will have the privilege of serving as
officers in the United States Navy, the branch of
our country’s armed forces which has done most
of the “ball carrying” in this war.
Yes, we are proud of all these things.
We Owe A Debt Of Gratitude. . . .
A debt to the officers of “Our Midshipmen’s
School.” It is a debt that we can repay in only
one way—by justifying the confidence these men
have shown in us as they taught us, guided us and
finally accepted us as fellow officers.
We know full well that these officers would much
prefer to be at sea fighting our ships but the task
of preparing additional officers for our country’s
fast growing fleet had to fall on some shoulders
and these officers did their duty well, and with-
out complaint.
At times, they were tough. But this business of
war requires toughness. We can’t deny that we
didn’t care one bit for an afternoon of athletics and
executive drill on the same day that our muscles
were begging for a period or rest and relaxation to
recuperate from the shock of typhoid, tetanus and
smallpox inoculations. Nor did we relish the un-
ceasing string of quizzes and exams which caused
some among us to take up permanent abode in
the tree.
But these same officers showed almost unbelieva-
ble patience and understanding as they guided us
through the intricacies of Navigation and Ord-
nance; the ramifications of Seamanship and the
brain-defying technicalities of Damage Control.
Their toughness, their patience and their under-
standing were mixed in the proper proportions to
help us bridge the immense chasm which lies be-
tween civilian and military life; they also fitted us
to better perform our duty in our new business
of War.
[68]

We wish to thank these officers and promise that
we will repay their efforts in the Navy way—by
performing our duty well.
We Appreciate ...
Appreciate more than we ever will be able to tell
the things done by the Officials of the University
of Notre Dame and the people of South Bend to
fill our free moments and relieve the strain of our
four months of training.
Notre Dame opened her doors to us. We were
welcome at her football and basketball games. We
were urged to use her facilities, to visit her art
gallery, library and other buildings.
We will never forget the exciting moments of the
Fighting Irish football games; the welcome that
awaited us as we made our first trip to Rockne
Memorial; the general feeling of “make yourselves
at home, gentlemen” with which Notre Dame
treated its strange new guests.
We thank you, Notre Dame.
To the people of South Bend we can only say
• that you will always live in our memories. Your
dinner invitations, your parties, your dances did
much to build our morale. Loneliness and home-
sickness were dissipated before your kindness and
friendliness. You made us feel that you considered
us your “sons”; and you filled the place of the
parents, sweethearts and friends we left behind.
Your Service Men’s Center can well be your
pride and joy. The Center quickly became our
weekend headquarters. There you provided re-
freshments, recreation and, perhaps more impor-
tant, companionship . . . companionship that in
many cases ripened into true friendships. Words
cannot express our appreciation.
We are determined. . . .
Determined to do our utmost to succeed in this
business of War that Freedom may soon ring from
every mountainside.
^Jlie Chaplain. a. lAJord
The Navy is proud to number you among its officer personnel. The profession
you have chosen is one rich in tradition; a tradition that will be perpetuated by
your acts and your deeds.
It has been our distinct pleasure to guide you in these early days of your prepa-
ration and we know you have a foundation upon which you will build a very suc-
cessful career as an officer in the United States.Navy.
You will always have a special significance to us throughout your entire Naval
career, for you are the first to take your departure from this Midshipmen’s School;
and we shall watch your progress, your successes and your victories with particu-
lar interest.
You have confirmed our conviction that the fate and destiny of our nation rests
in strong, firm, and virile hands; hands that will not only crush our enemies, but
hands that will forever symbolize the guarantee of peace and security to all free and
freedom loving peoples.
You have demonstrated your willingness and eagerness to accept your new
duties. Our most fervent wish is that you will in every adversity and in every success
always “Keep faith with yourself.”: In the words of the distinguished officer who
addressed you on last.Navy Day, “Come home with your shields of honor untar-
nished, or come home on them!”
H. P. Burnett,
Captain, U. S. Navy.
[69]
If'



RAY H. ABEL
Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Univ, of Iowa, '40
HAFIZ T. ABOOD
Cleveland, Ohio
Western Reserve, '36
STANLEY JACK ABRAMS
Cincinnati, Ohio
Univ, of Cincinnati '41
MORRIS A. ADELMAN
Washington, D. C.
City College of New York, '38

d
L. PHILIP ALBERT
Klamath Falls, Ore.
Armstrong College, '42
CALDWELL ALEXANDER
Bronxville, N. Y.
Princeton, '42
DAVID W. ALLABY
Mauston, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
CLARENCE M. ALLEN
Salina, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '41
■ r
$


i

JAMES R. ALLEN
St. Louis, Mo.
Southern Illinois Normal, '41
JOHN MELVIN ALLEN, JR.
Tulsa, Okla.
Univ, of Tulsa, '41
VINCENT W. ALLIN
Minneapolis, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '40
CEDRIC T. ALMAND
Haynesville, La.
Tulane, '42
[73]
JOHN J. ALTOBELLO
New Orleans, La.
Loyola of the South, '42
GORDON D. ANDERSON
Bowbells, N. D.
North Dakota Agricultural Col., '42
LLOYD F. ANDERSON
Cottage Grove, Wis.
■ Univ, of Wisconsin, '39
REMER G. ANDERSON
Dawson, Ga.
Berry College, '42
ROBERT H. ANDERSON, JR.
Roanoke, Va.
Roanoke, '42
HAROLD O. ANKARBERG
i Eugene, Ore.
Univ, of Oregon, '42
LEROY F. ANTETOMASO
Springfield, Ohio
Univ, of Alabama, '39
ARTHUR APTEL
Cleveland, Ohio
Columbia, '42
RALPH A. ARNOLD
Franklin, Mass.
Massachusetts State College, '36
HAROLD T. ARPIN
Wisconsin Rapids, Wis.
Univ, of California, '38
CHARLES E. ARTHUR
Tuscola, Ill.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
RALPH C. ASHLEY
Cedar Falls, Iowa
Univ, of Chicago, '42
[74]
MICHAEL P. ASPLAND
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Fordham, '42-
KEITH J. AULIK
Antigo, Wis.
Art Institute of Chicago, '41
HENRY W. AUSTIN
Lubbock, Tex.
Texas Technological College, '42
JAMES W. AUTER
Louisville, Ky.
Univ, of Louisville, '42



MILTON L. AUTRY
Snyder, Tex.
Hardin-Simmons, '42
ROY E. BACON
Abilene, Tex.
Hardin-Simmons, '42
ROBERT E. BAILEY
Michigan City, Ind.
Purdue, '41
HAROLD W. BAKER
Omaha, Neb.
Univ, of Oklahoma, '37
O' "
r ■*?
(
HEATH BAKER
Peabody, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
JAMES P. BALDING, JR.
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of North Carolina, '40
JACK T. BALL
Atlanta, Ga.
Georgia Evening College, '42
RICHARD E. BALL
Buffalo, N. Y.
Notre Dame, '41
[75]
DONALD F. BANDLE
Jennings, Mo.
St. Louis Univ., ’42
HENRY BARAK
Detroit, Mich.
Wayne, ’42
MAURICE BARBAKOW
Los Angeles, Calif.
Univ, of Southern California, ’40,
FRANK W. BARBEE
Akron, Ohio
Univ, of Akron, ’42
GERALD O. BARGER
Mankato, Minn.
Mankato Teachers’ College, ’40
MARIUS I. BARGER, JR.
Wilburton, Okla.
Southeastern State, ’42
CECIL A. BARNETT
Jackson, Miss. -
Mississippi Slate, ’38
MILES W. BARNES, JR
Caldwell, Kan.
Univ, of Chicago, ’42
CLARENCE J. BARR
Marshall, Mo.
Rockhurst College, ’42
FRANK R. BARRON, JR.
Redlands, Calif.
Univ, of California, ’42
WILLIAM E. BASS, JR.
Hazclhurst, Miss.
Univ, of Mississippi, ’42
C. LEE BASSETT
Green Bay, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, ’42
[76]	j
i
■	■	■ i
STANLEY F. BASSETT
Ironwood, Mich.
Northern Michigan, '42
FREDERIC H. BATHKE, JR.
Hudson, Wis.
Mac ales ter, '42
GEORGE BAUSEWINE
Cincinnati, Ohio
Univ, of Cincinnati, '42
GORDON P. BAXTER
Bowling Green, Mo.
William Jewel College, '42
JACK A. BAXTER
Memphis, Tenn.
Memphis State, '42
ROBERT E. BAXTER, JR.
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Hillsdale College, '40
DAVID S. BAYS
Cumby, Tex.
East Texas State, '39
VINCENT W. BEACH
Greenwood, Ark.
Univ, of Arkansas, '39
NELSON B. BEAMAN
Parma, Mich.
A'liami Univ., '40
A. V. BEARDSLEY, JR.
Gridley, Kan.
Arizona State, '43
C. R. BEAUREGARD
Berwyn, Ill.
Loyola of Chicago, '41
RAYMOND F. BECK
Bainbridge, Ind.
Central Normal College, '42
[77]
BERTRAM C. BECKER
Los Angeles, Calif.
Univ, of Minnesota, '41
CHARLES M. BECKER
Racine, Wis.
Lake Forest College, ’ 42
JOHN T. BECKER
Pontiac, Mich.
Michigan Slate College, '42
JOSEPH C. BECKMAN, JR.
Tacoma, Wash.
Washington Stale, '42
ELDEN L. BEEBE
Bucklin, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
RICHARD L. BEEM
' Battle Creek, Mich.
Michigan State, '42
DONALD R. BELL
Bowling Green, Ohio
Davidson College, '42
JOHN F. BENHAM
Mineola, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, '42
DONALD S. BENNETT
Bardstown, Ky.
Univ, of Kentucky, '41
MARTIN BENNETT
Elmhurst, N. Y.
Amherst College, '38
J. KRISTINN BENSON
Upham, N. D.
Univ, of North Dakota, '40
JOHN JOSEPH BENTLEY
Los Angeles, Calif.
St. Mary's, '39
[78]
HARRY BERCHIN
Conemaugh, Penna.
Indiana State, '42
CURTIS E. BERG
Sharon, N. D.
N. D. Agricultural College, '42
ROBERT H. BERKOWITZ
Hillside, N. J.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, '42
ARTHUR F. BERLINER
Ridgewood, N. J.
Roanoke College, '38
JAMES T. BERRY
Greenville, S. C.
Newberry, '42
J. C. BERSSENBRUGGE
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin. '42
H. RADFORD BEUCLER
Bergenfield, N. J.
Lehigh, '41
FRANK R. BICKEL, JR.
Yeadon, Penna.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, '39
RICHARD E. BIGELOW HAROLD Y. BILLS A. GLEASON BISHOP, JR. CHARLES M BLALACK
Grand Rapids, Mich.	Trenton, N. J.	Madison, Wis.	Sherman, Tex.
De Pauw, '42	Trenton State, '41	Univ of Wisconsin, '41	Baylor, '42
[79]

GUY BLANKENSHIP, JR.
Crockett, Tex.
Schreiner Institute, ’34
WILLIAM L. BLOCK
Sapulpa, Okla.
Oklahoma A. & M., ’42
EDWIN E. BLOOM
Rantoul, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, ’41
ROBERT LEE BOONE
Portsmouth, Va.
Elon College, ’42
WILLIAM R. P. BOONE
Marshall, Tex.
Duke, ’41
PHILIP E.'BORDY
Silver Creek, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, ’42
NORMAN F. BOUCHER
Waterbury, Conn.
Tale, ’42
ROBERT J. BOURGEOIS
Erath, La.
Southwestern Louisiana, ’37.
CLYDE O. BOWEN
Pawnee, Okla.
Central State, ’40
JAMES R. BOYD
Larned, Kan.
Kansas Univ., ’42
JAMES A. BRADIN, II
Drexel Hill, Penna.
Temple, ’42
JOHN G. BRADLEY
Waycross, Ga.
Univ, of Georgia, ’42
[ 80 ]

WILLIAM G. BRANGHAM
Warren, Ohio
Mount Union College, '42
JOSEPH BRESLER
Bridgeport, Conn.
Univ, of Virginia, '42
C: DON BRIGGS
Ames, Iowa.
Iowa Slate, '39
HENRY B. BRIGGS
Merion, Penna.
Princeton, '41
JAMES M. BRIGGS
Des Moines, Iowa
De Pauw, '42
FRANK O. BRINK.
New Albany, Penna.
Marysville, '41
CLARKE H. BROOKE, JR.
Seattle, Wash.
Univ, of Washington, '42
L. G. BROUGHTON HI
Knoxville, Tenn. .
Univ, of Tennessee, '42
ACTON R. BROWN
Sylvan Grove, Kan.
Kansas State, '42
JACK WARREN BROWN
Sullivan, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '41
EDWARD M. BROWNE
Dedham, Mass.
Boston College, '42
CHARLES T. BRUCE
Mount Vernon, Tex.
Texas Technological College, '42
[81 ]
JAMES EDGAR BRYAN, JR.
Queenstown, Md.
Univ, of Maryland, ’42
ROBERT S. BRYAN
Stamford, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, ’42
KENNETH E. BRYANT
Perry, Iowa
Central, '42
FRANCIS E. BUCHMAN
Philadelphia, Penna.
Temple, '42
DONALD D. BUCKMAN
Cayville, S. D.
South Dakota State, '42
THOMAS P. BUCKMAN
Minneapolis, Minn.
Colorado College, '41
ROY S. BUDD
Slater, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
ROBERT C. BURDEN
Buffalo, N. Y.
Oberlin, '42
RICHARD J. BURDGE
Eldorado Springs, Mo.
Kansas Univ., '41
ROBERT H. BURGESS
Petersburg, Va.
Randolph—Macon, '40
ROBERT E. BURKE
Teancck, N. J.
Notre Dame, '42
WILLIAM R. BURKE
' Pasadena, Calif.
U. C. L. A., '40
[82]
WILLARD A. BURTON
Huntsville, Mo.
Missouri Stale Teachers, '40
DAVID C. BURWELL
East Berlin, Conn.
Oregon State, '41
ALEXANDER W. BUSBY
Camp Hill, Penna.
Muhlenberg, '42
GRANVILLE M. BUSH, JR.
Kansas City, Mo.
Kansas Univ., '42
CORNELIUS T. BUSHOR
Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern, '42
EDWARD L. BUTLER
Duxbury, Mass.
Amherst, '36
EDGAR J. BUTSCHEK
Moulton, Tex.
. Texas A. & M., '40
J. M. BUTTERWORTH, JR.
Baltimore, Md.
Wake Forest College, '42
DUDLEY W. BUTTS
Jamestown, N. D.
Jamestown College, '42
DONALD H. BYERLY
Philadelphia, Penna.
Oberlin, '40
JOHN F. CAHILL
Waseca, Minn.
College of St. Thomas, '42
MALCOLM G. CAIRNS
East Orange, N. J.
Montclair State, '41
[83]

T. H. CALHOUN, JR.
Boston, Mass.
Harvard, '39
ROBERT M. CALLAHAN
Highland, N. Y.
Alfred, '42
RICHARD J. CAMP
Hicksville, Ohio
Bowling Green Stale, '42
JOHN F. CAMPBELL
St. Paul, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesola, '40
SAMUEL S. CAMPBELL
Martins Ferry, Ohio
Ohio State, '42
WOODLEY C. CAMPBELL
Montgomery, Ala.
Tulane, '40
ROBERT C. CANNADA
Edwards, Miss. .
Univ, of Mississippi, '42
JOSEPH C. CANTRELL, JR.
Bedford, Ky.
Western Kentucky State, '38
ROBERT E. CAREY < FRANK J. CARLISLE, JR.
Kansas City, Mo.	Fargo, N. D.
Kansas Univ., '42	North Dakota Stale, '42
P. S. CARLTON, JR.
Salisbury, N. C.
h VzAe Forest, '41
CLIEVE C. CARMICHAEL
Ridgway, Colo.
Univ, oj Colorado, '40
[84]
O. C. CARMICHAEL, JR.
Nashville, Tenn.
Vanderbilt, '40
JAMES L. CASSEDY
Alexandria, Va.
Randolph—Macon College, '42
HOMER H. CASTEEL, JR.
Canton, Miss.
Univ, of Mississippi, '42
S. J. CAVALLARO
New York City
City College of New York, '42
JOHN M. CAWLEY
Trinidad, Colo.
Univ, of Colorado, '40
MILO W. CHALFANT
Milford, Iowa
Drake, '39
DAVID D. CHAPIN
Saunderstown, R. I.
Cornell, '42
ALLEN W. CHAPLINE
Kankakee, Ill.
Northwestern, '40
EDGAR H. CHAPMAN
Silver Lake, Ohio
Kent State, '42
GEORGE R. CHAPMAN
Hammond, Ind.
De Pauw, '42
THOMAS E. CHARLES
Woodstock, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '40
EDWIN N. CHARNIN
Jamaica, L. I., N. Y.
Queens College, '42
[85]
DAVID G. CLARK
Craig, Neb.
Univ, oj Nebraska, '42
EVERETT S. CLARK
San Jose, Calif.
San Jose Stale, ’47
WILLIAM C. CLARK
Lubbock, Tex.
Texas Technological College, '42
JACK H. CLAYTON
Haughton, La.
Louisiana Normal, '36
JOHN H. CLAYTON
Stem, N. C.
Wake Forest, '42
M. G. CLEMENTS, JR.
Greenwood, Miss.
Mississippi Southern College, '42
GEORGE R. COBLE
Greensboro, N. C.
North Carolina Slate, '42
LARUE COCANOUGHER
Danville, Ky.
Centre, '37
[86]
JOSEPH M. COCCELLATO
San Francisco, Calif.
San Francisco Junior College, '38
LEROY B. COCHRAN
Valparaiso, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '41
H. IRWIN COFFIELD, JR.
High Point, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina, '36 ■
SEYMOUR L. COHN
Los Angeles, Calif.
U. C. L. A., '41
CARROLL D. COLBY
Worcester, Mass.
Western Reserve, '41
JAMES F. COLE, JR.
El Paso, Tex.
Texas Mines, *41
BILLY C. COLEMAN
Saluda, S. C.
Univ, of South Carolina, '38
EDWARD A. COLEMAN
Richwood, W. Va.
Berea, '42
GLEN W. COLEMAN
Covington, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
LONNIE W. COLEMAN
Montgomery, Ala.
Univ, of Alabama, '42
JOHN W. COLGLAZIER
Salem, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
GEORGE L. COLLIER
Upland, Calif.
Chaffey Junior College, '41
[87]

WILLIAM F. COLLINS
Madison, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin,’42
EDGAR K. COLLISON, JR.
Evanston, Ill.
De Pauiv, ’41
c. McFarland combs
Kansas City, Mo.
Loyola, Los Angeles, ’42
ABE CONDIOTTI
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Brooklyn College, ’42
PHILIP H. CONLEY
Jackson, Mich.
Univ, of AUchigan, ’41
GERALD M. CONNORS
Toledo, Ohio
Univ, of Toledo, ’42
FRANK C. CONRAD
West Allis, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, ’41
EDWARD S. CONWAY
Seminole, Okla.
Univ, of Texas, ’39
FRENCH H. CONWAY
Danville, Va.
Univ, of Virginia, ’41
W. L. CONYNGHAM
Wilkes-Barre, Penna.
Tale, ’42
JOE J. COOK
St. Louis, Mo.
Northwestern, ’42
WILLIAM H. COOMBS
Youngstown, Ohio
Wittenberg, ’42
[88]
ROY H. COPPERUD
Virginia, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '42-
WILLIAM E. CORBETT
Memphis, Tenn.
Memphis State, '41
ARTHUR R. CORBY
Jersey City, N. J.
Bucknell, '37
WILLIAM L. CORNELIUS
Seaman, Ohio
Ohio Slate, '42
EDWARD C. COSGROVE
Kansas City, Mo.
Rockhurst, '42
WILLIAM E. COTNER
Mt. Carmel, Ill.
De Pauw, '42
DENZEL E. COWAN
Aldrich, Mo.
Springfield Teachers', '37
JOHN H. COWAN
Cincinnati, Ohio
Hanover College, '42
MARTIN L. COWEN, JR.
St. Clairsville, Ohio
Univ, of Virginia, '42
ROBERT H. COWEN
Williamston, N. C.
I Vake Forest, '42
CLIFTON V. COX
Westboro, Mo.
Northwest Missouri Stale, '39
WILLIAM C. COX
Graccvillc, Minn.
St. John's, '42
[89]


JOHN C. CRANDALL, JR.
Jamestown, N. Y.
Houghton, ’39
JOHN F. CRANE
Wood-Ridge, N.J.
Rutgers, ’42
CHARLES G. CRANEY
Cannelburg, Ind.
Western Michigan, ’39
DU VAL CRAVENS
Albany, N. Y.
Dartmouth, ’38
WILLIAM F. CRAWFORD s
Mobile, Ala.
Univ, oj Oklahoma, ’42
EUGENE A. CREANY
Nanty-Glo, Penna.
St. Francis College, ’42
WILMER H. CRESSMAN
Allentown, Penna.
Muhlenberg College ’42
BERNARD A. CRIMMINS
Louisville, Ky.
Notre Dame, ’42
GORDON M. GRITCHELL
Ann Arbor, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, ’42
JACK L. CRITTENDEN
Kalamazoo, Mich.
Alma, ’42
JOHN E. CROW
Dixon, Ky.
Union, ’42
EARL F. CROWDER
Cherokee, Okla.
Univ, of Oklahoma, ’39
[90]

CHARLES M. CROWELL
Raymondville, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, '39
JOSEPH F. CUMMINS
Austin, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '39
ALLEN L. CUNNINGHAM
Mulberry, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
ANDREW L. CURRAN
Raleigh, N. C.
North Carolina Stale, '40
ROBERT E. DAGGETT
Portland, Ore
Willamette, '42
WALLACE J. DALEY
Los Angeles, Calif.
Loyola, Los Angeles, '42
LYLE E. DALLEFELD
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '42
THOMAS W. DALTON, JR.
Buffalo, N. Y.
Canisius College, '42
JAMES W. DANHAUER
Owensboro, Ky.
Louisville College of Pharmacy, '42
LESLIE J. DANIEL
Weston, Ohio
Bowling Green, '37
SIDNEY T. DANIEL
New York City
New Fork Univ., '42
RICHARD K. DAVEY
El Paso, Tex.
Texas College of Mines, '42
[91 ]


DONALD H. DAVIDSON
Carthage, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
WILLIAM S. DAVIDSON
Williston, N. D.
Northwestern, '42
CARLE E-. DAVIS
Bluefield, W. Va.
Concord College, '42
CHARLES J. DAVIS
New York City
New York Univ., '42
NORTHROP DAWSON, JR.
St. Paul, Minn.
Williams College, '37
JAMES H. DEAN
Minneapolis, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '37
WILLIAM H. DECK
Knoxville, Tenn.
Univ, of Tennessee, '40
MARVIN E. DECKER
Milwaukee, ,Wis.
Marquette, '41
OTHA W. DEEN CHARLES E. DeLANCEY GEORGE B. DeLOATCHE
Mansfield, La.	Wilmington, Del.	Conway, N. C.
SouthwesternLouisianaInstitute,'4O	. Duke, '42	North Carolina State, '42
ROBERT W. DENT
Seattle, Wash
Univ, of Oregon, '40
[92]
FREDERICK A. DeVOE
Muncie, Ind.
Ball Stale Teachers', '42
LEONARD E. DEVRIES
Queens Village, N. Y.
Queens College, '42
THOMAS J. DEWEY, JR.
New Roads, La.
SouthiveslernLouisianaInstitute,'40
ROBERT H. DEZELL
Seattle, Wash.
Univ, of Washington, '39
ARLO T. DIETZ
Cogswell, N. D.
North Dakota State, '41
JAMES P. DIFORIO
Mamaroneck, N. Y.
Univ, of Vermont, '41
HAROLD E. DILDY
Elgin, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, '42
henry s. Distefano
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Brooklyn College, '41
ELDON M. DIXON
Sea Cliff, N. Y.
Syracuse, '40
WOODROW G. DOAK
Blanco, Okla.
Univ, of Oklahoma, '40
JAMES R. DODSON, JR,
Norfolk, Va.
Univ, of Virginia, '42
FRANCIS X. DOHERTY
Charlestown, Mass.
Boston College, '40
[93]
HARRY J. DONAGHY, JR.
Brooklyn, N. Y..
St. John's, '40
THOMAS E. DONLEY
Traverse City, Mich.
Michigan State, '42
VINCENT L. DORNEDEN
Gratiot, Wis.
Platteville State, '41
DEAN R. DORT
Davenport, Iowa
Univ, of Iowa, '42
WILLIAM A. DOUGLASS
Detroit, Mich.
Dennison, '42
OWEN K. DOWNEY
Hope, Ind.
Franklin College, '42
GEORGE F. DOYLE
Nicholasville, Ky.
Univ, of Kentucky, '42
WILLIAM J. DOYLE
Marion, Ind.
Butler, '42
BURNS O. DRAKE
Hotchkiss, Colo.
Western State Teacher's, '42
ALAN W. DREW
East Orange, N. J.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
DAVID L. DRISCOLL
Rapid City, S. D.
U. C. L. A., '40
SYLVAN DUBINSKI
Houston, Tex.
Univ, of Houston, '41
[94]

CHARLES F. DuBOIS
Madison, Wis.
Univ' oj Wisconsin, '41
RALPH J. DUFFIE
Washington, D. C.
Georgetown Foreign Serv. Sch, '42
JAMES E. DUKES
Atmore, Ala.
Auburn, '42
HAROLD O. DUNCAN
Atlanta, Ga.
Georgia Evening College, '41
JAMES V. DUNLAP, JR.
Fulton, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
JAMES B. DUNSMORE
Parksville, Ky.
Centre, '36
KENNETH G. DUNWELL
Spiritwood, N. D.
Jamestown College, '39
A. HUNTER DUPREE
Lubbock, Tex.
Oberlin, '42
PAUL S. DWYER
Toledo, Ohio
De Sales, '41
ROY A. DYE, JR.
Aliquippa, Penna.
Haverford, '42
JOHN MOISE EASTHAM
Beaumont, Tex.
Texas A. & M., '37
GEORGE A. EBENHACK
Chillicothe, Ohio
Northwestern, '42
[95]
R. E. EBERHARDT
North Bergen, N. J.
New York Univ., '42
FRANK M. EBY
Lancaster, Penna.
Pennsylvania State, '40
JAMES L. EHRINGER
Altoona; Penna.
Bucknell, '42
DALE W. EIKENBERRY
North Manchester, Ind.
Manchester College, '40
WILLIAM E. ELLIS
Upper Darby, Penna.
Catawba, '42
JOHN D. ELLIOT
Charlotte, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina, '42
ROBERT R. ECKART, JR.
Dallas, Tex.
Univ, of Oklahoma, '41
WILLIAM J. EISEMANN
Elmhurst; N. Y.
Queens College, '42
HERMAN D. ELLZEY, JR.
Shreveport, La.
Louisiana Stale, '41
CHARLES D. EGINTON
Brooklyn, N. Y.
St. John's, '41
EBER W. ELDRIDGE
Terril, Iowa
Iowa State, '42
JOSEPH E. ELSTNER, JR.
Kansas City, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
[96]
RAY A. ENDER
Eau Claire, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, ’42
ARTHUR R. ENGLISH
Kankakee, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, ’42
EDWIN K. ENTERLINE
Youngstown, Ohio
Youngstown College, ’42
W. O. ERICKSON
Rugby, N. D.
Univ, of North Dakota, ’42
HOWARD W. ESSIG
Elkhart, Ind.
North Central College, ’42
H. W. ESSLINGER, JR.
Huntsville, Ala.
Alabama Poly. Inst., ’41
CHARLES A. EVANS
Hale, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, ’42
CARNOT W. EVANS
Duluth, Minn.
Northwestern, ’42
JOHN E. EVANS
Burlington, Iowa
Univ, of Iowa, ’42
MAX A. EVANS
Detroit, Mich.
Western Michigan, ’42
HAROLD C. EVARTS
Minneapolis, Minn.
Carleton College, ’42
CHARLES W. EWING
Beaver, Penna.
Geneva College, ’42

[97]
C. H. EYERMANN, JR.
St. Louis, Mo.
Vanderbilt, '42
ARTHUR L. FABRICK
Gainesville, Fla.
Univ, of Florida, '42
RALPH FALK II
Boise, Idaho
Dartmouth, '42
LOUIS K. FAQUIN, JR.
Memphis, Tenn.
Spring Hill College, '44
VTLUAAM. R. FARMER
Riverside, Calif.
Occidental College, '42
WILLIAM W. FARMER
Greentop, Mo.
Kirksville State, '40
WILLIAM A. FEDER
Scarsdale, N. Y.
Johns Hopkins, '41
VERNON L. FEILER
Elmwood, Wis.
Stout Institute, '42
BENJAMIN FERN
Flushing, N. Y.
Queens, '42
F. M. FERNANDEZ; JR.
Shell Beach, La.
SouthivesternLouisianaInstitute,'4O
HARRY J. FIELDS
St. Louis, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
GORDON FIFER
Los Angeles, Calif.
U. C. L. A., '42
[98]
FOREST N. FISCH
Worthington, Minn.
Colorado State, '40
RALPH R. FISH
Eau Claire, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
CHARLES E. FISHER
St. Clair, Mich.
Western Michigan, '42
ROBERT G. FISHER
Monticello, Ind.
Wabash College, '42
RICHARD W. FISHER
Fish Creek, Wis.
Univ, of Chicago, '39
ROBERT E. FITZGERALD
Yanktown, S. D.
Creighton, '42
HUGH W. FLANAGAN
New York City
New York Univ., '42
SAMUEL I. FLANEL
Buffalo, N. Y.
Univ, of Buffalo, '41
PHILLIP D. FLETCHER
Appalachia, Va.
Georgia Tech., '41
EDWARD P. FLORES
San Francisco, Calif.
Univ, of San Francisco, '42
RUFUS G. FLYNT
Winston-Salem, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina, '40
WALTER H. FOERTSCH
Rochester, N. Y.
Cornell, '39
[99]
EUGENE B. FONCANNON
Ashland, Kan.
Kansas Slate, '42
JAMES C. FORBES, JR.
East Chicago, Ind.
Wabash, '42
JOHN O. FOUST
Iola, Kan.
Kansas Univ., ’42
DAVID C. FOWLER
Louisville, Ky.
Univ, of Florida, '42
RAY PAUL FOX
Oil City, Penna.
Pennsylvania State College, '42
SIDNEY E. FRANK
Madison, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
OSCAR K. FRANKLIN
Marshall, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
HARRY G. FRASER, JR.
Providence, R. I.
Amherst, '41
THOMAS R. FRAZELL HOWARD FREYENSEE
Fort Wayne, Ind.	Sandusky, Ohio
Franklin, '42	De Pauw, '42
LEON S. FRIEDMAN
Columbus, Ohio
Ohio State, '42
EDMUND C. FROST
Elburn, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '42
[100]

LAWRENCE H. FROWICK
Des Moines, Iowa
Northwestern, '42
PETER L. FULVIO
New York City
N. T. State Teachefs College, '42
WILLIAM K. FUNK
Athens, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
PHILIP M. FURBAY
Canton, Ohio
Heidelberg, '42
WARREN H. GABELMAN GEORGE B. GANNETT, JR.
Tiiden, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, '42
St. Louis, Mo.
Washington Univ., '40
EDMUND T. GARDINER
Des Moines, Iowa
Central College, '42
VNUS. GARDT
Haverhill, Mass.
Univ, of Alabama, '40
HARRY E. GAVEY
Chicago, Ill.
Beloit, '41
CLARENCE A. GARVIN
Clarksville, Tenn.
Univ, of Tennessee, '42
WILLIAM A. GEHRKE
Sheboygan, Wis.
Marquette, '42
JAMES G. L. GENIUS
Baton Rouge, La.
Louisiana State, '42
[101 ]
WILLIAM W. GIANNINI
Princeton, Ky.
Western Kentucky Teachers, '40
MAX W. GIBBS
Boston, Mass.
Boston College, '37
KEITH F. GILLETTE
Girard, Kan.
Kansas State, '41 .
JAMES W. GILLISPIE
Reserve, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
RUSSELL A. GILMORE, JR.
Michigan City, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '41
ELDIN H. GLANZ
Wauseon, Ohio
Valparaiso, '41
THOMAS J. GLENNON WILLIAM J. GLENNON, JR.
Arlington, Mass.	New York City
Boston College, '40	Fordham, '39
MARVIN H. GOLDMAN
Detroit, Mich.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, '41
JOHN G. GOODALE
Richfield Springs, N. Y.
Geneseo State, '42
WILLIAM J. GOODHEART
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Purdue, '42
FRANK H. GORIS
Lafayette, Ind.
Purdue, '42 '
[ 102 ]
I

JAMES H. GORMSEN
Aurora, Ill.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
WILLIAM R. GOSGHE
Minneapolis, Minn.
N. III. College of Optometry, '42
VYRON GRACE
Millville, N. J.
New Jersey State, '42
JOE H. GRAHAM
Anderson, S. C.
Clemson College, '42
GAZEXER G. GREEN, JR.
State College, Penna.
Pennsylvania State, '42
JOHN GREEN, JR.
Winter Park, Fla.
Rollins College, '42
ROBERT S. GREENFIELD
Mt. Vernon, N. Y.
Univ, of South Carolina, '40
BEN Z. GREENWALD
Louisville, Ky.
Louisville College of Pharmacy, '42
C. RICHARD GRIESER
Springfield, Ohio
Ohio State, '42
BURT L. GRIFFIN
Glen Ellen, Calif.
Univ, of California, '42
HENRY P. GRIFFIN, JR.
McAllen, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, '36
RAY W. GRIFFIN
La Grange, N. C.
North Carolina State, '41
[103]

JOHN M. GRIMLAND, JR.
Fort Worth, Tex.
Texas Christian, ’39
KURT A. GROSS
San Jose, Calif.
San Jose State, ’39
ORVILLE GROSS
Louisville, Ky.
Union, ’42
SYDNEY L. GUNNER
Brooklyn, N. Y.
New York Univ., '42
WILLIAM L. GUY
Amenia, N. D.
North Dakota Slate, ’41
[104]
[ 105 ]
ROBERT HAAKENSON
Luverne, Minn.
Augustana, ’42
LARS E. HALAMA
Belen, N. M.
Univ, of Colorado, ’42
DAVID HABEL
Teaneck, N. J.
Bowling Green, ’43
PAUL S. HALDEMAN
York, Penna.
Penn State, ’40
RALPH J. HALK
- Long Beach, Calif.
Univ, of California, ’42
WILLIAM P. HALL
Bellbrook, Ohio
Wabash, ’42
GENE E. HALLSTRAND
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, ’40
ALEX C.' HAM, JR.
St. Louis, Mo.
Washington Univ., ’41
JAMES F. HAMILTON
Gary, Ind.
Univ, of Miami, ’42
JAMES H. HAMM
Lakeland, Ga.
Young Harris, ’39
LYMAN L. HANDY
Lynden, Wash.
Univ, of Washington, ’42
ROBERT E. HANKS
Frisco City, Ala.
Alabama State Teachers, ’42
[106]
JOHN F. HANS
New York City
City College of New York, '41
JOSEPH R. HANSON
Elgin, Iowa
Iowa Slate, '37
HALE E. HANSEN
Preston, Iowa
Iowa Stale, '41
ROBERT W.' HARGRAVE
Evansville, Ind.
Notre Dame, '42
WM. A. HARGRAVE, JR.
Salina, Kan.
Kansas Wesleyan, '42
HAYNES L. HARKEY, JR.
Lake Providence, La.
Louisiana Polytechnic, '41
MAX HARLEY
Hollansburg, Ohio
Miami Univ., '42
JAMES T. HARPER
Kansas City, Mo.
Central College, '42
CHARLES W. HARRIS
Doniphan, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
JOHN K. HART
Box Springs, Ga.
Alabama Polytechnic, '41
SEWARD L. HART
Fedora, S. D.
Yankton College, '38
WILLIAM G. HART
Shelbyville, Tenn.
Tennessee Tech., '42
[107]
NORBERT G. HARTMAN
Ross, Calif.
Uniu. of California, '41
WILLIAM M. HARVIN
Louisville, Ky.
Univ, of Louisville, '42
ROBERT M. HAWKES
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
JOHN H. HAYOB
Marshall, Mo.
Missouri Valley, '42
CHARLES HEANEY
New York City
Manhattan, '39
BERRY W. HEARN
Ward, Ala.
Univ, of Alabama, '42
JOSEPH J. HEINDEL
Fairview, N. J.
Saint Peter's College, '40
JACK P. HELLUM
Mt. Berry, Ga.
Stout Institute, '38
C. H. HENDRICKSON
Frederick, Md.
Reed College, '42
DAVID W. HENDRY
Berkeley, Calif.
San Francisco State, '41
LYLE HENSLEIGH
Jordan, Mont.
Montana State, '39
ROY J. HENSLEY
Central Point, Ore.
Univ, of Oregon, '42
[108]
————
CECIL E. HERREN
Lanett, Ala.
Georgia Tech, *42
MACK HIATT, JR.
Amarillo, Tex.
Univ, of Oklahoma, *42
' JOHN C. HICKEY
Indianapolis, Ind.
Butler, *42
FLOYD W. HICKS
Detroit, Mich.
Michigan State, *42
SMITH HIGGINS, JR.
Nunda, N. Y.
Geneseo State, *42
THOMAS P. HIGGINS
East Grand Rapids, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, *42
WILFRED HIGHTOWER
Summerfield, La.
Louisiana Polytechnic, *42\
DAVID W. HILDNER
Oberlin, Ohio
Oberlin, *42
DAILY F. HILL
Madison, Ind.
Hanover College, '42
ROBERT S. HILL
Ottawa, Kan.
Ottawa Univ., '42
FRANK E. HILTON
Hardin, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, *42
HERMAN G. HIMES
Ladoga, Ind.
Purdue, *41
[109]
GEORGE A. HINES
Woonsocket, S. D.
Univ, of South Dakota, '42
ANDREW M. HINSON
Montgomery, Ala.
Troy State, '42
RICHARD L. HIRSHBERG
Cleveland, Ohio
Oberlin, '40
W. DeFORD HITE
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Butler, '42
ROBERT T. HOBBS
Raleigh, N. C.
Duke, '42
LLOYD C. HOENE
Sullivan, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
CHARLES HOFFMANN
Laurelton, N. Y.
Queens, '42
GEORGE A. HOFFMAN
Marfa, Tex.
Sul Ross State, '42
ROBERT M. HOFFMAN
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
ROBERT E. HOLCOMBE THOMAS B. HOLLIS
Beloit, Wis.	Philadelphia, Penna.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '41 Phila. Col. of Pharmacy <2? Sc., '37
PAUL N. HOLMES
Missoula, Mont. .
Montana State, '42
[HO]

SAM F. HOLMES, JR.
Troup, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, '42
U. HAYES HOLMES
Louisville, Ky.
Univ, of Louisville, '42
NORMAN A. HOLSTEIN
Cleveland, Ohio
Western Reserve, '42
GAIL B. HOOD
Joplin, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
FRANCIS L. HOOVER
Davidson, N. C.
Appalachian, '40
HARWOOD HOOVER
Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern, '42
VICTOR O. HORNBOSTEL
Arkansas City, Kan.
Kansas State, '42
DONALD HORTON
West Allis, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
HARRY HORVITZ
Shaker Heights, Ohio
Univ, of Pennsylvania, '42
ALEXANDER HORWITZ
Elmira, N. Y.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, '38
WILLIAM J. HOTCHKISS
Meyersdale, Penna.
Bridgewater, '42
OSCAR E. HOUSE
Manchester, Ky.
Bowling Green, '42
STEPHEN R. HOVANETZ
North Olmsted, Ohio
Baldwin-W allace, ’38
MARLIN J. HOWARD
San Antonio, Tex.
St. Mary's of Texas, '41
WILLIAM G. HOWARD
McCormick, S. C.
Western Carolina Teachers, '42
DANIEL J. HOWE, JR.
Roanoke, Va.
’ Loyola of Chicago, '42
JAMES H. D. HOWE
Charleston, S. C.
Univ, of South Carolina, '41
ROBERT L. HOWEY
Bruno, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '42
GORDON E. HOYT
Chapman, Kan.
Kansas State, '42
FRANK M. HRUBY, JR.
Cleveland, Ohio
Eastman School of Music, '40
JOHN L. HUFFMAN
Dunkirk, Ind.
Purdue, '42
GUSTAF P. HULTMAN
Cadillac, Mich.
Michigan State, '42
DAVID C. HUME
Schenectady, N. Y.
Univ, of Virginia, '42
LEO M. HUMPHREY
Cedar Rapids, Iowa
Notre Dame, '42
[112]

RALPH W. HUNING
St. Charles, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, ’42
MARVIN M. HUNTER
Lubbock, Tex.
McMurry College, ’41
DANIEL C. HURLEY
Hannibal, Mo.
St. Louis Univ., ’41
ROBERT S. HUSTON
Pittsburgh, Penna.
Monmouth College, ’42
JOSEPH F. HYNES
Cleveland, Ohio
Harvard Law School, ’39
WILLIAM IGLINSKY, JR.
Crowley, La.
Louisiana State, ’41
EUGENE IMBROGNO
Smithers, W. Va.
W. Va. Institute of Tech, ’42
ALEXANDER R. IMLAY
Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Princeton, ’42
BURTON F. INGLIS
Shortsville, N. Y.
Cornell, ’40
WESTON W. INGLIS
Stockton, Calif.
College of Pacific, ’40
ANDREW M. INNES
Andover, Mass.
Boston Univ., ’42
WARREN R. IRWIN
McKees Rocks, Penna.
Duke, ’42
[113 ]



RAYMOND L. JABLONS
• Brooklyn, N. Y.
New York Univ., '39
GRANT JACKSON
Waukegan, Ill.
' Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
HAROLD E. JACKSON
Milton, W. Va.
Marshall, '39
WINFRED O. JACOBSEN
Tecumseh, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, '39

f

1
ROY JAECKEL
Cordele, Ga.
McKendree, '39
HAROLD H. JANSSEN
Golden, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '40
JACK L. JASPER
St. Louis, Mo.
St. Louis Univ., '42
ROBERT W. JEFFERIS
Kansas City, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42



W. RUSSELL JENSCH
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
WAYNE G. JENSEN
St. Ansgar, Iowa
St. Olaf, '42
JAMES S. JENSON
Oakley, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
ALMA H. JEWKES
Castle Dale, Utah
Utah. State, '42
[114]
KENNETH A. JOANIS
Washburn, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, ’42
DONALD C. JOHNSON
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Michigan State, ’42
LAWRENCE E. JOHNSON
Chicago, Ill.
Knox, ’40
LeROY M. JOHNSON
Longmont, Colo.
Univ, oj Colorado, ’42
RALPH F. JOHNSON
Newburyport, Mass.
Northeastern, ’42
VILEY JOHNSON
Madill, Okla.
Oklahoma A. & M., ’38
WESLEY G. JOHNSON
Lockridge, Iowa
Univ, of Iowa, ’40
R. H. JOHNSTON, JR.
Louisville, Ky.
Davidson College, ’37
GOMER J. JONES, JR.
Youngstown, Ohio
Mount Union College, ’40
JACK P. JONES
Memphis, Tenn.
Vanderbilt, ’42
JOHN IRVIN JONES, JR.
Columbus, Ohio
Ohio State, ’42
LEROY C. JONES
Labette, Kan.
Kansas Univ., ’42
[115]
LOUIS B. JONES
Madison, Ark.
Univ, of Arkansas, ’42
WILLIAM A. JONES
Cartersville, Ga.
Univ, of Georgia, ’42
WILLIAM W. JONES
Detroit, Mich.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, ’42
JUEL D. JORGENSEN
Trent, S. D.
Angus tana, ’41
CLIFFORD C. JOYCE
Logansport, Ind.
Ball State, ’42
JAMES H. JOYNER
Atlanta, Ga.
Univ, of South Carolina, ’38
RICHARD S. JUNG
Seguin, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, ’42
STEPHEN R. JUZWIK
Chicago, Ill.
Notre Dame, ’42
H. E. KAERWER, JR.
Oshkosh, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, ’42
JOHN E. KAHELIN
Ashtabula, Ohio
Ohio Univ., ’42
DAVID B. KAHN
Highland Park, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, ’42
JOSEPH KANTER
Portland, Ore.
Univ, of Oregon, ’42
[116]
KARL W. KAPPUS
San Antonio, Tex.
St. Mary's, '42
F. DALE KASER
Baring, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
HENRY D. KASPER
Dixon, Ill.
Illinois College, '42
LINCOLN R. KATZ
Cleveland Heights, Ohio
Johns Hopkins, '40
JOHN W. KAUTZ
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
CHARLES M. KEARNEY
Dixon, Ill.
Notre Dame, '42
RICHARD G. KEDERSHA
Rutherford, N. J.
Rutgers, '41
LELAND B. KEE
Groveton, Tex.
North Texas State, '39
THURMAN H. KEE
Huntingdon, Tenn.
Bethel, '37
THOMAS J. KEEFE
Cincinnati, Ohio
Univ, of Cincinnati, '40
RAY A. KEEN
Manhattan, Kan.
Kansas State, '42
WILLIAM O. KELEHER
Kansas, Mo.
Rockhurst, '42
[117]
DAVID C. KELLER
Hcmplc, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
ROGER F. KELLEY
Grand Rapids, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
EDWIN E. KELLOGG
Naperville, Ill.
North Central, '42
EDWARD J. KELLY
Middletown, N. Y.
Defiance College, '42
GEORGE L. A. KELLY II
Birmingham, Ala.
Duke, '42
MICHAEL D. KELLY
Piper City, Ill.
Notre Dame, '42
JAMES L. KELLY
Bloomington, Ill.
Illinois State Normal, '42
WILLIAM D. KENDALL
Strong City, Okla.
George Peabody College, '42
JOHN M. KENIMER
Franklin, Tenn.
Vanderbilt, '42
RAYMOND J. KENNEDY
Chicago, Ill.
Loyola of Chicago, '42
RUSSELL W. KENNEDY
Bloomington, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
WILLIAM E. KENNEDY
Indianapolis, Ind.
Notre Dame, '42
[118]

BYRON F. KENT
Oconto, Wis.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
LEONARD KENT
Statesboro, Ga.
Univ, of Chicago, '40
RALPH M. KENT
Streator, UI.
Northwestern, '40
ROBERT L. KENT
Ravenna, Ohio
Western Resave, '42
STANLEY A. KERKHOFF
Nickerson, Neb.
Univ, oj Nebraska, '41
PAUL F. KIEFER
Hammond, Ind.
Northwestern, '42
JOHN G. KIMBALL
Syracuse, N. Y.
Syracuse, '42
ERNEST J. KING
Chico, Calif.
Chico State, '41
FRANK S. KING
Waco, Tex.
Baylor, '42
ROBERT P. KING
Taylorville, Ill.
Millikin, '42
ROBERT O. KIPLINGER
Omaha, Neb.
Univ, oj Nebraska, '42
WILLIAM G. KIRK
Gower, Mo.
Univ, oj Missouri, '42
[119]

ALBERT A. KLATT
Chicago, Ill.
Central V.M.C.A., '42
WILLIAM Y. KLETT
Charleston, W. Va.
II rjZ Virginia, '40
SPENCER H. KLEVENOW
Denver, Colo.
Colorado Slate, '40
RAYMOND V. KLIMEK
Cicero, Ill.
Morton Junior College, '40
MARVIN E. KLITSNER
Lancaster, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
FREDERICK D. KNOCHE
Naperville, Ill.
North Central, '42
DANIEL P. KNOWLTON
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '40
HOWARD E. KNOX
South Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
LEONARD S. KOCZELA
Adams, Mass.
North Adams State, '42
MARVIN J. KOERNER
Birnamwood, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
RUSSELL V. KOHR
New Cumberland, Penna.
Northwestern, '42
GWIN J. KOLB
Durant, Miss.
Millsaps College, '41
[120]
JOHN F. KOLLER
Berwyn, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '42
JOHN O. KONOPAK
Toledo, Ohio
Kenjon, '42
JOHN KORF
Freeport, Ill.
Univ, of Chicago, ’42
ABRAHAM KOZER
New York City
Marshall, '41
FREDERICK W. KRAMER
St. Petersburg, Fla.
Miami Univ., '38
ALFRED H. KREZDORN
Seguin, Tex.
Texas A. & M., ’42
NORMAN C. KRIEGER
Cleveland, Ohio
Ohio Univ., '42
PALMER L. KREUTZ
Fargo, N. D.
North Dakota State, '38
JOHN S. KRUKOWSKI
Cleveland, Ohio
Western Reserve, '40
JOHN C. KRUM
Lawrence, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
WALTER G. KRUMWIEDE WILLIAM A. KRUSE
Elkhart, Ind.	Elmhurst, Ill.
Indiana Univ., '42	Elmhurst, '42
[ 121 ]
WILLIAM G. KRUSE
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Butler, '42
WILLIAM M. KRUZAN
Danville, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '41
JACK B. KUBISH
Hannibal, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
JOSEPH F. KUFNER
Maza, N. D.
N. D. Agricultural College, '41
DONALD E. LAGLE
Franklin, Ind.
Franklin College, '42
ERNEST J. LAMBERTI
Orange, N. J.
La Salle College, '36
WILLIAM W. LANCASTER
Greer, S. C.
Furman, '41
CHARLES W. LANDIS
Logansport, Ind. ■
DePauiv, '42
ROBERT L. LANNING, JR.
Pittsburgh, Penna.
Monmouth, '42
W. GRAYSON LAPPERT
Barnesville, Ohio
Mount Union, '42
JOHN R. LAREW
Beckley, W. Va.
West Virginia Inst, of Tech., '42
PAUL J. LARMER
Oak Park, Ill.
Notre Dame, '36
[122]

FREDERICK T. LARSEN
Wolsey, S. D.
North Dakota State, '42
KENT A. LARSON
Minneapolis, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '42
E. LeROY LARSON
Laurens, Iowa
Coe College, '38
LYNN D. LASSWELL, JR,
Waxahachie, Tex.
Trinity, '36
JAMES O. LATIMER
Stow, Ohio
Western Reserve, '42
FRANCIS J. LAUBACHER
Oxnard, Calif.
Univ, of California, '38
OSCAR F. LAURIE
Chatham, N. J.
Lafayette College, '36
JAMES V. LAVELLE
Chicago, Ill. .
St. Joseph's College, '42
JOHN L. LAVELLE
Clinton, Mass. .
Massachusetts State Teacher's, '37
MARK D. LAW
Clear Lake, S. D.
South Dakota State, '41
* PAUL E. LAVIETES
Boone, N. C.
Washington and Lee, '38
IVER G. LAWRENCE, JR.
Chicago, Ill.
Central College, '42
[123]

ROBERT A. LAWTON
Central City, Ky.
Washington and Lee, '42
WARREN W. LEBECK
Westmont, Ill.
North Central, '42
CHESTER W. LEBSACK
Otis, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
CHAUNCEY L. LEEPER
Memphis, Mo.
Univ, of 'Missouri, '39
JOHN W. LEGGETT
New York City
Yale, '42
JOHN W. LEHRER
Sandusky, Ohio
Kenjon, '37
FRANK W. LePAGE
Seymour, Ind.
Carnegie Tech., '42
EDWARD O. LEONARD
Pocatello, Idaho
Univ, of Idaho, '38
ARILD J. LERAGER
Lincoln, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, '42
JACKSON F. LeVARN
Dolgeville, N. Y-
New York State, '42
RICHARD T. LEVINS
Elizabeth, N. J.
Seton Hall, '42
HAROLD LEVKOVSKI
Brooklyn, N. Y.
City College of New York,'42
[ 124]

RICHARD H. LEWIN
Clayton, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '40
CLIFFORD R. LEWIS
Sacramento, Calif.
Univ, of California, '39
ELWYN C. LEWIS
Tomahawk, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina, '42
STUART A. LEWIS
Whittier, Calif.
Univ, of California, '42
MORTON D. LIEBERMAN
Detroit, Mich.
Northwestern, '42
ALPHONSE L. LIQUORI
Whitehall, N. Y.
Cortland State, '42
GERALD T. LITTLEFIELD
Farmington, Me.
Rensselaer Polytechnic, '41
GLEN R. LOCKERY
Rosholt, Wis.
Lawrence, '42
EDWARD H. LOCKWOOD
Tulsa, Okla.
Tale, '42
WILLIAM H. LOFTUS
Hoboken, N. J.
Seton Hall, '42
FRANK L. LOGAN
Portland, Ore.
Northwestern, '38
JOHN J. LOGAN
Lawrence, Miss.
Univ, of Mississippi, '41
[125]
JOSEPH D. LOIDOLD
Port Arthur, Tex.
Univ, oj Texas, '42
EUGENE R. LOPEZ
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Manhattan College, '42
G. WAYNE LOREE
Mt. Morris, Mich.
Michigan State, '42
A. M. LORENTZSON, JR.
Brunswick, Ga.
Centre, '40
GEORGE E. LORIA
Detroit, Mich.
Wayne, '42
ANDREW J. LOVAS
New York City
Fordham, '42
JOHN F. LOVETT
East Pittsburgh, Penna.
Randolph-Macon, '42
MARK L. LOWREY
Hattiesburg, Miss.
Mississippi Southern, '42
JOSEPH H. LUCAS
Philipsburg, Penna.
Lock Haven State, '39
ROBERT T. LUEHMAN
East Orange, N. J.
Rutgers, '40
BLAIR W. LUKE
Salt Lake City, Utah
Queens College, '42
ROBERT S. LUKE
Joplin, Mo.
Kansas Univ., '40
[126]

RAY J. LUND
Fall River, Mass.
Boston Univ., '42
WILBUR H. LUND
Lafayette, Minn.
Gustavus Adolphus, '38
HENRY H. LUNDGREN
Ann Arbor, Mich.
Univ, of Detroit, '42
ROY H. LUNDIN
' Wilmette, Ill.
Carleton College, '42 ■
)
}
KARL K. LUSK
Paris, Ky.
Georgetown College, '37
RICHARD W. LUTHER
Cleveland, Ohio
Western Reserve, '42
DONALD M. LYNCH
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Fordham, '42
ANDREW J. LYNDON III
Macon, Ga.
Univ, of Georgia, ’39
WILLIAM F. LYTLE
The Bronx, N. Y.
New Fork Univ., '42
ANGUS J. MACAULAY
Duluth, Minn.
Duluth State Teachers' College, '39
DONALD S. MACLEOD
Buffalo, N. Y.
Univ, of Rochester, '42
ROBERT M. MacNAMARA
Philadelphia, Penna
Georgetown, '42
[127.]
EDWARD J. MADDEN
New York City
St. John's Univ., '42
CHARLES L. MADISON
Kansas City, Mo.
Univ, of Kansas City, '42
WILLIAM MADISON
Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern, '42
S. P. MAGIELNICKI
Jersey City, N. J.
Seton Hall, '42
MARION E. MAGNUSON
Crofton, Neb..
Morningside College, '38
JOHN P. MAHER
Chicago, Ill.
St. Benedict's College, '38
W. T. MALCOLM, JR.
Nashville, Tenn.
Univ, of Tennessee, '42
BAYARD M. MALLERY
Philadelphia, Penna.
Yale, '42
JAMES R. MALONEY
Mechanicville, N. Y.
New York State, '42
DALE J. MANCHESTER
Buffalo, N. Y.
Univ, of Buffalo, '42
NORTON MANDELBAUM
Chicago, Ill.
College of Pacific, '42
ERWIN E. MANNS
Alton, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '42
[128]
PIETRO V. MARCHETTI
Richmond, Va.
Rutgers, '41
RAYMOND MARGOLIES
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Principia College, '42
ROBERT W. MARKS
Omaha, Neb.
Univ, of Omaha, '41
MALCOLM Y. MARSHALL
Henderson, Ky.
Univ, of Virginia, '42
BERNARD T. MARTIN
Chicago, Ill.
De Paul, '42
C. WALLACE MARTIN
Columbia, S. C.
Univ, of South Carolina, '36
FORNEY F. MARTIN
Webbers Falls, Okla.
Univ, of Oklahoma, '41
JAMES F. MARTIN
Odessa, Mo.
Missouri Valley College, '42
PHILIP G. MARTIN
Valparaiso, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
ROBERT A. MARTIN
Chicago, Ill.
St. Benedict's College, '42
G. B. MARTIN-VEGUE
Miami, Fla.
Univ, of Miami, '42
CHARLES G. MARVEL
Medford, Mass.
Harvard, '41
[129]
LEO MARX
New York, N. Y.
Harvard, ’ 41
JOHN H. MASON II
Barrington, R. I.
Brown, ’39
RICHARD N. MASON
Vinton, Iowa
Iowa State, '41
WILLIAM J. MASSEY
Rosa, La.
Louisiana State Normal, '36
MELVIN W. MATSON
Eveleth, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '42
EDWARD W. MAUTHE
Hackensack, N. J.
Trenton State, '42
GALEN H. MAXFIELD
Minneapolis, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '42
LESTER L. MAY
Dallas, Tex.
Southern Methodist, '41
WILLIAM R. MAYBRY
Memphis, Tenn.
Southwestern, '42
william j. McAuliffe
Oak Park, Ill.
Notre Dame, '42
GEORGE J. McCABE
Davenport, Iowa
St. Ambrose, '42
R. W. McCANDLISH, JR.
Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern, '42
[130]

r. e. McCarthy, jr.
Detroit, Mich.
Denison, '42
ralph t. McClelland
Minneapolis, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '42
george f. McConnell Robert s. McCormick
Central City, Neb.
Nebraska Central, '42
Vincennes, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
JOHN E. McCOY
Ingram, Penna.
Penn State, '42
MYRLIN McCULLAR
Courtland, Ala.
Univ, of Virginia, '41
john r. McCullough
Salem, Ore.
Willamette College of Law, '40
EDWARD E. MCDONALD
Janesville, Wis.
De Pauw, '42
RICHARD W. McEWEN
Toledo, Ohio
Univ, of Toledo, '42
HOYT H. McFALL, JR.
Kansas City, Mo.
Univ, of Kansas City, '42
ROBERT F. McFALL
Cleveland, Ohio
Rollins, '42
FRANK J. McGARR
Chicago, Ill.
Loyola, '42
[131 ]

PAUL R. McHAIL
Export, Penna.
Bucknell, '41
ROBERT J. McKEE
South Bend, Ind.
Notre Dame, '42
ROGER D. McKENNA
Madison, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
john o. McKinney
Princeton, Ky.
St. Louis Univ., '42
ALPINE W. McLANE
Linesville, Penna.
Penn State, '41
PAUL C. McMAHON
Harrison, N. J.
Catholic Univ., '41
GEORGE J. McMANUS
New Rochelle, N. Y.
Fordham, '42
WILLIAM H. McMANUS
Bala-Cynwyd, Penna.
St. Joseph's, '40
JOHN F. McNALLY
New York City
St. John's, '42
EDWARD T. McNEELEY
Tazewell, Tenn.
Milligan,'41
DAVID D. McNEILL
New York City
Harvard, '42
EDWARD J. McNELLIS
Chicago, Ill.
De Paul, '42
[132]

HUGH.W. McPHAUL
Red Springs, N. C.
North Carolina State, '40
WILLIAM T. McQUILKIN
Roanoka, Va.
Emory and Henry, '37
S. ARCHIE McRIMMON
Rowland, N. C.
Appalachian, ’42
WILLIAM B. McVEIGH
Brooklyn, N. Y.
St. John's, '42
WILLIAM R. MEAD
Minneapolis, Mirin.
Univ, oj Minnesota, '42
JACK P. MEINERS
Waitsburg, Wash.
Washington State, '42
JAMES R. MEISNER
Wittenberg, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
EDWARD L. MEISTER
Gates Mills, Ohio
Yale, '40
CHARLES B. MELBY, JR.
Whitehall, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
JOHN F. MELKO, JR.
Perth Amboy, N. J.
Duke, '42 '
WM. S. MERCER, JR.
Bowling Green, Ohio
Bowling Green, '42
ROBERT H. MERENESS
Lima, Ohio
Antioch, '42
[133]
Si—
PAUL R. MERRY
Kansas City, Mo.
Baker Univ., ’42
JACK N. MERRYMAN
Lynchburg, Va.
Lynchburg, ’40
ERNEST N. MEYERS
Washington, D. C.
Rutgers, ’42
MERLIN J. MEYTHALER
Monroe, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, ’41
JAMES C. MICHAELSEN
Chicago, Ill.
Illinois Tech, ’42
HARRY W. MIKESELL
Toledo, Ohio
Univ, oj Toledo, ’42
PETER T. MILLARAS
Waterford, Conn.
Boston Univ., ’41
CHARLES B. MILLER, JR.
Allentown, Penna.
Lehigh, ’38
EDWIN C. MILLER
Columbia, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, ’42
JOSEPH J. MILLER, JR.
South Bend, Ind.
Notre Dame, ’42
MELVIN H. MILLER, JR.
Flushing, Mich.
Albion, ’42
PAUL E. MILLER
Elmira, N. Y.
Alfred, ’42
[134]
ROBERT A. MILLER
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Chicago, '42
JOHN L. MIRABILE
New York City
City College of New York, '42
JERRY W. MITCHELL
Horton, Ala.
Univ, of Alabama, ’42
KENNETH D. MOLLOY
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Syracuse, '42
THEODORE G. MOLESKI
East Grand Forks, Minn.
Minnesota Teachers', '42
HANS S. MOLLER, JR.
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Brooklyn College, '41
JOHN E. MONROE
Kahoka, Mo.
Central, '42
WILLIAM J. MOOD
Charleston, S. C.
Charleston, '41
KEITH C. MOON
Hillsboro, Wis.
Stout Institute, '41
N. HOWARD MOORE
Blytheville, Ark.
Univ, of Arkansas, '42 .
ROBERT D. MOORE
Bolton, Ga.
Univ, of Georgia, '42
A. Y. MORGAN
Warren, Ky.
Bowling Green, '39
SB—
[135]
GEORGE E. MORGAN
La Grange, Ill.
Northwestern, ’42
WM. B. MORGAN
Detroit, Mich.
Wayne, '39
GEORGE M. MORLIER
New Orleans, La.
Tulane, '42,
RALPH G. MORRIS, JR.
Bay Shore, N. Y.
Hobart College, '42
DAVID G. MORRISON
Dearborn, Mich.
Western Reserve, '42
WILLIAM J. MOWEN
Rosemont, Penna.
Villanova College, '42
ROBERT.W. MUELLER
Elmhurst, Ill.
Marquette, '42
JOHN H. MULSKI
Salem, Mass.
Fitchburg Slate Teachers, '41
ASHFORD B. MURPHEY
Shamrock, Tex.
Texas Tech., '39
FRANK J. MURPHY, JR.
Kansas City, Mo.
Rockhurst, '42
GERALD M. MURPHY
Constable, N. Y.
Loyola, '41
STUART E. MURPHY
Chicopee, Mass.
Springfield, '42
[136]

MICHAEL J. MURRAY
Chicago, Ill.
St. Joseph's College, '42
[137]

JACK K. NABER
Omaha, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, '42
HAROLD H. NEES
Poland, Ind.
Purdue, '42
JOHN R. NEIMAN
Keiser, Penna.
Dickinson, '42
ROGER W. NELSON
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '37
THEODORE P. NELSON
Stromsberg, Neb.
August ana, '42
HOWARD L. NESS
Toledo, Ohio
Univ, of Toledo, '42
R. L. NETTERVILLE
Wilkinson, Miss.
Univ, of Mississippi, '42
THOMAS J. NEVILLE
New York City
Fordham, '41
GEORGE E. NEWBY, JR. . ARTHUR S. NEWCOMER HOWARD A. NEWMAN GORDON W. NEWTON
Chicago, Ill.	Bryan, Ohio	. Ridgefield, Conn.	Tatum, S. C.
Chicago Teachers', '42	Ohio Northern, '41	Cornell, '42	Wofford College, '37
[139]

A. H. NEYENDORF, JR.
Chicago, Ill.
. Northwestern, '42
RICHARD E. NEYHARD
Philadelphia, Penna.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, '36
CLYDE K. NICHOLS, JR.
Rehoboth, Mass.
Haverford, '42
MAX W. NIEBEL
Findlay, Ohio
Findlay College, '42
BERNHARD W. NIKEL
Brooklawn, N. J.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, '40
ROBERT M. NOELL
Atlanta, Ga.
Vanderbilt, '36
MARTIN J. NOLAN
Trenton, N. J.
Bucknell, '42
ROBERT O. NOLAN
Greensboro, N. C.
Guilford, '42
GUY G. NORRIS
Garden City, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '40
KENNETH M. NORRIS
Oakland, Calif.
Univ, of California, '42
JOHN C. NORTH, JR.
Corpus Christi, Tex.
Baylor, '42
FAUSTINE C. NOWACEK
Plattsmouth, Neb.
St. Benedict's, '41
i
I
I
i
I
i
[ 140 ]

ALBERT J. NUGON, JR.
New Orleans, La.
Tulane, '42
EARL J. OBERMEYER
Buffalo, N. Y.
Buffalo Stale, '42
WILLIAM H. O’BRIAN
Oxford, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina,41
ROBERT J. O’BRIEN
Cleveland, Ohio
Western Reserve, '40
F. P. O’CONNELL
Boston, Mass.
Boston College, '36
JOHN J. O’DONNELL
Madison, N. J.
Manhattan, '42
JEROME J. O’DOWD
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Notre Dame, '42
JOHN E. O’LEARY
Sacramento, Calif.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
HAROLD B. OLSON
Boise, Idaho
Drexel Institute, '42
STANLEY OLSON
Mondovi, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '37
THEODORE R. OLSON
Scandinavia, Wis.
Whitewater State, '42
LLOYD E. ORMAND
Sentinel, Okla.
Southwestern Tech, '42
[141 ]

GEORGE A. ORR, JR.
Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Cornell, '42
CARL D. ORWICK
Alliance, Ohio
Mount Union, '42
JOHN F. ORWIG
Fostoria, Ohio
Denison, '42
WILLIAM U. OSBORN, JR.
White Plains, N. Y.
Syracuse, '42
JOHN A. OSBORNE
Indianapolis, Ind.
Purdue, '42
PARK H. OWEN, JR.
Mt. Pleasant, Tenn.
Sewanee, '42
WkUANM. A. PAPPAS
Indianapolis, Ind.
Butler, '41
STUART A. PARK
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
JOHN H. PARKER
Clinton, N. C.
North Carolina State, '42
ROBERT B. PARKER
Little Rock, Ark.
Univ, of Missouri, '41
ROBERT H. PARKER, JR.
Natchez, Miss.
Mississippi State, '40
WILLIAM G. PARKER
Aulander, N. C.
Wake Forest, '38
[142]
oa
JOHN J. PARLE
Omaha, Neb.
Creighton, '42
WILLIAM R. PARMETER
Minneapolis, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '41
GERALD J. PARNIN
Cleveland Heights, Ohio
John Carroll, '42
EDGAR E. PARRY
Swanville, Minn.
St. Cloud Teacher's, '42
JAMES N. PARTHEMOS
Abbeville, S. C.
Erskine College, '42
JOHN D. PATERSON
East Craftsbury, Vt.
Boston Univ., '42
ROBERT G. PATT
Kansas City, Mo.
Kansas Univ., '35
ARTHUR R. PAULSEN
Tacoma, Wash. .
Univ, of Washington, '40
JOHN R. PAULUS
Wauwatosa, Wis.
Marquette, '42
RICHARD J. PAYNE, JR.
St. Louis, Mo.
Washington Univ., '42
ROBERT S. PA VIS
Staten Island, N. Y.
Indiana Univ., '42
WARREN H. PAVLAT
Boise, Idaho
Univ, of Nebraska, '41
[143]
iCZg
ALBERT A. PAYNE
Athens, Tex.
George Washington, '42 •
JOHN E. PEARSON
Mellen, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
R. VERNON PEARSON
Moline, Ill.
Augustana, '42
FRED R. PEASE
Thorp, Wash.
Washington State, '42
ELMER H. PELHAM
Kingston, N. Y.
New Paltz State, '42
ALBERT E. PENALOSA
Forest Hills, N. Y.
Princeton, '42
ALLAN F. PENNEY
Marengo, Ill.
Carroll, '42
MURRAY B. PEPPARD
Amherst, Mass.
^Amherst College, '39
EDWARD R. PERKINS
Arab, Ala.
Univ, of Tennessee, '42
CARL W. PETERMAN, JR.
Centerville, Kan.
Pittsburg Teachers, '42
DENNIS V. PETERSON
Logan, Utah
Utah State, '39
EDWARD B. PETERSEN
South Pasadena, Calif.
Univ, of California, '40
[144]
RAYMOND K. PETERSON
Cromwell, Conn.
Colgate, '40
BENJAMIN J. PETRUSEK
Wallis, Tex. .
Univ, of Texas, '42
CHARLES N. PETTIT
Bloomfield, Iowa
Univ, of Iowa, '42
RALPH W. PFOUTS
Lawrence, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
JOSEPH J. PHELAN
■ Chinook, Mont.
George Washington, '42
HOWARD M. PHELPS ’
Brea, Calif. .
Univ, of California, '39
WAID D. PHILIPS
Palatka, Fla. •
Univ, of Georgia, '42
BENJAMIN PHILIPSON
Utica, N. Y.
St. Lawrence, '36
CARMON F. PIRRO
Solvay, N. Y.
Catholic Univ., '40
WM. deGAU PITCAIRN
Orange, N. J.
Princeton, '42
TROY N. PITTS
Wesson, Miss.
Millsaps, '42
OTIS B. PLATT
North Platte, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, '42
SB
[145]
WILLIAM PODOLOFF
New Haven, Conn.
Univ, oj Connecticut, '37
GEORGE J. POELTLER
Cranford, N. J.
Stelon Hall, '42
JOHN B. POLANSKI
Buffalo, N. Y.
Wake Forest, '42
FLOYD G. POOLE
Salisbury, N. C.
North Carolina Univ.,'41
ALBERT F. PORRETTO
New Orleans, La.
Louisiana State, '42
CHARLES R. PORTER
Mebane, N. G.
Hampden-Sydney, '41
RALPH I. POUCHER
Queens Village, N. Y.
Queens College, '41
DUANE D. POULTERER
Drexel Hill, Penna.
Franklin & Marshall, '42
WILLIAM H. POWELL
Wichita, Kan.
U. L. C. A., '36
CHARLES H. POWERS
Cary, Miss.
Mississippi State, '37
JOHN L. PRICE, JR.
Cleveland Heights, Ohio
Western Reserve, '42
LYNN W. PRICE
Ramsey, HI.
Univ, ojOklahoma, '38
[146]
BRANTLY R. PRINGLE
Fort Worth, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, ’42
ROBERT D. PRINGLE
Kansas City, Mo.
Northwestern, '39
SAMUEL T. PULLIAM
Richmond, Va.
Duke, '39
WILLIAM H. PURSLEY
Los Angeles, Calif.
Univ, of Texas. '40
THOMAS F. QUINLAN
Lake Bomoseen, Vt.
Notre Dame, ’38
JOHN T. QUINN
Camillus, N. Y.
Syracuse, '42
FRANCIS B. QUINN
Indianapolis, Ind. -
Notre Dame, '42
SEYMOUR RABINOWITZ
San Diego, Calif.
San Diego State, '47
BERNARD RADEMAN
Philadelphia, Penna.
Temple, '40
NORBERT L. RAEMER
Herkimer, Kan.
Kansas State, '42
BINOM J. RALEY
Pine Bluff, Ark.
Univ, of Arkansas, '42
JOHN L. RANEY
Lebanon Junction, Ky.
Western Kentucky State, '42
[147]

HAROLD J. RAPHAEL
Cliffside Park, N. J.
Michigan State, '42
STANLEY S. RAPPORT
Los Angeles, Calif.
New York Univ., '42
CHARLES A. READ
Washington, D. C.
Univ, of Virginia, '41
CHARLES S. REDLINE
Bethlehem, Penna.
Phila. Col. of Pharmacy & Sc. ,'40
LEE H. REED, JR.
Marlin, Tex.
Sani Houston State, '42
LOUIS J. REED
New York City
Queens, '42
RAYMOND M. REED
Smyrna, Ga.
Univ, of Tennessee, '42
WILLIAM F. REED
Eyanston, Ill.
Grinnell, '39
DONALD D. REICHERT
Grand Chain, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '42
JACK A. REID
Sioux City, Iowa
Univ, of Iowa, '42
RALPH L. REID
Quaker City, Ohio
Muskingum, '40
FRED D. REIK
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
[148]
nus

Hsaasoin
ARNOLD C. REINERS
' New York City
New York Univ., '37
JOHN B. REYNOLDS
Toronto, Ont.
McGill Univ., '42
JOHN E. REYNOLDS
Chicago, III.
Chicago Teacher's, '42
RICHARD A. REYNOLDS
' Joliet, Ill.-
Beloit, '42
THOMAS E. REYNOLDS
Moselle, Miss.
Harrison-Stone-Jackson Col. '41
RICHARD P. RHOADS
Trenton, N. J.
Phila. Col. of Pharmacy, '41
JAMES S. RHODES
Atlanta, Ga.
- Emory, '41 ■
WILLIAM B. RHODES
West Palm Beach, Fla.
Univ, of Florida, '40
MILTON P. RICE
Jackson, Tenn.
Lambuth College, '42
EDWARD L. RICHTER, JR.
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
JOHN T. RICKEY
Ravenna, Ohio
Kent State, '42
JOSEPH RIDOLFO
New Orleans, La.
Loyola of the South, '38
[149]
CHARLES S. RIGG
Higginsville, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, '42
EUGENE P. RISTER
El Paso, Tex.
Texas College of Mines, '40
RALPH J. ROBECK
Annandale, Minn.
St. John's, '42
DALE M. ROBERTS
Medford, Ore.
Univ, of California, '41
DOUGLAS L. ROBERTS
Towaco, N. J.
Drew, '42
EVERETT T. ROBERTSON
Gilmer, Tex.
East Texas State, '42
CHARLES W. ROBINSON
Estherville, Iowa
■Drake, '40
CLARENCE A. ROESSLER
Neillsville, Wis.
Univ, of Michigan, '41
SIMONS L. ROOF
Vale, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina, '41
JOHN A. ROOKUS, JR.
Detroit, Mich.
Univ, of Miihigan, '42
THOMAS B. ROOT
Ann Arbor, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, '40
HERMAN ROSENFIELD
Cincinnati; Ohio
Univ, of Cincinnati, '42
[ 150]

CHARLES T. ROSS, JR.
Beckley, W. Va.
Stetson, '41
FRANK ROTELLO
Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Cornell, '41
JAMES McC. ROSS
Charlotte, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina, '42
BENJAMIN B. ROTHBLITH
New York City
Rutgers, '42
BERNARD A. RUBIN
Chicago, Ill.
Northwestern, '42
HARRY T. RUBINO
Philadelphia, Penna.
Philadelphia Col. of Pharmacy, '40
LuVERN H. RUSCH
Raymond, S. D.
South Dakota State College, '38
GEORGE F. RUSSELL
Walthill, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, '42
JOHN K. RYAN
Dayton, Ohio
Miami Univ., '42
ROBERT H. SABIN .
Vineland, N. J.
Rutgers, '42
MARVIN E. SABLOSKY
Indianapolis, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
MELVIN M. SACHS
New York City
City College of New York, '42
JEROME L. SALOMON ROBERT A. SANDERSON JAMES E. SATTERFIELD
San Mateo, Calif.
Univ, of California, '41
Aurora, Ill.
Duke, '42
Glenville, W. Va.
Glenville State, '41
HENRY Q. SAUCIER
Sumrall, Miss.
Mississippi Slate, '41
't.-'
u

11
X,
V
JAMES RALPH SCALES
Shawnee, Okla.
Univ, of Chicago, '42
JOHN F. SCANLON
Columbus, Ohio
Xavier, '42
F.
H. SCHAEFER, JR.
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Chicago, '42
ARIEL L. SCHEIN
Madison, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
i.
1
RICHARD M. SCHERER
Indianapolis, Ind.
Butler, '42
C. DeB. SCHIMMEL
Short Hills, N. J.
Rutgers, '37
ANTHONY P. SCHIRO, III
New Orleans, La.
Loyola of the South, '37
EARL F. SCHLICK
Lorraine, Kan.
Ottawa, '42
[ 152]

m
HENRY D. SCHLINGER
Dallas, Tex.
Southern Methodist, '42
CLIFFORD L. SCHMITT
Buffalo, N. Y.
Univ, of Buffalo, '41
ROBERT M. SCHNEIDER
Kankakee, Ill.
" Univ, of Michigan, '42
STANFORD S. SCHNEIDER
Eureka, Ill.
Eureka College, '42
ROLF H. SCHOLDAGER
Aldie, Va.
Brussels, Belgium, '43
WILLIAM L. SCHOOFS
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
ROBERT SCHRANK
Stevens Point, Wis.
Stevens Point Teacher's, '42
EARLE A. SCHROEDER
Hinsdale, Ill.
Cornell College, '42
F.	C. SCHRODER JR.
St. Paul, Minn.
Macalester, '42
CHARLES G. SCHULTZ
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Chicago, '42
ROSS E. SCHUMANN
Chicago, Ill.
Lawrence College, '42
EDWARD C. SCHWARTZ
Evansville, Ind.
DePauw, '42
[153]
JACK SCHWARTZ
New York City
New York Univ., '42
OTTO E. SCHWARZ
St. Louis, Mo.
Washington Univ., '42
CHARLES S. SCOTT JR.
Bellerose, N. Y.
Hobart College, ’42
JOHN R. SCOTT
Mendenhall, Miss.
Copiah-Lincoln, ’36
ROBERT SCOTT JR.
Sylvester, Tex.
Texas Tech., ’42
MAX D. SEIBEL
Princeton, Ill.
Washington Univ., ’42
JOHN J. SECCO
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Fordham, '42
WILLIAM D. SEIDLER
Montclair, N. J.
Yale, ’42
WALTER C. SEKOWSKI
’ Schenectady, N. Y.
Univ, of Michigan, ’42
HALBERT D. SELBY
Berkeley, Calif.
Univ, of California, ’42
JEROME P. SELIK
Miami Beach, Fla.
Univ, of Florida, ’39
MARK V. SELLIS
Canton, N. Y.
St. Lawrence, ’42
[154]
GEORGE P. SELVIDGE JR.
Ardmore, Okla.
Univ, of Oklahoma, '42
GEORGE S. SEWALD
Kent, Ohio
Kent State, ’42
CHARLES L. SHANK
Cincinnati, Ohio
Univ, of Cincinnati, ’42
R. DONALD SHANK
Redwood City, Calif.
San Jose State, ’40
FRANK D. SHEPPARD
Murfreesboro, Tenn.
Tennessee Stale, ’42
JOHN L. SHEYKA
Bloomfield, N. J.
Fordham, ’42
LOREN B. SHERMAN
Southport, Conn.
Columbia, ’42
ROBERT L. SHOEMAKER
Detroit, Mich.
Capital, ’42
[155]
ORVILLE W. SHOFNER
Levelland, Tex.
■ Texas Tech., ’42
ROBERT H. SHUTAN
Los Angeles, Calif.
U. L. C. A., '39
“Have you heard the latest scuttlebutt, pal?”
rrml
[156]

JOHN L. SHUTT
Nashville, Tenn.
Peabody, '40
SIDNEY J. SILBERMAN
New York City
Columbia, '42
JOHN M. SIMMERS
Detroit, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, '41
WILL M. SIMMONS
Bruce, Fla.
Univ, of Florida, '42
JOHN D. SIMON
Kalamazoo, Mich.
Notre Dame, '38
MARION T. SIMON
Natchez, Miss.
Washington & Lee, '41
DANIEL W. SIMPSON '
Atlanta, Ga.
Univ, of Georgia, '38
ANDREA SINATRA
Niagara Falls, N. Y.
Niagara, '42
MARSHALL F. SINBACK
Fairhope, Ala.
Livingston, '42
SIDNEY H. SISSELMAN
Pittsfield, Mass.
Univ, of Vermont, '42
WILLIAM A. SLAUGHTER
Richmond, Mo.
Central, '40
ALAN R. SLEEPER
Iola, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
[158]

WILLIAM A. SLEEPER, JR.
New Rochelle, N. Y.
Columbia, '42
JOHN E. SLY
Flushing, N. Y.
Cornell, '38
BERNARD J. SMITH
Los Angeles, Calif.
Univ, of Southern California, '41
HAROLD W. SMITH
Decatur, Ala.
Auburn, '41
JAMES W. SMITH
Mapleton, Kan.
Ottawa, '42
JOHN ALDEN SMITH
Franklinton, La.
Southeastern Louisiana College, '41
LOUIS E. SMITH
Yuba City, Calif.
Univ, of California, '40
MARTIN L. SMITH
Racine, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
RAY K. SMITH
Milwaukee, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
RAYMOND R. SMITH, JR.
Portland, Orc.
Univ, of Oregon, '40
ROBERT H. SMITH
Mentor-on-the-Lake, Ohio
Fenn, '42
SAMUEL W. SMITH
Afton, Tenn.
Tusculum, '42
[159]
WILLIAM K. SMITH
Ashland, Ky.
Univ, of Kentucky, '42
WILLIS E. SNOWBARGER
Sylvia, Kan.
Bethany-Peniel, '42
WILLIAM. E. SNYDER
Berkeley, Calif.
Univ, of California, '42
SEYMOUR D. SOLOMON
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
MAXIM P. SOULIER
Broussard, La.
Southwestern Louisiana Inst, '42
HENRY W. SPANBAUER
Pleasant Hill, Mo.
Missouri Valley, '42
DAVID L. SPAULDING
Olney, Tex.
Washington and Lee, '40
G. RALPH SfENGE
Austin, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, '42
HERBERT G. SPENCER
Indianapolis, Ind.
Butler, '42
EDWIN J. SPIEGEL, JR.
St. Louis, Mo.
Dartmouth, '42
HAROLD E. SPONBERG
New Richland, Minn.
Gustavus Adolphus, '40
ROBERT B. SPURLOCK
Bucyrus, Ohio
Ohio Northern, '41
[160]
HARRY R. SROLE
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Chicago, '40
DONALD STALLINGS
New Bern, N. C.
Wake Forest, '38
FRANCIS C. St. AMANT
Baton Rouge, La.
Louisiana Stale, '42
STEPHEN S. STANTON
Ann Arbor, Mich.
Harvard, '38
WHITNEY W. STARK
Ventnor City, N. J.
Univ, oj Pennsylvania, '42
JOHN H. STAUBER
Marshfield, Wis.
Notre Dame, '42
MILDE G. STECK
Jackson, Mo.
Missouri Stats, '41
WILLIAM W. STEINER
Louisville, Ohio
Mount Union, '42
OTTO C. STEINMAYER
Westmount, Quebec
McGill, '42
JOHN A. STEINSON, JR.
St. Louis, Mo.
Washington Univ., '36
MELVIN E. STERN
• New York City
New York Univ., '42
VIRGIL H. STEVENS, JR.
Denison, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, '41
sens
[161 ]
HUGH F. STEVENSON
Scotland, S. D.
Iowa Univ., '39
DAVID STEWART
LaBelle, Fla.
Univ, of Florida, '41
WILLIAM M. STEWART
Maysville, Ky.
Eastern Kentucky State, '37
JOSEPH STILLPASS
Cincinnati, Ohio
■ Univ, of Cincinnati, ’42
WILLIAM STINEHART
Los Angeles, Calif.
Univ, of Southern California, '42
ROBERT C. STITES
Bloomington, Ill.
Southwestern, '42
VIRGIL W. ST. JOHN
Charlotte Court House, Va.
Presbyterian, '39
GEORGE R. STONE
Chicago, Ill.
North Central, '42
DAVID G. STONER
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Wabash College, '42
E. A. STONESIFER, JR.
Baltimore, Md.
Duke, '42
MATTHEW A. STRAM
Sturgeon Bay, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '40
JOHN W. STRATTON
Plain Dealing, La.
Louisiana Polytechnic Inst., '42
[162]

FREDERIC D. STRICKLER
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '40
LUSK C. STUBBLEFIELD
McMinnville, Tenn.
Tennessee Tech., M2
DANIEL K. STUCKEY II
Exeter, N. H.
Princeton, M2
JOHN N. STULL
Moylan, Penna.
Univ, of Pennsylvania, MO
ROBERT STURCZ
Bayonne, N. J.
Univ, of Wisconsin, M1
EUGENE J. SULLIVAN
New York City
St. John's, '42
JAMES F. SUMMERS
Okemah, Okla.
Univ, of Oklahoma, '40
JOHN R. SUNDINE
Moline, III.
Northwestern, '42
NORMAN R. SWARTS
McCordsville, Ind.
Purdue, '41
JOHN M. SWEENEY
Olean, N. Y.
New Fork Univ., '42
LOUIS SWERDLING
New York City
Brooklyn, '42
ROBERT J. SWETT
West Hempstead, N. Y.
Fordham, '42
[163]

ROBERT W. SWIGART
Canal Fulton, Ohio
Capital, '42	■
JOSEPH O. TALLY, JR.
Fayetteville, N. C.
Duke, '40	.
WADE T. TALTON
Smithfield, N. C.
Duke, '42
THOMAS O. TARBOX
Sumner, Wash.
Washington State, '43
JOHN J. TAYLOR
Flushing, N. Y.
St. John's, '43
JOSEPH R. TAYLOR, JR.
Brownsville, Tenn.
Texas Christian, '42
RAYMOND J. TAYLOR
West New York, N. J.
St. Peter's, '42
RANSOM A. TEETER, JR.
McGehee, Ark.
Hendrix, '42
R. VICTOR TEETER
Indianapolis, Ind.
Carleton, '41	■
KENNETH J. TELLIER
Milwaukee, Wis.
Whitewater Teacher's, '42
EDD E. TERRILL
Fort Worth, Tex.
Baylor, '40
EVAN A. TESSIER
Mitchell, S. D.
Crieghton, '42
[164]
WADE G. THEYE
Fort Wayne, Ind.
Indiana Univ., '42
RAYMOND D. THOMAS
Arlington, Va.
Cornell, '42 -
HENRY S. THOMPSON
Beverly Hills, Calif.
Stanford, '42
JAMES B. THOMPSON
State College, Miss.
■ Mississippi State, '42
LESLIE A. THOMPSON, III GEORGE H. THORBECK
JOE E. THOMPSON
Slater, Mo.
Missouri Valley College, '42
JUSTIN B. THOMPSON
East Hampton, N. Y.
Columbia, '42
Tulsa, Okla.
Univ, of Texas, '42
Gonvick, Minn.
Univ, of Minnesota, '40
HOWARD W. THORNTON
Fort Worth, Tex. ’
Univ, of Texas, '42
JOHN W. THORNTON
Lansing, Iowa
Loras College, '42
JOHN J. TIERNEY
Chicago, Ill.
Purdue, '42
ROBERT R. TINSLEY, JR.
Waukegan, Ill.
Carleton, '42
[165]
THOMAS A. TOBIN
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '42
THORVAL T. TOFT
Sturgeon Bay, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '37
JULIUS TOPOL
Boston, Mass.
Boston College, '38
VANCE W. TORBERT, JR,
Short Hills, N. J.
Princeton, '42
JOHNSTON TORNEY
Brookline, Mass.
Harvard, '41
ROBERT C. TOWNSEND
Jackson, Mich.
Univ, of Michigan, '42
ROBERT C. TOWNSEND
Great Neck, N. Y.
Princeton, '42
JOSEPH G. TRAGESSER
Trenton, Ill.
St. Louis Univ., '42
WILLIAM E. TREADWAY
Greenville, Tex.
East Texas State, '40
TOMMY L. TUCKER
— Washington, D. C.
Phillips Univ., '38
THOMAS R. TUCKER
Strong, Ark.
Arkansas A. & M., '42
FRANCIS R. TUCKWILER
Taft, Orc.
Univ, of Oregon, '42
[166]
MICHAEL F. TUOMEY
Chicago, Ill.
Loyola of Chicago, '42
GEORGE L. TURNER
Detroit, Mich.
Wayne, '37
JOHN J. TYRRELL
Beloit, Wis.
Beloit, '42
CHARLES H. UHL
Atlanta, Ga.
Emory, '39
RICHARD G. ULREY
Stockton, Calif.
College of the Pacific, '42
CLAUDE T. UREN
Omaha, Neb.
Univ, of Nebraska, '42
G.	G. VALENTINE
Richmond, Va.
Univ, of Virginia, '41
JOHN C. VAN CAMP, JR.
West Lafayette, Ind.
Purdue, '42
JOSEPH W. VAN CAMP, JR.
Bloomer, Wis.
Univ, of Wisconsin, '42
MERLE W. VANCE
South Gate, Calif.
Santa Barbara State, '41
HOWARD VANDER BEEK
Oskaloosa, Iowa
Univ, of Iowa, '38
WILLIAM B. VAN NESS
South River, N. J.
Afuhlenberg College, '42
[ 167]
L. A. VAN VLISSINGEN
Lake Bluff, Ill.
Kenyon, ’42
HENRY D. VEZIN
Litchfield, Conn.
Princeton, ’42
W. E. VERMILLION
Baker, Ore.
Univ, of Oregon, '38
CHARLES A. WAGNER
Irvington-on-Hudson, N. Y.
Columbia, ’39
NORMAN R. WAGNER
Alhambra, Calif. -
San Jose State, ’39
DALE S. WAHLSTROM
Moline, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, ’42
PHILIP C. WALESBY, JR.
Tacoma, Wash.
College of Puget Sound, ’42
BERTIL C. WALGREN
Evanston, Ill.
Art Institute of Chicago, ’41
JAY RICHARD WALTER
Chicago, III.
Carleton College, ’40
WORTH G. WALKER
Elon College, N. C.
Elon College, ’39
JOHN F. WALLERSTEDT
Kansas City, Mo.
Rockhurst, ’42
BONNIE D. WARREN
Emerson, Ark.
Univ, of Arkansas, ’38
[168]


EDWARD P. WARREN
Cleveland, Ohio
Western Reserve, ’41
DONALD J. WATERS
Brooklyn, N. Y.
St. John's, ’40
CLARK W. WATKIN
Sioux City, Iowa
Carleton, ’42
ELMER E. WATKINS
Denison, Tex.
Univ, of Texas, ’38
ROMULUS S. WATSON
Swan Quarter, N. C.
North Carolina Slate, ’42
DONALD H. WEBER
St. Joseph, Mo.
Univ, of Missouri, ’42
ROBERT D. WEBB
Portland, Orc.
Reed College, ’36
WILLIAM H. WEBSTER
Centralia, Ill.
Carthage College, ’42
LEE D. WEDEKIND
Louisville, Ky.
Univ, of Louisville, ’42
ERNEST B. WEHMEYER
Millburn, N. J.
Franklin and Marshall, ’41
VIRGIL C. WEIDNER
Dorchester, Ill.
Shurtlejf, ’42
JAY J. WEIL, JR.
New Orleans, La.
Tulane, ’42
[169]

SOL S. WEINER
Rock Island, Ill.
Univ, of Chicago, '42
E. M. WEINFURTNER
Shaker Heights, Ohio
Notre Dame, ’42
MAURICE M. WEISBERG
Baltimore, Md.
Univ, oj Colorado, '42
RICHARD T. WELDON
Henderson, N. C.'
Elon College, '42
SIDNEY M. WELLS
Selma, Calif
Fresno State, '42
JACK W. WELTY JEROME S. WENNEKER JOHN E. WERNER
Port Clinton, Ohio	St. Louis, Mo.	Culver, Ind.
Kenjon, '41	Yale, '42	Purdue, '37
THOMAS N. WESTERLIN
7. A. WESOLOWSKI
Shirley, Mass.
Notre Dame, '42
Chicago, Ill.
Univ, of Illinois, '42
BERNARD L. WETTELAND
Gayville, S. D.
South Dakota State, '42
EARLE J. WHEELER
Wyoming, Ohio
DePauw, '42
[ 170]
ELDON G. WHEELER
Rocky River, Ohio
Wooster, '42
WAYNE S. WHERRY
Stratford, Tex.
Univ, of Kansas City, '36
ROY V. WHISNAND
St. Louis, Mo.
Washington Univ., '42
JAMES A. WHITE
Peoria, Ill.
Bradley College, '42
RICHARD A. WHITE
Great Neck, N. Y.
Fordham, '42
RICHARD N. WHITEMAN
Mount Vernon, N. Y.
Bucknell, '42 ■
WALTER H. WHITMAN
Kirkland, Wash.
Univ, of Washington, '42
DAVID C. WHITNEY
Lawrence, Kan.
Kansas Univ., '42
JAMES E. WIDMAN
Los Angeles, Calif.
Santa Barbara State, '42
ROBERT M. WIEMAN
Chicago, Ill.
Central, '42
GEORGE J. WIGGINS
Newark, N. J.
Seton Hall, '42
JOSEPH J. WILLENBRING
Richmond, Minn.
St. John's, '42
[171 ]

ALFRED C. WILLIAMS
Los Angeles, Calif.
Univ, of Arkansas, ’35
G. L. WILLIAMS, JR.
Columbia, S. C.
Univ, of South Carolina, ’42
H.	DAWSON WILLIAMS
Etowah, Tenn.
Berry, ’42
N. T. WILLIAMS, JR.
Elizabethton, Tenn.
Milligan, ’42
NORMAN E. WILLIAMS
Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern, ’42
ROBERT E. WILLIAMS
Glenwood, Iowa
Peru State, '42
WILLARD W. WILLIAMS
Monrovia, Calif.
Occidental, '37	•
R. D. WILLMOTT
Weehawken, N. J.
Syracuse, '42
W. C. WILLUMSEN, JR.
Evanston, Ill.
Northwestern, '42
CHARLES M. WILSON
Erick, Okla.
Southwestern, '42
PAUL F.' WILSON
Queens Village, N. Y.
Manhattan College, '42
ROGER P. WINEMILLER
- Buckner, Mo.
Missouri State Teacher’s, '42
[172]
EDWIN O. WINKWORTH
Detroit, ^vlich.'
Univ, of Detroit, '42
MORRIS C. WINSLOW
Mt. Pleasant, Mich.
Central Michigan, '42
FRED H. WINTER
Grand Rapids, Michi
Hope College, '42
JAMES H. WINTER
Minneapolis, Minn.
Carleton College, '42
GEORGE R. WIRTH
Brooklyn, N. Y.
Brooklyn College, '42
RICHARD J. WITKIND . HERMAN G. WITT
New York City	New York City
Univ, of Virginia, '42	New York Univ., '41
HENRY J. WOJTOWICZ
Depew, N. Y.
Defiance College, '42
JOHN HOWARD WOLF
Chicago, Ill.
Wabash College, '42
W. J. WOLVERTON, JR.
Elkins, W. Va.
Davis and Elkins, '40
ROBERT E. WOOD
Clifton, N. J.
Carnegie Tech., '40
WILLIAM G. WOODS
Longview, Wash.
Univ, of Chicago, '42
[173]
JAMES L. WOODSON
Salisbury, N. C.
Univ, of North Carolina, '39
W. E. WOODSON, JR.
Central, S. C.
Appalachian Slate, '40
RAYMOND WRAY
Linden, Tex.
Austin, '42
A. W. WRIEDEN, JR.
Syracuse, N. Y.
Tale, '42
TED W. WRIGHT
Guin, Ala.
Louisiana State Normal, '42
JOHN J. WUEST
Bellevue, Ky.
Miami Univ., '39
JAMES T. WYMAN
Minneapolis, Minn.
rale, '42
HAROLD XAVIER
Reading, Mass.
Boston U.niv., '42
C. ROBERT YOST
Caldwell, Idaho
College of Idaho, '42
FRANK A. YOUNG
Dallas, Tex.
Southern Methodist, '42
GEORGE C. YOUNG
Decatur, Tex.
Texas A. & M., '42
JAMES R. YOUNG
Dallas, Tex.
Texas Christian, '37
[174]
WILLIAM D. YOUNG
Linden, N. J.
Newark State, '42 ’
EDWARD C. ZAGEK
West Point, Neb. .
Univ, of Nebraska, '42
GEORGE L. ZEVNIK
La Salle, Ill.
Univ, of Chicago, '42
THEODORE R. ZICKOS
Fulton, Mo.
Westminster, '42
HARRY A. ZINK
Steubenville, Ohio
Ohio Wesleyan, '41
[175]
GALLERY
BISHOP
ADMIRAL?
CAN I HELP
IT IF I WAS
FEEL
LIKE A
JOE
BILGED
-IT WAS A GOOD CAMERA ONCE)
NEWMMp
NOTRE DAME M7
"ha ha -
I MADE IT / *’
\YHY CANT
I BE AN
NOTRE DAME 1,853,726
— ANY SIMILARITY TO PERSONS
LIVING OR DEAD PURELY COINCIDENTAL
BORN THIS WAY?
(NAVAL SECRET)
shhh/
Editor-in-Chief, Robert D. Webb	Officer Advisor, Lt. Haralson F. Smith
Business Manager, Carnot W. Evans	Officer Advisor, Lt. (j.g.) Kenneth G. Pearce
Managing Editor, Alfred C. Williams	The Log, Andrew J. Lovas
Makeup Editor, James E. Widman	’ Activities Editor, Richard A. White
Advertising Manager, John E. Sly	Research Editor, Wilmer H. Cressman
Feature Editor, Roy H. Copperud
EDITORIAL BOARD
T. P. Buckman, J. Bresler, M. W. Gibbs, W. O. Erickson, M. A. Adelman, L. Lowery, D. J. Waters, D. E. Cowan,
M. Barbakow, H. T. Abood, W. Scales, S. S. Rapport, D. D. McNeil, J. Sundine, R. J. Kennedy,
H..Horvitz, R. N. Mason, J. Korf, A. Liquori, C. J. Lamberti, J. J. Taylor.
PHOTOGRAPHIC BOARD
Keith J. Aulik	Stuart Murphy	R. H. Shutan
ART BOARD	•
A. G. Bishop, E. J. Obermeyer, H. Casteel, V. W. Torbert, C. A. Roessler, C. A. Wagner, Bertil C. Walgren.
BUSINESS BOARD
George A. Ebenhack, Eugene Imbrogno, O. C. Carmichael, Jr., C. Wallace Martin,
Stephen R. Hovanetz, Robert H. Mereness, Raymond L. Jablons.
[178]
A CALL for men interested in forming a Navy
Glee Club Was made during the first week of
the indoctrination period. It was answered by
forty-five men who, less than two weeks later, be-
gan a series of radio broadcasts. This amazing
work' continued during the time they were here
and the Notre Dame Midshipmen’s Glee Club be-
came an organization of professional grade.
The conductor, R. H. Dezell, although just an-
other Midshipman from a military viewpoint, is
well recognized as a leader in musical circles. Be-
fore coming to Notre Dame he performed as a
violinist with two symphonic groups on the West
Coast and also as assistant conductor of the Tacoma
Symphony Orchestra. Several of his own composi-
tions have been broadcast nationally.
R. M. Kent and D. L. Driscoll moved to the fore
of the group through frequent commendable solo
performances. Both were professional vocalists and
had earned degrees in music and musical theory.
Kent had previously held a position as music
teacher and supervisor in Louisiana. R. J. Taylor,
a former mainstay of the St. Peter’s College Choral
Society, has also contributed occasional solos.
F. M. Hruby, accompanist for the group, holds
a Masters degree from the Eastman School of Music,
where he held a teaching fellowship until entering
cu
V-7 training. Several major symphony orchestras
have played his works and Carnegie Hall concert
programs have often listed his name as soloist.
W. A. Sleeper, former accompanist and assistant
director of the Columbia University Glee Club, is
another music major in the group.
Many of the members, beside their singing tal-
ents, have also earned reputations in other fields of
music. C. H. Hendrickson, an outstanding ex-
ample, plays both the piano and the concertina,
upon which he has performed with the Boston
Symphony Orchestra.
Their broadcast work has been the highlight of
the choral group’s activities. They staged a half-
hour program over WSBT in South Bend every
week and were so well received that they were con-
tacted for a nation-wide hook-up audition. Lt. E.
C. Dollard, former public relations officer, made
most of the plans for the group’s microphone work.
On the station, the Glee Club made a hit with
the Midshipmen through their part in the “Happy
Hour” variety show, staged at the end of the in-
doctrination period. In addition to all the other
events on their calendar, the Glee Club also per-
formed at several of the Midshipmen formals at
the Indiana Club.
[ 179 ]


appy
J'JvU.P
BOTH Brooks Atkinson and Burns Mantle com-
pletely ignored the Notre Dame Midshipmens’
production, “Happy Hour”, which was presented
on October 30, in Notre Dame’s historic Washing-
ton Hall. Neither Olsen nor Johnson, nor Gable
nor LaMarr, nor even the Studebaker Chorus were
principals in the show. There were no Hollywood
contracts for. the lovely female leads, but from the
standpoint of the 1100 Midshipmen who were
there, “Happy Hour” was excellently done, com-
pletely funny and presented in a very shipshape
and seamanlike manner.
The writing was done by J. W. Leggett and A. F.
Berliner was the show’s general chairman and stage
manager. Most of the humor was supplied by P. J.
Larmer who had done gag writing for NBC,
notably for the Fibber McGee and Red Skelton
programs. The work of coordinating the acts into
one show was done by A. E. Penelosa.
Outstanding individual acts included the “Girl
Skit”, starring a very fetching and voluptuous female
who slightly resembled J. J. Cook, a Northwestern
football star of last year. As directed by G. M.
Critchell, it was one of the evening’s highlights.
The music was written by R. H. Berkowitz. His
song, “On The Double”, especially appealed to
those present.
[180]
HOLMS
AS PROBABLY the most active organization
-Zjk. during our Midshipman days at Notre Dame,
the Drum and Bugle Corps was also probably the
most essential. Wherever we went together it was
they who set the pace for us. When the lone bugler
from their ranks awakened us—always at the cold-
est time of the morning—we grumbled and swore
revenge, but when he turned us in at taps we agreed
that perhaps he would make a good sailor some day.
Organized by Chief Buglemaster Tainter during
the first week of the indoctrination period, the
Drum and Bugle Corps started with eight mem-
bers. By the time we began Midshipman School
there were forty, and led, by Drum Major Midship-
man R. J. Duffie, they had ironed out the wrinkles
that necessarily punctuated their first offerings.
Practice was limited to fifteen and twenty min-
utes a day but the Corps still found time to. im-
provise new numbers and startling arrangements
of the old ones. Few of us will forget the first time
they sprung the three trumpet chorus of “Anchor’s
Aweigh” one night at evening chow formation.
And but for the fear of Saturday work detail many
of us would have danced, a la Harlem, when we
heard the brisk syncopation of “Bombs at Bay”.
[181]
APPRENTICE Seaman Sam Holmes men-
tioned to some of his friends last October that
• Lt. Palmer wanted to start a dance band at the
Notre Dame Midshipman school and Seaman
Holmes added that he would very much like to be
in on the deal. No one heard much about the
whole matter until one night a few weeks later.
Midshipmen returning from chow heard the un-
mistakable strain of the “Anvil Chorus” sounding
off from the 1st Deck classroom in Badin Hall.
That was the first concert by the Midshipman
Orchestra. It started out as a rehearsal but the
word spread even faster than scuttlebutt and soon
the chapel was filled with jumping, stomping,
Midshipmen. While Verdi took one of the worst
poundings of his career, the listeners cheered.
More rehearsals followed, always in that short hour
between 1800 and 1900. When the Lounge was
opened in Morrissey Hall they played weekly con-
certs on Friday nights. They drew such crowds
there that they wound up finally shooting the
works in Washington Hall. It was the first time
no one fell asleep in his seat. But then it was the
first time no one snapped a chalk line at them.
Composed of thirteen men, including Midship-
man Holmes, their leader, the band boasted of men
who had played in college and professional dance
bands throughout the country. Midshipmen John
Evans and Marvin Decker formed the top sax men
in the group with Midshipmen Harry Berchin and
P. C. Hume close behind. Berchin is the man you
saw so often leading the jam sessions with the best
-boogie woogie piano ever heard in these parts.
In the trumpet section the Midshipman school
produced J. T. Harper, Charles DuBois and
Howard Knox, the last named being the boy who
did the comedy acts in between bars. The two
trombonists whose solos made us forget the men we
used to hear back in the old days were Midshipmen
Stuart Park and Dave Fowler.
In the rhythm group we had first, Midshipman
C. E. Davis who played hob with the drums every
time we heard him. He doubled between the or-
chestra and marching us to class. He never missed
a beat in either place. Midshipman Sylvan
Dubinsky not only played the piano harmony parts
but added many solos in the weekly concerts. The
last polishing touch to make the band complete
was added by Midshipman Orville Gross and
his guitar.
These were the men, then, who made up the
Notre Dame Midshipman School orchestra. When
asked to play a number they didn’t have, they im-
provised; when asked to swing, they swung. They
were the most obliging band the world ever saw.
[182]


“The first thing you want to do is explore the splendid library they have here!”

FROM this book, you who are to follow this
first Midshipman class will learn many things
about our life at Notre Dame. You will learn
abopt instructors and classes, drills and exercises,
logs and watches. But the first question you will
ask of a Mate is, “What is there to do on Liberty?”
We answer by telling you some of the things that
we have done during the past four months.
Before we had lost the last vestiges of civilian life
in the strangeness of bell-bottom trousers and un-
dress jumpers, we were already accepting invita-
tions to Sunday dinner proffered by the residents
of South Bend, who knew that loneliness reduces a
man’s efficiency and that loneliness can best be
overcome by the knowledge that new friendships
are to be formed for the asking. It must be said of
these people that their names are too numerous to
mention but that their kindness will be remem-
bered by all of us. They dropped South Bend in
our laps and we proceeded to look around and
get acquainted.	-
Some of us looked first to the Service Men’s
Center. All of us knew where it was located—
across the street from the La Salle Hotel and the
South Shore station. What service it performs can
be measured best by the numbers who repeatedly
went back for more of the Indiana hospitality, by
the smiles on the faces of those who were spending
an afternoon or evening in the informality of its
atmosphere.
Under the direction of Mrs. William T. Riley
and Mrs. Arthur J. Haley, the sixty-odd girls who
have volunteered to take the place of a thousand
girl friends from Seattle to Savannah were organ-
ized into military regiments. Each regiment was
on duty at a particular time, so each mate was fore-
warned. If he intended to carry the torch for the
raven-haired lovely with the sunbeam smile, he had
to find out herjegiment and her hours “on duty”.
Since our only opportunity to get into town came
on the weekends, we won’t concern ourselves with
the daily function that the Service Center carries
out for the men in the army, the navy and the
marine corps. On Saturday and Sunday, the
Center became a Midshipmen’s Club. There was
the ever-present “juke-box” that required no
[183]
monetary encouragement and there were plenty
of good dancing partners; there was the ping-pong
table for the ambidextrous; writing tools and re-
minders for the forgetful; card tables for the bridge
or gin-rummy addicts; plenty of good books and
magazines to relieve the mind of Bowditch and
Knight; and soft, comfortable chairs for those who
cared only for ordinary relaxation. The moment
we stepped inside the door, we were put at ease.
It was surprising how many of us attempted to
make a date with the girl in the black dress or the
blond who danced so well.
And where did we go if we did date her? That
was easy. We just followed the crowd to any of
a dozen places. Those who were in the habit of
“doing” the hotel ballrooms in their own home
towns, liked the Hoffman for an evening of danc-
ing. The music was good, the dancing enjoyable,
and above all there were always twenty or more of
their shipmates on hand to help make the evening
enjoyable.
If one didn’t want to cut any “rugs” but wanted
some music to brighten up the evening’s conversa-
tion, he stopped in the Blarney Room at the Oliver
Hotel where the Irish motif and the brogue are all
the style. Then when he felt he’d like to spend a
few hours stag—with all due apologies to the girls—
he dropped into the Brandywine Room in the
La Salle. It was the type of place where men liked
to congregate on a cold Saturday afternoon to re-
hash the events of the past week, and to map out
a plan of action for the week-end.
' There were, however, many of us who were
strictly ballroom dancers, from Roseland to the
Trianon. For us, the Palais Royale was the spot.
There, dancing was the order of the evening, and
it was there that the music was played by the
bigger “name bands”.
Now you question, “That was all very nice if
one had a date, but where did a guy go to meet
someone?” The answer to that is “Anywhere”.
People are so darned friendly in South Bend that
'[ 184 ]
maBDaasHMOiKi

tfWaOMKSBK
one can’t go anywhere without striking up an
acquaintanceship.
Granted that no one liked to go to the spots in
town alone, there were still some “entrees” into the
social life of South Bend that haven’t yet been
mentioned. At least once every day, and some-
times more, among the announcements at chow
formation was a notice from Lt. Palmer’s office in-
viting sixty or a hundred men to a sorority dance
or party the following Saturday night. Few of us
went wrong on that kind of a deal. All we had to
do was to climb into our dress blues come Liberty
and show up at the appointed place. There were
also many cases where we only had to walk to
the front gate and be furnished our transporta-
tion. And if the little party didn’t pan out as well
as expected there was nothing lost. Lt. Palmer
would have a dozen more invitations for the
next week.
Every other week the South Bend Y.W.C.A.
sponsored a party and dance for the service men.
There was always, something different and always
plenty of good food. Many other church organi-
zations and private clubs made it common practice
to throw periodical parties for the Notre Dame
Midshipmen. And one didn’t have to worry about
his ability to have a good time. He found that
these dances were attended religiously not only by
the smooth “operators” who were born on the-
dance floor, but also by many who had never done
the Lindy Hop in their lives. He found the girls
excellent dancers and always more than willing to
polish up his stumbling attempts at the latest steps.
He never regretted finding out where the Indiana
Club was located. He saw a lot of it in his four
months. To begin with, there was the “Farewell
to Indoctrination Dance.” It seemed as if there
were more Midshipmen there than at the swearing
in ceremony the day before. Everyone went. Then
bi-weekly followed the Midshipman formals where
Midshipman Gish and his girl friend danced amid
all the atmosphere of a military ball. He met and
associated with men in other Battalions with whom
he would never have come in contact through the
ordinary daily routine. He learned that the fellows
in Midshipman School were the same ones with
whom he went to college —the same men with dif-
ferent names. But this time, however, he had only
one college song and only one set of school colors—
the ones raised every morning and lowered every
night. Yes, Saturday night was very well taken
care of.
On Sunday, too, before rushing into another
“terror” week of studies and exams, there was con-
siderable opportunity for recreation. And here, in
offering all the recreational facilities on the campus
for the midshipman’s leisure hours, is where Notre
Dame stepped into the picture. During the fall
[185]
season the Saturday afternoon football games were
just the right tonic to kick the kinks out of a work-
laden brain. Then when winter came there was
basketball. He participated both as spectator at
the football field and field house and as player in
the gym. Whether it was basketball, handball,
swimming, gymnastics or nothing more strenuous
than lounging under the sun lamps, Rockne Me-
morial facilities were always open to the Mid-
shipman.
Sunday afternoon, short though it was, always
was spent best at the Service Center Tea Dance
held in various spots around town. It invariably
shaped up as just the right prescription to round
out a week-end before heading home for homework.
There is one more phase of “escape” which
should not be overlooked. If you noticed a swarm
of Midshipmen going in the general direction of
the South Shore Station any Saturday afternoon,
you should not have been alarmed. It wasn’t a
mass exodus from the Navy but just the first relay
of the Chicago Commuters Club performing its
weekly ritual. Those who lived in or near Chicago
and those who preferred the brighter lights of the
Loop to those of South Bend were religious in
their devotion to the South Shore.
These, then, were some of the offerings that came
our way during Liberty and Shore leave hours.
We were.glad to get home now and then and it
was no reflection on the hospitality of South Bend
that many of us wanted to get back more often.
But while we were here, they did make us more
comfortable. They did all they could and that was
much more than they had to do. If you don’t
think we’re grateful and if you don’t think we en-
joyed it, just walk up to one of the Midshipmen
after he gets his commission and ask him. And
don’t forget to salute!
[186]

OCTOBER 5
1300 Apprentice Seamen began
their month Indoctrination period at
Notre Dame.
OCTOBER 6
The United States Naval Reserve
Training School, formerly used only
as an Indoctrination center was for-
mally commissioned a U.S.N.R.
Midshipman School. The Appren-
tice Seaman had their first meeting
with the Commanding Officer, Cap-
tain Henry P. Burnett, and the Ex-
ecutive Officer, Lieutenant Com-
mander Richard Wagner.
[187]

OCTOBER 27
Navy Day and the Regiment was reviewed by
Rear Admiral John J. Brady, of the Navy Chaplain
Corps, the Commanding Officer and the Faculty
of Officers. Later in the day Admiral Brady
addressed the regiment in the Notre Dame Field
House.
OCTOBER 30
Over 1100 Apprentice Seaman, the survivors of
the Indoctrination period, were sworn in as Mid-
shipmen by Captain Burnett.
NOVEMBER 2
The New Navy Classroom building was formally
opened and the first classes began.
NOVEMBER 12
Captain W. A. Maguire of the Navy Chaplain
Corps, distinguished for his heroic work at Pearl
Harbor on December 7th, 1941, addressed the
Regiment in the Field House.
JANUARY 27
Scores of Midshipmen attended the Graduation
Hop at the Palais Royale, final social function of
their stay at Notre Dame.
JANUARY 28
After 4 months training, 1100 Midshipmen re-
ceived their Commissions as Ensigns in the United
States Naval Reserve and became the first Midship-
man class to graduate from the Notre Dame school.
[ 188 ]
THERE are many vivid little memories of our
hectic and happy days at Notre Dame that
will live with us forever. -Thus, whenever we
chance to see a little black mutt, spangled with
dirty white markings, we will always think of
“Demerit,” the true Yankee Doodle Dandy of the
canine world.
Affectionate toward all, but cautiously true to
no one, he had a bold mien defiant of authority,
regardless of the number of stripes it carried on its
sleeve. “Demerit,” considering the miserable con-
notations of the word, was not the most flattering
name to be given to anyone, but in this case, with-
out a doubt, it was the most appropriate.
Always alert to muster signals, he cut classes but
was in our midst at almost every other time. He
attended lectures in the Fielcl House, wandered
over for his chow when he felt the urge, followed
the color guard out of step, had his picture taken at
the swearing-in exercises, slept in the aisle during
Happy Hour, (despite the vitality of the humor)
and could always be seen in a crowd of blue
uniforms.
To him every Midshipman was a hero. But
there were times when his Navy pride and patriotic
zeal blotted out whatever inclinations he may have
had to be courteous. His resentful barking and
growling made many a civilian retrace his course
and the khaki-clad Western Union boy can tell you
about his predilection for blue.
Then one day he was missing from the scene.
They said he was sick. “Who? ‘Demerit’ Sick!” It
was as incredible as a menu substitute for potatoes.
But it was true. “Demerit” was ill and they
carted him away to the hospital. The veterinarian
discovered that “Demerit’s” constitution needed
some—ah—mending, and agreed, after hours of
bargaining, to cure, him for twelve dollars.
No greater monument to his popularity can be
had than the spirit of the Midshipmen in donating
toward the fee. In no time at all he was back on
the quadrangle wrestling and frisking with any
middy who could spare a few minutes.
During his absence there were countless substi-
tutes, anxious to take over in the hearts of the
Midshipmen, and there was one in particular, dis-
tinguished by his consistently outrageous behaviour
. who was called “Two-point-four.” But there
wasn’t a Middie on the station who wouldn’t say,
“Yeh, he’s good. But he ain’t ‘Demerit’.”
[ 190 ]
DESPITE the burdening weight of his academic
program; aching, tired muscles; tremendous
homework assignments due on the morrow and
apprehensions about imminent watch duties, the
Midshipman always reserved some time for the
daily ritual of writing letters home.
He knew well that continued correspondence re-
quired mutual cooperation and, unless he had built
a permanent nest in the “tree”, he enjoyed these
few minutes of relaxation from his rigid routine.
Mail delivery was an anxiously anticipated morn-
ing feature and if that Mate of the Deck passed
without leaving anything, the Middie’s spirits
dropped like a wallflower’s heart at a Junior Prom.
Nostalgia crept around villainously and when-
ever the pace slackened enough, providing time to
reminisce, it struck its deadening claw. Nothing
transformed gloom into gayety quicker than a
heartening word from home. . . .
[191]
SOMEHOW we never could keep in step with the
fellow in front of us, or the platoon leader at our
side with his “hup, two, three, four, hup—hup...........”
Maybe it was because the man behind us was always
stepping on the heels of our newly polished shoes or
maybe it was because we were accustomed to asserting
our individuality.
Then, one day, we got a drummer to assure a more
even cadence. It was a swell idea—except each suc-
cessive drummer had his own notions about the correct
beat and several of them thought they were Gene
Krupas at the skins and pounded out cannabalistic
tempos.
Somehow we’d manage to hold an even pace for a few
minutes but then we’d see the platoon ahead keeping a
different one and the CPO would bark, “Get in step
with the platoon ahead!” We hadn’t varied one bit,
but there we were, out of step again.
Someday someone will take time out to analyze this
thing and ascertain how 25 men can get out of step as a
unit, and proffer a remedy. But until then, we’ll just
have to keep changin’ step or get 'stepped on . . .
[192]
RECORDS prove that a Naval Officer
is the most marrying and “marria-
ble” officer of all the services. It may be
the uniform or it may be some incompre-
hensible superiority of personality. But
then again it may be because he is so com-
pletely domesticated and so very eligible
for family life.
Trained intensively from the beginning
of his Naval career, he stands head and
shoulders above the field even when the
most frivolous of women is making the de-
cision. But in most cases, he is so besieged
by clamoring females that he is free to sat-
isfy all his whims in making a selection.
When they learn about the things Mid-
shipmen are taught, they affect the expres-
sion of the beautiful maiden in magazine
advertisements, yearning for a home, and
family. And then they chatter about the
frailty of femininity and how frightfully
unprotected women are against the cruel-
ties of civilization.
We made our beds, swept and swabbed
the decks, cleaned the windows, polished
the brightwork, washed bulkheads, re-
paired electric lights and sewed buttons on
mangled trousers. And then, when the
laundry began to use fulminate of mercury
as a cleaner, we washed socks and skivvies
and darned during study hours. .
But the midshipmen became quite proud
of their domestic achievements. It was
nothing unusual for one to pause during
the morning room cleanup and confide to
his roommate:
“You know, when I’m married I’m
going to show my wife a thing or two
about making beds.”
And he probably will, too!
It was a versatility reminiscent of the
Rennaissance. But we shall never deprive
the ladies of the pleasure they obtain from
fastening stiffened collars to unconquera-
ble buttons . . . and that’s for sure.
[193]
WHILE sitting in “Demerit’s” office under the
bench in Morrissey Hall one day, we decided
that it might not be a bad idea to give those who
are to follow us some idea of what they .can expect
at Notre Dame. After consulting some of the offi-
.cers, the following report was submitted and ap-
proved. To the Apprentice Seaman of the 2nd
Midshipman class, we offer it as conclusive evi-
dence that the V-7 course is impossible. We know
we couldn’t get through it and we are sure that
you won’t be able to do it either.	.
The first lesson you will learn when you get off
the train in South Bend, trying to look as military
as you can in your gray tweeds, is that it is easy
enough to get into the Navy. The Navy trucks '
will pick up you and your baggage at the depot
and will take you out to the station. If you happen
to arrive there safely, the fight is half over. We
should remind you that the ship’s company who
drive the trucks have been recruited from the Wild
West shows and Coney Island roller coasters
throughout the country, but don’t let that bother
you. They haven’t got driver’s licenses so at least
the cops can’t stop them.	.
The first Government Issue that you receive will
be your bedding and there are a few things you
ought to know about the blankets in the United
States Navy. If you ever get the temptation to
break regulation number 657 and lounge on your
bunk, be sure you put newspapers, your towel or
the letters from the girl friend betwixt you and
those blankets. They are built to shed lint at the
slightest provocation, and no matter what you tell
the officer who notices it, there is still the tell-tale
[194]
evidence on your rear flank. And don’t worry
about the electricity that comes charging through
you in the mornings when you make your bunk.
It’s just another part of the toughening-up pro-
gram. But if your father was ever scared by an
electric chair, you might as well quit now.
Soon after arriving you’ll be assigned to your
room. If you are lucky enough to arrive during
the daytime it won’t be so bad, but if you come in
at night it may be days before you can find your
way to the quarters. If you do get lost and have
to sleep on the golf course all night, don’t worry
about it. “Demerit” and his cask of sulfanilimide
will find you in the morning.
The first thing that will impress you will be the
Mess Hall. They were very nice to us while we
were at Notre Dame. They gave us the same menu
every morning so we wouldn’t have to play guess-
ing games while marching to chow. But we played
guessing games after we were through. You’ll meet
up with the “mystery balls” and if you are able to
guess what the ingredients are, you will receive your
commission immediately plus the Navy Cross for
bravery. After the first time, however, you’ll agree
with us that it isn’t worth it.
Before long you will know what it means to
muster “on-the-double”. In running to morning
chow formation, you will learn to be careful. Dur-
ing our first few weeks we lost quite a few men who,
because of the darkness at that time of day, ran
into trees thinking they were officers. . As your eyes
grow accustomed to the 0630 darkness, you will be
better able to distinguish officers from the trees.-
[195]
One of the first trips you will make as an Appren-
tice Seaman will be to the Sick Bay for your shots.
And here we would like to ease your minds. We
know that you will have read many fearful stories
of the gruesome happenings that go on inside the
Sick Bay door but it isn’t nearly as bad as some
writers have portrayed it. Most of it is nothing
more than pure, untouched Scuttlebutt. And to
prove that he means you no harm, the Pharmacist
Mate gives you back your arm when you leave.
You will learn many interesting things in your
classes but much of your education will come out-
side of class. Take for instance Athletics and Ex-
ecutive Drill (Navy for shin splints). Everything
is on a competitive basis. You will run around the
two-hundred acre drill field and those who don’t
collapse after 15 laps will have to carry the others
back. That’s to teach them it doesn’t pay to be a
show-off in the Navy. The Chief who directs your
setting up exercises will situate himself on a plat-
form high above you. You may think he’s doing
all the knee-bends with you but don’t let him kid
you. He just sits up there and does it all with
mirrors. If you get tired and want to rest for a
while, that’s all right, too. The Navy doesn’t want
your shipmates to get ahead of you so you’ll catch
up later on when you run an extra fifty laps
around the field.
You’ll probably wonder and worry quite a bit
about how your uniforms will fit but you may as
well forget it. The Storekeepers at Notre Dame
will do all the worrying for you. They are a well
trained group who can look at the size of your head
and fit you with hats, shirts, jumpers, pants, pea
coats and socks. You won’t believe it until you see
it. And while you’re picking up your clothing you
will become acquainted with the two eternal
axioms of the supply corps. “If it’s too big—shrink
it”. “If it’s too small—stretch it”. But what do
you care. After you get your Navy haircut, your
mother wouldn’t recognize you anyway.
You won’t be an Apprentice Seaman for twenty-
• four hours before you discover of what the Watch
Bill consists. It will take some time to master its
more detailed refinements but when the Security
Watch awakens you at midnight, when you have
patrolled on a Roving Watch “beat” for two hours,
and when you have finally been secured from your
nightstick and flashlight, then you will know more
[196]
about it. And you will eventually look forward
with a sort of fiendish expectation to the night when
you can be the one who awakens everyone else.
Uppermost in many minds will be the question
of pay. You will find that the Navy can think of
more ways to spend your money than a Washing-
ton congressman. You will draw the cash from
only one window and then pay it out again through
three or four windows, which will be some comfort.
You will be very lucky, though, that you will only
get paid twice a month. Otherwise you couldn’t
afford it.
So you see, it’s impossible to pass this course.
Now that you are here however there is nothing
you can do about it. But from now until the day
you walk up and receive your commission from
your Commanding Officer, as we did, you’ll still
be saying, as we did, that it’s impossible to pass
this course.
To prove the statement, we offer the following
“gems”, which were carefully ,gleaned from our
examinations by chuckling officers and read back
to us with the admonition, “you’ll never pass the
course this way.”
There was the time the Midshipman answered,
“St. Elmo’s fire, sir, is an electrical phenomena
that occurs in the masts of ships. It is audible
but does not make any noise”
Probably thinking of the Gremlins.
* * *
Instructor: What would you do if forced to lower
the national colors in surrender.
Midshipman: I would slap the -Ensign, sir.
* * *
Extract from Seamanship P-22
Q. What is the name of the shellfish that some-
times attaches itself to the bottom of a vessel?
A. A Pantaloon.
Which reminds us, we saw the U.S.S. Erie being
fitted for a zoot suit last month.
* * *
It couldn’t be gouging for the answers all came
from different sections.
“The cause of vertical parallax is the Jesus
factor.”
“Trunnion tilt is compensated by the Jesus
factor.”
“The dip strip corrects for the Jesus factor.”
“Gun train order includes the Jesus factor, which
automatically sends correct deflection to the gun.”
[197]
Right out of the book:
The gun is fired at the director and when the
director is put out of commission, the gun is fired
at the gun..
One of those murder-suicide cases, Mr. Tracy. .
* * *
Some reasons why instructors yearn for the sea.
Boat tailing is when the skirt fringes out at the
ends.
The amount of erosion in a gun is measured by
a star gazer.
When he has inspected the bore, the rammer-
ma i says, “Clean as a whistle, sir”.
Black powder is used during war time as a
propellant for destroyers.
One of the military uses of TNT is in spearheads.
* * *
This one was born during an Ordnance quiz:
The device used to prevent the slam of the gun
barrel a'gainst the slide when returning to the in-
battery position during counter-recoil is called the
jackpot.
Put a nickel in the Director, Lieutenant.
* * *
Another from Seamanship P- 22
Sideboys are things that are thrown over the side
when an admiral comes aboard.
They were expendable.
* * *
Famous last words:
“But I was on the tree last week too.”
“I’m sorry, sir, but the train was late.”
“I don’t need a haircut, there won’t be any in-
spection this week”.
“These shots don’t effect me.”
“Meet me at Sweeney’s, Joe.”
* * *
Prize for quick thinking goes to the Seaman who
collapsed after an over enthusiastic Pharmacist
Mate had injected him for Typhoid Fever. As a
surprised doctor revived him, he exclaimed, “It
didn’t hurt when you jammed the needle into my
arm but when you got through to my ribs and
started to tickle my heart, I just couldn’t stand it”.
* * *
We heard this one at chow one night. w
“My new uniform fits like a glove.”
“Good tailoring job, huh?”
“Yeah, it covers my hands.”
orwi&
The Notre Dame Stadium has seen some phe-
nomenal sights in its day but none stranger than
the spectacle of 1300 young men making the transi-
tion from civilian to naval clothing.
It was a heterogeneous tribe that wended its way
to this'Hoosier reservation when the first Midship-
men class was mustered last October ... a cross-
section of typical American youth, characteristi-
cally clothing conscious, prepared to cover their
native peculiarities with form-fitting sailor suits.
But they discovered in short time that this was
not Brooks Brothers and if you lacked the proper
anatomical bulges your suit fitted like a potato bag
and there wasn’t one thing you could do about it
but eat more and hope that the bulgeless spots
would filf out. If it was too tight, of course, the
remedy was to eat less and exercise.
Former football tackles of significant tonnage
poured their bulk into middies sizes too small;
Southwestern beanpoles, hanging their trousers as
low on skinny waists as modesty would permit, saw
the bell bottoms dangling ludicrously midway be-
low their knees. The only consolation for them was
that the socks they wore were not white.
Repeated treks to the stadium were successful in
rectifying some of the most horrible mistakes, but
in the end, the inability of GI uniforms to hide zoot
suit figures was all too evident.
It -reached its pinnacle when a consensus of
YWCA females revealed, with much giggling, that
our dress was “oh, so funny.”
The crews on duty at the supply depots were as
accommodating as crews can be with a surplus of
44’s and a shortage of 36’s and too few 6J^’s and
too many 7^’s and when the new sailors came up
to the counter they would inquire solitously, “And
what size do you want, Mac, too big or too small?”
“Six and seven eights, please, sir,” we would
reply with tyro timidity.
But when the hat was dropped on our head it
veiled our ears and as we made a pretense of pro-
testation we were assured that “it will shrink if you
wash it long and hard enough.”.

[198]

The Chiefs
Ship's Company
[199]
A CLASS BOOK such as The Capstan is the
product of many minds, many imaginations
.... and a lot of hard work.
This memento of midshipman days would not
have been possible had it not been for the untiring*
efforts of a great number of persons. Therefore, it
is only fitting that we express our appreciation for
work well done.
We wish to thank the following celebrated artists
and cartoonists for their sparkling contributions:
Arthur Szyk, Alban B. Butler, Jr., Ralph Lee, Walt
Disney, Charles H. Kuhn, Otto Soglow, S. J. Woolf,
Rube Goldberg and Bruce Russell.
We thank Mr. Stanley Sascha Sessler, head of
the Notre Dame University Art Department, who
drew the official seal of the Midshipman School.
Mr. Sessler, a talented artist, displayed great in-
genuity in constructing a truly nautical and ap-
propriate seal.
And orchids to Lt. Haralson F. Smith and Lt.
(j.g.) Kenneth G. Pearce, the Capstan advisors, for
their complete co-operation and wise counsel.
We particularly wish to thank the magazines
Esquire and New Yorker and their cartoonists for
allowing us the use of many of their drawings..
Ray Moran, of the Peerless Press, who had the
difficult task of printing the Capstan, is another on
whose brow laurels should be placed.
We also wish to thank McDonald’s Studio of
South Bend for the picture from which artist S. J.
Woolf drew the sketch of Captain Burnett. Many
other fine pictures which appear in this book were
loaned by the publicity office of Notre Dame
University.
And lastly, we wish to thank all those midship-
man members of the Capstan editorial and business
staffs, artists, writers, photographers and advertis-
ing solicitors, who gave generously of their valuable
time and risked an entire forest of “trees” to make
t his book possible.
[ 200 ]
[201]
INDEX
ADVERTISERS
k Of shanks
A brief word of thanks to our advertisers
. . . with whose support this book was
published . . . with whose support this
war will be won.
Today—our advertisers are working for
Uncle Sam ...
Tomorrow—they will be working for
you again. Give them your whole-
hearted support now and in the years to
come . . .
Adler, Max .	 Uniforms
American Foundry Equipment Co.	.	Foundry Equipment
Bantam Bearings Corpn........................Bearings
Bendix Corporation ....	Aviation, automobile,
marine accessories
Browning, King...............................Uniforms
Denis Studio .............................Photographs
Finchley’s.................................  Uniforms
Gilbert’s..................................  Uniforms
Mishawaka Rubber and
Woolen Co...................BALL-BAND Products
Northern Indiana Transit Co. .	.	. Transportation
Price, Ed. V...........................  .	Uniforms
Sibley Machine and Foundry Corp. . - Machine Tools
Simpson, J. B.....................  .	.	. Uniforms
Skinner, M. B., Co........................... . Tools
Sollitt Construction Co..........Contractors
South Bend Hotel Assn..................Accommodations
South Bend Lathe Co...................Precision	Lathes
South Bend Lumber Co.........................Millwork
South Bend Toy Co. . . ' . . . ' . .	Wooden Toys
South Bend Wood Parts, Inc..............Wood Parts
South Shore Lines......................Transportation
Studebaker Corpn. . . Aircraft engines, automobiles
Swift Ice Cream Co...............	.	. . Ice Cream
Wilson Bros..................... Men’s Wear
[ 203 ]
Appointed by United States Navy Department
OFFICIAL DISTRIBUTORS OF
We carry complete stocks, at all times, of the new regula-
tion uniforms, furnishings, caps, braid, insignia and devices.
. We have your size and will ship your future requirements
anywhere in the United States.
PRICES ESTABLISHED BY NAVY DEPARTMENT
Commissioned Officers Service. Blue $40
Commissioned Officers Overcoat $50 • Cap Complete with 3 Covers $13.25
Commissioned Officers and Warrant Officers Raincoat-Overcoat
{with removable wool lining $37.50}
No Charge for Minor Alterations
Other Alteration Charges as approved by Navy Department
M‘X ADLER
"ON THE CORNER"	Michigan at Washington

Tire proudest assignment in.
onr 9O-year Kistory
Studebaker=FlyingFortress
At flying fields throughout the world, air-
men speak with unqualified admiration of
the Flying Fortress, designed by Boeing
and powered with mighty Cyclone engines.
Studebaker, America’s oldest manufacturer
of highway transportation, welcomes the
opportunity to work for victory with Wright,
America’s oldest builder of airplane en-
gines. The same skill, the same Studebaker
plus, that have gone into every Studebaker
passenger car and truck, are today going
into all implements of Avar produced by Stude-
baker. We’re proud of our assignments in
the arming of our Nation and its Allies.
STUDEBAKER’S 9OTH ANNIVERSARY
ACCURACY AND
POWER FOR MODERN
DRILLING JOBS
Today's tough drill-
ing on war work
doesn't bother users
of the Sibley 25"
Geared Drill. The
tremendous power
and extreme accu-
racy built into this
machine make it
well suited for
armor plate and
various alloy steels.
Will maintain accu-
rately feeds and
speeds as selected
under the most ex-
acting conditions.
Straight production
work is held to the
closest tolerances,
and the Sibley
Drill's ease of con-
trol makes it adapt-
able to frequent
changeover on
small quantities.
HERE’S WHY ACCURACY AND POWER
ARE ASSURED IN
★	Geared drive with
alloy steel, heat-
treated gears in oil
bath. Horizontal
- shafts mounted on
anti-friction bear-
ings.
★	Controls centered
in front. Instant
change of feeds
and speeds.
THE SIBLEY DRILL
★ 12 spindle speeds
from 75 to 1500
RPM. 9 feeds from
.005 to .045 .
Tapping by elec-
trical reversing
switches. .
10 splined spindle
operated by power
and hand feed.
IBIHC IB FOUNDRY CORP. ’
A ST T UTT S T., SO U TH B E N D , I N D 1 A N A J
BROWNING & KING
FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK
WAL OFFICERS’
UNIFORMS
MADE TO YOUR MEASURE
For 120 years, Browning King
has adherred to unusually high
standards of quality—coupled
with sensible, down - to - earth
prices. Now, we are happy to
offer this same rare combina-
tion to Naval Officers.
BROWNING & KING
FIFTH AVENUE NEW YORK
V LS I T OUR BRANCH
OFFICERS’ APPA
Call Us —
We'll Deliver.
In South Bend —
Any Taxi Free
to Gilbert's.
There is a difference
in uniforms!
OFFICERS of the Navy insist, and rightly so,
upon fine uniforms. Not only do they want
style, fit and serviceability, but individuality as
well. Many officers already know that these
qualities are found in the uniforms
.	tailored for the Modern Gilbert’s
By
HICKEY-FREEMAN
*60
upwards
You see the difference, you feel the difference
the moment you try on a uniform at the Modern
Gilbert’s.
APPOINTED BY U. S. NAVY—UNIFORMS $40.00
THE MODERN
GILBERTS
813-817 S. Michigan St.
South ^end^ J^arg.e£t Store Jor Alen!	---~~

|R
E
L STORE — DRAKE HO
T E L
CHICAGO
Dobbs Officers’Caps
— the finest!
■pRODUCED by famous Dobbs craftsmen,
these are the finest offcers’ caps made. You
can have complete confidence in your Dobbs.
Officially correct in style—with an extra measure
, of smartness and distinction—
exclusively — the Modern Gilbertos
By DOBBS
Call Us
We'll Deliver.
$l$50
including 3 covers .
In South Bend —
They come by their dashing good looks natu-
rally—because of the wide experience of Dobbs
experts in headwear craftsmanship.
Any Taxi Free
to Gilbert's,
OPEN EVERY EVENING UNTIL 9:00
TRE MODERN
GILBERT'S
813-817 S. Michigan St.
South (Bend’s J^arg,e£t Store Jor
Aten!
036BSi
BOSKi

VISIT OUR BRAN
CH OFFICERS’ A P P A :R
EL STORE — DRAKE HOTEL
CHICAGO
There is a difference
in uniforms!
Call Us —
We'll Deliver.
In South Bend —
Any Taxi Free
to Gilbert's.
/“OFFICERS of the Navy insist, and rightly so,
upon fine uniforms. Not only do they want
style, fit and serviceability, but individuality as
well. Many officers already know that these
qualities are found in the uniforms
tailored for the Modern Gilbert’s
By
HIGKEY-FREEMAN
*60
upwards
You see the difference, you feel the difference
the moment you try on a uniform at the Modern
Gilbert’s.
Dobbs Officers’ Caps
— the finest!
"PRODUCED by famous Dobbs craftsmen,
these are the finest offcers’ caps made. You
can have complete confidence in your Dobbs.
Officially correct in style—with an extra measure
of smartness and distinction—
exclusively — the Modern Gilberts
By DOBBS
$JO5°
including 3 covers .
They come by their dashing good looks natu-
rally—because of the wide experience of Dobbs
experts in headwear craftsmanship.
Call Us —
We'll Deliver.
In South Bend —
Any Taxi Free
to Gilbert's.
APPOINTED BY U. S. NAVY—UNIFORMS $40.00
TRE MODERN
GILBERT'S
Otte, TjzjBCd
OPEN EVERY EVENING UNTIL 9:00
TRE MODERN
GILBERT'S
Afart, Ayuft/ue/z,
813-817 S. Michigan St.
<Soutk JSend^ J^arg,e$t Store
3or Alen!
813-817 S. Michigan St.
South d3end’& J^arge^t Store Jor .Alen!
pMataMew      iaxsseam—-------------------------------------------------------irr^imrmnr— ——-----------—
NAVAL UNIFORMS of Character
Individually Hand
to Individual Measures
Cut and Tailored
by J. B. Simpson, Inc.
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient ser-
vice that literally reaches from shore to shore .
an advantage of great value to men on the move.
For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may
be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or
New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville
or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval
shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you
find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, cour-
teous, efficient personnel to serve you.
NAVAL
OFFICER’S
BLUE
SERVICE
UNIFORM
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval
officers the standard of quality, design and tailor-
ing that will give complete satisfaction. All Simp-
son uniforms are skillfully designed for best ap-
pearance and’durability and are sturdily construct-
ed for more days of wear.
NAVAL
OFFICER’S
WHITE
SERVICE
UNIFORM
NAVAL
AVIATION
OFFICER’S
UNIFORM
BODKIN BUTTONS with the attached slide that
can’t be lost and which are so easy to remove are
a feature of Simpson garments. This permits easy
removal when garments are to be cleaned and
pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
SECRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND:
Many officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty
handy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) :
: is easily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
YOUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram
label bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse,
every Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date
and number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, quick and positive
identification can always be made.
POCKET OPENING IN FACING. OF COAT FOR QUICK
REMOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in
, just a minute’s time through the little pocket opening in
the facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is
the case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the
MRILCOUPONTODN-
CHOICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quarter
top or half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed
within regulations, are followed on all personal details.
MANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED
IN J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIP-
PER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL
TROUSERS: We have set aside a large
supply of metal grippers and Talon zip-
per fasteners to use on military uniforms.
(At present, it ■ seems we will be re-
stricted in our use of these items for
civilian purposes.)
SIM PSON, Inc
NATAL TAILORS
NAVAL
AVIATION
OFFICER’S
. WINTER
„ WORKING
fl OVERCOAT
NAVAL
OFFICER’S ,
OVERCOAT
(Two-piece
half belt
in back) .
IN SOUTH
BEND-205 NORTH MAIN STREET
or Zero Deck C anteen on the Campus
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., WAU KEGAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK,
BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS CI TY> CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT.
WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HOUS TON> CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
EBBB
FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED |
naval uniform ctinLoo |
with price list and actual samples of .
uniform materials. .
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 205 N. Main St., South Bend, Ind. .
Gentlemen: '	|
Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of I
Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of ma- I
tcrials.	'
Name
Address
City
State

NAVAL UNIF
NAVAL
OFFICER’S
BLUE
SERVICE
UNIFORM
Individually Hand
to Individual Measures
J. B. Simpson offers a complete and efficient ser-
vice that literally reaches from shore to shore . . .
an advantage of great value to men on the move.
For instance, an order placed at Notre Dame may
be delivered and fitted at Corpus Christi ... or
New York ... or St. Louis ... or Jacksonville
. . . or at any one of a score of Simpson Naval
shops in all parts of the country. Wherever you .
find a Simpson Naval Shop you find trained, cour-
teous, efficient personnel to serve you. •	.
NAVAL
OFFICER’S
KHAKI
WORKING
UNIFORM
NAVAL
OFFICER’S
WHITE
SERVICE
UNIFORM
NAVAL
AVIATION
OFFICER’S
UNIFORM
The long experience of J. B. Simpson assures naval
officers the standard of quality, design and tailor-
ing that will give complete satisfaction. All Simp-
son uniforms are skillfully designed for best ap-
pearance anddurability and are sturdily construct-
ed for more days of wear.
J. B. SIM
NAVAL
NAVAL
AVIATION
OFFICER’S
. WINTER
WORKING
M OVERCOAT
NAVAL
OFFICER’S ,
OVERCOAT 3
(Two-piece i
half belt
in back) .
IN SOUTH BEND-205
or Zero Deck C
CHICAGO LOOP, CHICAGO W. S., CHICAGO N. S., WAU
BOSTON, PITTSBURGH, DETROIT, ST. LOUIS, KANSAS CI
WAYNE, SAN FRANCISCO, SAN DIEGO, MEMPHIS, HOUS
EBBS
O R M S of Character
Cut and Tailored ,
by J. B. Simpson, Inc.
MANY DISTINCTIVE FEATURES OFFERED
IN J. B. SIMPSON NAVAL UNIFORMS
. YOUR NAME IN YOUR GARMENT: in addition to a smart monogram
' label bearing your initials on the inside pocket of your jacket or blouse,
every Simpson garment contains a linen label with your name and date
. and number of order. Printed in fade-proof ink, quick and positive
j identification can always be made.
BODKIN BUTTONS with the attached slide that
lit can’t be lost and which are so easy to remove are
wJFl a ^ca^ure Simpson garments. This permits easy
removal when garments are to be cleaned and
pressed and eliminates loss of buttons.
SECRET MONEY POCKET IN TROUSER WAISTBAND:
Many officers find this neat and convenient pocket is mighty
handy. It is right on the waistband of the trouser (inside) :
is easily accessible and does not interfere with your comfort.
TALON SLIDE CLOSURE AND GRIP-
PER FASTENER STANDARD ON ALL
TROUSERS: We have set aside a large
supply of metal grippers and Talon zip-
per fasteners to use on military uniforms.
(At present, it • seems we will be re-
stricted in our use of these items for
civilian purposes.)
POCKET OPENING IN FACING. OF COAT FOR QUICK
REMOVAL OF BUTTONS: Buttons are easily removed in
just a minute’s time through the little pocket opening in
the facing. This opening will not gap or fold over, as is
the case with the old-fashioned method of leaving the
facing open.	"
, CHOICE OF POCKETS; You may have regular side pockets or quarter	.
j top or half top pockets in trousers. Individual preferences, as allowed
i within regulations, are followed on all personal details.	.
PSON, Inc.
TAILORS
NORTH MAIN STREET
anteen on the Campus
KEGAN, PHILADELPHIA, NEW HAVEN, NEWARK, NEW YORK,
TY, CLEVELAND, TOLEDO, INDIANAPOLIS, YOUNGSTOWN, FT.
TON, CORPUS CHRISTI, PENSACOLA, JACKSONVILLE, SO. BEND.
MAIL COUPON TODAY
FOR FREE ILLUSTRATED |
NAVAL UNIFORM CATAUNr
with price list and actual samples of .
uniform materials. .
J. B. SIMPSON, INC., 205 N. Main St., South Bend, Ind.
Gentlemen
Please send me your Free Illustrated Catalog of
Naval Uniforms with price list and samples of ma-
terials.
Name
Address
City
State
AAA PRIORITY ON Victory
Toy manufacturing is our business in normal times. But to-
day we are glad to be working for Uncle Sam . . . pro-
ducing war items that he needs in Africa, Australia, and
Alaska ... devoting our time and effort to an AAA Priority
on Victory.
And when priorities become mere memories, we will be
making toys again . . . perhaps for your children.
SOUTH BEND TOY MANUFACTURING COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
Congratulations from
The BALL-BAND Plant, Mishawaka, Indiana
Jor the <Seruice£
Diving Suits, Life Saving Suits, Fire Suits • Wool
Socks, Felt Insoles, Knit Bootees • Pilot Boots, Shoe
Pacs, Mukluks • Arctics, Rubbers, Boots • Rain-
coats, Rainhats, Coated Fabrics • O. D. Suiting
and Overcoating • Aviation Fuel Cells •
Fuel Storage Cells •
BALL-BAND
Gaiters, Rubbers, Arctics, Boots
Hunting and Fishing Footwear
Leather Work Shoes
Tennis Shoes and Play Shoes
' Knitted and Felt Footwear
Known by the RED BALL Trade-Mark

A LATHE
HOW TO RUN
yd
?d
War
-°ft^plan
So„,j n a“"«' Dh ' 'oo/rn ,,C m,u’
 
n	a
Part	do.
In

The Man Behind
the Man Behind the Gun!
English, Spanish, Portuguese and French
A complete book on the operation and
care or metal working lathes. Contains
128 pages, in. x 8 in.—360 illus-
trations. Used by machinists, lathe op-
: erators, apprentices, engineering and
vocational students. Sent to any address,
■ postpaid, upon receipt of 25 cents of
your country in postage stamps. State
language desired.
IN TIME OF WAR, the man
behind the machine is just as
important as the man behind the
gun. Back of the production lines
of every war industry is their first
line of defense—the toolroom.
Here, where precision is of utmost
importance—where tolerances are
reckoned in split-thousandths—you
will find South Bend Lathes.
Modern in design, built with ex-
treme precision, South Bend Lathes
are fast and accurate on the most
exacting classes of toolroom work.
Their wide range of spindle speeds
permits machining with maximum
cutting tool efficiency. Their versa-
tility facilitates quick change-over
through a minimum of setup time.
South Bend Lathes are made in
five sizes: 9" to 16" swing, in tool-
room and manufacturing types. Also,
turret lathes for multiple-tool pro-
duction operations. Write for a copy
of our catalog and the name of the
nearest dealer.
s cy THr _ BEN
SOUTH BEND
B UIL DER S
INDIANA
FOR 3 6
SKINNER-SEAL BOMB GRATER CLAMPS are serving a useful purpose in pre-
paring municipalities for the emergency of air raid damage to gas and water mains.
In the event of air raids, the speedy restoration of gas and water service is imperative,
and these clamps make it possible to repair quickly mains where a gap has been
blown out by the explosion.	.	'
M. B. SKINNER COMPANY • SOUTH BEND, INDIANA
' ’ For a Complete Line of
BUILDING MATERIALS
See the
SOUTH BEND LUMBER CO.
"Where the greatest number buy their lumber"
Main at Indiana '	South Bend, Indiana

OFFICERS' UNIFORMS
Naval officers uniforms by Finchley may be worn with pride and confidence.
They are regulation to the core and their fine fabrics, precise fitting qualities
and engaging appearance effectively complement the highest traditions of
the naval service. Prices are very modest and the service rendered is in
keeping with the highest Finchley standards. Inquiries welcome. Please call.
NAVAL UNIFORMS • TOPCOATS
$2Q50
AND MORE
WHITES • KHAKIS • OVERCOATS . CAPS . SHOES . INSIGNIAS
SHIRTS • TIES • HOSIERY • JEWELRY • SLACKS . REEFERS • ARMY BLOUSES .
19 East Jackson Boulevard, Chicago •	564 Fifth Avenue, New York
. 1	Robert Driscoll Hotel, Corpus Christi, Texas
A Safe InvestmentJor a Safe America—Buy War Savings Bonds
y[e $ollg Jjttle bailor
and J4i& Entire Organization
THANK OFFICERS and MIDSHIPMEN
of
THE UNITED STATES NAVAL RESERVE
MIDSHIPMEN’S SCHOOL
of the
UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME
for your patronage and cooperation.
★	★ ★ ★ ★
We also wish to offer our
congratulations and best wishes
for your future success.
★	★ ★ ★ ★
When this nation and the world are again blessed
with peace, and we are all happily at work in our
legitimate occupations, remember—that Ed. V.
Price & Co. are nationally known as .
"The largest tailors in the world
of GOOD made-to-order clothes.”
Your measurements are on file and reorders of
uniforms will be shipped to any part of the world!
327 West Van Buren Street, Chicago
117 So. La Salle Avenue, South Bend, Ind.
DEALERS EVERYWHERE
GIANT DIESELS—16" x 20" bore and stroke
marine engines—supply the motive power for
our growing wartime merchant marine—and
constant, reliable service is a must. In the
tappet roller assemblies of these huge giants
of power, built by Enterprise Engine &
Foundry Co., hundreds of precision Bantam
needle rollers serve to reduce friction and wear
—another example of Bantam’s service in sup-
plying bearings for specialized applications.
HUNDREDS OF ANTIFRICTION BEARINGS—from tiny, jewel-like parts for delicate instruments to
bearings of huge dimensions which support revolving gun turrets weighing many tons—are
needed to complete a modern ship of our growing battle fleet. Speeding production of ,the
country’s wartime shipping program is Bantam’s delivery of many of these bearings months
ahead, of schedule. For Bantam is tooled-up to meet the new and unusual in bearing design.
Whether you need a special bearing or one of many standard types, TURN TO BANTAM.
ULTRA-PRECISION IN LARGE BEARINGS is assured by special machining and grinding methods
that result in the extreme accuracy necessary to long, uninterrupted service life. Hardening
techniques developed by Bantam engineers produce unusual toughness and strength and
contribute to successful bearing performance.
PROUDLY WE FLY OUR ARMY-NAVY "E" with its Two Stars — awarded
for recognition of the outstanding production record made possible by
the cooperation of every man and woman in the Bantam organization.
We’re proud too, that Bantam Bearings are in there fighting on nearly
every type of ship in the U. S. Navy.
LAUNCHING OF A NEW UNDERSEA CRAFT adds
another fighting unit to the Nation’s expand-
ing fleet. Many of America’s submarines
are equipped w’ith special bearings built by
Bantam for this exacting service—bearings
of K-Monel metal, for example, that resist the
corrosive action of salt air and water — a
typical instance of Bantam’s skill in the de-
sign and manufacture of anti-friction bear-
ings for special tasks.
ANTAM
EARINGS
EVERY MAJOR TYPE OF ANTI-FRICTION BEARING
is included inBantam’s line—straight roller,
tapered roller, needle and ball. For any
bearing need TURN TO BANTAM.
STRAIGHT ROLLER • TAPEREP ROLLER • NEEDLE • BALL
BANTAM BEARINGS CORPORATION • SOUTH BEND • INDIANA

is doubly proud of you
men who have won your commis-
sions as officers in the United States
Navy here at Notre Dame. Our highest
esteem and best wishes go with you.
C. W. Veach,
131 N. Michigan St.
I
In upholding the Proud and Gallant
i	Traditions of the Fighten'est Navy on the Seven Seas.
)
Good Luck and God-Speed to Every One of You.
I	.	.	.	.
I '	.	■	■	-	-	■	■ ■
1	■	.	.	.	,	.
* ON WAR *	..c.-.-.
PRODUCTION	Manufacturers of AIRLESS. ABRASIVE BLAST CLEANING
4	,	EQUIPMENT AND DUST COLLECTING EQUIPMENT.
★

1*°
I
SOLLITT CONSTRUCTION COMPANY
SOUTH BEND, INDIANA

WE EXTEND OUR CONGRATULATIONS AND BEST WISHES TO
THE U. S. N. R. MIDSHIPMEN OF NOTRE DAME.
South &ncl Jfotel c^^ociation
OLIVER HOTEL	MORNINGSIDE	HOTEL
HOTEL HOFFMAN	-
HOTEL LA SALLE	JEFFERSON	HOTEL
CONGRATULATIONS ...
a friehd
of Our Bullet
Belching Monsters
From
Libya to the Solomons, in every battle,
America’s mechanized monsters roar into combat
like steel-clad dragons. In many tanks and combat
cars, there are two crews: a crew of courageous
American fighting men, and with them, sharing in
every action, The Invisible Crew—precision equip-
ment built by Bendix.
/ The Invisible Crew gives breath to the engines
of these monsters. It carries their brawn to wheels
and treads. The Invisible Crew steadies and con-
BENDIX PRODUCTS DIVISION
Back America's Invincible crew
... our fighters on every front.
Buy War Bonds and Stamps.
trols the weight and momentum that otherwise
would make them blundering, senseless giants.
On every front—land, sea And air—thousands
of other Bendix members of The Invisible Crew
perform vital war tasks of control and instrumen-
tation for the invincible crew, America’s fighting
men. And as this war for peace and freedom
reaches ’round the globe—the heart and skill of
thousands of Bendix workers are poured into the
fighting perfection of America’s war machines.
Precision
^^^Equipment by
THE MWS/BLE CHEW
yen
AVIATION
From Coast to Coast, 25 Bendix Plants Are Speeding Members of "The Invisible Crew" to World Battle Fronts
PHOTOGRAPHERS TO THIS CAPSTAN
Taking good pictures is our business! Making a good pic-
ture better . . . that’s our business, too! It depends on the
selection of the right paper and the right finish.
If you did not have an opportunity to purchase your pic-
tures before leaving South Bend ... or if you want additional
copies . . . send us the number on the back of the proof with
a brief description of the pose. Better yet, send us the proof.
We’ll send the pictures, postpaid, within two weeks.
“•DENIS STUDIO
119 N. MAIN STREET, SOUTH BEND, IND. ’