
I	/	jjSdMQ
■r
K
y<i.
another
Church
Notre Dante alumni and friends will soon celebrate
Christmas Season as the carillon in Sacred Heart
blessed
echoe s
* * wd'
•> • if
Lodi tawiplwks;
Wife, veniie inBdlildw w
Ww h vukk/l^jmi t/imjebniM
Vmile iubrcmis, vmfe
Vmilc dortws.Pminmw. -t
Dem de Dm, Liwn de- taimf
n



with the strains of \destc fidelis.
2 Resident Rectors	a
Donald P. Zeifang
4	President’s Page .=	1
Ree. Theodore M, He$bnr^h^ C^.C.
5	The Riven Foundation’s $25,000 (gift
O	”	&
6	Notre Dame’s Department of History
Franrlx J. Henninger
8	Entertainer Extraordinan
Ranald Fiancu
o
10 Intellectual Muscle Men
o
12 The Oldest Carillon in North America
^ames K, Murphy
14	Tax Dollar
15	The Heart of the Campus
Janrn P, Meagher
18 An Open Letter to AB Coiporatibns
Reo. John^.
stors
on pa<xe
By DONALD P. ZEIFANG
The author is a junior in the College
of Arts and Letters. In between at-
tending classes and writing articles for
NOTRE DAME he is chief announcer
at WSNDj the student radio station.
His home is in Niagara Falls, N. Y.
On New Year's Day of 1889,
Sorin Hall was opened to the
students of Notre Dame. Simultane-
ously, the history of Notre Dame’s
residence hall system was inaugurated.
According to some records, this fifty-
room “audacious experiment” was the
first Catholic college residence hall
offering private quarters to students.
Since that momentous occasion, the
residence hall system has evolved into
a complex but highly efficient setup.
Much as the family is the basic unit
of the world’s society, the hall is the
basic unit of society on campus, and
its residents are, in a sense, members
of a big and (at least, ideally) happy
family.
The men whose job is to keep these
‘big families’ happy are the rectors and
prefects—sixty-six all told—living in
the fifteen campus residence halls.
These men form a team in loco paren-
tis; their duties include vital functions
in the spheres of discipline, religion,
academic and social life. In executing
their jobs, they come in close contact
with the Prefect of Discipline, the Pre-
fect of Religion, the deans of the
various colleges and the Vice-President
for Student Affairs.
The rector or prefect is primarily a
disciplinarian. In reality he is an
educator who is helping young men
learn how to live individually and as
members of society. His first aim in
helping students in their campus life
is to get to know each and every one
personally, for it is obviously easier for
the priest to exercise guidance and
counsel in an atmosphere of friendli-
ness. The rector has more difficulty
than the prefect in establishing this
friendly relationship, not only because
of the greater number of students who
are under his jurisdiction, but also be-
cause of the burdensome amount of
paper work which the rector must per-
form. However, if individual prob-
lems arise which demand the attention
of the rector, he can consult the perma-
nent record of the student (which is
Father Broestl is rector of Dillon Hall which houses the largest student
contingent on campus. Notre Dame’s ‘hall system’ was begun in 1889.
RESIDENT
RECTORS
Students Learn to Live With Others
Under the Guidance and Counsel of
Rectors and Prefects
2
Notre Dame
passed on yearly from rector to rector)
and the advice of the floor prefect.
As for the religious activities of the
rector and prefect., the residence hall
system provides an opportunity for the
student to come into first-hand contact
with the reality of the priesthood. The
priest is set up as an example., and
that example can have a profound in-
fluence upon the Catholic laymen of
the future who are living under the
same roof with him.
Academically, the rector and prefect
set the general tone of study. They
understand the problems which fre-
quently confront students in the course
of their studies, because they are teach-
ers themselves. In fact, the dean of the
College of Arts and Letters, Father
Charles Sheedy, is a floor prefect in
Fisher Hall. Three rectors are depart-
ment heads: Father Thomas Cady
(Classics), Father Thomas McDonagh
(Economics), and Father Carl Hager
(Music). Four rectors teach religion:
Fathers Joseph Haley, Leonard Collins,
George Bernard and Robert Pelton.
Rounding out the group are: Fathers
Edmund Murray (History), John
Walsh (Education), Ferdinand Brown
(Mathematics), Lawrence Broestl
(German), Charles Harris (Physics),
Glenn Boarman (Philosophy), Michael
Murphy (Geology), and Paul Fry-
berger (Economics). Every priest-pre-
fect is also a teacher, with Brother
Conan Moran having the distinction
of being the only brother and the only
non-teacher. However, Brother Con-
an’s experience as director of the Uni-
versity Book Store qualifies him as
something of an expert in the business
field.
Lastly, the rector does what he can
to enrich the social life of his residents.
This is done largely through coopera-
tion with the Office of Student Affairs,
which has jurisdiction over campus
social activities, and also by encourag-
ing and aiding in hall projects con-
ducted by the students themselves, such
as mixers and picnics.
Dillon Hall, the largest on campus,
has Father Lawrence Broestl as “boss-
man.” Now in his seventh year as
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, ’37, Managing Editor.
Vol. 9, No. 4	Winter, 1956
rector, this crew-cut, quick-witted priest
has no less than eight prefects to aid
him in guiding 444 Dillonites through
their junior year. Night checks, week-
end permissions, and similar routines
take a good deal of the Dillon rector’s
time, but to Father Broestl the biggest
problem, especially in the autumn sea-
son, is the overzealousness of newly-
elected hall officers who think that
progress and change are synonymous.
“The trouble is,” explains the patient
rector, “that after they’re gone, we have
to live with their changes.”
o
Rectors of some of the smaller halls
prefer the intimacy of “chapel chats”
for making announcements pertinent to
hall life. However, a chat with the
troops of Dillon would be so intimate
as to approach that of the proverbial
“sardines in a can,” so Father Broestl
ordinarily reverts to a frequent mimeo-
graphed epistle which accomplishes the
desired back-patting and whip-crack-
ing.
Father Broestl’s working day is his
whole day, from awakening to retiring.
He is on the go before most of the
students have heard their alarm clocks
in the morning, and he is awake after
they have reset those mechanical gad-
gets and hit the sack.
And Father Broestl is no exception;
his life is the average rector’s life,
except that he has more students.
There are many unpleasant duties
connected with the jobs of Notre
Dame’s “parents,” especially if offenses
are committed by students. “This
hurts me more than it hurts you,”
seems to be the sentiment of the priest
when he has to clamp down on an
errant underling. The efforts of the
well-meaning rector or prefect are ap-
preciated at least inwardly by the stu-
dents. Often the appreciation is more
manifest. Consider the case of the
late Father John “Pop” Farley—a be-
loved Sorin Hall rector for many years
and a Notre Dame ‘tradition’ to stu-
dents of a generation ago. So beloved,
in fact, that they named Farley Hall
in memory of him.
“Learning to live with people” may
be a time-worn cliche but it also is
one of the well-known features of a
Notre Dame education. Young men
with varied economic backgrounds,
who are from different sections of the
country, have the privilege of friendly
association with each other in the ‘hall
system’. It forms an integral part of
the educational pattern at Notre Dame
—the training of the whole man in
moral, responsible leadership.
Extracts from Father Broestl’s mimeo-
graphed. letters to Dillon Hcdl
residents :
Is Man a Rational Animal?
It may seem strange that I
should ask this question: Is man
a rational animal? But if you
were to enter the TV room short-
ly after our intellectuals have just
viewed a program contributing to
their mental growth, you would
tend to doubt man’s rationality.
The room, decorated and out-
fitted at great expense and with
extreme care, resembles a hog
pen. Now, I don’t object to your
being comfortable, and I would
hesitate to draw up a list of rules
and regulations for the TV room.
But it seems to me that with
everyone exercising a bit of care,
the ash trays could be used for
your butts, and used food con-
tainers could be deposited in the
waste basket without inconveni-
encing anyone. At least it is worth
a try.
An Old Refrain
We are accustomed to hear on
football Saturdays: Your car is
locked and your motor is run-
ning 1 Here in Dillon we have
some human motors that are in-
deed running, in this case breath-
ing, but we seem to get little
activity from them. As usual we
had a few locked or closed eyes
this past week. Again we say that
for those who failed to make
morning checks we extend the
many advantages of the campus
for the rest of the week. Simply
put, the following young men are
campused until the week-end.
Monday Morning Blues
The Blues now change to Or-
chids since we would like to com-
pliment the Football Team on
bringing the interhall champion-
ship to Dillon. It was what is
usually referred to as a titanic
struggle. Indeed, both teams
roared up and down the field—
between the 40-yard lines—but
late in the final quarter the de-
cisive score was made by a charg-
ing defense. Only one big prob-
lem remains. Where shall we put
the huge trophy which the Stu-
dent Senate certainly contem-
plates presenting to the hall?
Vol. 9 • No. 4	3

Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.C., is Notre Dame’s six-
teenth president.
Once again, as the end of the year
approaches, I am pleased to have this
opportunity of reporting to you on the
progress of our general plans for
Faculty Development, and especially
of the part of it known as the Dis-
tinguished Professors’ Program. This
Program has contributed immeasurably
to the academic growth of Notre Dame
during the past year and, because your
generous assistance has made these ad-
vances possible, we are happy to share
the results, as well as our future plans,
with you.
As I mentioned to you last year, the
Distinguished Professors’ Program en-
abled us to bring several eminent schol-
ars to the faculty of the University,
either as visitors or as permanent addi-
tions to the staff, during the 1956-57
schoolyear. In the spring semester, we
were privileged to have Reverend Louis
Raeymaeker, Director of the Advanced
Institute of Philosophy at the Univer-
sity of Louvain in Belgium, Dr. Edward
F. Caldin and Dr. Michael P. Fogarty
from the Universities of Leeds and
Cardiff, and Dr. Joseph Pieper, one of
the best known present day German
philosophers. These men together with
Reverend I. M. Bochenski, O.P., world
famous mathematical logician, have
come and gone, but we feel that their
presence has greatly enriched the lives
of our students.
This Fall, Jacques Maritain, who, I
am sure, needs no introduction, and
Cleanth Brooks, the literary critic from
Yale University, have delivered a series
of lectures to the faculty and students
in philosophy and English. Dr. Robert
G. Schmitt will be with us as a Visiting
Lecturer in Psychiatry, and the Depart-
ment of Sociology is being further
strengthened by the work of Reverend
Joseph Fichter, S.J. of Loyola Univer-
sity, New Orleans.
In addition to Reverend Philip
Hughes, who joined the staff of the
Department of History as a permanent
member last year, and who is generally
acknowledged as one of the greatest
historians of the Reformation period,
the Department will be further en-
hanced by the presence of Reverend
Guillaume de Bertier de Sauvigny.
Father de Sauvigny comes to us from
the Institut Catholique in Paris.
As we look forward to 1957-58, we
are proud to announce that arrange-
ments have been completed which will
provide two distinguished visitors for
our Department of Mathematics. Pro-
fessor Thoralf Skolem of the University
of Oslo, Norway, will be at Notre Dame
for the entire schoolyear, and Professor
Kurt Mahler of Manchester Univer-
sity, England, will come in the fall
semester.
We feel, however, that perhaps the
most important phase of Faculty De-
velopment was our ability to revise and
augment our faculty salary scales.
Under the new scales which were
adopted, faculty salaries were again
increased this year by well over $150,-
000. Notre Dame, however, as well as
all other universities and colleges, is
still faced with the increasingly critical
problem of recruiting and retaining the
most qualified men for our teaching
staff. In order to keep pace with the
action being taken by other educational
institutions, we are again reviewing and
revising our faculty salary structure
and, from present indications, envision
another increase in teaching salaries
during the coming year.
We have, of course, been greatly
heartened and encouraged by the
wholehearted acceptance by our friends
of the aims and purposes directed to
Faculty Development, and hope that
you share our genuine pride in what
we have been able to accomplish during
these past years with your enthusiastic
and wonderfully generous support.
On behalf of all at Notre Dame, I
express again sincere gratitude for your
meaningful interest and help, and send
assurances of our continuing best wishes
and prayers for you and yours during
this blessed Christmas season.
THE RIVCO
FOUNDATION’S
$25,000 GIFT
New Loan Fund to be
“Emergency Aid" For
Deserving Students
Undergraduates and law stu-
dents in need of an “emergency
loan/’ who have fulfilled the necessary
requirements, will benefit from a gen-
erous $25,000 grant given by the Rivco
Foundation of Bellwood, Ill., to Notre
Dame.
The presentation was made on Octo-
ber 6 by Mrs. John A. Morrissey in
behalf of the Foundation. Rev. Theo-
dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president,
accepted the gift at a ceremony in the
Student Center prior to the Indiana-
Notre Dame football game.
In establishing the John A. Morris-
sey Memorial Fund, the grant to the
Student Senate specifies that there must
be an urgent need on the part of the
student and the applicant’s former loan
office record must be completely clear
of any previous debt. After a period
of 50 years, the loan fund will revert to
the University’s permanent endowment
fund to be used for any worthy pur-
pose, or it may be continued for an
indefinite time at the University’s dis-
cretion.
Preceding the presentation, a Me-
morial Mass was celebrated by Rev.
James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-presi-
dent in charge of student affairs, in
O	J
the Pangbom Hall Chapel.
The Rivco Foundation was estab-
lished by the Chicago Rivet and Ma-
chine Company of which the late Mr.
Morrissey was co-founder and first
president.
In addition to Mrs. Morrissey and
Father Hesburgh, others who partici-
pated in the ceremony included Rev.
Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice-presi-
dent in charge of business affairs who
also gave a brief talk; Father Norton;
Edward Morrissey, now president of
the company; Mrs. Morrissey’s son
John, a junior in the College of Engi-
neering; and Patrick C. Logan, Day-
ton, Ohio, president of the N.D. Stu-
dent Senate which will administer the
loan fund.
The new gift will replace the Uni-
versity Loan Fund formerly used for
this specific purpose. Loans, that is
those granted when conditions have
been properly noted, will be available
on 24 hours notice.
Students who will comprise a com-
mittee to supervise the Rivco Loan
Fund are: Patrick J. Conway, senior,
Rochester, Minn., administrator; Jerry
M. Brady, junior, Idaho Falls, Idaho,
Student Senate secretary; Harry K.
Wasoff, junior, Dallas, Tex., treasurer
of the Senate; Robert H. Dunseath,
senior, Indianapolis, Ind., manager of
the LaFortune Student Center; Robert
F. Duffy, junior, Floral Park, N. Y.,
and David J. McMahon, junior, Say-
ville, N. Y., assistant managers.
Participants in the Rivco Foundation gift ceremony included, from left to right: Mrs. Morris-
sey’s son, John; Fr. Hesburgh; Mrs. John A. Morrissey; Mr. Edward Morrissey; and Pat Logan.
Vol. 9 • No. 4
5
Faculty Members Have Published Numerous Books
And Articles; Additional Manuscripts Are In Process
By FRANCIS J. HENNINGER
The author is a native of Bay-
side, N. Y., and is studying for a
Master’s degree in English. He grad-
uated in 1956 from St. John’s Univer-
sity where he was editor of the student
news publication.
The Department of History faculty
has recently published many new
books while preparing other manu-
scripts for the press. These men have
earned the respect and admiration of
other history departments and histo-
rians across the country for volumes
which they have written.
Mr. James F. Edwards, who started
the University Archives as The Catho-
lic Archives of America, provided the
University with one of the richest
hoards of American Catholic docu-
ments. Most of the progress in the
fields of graduate and advanced work
began with the development of these
archives and has been extended in va-
rious ways.
Since the chief work of the Depart-
ment’s research lies in general cultural
and religious history, two men are
mainly responsible for the contributions
to American history. They are Rev.
Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., head of the
Department (Ph.D. from Columbia),
and Dr. Aaron Abell (Harvard).
Mr. Abell has published the “Urban
Impact on American Protestantism,”
and is working on a volume about the
history of the Catholic social and eco-
nomic activity since 1865.
Begun in 1941, the field of advanced
6 Notre Dame
work has been strengthened by several
men, among them Dr. Thomas Brown
(Harvard), Dr. Marshall Smelser
(Harvard) and Dr. Vincent DeSantis
(Johns Hopkins). The formei' two
teach American religious and cultural
history and the latter is concerned with
American political history.
Mr. Smelser did his doctoral disser-
tation on U. S. naval history during the
revolution and has published two books
on the colonial period. He has been
granted a Forrestal Fellowship by the
government for further research in
naval history, and was one of the Wal-
green Lecturers in 1956 at the Univer-
sity of Chicago. Mr. DeSantis has had
several articles printed and has a book
in manuscript.
For its courses in European History
the Department has shared in the Dis-
tinguished Professors Program to ob-
tain the services of Fr. Philip Hughes,
of England, and Abbe Guillaume de
Bertier de Sauvigny. Fr. Hughes is per-
haps the best known Catholic historian
writing in English. His particular work
is Church History and especially the
English Reformation. Fie has published
among many writings a three-volume
study of that reformation, and the first
three volumes of his monumental work
“The History of the Catholic Church.”
A one-volume study of Church His-
tory has appeared over his name in a
soft cover edition.
Abbe de Sauvigny, at Notre Dame
on a temporary basis, is a professor at
the Catholic Institute of Paris. He is
the author of several books on modern
French history and the French Restora-
tion.
One of the Department’s historians
is Dr. William Shanahan (Columbia),
who is a specialist on Germany. He
has published a history of the early
Prussian military reforms, and also one
of a two-volume work on German
protestant political parties with the sec-
ond in preparation.
Mr. Shanahan is a member of the
Notre Dame Committee on Interna-
tional Relations along with Dr. M. A.
Fitzsimons (Chicago). The former
studied in Germany for a year and the
latter in England.
Mr. Fitzsimons, the Editor of the
nationally read Review of Politics, is an
authority on ‘modem England’ and has
a book printed on the foreign policy
of the English Labor government. Pro-
fessor James Corbett (Ecole des Char-
tes, Paris) is doing extensive research
in mediaeval history. Besides studies on
mediaeval manuscripts, he has pub-
lished a volume on the Papacy.
Dr. Frederick Pike (Texas) is in the
field of Latin America, and Professor
Theodore Hodges (working for a Ph.D.
at Columbia) is in European economic
history and geography.
Dr. Boleslaw Szczesniak (Ottawa)
has written numerous articles on medi-
aeval and early modem Chinese and
Japanese histoxy. He teaches Russian
history at Notre Dame. Dr. L. Leon
Bernard (North Carolina) is writing
on the France of the Ancien Regime.
Notre Dame has had a Department
of History since the turn of the century.
Though such a program had existed
for several summers, a Masters degree
was not offered during the regular
school year until 1940. The second
World War postponed the Doctoral
program to 1946. At the present time
Father McAvoy, Department head, and Dr. Abell teach courses in American history.
As director of the University Archives, Father McAvoy has charge of valuable materials.
/ Dr. DeSantis (standing) and Dr. Brown are studying the “Richmond Weekly Whig,”
* printed in 1862. Both professors instruct N.D. students in religious and political history.
about 35 graduates are enrolling in
these courses, nine of whom are Ph.D.
candidates.
Fr. McAvoy states that these pro-
fessors with their varied backgrounds
and specialties give the curriculum an
excellent balance from undergraduate
through advanced work. Besides classes
in American history Notre Dame con-
fers Doctorates in the fields of 19th and
20th century English, French and Ger-
man history, and in some phases of
mediaeval history. Notre Dame history’
Ph.D.’s are already teaching at Mar-
quette, St. Peter’s, Nazareth, St. Mary’s,
Ganisius and Mundelein.
“We’ve a young faculty,” Father
says, “working very hard on many un-
published works. When they appear
those books will add prestige to Notre
Dame’s reputation in this field.
“Our resources lie in the social and
cultural phases of American and Euro-
pean history, and that’s where a Cath-
olic university is expected to contribute.
But besides using the material in the
archives and libraries for publications,
we have to train more teachers for
positions in other educational institu-
tions.”
Vol. 9 • No. 4	7
A new album, featuring religious
songs, has been recorded by the glee club for MGM and is on sale in the campus book store.
ZESXTRJ1.ORDXSE/ 7TIT. T
By RONALD M. FRANCIS
The author, a senior in Journalism,
has more than a casual interest in the
glee club—this year he is its president.
Ron Francis lives in Toledo, O.
The Notre Dame Glee Club’s nation-
al prestige is on an equal level with that
of another well-known musical organi-
zation, the Marching Band of the
Fighting Irish, which specializes in col-
orful halftime shows during the fall
season. In fact the Singing Irish
o o
have performed before “live” audi-
ences numbering as many as 85,000
people, which might cause a biased
observer to think that the glee club is
a more outstanding box office ‘attrac-
tion’ than the football team. Be that
as it may, this article is not intended
to debate the relative merits of bands-
8 Notre Dame
Notre Dame Glee Club Is An Outstanding Unit
Which Appears In Concerts Throughout Nation
men, gridsters and glee clubbers on a
popularity poll basis.
Ed Sullivan’s “Toast of the Town”
program featured the N.D. Glee Club
in 1948 on a nation-wide network with
a listening audience estimated in the
millions.
In 1950, before 20,000 persons
crowding the Chicago Stadium, they
sang a benefit with movie stars, Pat
O’Brien and Ann Blyth.
Teamed with Jeanette McDonald,
Jose Ferrer, Eddie Fisher, and Arthur
Fiedler directing the Robin Hood Dell
Orchestra, in Philadelphia’s Municipal
Stadium, the Club entertained their
largest audience, 85,000 people, at the
Philadelphia Music Festival in 1953.
Again with Eddie Fisher, they assist-
ed him on his “Coke Time” TV Broad-
cast from the Notre Dame Field House
on Sept. 30, 1955, when the campus
television station WNDU-TV was
dedicated.
Having appeared on several CBS,
NBC, and Mutual radio programs, the
Club has recorded some of the most
popular songs in their repretoire, in-
cluding the famous “Victory March.”
They have recently recorded an album
of religious songs for MGM which is
on sale at the Notre Dame Book Store.
The Club is a student-managed
organization without financial backing.
It must pay its own way and so it dare
not leave the campus without a mini-
mum fee assured to cover transporta-
tion, hotel and food expenses.
Its officers, guided by Prof. Daniel
Pedtke, arrange the details of every
appearance, be it a football “pep
rally,” an intermission program in the
Student Center, a one night stand in
Chicago or a two week tour of New
England.
In the fall, the Club invites all stu-
dents, especially Freshmen, to try out
for the organization. From the ap-
proximate 200 that are auditioned, 30-
40 men are selected on the basis of
tonal quality, range, volume and “ear”
for music, to replace the previous year’s
graduates. The entire group comprises
130 members, representing every class
and college in the University. Few
have outstanding voices, and only the
minority can read music, nevertheless
they compose a well-blended group.
Though most sponsors are Notre
Dame Alumni Clubs and Councils of
the Knights of Columbus, the group
will sing for any agency willing to
defray their expenses.
The Business Manager must refuse
hundreds of requests throughout the
year because of conflicting dates, in-
convenient distances, or other practical
reasons. His requests to book the Club
in a town that would fit perfectly into
a tentative tour, are too often declined.
So all in all, many fortunate “breaks”
are necessary to set up a successful trip.
After a contract is signed the Publicity
Manager sends the sponsor detailed
suggestions concerning committee
organization, advance publicity, and
ticket prices.
While the sponsor strives to attract
an audience, the Club rehearses every
weekday for one hour, refreshing stand-
ard songs and learning new numbers
for their repretoire.
Financial reasons limit 40 men for
out of town engagements. They are
chosen for musicianship, knowledge of
songs, attendance at practice, seniority
and all around character.
Although there is no form of re-
muneration or tuition grants from the
University, the Club has her renowned
school’s name behind them, without
which they could do little. Their Jove
for singing and the possibilities for
travel are the wonderful motivating
o
factors that help maintain a fine spirit.
In May of 1955 at the meeting of
the National Inter-Collegiate Choral
Association, the delegates from 45 of
the nation’s college glee clubs learned
that only two, Purdue and Notre Dame,
operated with a budget of over $10,000
per year. The fact that Notre Dame,
independent of any Administrative
assistance, spent $12,000 during 1954-
1955 amazed the delegates.
The prestige of the Notre Dame Glee
Club has grown tremendously since its
beginning in 1915. Traveling thous-
ands of miles each year, singing from
coast to coast and border to border,
they have entertained millions from the
concert stage, radio, and television.
In 1915, the first Notre Dame Glee
Club, a group of twelve voices was
organized for informal songfests by
Ward Perrot, a law student. For many
years their appearances were confined
to the campus where they entertained
at various school functions. Before his
ordination, the late Rev. Hugh O’Don-
nell, C.S.C., a former president of
Notre Dame, belonged to this original
group.
Throughout the next few years Prof.
Joseph J. Casasanta directed the Club
and made it an active part of university
fife. He began scheduling the Club in
the Midwest and East. In 1928, with
the influencial help of Father O’Don-
nell, Mr. Casasanta lead the “Irish”
choraliers in their first tour of the
West Coast.
Professor Pedtke assumed the duties
of Glee Club director and coordinator
in 1938. Before coming to Notre
Dame, he had enjoyed a distinguished
career in vocal and instrumental music.
A pupil of such outstanding musicians
as Alexander Raab and Sergic Tar-
nowsky, Mr. Pedtke studied at the Bush
and American Conservatories of Music,
besides earning degrees at the Univer-
sities of DePaul and Chicago.
Today, he is a fine musician and con-
ductor, as well as an outstanding com-
poser, arranger and teacher. Many
refer to him as “Mr. Glee Club.”
Local entertainment keeps the Club
busy in South Bend and other com-
paritively near-by localities between
tours, when civic groups ask Mr. Pedtke
to send a quartet or octet to entertain
them. These appearances, coupled
with intensive choral training, give
them the necessary polish to perform
operatic, classical, semi-classical, popu-
lar, and humorous numbers in their
two hour concerts.
Strengthened by the tradition of forty
years of fine music and entertainment,
the choraliers are ready once again to
sing for the benefit of needy charities
throughout the country.
Professor Daniel Pedtke directs the glee club
in a rehearsal. The group totals 130 members.
Physical Education
Department Has
Academic Discipline
At Notre Dame, the Physical Educa-
tion department is not a refuge of the
shallow-brained. In the first place,
those weak in mind aren’t allowed to
matriculate under the Dome; secondly,
if perchance a numskulled neophyte
were able to sneak by the registrar, he
would certainly reveal his lack of
scholarly savvy if he headed for the
Phy-Ed department, because he would
not be there long. He’d flunk out.
If the Greek philosopher Plato were
around Notre Dame these days, he’d
probably be pretty pleased to see the
Physical Education Department organ-
ized as a branch of the College of Arts
and Letters. For just as the Education
department is concerned with training
professional teachers of what Plato
would call Music, so then the Physical
Education department trains profes-
sionals in the Gymnastic, so that the
next generation might be healthy in
both mind and body. The field of
Physical Education has fallen in esteem
since Platonic days, and has been
abused in some universities to such an
extent that it is little more than a
series of glorified playground periods.
Fortunately for the future of Physical
Education in the United States, Notre
Dame is one of those schools which
trains Physical Education majors to be
true members of a profession, because
the gym teacher or coach is as much a
professional educator as the philosophy
professor. Towards this end, the Phy-
Ed department presents a rigid aca-
demic discipline. Besides the numerous
courses offered by the department itself,
the Phy-Ed major must wade through
the normal requirements of the Arts
and Letters College (Philosophy, Reli-
gion, English, History, and the Great
Books Seminar) plus Chemistry and
Zoology. As for the courses in the Phy-
Ed department proper, the freshman
and sophomore years feature a
thorough-going course in physical
activities. For three semester hours of
credit, the student spends ten hours per
week in a rigorous program which
touches virtually every sport common
in America today. Throughout the
four years of study, the Phy-Ed major
also studies such required courses as
human anatomy, physiology, kinesi-
ology (the study of body action in
gymnastic exercises), personal and
community hygiene, and first aid. After
the freshman and sophomore years, a
two-week training period in the han-
dling of camping projects is held at
Camp Eberhart, Gorey Lake, Michi-
gan. During the junior year and first
half of the senior year, the Phy-Ed
major is given a first-hand taste of
teaching by helping the regular staff
members conduct required service
classes for freshmen in the various col-
leges of the University. Finally, during
the second semester of the senior year,
the student spends 120 hours of prac-
tice teaching in the South Bend Public
School System.
Many of the Physical Education
majors volunteer to officiate and ad-
minister the various phases of the inter-
hall sports program. Under the super-
vision of Mr. Dominick J. Napolitano,
recently appointed director of interhall
athletics, this program is a popular
past-time with most undergrads, and
owes no small part of its success to the
work of the Phy-Ed majors.
Contrary to common belief, there is
not an overabundance of athletes
majoring in Physical Education. The
primary reason for the absence of ath-
letes is that the course is too-time-con-
suming, what with the laboratory sci-
ences and lengthy physical activities
program. Secondly, it is an established
fact that the requirements of the course
are more demanding than those of
Commerce and other Arts and Letters
majors. So many athletes find that
they just cannot handle the Phy-Ed
course and play varsity sports, too.
The 108 students presently enrolled
in Phy-Ed are under the tutelage of a
thirteen-man staff (seven full-time
teachers and six teaching fellows)
headed by Mr. John A. Scannell.
An outstanding professor, Mi. Scan-
nell has been teaching at Notre Dame
since 1929. He is a scholar in his own
right, having earned a Doctor of Edu-
cation degree from Indiana University,
and has a deep concern foi' the stand-
ards of his department. To acquaint
freshmen Phy-Ed majors with their
future profession, Mr. Scannell teaches
an introductory course which serves to
orient them with the aims and ob-
jectives of the program and its place
in the educational system, besides giving
a historical viewpoint to the profession.
The importance of this course can
hardly be overestimated, for it helps
the novice find out whether the physi-
cal realm is really his vocation or just
an avocation.
The other regular members of the
staff consist of: Gilfred A. Burdick,
swimming and life-saving instructor at
Notre Dame for more than 20 years;
Francis R. Maxwell, now on a leave
of absence studying for an advanced
degree at Indiana University; Thomas
W. Fallon, specialist in health educa-
tion who also is wrestling and tennis
coach; Ernest A. Szekely, physical
training and education; George A.
Cooper, a part-time teacher who in-
structs in human anatomy, physical
diagnosis and kinesiology; and Dennis
10
Notre Dame
Stark, the department’s newest mem-
ber who joined the group this fall as
a water safety instructor.
A man with a Physical Education
degree will have no trouble finding
work after graduation, for he will be
licensed to teach this subject in practi-
cally every state. He also meets the
requirements to teach Biology and at
least one other subject.
The major incentive for a career in
Physical Education is, in its essence, an
unselfish one. The true value of this
profession is not found in its financial
return, which is adequate but little
more, nor is it in prestige, for this
aspect is certainly not what it should
be. Rather, it is the satisfaction of
helping boys help themselves that the
gym teacher, coach, and boys club
director will really be happy about.
Plato would be happy about it, too.
Dr. John A. Scannell, head of Department.
j'
>
Dominick J. Napolitano appointed
Director of Interhall Athletics.
Aquatic instructors Gilfred A. Bur-
dick (right) and Dennis Stark.
Prof. George A. Cooper
lectures on anatomy.
Professors Szekely (left 1
and Fallon are specialists
in physical training and
health education.

THE OLDEST CARILLON
IN NORTH AMERICA
By JAMES E. MURPHY
Father McAuliffe is carillonneur and Moreau Seminary choir director.
The author is Director of Notre
Dame’s Department of Public In-
formation, which dispenses academic
publicity to the press, radio and tele-
vision.
High in the spire of Sacred Heart
Church on Notre Dame campus
are twenty-three bells comprising the
oldest carillon in North America. The
bells, which are one-hundred years old
this year, were imported from France
in 1856, just fourteen years after the
university was founded. During the
intervening century they have rung out
the angelus three times each day, sum-
moned hundreds of thousands of wor-
shipers to the church and sounded
countless hymns across the campus.
Like Notre Dame’s famed golden
dome, the carillon was a personal pro-
ject of Rev. Edward F. Sorin, C.S.C.,
founder and first president of the uni-
versity. He ordered the bells, which
range in weight from fifteen to nearly
eleven-hundred pounds, from the Bol-
lee and Sons foundry at LeMans,
France. They were solemnly blessed
on November 12, 1856, by Archbishop
Purcell of Cincinnati and placed in
the church which preceded the present
structure. Each bell is named for a
different title accorded the Virgin
Mary.
When Sacred Heart church was
completed in 1875, the carillon was in-
stalled in the spire approximately one-
hundred feet above the ground. Played
manually originally, the carillon later
was operated somewhat similar to a
player piano with a revolving drum
mechanism tripping the hammers of the
various bells to play a melody. This
mechanism was synchronized with the
clock in the spire to play hymns at
specific times during the day. In 1953
a new clavier or keyboard was installed
and the bells were re-hung. Since that
time it has been possible to play the
instrument manually or by remote
control electrically from the sacristy.
Often during the spring and summer
months, Rev. William McAuliffe,
G.S.'C., carillonneur and director of the
Moreau Seminary choir at Notre
Dame, climbs the winding stairs of the
church spire to play sacred or classical
melodies. In mid-December, when the
students are about to leave the campus
for Christmas vacation, Father McAu-
liffe plays the traditional carols.
Though not as old as the bells of the
carillon and technically not part of it,
the largest bell by far in the spire of
Sacred Heart Church is a bourdon
weighing 15,400 pounds. Named for
St. Anthony of Padua, it is rung only
on the most solemn occasions when it
can be heard for many miles around.
It measures 7 feet, 2 inches in height
and is 6 feet, 10p2 inches in diameter
at the base. The huge bell arrived at
Notre Dame from the LeMans foun-
dries in 1867, but it was a number of
years later before it was installed in the
new Sacred Heart Church. When the
church was consecrated on the occasion
of the golden jubilee of Father Sorin’s
ordination in 1888, the bell was blessed
by Bishop Maurice Burke of Cheyenne.
Until recent years it took six hefty
Notre Dame students to ring the big
bell of St. Anthony. Like the carillon,
it can now be rung electrically from
the church sacristy. In olden days as
today it may be rung to herald a prince
of the Church or to mark some other
memorable event in the history of Notre
Dame. Whatever the occasion, its
booming voice, like few bells on earth,
seems strong enough to “shake down
the thunder.”
12
Notre Dame
LaFortunes Donate
Additional $112,000
Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A. LaFortune,
Tulsa, Okla., have provided an addi-
tional gift, valued at a minimum
$112,000 at the time of its presentation,
for the remodeling of the LaFortune
Student Centex' annex. Representing
the University, Rev. James E. Norton,
C.S.C., vice-president in charge of stu-
dent affairs, accepted a certificate for
1000 shares of Gulf Oil stock which
Mr. and Mrs. LaFortune
sold on the market that day fox' $112
per share.
This latest gift from Mr. and Mrs.
LaFortune plus their prior generous
benefactions currently total $300,000
in contributions to Notre Dame. The
LaFortune Student Centex' is one of
the most functional and widely-used
structures on the campus and is the
scene of many student activities.
Opened in 1953 the interior was reno-
vated in Old Science Hall. Its spacious
lounges and recreation rooms have pro-
vided urgently-needed facilities for the
social well-being of the entire student
body. Decorations and furnishings of
the Center have been attractively de-
signed for the comfort of the students
and their guests.
Mr. LaFortune is a member of
Notre Dame’s 1916 class. For a num-
ber of years he has been on the Uni-
versity’s Associate Board of Lay Trus-
tees and was awarded an honorary
degree by his alma mater in 1949. In
that same year His Holiness Pope Pius
XII named Mr. LaFortune a Knight
o
Commandex' of the Ordex- of St.
Gregory.
A native of South Bend, Mr. La-
Fortune served in the naval aviation
service during World Wax’ I. Following
cessation of hostilities he was appointed
Physical Director of the American Red
Gross and supervised recreation for
several military posts in this country.
Moving to Oklahoma, Mr. LaFor-
tune worked first in an advertising
agency and later was on the Tulsa
World and National Petroleum News
staffs. His business career has been
distinguished beginning with his ap-
pointment as secretary of the Warren
Petroleum Co., in 1924, followed by
an appointment to the position of
executive vice-president.
Mr. LaFortune is married to the
former Gertrude Leona Tremel of
South Bend and they are the parents
of four children. At the present time
he is engaged in the oil business as an
independent operator.
The LaFortune Student Center is
one of the outstanding “show places,”
for visitors, on the Notre Dame campus.
In addition to the many well-planned
facilities it soon will contain the Hud-
dle, a favorite snack hangout of
students for many years.
Political Candidates
Visit Campus
Candidates of both major political
parties visited the campus in the
closing days of the campaign. Vice-
president Richard M. Nixon spoke
to the students and special guests in
the Navy drill hall and latex' watched
the Fighting Irish in a practice ses-
sion on Gartiex' Field. Governor’
Adlai Stevenson attended the Notre
Dame-Michigan State game, accom-
panied by Sen. John Kennedy, fol-
lowing a speech he made in down-
town South Bend earlier that after-
noon.
Mr. Paul Rush
Bequest of $1,000 Given
By Notre Dame Alumnus
Paul Rush, an outstanding athlete
at Notre Dame and teammate of Knute
Rockne on the Irish track squad, be-
queathed $1,000 to the University
when he died on December 15, 1955.
An alumnus of Notre Dame in the
Class of 1912, Mr. Rush had been pres-
ident of the Rush Lumber Company,
Memphis, Tenn., but retired because of
ill health a number of years ago. A
native of Evansville, Indiana, he was
one of the pioneex' lumbermen in the
South after moving to Memphis in
1910.
While at the University, Mr. Rush
roomed with John F. O’Hara who
latex- was to be Rev. John F. O’Hara,
C.S.C., president of Notre Dame and
now Archbishop of Philadelphia. As
an undergraduate, Mr. Rush not only
participated in sports but also was a
membei' of the dramatic club and the
Scholastic staff. In addition to Rockne
othex’ well-known men on the track
team of that era were John Devine,
world record holder in the half-mile
and Forest Fletcher, destined to be one
of the country’s most popular track
coaches.
His survivors include Mrs. Dorothy
Wilde Rush, the widow, who is a na-
tive of Oldham, England: Mrs. Harxy
B. Gunther, a daughter; and three
grandchildren.
Mr. Rush’s unrestricted gift will be
used for the Faculty Development Pro-
gram, which is Notre Dame’s current
O 3
project to enhance academic prestige
at the University.
Vol. 9 • No. 4
13
-------------- -----1
$ TAX DOLLARS $
... reduce the cost of your gift to Notre Dame
by taking advantage of existing tax rates
With the end of 1956 approaching,
the following information is highlighted
for alumni and non-alumni friends who
are interested in tax benefits regarding
a contribution to Notre Dame.
Gift of Cash
Existing tax rates have been extremely
helpful in permitting the taxpayer to
make a charitable contribution at low
cost. When you give to the University,
a deduction of the full amount of your
gift up to 30% of your adjusted gross
income for Federal tax purposes is
allowable.
Gift of Property or Securities
The gift need not be from income
or cash. Equally deductible is a prop-
erty gift or a gift from securities. Those
that have increased in value while held
by an individual are deductible at full
market value and are free from any tax
on capital gain — this results in a double
saving to the donor!
COST PER $100 OF DEDUCTIBLE
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS
If Taxable Income before de- ducting contributions is —		Cost per $100 of Deductible Charitable Contribution is —	
Not less	But Less	For Single	For Married Persons
Than	Than	Person	Filing Jointly
$ 8,000	$ 10,000	$ 66.00	$ 74.00
10,000	12,000	62.00	74.00
14,000	16,000	53.00	70.00
20,000	22,000	44.00	62.00
32,000	38,000	35.00	50.00
44,000	50,000	28.00	41.00
50,000	60,000	25.00	41.00
70,000	80,000	19.00	35.00
100,000	150,000	11.00	25.00
200,000	300,000	9.00	11.00
Gifts from Corporations
Corporations contributing beyond the
5 % limitation in any single year can ex-
tend the excess over as deductions in the
two succeeding years—subject, of course,
to the 5% limitation for each of the
three years. The actual cost of each con-
tribution dollar is only 48 cents for cor-
porations which have taxable incomes in
excess of $25,000 since taxes are paid
at the rate of 52% of such excess.
Smaller corporations with incomes less
than $25,000 are taxed at 30% and the
cost of each dollar contribution is 70
cents.
COST PER $1,000 OF DEDUCTIBLE
CHARITABLE CONTRIBUTIONS*
Taxable Income	Cost of $1,000 Gift
$ 10,000	$ 780.00
15,000	740.00
20,000	700.00
25,000	656.00
50,000	440.00
* Married couple with two children
14
Notre Dame
ran
IIG






Sacred Heart Church—
Devotional Center for
Notre Dame Students
By JAMES P. MEAGHER
The author is a native of Rock
Island, 111. He is majoring in Journal-
ism and will graduate in 1957.
Meagher is a staff member of student
radio station WSND.
The visitor to Notre Dame, taking
the customary tour of the campus,
is impressed by the uniqueness and
beauty of Sacred Heart Church. He is
exposed to a large array of religious
relics, historic souvenirs and works of
art which almost make it a museum as
well as the devotional center for 5,600
students and the eighty or so families
CIhmpci.3

&
H* 1

•»	<r* «
ft 4






from the surrounding area which
it as a parish church.
There’s a golden grill in one of
side chapels from the home of
use
the
St.
Bridget of Sweden, and a charcoal-
burning hand-warmer used by a pion-
eer American priest. There are works
of art ranging from the Bernini school
of over 350 years ago to the contem-
porary sculpture of Ivan Mestrovic.
Perhaps the reader of Notre Dame
would like to take a visit through this
famed French Gothic religious struc-
ture. One of the high points on the
tour is the room beyond the sacristy in
the west wing of the transcept, which
serves as a repository for several relics,
particularly of the early church in
America. Here visitors can see an in-


* ’»s4»4'
i
t


I
Vol. 9 • No. 4
15
laid wooden crozier used by Archbishop
John Carroll of Baltimore, first United
States bishop, chalices and ciboria of
former Catholic war chaplains, and
croziers, rings and crosses of many
American pioneer bishops.
In this room we also see two gifts
from Napoleon III and the Empress
Eugenie of France, a gold monstrance
and a crucifix.
The room also contains a number
of precious vestments, a lamp used by
early Christians in the catacombs, a
pewter chalice used in France during
the Reign of Terror when precious
vessels were being destroyed by mobs,
and an amice worn by the Cure of Ars,
St. Jean Baptiste Marie Vianney.
One of the side chapels to the right
of the high altar may intrigue us more
than anything else. Here, enclosed in
a glass altar, we see the wax figure
of a young girl representing St. Severa,
a third century Christian martyr. A
small, velvet-covered box beneath the
figure’s head contains the few bones
of the saint unearthed in Italy over
200 years ago.
Several relics of early Christian mar-
tyrs also rest in the bronze frame of the
high altar, which came to Notre Dame
in 1876 after being exhibited at the
Centennial Exposition in Philadelphia.
Fashioned in the studios of Froc-Robert
in Paris, the altar had previously served
a church in Beavais, France.
The Lady’s Chapel, located behind
the sanctuary, calls for a long pause on
our tour. Beneath a niche holding a
statue of the Blessed Virgin flooded in
blue light stands the Bernini Altar.
Probably, a pupil of Bernini, rather
than the master himself, fashioned the
gilded baroque altar, believed to be the
only example of Bernini’s school of art
in the country. It has 30 hand-carved,
gold-leafed candlesticks and contains a
piece of a wooden table which St.
Peter used as a portable altar during
the first century. The altar -had been
in Rome for about 300 years until it
was brought to Notre Dame in 1886.
Besides the Bernini altar, there are
ten additional altars in side chapels
about the main sanctuary, as well as 20
altars in the basement chapel, which
serves for parish Masses during the
school year when student services oc-
cupy the upstairs. On weekdays Notre
Dame priests from Corby Hall cele-
brate between 30 and 40 Masses on
these altars. The body of Orestes A.
Brownson, nineteenth century philoso-
pher and Catholic convert, rests be-
neath the floor of the basement chapel.
Graduating seniors attend class Mass in Sacred Heart Church.
In addition to the Main Altar, there are 30 other altars in the Church.
(Below) Holy Communion is distributed to students.
16
Notre Dame
The frescoes in the main portion of
the church are the work of Luigi Gre-
gori, noted court artist for the Vatican,
who came over from Rome at the bid-
ding of the Rev. Edward Sorin, G.S.C.,
O	3	J
Notre Dame founder, to do the job. He
stayed at the University from 1873 to
1890, painting frescoes in the church
and other campus buildings. Notre
Dame’s art department centered
around Gregori during his stay.
The church’s 42 stained glass win-
dows are the real thing, not products
of modem synthetic methods of pro-
ducing stained glass. They were made
under the supervision of the Carmelite
nuns of LeMans, France, and installed
in 1873. They depict saints, martyrs
and Biblical scenes in 114 life-size pic-
tures and 106 small ones.
Sacred Heart Church is almost 300
feet long and seats 1,200 in the main
body of the building. Its organ, located
in the choir loft in the rear of the
church, was added in 1875 at a cost of
$6,000. It has 2,041 separate pipes
reaching 40 feet to the top of the
building. The steeple houses a six-ton
bell with 23 chimes, one of the largest
in the country.
The church took 20 years to build,
beginning in 1868 when workmen start-
ed digging the foundation. University
officials, headed by Father Sorin, saw
that the existing church had become
too small for the student body. An
architect, Patrick C. Keely, submitted
blueprints for a $100,000 baroque edi-
fice, but Father Sorin scrapped these
plans, insisting that the church couldn’t
be built for more than $50,000 since
the University had only $8,000 on hand
at the time.
No one is sure who drafted the plans
for the church as it stands today, but
probably many had a hand in it. A
Brother Charles, G.S.C., might have
been responsible for much of the de-
sign. It was he who styled the steeple,
added in 1893.
The archbishop of Cincinnati and
five bishops blessed the cornerstone
in May, 1871. Bricks which went
into the construction were made from
marl surrounding the campus lakes
and baked in kilns operated by the
brothers at Notre Dame. By 1875 a
large part of the church was ready for
use and Father Alexis Granger, C.S.C.,
for many years prefect of religion at
Notre Dame and aide to Father Sorin,
offered the first Mass in the new
church.
The building continued to take
o
shape, with Our Lady’s chapel being
added in 1886. By 1888 the church
was virtually completed and the
Bishop of Fort Wayne dedicated the
new edifice to the Sacred Heart of
Jesus. Father Sorin marked his golden
jubilee as a priest that year, and it
must have been a particularly happy
one, because the expense of erecting
the church was paid by this time.
In 1923 the Memorial Door on the
east side of the building was added to
o
commemorate 40 Notre Dame men
who had died in World War I. After
World War II the names of 334 more
Notre Dame war dead were inscribed
on a plaque inside the main entrance.
The University undertook a renova-
tion of the church in 1931. It was the
first since its completion. The anti-
quated lighting system gave way to a
modern one, new plaster filled the
cracks in the walls, and decorators
freshened up the Gregori frescoes. A
new automatic clock, which strikes
every quarter hour, was placed in the
tower.
That was the last time the edifice
was changed, but last fall workers tem-
porarily tore out a portion of the east
wall to bring in Mestrovic’s “Pieta,”
showing the dead Christ in the arms of
His Mother. This large statue now
stands in one of the alcoves to the right
of the sanctuary.
Sacred Heart has been the scene of
a number of historic events since its
completion, including the first Amer-
ican Eucharistic Congress in 1894, and
the transmission of the world’s first
wireless signal, from the church steeple
to nearby St. Mary’s College, in 1899.
At Knute Rockne’s funeral in 1931
crowds jammed the building to witness
the rites, many of them leaders in the
sports world. Five years later, an Ital-
ian cardinal, Eugenio Pacelli, who was
shortly to become Pope Pius XII,
stopped off at Notre Dame on his tour
of the United States and knelt in prayer
before the high altar at Sacred Heart.
But funerals of important people
aren’t rare at Sacred Heart, and visits
by cardinals to the campus have be-
come almost commonplace through the
years.
It isn’t these almost commonplace
events which really matter. When
Father Sorin started building Sacred
Heart 88 years ago he had in mind one
prime objective: provision for the spir-
itual needs of those who make up a
growing university. His Church of the
Sacred Heart has realized this aim.
The Lady’s
Chapel is
located in
Church
sanctuary.
The Church
contains many
precious vessels
and relics.
Memorial
Door, honor-
ing N.D. Men
killed in war.
3
4
*
“Pieta,
large statue,
sculptured by
Professor
Mestrovic.

■ >
IL?


nf ilje director
Dear Sir:
years will
increase in
according to some impressive pre-
and privately-supported universities
increase will be felt most urgently
their part there is a certain
SO
enrollment is sure to be at least 100% and may,
dictions, run as high as 400%. State-supported
must take care of this increase. I suppose the
first by tax-supported institutions, because on
of
As
with two purposes:
1.
2
our various departments.
and
To increase salaries of teachers
we offer to
Thus,
Towards these ends
their responses.
■Notre 33 ante, ^fnbiamx

The urgent problem for universities and colleges in the next twenty
be that of retaining and building up their teaching staff. The over-all
primary obligation to make higher education available to all qualified high school
graduates.
fO
This means that tax-supported schools will have to increase substantially
their teaching staffs (unless, which is hardly likely, television sufficiently
multiplies the effectiveness of the present teachers). In order to do this, they
will have to attract more teachers, even those on the staffs of privately-supported
institutions ; and they will have to bid strongly for the best young products of
graduate schools. This competition between tax-supported and privately-supported
institutions will be, in the long run, all to the good. But it will also be for
the good of this American society as a whole if the two classes of institutions
maintain balance in their development.
it
on
If privately-supported institutions are to get and hold qualified instructors,
will be necessary for
their teaching staffs
them to increase salaries and otherwise to make careers
attractive
For three years, we
the coming years
have been trying to prepare Notre Dame for the emergency
one step, we have established a Faculty Development Fund
To attract outstanding, distinguished scholars to
financial help
corporations and individuals have been approached for
we experience increasing understanding and encouragement from
Because, two-thirds of educational expenses are met by the fees of students, we
must seek the one-third that is necessary to meet our salary budget.
corporations and individuals on a one-year basis, a professorship, associate profes-
sorship, assistant professorship, or instructorship, if the corporation or individual
will give us one-third of the mean salary in any one of these four categories.
we will name a professorship for a corporation or an individual if $3^000 is given.
We will name an associate professorship if $2,500 -is donated; an assistant pro-
fessorship for a contribution of $2,000 and an instructorship for a gift of $1,600.
We feel that if this aid from many corporations grows sufficiently to take care
of the one-third annual deficit in the salary payroll of our teaching staff, the
University will be able, because of auxiliary operations and interest received on
endowment funds, to offer to promising prospective needy students scholarship aid.
In other words, if we have a potential enrollment in 1957 of 6,000 students,
and can admit only 1,500, those we select can be the best, even if we must offer a
number of full or partial scholarships to those in need.
It is our opinion, that corporations, by strengthening the University’s position
as to its teaching staff and by enabling it to select first-class students, will
best aid the University.
It is understood that a corporation will make its gift to us on an annual basis,
without any legal or moral implication, for the years afterwards. Naturally, we hope
that the corporation will want to continue, but we understand that commitments as
to the future are not likely on the part of any corporation. But we have confidence,
because of the soundness of our plan that we will be able to win future corporation
support.
As a corporation establishes on an annual basis one of the four gifts suggested,
we intend to publicize the name of the corporation and, if the corporation wishes,
the name of the particular professor, associate professor, assistant professor,
or instructor who is to be aided.
If corporations will decide to aid Notre Dame according to this plan,
it will be giving the University the greatest possible assistance at the lowest
cost. Scholarships have been extremely beneficial, especially those which take
care of the student’s expenses, plus a gift to the educational institution itself.
But for the next ten or fifteen years when large numbers of young men and women
will be seeking admission to the educational institutions, it appears that the
paramount problem for the institutions will be to continue to offer excellent
teaching. If a corporation gives a boy $1,500 and the institution $500, it is
costing the corporation $2,000 to aid the institution itself by $500 whereas a
gift of $2,000 is a complete and direct gift to the educational institution.
A professorship especially in science or engineering is important to the
University and to the corporation, for relationships may be established between
the two that can be advantageous in interesting promising graduates of Notre Dame
as corporation employees. A professorship in Liberal Arts, the College of Commerce,
or even in the College of Law, has long-range advantages. For the social environment
in which all corporations carry on their business, is influenced by columnists,
editorial writers, newscasters on radio and television, by lawyers, young business-
men, and journalists. Competence in these fields is partly assured by providing
teaching salaries comparable to those offered in the sciences and engineering.
For the philosophy of the teachers is affected by the sense of values that Govern-
ment and corporations manifest in the aid that they give.
If there is any other information which we can provide at Notre Dame which
might be helpful to you, please let us know.
Sincerely,
(Rev.) John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.
Director
University of Notre Dame Foundation