u
J tunes E. Murphy
President’s Page
5
6
8
Kenneth Murphy
The 1929 Class Survey
10
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
The Foundation of Notre Dame
12
Today and Tomorrow
16
The March Is On
Ingenious Engineers
17
Marian Year Observance
18
• 1954
. 15
/He	/C^tAbtie Qhtwne —




1


A
His Eminence Samuel Cardinal Stritch, Archbishop of Chicago, presided
at the opening of the Vocation Institute. More than 2,000 priests,
Brothers and Sisters assembled at the Grotto after a candlelight procession.
The event was a Marian Year feature on campus. See story on page 18.
VOL 7
NO. 3








Curriculum Changes Adopted As
Result of Special Study Report
By JAMES
E. MURPHY


Rev.
Charles
Sheedy, C.S.C., is Dean of
the A.B. College. He has received degrees
from Notre Dame, Catholic U., and Pitt.

The University of Notre Dame has
begun a new liberal arts curriculum
which became effective with the cur-
rent freshman class. The new plan of
studies for the Bachelor of Arts degree
constitutes the first major curriculum
change in the University’s College of
Arts and Letters in more than thirty
years. Installation of the program
comes less than a year after the dedica-
tion of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Lib-
eral and Fine Arts.
“Notre Dame has always regarded
its College of Arts and Letters as the
heart of the University,” stated the
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
president. “The University is fortunate
in having splendid facilities and a fine
faculty to implement the new curricu-
lum. It is our conviction that this cur-
riculum will advance the students’ in-
tellectual maturity and their interior
development as men of intelligence and
integrity,” he said.
The new liberal arts curriculum dif-
fers substantially from the series of
courses previously offered. It is charac-
terized by a compression of courses and
activities and the collaboration of in-
structors of varying specialties in deal-
ing with the students’ problems.
Among the program’s chief features
are a required course in mathematics
in the freshman year as well as an in-
tensive foreign language course taught
six days a week in the first year. For-
merly, students had the option of tak-
ing mathematics or one of several na-
tural sciences as freshmen. They will
now take mathematics in their first year
plus a natural science the following
year. The intensive one-year language
course replaces courses formerly taught
over a two-year period. Students will
have a choice of eight classical and
modem languages.
Under the new program the fresh-
man English and speech courses will be
merged with a view to developing artic-
ulateness both in the students’ writing
and oral presentation. Another major
change is the establishment of a sopho-
more social science course replacing
courses in economics, sociology and po-
litical science formerly taught separate-
ly in the sophomore and junior years.
While the sophomore English course

will be devoted to the study of litera-
ture, a seminar on the masterworks in
all the areas of knowledge will be re-
quired of all juniors in the new curricu-
lum. Third-year students formerly were
permitted to elect two specialized
courses in literary forms such as poetry,
the essay and the short story.
The new curriculum also provides
for the study of philosophy and theol-
ogy alternately throughout the under-
graduate’s four years. They have been
included in the program not only as
areas of knowledge profoundly impor-
tant in themselves but also as integrat-
ing influences furnishing the liberally
disciplined mind with certain govern-
ing principles for the unification of
knowledge and life.
As in former years, European and
American history will be required sub-
jects for Notre Dame liberal arts stu-
dents in their freshman and sophomore
years. Physical education courses will
no longer be required of students who
are enrolled in one of the three campus
ROTC programs and who have passed
certain physical proficiency tests.
Students will take five courses each
semester instead of six, it was pointed
out by the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy,
C.S.C., dean of the College. A compre-
hensive examination covering all pre-
2
Notre Dame
vious work will be given at the end of
the sophomore year, he said, and a sen-
ior essay will be a requirement for
graduation. Father Sheedy said that
the senior essay will consist of an exer-
cise in inquiry-in-depth appropriate to
the student’s field of concentration. In
the past, students majoring in certain
subjects were required to write a thesis
while others took senior comprehensive
examinations.
In addition to the traditional fifteen
departmental majors, Father Sheedy
said that new interdepartmental majors
will be offered in such areas as Chris-
tian Culture, Communications, Public
and Foreign Service and Teacher
Training.
The new Notre Dame liberal arts
curriculum evolved in part from a self-
study of the College of Arts and Letters
made possible by a $23,600 grant from
the Ford Foundation’s Fund for the
Advancement of Education. Many of
the recommendations embodied in the
report of The Committee on Self-
Study, The Curriculum of a Catholic
Liberal College, have been adopted and
included in the new liberal arts pro-
gram.
The Committee’s research included
many interviews with faculty members,
outside consultants and students, sur-
veys, panel discussions and visits to
other educational institutions. The re-
search was directed by Dr. Vincent E.
Smith of the Notre Dame faculty. He
was assisted by the Rev. Edward
O’Connor, C.S.C., and Dr. Herbert L.
Johnston, both faculty members.
0^

The College of Arts and Letters is housed in the new O’Shaughnessy Hall
of Liberal and Fine Arts. This impressive building is the gift of Mr. and
Mrs. I. A. O’Shaughnessy of St. Paul, Minn., and
it was dedicated last year.
Vol. 7 • No. 3	3



How can a university educate a boy to become a good
man? A more basic question is: What is a good man?
Our answer to this question is that a man is good only if
he perfects those powers that make him a man and differ-
entiate him from an animal. The specifically human pow-
ers are those of his soul: the power to know the truth and
the power to choose freely what is good in life.
As a university, our specific task is to train the mind in
its quest for truth. We do not conceive of this task merely
as one of filling the mind with information, to make the
young man an animated encyclopedia. Rather, we believe
that the perfecting of the mind is bound up in four basic
abilities—1) to think clearly, 2) to communicate one’s
thoughts effectively by word and writing, 3) to make valid
judgments in conflicting matters, and 4) to evaluate clearly
what is important and unimportant in fife. These abilities
are not easily achieved. They are the result of constant
exercise and training. We think that this training can be
done most effectively by confronting the young man with
the basic issues in life, by helping him to reach serious
convictions regarding a basic set of absolute truths and
values. We are not satisfied if he is only able to parrot the
right answers. He must have thought through the answers,
right and wrong, and be able to give intelligent reasons for
accepting certain answers and rejecting others.
Some educators would say that the work of the uni-
versity stops here with the training of the mind. We think
differently, because Notre Dame is not merely a place
where a boy attends class and exercises his mind with
studies. Our students live at Notre Dame. We stand in the
place of their parents for four years. Consequently, we
give much additional attention to the important educative
work of training the will.
You may call it moral training, character guidance, or
anything else you will. There is perhaps no more difficult
kind of training, as all parents know. And yet, this for-
mation of good moral habits and solid character is an essen-
tial element in the good man we are trying to produce.
I might say from the outset that we think God is all-
important in this formation. We don’t apologize for giving
Him a key part in the process. Someone has described
character as the habitual choice of the right way of acting
through life. We are willing to admit that there are many
times in life, times of crisis, when it does not suffice to
know the right thing to do. Doing it is the rub, as Shake-
speare says. We have a chapel in every residence hall, with
regular services morning and evening for the Catholic boys.
We encourage all the boys to develop the habit of stopping
in for a prayer, to get the help necessary for the extra push.
We have a priest living on every floor of every residence
hall, for a word of advice when needed.
We have discipline, too, because we do not know how
to condition the will except by exercising it to do the right
thing, even when it is not the easiest course of action.
The result of this training of both mind and will might
be best described as a good man, who is good both in mind
and will, because he knows what God expects of Him in
life and he has sufficient character to follow God’s will. We
hope that the finished product will be good in both intel-
ligence and character, because a man is not truly good
unless he is trained to excellence in both mind and heart.
The world has had its fill of brilliant men who are im-
moral, and good men who are stupid. St. Thomas has
summarized all of this by saying that only three pursuits
are worth our effort in life—to know the right things to
love, the right things to hope for, the right things to do.
We hope that the spirit of Notre Dame equips our students
to discern these right things to love and hope for, and
to do them through life.
President,
University of Notre Dame
4
Notre Dame
|	Jaime Saenz of Cali, Colombia, grad-
i	uating senior in the Department of
|	Architecture, was named prize winner
'	for his design of a three-level home by
i	the Indianapolis Home Show Architec-
(	tural Competition Committee. The
f	contest is held annually to create in-
I	terest in and further the development
of small-home design. The prize of
$500 was given to Saenz for “a design
of simplicity and directness — remark-
ably free from cliches.”
The competition centered around
entries from 189 people representing
i 22 states and 24 colleges and universi-
I ties in addition to 40 professional archi-
tects. Besides the cash prize, Saenz’s
design will be considered for construe-
tion as the model home and center of
attraction at the Indianapolis Home
Show next year. His sketch will also be
featured in a book of 50 designs select-
ed from the annual competition.
Jaime Saenz entered Notre Dame’s
architectural school in 1949. After he
became interested in attending the Uni-
versity, Jaime studied the English lan-
guage for three years in preparatory
school to help him overcome the diffi-
culties involved in attending school in
a foreign country. He was not only an
outstanding student but also was a
monogram winner of the University’s
tennis team in 1951. He plans to join
an architectural firm in Bogota, capital
of Colombia, and is particularly inter-
ested in city planning.
His prize-winning house is of a split-
level design consisting of three bed-
rooms and a bath on the upper level,
an entrance hall, dining room, kitchen
and utility on the intermediate level,
and living room and terrace on the
lower level.
The Department of Architecture was
established at Notre Dame in 1898 and
it presents a well-rounded program in
all branches of architecture while striv-
ing to train students for positions with
leading architects, building engineers
and for the independent practice of
architecture.
Vol. 7 • No. 3	5

*
*
manuscnp
11^1^^)111
v*^*-V <***“•

Notre Dame Archives
Receive Copies of
Important Letters
Many microfilm copies of valuable
documents on the history of the Catho-
lic Church in the United States will
soon be available to scholars at the
Universitv. According to a recent an-
nouncement by the Rev. Thomas T.
McAvoy, C.S.C., University archivist
and head of the History Department,
these documents include letters from
American Catholic bishops and mis-
sionaries of the nineteenth century to
European mission societies which sup-
ported them in this country.
Father McAvoy stated that these let-
ters form an indispensable source of the
Church’s history in this country. In-
cluded are letters by Archbishop John
Hughes of New York, Bishop John
England of Charleston, South Caro-
lina, and the Rev. Francis Pierz, a mis-
sionary who labored with the Indians
of Michigan and Minnesota. Also in-
cluded in the collection is correspond-
ence from the Rev. Stephen T. Badin,
the first Catholic priest ordained in the
United States, and the Rev. Edward F.
Sorin, C.S.C., founder and first presi-
dent of Notre Dame.
Father McAvoy began collecting
these letters in Europe in 1951. They
have been written to mission societies
in France, Germany, Austria, Rome,
present-day Yugoslavia and Ireland.
The project was aided considerably by
research done in Europe in 1953 by
Joseph Gregorich of Oak Park, Ill. He
assisted Father McAvoy while collect-
ing material for his biography of the
Most Rev. Frederick Baraga, first bish-
op of Marquette, Mich.
Since the collection is currently being
used in the preparation of the cause
for Bishop Baraga’s beatification, it has
been named the Bishop Frederick Ba-
raga Collection. It is hoped that the
microfilm collection eventually will be
available for hundreds of similar studies
of the heroes of the American Catholic
missions of the nineteenth century. The
project has been broadened to include
all documents dealing with American
missionaries which were available in
European archives and the collection
will be extended as means and material
continue to be made available for copy-
ing. According to Father McAvoy, the
value of this collection can best be un-
derstood by comparing it with the fa-
mous “Jesuit Relations” of Jesuit mis-
sionaries during the 17th and 18th cen-
turies in the Great Lakes area. The

Relations has long been the chief
source for the histories of the American
Indians. While the new Baraga collec-
tion tells of the Indians and the fron-
tier, it also documents the work of the
missionaries among the newly-arrived
immigrants along the eastern seaboard
and later in the Midwest.
There is scarcely a religious com-
munity or Catholic charitable or edu-
cational institution that did not apply
to these European missionary organiza-
tions for some aid and in so doing
placed before them the story and the
description of their missions and their
institutions in this country, Father Mc-
Avoy pointed out. Some of these let-
ters have been published in Europe,
but a few copies of the publication
were received in this country. More
frequently, only parts of the letters
were published and thousands were
never published at all.
In collecting these microfilm copies,
ri
■	?• .vu1«' /
6
Notre Dame

y

‘ S , ter \ w

Notre Dame is carrying on the pioneer
work of the late James Farnham Ed-
wards, librarian of the University until
his death in 1911. In the 1880’s Ed-
wards saw the need for preserving the
records of the 'Catholic Church in the
United States in a national archives.
He enjoyed the cooperation of several
prelates, notably Archbishops William
H. Elder of Cincinnati and Francis
Janssens of New Orleans. He collected
several thousand items and called it
the Catholic Archives of America.
While lack of funds and his duties as
librarian kept Edwards from realizing
his dream in full, he must be credited
with preserving many important letters
and documents in the Notre Dame Li-
brary for a later generation of histo-
rians.
Although thousands of feet of micro-
film have already been received in the
Notre Dame archives, much work must
be done before the materials can be
made generally available to scholars.
Present plans call for the preparation
of a catalogue of the contents of the
rolls of films and a calendar of the let-
ters which will require the work of
many scholars. In the meantime, the
collection continues to grow and to
offer a new and interesting challenge
to the student of American history and
the role the Catholic Church has
played in the exploration and develop-
ment of a new nation.
ifhmimriMni
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., is University archivist and head of the
History Department. He will have charge of the microfilm collection which
includes many valuable papers on Catholic Church history in the U. S.
Benedictine Monks Contribute Scholarly Documents
New areas of research in Biblical science, liturgy and
the history of theology will be opened to scholars at the
University of Notre Dame with the acquisition of a mi-
crofilm copy of Vetus Latina, the Old Latin Bible wide-
ly used by the Church prior to St. Jerome’s famous
translation in the fourth century.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., president
of Notre Dame, has announced the arrival of the micro-
film from the Archabbey of Beuron in Germany. Bene-
dictine monks there, under the direction of the Rev.
Bonifatius Fischer, O.S.B., have completed the catalog-
ing of nearly 500,000 quotations from the manuscripts of
the most ancient Latin Bible as well as Biblical passages
quoted in the writings of the Church Fathers in the
first centuries of the Christian era.
“The Archabbey of Beuron has made a microfilm
negative of this collection available to Notre Dame part-
ly because of the uncertain political and military situa-
tion in Europe,” Father Hesburgh said. “The Benedic-
tine monks also are anxious that scholars in this coun-
try have the benefit of their research to date since it
will be many years before their complete findings be-
come available in printed form. Notre Dame deems it a
privilege to share in this important scholarly work.”
The Archabbey of Beuron also retains two sets of the
positive prints. The valuable negative from which these
prints were made remains the property of the Archabbey
but it will be housed for safekeeping at Notre Dame.
At the outset, Notre Dame will use the Vetus Latina
collection primarily for its liturgical and theological
value, according to the Rev. Michael A. Mathis, G.S.G..
director of the University’s Liturgy Program.
The Vetus Latina opens new perspectives in the
fields of Biblical science, liturgy, history of theology, the-
ological terminology, exegesis and philology. In philol-
ogy this collection will be especially valuable in the study
of Christian Latinity, Liturgical Latin and the Romance
languages. It will be of special usefulness in tracing not
only the sources, but also the parallel passages of a given
text in the Patristic writings. In time, it will become in-
dispensable to theologians, students of the liturgy, his-
torians, philologists and librarians.

Vol. 7 • No. 3	7
By KENNETH MURPHY
The wife of a Notre Dame commerce
professor has testified that she poisoned
her husband. Thanks to an excellent
job on the part of the defendant’s two
lawyers, though, she has been ac-
quitted.
Scandal on the campus? No, just the
Law School’s new Practice Court in
action.
Dean Joseph O’Meara, Jr., and Pro-
fessor Edward F. Barrett in searching
for a way to assist the young lawyer in
trying his first case, hit upon the idea
of the Practice Court, which is entirely
separate and differs in most respects
from the Moot Court.
Whereas participation in the Moot
Court is completely voluntary and open
only to juniors in the College of Law,
the Practice Court is conducted by
members of the senior class and is a
prerequisite for graduation.
The students team up in pairs, two
8 Notre Dame
for the plaintiff and two for the defen-
dant, so that from October to the end
of the first semester in January, each
one of the 48 members of the 1954
senior class got his baptism of court-
room fire.
Moot Court is based entirely upon
appellate cases that have been heard
before state and federal courts. Thanks
to the time and effort of Professor Bar-
rett, however, the cases given to the
seniors in the Practice Court were “raw
meat”—actual cases modified by Pro-
fessor Barrett so that each one was be-
ing tried for the first time.
Professor Barrett, in order to save
time on the trial Saturday, disposes of
the motions on the legal points in-
volved in each case on Thursday and
Friday afternoon. He also picked the
juries — which consisted entirely of
freshmen — and prepared the state-
ments of the witnesses.
One heartening aspect of the whole
experiment has been the enthusiasm
displayed by the jurors. Even on Sat-
urdays of home football games, when
time began to run short and there was
a possibility that they might miss the
kickoff, freshmen jurors took their time
about coming back with a verdict.
Almost 90 witnesses testified in Prac-
tice Court last Fall, including a police
officer from South Bend who acted as
a ballistics expert in a murder case, and
a banker who appeared to give testi-
mony on a financial transaction. Even
some of the pre-med students at the
University volunteered their services to
gain the courtroom experience they
may some day need. A number of at-
torneys from neighboring South Bend
have also become quite interested in
the new court and future lawyers in
particular.
Cases used were far from simple and


were drawn from many fields. There
was one involving slander, where a man
said that the family butler stole his
wife’s ring. Another concerned a fel-
low killed in the prizefight ring — his
claimants charged deliberate man-
slaughter. One of Professor Barrett’s
toughest tasks was balancing these cases
so that each side would have a 50-50
chance of winning.
Associate Judge for the New York
State Court of Appeals, Charles S. Des-
mond, sat in on a session of the Court.
Commenting afterwards on the close
approach to reality, he remarked, “The
illusion created was terrific. Those peo-
ple sounded as if they really were in an
auto accident.”
One man who has been instrumental
in the success of the experiment is the
Honorable Luther M. Swygert, who re-
ceived his law degree, magna cum
laude, from Notre Dame in 1927.
Judge Swygert, after carrying out his
duties as U. S. Judge of the Northern
District of Indiana each week, sacri-
ficed personal time to come down to
Notre Dame on Saturdays and give the
students the benefit of his many years’
experience in court-room procedure.
The Judge was bom and raised on a
farm near Akron, Indiana, and worked
at the power house and on the Lawyer
magazine while a student at the Uni-
versity. He jokingly recalls that he also
went out for football but that unfortu-
nately the equipment manager couldn’t
find a pair of football shoes big enough
to fit him.
He practiced law and dabbled in pol-
itics after graduation. In 1934 Judge
Swygert became Assistant U. S. District
Attorney of Northern Indiana, and
when Judge Thomas W. Slick resigned
as U. S. Judge of the Northern District
of Indiana in 1943, Senator Van Nuys
recommended Swygert’s appointment
to President Roosevelt. Backed by the
endorsement of many prominent Indi-
ana attorneys, he became the first In-
diana democratic federal judge in 50
years.
Judge Swygert came to the campus
on the three Saturday mornings preced-
ing the initial trial court in October
and instructed the entire class in an at-
tempt to coordinate the text with actu-
al cases. The process was similar to a
physics or chemistry lab in this respect,
with the students first learning by the
lecture method and then discovering
the facts for themselves through actual
experience.
The Judge has been most patient.
Federal Judge Luther M. Swygert, ND
’27, presided at practice court sessions.
After the trials got underway, he came
down off the bench on several occasions
to emphasize a point of courtroom pro-
cedure to the participants. As Professor-
Barrett points out: “He is one of the
finest gentlemen I have ever met. He
seems to be able to sympathize with the
struggles of a person trying a case for
the first time.”
While the jury was out deliberating,
Judge Swygert discussed the points of
each case with the class. An even more
The oldest Catholic law school in the U. S. is housed in a 3-story huilding at the main
entrance of the Notre Dame campus. The present structure was dedicated in 1930.
detailed instruction followed, for after
the verdict was in, the students who
acted as the lawyers met with Judge
Swygert, Dean O’Meara and Professor
Barrett for lunch. Here a private cri-
tique was held on what was wrong and
what was good with the trial.
As for the students committing a few
errors in the course of a trial, Dean
O’Meara said: “This is not an exhibi-
tion, like a college debate. This is an
actual class. They make boners, sure,
but they are learning. It is far better
that they make mistakes now than
after they leave school.”
Another senior law class will have an
opportunity this year to try their first
case in Practice Court which promises
to be an integral part of the Law Col-
lege’s curriculum,
o
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana. Entered as sec-
ond class matter May 10, 1948,
at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August
24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, ’37,
Managing Editor
Vol. 7 No. 3	Fall, 1954
Vol. 7 • No. 3	9

Project of ’29 Class Indicates
Great Potential Source
Of Progress for Notre Dame
By REV. THEODORE M. HESBURGH, C.S.C.,
President, University of Notre Dame
And the results are not in any way
valid as commitments or assurances.
But from the 4,000 Questionnaires
sent out to all the alumni graduated in
1929 and all the Classes before 1929,
the Glass was able to present to the
University in June some very interest-
ing and stimulating results, which com-
prise a most significant contribution to
the work of the Notre Dame Founda-
tion.
I.
Notre Dame will receive in present
planning almost a million dollars from
the estates of fifty alumni. Similar
thoughtfulness could multiply future
benefits.
The Class of 1929 was not impressed
with its possibilities of raising an im-
posing additional Glass Fund for the
University on the occasion of its Silver
Jubilee. But the Glass committee
wished to commemorate the anniver-
sary with some significant contribution.
The Foundation and Alumni offices, in
discussing the situation, pointed out the
long-range program of the University.
This included the untouched field of
Wills and Bequests — estate planning.
Questions revealed that the Univer-
sity had no knowledge of its possible
future benefactions, and only the his-
torical fact that very few alumni or
friends had remembered Notre Dame
in their estates. Here, the Class Com-
mittee agreed, was a field in which an
objective approach, without the embar-
rassing implications that might attend
a University survey of the same nature,
could be of great value.
The University asked that the survey
be modified, so that no possible embar-
rassment could follow for any alumnus.
The result was a Questionnaire, which
was answered anonymously, and simply
asked:
I.	Does your present Estate Planning
include Notre Dame? In your Will?
In insurance?
II.	Do you intend to include Notre
Dame in your Estate Plan?
III.	Does anyone in your family
have Notre Dame in his (her) Estate
Plan?
IV.	(Optional) The present provi-
sion will bring to the University about
$	, subject to any subse-
quent changes.
This was not a scientific survey.
First of all the disappointing fact
that only 286 alumni replied at all, in-
dicating that the field was as unfamiliar
in the University program as the Foun-
dation Office had concluded.
However, this Questionnaire in it-
self was significant, as indicated in the
following excerpts from replies:
“Have never thought of it, till now.”
“Congratulations on the excellent
project.”
“You are germinating an idea.”
o	o
“Good idea.” (In five separate in-
stances. )
Of the 286 replying, only fifty-two
(52) indicated any present provision.
Two hundred thirty-four indicated no
present provision.
II.
Of the two hundred eighty-six (286)
replying, one hundred and eight (108)
indicated an intention of including
Notre Dame in their Estate Plan, al-
most double the number already hav-
ing such provision.
10
Notre Dame
III.
Eleven (11) indicated some present
family provision for Notre Dame in es-
tate planning, other than their own.
IV.
It was under this purely optional
heading of anticipated benefits that the
Class and the Foundation Office re-
ceived the greatest stimulus from the
Questionnaire.
While the amounts indicated are of
course anonymous, and have no legal
status, the Class of 1929 and the Foun-
dation Office believe that because of
the nature of the replies, and the cross-
section of amounts, the estimates have
sufficient validity to point out the tre-
mendous implication to Notre Dame’s
future, if alumni generally become con-
scious of the University as a proper
part of Estate Plans.
Probably the most effective story lies
in the tabulation of indicated amounts:
$100—1	$8000—1
200—1	10000—4
500—4	15000—3
600—1	20000—1
1000—9	25000—3
2000—1	45000—1
2500—4	50000—1
4000—1	100000—2
5000—10	150000—1
	175000—1
and an excerpt from a reply,
“ . . . could be $100,000 if I
survive •my family.”
The varying gifts imply the several
motives which were advanced for in-
cluding Notre Dame in your Estate
Plan.
1.	Loyalty, remembrance, does not
require an amount. The Notre Dame
heart can be as big in three figures as
o	o
in six.
2.	A second suggestion, more deter-
mining, is that the annual gift to the
Alumni Fund may be perpetuated in
the estate by a capital sum which will
return approximately the amount of the
annual gift, when invested, e.g. The
annual $25 contributor, by leaving $500
to Notre Dame, to be invested in its
endowment, is, in effect, perpetuating
his annual $25 gift, on the basis of a
5% return.
3.	A third suggestion was, of course,
the opportunity to do something for the
University’s program which requires a
larger capital amount than can be
taken from income or resources while
living. Insurance or bequest can fre-
quently accomplish something of this
nature, with gratifying memorial possi-
bilities.
4.	Remembrance in the disposition
of important possessions other than
money, which can benefit the Univer-
sity greatly, is another possibility, e.g.
The valuable collection of first editions
in the personal library of the late
Eugene McBride, T6, has added sub-
stantially to the University library.
5.	Other institutions have profited
lastingly from still another method of
Estate Plan which does not affect the
primary wishes of the testator — this is
the naming of the University as residu-
ary legatee, the beneficiary of whatever
may be left after immediate needs have
been covered.
Conclusion
This survey, based on the Question-
naire of the Class of 1929, does not, in
itself, constitute a program for the de-
velopment of Estate Plans which will
more frequently include Notre Dame
and its long range program.
But without a doubt, the generous
contribution of the Silver Jubilee Class
in making this pioneering study has
brought the University, the Founda-
tion, and the several thousand alumni
the survey included, closer to the signif-
icance of thoughtful provision foi'
Notre Dame in the estates of alumni
and friends.
The great majority of our alunmi are
young, and have perhaps not yet
thought of Estate Plans, and certainly
many are possessed of the growing and
demanding families which make the in-
clusion of any outside beneficiary in an
Estate seem at the moment mythical
indeed.
It is a hopeful development for the
future of Notre Dame, in which most
of us can share, and in which all of us
are interested. And this universal sig-
nificance of course multiplies the serv-
ice which the Class of 1929 has ren-
dered to its Alma Mater.
Vol. 7 • No. 3
The FOUNDATION
State Governors, City Chairmen and other individuals.
Notre Dame has been particularly
fortunate in receiving ever-increasing
support from alumni and non-alumni
friends in recent years. Generous bene-
factors include the late Mr. E. M.
Morris of South Bend who with Mrs.
Morris provided funds for the Morris
Inn; the late Mr. and Mrs. Fred
Fisher, Detroit, Mich., donors of
Fisher Residence Hall; Mr. and Mrs.
I. A. O’Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minn.,
who contributed $2,300,000 for the
O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and
Fine Arts; Mr. and Mrs. Joseph A.
LaFortune’s gift for the LaFortune
Student Center; Mr. and Mrs. Frank
J. Lewis, Chicago, Ill., providers of
the Lewis Bus Shelter; Mr. and Mrs.
Romy Hammes, Kankakee, Ill., do-
nors of the Hammes Shopping Center;
Mr. Thomas W. Pangbom and Mr.
John C. Pangbom, Hagerstown, Md.,
who made provision for the new (to be
erected) $800,000 Pangbom Residence
Hall; and many thousands of alumni
and other friends who have contrib-
uted to the recent $9,000,000 campus
expansion program.
The University of Notre Dame
Foundation is well aware that the
loyalty and support of alumni and
non-alumni antedates by many years
the advent of the Foundation in 1947.
However, as the University moved into
a post-war development period, it was
apparent that a new agency within the
administration was needed to co-or-
dinate and service existing and new
channels for University support. The
Notre Dame Foundation was organized
in 1947 to effect a long-range program
of encouraging financial assistance
from alumni and non-alumni friends,
corporations and charitable founda-
tions.
In 1948, the Rev. John J. Cav-
anaugh, C.S.C., then president of No-
tre Dame and now Director of the
Foundation, outlined a $25,000,000
long-range goal over a period of ten
years. Annual giving from alumni and
non-alumni, gifts from corporations,
gifts through bequests and insurance
and outstanding special gifts have all
helped to accelerate the achievement
of Father Cavanaugh’s long-range pro-
gram. The Foundation has benefited
12
Notre Dame
of Notre Dame
. . . Father Cavanaugh Directs Public Relations Program
tremendously from the guidance of the
past National Chairmen., Mr. Harry G.
Hogan, Fort Wayne, Ind., banker, and
the Hon. Frank C. Walker of New
York City. And the infinite number
of hours devoted to the Foundation by
state governors, city chairmen and
committees have been reflected in the
successful attainment of Foundation
objectives.
Notre Dame is anxious to continue
to extend the opportunity of a Notre
Dame education to as many young
men as possible. To keep pace with
increasing enrollment and to supple-
ment the work already being done by
a splendid faculty, Notre Dame is ask-
ing industry to underwrite the Distin-
guished Professors Program whereby
45 outstanding teachers will be added
to the University staff.
Father Cavanaugh has divided the
nation into four districts so that a
greater concentration of efficiency may
be attained in corporation contacts and
alumni giving as well as all phases of
the program. Four Foundation repre-
sentatives have been assigned to these
districts and, in order to acquaint
alumni and friends with the entire
staff including the affiliated depart-
ments of Public Information, Public
Relations and the Placement Office,
the following biographical breakdown
is presented:
Following a most
successful term as
Notre Dame’s 15th
president, 1946-52,
the Rev. John J.
Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
was appointed Di-
rector of the Notre
Dame Foundation
Fr. Cavanaugh in January, 1953.
His presidency was
marked by the beginning of a nine
million dollar construction program
and a furtherance of a great academic
development at the University. Father
Cavanaugh is also a member of the
Provincial Council of the Congrega-
tion of Holy Cross and has been as-
signed for special assistance to the Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., cur-
rent president of Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh entered the Uni-
versify of Notre Dame in 1917 and for
two years served as secretary to the
Rev. John W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
then president of the University. After
graduation from Notre Dame’s Col-
lege of Commerce in 1923, Father
Cavanaugh was employed by the Stu-
debaker Corporation and advanced to
the post of assistant advertising man-
ager when he resigned to study for the
priesthood in the Congregation of Holy
Cross in 1926.
He was ordained in Sacred Heart
Church on the Notre Dame campus in
1931 and received his Licentiate in
Philosophy at Gregorian University,
Rome, Italy, in 1933.
Fr. O’Donnell
Rev. Thomas J.
O’Donnell, C.S.C.,
became assistant to
the director of the
Notre Dame Foun-
dation in January,
1953, after serving
for a year as asso-
ciate editor of the
Catholic Boy mag-
azine.
A native of Chicago, Ill., he entered
the Congregation of Holy Cross in
1936 and graduated from the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame in 1941. Father
O’Donnell was ordained to the priest-
hood in Sacred Heart Church on the
Notre Dame campus in 1945 by Arch-
bishop Amleto Giovanni Cicognani,
Apostolic Delegate to the United
States.
From 1945 to 1946 Father O’Don-
nell was a member of the Mission
Band of the Congregation of Holy
Cross and in 1946 he became a mem-
ber of the faculty of Holy Cross Col-
lege, Washington, D. C. While in
Washington, Father O’Donnell re-
ceived his master’s degree in theatre
arts from Catholic University and for
three years was assistant superior of the
Foreign Mission Seminary.
James E. Arm-
strong serves as as-
sistant director of
the Notre Dame
Foundation and as
executive secretary
of the Notre Dame
Alumni Association.
He received a de-
gree in journalism Mr. Armstrong
from the Univer-
sity in 1925 and became alumni secre-
tary a year later. Mr. Armstrong has
been active in the Foundation pro-
gram since its beginning in 1947.
Known to thousands of Notre Dame
graduates, he is editor of the Alumnus
and Notre Dame magazines, and has
contributed articles to several Catholic
publications. He formerly was vice-
president and director of the American
Alumni Council and president of the
National Catholic Alumni Federation.
Mr. Bowes
Richard Bowes,
formerly of Kansas
City, Mo., is the
new Associate Di-
rector of Public
Relations at Notre
Dame. Dick, a
member of the
1938 Class, will
work closely with
J. Arthur Haley,
Director, as well as with the Founda-
tion staff. He is assigned to Founda-
tion District 2 which includes Illinois,
Missouri, Kansas, Oklahoma, Colo-
rado, New Mexico, Utah, Arizona,
Nevada, and California.
After receiving an A.B. degree from
Notre Dame, Dick attended the Har-
vard Graduate School of Business Ad-
ministration where he was awarded a
master’s degree in 1943.
Before joining the University staff,
Dick was connected with Wilson
Sporting Goods Company in the sales
and advertising department; manager
of the Economics and Marketing Re-
search Department of the Consumers
Cooperative Association; and a part-
ner in Business Machines Distributors.
(continued on page 14)
Vol. 7 • No. 3
13
John Cackley
was appointed a
Foundation staff
member in 1947.
He graduated in
journalism from
Notre Dame in
1937. Prior to ac-
cepting employ-
ment at the Uni-
versity, John was
Mr. Cackley
Field Representative for General Mo-
tors Corp., in Dupont’s Engineering
Department, Vice Consul at the
American Consulate, Marseille, France,
and Deputy State Director in the U. S.
Treasury’s Savings Bonds Division.
During World War II he was sta-
tioned in Africa, Italy and France
with the U. S. Army for 33 months.
Cackley is in charge of editing
production details as Managing
tor of both the Notre Dame
and
Edi-
and
Alumnus magazines.
The Notre Dame
Placement Office,
under the direction
of William R. Doo-
ley, functions as a
service for graduat-
ing seniors and
alumni seeking ad-
vice and counseling
o
Mr. Dooley
in finding employ-
ment. Mr. Dooley
graduated from Notre Dame in 1926
and has been associated with the Uni-
versity staff since 1933. For 16 years
he was assistant alumni secretary and
managing editor of the Alumnus
magazine. He has been Placement Di-
rector since 1950.
Prior to joining the Notre Dame
staff, Mr. Dooley was associated with
the Peoria (Ill.) Journal-Transcript,
publicity and advertising director for
the Northern Indiana Public Service
Co., and engaged in sales promotion
for the Western Clock Co., LaSalle, Ill.
James W. Frick
joined the Founda-
tion staff after
graduating from
Notre Dame’s Col-
lege of Commerce
in 1951. He is a
native of Raleigh,
N. C., and also
served with the
Armed Forces in
Mr. Frick
the Pacific Theatre during World
War II.
Jim will be in charge of District 3
for the Foundation which includes In-
diana, Kentucky, Tennessee, North
Carolina. South Carolina, Georgia,
Mississip i, Florida, Louisiana, Ala-
bama, Arkansas and Texas.
From 1945 to 1947 he was Claims
Examiner for the Employment Secur-
ity Commission. Jim has been prin-
cipally concerned with the personal
solicitation plan of alumni giving and
he has written several articles for the
Notre Dame magazine.
The Department
of Public Relations
began in 1941 un-
der the direction
of J. Arthur Haley.
Among its many
functions are in-
cluded the devel-
oping and main-
taining contacts for Mr. Haley
the University, as-
sisting in the establishment of Presi-
dent’s Committees in various metro-
politan cities and coordinating details
of meetings held semi-annually of the
Lay Trustees and Advisory Councils.
Mr. Haley graduated from Notre
Dame with a B.S. degree in Com-
merce in 1926 and was Business Man-
ager of Athletics until 1941. He at-
tended Officers’ Training School in
1918 and was employed by the Nor-
folk and Western Railroad prior to his
enrollment as a Notre Dame student.
John S. Mac-
Cauley, a graduate
of the 1941 Class,
has recently been
appointed to the
University of Notre
Dame Foundation
staff. He will be
in charge of Dis-
trict 4 consisting of Mr. MacCauley
Maine, New Hamp-
shire, Vermont, New York, Massa-
chusetts, Rhode Island, Connecticut,
Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Ohio,
Delaware, Maryland, West Virginia
and Virginia.
He has had extensive experience in
public relations having maintained his
own firm in metropolitan New York
City. John was coordinator of pub-
licity for the first Loyalty Day parade
in New York. He served as campaign
director for a $250,000 parochial
school gymnasium drive prior to ac-
cepting employment at the University.
As an undergraduate at Notre Dame,
John was a member of the Glee Club
and also was active in the Wranglers.
In • his capacity
as Director of Pub-
lic Information,
James E. Murphy
supervises publicity
of all University
affairs except ath-
letics. He was
graduated from
Notre Dame in
1947.
Mr. Murphy
Prior to assuming his present post,
Mr. Murphy was news editor of the
American Broadcasting Company in
Chicago and also was on the national
public relations staff of the American
Legion. During World War II, he
served with the United States Air
Force. He is a member of the Amer-
ican College Public Relations Associa-
tion. Each year Jim prepares special
radio material for use by alumni clubs
on UND Night,
o
Manager of
Foundation D i s -
trict 1 is Allan J.
Powers, a native of
Richmond, Va.,
and a member of
the 1951 Class. Be-
fore grad u a t i n g
from Notre Dame’s
Arts and Letters
Mr. Powers
College, Allan
served in the U. S. Navy for 37 months
in the Bacteriological Warfare pro-
gram.
He did graduate work in speech and
drama at Columbia University and
was formerly with the sales depart-
ment of Fromm and Sichel, Inc., of
New York City. Two brothers, John
and Tom, are both seniors at the
University.
Allan joined the Foundation staff in
February, 1953, and, in addition to
field contacts, he has also worked
closely with the alumni-indoctrination
program of undergraduates. He will
be responsible for the following states
in District 1: Michigan, Wisconsin,
Iowa, Minnesota, North Dakota, South
Dakota, Nebraska, Wyoming, Mon-
tana, Idaho, Washington and Oregon.
14
Notre Dame

ItlA
Speakers in above group: Dean Janies
E.
Prominent Leaders
McCarthy, Ross Roy, George M. Benson,
E. S. McKay and M. Joseph Meehan. Be-
low: Frank W. Lovejoy, Socony- Vacuum
Oil Company, was on the program.



* I * s
Jr
On Commerce College
Agenda
More than 300 midwest advertising
and marketing specialists attended the
second annual Sales and Advertising
Conference held at the University of
Notre Dame. The theme for this year’s
sessions was “I960—The Key of To-
day’s Planning.”
Seven nationally known speakers
were featured on the agenda including
Ross Roy, president of Ross Roy Inc.,
Detroit, Mich.; George M. Benson, di-
rector of television sales and research
for the Ford Foundation; M. Joseph
Meehan, director of the Office of Busi-
ness Economics, U. S. Department of
Commerce, Washington, D. CE. S.
McKay, special executive consultant
for the General Electric Go., New York
City; Frank G. Japha, founder and ex-
ecutive director of the National Adver-
tising Agency Network, St. Louis, Mo.;
Frank AV. Lovejoy, sales executive with
the Socony-Vacuum Oil Go., New
York City; Burleigh B. Gardner, exec-
utive director of Social Research, Inc.,
Chicago, Ill.
The conference was designed to pre-
sent top-level ideas, techniques and
professional know-how from prominent
leaders in industry and government.
It afforded an opportunity for business-
men to exchange ideas and discover
new ways in which to meet the de-
mands and responsibilities of competi-
tive enterprises. The conference was
helpful to attending Notre Dame stu-
dents who plan to enter a business or
advertising career following graduation.
Mr. Meehan citing the tremendous
growth of American economy in the
past twenty-five years stated that we
“produced and sold more than twice as
many goods and services in 1953 as in
1929.” He was the keynote speaker at
the conference. Production-wise, “the
most striking difference in the Ameri-
can economy during this past quarter-
century is the great increase in the
amount of our resources which we have
found necessary’ to devote to national
security.”
A warning that selling will not keep
pace with the new age of automatic
production unless management matches
long-range planning of production with
long-range sales planning, was stressed
by Mr. Roy in his address to the con-
ference.
Mr. Benson, in discussing the future
of television, stated that among the
problems facing this industry is die eco-
nomic factor. By’ 1960, he said, “there
will probably be as many UHF as VHF
stations on the air. Meanwhile there
will be heavy losses. This is no place
foi' the shoestring operator.”
The conference chairman was Her-
bert True, member of the Notre Dame
College of Commerce faculty, and
meetings were held on campus at the
Morris Inn. It was another in a series
of services provided by the University
of Notre Dame foi' business and indus-
trial executives of the midwest.
Vol. 7 • No. 3
15
f
Counter clockwise
Assistant coaches
Druze, Dickson, Fischer, Johnston
and Earley.






One of Notte Danie’s favorite sons. Terry Brennan,
embarks on a new era in Notre Dame football history. The
openin'? game against Texas will officially launch 26-year-
olcl Brennan on what is probably football’s most consistent-
ly rugged schedule year in and year out.
Coach Btennan has assembled a staff consisting of two
assistants from Frank Leahy's regime as well as three ad-
ditional former Notie Danie players. Included are: John
Druze and Bill Earley, both holdovers, with Druze coach-
ing the ends and Earley the backfield: George Dickson,
backfield coach who was formerly at N.Y.U. with Hughie
Devore; Bill Fischer, line coach lecently with the Chicago
Cardinals professional football squad; and Frank Johnston.
Freshman coach.
After Frank Leahy resigned because of ill health, Bren-
nan. who was one of the most outstanding backfield men
on the Fighting Irish in 1946, 1947 and 1948. was elevated
to the head coaching job. He tutoied Notre Dame’s
Freshman team last fall. Terry enjoyed phenomenal suc-
cess as head coach of Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago.
He turned out three city championship teams there within
a space of four years. .Also, in addition to coaching foot-
ball. Terry attended Law School at DePaul University
where he received an LL.B, degree.
The entire sports world will be watching Notre Dame
this fall with Terry Brennan at the helm. Enthusiasm is
extremely high on the Irish sqtiad. One of the finest trib-
utes paid to new coach Brennan occurred at a reunion
dinner this past winter of the National Championship 19 47
team when Johnny Lattner, one of the speakers, said, "I
wish I had one more year at Notre Dame so I could plav
for Terry Brennan.’’
16 Notre Dame
0
Ingenious
Engineers
diving board. Top right: there-
min, a musical instrument to
create unusual sounds. Far left:
model of a highway cloverleaf
intersection. Immediate left:
casting paper weights and ash
trays. Bottom: model refrig-
eration unit.
House
The College ot Engineering held its annual “Open
Top
left: pre-stressed concrete
which featured a series of exhibits and demonstrations of stu-
dent classroom and laboratory activities. Each department of
the college assisted in the preparation of this special event and
some of the outstanding exhibits were photographed for the
Notre Dame magazine.
Included in the exhibits not shown on this page were the
following models: earth-rolled dam. Tacoma Narrows suspen-
sion bridge, cut-away steam engine, talking light beam, high-
fi demonstration, foundry plant, liquid air demonstration, Sea-
gate Housing Development, Brooklyn, N. Y., and dynajet air-
plane jet engine in operation. Demonstrations were given of a
link trainer, three wind tunnels, weather instruments and
glider flying.
The program was under the direction of the Engineering
Advisory Board with the co-operation of the Student Senate.

Vocation Institute
Art Exhibit
Lecture Series
Featured on
Campus Program
Schleck.
and Rev.
eluded
Charles
Francis I). Nealy. O.P
The life of die Virgin Man as de-
two other membeis. Rex.

Special events in observance ol the
Maiian Yeai have been ieatured on
campus in recent months. Since Notre
Dame is dedicated to the Blessed
Mother, it was appropriate that Oui
Lady’s University should participate in
commemoration of the centenary pioe-
lamation ol the Immaculate Concep-
tion dogma. Rev. Edward 1). O'Con-
nor, C.S.C., was appointed chaiiman ol
the Marian Year Committee which in-
Cardinal Stritch officiated at the Voca-
tion Institute opening;. It vas attended by
more than 2,000 religious and laymen.
picted in 29 paintings was a special
Marian Y<*ar exhibit at the Notre
Dame Art Galleries. The paintings,
consisting of works done by Italian,
Dutch. German, Spanish and American
artists, portrayed events in Maty’s life
Irom her betrothal to St. Joseph to her
Assumption and Coronation. Oldest of
the paintings was a 15th century Italian
primitive of the Espousal of the Blessed
Virgin and St. Joseph. Six other paint-
ings of the Virgin Marv including
Participants in the Symposium included, (L to R): Fr. Sebastian, O.F.M., Canada;
Fr. Mullaney, O.P., Washington, D. C.; Msgr. Davis, England; Fr. Balic, O.F.M.,
Italy; Dr. Charles De Koninck, Laval Univ., Canada; and Fr. Montalverne, Portugal.
works by di Credi. Botticelli and del
Garbo are included in tin* UniversitvA
permanent collection.
One of the most important events
presented by the Marian Year Comma -
tee was a Theological Symposium on
the Dogma of the Immaculate Concep-
tion. Prominent theologians of this
country and abroad participated on tin*
program. Speakers and their subjet is
included Rev. Carlo Balic. O.F.M..
President of the International Marian
Academy. Rome. Italv. “The Theologv
of the Immaculate Conception From
the 9th to the 13th Century”: Rev.
Urban Mullaney, O.P.. Washington.
D. G.. “The Meaning of the Immacu-
late Conception’’: Rev. Wenceslaus Se-
bastian. O.F.M . Edmonton. Canada.
“The Theologians From Duns Scotus
to 1800”: Dr. Charles De Koninck.
Quebec, Canada. "The Immaculate
Conception, the Compassion and the
Assumption”; and Rev. Joseph Mon-
talveme. O.F.M.. Lisbon. Portugal.
"The Theology of the Immaculate
Conception in the Past 100 Years.”
Tin* opening address of the .sympo-
sium was given bv His Excellency. Mast
Rev. John F. Codv. S.T.D.. Auxiliary
Bishop of the Diocese of St. Joseph.
Another major Marian Year observ-
ance occurred at Notre Dame on July
15th with Samuel Cardinal Stritch.
Archbishop of Chicago, officiating at
du* opening of the annual Vocation In-
stitute. More than 2000 priests. Broth-
ers. Sisteis and lay people participated
in a candlelight procession to the
Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes.
A series of Marian lectures will con-
tinue through the fall with Daniel Sar-
gent. author of "Our Land and Our
Lady,” discussing the history of devo-
tion to the Blessed Mother in the
United States. Tentative plans call for
four or live other lectures also. A sol-
emn rededication of the University of
Notre Dame to the Immaculate Heart
of Mary will be observed on December
8th at the close of the Marian Year.
Vol. 7 • No. 3	19
4