1
The President's Page
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of Notre Dame 3
Germ-Free Life
Robert F. Ervin.........................5
Don't You Fret!
Dr. Daniel C. O'Grady..................11
Notre Dame War on Cancer and Tuberculosis
Follows Successes Against Malaria
Henry C. Mayer.........................13
A New Century at Notre Dame
(Fifth in a Series)....................14
Why Rent Control?
Tighe E. Woods.........................16
Vaccination Against Syphilis, Better Diag-
nosis, May Stem from Young ND Man's Work 18
Experiment in Altruism
John P. Walker.........................20
Spring Sports
James Butz.............................22
A Look at Audio-Visual Teaching Aids . . 24
All-Star Sponsors of the New Science Center 27
VOL. 2 • NO. 3

The University of Notre Dame
IXDIKGKAIHAIE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) •Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame at Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second-
class matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor • John N. Cackley, Jr., ’37, Managing Editor
Contributors' views do not necessarily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in this magazine should be addressed to the Editor.
VOL. 2
JULY • 1949
NO. 3
The
President's Page
T wish to signalize the emergence of a new
landmark in Notre Dame’s history. This
new landmark is the strong, growing finan-
cial support that is being given by Notre
Dame men and friends of the University
toward the much-needed Science Center.
It is highly significant that the total
amount received by the University, thus far
in 1949, from alumni and friends, is more
than twice the corresponding figure for last
year. The support given to Notre Dame by
alumni and friends has been most encour-
aging.
Besides, many Foundation committees,
several local Notre Dame alumni clubs, and
several individual benefactors have pledged
themselves to pay for rooms in the new
Science Center.
Approximately one-half of the funds re-
quired to construct the Science Center
have been received. By the end of the year,
we have reason to think, nearly the entire
$1,750,000 will be available.
To compare the June 6th standing of
1948 and 1949:
1948—5,334 alumni had contributed
$101,758.42 and 270 friends had given
$41,834.35.
1949—4,117 alumni had contributed
$163,086.88 while 408 friends had given
$137,035.75.
The Notre Dame Foundation has shown
by results that it is a tremendous potential
for the development of Notre Dame. The
story of what Notre Dame has been ac-
complishing is being told to an increasing
number of interested friends, and thousands
of well-wishers have been proud to learn
that their beloved “Fighting Irish” of the
gridiron are really representing an institu-
tion whose educational achievements are of
the same quality as its football.
Small gifts have featured the support giv-
en to the Science Center. This is very
meaningful and will grow more significant as
the years run by.
The Notre Dame Foundation has made a
good beginning toward telling the Notre
Dame story to the hundreds of thousands
who look to Notre Dame as a powerful
fountainhead of right-thinking and clean-
living young men, our country’s leaders of
tomorrow.
I should like to express my heartfelt
thanks again to the hundreds of alumni and
friends who are actively working as Foun-
dation chairmen, committeemen, class-agents
and helpers throughout the United States.
Without their help Notre Dame could never
have hoped for the Science Center that is
now beginning to emerge as a magnificent
reality from the mists of hope.
There is still much work to be done and
I wish to exhort everyone to continue the
generous and self-sacrificing efforts toward
the end which is in sight.
The University’s science program on the
Mutual network on Universal Notre Dame
Night was a fascinating episode in our his-
tory. We have received dozens of enthusias-
tic messages of comment. The University
owes much gratitude to the Mutual Broad-
casting System, to Mr. Edgar Kobak, to Sta-
tion WGN of Chicago, to Mr. Frank Cough-
lin, the author of the program, and to the
staff of WGN for this very interesting pro-
gram. It must have come as a revelation to
thousands of listeners.
I should like to relate to you an inci-
dent which has touched me very deeply and
which I think is symbolic. A young girl, who
is an alumna of a Catholic college, sent a
message to Notre Dame explaining that she
desired to help toward the establishment of
the Science Center. The only means by
which she could support the project was the
gift of a diamond-set ring which she had
received from her mother. She asked the
University to dispose of the ring and use
the proceeds to help with the Science Fund.
This utterly unselfish desire to be of assis-
tance has a quality of inspiration that indi-
cates that Notre Dame, Our Lady, has put
Her Hand to the task of guiding our efforts
in this—as Her loving Hand has guided the
destiny and growth of the University of Our
Lady for 107 years.
In the beautiful month of May, the
prayers that rose nightly from the Grotto
where the students gather as they have done
for so many decades to praise Our Lady,
are Notre Dame’s pledge that we will not
forget that our lives and our work are dedi-
cated to the Mother of God.
Vol. 2
2\o. 3
3
Caesarian section, is
the side of the cage.
This germ-free monkey, having been delivered into a germ-free cage by-
being fed a sterilized milk formula. The long rubber gloves are sealed into
Germ-F ree Life
The Amazing Story of LOBUND and Its Revolutionary
Approach to Study of Pathological Conditions of Unknown
Cause: Heart Disease, Tooth Decay, Radiation Sickness,
Possibly Cancer—in World’s First and Only Center of
Germ-Free Animals Reared for Research
By Robert F. Ervin
LAVERY normal animal harbors dozens of
J—* kinds of geims throughout its life—from
its first breath on.
Because it harbors so many kinds simulta-
neously, and because they vary in the body
from day to day and from diet to diet, sci-
ence has not been able to study the specific
effects of each.
Yet modern medicine has needed to know
the specific effects of each of these germ
species. If we had known which ones pro-
duced harmful effects, and which produced
beneficial effects, we would have been able
to make intelligent efforts to avoid the form-
er and to take advantage of the latter.
Now, however, science IS able to study
the specific effects of specific germs, thanks
to LOBUND (Laboratories of Bacteriology,
University of Notre Dame).
And such revolutionary studies,
attracting international atten-
tion, are being made today.
LOBUND, the world’s first
center of completely germ-free
animals reared for research, can
study the effects of any specific
kind of germ—by raising ani-
mals which are free of all bac-
teria, and then subjecting them
to the species of germ to be
studied while successfully ex-
cluding all other species from
the experiment. Not only do
these techniques make it pos-
sible to study the role of “nor-
mal” germs; they also consti-
tute what seems to be the basic
approach to the study of patho-
logical conditions whose causes
are unknown—at best, only sus-
pected: heart disease, tooth de-
cay, radiation sickness and pos-
sibly cancer.
Early History
All this has stemmed from the dream of
one man, James A. Reyniers, Director of
LOBUND and Research Professor of Bac-
The author is the business administratoi
of LOBUND (Laboratories of Bacteriology,
University of Notre Dame), of which he be-
came an assistant in 1936 immediately after
his graduation from Notre Dame with a
B.S. degree in pharmacy. He received an
M.S. degree in bacteriology in 1938, and
joined the Notre Dame faculty in 1939.
Ervin engaged in government research in
LOBUND during World War II. Author
(with other LOBUND personnel) of five
publications on germ-free life, he also is As-
sociate Editor of LOBUND Reports and Co-
Editor of Graphic Health Charts. A contri-
butor to the Journal of Laboratory and Clin-
ical Medicine and the Journal of Document-
ary Reproduction, Ervin is a member of sev-
eral scientific societies and in 1947 was
president of the Indiana Branch of the So-
ciety of American Bacteriologists.
After Caesarian delivery, a litter is trans-
ferred from the rearing cage (left) through
a sterile lock into the operating cage (right).
There the animals are fed by hand until
"weaned."
teriology—a dream begun back in 1928,
when he was a not-untypical Notre Dame
undergraduate.
Despite the difficulty of earlier attempts
since 1895 to raise germ-free animals as re-
search tools, Reyniers had hope. He wanted
to study the individual bacterial cell and to
eliminate contamination from bacteriological
experiments. The failure of others before
him left many of his friends skeptical of his
belief that it was worth more time and
money and heartache. But he started toward
his goal—with nothing but determination,
hard work and an ability to make and sell
archery equipment to defray his earliest costs.
Reyniers immediately won the sympathy
and encouragement of the late Rev. Francis
J. Wenninger, C.S.C., then Dean of the Col-
lege of Science and Head of
the Biology Department, and
the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara,
C.S.C., now Bishop of Buffalo,
then Vice-President and later
President of Notre Dame. Since
that time, the LTniversity ad-
ministration and the Congrega-
tion of Holy Cross have given
LOBUND's Director invaluable
support and assistance.
Physical Plant
Reyniers invented and built
his own ingenious micro-mani-
pulation instruments and germ-
free apparatus which made it
possible to inject, dissect and
isolate single cells of micro-
organisms or tissues, affording
a way to exclude undesirable
germs from any bacteriologi-
cal research. These were the
days (and nights!) in a rick-
ety little laboratory in old Sci-
Today LOBUND has 45 labora-
tories and offices, 43 technicians, seven
research scientists and four office person-
nel in the Biology Building (entire first
ence Hall.
Vol. 2
No. 3
o
A LOBUND technician plastic-coats a glove form —for a special diving suit
needed m the new apparatus for rearing a colony of germ-free animals.
floor) and in a brand new germ-free-life lab-
oratory building, animal house and machine
shop just north of the campus.
The financing of so large a research or-
ganization is a heavy and constant problem
to the University Administration. Much of
the operating expense is being defrayed by
interested friends who have learned of its
work only recently, and by industrial, gov-
ernmental and research agencies which need
LOBUND’s techniques, equipment and
“know-how” to solve some of their problems.
Three Divisions
LOBUND has three administrative div-
isions: GERM-FREE LIFE, BIOLOGICAL
ENGINEERING and MICRURGY. The
Germ-Free Life division is the largest and
today is attracting the most attention. It
offers immediate “practical” applications
and has been in a better position to colla-
borate with outside research centers. The
other two divisions, not yet so far advanced,
promise equally original and important med-
ical and biological techniques
The three divisions, as will be seen, are
closely inter-related. Knowledge of biological
engineering necessarily antedated the germ-
free system which, however, can be reversed
to study engineering problems in the handl-
ing of biological material. Micrurgy uses
germ-free techniques on a micro-scale, while
both germ-free and biological engineering
utilize the special instruments perfected in
micrurgy to study certain cellular pheno-
mena.
Germ-Free Life
Animals are obtained germ-free in two
ways. In the case of mammals (rats, guinea
pigs, mice, monkeys, etc.), a Caesarian sec-
tion is performed in a sterile environment
just before normal birth is expected. Chick-
ens and other germ-free animals hatched
from eggs are procured by sterilizing the
fertile eggs in a germicidal bath as they are
passed into the germ-free environment.
Once obtained, these germ-free animals
are kept in a specially designed cage from
which all germs are excluded but into which
sterile food, water and air are introduced.
They are not removed until the end of the
experiment.
In preparation for a typical germ-free-rat
experiment, an operating cage is bolted to
a rearing cage; and these two units are steri-
lized with steam under pressure. The timed-
pregnancy rat is anesthetized, strapped down
to an operating board and sent through a
sterile trap into the operating cage. The
operator and his assistant, working through
rubber gloves sealed into the walls of the
cage, deliver the baby rats by Caesarian sec-
tion. The litter is placed in a small pan and
passed into the rearing cage through the
connecting cylinder The rearing cage is
then detached and hooked to a sterile air
line, and the special milk formula is steri-
lized into the rearing unit through a small
sterile lock attached to the side. The rats are
then weighed and the hourly feeding sched-
ule begun. Every hour, 24 hours a day, sev-
en days a week for three weeks, the little
rats are fed individually through an eye
dropper fitted with a tiny rubber nipple.
On the 14th day (when the rat’s eyes first
open), solid food is presented. Finally, on
about the 24th day, the rats are weaned.
Note filter tubes for sterile air — mounted on each rearing cage —
and sealed-in gloves in foreground.
i
I •
I
The new Germ-Free Life Production Laboratory. Of interest to some
future scientist may be the variety of 1947 biological specimens in
the cornerstone.
A germ-free chicken is autopsied by Dr. H. A. Gordon, LOBUND phy-
siologist. Waiting to receive blood and tissue for analysis are Dr. T.
D. Luckey, chief biochemist, and Morris Wagner, chief bacteriologist.
LOBUND administrative staff examines germ-free cage model. Left to
right: Professors James A. Reyniers, founder and director; Philip C.
Trexler, assistant director, and Robert F. Ervin, business administrator.
recorded with the other experimental data.
These animals are so valuable that nothing
is wasted.
Once or twice a week during the experi-
ment, a technician has removed cultures
from the germ-free cage and tested them in
the bacteriology laboratory to make sure the
rats are germ-free and stay germ-free. Even
a pin hole leak in a rubber glove might con-
taminate and ruin a valuable litter of ani-
mals. During the course of the experiment,
the sterilization crew has been testing the
air supply, transferring the rats to clean
cages and passing food into, and cultures
out of, the cage.
The biochemical staff has been preparing
special diets, keeping a check on the growth
curves, testing the effect of sterilization of
the diets and handling other duties bearing
upon the animals’ nutrition. The physiologist
and his staff have noted any untoward
symptoms in the rats, autopsied any which
may have died and made plans for proper
disposition of the animals and their tissues
at the termination of the experiment. It
takes about 500 man hours of work to raise
one litter of rats 25 days. When weaned,
they can be maintained with much less ef-
fort.
At the end of the experiment (we have
reared germ-free chickens over 400 days and
rats over 300 days), final cultures are taken
for bacteriological study and the animals re-
moved to the autopsy laboratory, where
photographs are taken and the animals care-
fully and completely autopsied.
The blood may go to serology for deter-
mination of antibody content, livers to bio-
chemistry for a check on vitamin content,
teeth examined by research dentists for any
signs of decay and organs sliced on a micro-
tome and examined microscopically. When
LOBUND’s research team gets through with
one of these germ-free animals, there is
practically nothing which has not been
weighed, photographed, studied microscopi-
cally, analyzed or measured. Findings are
Accomplishments To Date
Germ-free animals must be reared in
quantities large enough to be used on a
wide variety of problems. Techniques must
be devised to keep these animals as normal
as possible for as long as possible. They must
be described completely so that they can be
compared in every respect with so-called
“normal” animals. A large enough staff
must be trained in the necessary specialized
and intricate techniques. There must be col-
laboration with other centers whose special-
ists in many fields of science may help. All
of these things LOBUND and Notre Dame
have done, are doing, or will be able to do
in the immediate future.
In our new germ-free-life laboratory, a
fantastic apparatus is being built to house
an entire colony of germ-free rats. A man
dressed in a diving suit will be introduced
into the big tank through a vat of germi-
cide. He will clean the cages, feed the ani-
mals and send out as many rats per day as
are necessary for individual experiments.
This will be the stock colony supply of germ-
free animals for science.
LOBUND is collaborating with other cen-
ters interested in helping on germ-free life
problems or which want to use these unique
animals for some special research of their
own. Since the animals cannot be shipped,
and since this is the only place in the United
States where germ-free animals are reared,
the work must be done at Notre Dame.
Among such collaborators are The Office of
Naval Research, Parke, Davis & Company,
Walter G. Zoller Memorial Dental Clinic
of the University of Chicago, Regional Poul-
try Research Laboratory, and the Kellogg
Company.
LOBUND’s apparatus has been perfected
and in use, now, for a number of years.
Both chickens and rats have been reared
through two generations. Techniques for this
long-range program have been publicized in
LOBUND Reports and elsewhere.
Our survey studies on these and other
animals have uncovered many important
medical “leads.” The collaborative program
with the Zoller Dental Clinic has indicated
the ultimate answer to the cause of tooth
decay. Evidence already has been found to
change many long held theories in nutrition.
Our work with Parke, Davis & Go. research
laboratories has thrown new light on the role
played by micro-organisms in the intestinal
tract.
We also are in the process of studying the
serology, anatomy, physiology and biochem-
istry of germ-free animals. These studies are
giving us the base line from which we can
read results of future experiments with this
new biological tool.
Biological Engineering
By making slight changes in the Reyniers
Germ-Free System, it is possible to use it
for other things than rearing germ-free ani-
mals. For example, bacteria can be sealed
into the apparatus so that they can’t become
contaminated with other types of germs.
With this equipment studies can be made on
large quantities of disease germs in pure
culture with complete safety to the research
staff. It is also feasible to test effects of
various types of gasses upon these bacteria
in a closed and controlled environment.
Thus, in LOBUND’s Division of Biologi-
cal Engineering, experiments are going on
with the problems of air-borne infections
and their control. It is because of these ex-
periments with disease organisms that
LOBUND’s doors are locked. And it is here
that we are studying new and better meth-
ods for producing special diets needed in
germ-free-life research. For example, we are
working with larger equipment in an at-
tempt to spray dry these milk formulae and
thus obtain a more uniform product.
All experiments in the biological engineer-
ing division have very “practical” applica-
tions. An entire wing of the famous Cradle
in Evanston, Ill., contains the Reyniers Cu-
bicle System for prevention of air-borne epi-
demics among children in nurseries, orphan-
ages and hospitals. This system resulted
from biological engineering experimentation.
Another problem being studied is that of
large-scale production of vaccines for medi-
cine.
Micrurgy
Very little is known about the life cycles
of bacteria—even about the nature of the
bacterial cell itself. Yet, since bacteria are
the units with which bacteriologists work
and upon which so much of man’s knowl-
edge of disease depends, this information
must be obtained—and the sooner the better
for man. Science, for example, would like
to know more about the mechanism by
which bacteria transmit their characteristics
from one generation to another. Since a well
defined nucleus cannot be demonstrated in
bacteria (as in other cells) what is this
mechanism of inheritance? By what means
do bacteria change and vary? Why do some
bacteria produce disease and others not?
Under a microscope, there is no great dif-
ference in appearance between those which
cause sickness and those which do not. How
do bacteria build up resistance to sulfanila-
mide so that this famous drug can no longer
rid the disease germ from the patient’s
body? Why is pneumonia worse one winter
than another? And, finally, can bacteria
change into viruses or vice versa?
To answer questions like these, we must
know more about the nature of the bac-
terial cell itself. But these cells are so mi-
nute that to dissect, inject, isolate and ana-
lyze them under the microscope require very
special tools and techniques. In LOBUND’s
Micrurgical Division, these tools are being
invented, built and put to use on just such
problems as are listed above. Precision ma-
chine tools, micro-manipulators, micro-
injectors, micro-forges and other micro-
instruments are being made. With them,
and with original techniques, LOBUND’s
scientists may answer some of these questions
before long.
One machine developed in this division
will automatically count bacteria in a sample
of water or broth more accurately and
quickly than ordinary methods used in bac-
teriology.
The Staff
Tightly knit and a real “team,” LO-
BUND’s staff is one of its top assets.
It is administered by Reyniers as Director,
Philip C. Trexler as Assistant Director and
the writer as Business Administrator. Trex-
ler, who joined Reyniers as a laboratory as-
sistant in 1932, during his undergraduate
days at Notre Dame, heads the Micrurgical
Division and directs LOBUND’s technical
development. He has done much to help
perfect LOBUND methods and equipment.
The writer joined Reyniers and Trexler in
1935, in his senior year at Notre Dame.
The research staff is comprised of Dr. H.
A. Gordon, physiologist; Dr. T. D. Luckey,
biochemist; Morris Wagner, bacteriologist,
and Bernard Teah, in charge of germ-free-
life production. Each directs technical staffs
trained in their specialities.
LOBUND and Notre Dame
We often have been asked, “Where does
LOBUND fit into Notre Dame?” The
answer is that LOBUND was started at No-
tre Dame, built by Notre Dame ... is part
of Notre Dame, unique to Notre Dame.
While it is unusual for a University to have
a research organization separated from its
academic organization, it is not unusual for
a University to do large-scale research. No-
tre Dame’s LOBUND is separate from the
academic because of the specialized nature
of its work, the scope of its research pro-
gram, its full-time staff of 50, its continuous
year-’round operation and the ultimate sep-
aration of physical plant. Some of LO-
BUND’s research men also teach in the Uni-
versity; and, when the pressure of building
eases, some arrangement will be made at a
graduate level for students to work and
study in LOBUND itself. Subjects taught
by the staff include bacteriology, hygiene,
biochemistry and immunology.
Research is an essential part of every
modern university. It is necessary not only
Bernard Teah, germ-free life production chief, working with appara-
tus in Biological Engineering division, where germ-free system is
used in reverse. Instead of sealing organisms out and rearing ani-
mals within, bacteria are sealed in to prevent escape or contam-
ination by unwanted germs.
New LOBUND animal house (left) and machine shop.
The more delicate work with micromanipulation apparatus is done
on this vibrationless concrete table in LOBUND'S Micrurgical Divi-
sion. In the background: incubators and constant temperature baths
used in bacteriological and tissue culture experiments.
because research is requisite to graduate
work, but because, through research, uni-
versities can make valuable contributions to
the nation’s common good. It need not in
any way conflict with industry or govern-
ment; rather, it should complement their
work. Pure or basic research, as contrasted
with applied research, is especially adapt-
able to university effort. The LOBUND re-
search program is fundamentally basic re-
search.
The Future
Thus far, Notre Dame has financed most
of the development of LOBUND with its
own funds. It has built all of the physical
plant (some $400,000), purchased most of
the apparatus (valued at some $150,000)
and borne a large share of the running ex-
penses. It has backed the development of
the Germ-Free Division to the point where
it can take research grants and contracts
from the outside and thus reduce the cost to
the University. But there are still things to
be done; and, to do them, Notre Dame
needs help. The Division of Biological En-
gineering and Micrurgy are well started and
their future is unmistakable; but they are
not as completely developed as is Germ-
Free. With the physical plant separated by
more than a quarter of a mile, and with a
premium on space in the Biology Building,
more of the small-type buildings (about
$200,000 each) are needed on the 40-acre
plot north of the campus. And finally, there
is need for LOBUND endowment so that
this work can be less dependent upon out-
side research contracts.
Meanwhile, LOBUND keeps working—
on its fascinating problems, with its unique
techniques, in its special laboratories, with
its eyes on the future and a cover over the
clock.
And interested visitors are always welcome.
DEBATE TEAM WINS
NATIONAL TOURNEY HONORS
The University of Notre Dame debating
team won the Midwest debating champion-
ship at the West Point National Invitational
Debate Tournament held recently at the
United States Military Academy.
In the thirty-four team field competing
at West Point, which were selected from
more than 300 colleges and universities en-
gaging in forensic activities, Coach Leonard
Sommer’s Notre Dame debaters were ranked
fifth in the United States. This position in-
cludes both speaker ratings and won-and-
loss records.
Other honors compiled by the Notre
Dame debaters at the national tournament
included a rating as the No. 1 Catholic
University debating team and second in the
United States on individual speaker ratings.
Notre Dame defeated Pepperdine College,
Baylor, Louisiana State University, Stanford,
Montana University and the United States
Military Academy before being eliminated in
the quarter-finals of the tournament.
Representing Notre Dame in the West
Point tournament were senior Frank Finn,
of Denison, Tex., and sophomore William
Carey, of Pittsburgh, Pa.
IO Notre Dame
ND ATOMIC RESEARCHERS
PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO U. S.
A 100 percent voluntary “Oath of Alle-
giance” to the United States Government
recently was signed and submitted to the
Atomic Energy Commission and the Con-
gress of the United States by students in
the graduate school at the University of
Notre Dame who are holders of Atomic
Energy Commission Fellowships.
Graduate students at Notre Dame were
awarded eight out of a total of forty-four
fellowships made available by the Atomic
Energy Commission for the 1948-49 school-
year.
The statement, signed both by Notre
Dame graduate students who have held
1948-49 Atomic Energy Fellowships and by
those who have been newly appointed for
1949-50, pointed out that they are “pro-
foundly disturbed by the unfortunate pub-
licity which has attended the work of the
Commission in its efforts to promote in-
valuable research in the atomic field through
financial encouragement of students in a
number of our great universities.” Jeopardiz-
ing this program, they said, “will jeopard-
ize progress vital to the American people.”
“We, therefore, wish to go on record as
affirming our complete allegiance to the
United States Government, and our com-
plete loyalty in carrying out the valuable
work in which we are engaged,” the state-
ment continues. “This work, at Notre Dame,
is carried on in the midst of a great Ameri-
can educational tradition. The fundamental
principles of the University’s religious and
educational background are thoroughly in-
tegrated in the fundamental principles upon
which the Government of the United States
was founded, and upon which it must con-
tinue to rest if it is to endure.”
The Notre Dame fellowship holders de-
clared in the statement that “we believe
that other students and other universities
engaged in this great field for our future as
a nation share this loyalty and integrity,
and we deplore the possible sacrifice of
progress which can accompany adverse pub-
licity attending any exception to this general
condition.”
The students concluded: “Therefore,
speaking for the Atomic Energy Commission
Fellows at the University of Notre Dame,
we reiterate our loyalty to our Government,
our belief in the integrity of our scientific
research, and our hope that present suspi-
cions will not be allowed to obscure the
great contributions which private education-
al institutions, as well as tax-supported
schools, can and do make to America.”
PROFESSOR FISCHER PREDICTS
FUTURE NEWSPAPER CHANGES
“ ‘Last Newsboy Dies’ is a headline some
of the babies born this morning will live to
read”, predicts Professor Edward A. Fischer
of the Department of Journalism at the
University of Notre Dame, in an article in
a recent issue of “America” magazine, na-
tional Catholic weekly, in which he says
that “facsimile” will revolutionize the news-
paper world.
Professor Fischer expresses the view that
“facsimile” is due to replace the old-fash-
ioned newspaper, sending newsboys, linotype
operators, sterotypers, compositors and press-
men to membership in a vanishing genera-
tion.
The Notre Dame professor explained that
the new “facsimile” newspapers will be the
size of a large magazine, have wide col-
umns, large type and many pictures. A com-
plete detour will be made around the me-
chanical department with stories typed on a
vari-typer and placed before a “scanner”,
which converts these impulses back into
print and produces the “facsimile” news-
paper, he pointed out. Professor Fischer ob-
served that already the St. Louis “Star-
Times” and “Post-Dispatch” and the Phil-
adelphia “Record” and the Miami, Florida,
“Herald” have operated “facsimile” news-
papers.
Professor Fischer wrote that newspaper
operating costs will be cut by 90 per cent
by conversion to “facsimile” and cost of
starting a newspaper in a large city will be
reduced from hundreds of thousands of dol-
lars to about $20,000. The only holdup
today is the novelty of the idea and the
production of receivers that can be sold or
rented at a low* cost, according to Professor
Fischer. Publishers who own several hun-
dred thousands of dollars worth of equip-
ment are naturally hesitant about declaring
it obsolete, according to the Notre Dame
professor, but rising mechanical costs and
the competition of television may bring
“facsimile” to the fore in only a few years.
STUDEBAKER PRESIDENT TALKS
TO ENGINEERING GROUP
More than 300 college professors and rep-
resentatives of industry met here recently
for the twelfth annual session of the Indi-
ana-Illinois Section of the American Society
for Engineering Education.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of Notre Dame, welcomed mem-
bers to the University at the opening session.
Harold S. Vance, Chairman of the Board
and President of the Studebaker Corpora-
tion, delivered the principal address dur-
ing the initial session entitled “Industry
Looks to College.”
N. W. Dougherty, Dean of Engineering
at the University of Tennessee, spoke at
the luncheon on “Professional Registration
of Engineers.”
Other sessions included panel discussions
on such subjects as “Visual Aids”, “Extend-
ing the Campus Boundaries”, “Cooperative
Research Between Industry and Universi-
ties”, “Transition from College to Industry”,
“The Humanistic-Social Aspects of Engi-
neering Education”, and “Engineering Li-
braries”.
Coordination of activities for the meeting
were under the direction of W. D. Drink-
water, Assistant Professor of Aeronautical
Engineering at Notre Dame and Secretary-
Treasurer of the local section of the Society.
don 7 you
Fret!
“Our secular scientists in psychotherapy and mental hy-
giene have not exploited the resources of HOPE or its
corresponding virtue of fortitude. If people want what
Msgr. Sheen calls ‘peace of soul/ let them find in reli-
gion the importance of this theological virtue — and a
confidence not elsewhere or otherwise available.”
By Br. Baniel C, O'Grady
T1JORRY is a form of fear response; and,
’ ' to understand the former, it would be
well to examine the latter.
In Aristotle’s day the popular definition
of fear was “the expectation of evil” (Eth-
ics, 1115a). St. Thomas, who lists fear
among the five irascible passions, says that
its object is a future evil, difficult and
(seemingly) irresistible (la 2ae, Qq.41-45).
He mentions among its objects things sud-
den and things strange, and these are also
enumerated by contemporary psychologists
as normal stimuli. McDougall called fear
the emotional quality that accompanies the
instinct of escape or self-preservation, and
Woodworth defined it as the emotion
aroused by a danger situation.	'
Despite some of our contemporaries, fear
is standard equipment—F.O.B. the matern-
ity hospital! And, despite the late F. D. R.,
there can be no complete “freedom from
fear.” It is one of the basic emotions, part
of our native endowment; and it ranges in
degree, expression and variety from simple
startle-reactions through misgivings, appre-
hensions, frights, scares, anxieties, alarms,
flight and stampede to the paralysis or im-
mobility of panic, dread, utter horror and
sheer terror.
But, we repeat, fear is normal and in-
evitable in some situations. For comparative
illustration, consider the case recently re-
ported of an infant devoid of pain sensa-
tions. While the first reaction of the reader
might well be “How fortunate!”, it would,
on second thought, more likely be “How
dangerous!” Because one of the functions of
pain is to signal distress, to serve as a warn-
ing. Likewise, a hypothetically fearless man
would often be in grave peril.
Aristotle, who gives us in his Ethics the
golden mean doctrine of virtue, with vices
defined as excesses or defects of the former,
asserts that an excess of courage or fear-
lessness is typical of a madman or an insen-
sible person; and he adds that a rash man is
a boastful pretender. In other words, true
courage is not incompatible with prudent
caution (1115a7ff.). The overconfidence and
extreme optimism of the reckless daredevil
are symptomatic of the fools who rush in
where angels fear to tread. Samuel John-
son expressed the same opinion when he
said: “I never thought confidence, with re-
spect to futurity, any part of the character
of a brave, a wise or a good man. Bravery
has no place where it can avail nothing . .
(Boswell; Aetat. 75). The confidence of ig-
norant, drunk, sanguine and pugnacious
people is rated by Aristotle as pseudo-cour-
age (1116a). For him as for Johnson, death
is the most terrible of all things, and he
regards bravery proper as fearlessness in the
face of noble death and military emergency.
Of course, the pagan Aristotle knew nothing
of that voluntary endurance of death for
faith or virtue, which Christians call martyr-
dom. Among other things which he says are
commonly feared are disgrace, poverty, dis-
ease and friendlessness; and this list cor-
responds, in reverse, fairly closely to W. I.
Thomas’ list of basic human wishes, viz.,
security, response, recognition and novelty,
about which we must say something later.
It is a fault, says Aristotle, to fear what,
as or when we shouldn’t; and the excess of
fear (or the defect of courage) is cowardice.
He calls the coward a “despairing sort of
person” and mentions the suicide in this
context. Aquinas describes despair as an
“avoidance of good.” The present writer is
tempted here to digress on pessimism, fa-
talism, defeatism, nihilism, skepticism, quiet-
ism, Buddhism and even Stoicism; but space
limitations forbid, so, fear not, gentle reader.
We are not concerned in this article with
morbid fears or with such neurotic symp-
toms as phobias, but we can well employ a
useful distinction that pertains to the psy-
chology of the normal mind and personality.
I refer to the difference between acute or
transient emotions and persistent states or
chronic conditions, both virtuous and vi-
cious. Thus, a fright is a temporary experi-
ence; but worry is less fugitive and ephe-
meral. Some psychologists call moods “emo-
tional hangovers,” and they refer to disposi-
tion or even temperament as a mood that
lasts. a lifetime. (The reader has no doubt
heard of the even-tempered man who was
always sore!). Webster’s cartoon character,
“The Timid Soul,” is a fair illustration of
fear as an attitude—as a permanent frame
of mind or outlook.
Worry is usually an unpleasant mental
state or emotional attitude. I say "usually"
because some people seem to make a career
The author, a Notre Dame philosophy
professor, has been Associate Editor of The
New Scholasticism, official publication of the
American Catholic Philosophical Associa-
tion, since 1946.
A member of the American Society for
the Advancement of Science, Royal Astro-
nomical Society of Canada and Mediaeval
Academy of America, he has contributed to
America and Thomist, and has written a
textbook on cosmology and (with the Rev.
Charles C. Miltner, C.S.C.) an Introduction
to Metaphysics.
A native of Ottawa, Dr. O’Grady joined
the Notre Dame faculty in 1926 and became
an American citizen a few years ago. He re-
ceived Ph.B. and Ph.D. degrees from the
University of Ottawa, an M.A. from Catho-
lic University of America, and was an Army
clinical psychologist and personnel consul-
tant in World War II.
Vol. 2
No. 3
11
of it, thereby resembling those who “enjoy”
poor health. They are frequently if not con-
stantly preoccupied with, dissatifying pros-
pects. When this probing of their own men-
tal wounds reaches the stage of self-torture,
it is, of course, pathological or abnormal;
and this tendency to recurring fears would
be called, in the jargon of psychiatry, an
anxiety state (rather than mere worry). It
is continuous, vague and diffused.
That there are injurious situations and
dangers in human life—both private and
public, both personal and social and both
domestic and foreign—nobody sane will
deny. That the impending possibilities are
fraught with peril and menacing prospects
is a perennial feature of our terrestrial rou-
tine and quotidian concerns apart from the
special emergencies and crises and disasters
which have to be anticipated if they are to
be prevented or evaded. Worry is therefore
warranted, at least as preliminary to plan-
ning. Our cares and troubles are the ob-
jective counterparts and causes of worry;
and they usually consist in some real or
fancied practical problem—that is, some ob-
stacle or difficulty.
From the field of common sense and ordi-
nary experience (to say nothing of the realm
of folklore), proverbial sagacity has its say.
The wisdom of the human race, so to speak,
assures us that “it won’t make any difference
a hundred years from now”; “most of the
things we worry about never happen”; “he
doesn’t know when he’s well off”; “don’t
make mountains out of mole-hills”; “don’t
let your bleeding heart run away with your
bloody head”; “don’t worry, it probably
won’t be fatal, and if you die you can’t
worry”, etc. There are also such half-truths
as “the only thing to fear is fear itself”,
“what you don’t know won’t hurt you”,
etc.
Moving upward to psychotherapy (but still
on the profane, secular level), we get such
reassurance and counsel as the following:
fight is better than flight; face the facts,
confront the situation, evaluate its causes,
don’t postpone considering the problem;
confide and confess; get advice; do some-
thing; develop balancing factors, i.e., com-
promise, adjust, seek antidotes.
But we are told today that, because of
worry, peptic ulcers and cerebral hemor-
rhages have become the occupational dis-
eases of American businessmen and that the
situation is getting desperate, because vir-
tually epidemic.
If so, the conclusions of the moral phil-
osophers should be of some help because
they unanimously advise us that happiness
is not to be found in (a) wealth, prosperity,
affluence and opulence; nor in (b) fame,
glory, renown, prestige, publicity, etc.; nor
in (c) influence, power, authority, control,
etc.; nor in (d) pleasure, sport, fun, enter-
tainment, amusement—“liquor, ladies and
lyrics”, as a modem hedonist put it.
Such goals are fickle, capricious, unstable,
transitory. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity.
“Modern man seeks happiness”, says one
critic, “but only finds success.33 Those who
try to find their felicity in that modern
fetish “security” should be reminded that
the man in America with the most secur-
ity is one with a life-sentence to Alcatraz.
His host is the richest one on earth and
the guest has guaranteed board, room and
tuition in perpetuity. The insurance agent,
of course, can offer you a life policy in
case you die too soon or a pension-plan in
case you live too long, thus getting you both
ways with the tempting solace of security.
To get an estimate of our situation and
to gain orientation and perspective, we must
always remember the end; and by the end
is meant not just the result or outcome of
life, but its aim and purpose. Human acts
are means and should be justified by being
proportioned to human destiny. As St.
Thomas says, the end is the first principle in
the practical order. So let.us put first things
first. Too many people worry about the
wrong things. They fear the loss of compara-
tive trivia and are relatively unconcerned
about grave matters. Their theory of impor-
tance is fallacious and their scale of values
needs revision. Let them turn to our fourth
source of advice, to moral theology, to re-
ligion.
Montaigne said that a liar was brave be-
fore God but a coward before men. Religion
tells us that the fear of the Lord is one of
the seven Gifts of the Holy Ghost and that
the beginning of wisdom is the fear of the
Lord. If people want not just peace of mind,
but what Sheen calls “peace of soul,33 let
them find in religion the importance of
HOPE, one of the three theological virtues
sup er naturally infused. Let them formulate
some “articles of hope33 on this basis and
they will find a reliance, a trust and a con-
fidence not elsewhere or otherwise obtain-
able.
Indeed, our secular scientists in psycho-
therapy and mental hygiene have not ex-
ploited the resources of the natural passion
of hope (or its corresponding virtue of for-
titude).
This pursuit of good as future, difficult
but possible (The Thomistic definition) is a
constructive source of reassurance and rein-
forcement—and is a remedy or antidote for
excessive worry.
NOTRE DAME RECEIVES BEQUEST
FROM TRUSTEE
A total of $40,000 has been left to the
University of Notre Dame in the will of the
late William J. Corbett, Sr., well-known
Chicago shoe merchant, according to an an-
nouncement by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney,
G.S.C., Executive Assistant to the President
at Notre Dame.
Mr. Corbett, pioneer shoe merchant and
president of the C. W. Marks Shoe Com-
pany, in Chicago, was a member of the As-
sociate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre
Dame from 1941 until his death in May,
1948. He was awarded posthumously an
honorary doctorate degree by Notre Dame
at the 1948 commencement last June.
The will specified that the $40,000 will
be added to an original fund of $34,000,
founded in 1934, the income of which will
be used to increase the present Mediaeval
Institute Library at Notre Dame.
N. D. CONCERT BAND PLAYS
BENEFIT FOR POLIO PATIENTS
The University of Notre Dame concert
band made a detour during its annual
Spring trip to make a crippled youth and his
buddies happy.
Members of the band voted unanimously
to play a benefit performance before patients
at the Infantile Paralysis Foundation in
Warm Springs, Georgia. The performance at
Warm Springs was in answer to a request
from Mrs. J. Thomas Sexton, mother of a
20-year old paralytic from Toledo, Ohio,
whom she terms “Notre Dame’s Number
One Fan”, and.from John Joyce, of Spar-
tanburg, S. C., a graduate of Notre Dame
in 1941 and Governor for the Notre Dame
Foundation in South Carolina, who also is
a patient at the Foundation.
The Indiana Motor Bus Company went
along by contributing the mileage for the
round trip from Atlanta to Warm Springs
for the two chartered busses in which the
band travels.
NROTC RIFLE TEAM TAKES
NATIONAL TITLE
The Naval R.O.T.C. rifle team at Notre
Dame has been named winner of the nation-
al marksmanship championship among naval
units in the 1948-49 William Randolph
Hearst R.O.T.C. rifle matches.
Donald J. Murphy, of New York City, a
student in the College of Commerce, won
the individual marksmanship championship.
Murphy formerly was a member of the
Xavier High School rifle team of New York
City which won the National Junior Army
Championship in the Hearst Matches of
1946.
Members of the championship Notre
Dame team in addition to Murphy are:
James W. Hartman, of Vanderlip, W. Va.;
Oscar F. Beumel, of Evansville, Ind.; Fran-
cis G. Brickson, of San Antonio, Tex.; and
Edward J. Walsh, of Newburgh, N. Y.
Notre Dame won by a comfortable 20-
point margin over 52 other colleges and
universities.
ATTORNEY GENERAL TOM CLARK
SPEAKS AT LAW CLUB BANQUET
Tom C. Clark, Attorney General of the
United States, was the principal speaker at
the Hoynes Law Banquet held recently at
the University of Notre Dame.
The banquet, named for the late Col.
William Hoynes who was the first dean of
the Notre Dame law school, is sponsored an-
nually by the Notre Dame Law Club for
graduating seniors in the College of Law.
The Notre Dame Law Club is composed of
students in the Notre Dame law school.
President of the club is John Hyland, of
Penn Yan, New York. James Cassidy, of
Peoria, Illinois, was chairman of the ban-
quet.
12
Notre Dame
Notre Dame War on Cancer
and Tuberculosis Follows
Successes Against Malaria
By HENRI C. MAYER
The author, a sophomore in Notre Dame’s
Department of Arts and Letters, will major
in Journalism. He is a native of Louisville,
Ky., and attended St. Mary’s College and
Xavier University of Cincinnati before en-
tering Notre Dame. He has written for the
Xavier University News, The Record (Louis-
ville Catholic weekly), the Xavier publicity
department and the Notre Dame Scholastic.,
student weekly.
JJAVING scored notable successes in the
development of anti-malarial drugs
after the sources of quinine were cut off
during World War II, Dr. Kenneth N.
Campbell, professor of Chemistry at Notre
Dame, undertook new efforts several years
ago in behalf of anti-cancer drugs—efforts
which already have earned much interested
consideration in many medical circles.
Compounds related to poisonous colchi-
cine (obtained from the common meadow
flower, saffron) have received Dr. Camp-
bell’s chief concentration in his search for
a drug or drugs with which to combat can-
cer.
Briefly, he explains the principle of his
research in this way:
‘'Colchicine can alter seed germination in
such a manner that the new and very large
flowers may be obtained in varieties like the
phlox. It also cause changes in the cancer
cells of animals. But, being highly poisonous,
its use results in death. Therefore, with this
alkaloid as a model, we are endeavoring to
synthesize materials similar to it which
would be less toxic to human beings.”
There has been encouraging progress:
some of the new compounds already have
been shown, through experiments on ani-
mals, to be both active and less poison-
ous. These compounds are sent to the Na-
tional Cancer Institute in Washington, D.
C., and to the Sloan-Kettering Institute in
New York City for testing. The Campbell
anti-cancer research has been subsidized thus
far by the U. S. Public Health Service.
It is interesting to note that Professor
Campbell—one more in a long line of bril-
liant Notre Dame chemists who have suc-
ceeded the great Bather Julius A. Nieuw-
land, C.S.C., discoverer of the components
of neoprene synthetic rubber here on the
campus in 1916—came to Notre Dame in
September, 1936 just three months after
Father Nieuwland’s death. And he immedi-
ately established laboratories for work in
medicinal and hydrocarbon (petroleum)
chemistry.
Having battled the handicaps of old
Chemistry Hall, as have all the rest of the
almost-incredibly successful Nieuwland suc-
cessors, Dr. Campbell is anxiously awaiting
construction of the new Notre Dame Science
Center (see page 27), scheduled to start
when sufficient numbers of people have be-
come sufficiently acquainted with the un-
precedented value for all of mankind of the
unique work being done in science at Notre
Dame—sufficiently acquainted to wish to
make possible the furtherance of such work
by* contributing to the Science Center fund.
It is one of Dr. Campbell’s most cherished
hopes to see, in the new Science Center, an
endowed laboratory and money for assistants
to help him toward successful completion
of his experiments. He also hopes to see
Notre Dame become the first college or uni-
versity to establish a Division of Research
in Medicinal Chemistry.
The work of Dr. Campbell and 11 student
assistants in the war-time development of
anti-malarial drugs was a boon to some
300,000,000 persons afflicted by the disease
every year.
When the supply of quinine was first cur-
tailed early in the war, both manpower and
supplies were at a premium. The search for
substitutes remained for a time on a merely
voluntary basis—by several universities.
Later, the committee of medical research
of the Office of Scientific Development drew
up contracts with Notre Dame and other
institutions, placing Dr. Campbell in charge
at Notre Dame as responsible investigator.
In three years, over 14,000 compounds were
tested throughout the nation for anti-mala-
rial activity.
The Notre Dame project was responsible
for compounds related to the widely-publi-
cized SN-7618, a chlorinated organic com-
pound much superior to both quinine itself
and to atabrine, the German-discovered syn-
thetic first produced in this country in 1942,
in relieving symptoms. It does not cure re-
lapsing malaria; but it cures malignant ter-
tiary malaria more quickly than does ata-
brine or quinine and is a better treatment
than either for relapsing or vivax malaria.
It causes neither the yellowness of skin nor
stomach disturbances caused by atabrine.
In 1945, the last year of the contract,
Notre Dame concentrated on anti-malarials
of the plasmochin type. Another German-
developed drug, plasmochin itself is effective
in treating relapsing malaria but is too toxic
to be used safely. Related compounds have
great anti-malarial activity (some as many
as 100 times as potent as quinine), and re-
search workers hope to find one not too
toxic for satisfactory use. Compounds of this
kind offer a very real promise of an actual
cure for relapsing malaria—the variety
which is seldom fatal but most widespread
and most difficult to terminate.
Dr. Campbell has received many letters
of congratulation from officials of the Office
(Continued on Page 26)
VoL 2
So. 3
13
PARENTS WROTE PRESIDENT ABOUT
COLD BATHS, TWO CIGARS A WEEK,
“EAR TROUBLE” AND JULES VERNE
Excerpts from letters to Father Morrissey
in his first years as eighth president of
Notre Dame
"My son has never been a bad boy! His worst fail-
ing was he did not want to go to school regular.
So, I thought 1 would put him in a school where he
would have to go regular. When I left him, I little
expected that he would stay, but I brought him there
in good faith 1... I was not trying to experiment with
you, as you say, but with the boy."
"Allow George to smoke one cigar twice a week."
"Why do I have to pay for Edward now? You never
explained to me that I should have to pay until Ed-
ward had finished I My son Edward did not come to
Notre Dame to experiment. His intention before he
left home was to stay until Christmas. I intended to
pay after Christmas, when he was through."
"Will you please see that Harvey is not required to
bathe in cold water, as the attack of congestion he
had last spring was due to taking a cold bath 1" .
"Johnny wrote home that he had something on his
ear. He says he cannot here (sic) well, but we
thought it was because he wants to come home.
Would you see his ear and tell us about it?"
"I am sorry to have to tell you something against
my dear son Edouard, but I hope that this little hint
will be for his best. He has an extraordinary love
for reading interesting books, viz.: novels, and
amongst them the relations of voyages of Julius
(sic) Verne are of great attraction to him. . . . You
will be able to help him, I am sure."	.
Fifth in a series of articles on the history of
the University of Notre Dame (adapted from
NOTRE DAME, ONE HUNDRED YEARS,
by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.)
ONE suspects, at times, that both the writ- i
ers and readers of history pile too much
of the story of human change at the “loco-
motive end” or the “caboose end” of the
100-year trains which we call “centuries.”
Not every passing phase dies with the “last
gasp” of a departing century, and not every
major innovation sprouts just as the “dawn”
of a new century breaks into its first full
light.
And so it has been at Notre Dame, where
the first 50 years (from November, 1842, to
the 19th Century’s last decade) were any-
thing but a skin to be shed or a scaffolding
to be razed. Those years poured into Notre
Dame’s lifestream the very essences of a uni-
versity now much larger, to be sure—but
still dedicated to the same devotion to God
and country and to the training of young
men in moral, responsible leadership which
were the sole reasons for it having been
founded.
And yet, in the case of Notre Dame, an
unusually large number of old and new land-
marks of time and change must, indeed,
have been discernible at the turn of the
century—as Notre Dame began its second
half-century. Almost imperceptibly, at the
time—but not quite:
They went right on distributing the mail
on the lawn beneath the trees; the prefect
of discipline went on intercepting letters
bearing South Bend postmarks, to nip bud-
ding romances with the girls of St. Mary’s,
and the boys went right on after Sunday
breakfast getting their Sunday papers from
the fellow with the white horse and flat cart
in front of Sorin.
But think of the latter months of 1893,
which would have been observed as Notre
Dame’s Golden Jubilee had it not become,
indeed, its “year of great sorrow.” Father
Walsh died at 40 on July 17, after 12 years
as president. Nine days later, Father Alexis
Granger died—the Notre Dame boys’ be-
loved father confessor through the Univer-
sity’s first 50 years, pastor of the church and
largely instrumental in having the new
(present) church erected. And then, on Oc-
tober 31, Father Sorin himself, Notre
Dame’s founder, passed on at nearly 80.
(Such sorrow always has marked Notre U
Dame’s 25-year observances: the University “
postponed its Golden Jubilee until 1895; it I
had been founded at the time of the Mexi-
14
Notre Dame

at Notre Dame
AFTER 1893, ITS YEAR OF GREAT SORROW,”
CAME NEW GREAT MEN • A FULLER CURRICULUM
• THE GROTTO • THE FIRST WIRELESS MESSAGE
can War; its 25th anniversary had fallen at
the close of the Civil War, its 50th in the
years leading up to the Spanish-American
War, its 75th in the course of World War
I and its 100th during World War II).
Father Walsh had asked on his deathbed
that he be succeeded as president by the
Rev. Andrew Morrissey, an Irish native who
came to the United States when 10, taught
a college algebra class at 12, came to Notre
Dame as director of studies when 25 and
became vice-president at 32. In a sense,
Father Morrissey was the first president in
his own right after Father Sorin; for Notre
Dame’s founder, even after leaving the pres-
idency to become provincial in 1865, had re-
mained its de facto leader. On the other
hand, Father Morrissey’s “fear” of wealthier
colleges and universities—a fear that Notre
Dame could not expect to compete with
those having so much greater endowments—
might have tended to deter the University’s
growth and progress had it not been for the
bold and enlightened spirit of some of his
increasingly scholarly faculty.
There were the Zahms, for instance:
Father John A. Zahm, who recruited
many top-notch students to the school
(many from Latin America), and who was
made a doctor of philosophy by the Vatican
in 1894, did much to uphold the Church
in the eyes of science—as so many of Notre
Dame’s scientists continued to do and are
doing today. Father Zahm was provincial
from 1898 to 1906—and there was a new,
decided emphasis upon true scholarship.
Albert F. Zahm, a Notre Dame graduate
in 1883 and member of its engineering fac-
ulty until 1893, was the virtual founder of
aeronautical science. His thinking led to the
world’s first wind tunnel at Notre Dame and
the world’s first wind tube (built by Zahm
in 1901), a man-carrying glider and a suc-
cessful model helicopter. He organized
America’s first International Aeronautic
Congress at Chicago in 1893, where he was
first to describe the modern method of
launching a plane (10 years before the
Wright Brothers’ flight at Kitty Hawk).
And there was Dr. Jerome J. Green who,
guided by the findings of Marconi and Du-
cretet in Europe, became in 1899 the first
American to send a wireless message—from
the church tower to St. Mary’s College. Dr.
Green was the first in Notre Dame’s part
of the country to experiment with X-ray,
and many doctors in the area brought pa-
tients to the campus for pictures of fractures
and internal disorders.
Father Nicholas Stoffel organized a stu-
dent production of Oedipus Tyrannus in the
original Greek in the same year, with the
Apostolic Delegate in the audience. Soon
after, he edited an Epitome of the New Tes-
tament in the original Greek—even did the
typesetting himself.
Economics and more history were added
to an expanded curriculum at about that
time, when Father Morrissey returned from
a trip to Europe. In 1900, a five-year jour-
nalism course was set up—consisting of four
years of English, politics, philosophy and
religion, with a fifth year (under one of sev-
eral skilled newspapermen) in reporting,
news-gathering, editorial writing and proof-
reading.
By now, there were 700 students at No-
tre Dame. Although relatively isolated, the
University had become well known. The stu-
dent body was being addressed not only by
the traditional Class II Egyptologists with
lantern slides, but by Professor VanDyke of
Princeton (author of The Other Wise Man),
William Howard Taft, William Jennings
Bryan, William Butler Yeats, Henry James
and many others.
Construction of Notre Dame’s famous
Grotto had begun in 1896, thanks to Father
Thomas Carroll, who had graduated in 1855
and decided in later years to sponsor a rep-
lica of the grotto at Lourdes on the grounds
of his alma mater. It was built of huge
boulders under the trees near the lake, with
the statue of Our Lady in a niche at the
right, and of Ste. Bernadette facing the
Blessed Virgin from below. The Grotto has
remained one of Notre Dame’s most cherish-
ed institutions.
The new gym, which had been dedicated
in 1899 by a triple track meet (ND 36, Chi-
cago 28, Illinois 25) burned the following
year. A new fireproof replacement was built
in 1901. Meanwhile, a “newfangled” system
of central heating for all the buildings was
developed—deemed “revolutionary” enough
that a model was sent in 1900 to the Paris
exposition.
Any history of the period would be in-
complete without mention of the new bak-
ery of 1902, for which the bakers were im-
ported from Holland. The special “breakfast
bun” for which it became famous prompted
a poem from the pen of J. P. McAvoy—
and at least one visitor used to take them
back to New York by the bag.
A wedding in the campus church in 1901
was, according to the Scholastic, student
weekly, “the social event of the month and
second to none in grandeur. Costumes of
the bride and groom were remarkably at-
tractive, the pretty blushing face of the
bride being set off by her bright red dress,
while the stately form of the groom was all
but majestic in his well-fitting seersucker
coat and checkered trousers.33
Class dances became a Notre Dame insti-
tution with the Senior Ball of 1905—and
the University got together with eight other
midwestern colleges at about that time to
exclude professionalism from football. Col.
John R. Fellows, New York District Attor-
ney, a non-Catholic and non-alumnus, in-
stituted a fellowship at Notre Dame in 1906
(Continued on Page 26)
Vol. 2
So. 3
15
Why Rent Control?
By TIGHE E. WOODS
A Statement of One Point of View by the Federal
Housing Expediter—a 1933 Notre Dame Graduate
The author, now 38, has been Federal
Housing Expediter since 1947. He was ac-
tive in Chicago property management for
nine years before becoming OPA examiner
in the Chicago Rent Control Office in 1942.
Mr. Woods was graduated from Notre Dame
in 1933. He was a Navy radar officer on an
attack transport from 1944 until the end of
World War II. He has three children.
rpENANTS and landlords are not the only
groups which should be concerned with
rent control.
We have rent controls for only one rea-
son: because there is a shortage of houses
which people of average income can afford
to buy or rent. We make no claim, of
course, that rent control helps bridge this
gap between demand and supply. I make
that rather obvious statement only because
we frequently hear certain people say that
we still have a housing shortage despite all
these years of rent control, the plain infer-
ence being that, somehow, rent control
has prolonged the housing shortage. The
fact that new housing construction has not
been under rent control for about two years
seems to be the best answer to that.
How, you may wonder, does this housing
shortage affect those who are neither land-
lords nor tenants? In the first place, down
through the ages, food and shelter have
been the two prime material necessities of
man. Rent control means making one of
those necessities available to people at prices
they can afford. In rent control your Gov-
ernment steps in and in a sense becomes its
brother’s keeper. And, since you are the
Government, you, consciously or not, are a
party to it. That of itself is why you, as
neither landlord nor tenant, should know
about and be interested in rent control.
But there is more to it than that. As so
often happens, what is good from a moral
or spiritual standpoint is also good from a
practical, business standpoint. That is true
with rent control. For some months now,
we have been making surveys in all cities
and areas under rent control to find out
what the housing situation, is in those lo-
calities. As a part of those surveys, we
ask local citizens how they feel about remov-
ing rent controls. It may surprise you, as it
did me at first, that most business people
want us to continue controls. That is true
of manufacturers, bankers, merchants —
even some real estate men.
That appears to run counter to the philos-
ophy that people act in the interest of their
class or group, the logic running something
like this: real estate men want rent con-
trols abolished; real estate men are business
men; therefore, all business men want rent
controls abolished.
But your manufacturer, your banker, your
merchant know what would happen if a
third of this country’s population suddenly
had to pay a lot more for rent than it does
now. The merchant knows what that would
do to the sale of food, clothing and durable
goods; the producer knows what such a
slump in sales would do to his mill or fac-
tory, and the banker realizes what such a
drop in business would do to our whole
economy.
Oh yes, I am familiar with the cry of the
real estate industry that landlords should
not be made to carry the burden of keeping
our economy on an even keel. As an ex-
landlord, I would be the first to agree were
that the case. But it isn’t, and I think I
can show you why it isn’t.
It may come as a surprise to many of
you that, despite all you’ve heard and read
about landlords going broke under rent con-
trol, landlords generally are at least as well
off under rent control as they were before
and certainly a large percentage are better
off. As Al Smith used to say, let’s look at
the facts:
Before the acute housing shortage, land-
lords ordinarily counted on a substantial loss
in scheduled rents from vacancies and non-
payment of rents. At the same time, they
were forced to spend considerable sums for
competitive items, such as decorating, in or-
der to retain old tenants and to attract new
ones. They were also obliged to make
minor repairs.
However, since the housing shortage be-
came critical, losses from vacancies and
non-payments have almost disappeared. At
the same time, the need for competitive ex-
penditures vanished and most tenants have
been forced to assume the cost of minor
repairs. Landlords’ incomes have also been
greatly increased by 1,746,000 individual
adjustments we have granted, by general
area rent increases affecting approximately
430,000 housing units made effective on the
recommendations of local rent advisory
boards, and by the 15 per cent leases signed
for 2,265,000 units under the 1947 and
1948 Acts. These factors more than offset
expenditures actually incurred by landlords
for essential items.
As a result, the net operating income of
landlords has increased substantially above
the pre-war level and foreclosures have de-
clined even below the low levels of the
prosperous war years.
Do I have any figures to back up that
statement? I have. A survey of 95 cities
by the accounting division of OPA found
that the net operating income for both large
and small rental units in 1946 was 24 to 31
per cent higher than the average for
1939-40. In 1946, the net operating income
had declined slightly from the war-time
peaks but was approximately the same as
the level in 1942 when most rent controls
were established. Although operating costs
have risen since 1946, there is every reason
to believe that they have been offset by
rent increases from individual and area-wide
adjustments and from 15 per cent leases.
No comprehensive studies of landlords’
operating position generally are available for
the years after 1946. However, in 1948 a
thorough survey was made in New York
City at the request of the local Rent Ad-
visory Board. This survey found that the
net operating income in 1947 was 9.7 per
cent higher than in 1943, the year in which
rent controls went into effect in that city.
In addition to these figures, I should like
to point out that for a long time now —
since 1944 in fact — we have had what we
inaccurately termed a “hardship” adjust-
ment. I say “inaccurately” because we
found that many people thought a landlord
had to be on the verge of bankruptcy be-
fore being able to qualify for an adjustment
under that provision. Actually, it provides
that a landlord can qualify for a rent in-
crease if he can show that he is making
less money now on his rental properties
than he made on them during his two best
years since 1939.
That is why I said a while ago that land-
lords generally are at least as well off now as
they were before rent control and many of
them are better off. The ones who came
into our area offices and showed that they
weren’t as well off were given increases that
made them so. And the figures I have cited
in general back me up in my statement.
16
Notre Dame
Why then, you may ask, has there been
all this talk about rent control putting land-
lords out of business when actually fore-
closures are at an all-time low? And why
this fight against rent control when land-
lords are doing as well under rent control
as they did before? I’ll tell you why, and
the answer is just as human as it is simple.
No one who has a business likes to be told
what he can charge for the things he sells
—■ especially when what he has to sell is in
short supply and the merchant knows his
customers have to buy it or else. It annoys
— to put it lightly — the owner of rental
housing property to see his neighbor charge
what the market (and future good will) will
bear for the articles this neighbor is selling,
while the Government prohibits him from
accepting a prospective tenant’s offer of
$100 for an apartment or house on which
the Government has fixed a legal maximum
rent of $60.
And so the owner of rental property com-
plains that he is being discriminated against;
that price controls have been lifted from
every other line of business but his own.
But he overlooks one important difference
between what he has "to sell and what his
neighbor has to sell. With few exceptions,
what his neighbor sells the customer can do
without or find somewhere else; what the
owner of rental housing property has to sell
—shelter — the homeless family must have.
I realize, of course, that the real estate
industry resents the charge or even the
implication that, in times like these, it would
make a killing if given the chance. How-
ever, I would like also to point out that
none of the national or local organizations
representing segments of the industry can
police its own members. As in every indus-
try, there are some — a majority — who
want to do the decent thing, and there are
others who are not bothered by such
scruples. Rent control protects the industry
against those who would give it a black eye.
I am sure that those of you who are
neither landlord nor tenant don’t want to
see either of the other two groups taken
advantage of under rent control. Neither do
I, and that is why I have been steering a
middle course; and that explains why, as
usually happens in such cases, I have been
catching it from both sides.
Landlords
Now I want to turn to landlords and tell
them in general what they can look for
under the present Act. Under the new
Act, it is not enough to stop at the break-
even point. We must make it possible for
a landlord to get a fair return above that.
Let me give you an example. Suppose
a landlord comes into an area rent office
and shows that his expenses amount to $300
but his income from the property only
amounts to $275. Under the previous Act,
he qualified for an adjustment under our
adjustment provision. Under that provision
he was granted an increase to bring his
rental income up to $300 — that is, to wipe
out his deficit. (That of course, did not
preclude him from seeking an additional
increase under another of our adjustment
provisions.) Now, under the new Act, we
are not to stop at a rent increase that will
merely enable the landlord to break even,
but we are to increase his rent to a fair
figure above that.
Another section in the new Act which ap-
parently appeals to the real estate industry
is so-called home rule or local option on de-
control. Under it, a state or municipality
can decide for itself whether rent controls
should continue in the areas over which they
have jurisdiction. My statement that this sec-
tion apparently appeals to the real estate in-
dustry is based on newspaper clippings I have
seen indicating considerable activity, espe-
cially on the part of local landlord groups,
in behalf of decontrol of cities and towns.
Under the Act, the governing body of a
city, town or village is required to hold a
public hearing after 10 days notice before it
can vote to remove controls. Approval of
the Governor is also required. In a number
of cities and towns local landlord groups
have requested local governing bodies to
hold such hearings. It is our policy in
making decontrol surveys to get the opinions
of city officials, business men, veterans, real
estate dealers and other civic leaders on the
need for continued rent control. As a rule,
when such a representative group of local
citizens agrees that rent controls are no
longer needed in a city, I am sure the time
has come to remove controls — whether by
my action or by action of a city governing
body.
The “local option” decontrol provisions
in the Act are in addition to the right of
local advisory boards to recommend decon-
trol and my right, as Housing Expediter, to
end controls on my own initiative — as I
did in more than a hundred counties or
parts of counties shortly after the new Act
was passed. There is this important dif-
ference between decontrol actions taken by
states or municipalities and those taken on
recommendation of local advisory boards or
on my own initiative: when a state or mu-
nicipality decontrols, it is permanent and
there is no provision in the Act by which
controls could be brought back even if con-
ditions arose making it desirable; when I
decontrol, either on recommendation of a
local board or on my own initiative, I can
restore controls if conditions warrant it. It
is because of the authority given me under
the new Act to recontrol that I took a
chance on removing controls in more than
a hundred counties. States and cities are
in the same situation under the present Act
as I was in under the previous Act; they
have to make certain they are right before
they act, because if they make a mistake
there’s no way they can correct it.
If a tenant were to ask me which of the
strengthening provisions of the Act I re-
garded as most important, I would reply
that it is the provision which gives the
Housing Expediter control over evictions.
The Expediter has not had that authority
since June 30, 1947. Lack of it made all
the difference in the world in an effective
compliance program. This is why:
Under the old Act, when a landlord
wanted to evict a tenant he merely had to
notify the tenant, citing as his reason one
of the grounds listed in the Act. It was a
matter between the landlord and the tenant,
plus the local court if necessary. We who
were charged with responsibility for admin-
istering federal rent control were not in on
this vital phase of the program.
A tenant, under the old Act, had the
right to sue a landlord for a rent over-
charge or to complain to his area rent
office that he was being overcharged. We
know that few of the tenants took action
against overcharges or reported such viola-
tions to our area offices. The average ten-
ant who was being overcharged was not re-
porting it because he was afraid of receiving
an eviction notice, possibly on a trumped-
up charge, if he did. He knew, if he re-
ceived an eviction notice, he had his choice
of two actions, neither of which he relished:
he could meekly submit and move out, or
he could go into court — and you know
how the average layman wants to keep out
of court.
The new Act has remedied that situation.
Few if any landlords are going to take a
chance on coming into an area rent office
to seek permission to evict a tenant merely
to intimidate a tenant who reported a rent
overcharge. On legitimate eviction cases, of
course, the landlord can pursue his legal re-
courses in an orderly manner.
Because this matter of evictions is so im-
portant in an effective rent control program,
I should like to tell you something about
the regulations we issued recently — exercis-
ing power given us by Congress to control
evictions in a manner that will not, as has
been charged, deprive a property owner of
the use of his property but at the same time
will protect a tenant against being evicted
as a reprisal for incurring his landlord’s
displeasure.
Grounds for Eviction
We have set up 12 separate and distinct
grounds for eviction. We divided them into
two groups. One group consists of seven
grounds on which a landlord may evict by
merely giving written notice to the tenant
and the area rent office and allowing the
time specified in the regulation for the ten-
ant to move out. Such notice must state
ground for eviction, facts supporting such
ground, and date tenant is required to va-
cate. If the ground is non-payment of rent,
the notice must also include a statement of
the amount of rent due and the period or
periods for which it is due.
We call this the non-certificate group. I
have already mentioned non-payment of
rent, which falls into this group. Not less
than three days notice is required under
our regulation. If local or state law per-
mits a longer period of notification to the
tenant, local law applies. Committing a
nuisance or using the premises for illegal
or immoral purposes is another eviction
ground in the non-certificate group. Ten
days’ notice is required. If a tenant violates
a substantial obligation of tenancy—-as, for
example, conducting a business in part of
the premises contrary to the terms of the
agreement the tenant has with the landlord
— he can be evicted on 10 days’ notice. If
(Continued on Page 26)
Vol. 2
No. 3
17
Vaccination Against Syphilis.
Better Diagnosis. Mag Stem
from Young ND Man9s Work
Dr. Nelson
J^ISCOVERY of (1) apparent natural antibodies against syphilis
in human blood, (2) the possible means of vaccination against
syphilis and (3) a new test for syphilis has been announced by Dr.
Robert A. Nelson, Jr., 26-year old Johns Hopkins University in-
structor who switched to “pre-med” in his senior year at Notre
Dame after completing three-fourths of Notre Dame’s four-year
engineering course.
The discovery “caused a stir,” as Time Magazine phrases it,
“at a symposium held in Washington (April, 1949) by the Ameri-
can Venereal Disease Association and the U. S. Public Health
Service.” In the words of the Washington (D. C.) Evening Star,
it is “a medical discovery regarded by specialists as highly sig-
nificant.”
If remaining obstacles are overcome, the way is open to the
world’s first anti-syphilis vaccine—and the conquering of this ve-
nereal disease in a manner similar to that in which the ravages of
smallpox and diphtheria have been reduced.
The first “break” in Dr. Nelson’s long hours of research came
just a year ago this month—at 3 o’clock on a hot July morning.
“Late sessions like that frequently happen with us,” he reports.
(With several colleagues, Dr. Nelson had been working six days
and nights a week). “We had been studying the survival of syphi-
lis spirochetes—attempting to learn their effect upon living organ-
isms. Doctors had suspected that there was some type of anti-
body present in syphilis victims, but nobody had been able to
demonstrate it.”
And then, early in that July morning—“it just happened; our
experiment paid off. Set up the day before, it was due to be
checked at 3 a. m. I was there alone. When 1 saw what had
happened, I waited ’til the others showed up at 9 to tell them
about it.”
This is what had happened, beyond any doubt—for the first
time:
Syphilis spirochetes (Treponema pallidum) had been “immobi-
lized”—apparently killed—by specific antibodies (countersub-
stances) existing in blood serum taken from a human syphilis
victim. Such antibodies were theretofore unknown.
Significantly, it was Dr. Nelson himself who made that very
experiment possible. For his earlier research had enabled living
spirochetes to be taken from laboratory rabbits. Until then, all
efforts to keep syphilis spirochetes alive outside the blood stream
had failed.
Dr. Nelson is quick to acknowledge that he doesn’t know just
what the newly-discovered antibodies actually are. They can’t be
18
Notre Dame
seen through a microscope. But he does know that syphilis spiro-
chetes are completely “immobilized”—rendered completely non-
infectious—when exposed to syphilitic blood serum for even a
few hours.
The new “immobilization test” thus made possible seems to.be
foolproof—which is more than can be said for the traditional
Wassermann test, only relatively reliable alternative. The Wasser-
mann, which has been used since 1906, frequently yields “false
positives”—indicating that patients have syphilis when, in reality,
they may have malaria, leprosy, pneumonia, meningitis, chickenpox,
measles or no disease at all. Under Dr. Nelson’s “immobilization
test,” however, no syphilis antibodies have been found in blood
serum taken from 50 patients suffering other diseases, or from 19
persons with presumed “false positive” Wassermanns.
And every one of 60 known syphilis victims was revealed by the
“immobilization test” to have the antibodies in his blood.
Chief remaining obstacle to broad, general use of the “immo-
bilization test”—and, perhaps, vaccination itself—is the difficulty
in obtaining enough virulent spirochetes from rabbits. One rabbit
can supply only enough for 15 or 20 “immobilization tests.” And
“the germs used in each experiment number in the millions/’ re-
ports the Washington Star, “and methods have yet to be found to
make the germs multiply outside the blood stream.”
Dr. A. S. Kahn, at Johns Hopkins from India on a fellowship
from his government, has been working with young Dr. Nelson
on the research—as have Drs. Judith A. Diesendruck and H. E. C.
Zheutlin—all under the supervision of Dr. Thomas B. Turner, a
pioneer in venereal disease research and a professor of bacteriology.
Science Holds No Vaccine
Against the Moral Diseases
rpHERE can be no more striking instance of the fact
that,°while scientific advance can be a blessing for
a world of moral and spiritual men, it can be a frighten-
ing thing in a world of immoral or amoral men, than this
arresting report on the research of Notre Dame’s young
Dr. Nelson.	:
Just as atomic energy may be used, for good purposes
or evil, so vaccination against syphilisKmight bless man-
kind with sounder health or curse it with an even greater
sexual promiscuity than that which prevails today.
It is an established fact that 3,200,000 Americans
now have syphilis—and a well-grounded suspicion that
many more thousands, who have not reported it, also
suffer from that dreaded venereal disease. And it is esti-
mated that nearly 30,000 American deaths were caused
by syphilis alone in 1948. It is profoundly to be hoped
that any techniques which stem from Dr. Nelson’s work
may vastly reduce the blindness, the crippling, the in-
sanity, the other suffering and the deaths directly attri-
butable to syphilis.
At the same time, this new hope for a weapon against
one scourge should serve to strengthen us in our deter-
mination to prevent another.
It has been a year of unusual evaluation of the extent
to which man’s religious, spiritual and social standards
have lagged behind his scientific progress.
It was Jacques Maritain, for example, who stated at
the M. I. T. Mid-Century Appraisal of the Social Impli-
cations of Scientific Progress: “The question faced by
the world is quite simple: Will men be able to submit
the use of science and the power of technique to wis-
dom?”
It was Winston Churchill who, on the same occasion,
insisted that “to'guard and cherish” the flame of Chris-
tian ethics “is still our highest guide . . . our first interest,
both spiritually and materially. The fulfillment of spiri-
tual duty in our daily life is vital to our survival. Only
by bringing it into perfect application can we hope to
solve for ourselves the problems of this world, and not
of this world alone.”
As expressed in Notre Dame’s Guide for Benefactors,
The Substance of Things Hoped For, “Notre Dame is
one of relatively few universities still insisting upon the
indissoluble nature of leadership, responsibility and moral
principles—still training men not only for standards of
living, but in standards of life—still concerned not only
with the training of good doctors, lawyers, architects
and chemists, but even more with the training of good
men who are also good doctors, lawyers, architects and
chemists.”
In the midst of such developments as Dr. Nelson’s
and the capture of atomic energy, it becomes all the
more imperative that the world redouble its efforts to
keep moral and spiritual values apace of scientific
advances.
Vol. 2
No. 3
19
Experiment in Altruism
A Typical Instance of Notre Dame’s Commerce Council
Accomplishing Its Purpose: “To Bring Men of Achieve-
ment into Closer Association with the Work of the
College of Commerce and to Enable Them to Share the
Responsibility of Training Tomorrow’s Leaders.”
By JOHN P. WALKER
The author, graduated from Notre Dame
in June, was editor and managing editor of
the Dome, student annual, in 1947 and ’48,
respectively. He was feature and photo-
graphic editor of the Scholastic, student
weekly; Student Council secretary; Com-
merce Forum president, and listed in Who’s
Who Among Colleges and Universities. He
plans to enter the publishing or advertis-
ing field.
rpHE high chime of Sacred Heart Church
-*■ rang through the rainy darkness. It was
4:15 a.m. Corridor lights shone dimly from
the residence halls. Nothing stirred.
Nothing except 30 undergraduates — try-
ing to be on time to meet their bus as it
splashed around the circle at the campus
entrance at 4:30.
These were the members of Notre Dame’s
Commerce Forum (a group which meets
every two weeks to hear and discuss a paper
prepared by one of its members on sub-
jects ranging from the tariff to moral im-
plications of federal aid to education). On
this occasion, the Forum was setting out on
its second annual industrial tour under the
gracious sponsorship of James Gerity, Jr.,
President of the Gerity-Michigan Corpora-
tion, Adrian, Mich., a member of the Ad-
visory Council for the Notre Dame College
of Commerce.
The Council, consisting of 28 prominent
American business and industrial leades, was
organized a little more than a year ago “to
bring men of achievement into closer asso-
ciation with the work of the College of
Mr. Gerity
Commerce and to enable these men to share
the responsibility of training tomorrow’s
leaders.”
The Commerce Forum was met at his
sleek Adrian plant by Gerity himself and
Scott Hager, his Director of Industrial Re-
lations. The company’s top officials attended
a lunch for the Notre Dame boys, and ex-
plained their tasks and some of the prob-
lems which faced industry in a growing
buyers’ market.
Following a tour of the Gerity plant, in
groups of four and five and an hour or so
of relaxation and refreshment at the Gerity
home, the Forum was taken to Detroit’s
Dearborn Inn for dinner and several hours’
practical, informal instruction by Harley
Earl, General Motors Vice-President in
charge of design, and other automotive offi-
cials.
Early the next morning, the boys attended
the Ford Motor Company’s merchandising
school, under the direction of Vice-President
McGinnis, a Notre Dame alumnus. Here
they studied an instructional motion picture
on proper and improper methods of con-
ducting an automobile dealership.
After lunch, in Flint, Assistant Chief En-
gineer Ragsdale of the Buick Division of
General Motors explained the operation of
Buick’s torque converter (or “Dynaflow
Drive,” as the advertising and promotional
material calls it)—then, with other engi-
neers, led a tour of Buick’s motor assembly,
testing, Dynaflow, final assembly and engi-
neering departments.
The boys had walked 12 miles getting in-
valuable close-ups of modern industry.
In saying goodbye to them, Gerity gen-
erously added:
“I get a lot from my exposure to such
top-notch young college men as you mem-
bers of the Commerce Forum. I’ve learned a
lot from you in these two days.”
But Jim Gerity wasn’t trying to get any-
thing. He was giving something: “a chance,”
as one of the members put it, “to see mod-
ern industrial units and their methods of
operation; a chance to talk with department
heads and workmen; a chance to learn a
little more about where and how and why
we might fit in after graduation; a chance
to get that ‘extra something’ which it takes
more than a classroom to provide.”
On the trip back, the tired Forum mem-
bers made it pretty clear to each other that
they all regarded the two-day opportunity
as one made possible by Gerity’s “experi-
ment in altruism”—and that they were all
deeply appreciative of his generosity and of
the great deal it had enabled them to learn.
20
Notre Dame

Spring Sports
By JAMES BUTZ
strong the following week to cop the Indi-
ana State Meet against rugged competition.
Other appearances will find the Irish at
Milwaukee in the Central Collegiate Con-
ference meet and the NCAA in late June.
Coach Elvin (Doc) Handy has just com-
pleted his seventh year of coaching the
tracksters.
The author, graduated from Notre Dame in June, now is
in the publicity and public relations department of the Wilson
Sporting Goods Company, Chicago. A Journalism majoi and a
native of Akron, O., he had assisted Sports Information Direc-
tor Charles Callahan in Notre Dame’s Department of Public
Information, and was- active on the Scholastic and Dome, stu-
dent weekly and annual.
BASEBALL
Riding high on the crest of a victorious
season, Notre Dame’s baseball team has an-
nexed 18 wins against 6 defeats with play-
offs set for NCAA post-season contests.
Coach Jake Kline's batmen have undertaken
one of the most difficult schedules ever at-
tempted by a Gold and Blue nine. Eighteen
games were played with Big Ten teams,
with Notre Dame winning 12 of the con-
tests. In the next to final scheduled game,
Purdue, Big Ten baseball leader, bowed to
the Irish in a 5-4 setback.
Outstanding pitchers for Notre Dame in-
cluded Walt Mahannah, right-hander from
Memphis, Tenn., John (Lefty) Campbell,
Lowell, Mass., junior, and Dick Smullen, a
senior. Dick Maher, catcher, and son of
the Western Michigan College baseball
coach, has been pacing the hitters. Dick
Giedlin, soph first baseman, was the main-
spring in Kline's attack throughout the
season. In connection with a remarkable
record, Notre Dame has been selected to
participate in the NCAA playoffs during
June. They will compete against Purdue in
District 4 drawings.
Among the teams met by Notre Dame
there were the following diamond standouts:
Indiana, Iowa, Minnesota, Cincinnati, Terre
Haute Phillies (professional), Wisconsin,
Michigan, Illinois, Chicago, Ohio State,
Western Michigan, Northwestern, Pensacola
Naval, and Purdue.
•
OUTDOOR TRACK
John Helwig, shotputter, Bill Fleming,
hurdler, Jack Murphy, javelin and Captain
Bill Leonard, relays, paced the Notre Dame
track team through a stiff outdoor schedule.
The Irish took the Southern Relays, at Birm-
ingham, Ala., on April 9, and two weeks
later dropped a meet to Michigan State.
The thinclads participated in the Drake Re-
lays, won over Pittsburgh on Cartier Field
and nosed out Missouri on the latter’s home
ground. Penn State defeated the Irish in a
close meet, but Notre Dame came back
TENNIS
The loss of last year’s star performers,
the Evert brothers, didn’t prevent Notre
Dame’s present tennis team from compiling
an enviable record of six wins and three de-
feats in regular season competition. The
1949 aggregation was led by Co-Captains
Bob David and Jim Rodgers. Gene Bittner,
junior, and veteran monogram winner, was
an outstanding point-getter in singles. The
Irish won over Purdue, Western Michigan,
Detroit, Western Reserve, Wisconsin and
Marquette. Northwestern, Michigan and
Michigan State handed defeats to the ND
netters. It marked the tenth year that Walt-
er Langford has coached the tennis squad
and his teams have won 74 matches while
losing only 14 in that period.
•
GOLF
Father George Holderith’s golf squad
achieved 6 wins against three losses during
regular season play. They were runners-up
in the Indiana Collegiate tournament at La-
fayette. Captain George Stuhr and his mates
won over Washington U. (St. Louis), Wis-
consin, Purdue, St. Ambrose, Michigan
State and Detroit. Minnesota, Northwestern
and Indiana defeated the Irish. Father Hol-
derith has been coaching golf at Notre
since 1933, having had unbeaten seasons in
1933, ’34 and ’42.
Gene Biittner	Coach Kline under a belfry of bats.
lack Murphy

JESSAMYN WEST HERE FOR
WRITERS' CONFERENCE
Miss Jessamyn West, one of the nation’s
best known short story writers and novelists,
was a member of the staff at the Writers’
Conference which was held recently at the
University of Notre Dame.
Her short stories have seven times been
chosen in the year’s best short story collec-
tions.
Other staff members included: Henry T.
Volkening, New York literary agent and
critic; Richard Sullivan, Professor of Eng-
lish at Notre Dame, whose latest novel,
“First Citizen” recently was published; John
T. Frederick, Professor of English at Notre
Dame, conductor for seven years of the pro-
gram “Of Men and Books” over the Co-
lumbia Broadcasting System and editor of
“The Midland” for twenty years; Rev. Leo
L. Ward, C.S.C., Head of the Department
of English at Notre Dame, who is a short
story writer, critic and anthologist; and
'John Frederick Nims, Professor of English at
Notre Dame, one-time editor of “Poetry”
and author of poems that have appeared in
national magazines.
Sessions at the Writers’ Conference in-
cluded workshops in poetry, short story and
novel.
George Stuhr
THEN, AS NOW
“Notre Dame had but one plea to make,
and the plea was successful, ‘Will those
who love the young, and who desire to see
them brought up in the fear and love of
God, help us in the good work we have to
do’.”—Story of the disastrous fire of April
23, 1879, from Notre Dame, One Hun-
dred Years.
IT'S ALL IN THE FAMILY
The University of Notre Dame is one of
the few major universities in the United
States with no fraternities. It is the feel-
ing of University officials that division of
the student body into fraternity groups
would tend to break down the unique fami-
ly spirit which exists at Notre Dame.
RARE BOOKS DONATED AT
REQUEST OF MINDSZENTY

Twenty-two large volumes of rare Latin
texts have been presented to the Mediaeval
Institute at the University of Notre Dame
by the St. Stephen Academy of Budapest,
Hungary.
The gift was made as a gesture of re-
spect and admiration for the work of the
Mediaeval Institute and at the request of
Joseph Cardinal Mindszenty, subject of
world-wide controversy in a recent Com-
munist purge trial in Hungary.
The books, of various descriptions, deal
chiefly with the relation of Hungarian his-
tory to the civilization of the mediaeval
West.
"SOVIET SATELLITES"
“Soviet Satellites,” a study of politics in
Eastern Europe, has been published by the
“Review of Politics,” political science
quarterly at the University of Notre Dame.
The book is edited by Dr. Waldemar
Gurian, Professor of Political Science at No-
tre Dame and Editor of the “Review of
Politics.” With an introduction written by
Dr. Andrew Gyorgy, of Yale University, the
book features articles by experts on world
affairs.
Among articles appearing in “Soviet Sa-
tellites,” parts of which are published in the
April issue of the “Review of Politics,” are:
“Church and State in Hungary: Background
of the Cardinal Mindszenty Trial,” by Ste-
phen Kertesz of the Yale University Law
School; “U. S. Foreign Policy and the Sa-
tellites of USSR,” by Robert G. Neumann,
of the University of California at Los An-
geles; “Constitutional Trends in Eastern
Europe, 1945-48,” by Cyril E. Black, of
Princeton University; and “Soviet Concept
of Satellite States,” by Sergius Yakobson, of
the Library of Congress.
The new book is priced at one dollar,
with a special discount for quantity orders.
"SOUTH BEND TRIBUNE" AWARDS
ANNUAL JOURNALISM PRIZES
F. A. Miller, President and Editor of the
“South Bend Tribune”, has established an
annual award in the Department of Jour-
nalism at the University of Notre Dame, it
was announced recently by the Rev. John
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre
Dame.
The $100 award, to be known as the “F.
A. Miller Prizes for Excellence in Practical
Journalism”, will be given for outstanding
work done on “The Journalist”, weekly ex-
perimental newspaper published by students
in the Department of Journalism at Notre
Dame.
The award will be divided into five $20
prizes to be presented for excellence in
makeup, news writing, feature writing, edit-
ing and photography among Notre Dame
journalism students who publish “The Jour-
nalist.” Members of the “South Bend Trib-
une” will judge the students’ work and de-
termine recipients of the prizes.
ND PRAISED BY LOUISVILLE U.
Dr. John W. Taylor, President of the
University of Louisville:
“I am sold on the value of intercollegiate
athletics. Teamwork won us the last war
and teamwork will make Louisville a great
university like Notre Dame. That’s just
what I want.”—Chicago Tribune.
COHENS AND KELLEYS
Although the University of Notre Dame is
a Catholic school, approximately eight per
cent of the student body is non-Catholic.
In fact, among its graduates are Protestant
ministers and a Jewish rabbi.
Vol. 2 • Ao. 3	23





doctors of learning turn to eye, ear and throat . . .
A Look, at
Audio-Visual
Teaching Aids at Notre Dame
J^”OT only to enhance the effectiveness of University instruction generally, but also to
train undergraduates how to teach with the assistance of radio, recordings, slides
and movies, Notre Dame’s Audio-Visual Center was inaugurated only as a “special
project” in early 1948 by the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies at Notre
Dame.
Within four months, however, it had attained official status as an integral part of
many aspects of the whole University program. It is supervised by Orville R. Foster,
M.A., ’44, who, after 22 years in radio work, came to Notre Dame as a part-time
instructor in 1939.
The Audio-Visual Department hopes in time to supply films and recordings with
which to supplement the teaching of every course in the University’s curriculum, and
eventually to develop a film and record library capable of supplying Catholic universities,
colleges, high schools and elementary schools throughout the Midwest.
Films closely correlated with most subjects in the present curriculum, designed to add
still greater breadth to the educational backgrounds of Notre Dame undergraduates, now
are shown daily to faculty and student body alike.
Visual aids in study of Psychology and teacher training.
Two students and freshman coach film 400-foot movie on
baseball fundamentals.

Nuns learn to operate projectors in Summer School session.
President Cavanaugh leads daily student-body recitation of
Rosary on Campus Radio Station WND. Scene will be in-
corporated into new movie on student life. Mr. Foster photo-
graphs group.
with aid of
Father Maurice
Sullivan, Army chaplain, with on-the-air
class in Education.
Audio-Visual aids assist this Biology class in study of heart.
Aeronautical engineers study a smoke tunnel
Audio-Visual equipment.

Architecture student is photographed at work.
NOTRE DAME WAR ON CANCER
(Continued front Page 13)
of Scientific Research and Development. He
was invited to present some of his findings
to a Symposium of Anti-malarials, conduct-
ed bv the division of medical chemistry,
American Chemical Society, in April of
1946, in Atlantic City. Dr. Campbell is
chairman of that division of the society. Re-
sults of the Notre Dame research arc em-
bodied in a number of published scientific
papers.
Meanwhile, Dr. Campbell is directing
other research into the possibility of anti-
tubereular drugs.
The son of a pharmacist, a native of
Michigan and a graduate of the University
of Chicago M928\ where he met his wife,
Barbara, Dr. Campbell, teith his wife-assis-
tant. is co-author of a forthcoming book,
The Chemistry of Quinoline. and of more
than 25 published papers on medicinals. He
came to Notre Dame in 1936 from the Uni-
versitv of Illinois, where he had done re-
search on svnthctic Vitamin D and the yel-
low pigment (gossvpoD of cottonseed meal.
Earlier, he conducted research on aliphatic
hvdroearbons at Pennsylvania State College.
He received his Ph.D., degree from the Uni-
versity of Chicago in 1932.
Dr. Campbell is listed in Ametican Men
of Science and is a member of the American
Chemical Society, Indiana Chemical Society,
Indiana Academy of Science, American As-
sociation for the Advancement of Science
and Sigma Xi, honorary scientific society.
WHY RENT CONTROLS?
. Continued Torn Page 17 >
a tenant won't let a landlord inspect the
premises or show them to a prospective pur-
chaser, he can be evicted on a month's
notice • - unless, of course, the landlord is
unreasonable about it or unless the tenant
has a rental agreement with the landlord
not permitting inspection or showing. If a
tenant's lease has expired and all occupants
of a rental unit are subtenants, the landlord
max repossess on two months' notice. Two
months' notice is also required in the re-
maining two grounds in this non-eertificate
group: where the housing accommodations
arc part of a compam housing development
and the tenant no longer works for the com-
pam. and where a state or citx- acquires
housing accommodations for the purpose of
making a public improxement.
1'he certificate group consists of five
grounds under xvhieh evictions max- be ob-
tained only after the landlord has petitioned
hts area rent office and that office finds that
the proposed eviction ts proper. Under this
group an owner max seek repossession of his
property for one of the following reasons:
he wants it for his personal use er for the
use of a member of his family: he has con-
tracted to buv the propertv and wants it
for his own use or the use of a member of
hts tamilv; he wants to remodel for contin-
ued use as housing accommodations or he
wants to demolish it: he wants to withdraw
it from the rental market, er it is owned bv
a religious, charitable or educational insti-
tution which wishes to use the premises to
house its staff. In all but one of the cer-
tificate grounds the waiting period allowed
the tenant is three months. The exception
is withdrawal from the rental market, in
which the tenant is allowed six months.
Another strengthening provision of the
new Act which I will mention only briefly
gives the Expediter the right to sue for three
times the amount of an overcharge. He had
not had that authority since June 30, 1947.
As a result of this restored compliance
authority coupled with our control over evic-
tions, I confidently expect to see the number
of rent violations drop sharply.
In short, this new rent Act goes right
down the middle, protecting landlords
against rents that would deny them a fair
profit, and protecting tenants against being
charged a higher rent than the fair net
operating income adjustment allows. And
the Act at the same time gives both tenants
and landlords an equal right to appeal from
decisions by the Housing Expediter. All
in all, it is a good law and I believe that
both landlords and tenants will be happier
under it than they were under the previous
Act.
SCHOLARSHIP AID GIVEN
TO NEEDY STUDENTS
Notre Dame offers 86 scholarships
and scholarship grants, through the
generosity of alumni, non-alumni
friends and the University, to deserv-
ing students. However, it was only a
half-century ago that the first scholar-
ship was awarded, when Dr. Edward
Johnson, of Watertown, Wisconsin,
donated a fund of $4,000, the income
of which was to aid in the support of
one student annually. In that same
year. 1899. the Rev. Thomas Carroll,
of Oil City. Pennsylvania, bequeath-
ed 85,000 to be used for “educating
a needy student." Father Carroll also
provided financial aid for the erection
of the campus Grotto—a replica of
the world-famed shrine in Lourdes,
France. The University is anxious to
increase scholar-ship awards through
the assistance of interested benefactors.
A NEW CENTURY AT
NOTRE DAME
Combmed /•v”: Page 15)
—one of the first of many such instances
of those outside the Church and the Uni-
versity choosing Notre Dame to receive
tunds with which to supplement its contri-
bution to the training of many young Amer-
icans in moral, responsible leadership.
Father Morrissev resigned as president in
1905. and was succeeded by the Rev. John
W. Cavanaugh, who, in 19c 6, dedicated a
statue of Father Sorin . . .
“in the name of those Christian educa-
tors who believe, as he believed, that
the heart ot culture is culture of the
neart and that the soul of improve-
ment is improvement of the soul."
PHYSICS PROF DEVELOPS
ELECTRONIC POWER DEVICE
A new type of cathode (source of elec-
trons), which for a fraction of a second
will generate nearly six times as much power
in a vacuum tube as the largest power sta-
tion in the United States, has been develop-
ed by Dr. Edward A. Coomes, Professor of
Physics at the University of Notre Dame.
The cathode, which is the most powerful
low-temperature source of electrons ever de-
veloped, is used particularly in radar tubes
and in all places where microwave power is
used. During World War II, Dr. Coomes
xvas on leave from Notre Dame to work on
cathodes used in radar tubes. He recently
received a government citation for war-time
research.
It is significant that the cathode develop-
ed by Dr. Coomes is approximately 600
times more powerful than any which existed
prior to the outbreak of World War II. The
new cathode, developed by the Notre Dame
scientist, helped to make possible the devel-
opment of electron tubes capable of gen-
erating approximately 6,000 kilowatts. Dr.
Coomes stated that this cathode is useable
only in situations in which power is turned
on and off within much less than one sec-
ond. Otherwise, he explains, the power gen-
erated would melt the tube in xvhich the
cathode is used.
TWO SORTS OF DANGERS
A citizenry that does not understand the
sort of world it lives in, that does not have
a sense of the real values of civilization,
that is blind to the ideals by which xve live
is a poor defense indeed. Universities deal
xvith these things. Dictators realize this well
enough. When they come to power they
either mutilate them or shut their doors.
They are afraid of their atmosphere and
spirit. Do we, as free men, sense their value
keenly enough to see them, not only as step-
ping stones to careers, but as foundation
stones of democracy itself? That is perhaps
the most important question xvhich concerns
the educational world today. Dangers are of
two sorts. Financial insecurities are obvious
in this day of decreased gixfing ability and
reduced returns on investments. More subtle
are the dangers from those xvho xvould re-
gard proper academic freedom as something
sinister and subversive.—Fiom Report of
Chancellor H. IT. Chase, Neto York Uni-
veisity.
N. D. STUDENT PAYS 70%
OF EDUCATION COSTS
The student at Notre Dame pays 70%
of the cost of education. The balance is
made up by gifts from alumni and non-
alumni, income from limited endowment,
income from auxiliary projects, and by the
unremunerated services of the priests and
brothers of the Congregation of Holy Gross,
who serve as teachers and administrators
xvithout salary.
20
.Torre Dame
IN BEHALF OF THE MORAL RESPONSIBILITIES OF SCIENCE IN THE ATOMIC AGE
The New
Science Center
gratefully welcomes the early assistance already gen-
erously assured (as of May 6, 1949) by the following
All-Star Sponsors
RACINE ND CLUB
Polymer Phys. Lab.
$9,653
KRESGE FOUNDATION
Electronics Lab.
$25,000
Already starring—but still casting—the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame Foundation proudly
presents those who generously have under-
taken the spopsorship of rooms in the new
Science Center. From these rooms—intellec-
tual molds in which academic sculptors pro-
duce not monuments but men—will come-
streams of youth scientifically and morally
equipped to lead the world you hope for
and work for and pray for. These are living
"Phidian columns"—to support a civilization,,
not crumble with one.
There is room for YOUR generosity—there
are ROOMS for you in fact. As in the scien-
tific miracle at Palomar, where stars are
seen which human eyes never have seen be-
fore, we hope that our firmament will fill
with the names of others who, like these
early benefactors, will'wish to commemmo-
rate their Faith in Enlightened Science.
CINCINNATI ND CLUB
Inorganic Chem.
Research Lab.
$14,157
LOUISVILLE ND CLUB
Chern. Classroom
$8,151
DALLAS ND CLUB
Nuclear Phys. Room
$21,879
MILWAUKEE ND CLUB
Advanced Physics '
Laboratory
$25,000
LEO R. MdNTYRE
Alumnus, '28
Allentown, Pa.
Physics Dark Room
$1,716
WASH. (DC) ND CLUB
, Chem. Classroom
$11,583
COLUMBUS (O.) ND CLUB
Chem. Research Room
$4,076
■n
N. J. ND CLUBS
Chern. Research Room
and Dark Room
$14,981
THOMAS H. ZOSKY
. s. (Non-Alumnus Friend)
Peoria, III.
Work, Dark Rooms ,
$6,800
\ EVANSVILLE ND CLUB /
Physics Dark Room
$2,059
ssSB

GR. RAPIDS ND CLUB /
Chemistry Lecture /
Preparation Room / .
$8,873
BALTIMORE ND CLUB
Chern. Instrument
Room
$5,577
CLEVELAND ND CLUB
. Nuclear Phys. Roam
a $37,945
PHILA. ND CLUB
Phys. Dark Room
$5,772
ALFRED E. TONTI
(Non-Alumnus Friend)
\ Columbus, Ohio
s Math. Unit
$3,224
i	’	’
RHODE 1SL. ND CLUB
Chern. Micro-Film
\ Reading Room /
5	$3,647 t
COL. HENRY CROWN
X (Non-Alumnus Friend)
Chicago, 111.
s Organic
- I Chem. Lab. I
IOWA ND CLUB
Phys. Chem. Research /
Room /
1	$11,154	’
AVE MARIA PRESS