Notre Dame
FALL • I 949
Klockenkemper
Machnikowski
Our ^stclfter
Moire Danie our Mother,
Tender strong a net true.
Proudly in the leavers,
Gleans IhejoU and blue,
Glow's nuntie doals thee,
Golden is iky fame,
Md wr hearts fewer,
Praise l/tee, Dhotre Dante,
hut oar heads forever,
Dre thee, Jtolre Dane.
McCarthy
Atom Smashing
Bernard. Waldman ....... 3
John T. Frederick
Edward Fischer........................7
Trustees^ Advisory Councils
Attend Joint Meeting........................8
The President’s Page
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of
Notre Dame...........................9
Career Detectives........................10
A Golden Era at Notre Dame
(Sixth in a Series').................12
Football Forecast
Ralph Wright..........................14
ND’s First A.B. Degree^ Class of ’49
John P. Carroll.......................16
Vetville Crusaders
Robert J. Vierhile ....... 18
Notre Dame Scientist Registers
Victory in Typhoid Fever Research
Raymond J. Donovan....................20
Today and Tomorrow in Science ... 23
VOL. 2 • NO. 4
Ibanez
Tlfhe Ijnwer^it^ of 'Notre Dame,
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle-Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) • Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame
Published quarterly by the University of Notre Dame at Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second-
class matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor • John N. Gackley, Jr., ’37, Managing Editor
Contributors' views do not necessarily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in this magazine should be addressed to the Editor.
VOL. 2
FALL • I 949
NO. 4
Atom Smashing
r	A- A	-
Important Research With Electrostatic Generator
Conducted On Campus During Past Decide
J^INE smashing fullbacks have long
been traditional at Notre Dame, but
few of the thousands watching grid
games this fall in the Irish stadium wiU_
be aware that one of the world’s most’
powerful electrostatic generators (atom
smasher) is located in a nearby campus
building.
To obtain the complete story of nu-
clear physics at Notre Dame we must
go back to the fall of 1933 when a newly
appointed physics instructor, Dr. George
B. Collins, was touring the Engineering
Building. Upon seeing a large unoccu-
pied laboratory, more than 40 feet in all
dimensions, Collins turned to his guide,
Father Steiner, and exclaimed, “This is
an ideal room for the erection of an elec-
trostatic generator and accelerator.” Col-
lins was speaking of a machine that nad
just been developed by Dr. Robert Van
de Graaff at the Massachusetts Institute
of Technology.
The science of nuclear physics was
then in its infancy. There were at most
only a half dozen apparatus pieces of all
types in this country that could produce
nuclear disintegrations (the scientific
term for atom smashing). None of the
equipment needed, or even major parts,
could be obtained commercially. All had
to be made in the laboratory. In 1934
Dr. Collins started the construction ‘of
The author \receiyed^A.B. and Ph.D.
degrees .from New.YorkUniversity, the
latter fhayinp~been awardedmn 1939. He
, joined the Physics Department at the
University of Notre Ddmff'in September,
1938 as a Research Associate. Between
October, 1942 and March, 1943, Dr.
Waldman was an Official Investigator
for the Office of Scientific Research and
Development at Notre Dame. The Uni-
versity granted a leave of absence to
him in March, 1943 to engage in atomic
bomb research at the Los Alamos, N.
M. Scientific Laboratory. Later he was
an official scientific observer for the
Manhattan District Project during the
first atomic bomb explosion at Alamagor-
do, N. M., on July 16, 1945. Dr. Waldman
observed the efficiency of atomic bombing
tinder combat conditions on August 6,
1945, when he watched a mushroom
cloud rise over Hiroshima, Japan, from
an airplane accompanying the bomber on
this world-shaking mission. He returned
to Notre Dame as Associate Professor of
Physics in October 1945, and is now in
charge of the Nuclear Physics Labora-
tory.
Notre Dame’s first electrostatic genera-
tor. It was completed in 1937 and pro-
duced 1,500,000 volts.
Producing a high voltage on a genera-
tor is a far cry from atom smashing.
• Collins, then, put his efforts on the con-
struction of an accelerating tube that
would permit electrons (the smallest
particles that we know which carry a
negative electric charge) to be released
at the high voltage terminal (large
spherical shell) and then be accelerated
by the high voltage to a grounded end.
These electrons would travel through an
evacuated tube in order to prevent col-
lisions with air molecules and attain a
speed comparable to 95 per cent of light
—a speed of 168,000 miles per second!
It is these high speed electrons or atomic
bullets that are used to produce nuclear
transmutations.
During the spring of 1938 the accel-
erator was completed and a beam of
electrons accelerated through a voltage
of l,5C0,000 volts was obtained. This was
the highest energy electron beam ever
produced artificially in any Idbora'ory
in the world! Nearly all of the existing
accelerators were using other- projectiles
than electrons. Most of them used pro-
tons which are hydrogen atoms with its
lone electron removed. Protons could
produce disintegrations with ease but
electrons were not capable of a similar
action. It was, therefore, a question of
prime importance to see whether it was
Vol. 2
No. 4
3
Notre Dame's atom smasher, located in Science Hall. Weighing 50 tons this generator is 40 feet long
and 8 feet in diameter. The 202 aluminum hoops distribute charges uniformly and prevent sparking.

possible to transmute matter by high
speed electrons.
In the fall of 1938, the writer* joined
the Physics Department staff and assist-
ed Collins in his search for disintegra-
tions by electrons. One day early in Janu-
ary of 1939 this group bombarded metal-
lic beryllium (one of the lightest metallic
elements) with electrons of 1,700,000
volts energy and observed the emission
of neutrons from the beryllium. Neutrons
are elementary particles just like pro-
tons and electrons but they have no elec-
tric charge and weigh 1800 times as
much as the electron. It was definitely
proven that the beryllium would disinte-
grate into two helium gas atoms and
one neutron, only when the bombarding
energy of the electrons was over
1,630,000 volts. This was the first time
man had ever produced a nuclear' trans-
mutation by electron bombardment!
When electrons of high energy strike
any type of matter* their speed is lessen-
ed and eventually they stop. Most of
their energy appears as heat in the tar-
get material but some of the energy,
about 5 per cent, is in the form of radia-
tion called X-rays. These X-rays are ex-
ceedingly penetrating and very danger-
ous biologically because they produce
severe burns and destroy tissue. In fact,
a complete body dose of high energy X-
rays would be fatal. However, with ade-
quate precautions it is possible to utilize
the X-rays without exposing the experi-
menters themselves.
Immediately following the electrodis-
integration experiments another new
phenomenon was observed. The X-rays
produced by bombarding a lead target
with l,500,0C0 volt electrons were allow-
ed to strike an indium foil (indium is a
metallic element that is associated with
zinc and cadmium in nature). After* a
half - hour bombardment radioactivity
was detected in the indium foil by an
instrument known as a Geiger counter.
However, the indium had not been disin-
tegrated or transformed into a new ele-
ment. The indium had absorbed the X-
rays and had become more energetic or
as a physicist would say, it was “excit-
ed.” This excited indium did not lose its
energy of excitation instantaneously like
most elements do, but every 4% hours,
half of the excited indium nuclei decayed
to normal indium nuclei with the re-
emission of X-rays, which had been de-
tected by the Geiger counter. Excited
nuclei of this type are called metastable
nuclei and these experiments were the
first to show that metastable nuclei can
be produced by X-ray bombardment. It
should be mentioned that simultaneously
and independently two French physicists
also excited indium by X-rays.
The obtaining of metastable states in
nuclei by X-ray irradiation opened up a
points to the high
background.
can be
TT
1937. It
erected.
While Dr. Miller looks on. Dr. Waldman
voltage terminal. The outer steel tank, in
moved on trolley tracks.
Original electrostatic generator at Notre Dame built in
has been disassembled since present atom smasher was

new field which would lead to a better
understanding of X-ray production and
the nature of nuclei. It became apparent
to the Notre Dame group that a new
higher voltage accelerator was necessary.
The limitations on the existing machine
were quite severe. Between May and No-
vembex- the humidity was too high to
permit operation because the electric
charge escaped from the high voltage
terminal through the moist conducting
air. Also, higher voltages could only be
obtained with a larger machine and
that meant a larger room, which was
impractical.
These difficulties were solved by Dr.
R. G. Herb at the University of Wiscon-
sin who had enclosed an entire electro-
static generator and accelerator tube in
a steel pressure tank. The tank was
pumped up to ten atmospheres pressure
with dry air so that the humidity prob-
lem was solved. The high pressures also
afforded an increased electric breakdown
strength which resulted in higher volt-
ages being obtained in a smaller space.
During the summer of 1940 work was
begun on the construction of a new pres-
sure electrostatic generator patterned
after the Wisconsin machine. It was
housed in Science Hall annex and con-
sisted of a large steel tank 40 feet long,
weighing 20 tons. To facilitate construc-
tion and maintenance the tank was made
in two parts which could be unbolted
and one portion, 32 feet long, was
mounted on trolley wheels so that it
could be pushed aside if necessary.
The generator itself was similar to
the open air type but was mounted hori-
zontally. The high voltage terminal is a
hollow steel shell and is supported by
three textolite (plastic) legs. The elec-
tric charge is carried up to the terminal
by a rapidly moving cloth belt (motor
driven at 50 miles per hour). At the ter-
of
under
the Manhattan District Project
are
Partially assembled
accelerated
the nucleus.
(Continued on Page 15)
electrostatic generator. Electrons
through the long vacuum tube.
minal a series of needles removes the
charge which had been put on the belt
at the grounded end of the generator.
The accumulation of electric charges on
the terminal causes it to rise in voltage
so that soon several million volts exist
between the terminal and ground (the
steel outer tank). An accelerator tube is
placed below the belt, parallel to it, and
is continuously evacuated by large
pumps. It is interesting to note that two
extremes of pressure exist in the genera-
tor. In the steel tank we have ten atmo-
spheres pressure, in the accelerator tube
we have one billionth of an atmosphere.
The pressure type generator was com-
pleted in 1941 and has many interesting
features. Its operators are protected
from dangerous X-rays by a concrete
wall five feet thick. Access to the gen-
erator is obtained through a doorway
closed by a three inch steel door. Inter-
locks are arranged to prevent operation
unless the steel door is closed. Voltages
are obtained up to 3,000,000 volts and
currents of several hundred micro-am-
peres of electrons can be obtained. This
makes the accelerator a most potent
source of X-rays. In fact, it was, and is
the most powerful X-ray machine in the
world excluding the nuclear reactor at
Hanford, Washington!
This capacity for X-ray and electron
production did not go unnoticed. In the
fall of 1942 strict security regulations
were enforced on all research problems
being conducted in the Nuclear Physics
Laboratory as the result of a contract
with the Office of Scientific Research and
Development. Shortly thereafter the
newly formed Manhattan District Pro-
ject assumed charge and did not relin-
quish the Laboratory until World War
II had terminated.
The work done during the war years
has primarily been declassified and may
now be discussed. The main objective
was to study the effects of radiation,
both X-ray and electron, on various
forms of matter that would be used in
the construction of a nuclear reactor and
subsequent chemical extraction of pluto-
nium. Materials such as water, concrete,
oil, glass, etc., would all receive fantas-
tically high doses of radiation from the
reactor and fission products. Would these
materials change? These questions and
many others were answered by testing
with the radiations produced by the No-
tre Dame Pressure Electrostatic Genera-
tor. This testing program at Notre
Dame was essential for the successful
construction and operation of the Han-
ford Plutonium Plant on the west coast.
During the war period Dr. Collins and
the writer were on leave for other war-
time projects; the lattei’ returned to di-
rect laboratory research after cessation
of hostilities. Dr. Walter C. Miller, as-
sistant professor of Physics and a grad-
uate of Notre Dame, is now associated
with the writer in conducting experi-
ments in the Nuclear Physics Labora-
tory. Three nuclear physics graduate
students are holders of Atomic Energy
Commission Pre-Doctoral Fellowships
and a fourth is a recipient of a Research
Corporation Fellowship. Many other
graduate students here are also involved
in various phases of nuclear research.
The objective of the Laboratory is to
continue the study of the interaction of
electrons and X-rays with matter. To-
ward this end considerable progress has
been made on the nature of X-rays pro-
duced in gold targets by high energy
electrons. Many new metastable states
have been excited by X-rays and elec-
trons leading to a furthei* understanding
John T. Frederick,
Midmsterner
By EDWARD FISCHER
rpwo inches of fine print in Who’s Who
x give a thumbnail biography of John
T. Frederick in bare, cold outline. The
full, warm story of his life would need
all of the volume’s 2,975 pages, and then
some.
Take for instance the line: prof. Eng-
lish, Univ, of Notre Dame. Behind those
few words is the story of hundreds of
students admiring a man, humble and
able, who has devoted his life toward
pushing other people forward.
That habit was already strong in him
during his undergraduate days at the
State University of Iowa. The year he
received his bachelor’s degree, 1915, he
started The Midland, a magazine de-
voted to promoting others. He had no-
ticed that young midwestern writers, if
they were honest, did not have a chance
in the big eastern magazines. They
could not get published unless they made
their stories conform to the eastern edi-
tors’ ideas of the midwest, a land of
cowboys and Indians. John Frederick be-
lieved that midwestern writers should
have a chance to stay at home and devel-
op a regional literature of their own,
and he was willing to back this belief
with a publication dedicated to offering
them an opportunity.
The author is an assistant professor
•of Journalism at the University of No
tre Dame, and received an A.B. degree,
here, in 1937. He is a former reporter
for the Chicago Herald-Examiner and
the South Bend News-Times. During
World War II, Mr. Fischer served in the
Burma campaign and wrote four books
for the War Department. He pioneered
the Journalism department, news bureau
and ahimni publication at St. Joseph’s
College, Rensselaer, Ind. Besides being
a previous contributor to Notre Dame,
he has also written for America, nation-
al Catholic weekly magazine.
This publication received great praise
and a good deal of space in a book, pub-
lished in 1946, called The Little Maga-
zine. For example: “The Midland’s envi-
able record could only have grown out
of an admirable personality. That per-
sonality is John Towner Frederick. . . .
How the quiet unpretentious Frederick
slowly built his magazine, manuevered it
into an ever more important position,
makes an interesting tale. . . . The grad-
ual growth of The Midland was not alto-
gether due to hard work. Tact and per-
sonal charm drew to the editor many
supporters. . . . Frederick preferred to
keep himself in the background, to work
quietly and let the results speak for
themselves.”
In these words the book describes the
nature of the publication that made John
Frederick a pioneer in regionalism: “The
Midland preferred to speak optimistical-
ly of the Midwest land and its people.
Though a good many of the magazine’s
stories were grim and pessimistic, good
cheer, laughter, and a love of the land
pervaded most of the fiction and poetry.”
In its early days the magazine was
provincial, but not in the wrong or lim-
ited sense of the word. It was provincial
in the finest sense—it explored midwest-
ern materials on the universal plane of
literature. In its latter days it published
almost as much material from other
parts of the country as from the Mid-
west, for John Frederick had observed
that writers in other parts were having
just as much trouble staying honest as
the midwesterners.
The Midland, although it never had a
breath-taking circulation, enjoyed pres-
tige. H. L. Mencken once called it “the
most important literary magazine in
America.” Edward J. O’Brien, the short
story anthologist, praised it highly year
after year and usually gave it 100 per-
cent for literary excellence. No other
magazine rated such a high proportion
of stories in the O’Brien best-of-the-year
collections for so many years.
Mr. Frederick
The importance of the magazine can be
shown by pointing out that it discovered
Ruth Suckow and published some of the
early writings of MacKinlay Kantor,
Paul Engle, Phil Stong, James T. Far-
rell, Marquis Childs, Harry Sylvester,
and Richard Sullivan.
Artistically the publication was suc-
cessful; financially it was a failure.
Year after year John Frederick reached
deep into his own pocket to keep alive
something that existed only for the ad-
vancement of others. Through teaching,
farming, writing, and lecturing he
earned enough to keep the magazine on
its feet—until the depression. During
those lean years his debt grew at the
rate of a thousand dollars a year. What
it meant to him to discontinue the maga-
zine can be guessed from a sentence in
the final editorial in June, 1933: “For
nearly twenty years I have given to it
money and time taken from my work as
teacher and farmer, from my reading,
from my family life; and though the
(Continued on Page 17)
Vol. 2
No. 4
7
Trustees, Advisory Councils
Attend Joint Meeting
Men of Achievement Offer Practical Advice
The University of Notre Dame’s Associate Boai’d of Lay
Trustees and two advisory councils held their first joint
meeting1, recently, on the campus.
The two groups which met with the Boai’d of Lay Trus-
tees are the Advisory Council for Science and Engineering
and the Advisory Council for Commerce. The three groups
normally hold separate meetings twice each year.
Ernest M. Morris, South Bend, Ind., is president of the
Associate Board of Lay Trustees, while I. A. O’Shaughnessy,
St. Paul, Minn., is vice-president. Edgar Kobak, New York
City, is chairman of the Advisory Council for Science and
Engineering, and Bradley Dewey, Cambridge, Mass., is vice-
chairman. Charles M. Reagan, New York City, is chairman
of the Advisory Council for the College of Commerce, and
Judson S. Sayre, South Bend, Ind., is vice-chairman.
Many of the nation’s most prominent business, industrial
and professional leaders are included in the group listed
below.
Bottom Row (1. to r.)
O. J. CARON, Pres., O. J. Caron Spinning Co.,
Rochelle, Ill.; JOHN T. KIRBY, Vice-Pres., W. R.
Grace Co., New York, N. Y.; JOHN C. TULLY,
Pres., Thomas More Book Shop, Chicago, Hl.;
HAROLD S. VANCE, Ch. of Bd. and Pres., Stude-
baker Corp., South Bend, Ind.; CHARLES M.
REAGAN, Executive, Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pic-
tures, Inc., New York, N. Y.; EDGAR KOBAK,
Business Consultant, 341 Park Ave., New York,
N. Y.; REV. JOHN J. CAVANAUGH, C.S.C.,
Pres., Univ, of Notre Dame ; ERNEST M. MOR-
RIS, Ch. of Bd. of Dir., Associates Investment Co.,
South Bend, Ind. ; REV. THOMAS A. STEINER,
C.S.C., Provincial of Congregation of Holy Cross,
Notre Dame; JUDSON S. SAYRE, Pres., Bendix
Home Appliances, Inc., South Bend, Ind.; REV.
JOHN H. MURPHY, C.S.C., Vice-Pres, in Charge
of Public Relations, Notre Dame; THOMAS W.
PANGBORN, Pres., Pangborn Corp., Hagerstown,
Maryland; JAMES M. HAGGAR, Pres., Haggar
Co., Dallas, Texas; BRAD STOREY, Brandage,
Storey & Rose, New York, N. Y.; ROBERT H.
O’BRIEN, Secy., Paramount Pictures, Inc., New
York, N. Y.; DANIEL P. HIGGINS, Eggers &
Higgins, New York, N. Y.
Second Row (1. to r.)
REV. PHILIP S. MOORE, C.S.C., Dean of the
Graduate School, Notre Dame; DAN MARTIN,
Exec., Hughes Tool Co., Houston, Texas; JOHN
A. COLEMAN, Adler, Coleman & Co., New York,
N. Y. ; FRANK C. WALKER, Business Execu-
tive, New York, N. Y.; JOSEPH M. BYRNE,
JR., Pres., Merchants & Manufacture! s Fire Ins.
Co., New York, N. Y.; WALTER DUNCAN,
Pres., LaSalle Nat’l. Bank, LaSalle, Ill.; JOSEPH
A. LaFORTUNE, Vice-Pres., Warren Petroleum
Corp., Tulsa, Okla.; ARTHUR J. SCHMITT, Pres.,
American Phenolic Coip., Cicero, Illinois; DR.
CONSTANTINE McGUIRE, Cosmos Club, Wash-
ington, D. C.; PETER C. REILLY, SR., Pres.,
Reilly Tar & Chemical Co., Indianapolis, Ind.;
LELAND STANFORD, Vice-Pres., Sinclair Oil
Co., New York, N. Y.; WILLIAM K. WARREN,
Pres., Warren Petroleum Corp., Tulsa, Okla. ;
JAMES E. COSTON, Exec., Warner Bros. Thea-
tres, Chicago, III.; DR. KARL E. SCHOENHERR,
Dean of Engineering, Notre Dame; WILLIAM P.
FEELY, Pres., Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co.,
Chicago, Hl.; BERNARD J. VOLL, Pres., Sibley
Machine & Foundry Corp., South Bend, Ind. ;
REV. JOHN J. BURKE, C.S.C., Vice-Pres in
Charge of Bus. Affairs, Notre Dame.
Third Row (1. to r/)
WILLIAM H. HARRISON, Pres., International
Telephone & Telegraph Co., New York, N. Y. ;
JOHN P. MURPHY. Pres., The Higbee Co.,
Cleveland, 0.; ROBERT H. GORE, Publisher, Hotel
Owner and Realtor’, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.; WIL-
LIAM R. DALEY, Pres., Otis & Co., Cleveland,
O. ; JAMES GERITY, JR., Pres., Gerity-Michigan
Corp., Adrian, Michigan ; CHARLES HOOK, Ch.
of Bd., Armco Steel Corp., Middletown, Ohio;
BYRON V. KANALEY, Pres., Cooper, Kanaley
& Co., Chicago, Ill.; PETER C. REILLY, JR.,
Vice-Pres., Reilly Tar & Chemical Co., New York,
N. Y. ; C. ROY McCANNA, Pres., Bank of Burl-
ington, Burlington, Wise.; TIMOTHY P. GAL-
VIN, Attorney, Hammond, Indiana ; E. C. KLEID-
ERER, Asst. Exec. Dir., Research & Control, Eli
Lilly & Co., Indianapolis, Ind. ; LAWRENCE H.
BALDINGER, Dean of Science, Notre Dame; ED-
WARD J. QUINN, Murphy, Lanier & Quinn, Chi-
cago, Ill.; EDWARD J. DOYLE, Pres., Common-
wealth & Edison, Chicago, Illinois.
Fourth Row (1. to r.)
MR. VERITY, Exec., Armco Steel Corp., Middle-
town, 0.; MR. COLE, Exec., Armco Steel Corp.,
Middletown, Ohio; JACK P. WHITAKER, Pres.,
Whitaker Cable Corp-, Kansas City, Mo. ; ROB-
ERT E. DWYER, Vice-Pres., Anaconda Copper
Co., New York, N. Y. ; LEE GARY, Patent
Attorney, Chicago, Ill.; JAMES E. McCARTHY,
Dean of Commerce, Notre Dame; RICHARD
DOUGHERTY, Vice-Pres., N. Y. Central R. R.,
New York, N. Y. ; KERWIN H. FULTON, Pres.,
Outdoor Advertising, Inc., New York, N. Y.;
EARLE C. SMITH, Chief Metallurgist, Republic
Steel Corp., Cleveland, Ohio; BRADLEY DEWEY,
Pres., Dewey & Almy Chemical Co., Cambridge,
Mass.; DR. WILLIAM S. CALCOTT, Asst. Chem-
ical Dir., E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., Inc.,
Wilmington, Del. ; JAMES C. DALEY, Pres., Jef-
ferson Electric Co., Bellwood, Illinois; ROBERT
L. HAMILTON, Pres., Dumore Co., Racine, Wis.
8 Notre Dame
Ine
President's Page
QEVERAL developments worthy of
your special interest have taken place
here at the University since you read the
previous issue of Notre Dame. In the
closing days of July, the Rockefeller
Foundation in New York City decided to
grant the sum of $69,000, to augment
the University’s own contribution to a
three-year project that is to promote
research in the field of International Re-
lations. Particular attention will be
given to the influence of various philoso-
phies, ideologies and ethics upon recent
world events. The University gratefully
acknowledges receipt of this grant, and
expresses a confident hope that the De-
partment of Political Science and of His-
tory will make a significant contribution
in this important area of human rela-
tions.
Earlier in the Summer, representatives
of the Atomic Energy Commission nego-
tiated contracts with University officials
for the continuation and intensification
here at Notre Dame of theoretical stud-
ies in radiation chemistry. One provi-
sion in these contracts commits the
A.E.C. to the installation, at consider-
able expense, of an electrostatic genera-
tor in quarters to be made available by
the University. Our present generator
will, in the future, be used exclusively
by the Department of Physics for its
own research projects in atomic energy.
Thus, in two widely separated fields of
knowledge, and from two independent
and significant sources, recognition has
again come to Notre Dame for her aca-
demic achievements. Readers of Notre
Da/me know, also, of recent discoveries
in the field of medicine by three brilliant
alumni — Doctors Charles A. Hufnagel,
Robert A. Nelson, Jr., and John A. Vai-
chulis — which have won nation-wide
publicity within a single year.
Alumni and friends of Notre Dame
will share our pride in these accomplish-
ments. They have every right to, for it
is due to their loyal support, past and
present, that these results have been
achieved.
The growth of the Science Building
Fund continues week by week, and I con-
fidently expect that gifts to be received
between now and the feast of Christmas
will bring us much closer to our goal.
By this time, most of you have heard
that Reverend Robert H. Sweeney,
C.S.C., who, as my Executive Assist-
ant, had been charged with supervision
of Alumni activities and of Public Rela-
tions, including the operations of the
Notre Dame Foundation, was obliged,
during the Summer, for reasons of
health, to accept a less exacting assign-
ment. He has been appointed Vice Pres-
ident of the University of Portland in his
home state of Oregon. Reverend John H.
Murphy, C.S.C., succeeds Father Sween-
ey, as Vice President in charge of Pub-
lic Relations.
All who have come to know Father
Sweeney and his work will share the
sentiments of profound gratitude that
everyone at Notre Dame feels for his
friendly and brilliant services during the
last three years. Regret is general be-
cause of the loss of such a competent
and devoted administrator. I know, too,
that the University can count on your
continued cooperation with Father Mur-
phy, who is already known to many of
you. He has set for himself the difficult
task of emulating Father Sweeney in his
untiring efforts to be of service at all
times to you and to the University of
Notre Dame.
The Fall enrollment is 4985. Of this
number, 375 will be entered in the Grad-
uate School. Again this year, hundreds
had to be denied the advantages of a
Notre Dame education: many failed to
meet entrance requirements; others we
could not accept because we had reached
our capacity.
Because of the continuing loyal sup-
port of our alumni and non-alumni
friends, we at the University confidently
begin another school year in the import-
ant work that God has assigned to us,
that of educating youth according to
Christian principles in the spirit and
guiding presence of Notre Dame.
Vol. 2
No. 4
9
Career Detectives
Guidance and Testing Department Assists
Students In Planning For The Future
rpHIS fall Notre Dame’s Guidance and
x Testing- Department enters into its
fifth year of providing a specialized serv-
ice to all incoming students at the Uni-
versity’s expense.
Established in 1945, the department
was originally started at the suggestion
of Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C. During
the first two years, activities were su-
pervised by Rev. John J. Lane, C.S.C.
After Father- Lane’s transfer to King’s
College, Edward R. Quinn, Notre Dame
’28, assumed charge and has been Head
for the past two years.
In the beginning only veterans had
access to Guidance and Testing services
but later this procedure was modified to
include all students attending the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame.
Freshmen are privileged to undergo
certain tests for guidance and placement
purposes. These test records are valuable
sources of information to faculty mem-
bers, the student being examined, and to
prospective employers. Particularly, ex-
ecutives are most anxious to see test
records of potential Job applicants.
Besides group testing of incoming
first-year men, the department adminis-
ters “exams” for the Law School Admis-
sion Test (quarterly), the Medical
School Admission Test (semi-annually),
and the Navy Aptitude Tests once each
year, and does individual counseling and
testing throughout the year.
Individual testing, such as is pictured
on these pages, is especially beneficial to
students who have encountered scholastic
difficulties—primarily because of not
knowing their true aptitudes and abili-
ties. The counselor can be very helpful
in suggesting methods to overcome vari-
ous weaknesses.
Even the above-average student—one
who has attained excellent scholastic
grades—can gain new insight into his
potentialities, his vocational or career
interests. Usually tests are given in
small, private booths under the super-
vision of an experienced counselor. Si-
lence reigns supreme during the exam-
ining period.
As occupational placement is the natu-
ral means to an end of a well-conceived
guidance program, the department has
been very helpful in cooperating with
students seeking employment.
Tests, which are shown here, may be
the deciding factors in enabling students
to choose, wisely, their career.
Vocational interests are a vital part
of the objective test record. Here,
two students start their testing pro-
grams by recording their interests
on a pin-punch test.
The student inventories personality fac-
tors affecting educational and vocational
choices with this card-sorting test.
I	Student is scheduled for a preliminary interview by
Miss Komives, secretary. After being assigned to a
counselor, he is subjected to various testing and
*	guidance procedures.
Mr. Quinn, head of the Guidance and Testing De-
partment administers the Wechsler-Bellevue Intelli-
gence Scale to a student in obtaining an accurate
analysis of general intelligence.
Mr. Willemin, assistant to department head, admin-
isters group achievement test via a carefully timed
paper and pencil method.
Colored blocks test student's mechanical ability and
muscular coordination.
by potential
small instruments.
well above average
and others using
doctors, dentists
-i
*
Tweezer Dexterity test is scored
Both the right and left hands are tested in sampling
psychomotor
reaction with the Purdue Pegboard of
Manipulative Dexterity.
The Miles Vision Test is undertaken by this student
in determining ocular control.
Bi-dimensional spatial relations test measures apti-
tudes possessed by architects, artists and engineers.
informed, during final interview, of results
Student is
attained in guidance and testing methods.
A Golden Voice in a Golden Era
♦
Excerpts from outstanding addresses ol the Rev.
John W. Cavanaugh. C.S.C., president of the
University of Notre Dame from 1905 to 1919.
THE CONQUEST OF LIFE: ”... This University is based
upon the theory that education is chiefly moral; that character
is more than culture ..."
THE MODESTY OF CULTURE: "... All real culture is mod-
est. The process of education is largely the transforming of
the violence of barbarism into the strength of civilization. . . .
This modesty in judging others has a larger side. . . . There
are people who set other peoples down as inferior when, as a
matter of fact, they are only different. . . . Americans note
what seems to them certain forms of public indelicacy abroad,
and Frenchmen lift waxed eyebrows in horror at the sight of
an American spittoon. . . . True culture is cosmopolitan; true
culture is sympathetic and broad-minded. It never mistakes
our own tribal customs for absolute perfection ...”
THE EMPTY THRONE: (an address on family life) ” ... My
idea of a properly constituted Christian family is five boys
and one girl. I have two reasons for this. First, I am con-
nected with a boys' school, and secondly, one girl is as good
as five boys anyway. . . . Whenever I see a woman clasping
a dog to her bosom where a baby ought to be, 1 always
think that the dog is in bad company ...”
THE ROMANCE OF BIG BUSINESS: ” . . . There are three
chief tests by which the civilization of any people may be
tried. One is. the respect it manifests for human life as exem-
plified in 4he care it takes of its children; another is the rev-
erence it pays to women; and the third is the esteem in which
it holds human labor ...”
WHAT SHALL A MAN GIVE IN ©(CHANGE FOR HIS
SOUL?: ”... This University answers that life in all its fulness
and sweetness is open to you; that liberty of heart and mind
and body are yours; that the deepest fastnesses of thought
and the darkest depths of philosophy are your free hunting
grounds, but that faith shall go before you as a light and
Christ will be with you as a guide in all your searching and
striving. This school exists in order that Christian youth may/
have the best education in the land without the monstrous
price of doubt and desolation and despair.” .
(Sixth in a series of articles on the his-
tory of Notre Dame, adapted from the book
NOTRE DAME, ONE HUNDRED YEARS,
by Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.)
QIX years now marks the maximum
period of the administration of a
President of Notre Dame, two three-
year terms under the religious-superior
clause of Canon Law. This was not
always so.
From 1905 until 1919, the Rev. John
W. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., a graduate of
Notre Dame’s own Class of 1890, pre-
sided over the destinies of a small
Catholic school that emerged from the
vivid kaleidoscope of these years as a
University established in its new role
of greatness.
It will be difficult to study these years
in a few paragraphs because from each
paragraph there will stem the materials
for volumes. But if we can grasp just
some of the varied significance of the
greatness of these years, that were even
then sometimes lost like the sturdy
wood of a rose trellis in the beauty of
the blossoms, we will know that Notre
Dame’s greatness is not the impact of
an overnight miracle but the flow of
genius through a century of service.
It has been alleged of Father Cav-
anaugh that he could charm friends by
the score, but that it remained for his
successors to create needed benefactors
for Notre Dame. It can be noted now
that somehow during Father Cav-
anaugh’s regime the first of the less
Spartan residence halls was constructed
— named after Rev. Thomas E. Walsh,
C.S.C., and constituting the first “gold
coast.” And in 1917 Father Cavanaugh
dedicated, as a part of the Diamond
Jubilee of Notre Dame, the beautiful
Library building that then seemed such
an adequate monument to the phase of
culture he loved most, books.
And perhaps this is the logical spot
in history to note that actually it was
not until after Father Cavanaugh and
the Diamond Jubilee that Notre Dame
entered upon its first endowment drive.
Seventy-five years of inspiring history
in the annals of American higher edu-
cation, without a dollar of endowment!
History indeed.
12
Notre Dame
A Golden Era
at Notre Dame
An era (1905 - 1919) of brilliant men and active bays,
of debating and football championships, of poets and
warriors, of academic progress and world war. all
administered by the most magnetic of the Presidents
Athletics achieved unprecedented re-
spectability. They had never been a
source of enthusiasm to Father Cav-
anaugh, who, as a student, wrote one
of the gems of vitriol that he distilled
on occasion in describing the college
athlete. But faced with a growing in-
terest, and in 1909 the famous Cham-
pionship football team of the West
which defeated Michigan in a series not
resumed until 1942, Father Cavanaugh
brought Jess Harper from Wabash,
then a powei’ in Mid-West athletics.
Harper, a Stagg alumnus himself, gave
Notre Dame a new regime of athletic
regularity and a conformity and con-
tacts which rapidly improved its ath-
letic relations until in 1913 the famous
Army series was launched. When
Harper resigned in 1918 he was suc-
ceeded by a pupil-graduate, and assist-
ant coach, Knute K. Rockne, and Notre
Dame’s football history was already
national.
Scholars found Father Cavanaugh’s
administration conducive to rapid de-
velopment. Father Julius Nieuwland,
the scientist, and his new publication
“The American Midland Naturalist,”
rose to prominence. Dr. John M. Coo-
j	ney, soft-spoken Kentucky journalist,
i	through a benefaction from Chicago’s
[	Jewish philanthropist, Max Pam,
launched at Notre Dame the school of
journalism that has poured strong men
into the stream of America’s printer’s
ink. Father Charles L. O’Donnell,
C.S.C.. who edited the first student
yearbook in 1906, developed his poetry
and his teaching and his priestly life,
and in 1917 became one of the six bril-
liant priests that Notre Dame contrib-
uted as chaplains to the World War
that decimated Notre Dame’s students.
Father Cavanaugh attracted many
notable men of those years to the cam-
pus. Father John Talbot Smith was a
close personal friend. Monsignor Rob-
ert Hugh Benson, Wilfred Ward and
Cecil Chesterton were the vanguard of
English genius of later years. William
Jennings Bryan and Father Cavanaugh
occupied the stage of Washington Hall
in a memorable evening of oratory.
It was also the era of the establish-
ment of a strong lay faculty. This was
a group of able and devoted men whose
teaching was almost as much a voca-
tion as the religious with whom they
worked. Limited finances resulted in
a salary scale far below standard. But
in the convivial company of the Presi-
dent of the University, enjoying the
praise that he bestowed freely, family
budgets faded in the rich glow of Chris-
tian education. This was, too, the era
of Brother Florian, Brother Cajetan,
Brother Bonaventure, Brother Alnhon-
sus, Brother Leopold, and others of that
historic group who made up the Uni-
versity.
In April of 1917 with the outbreak
of World War I, Father Cavanaugh’s
University was quick and complete in
its proof that Notre Dame’s patriotism
was not put on and off like an aca-
demic robe. Young men poured from its
classrooms. Faculty and priests went
from its classrooms and cloisters. And
Father Cavanaugh offered all of its fa-
cilities, as did Father Hugh O’Donnell,
his protege and admirer and successoi',
when another great war faced Notre
Dame’s world in 1941. Notre Dame
became one of the sites of the Student
Army Training Corps. Fifty-six young
men proved with their lives, as did the
327 young men of World War II, that
Notre Dame is sincere in its belief that
men are endowed by their Creator' with
certain inalienable rights, wherever in
this world they may live.
The climax of Father Cavanaugh’s
long administration was the glorious
Diamond Jubilee that in the midst of a
World War focused on Notre Dame the
attention of a public which now realized
that here was definitely a great Catho-
lic University.
Cardinal Gibbons, Rev. Walter El-
liott, the Paulist preacher and a Notre
Dame alumnus, the great Apostolic
Delegate (later Cardinal) Bonzano, Ad-
miral William S. Benson, who that year
was Laetare Medalist, the Paulist Choir
under Father Finn, Archbishop (latei'
Cardinal) Mundelein, Catholic Univer-
sity’s Rectoi' Bishop Shahan, the orator
Bourke Cockran, Archbishop Hanna, In-
diana’s Governor Goodrich, and Joseph
Scott, still one of the Church’s stal-
warts, were all headliners in that June
of 1917.
There is no doubt in the mind of any
Notre Dame man that Father John
Cavanaugh and his years as president
left an impact of culture and contact
on the history of Notre Dame that did
much to speed the more practical devel-
opments of the years that followed.
Vol. 2
No. 4
13

J^OTRE Danie’s status in the college
football field has changed very little
this season in at least one respect. The
Irish are still the team to beat for na-
tional honors. However, most of the
people who make a living at rating foot-
ball teams think that Coach Frank
Leahy’s eleven will be beaten—but they
won’t venture to say just who can do it.
The schedule is definitely tougher this
fall; Notre Dame meets title favorites
from the Southern, Southeastern, South-
west and Pacific Coast conferences. And
there are battles with four always-
tough Big Ten schools, besides improved
Navy and darkhorse Washington. Then
too, seven regulars from the 1948 squad
aren’t around anymore.
With all these obstacles to overcome,
the Irish can still be as good as they
were last year; Frank Leahy broke down
and admitted it in Cleveland this past
summer. The backfield losses shouldn’t
be missed, the “tackle weakness” seems
exaggerated and the guard crop is good
despite the departure of All-Americans
Bill Fischer and Marty Wendell. Notre
Dame has 28 lettermen, eight of them
seeking their fourth varsity monogram,
and the freshmen came through with
some real prospects.
The crucial T-quarterback spot rests
in capable hands. Talented Bob Williams
has all the requisites and poise, too;
Coach Leahy isn’t the only person who
thinks the Baltimare junior may be the
best under-the-center man in the coun-
try. Finding a dependable replacement
is something else, though. Long John
Mazur of Plymouth, Pa., is a sophomore
sharpshooter, but, naturally, he needs
seasoning.
football forecast
By RALPH WRIGHT
The author is a senior, majoring in Journalism and
will graduate in January, 1950. He is sports editor
of the “Scholastic”, Notre Dame student news weekly.
Mr. Wright served with the U. S. Army in the Pa-
cific area for two years during World War II. He
intends to enter the newspaper field, and is from
Elyria, 0.
Even Mr. Leahy doesn’t worry too
much about the rest of the backfield. A
flock of super ball-toters will help keep
Notre Dame as the most powerful land
operative in the nation. Fancy-stepping
Bill Gay and Frank Spaniel, running
star of spring practice, dominate left
half with hurdler Leo McKillip making
for speed in the reserve ranks. Sopho-
more John Petitbon stands out here too,
but the fleet New Orleans lad figures
more as a defensive back right now
(probably the No. 1 safety man).
All-American Emil Sitko, former right
half, has been moved to fullback and
continues as just about the fastest-
starting, hardest-hitting backfielder any-
where. His counterpart, Larry Coutre
(also red-headed and stocky), is speedy,
powerful and experienced. More colorful
than either of the redheads and a sure
crowd-pleaser is sawed-off Bill Barrett,
the much-talked-about sophomore from
Fenwick High in Chicago. Barrett fairly
sizzled all last spring and starred in the
rout of the Old Timers.
Mike Swistowicz will aid Sitko at full-
back. Jack Landry, switched from half
to full, will be a big help. Frosh enter the
fullback picture also; Jack Bush has
speed and power, and Sam Abbott can
punt as well as back the line.
Quantitatively and qualitatively, the
ends and center have it. Right end be-
longs to the best in the business, Co-
Captain Leon (The Monster) Hart. He’s
aided by Doug Waybright. Left end ap-
pears safe with Bill Flynn and Bill
Wightkin leading the way; they’re ex-
perienced and gifted.
Vicious Jerry Groom is the defensive
centei* and line-backer whereas sharp-
blocking Walt Grothaus takes over the
pivot post on offense. They’re assisted
by newcomers Jim Hamby and Byron
Boji.
The tackles survived last year, and it’s
difficult to see why they should be weak-
ei' now. After three fine years at left
end, Co-Captain Jim Martin moved to
left tackle and does just as well. Ralph
Co-Captains Leon Hart (left), Jim Martin	Emil Sitko
Bill Barrett
McGehee, a starter in 1948, is back, but
gigantic Bob Toneff should start most of
the time. Toneff rates as one of the top
line prospects in years.
All the consternation about the guards
is over the loss of Fischer and Wendell,
not over a lack of good material at the
position. Lettermen Frank (Rodney)
Johnson, Fred Wallner (a converted
fullback), Bob Lally and Steve Oracko
will share the duties with soph star,
Paul Burns, an Athens, Pa., lad.
Notre Dame has what it takes to run
that unbeaten string to 38. But the de-
fense must stop the likes of Charlie Jus-
tice, Doak Walker and Eddie Price.
Coach Leahy says the odds are against
Notre Dame and they are. Yet, if the
Irish leave Dallas in December as the
undefeated, untied champions of the na-
tion, nobody will be too surprised.
Bob Toneff
ATOM SMASHING
(Continued from Page 6)
The Laboratory’s program is partially
supported by the Office of Naval Re-
search and by grants from the Re-
search Corporation. When the proposed
$1,750,000 Science Center is built on the
Notre Dame campus it will offer addi-
tional facilities for important expansion
in the Department of Physics.
Atom smashing is a physical reality
that can have a far-reaching effect on
whether we live peacefully, or otherwise,
in this streamlined 20th Century!
GERMAN NATURAL LAW INSTITUTE
MODELED AFTER ND PROJECT
The Natural Law Institute at the
University of Notre Dame will serve as
a model for a similar Institute to be
inaugurated in Cologne, Germany, ac-
cording to a letter received by Dean
Clarence E. Manion, of the Notre Dame
College of Law.
The proposed Natural Law Institute
in Cologne, according to the letter, is to
constitute one of the steps towards the
establishment of a Catholic University
in North-Rhine-Westphalia. All univer-
sities in Germany at present are state
institutions.
The Natural Law Institute at Notre
Dame, unique in modern times, was
established in 1947, and is held annually
at Notre Dame in order to help increase
the emphasis of the Natural Law as the
basis of life, liberty and all other human
rights. Dr. Heinrich A. Rommen, of the
College of St. Thomas, St. Paul, Minn.,
will collaborate in the Cologne Natural
Law Institute as a corresponding mem-
ber. Dr. Rommen was one of the prin-
cipal speakers at the 1948 Natural Law
Institute at Notre Dame.
ON THE COVER are portraits of
six young Notre Dame graduates,
1948-49. They typify the thousands
of students, representing all races
and creeds, who have enjoyed tol-
erance and good fellowship at the
University of Notre Dame since its
founding by Father Edward Sorin,
C.S.C., 107 years ago. Included in
the group are: John B. Alfieri,
Bronx, N. Y.; David S. Greenberg,
Brooklyn, N. Y.; Raul S. Ibanez,
Arequipa, Peru; James J. Klocken-
kemper. Batchtown, Ill.; Thomas J.
McCarthy, Erie, Pa., and Francis J.
Machnikowski, Calumet City, Ill.
CORPORATION GIVES FELLOWSHIP
FOR RESEARCH IN ECONOMICS
The Kimberly-Clark Corporation, in
Neenah, Wisconsin, recently gave a
$1,500 fellowship in the field of Econom-
ics to the University of Notre Dame.
It will be known as the Kimberly-Clark
Fellowship and will be for the current
academic year.
dean McCarthy chosen
FOR PROMINENT COMMITTEE POST
Dean James E. McCarthy, of the Col-
lege of Commerce at the University of
Notre Dame, has accepted an invitation
to serve with the Committee on Adver-
tising of the United States Chamber of
Commerce for 1949-50.
This Committee advises the national
chamber on ways to broaden the inter-
est in advertising by bringing pertinent
advertising information to the attention
of businessmen, chambers of commerce
and trade associations, and functions
through the Domestic Distribution De-
partment. The committee meets six
times per year in New York City.
RENOWNED BRITISH CHEMIST
DELIVERS NIEUWLAND LECTURES
Professor Eric K. Rideal, one of the
most recognized British chemists of
modern times, delivered the annual
Nieuwland Memorial Lectures this Fall
at the University of Notre Dame.
Dr. Rideal, who since 1946 has been
director of the Davy Faraday Research
Laboratory at the Royal Institution in
London, will discuss various aspects of
surface action.
The Nieuwland Lectures were estab-
lished in 1946 by the University to
honor the memory of the Rev. Julius A.
Nieuwland, C.S.C., pioneer Notre Dame
scientist who discovered synthetic
rubber.
NOTRE DAME SCIENTISTS ELECTED
TO CHEMICAL SOCIETY OFFICES
Two University of Notre Dame scien-
tists were elected to high offices of the
American Chemical Society at the an-
nual meeting of the Society which closed
recently at Atlantic City, N. J.
Dr. Kenneth N. Campbell, who cur-
rently is engaged in cancer research at
Notre Dame, was elected Chairman of
the Division of Medicinal Chemistry of
the American Chemical Society.
Dr. Milton Burton, Director of the
Radiation Chemistry Project at Notre
Dame, was named Chairman-Elect of the
Division of Physical and Inorganic
Chemistry of the Society.
Vol. 2 • No. 4	15
ND’s First A.B. Degree
Class of ’49
By JOHN P. CARROLL
The author retrieved an A.B. degree
from Notre Dame in the ’49 graduating
class. His home is in Lansing, Mich., and
he teas active in the Press Club and
Knights of Columbus while a student at
the University.
COMMENCEMENT at Notre Dame
was initially established 104 years
ago in August, 1845, while this past
summer marked the hundredth anniver-
sary of the University’s first bachelor’s
degree being awarded to Neal H. Gilles-
pie, a seventeen-year old student from
Lancaster, Ohio. He was just 14 when
he came to Notre Dame. Before he died
his name rightfully earned a page in the
campus history books for more reason
than just being the first full-fledged
graduate.
Gillespie was a good student, favor-
ably impressing Father Sorin; but he
was daring enough to use the forbidden
tobacco occasionally. Discipline was real-
ly rough then—marching to and from
classes, imposed periods of silence for
study and prayer—and it wasn’t at all
uncommon for ND “men” to run away.
But Neal Gillespie stayed, and by the
time he received that first degree in 1849
he was thinking seriously of the priest-
hood.
Neal entered the Congregation’s no-
vitiate in the fall of 1851, and while
he was there helped clear the ground for
a new building, on the present site of
Holy Cross Seminary. Three years later,
in 1854, he was sent to Rome where he
completed his studies in theology, and
was ordained there in 1856.
When Father Gillespie returned to
Notre Dame after his ordination he was
immediately appointed Vice-President
and Director of Studies. At that time
the duties of the Director of Studies in-
cluded the handling of discipline, and
Father Gillespie sometimes ran afoul of
other higher-ups because of his leniency
—possibly induced by his own experience
Honorary degree recipients George W. Strake, Houston, Tex., John S.
Burke, New York City, and Rev,. Paul Bussard, St. Paul, Minn., talk
with Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., at 1949 Commencement.
as a student. He even went so far as to
allow students to go for walks without
being accompanied by a prefect.
During this time he was overseer of
student debating, dramatics, oratory,
and musicals. And he helped set up the
first campus literary magazine, a manu-
script affair that was read publicly to
all students in study hall.
In 1859 he went to the College of St.
Mary-of-the-Lake in Chicago for a year
as President. But in 1860 he was back
at ND as Vice-President. In 1863 he
went to France as the American repre-
sentative of the Congregation of Holy
Cross.
While he was there Father Sorin
started a Catholic magazine, the Ave
Maria. In the beginning it was operated
under the joint direction of Father Sor-
in and Sister Mary of St. Angela. Then
in 1866 Father Gillespie was called home
to take charge, and he settled down to
the work that was to keep him occupied
the remaining years of his life.
Father Sorin’s original idea had been
to save money by using translations
from Catholic magazines published in
Europe. Father Gillespie modified this
idea, somewhat, by soliciting articles
from Catholic writers in this country.
Orestes A. Brownson, America’s great-
est Catholic philosopher in the 19th Cen-
tury, now buried in the Basement Chapel
on the Notre Dame campus, was his
leading contributor.
Father Sorin never felt that the ed-
itorship was an eight-hour-day job, and
usually supplemented it with some other
part-time position. At various times in
the next few years Father Gillespie was
Master of Novices, Prefect of Discipline,
Chaplain of St. Mary’s, and frequently
a traveling public relations representa-
tive foi' the University. Evidently he was
gifted with a remarkable personality
and a fine sense of humor. In one of his
letters he tells of taking his dog to a
meeting of the Order’s “Local Council,”
where novices were presenting them-
selves for permission to take their vows.
He says the canine’s antics were quite
funny, but the dog acted as a gentleman
through the whole proceedings.
By early 1874 the strain of too many
jobs was affecting Father Gillespie’s
health and he was relieved of the editor-
ship. His health continued to get worse,
and on November 12, 1874 Neal H. Gil-
lespie, C.S.C., A.B. (ND ’49), died at St.
Mary’s Convent — after contributing
much more to Notre Dame than just his
name on the first diploma.
!6 Notre Dame
FIVE VICE-PRESIDENTS
ON NOTRE DAME STAFF
Creation of four new vice-presiden-
tial positions at the University of
Notre Dame was recently announced by
the Rev. Thomas A. Steiner, c.S.C.,
Provincial of the Indiana Province of
the Priests of Holy Cross.
Under the new administraive organ-
ization, the University will have five
vice-presidents, each charged with his
own specific duties. Previously, only
one vice-president was included in the
administrative organization of the
University.
Father Steiner also announced that
the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.S.C.,
president of Notre Dame since 1946,
will continue in the same capacity for
another three-year term.
The Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
C.S.C., was named Executive Vice-Presi-
dent, Rev. John H. Murphy, c.S.C., was
selected as Vice-President in Charge of
Public Relations, -Rev. Howard Kenna,
C.S.C., was appointed Vice-President in
Charge of Academic Affairs, Rev. John
J. Burke, c.S.C., was named Vice-Presi-
dent in Charge of Business Affairs, and
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, c.S.C., was ap-
pointed Vice-President in Charge of
Student Welfare.
The Rev. Robert H. Sweeney, c.S.C.,
became Vice-President and Dean of
Arts and Letters at the University of
Portland. He has been Executive Assist-
ant to the President at Notre Dame.
ND STUDENT ARCHITECTS
WIN NATIONAL HONORS
Seven students and one alumnus of
the Department of Architecture at the
University of Notre Dame won national
recognition for designs submitted in the
recent Small Mission Church Competi-
tion sponsored by the National Catholic
Building Convention and Exposition.
The Notre Dame architects won
prizes in the competition over a field of
169 collegiate and practicing architects.
The contest was conducted to encourage
functional and economical designing of
rural parish churches.
Joseph J. Sherer, of Milwaukee, Wis.,
a Notre Dame graduate of 1943, won
second prize in the nationwide contest.
Third prize was awarded to William
Ruoff, a Notre Dame architect student
from St. Louis, Missouri.
Other Notre Dame students who re-
ceived honorable mention in the contest
were Jaime Castiello, Guadalajara, Ja.,
Mexico; Joseph Gasparella, Vandergrift,
Pa.; Richard Kirk, Schenectady, N. Y.;
Charles Murphy, Natick, Mass.; Carl
Nilsen, Westfield, Mass ; and Louis
Noetzel, Detroit, Michigan.
JOHN T. FREDERICK,
MIDWESTERNER
(Continued from Page 7)
money and the time have been alike
sometimes needed and hard to spare, my
personal rewards have been great.”
Such unselfishness—so much a part of
John Frederick, editor—is one of his out-
standing characteristics as teacher. Stu-
dents feel the warmth of his personality
and admire his capacity for kindliness.
Whenever a student brings a manuscript
to him for criticism, John Frederick al-
ways makes it seem that the student is
doing him a favor in seeking his advice
His first teaching was done at the
State University of Iowa, where he re-
ceived his M.A. in 1917 and was elected
to Phi Beta Kappa. It was there he in-
troduced the first course in contemporary
American literature ever taught in the
United States. For two years he was
head of the English department at Moor-
head Teachers College, Moorhead, Minn.,
and later joined the faculties of the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh, Northwestern, and
Notre Dame. For several years, begin-
ning m 1930, he was on the Northwest-
ern and Notre Dame faculties simultane-
ously. He shuttled back and forth doing
part-time teaching on each campus.
His knowledge of American literature,
and especially of midwestern regional
literature, took him as a lecturer to
many colleges and universities — Dart-
mouth, Columbia, Trinity, Syracuse, Illi-
nois, Minnesota, Missouri, Ohio, and
Michigan, to name just a few.
In the midst of all this activity for
others, John Frederick found time to do
a few things himself. Besides short stor-
ies and magazine articles, he wrote two
novels with midwestern farm back-
grounds, Druida, in 1922, and Green
Bush, in 1925.
The old habit of doing things for
others set him to turning out antholo-
gies. In that way he promoted writers
who appeared in the collections and pro-
vided readers with a wealth of material
that they would have had neither the
time nor the inclination to dig out for
themselves. Stories from the Midland
appeared in 1925; Thirty-four Present
Day Stories, in 1941, and Out of the Mid-
west, in 1944. The two volume set of
American Literature — that he selected
and edited along with Joe Lee Davis,
of the University of Michigan, and
Frank Luther Mott, of the University of
Missouri — was published by Scribner’s
in 1948. His text, Handbook of Short
Story Writing, published in 1925, is still
in print in its fourth edition. He collab-
orated with the Rev. Leo L. Ward,
C.S.C., head of the Department of Eng-
lish at Notre Dame, on two other texts,
Good Writing, in 1934, and Reading for
Writing, in 1937.
As a critic John Frederick continued
to work hard for others. He gave read-
ers the benefit of his cultivated taste and
■sound judgment, and he encouraged
writers worth encouraging. When the
Chicago Sun was started in 1941, he
began a weekly column in the book sup-
plement. At the same time, he took over
the monthly book department in Rotari-
an, a department handled for many years
by William Lyon Phelps.
His national reputation as a critic
grew from 1937 until 1944 during which
years he did a weekly half hour broad-
cast called Of Men and Books over CBS
network. In connection with his com-
ments on current books he usually pre-
sented a guest author on the program;
among them were Aldous Huxley, Archi-
bald MacLeish, Thomas Mann, Franz
Werfel, Sigrid Undset, Eric Maria Re-
marque, John Dos Passes, Robert Frost,
and Stephen Vincent Benet.
During the war, John Frederick de-
voted most of his time to farming be-
cause, “The things I was equipped to
teach were not particularly needful in a
war program.” He went to his 1,500-acre
farm at Glennie, northern Michigan, and
pitched into the job of raising cattle with
the same enthusiasm he had put to edit-
ing, teaching, and writing.
Most of his days now are spent on his
farm. He comes down to Notre Dame
each semester for several short periods
of concentrated teaching in contempo-
rary fiction and American literature, but
he is giving himself a little more time
these years than he ever did before. He
and Esther, his wife, are having fun
with their hobby, flower gardening; they
are specializing in lilies at present, some
thirty varieties, and they are also col-
lecting books on gardening, old and new.
John Fredericks’s father at 83, carries
a great deal of the burden of running
the stock farm. His son, John, lives with
the two grandchildren nearby. The other
son, Janies, is at Columbia, majoring in
Oriental history.
Farming spares John Frederick
enough time for writing; he is at present
working on a novel and a book of criti-
cism. Such work will keep the space
growing beneath his name in Who’s Who,
but no matter how much it grows it will
never tell the whole truth about him.
Each added line will only testify that
such a drab, cold listing of goals gained
is a most inadequate way of measuring
the stature of a man. Especially when a
man of big deeds has a soul that’s bigger.
Vol. 2
No. 4
17
Vetville Crusaders
The Vet Gazette Voices An Effective Editorial Policy
By ROBERT J. VIERHILE
A LTHOUGH a newspaper youngster
of only 2% years, the Vet Gazette,
weekly journalistic gem of the nearby
campus community housing 117 married
veterans of World War II — and their
families — has matured into one of the
most successful crusading publications in
Indiana.
Into this four-page, 8-by-10 inch, mim-
eographed paper have gone the com-
plaints, the wants, and the hopes of
Vetville’s 234 inhabitants. Since April
30, 1947, four Gazette editors have
stumped editorially for almost every-
thing under the Indiana sun—telephones,
bus service, playgrounds, baby sitters,
apartment-size refrigerators, police pro-
tection, and food cooperatives among
others. And, in almost every case, the
power of the mimeographed Press has
paid off.
In the initial issue of Vetville News
Editor-in-Chief Jim Coyle checks some “hot copy" for
the next issue with Sports Editor Bob Kienel.
(the name was changed to the Vet Ga-
zette nine issues later), Editor John V.
Hupf told his readers that his paper’s
job was “to make Vetville a better place
to live in, a community to be proud of.”
That touched off the Gazette’s first cru-
sade, a tussle with the Indiana Bell Tele-
phone Company to get phones installed in
at least every third unit in the village.
Hupf, in a page one editorial, called on
the veterans and their wives to meet and
town-hall the plan.
This flurry attracted a lot of atten-
tion. Editor Hupf wrote in the next is-
sue that a compromise was quickly
effected between Vetvillagers and the
telephone company representatives. The
latters’ stipulation was “you’ll get what
you want but please keep off our necks.”
Thus, with his first journalistic cru-
sade a complete success, Editor Hupf
thanked everyone for their cooperation
The author received an A.B. -degree,
majoring in Journalism, from Notre
Dame in the June, 1949 graduating
class. He is now reporting for the Ro-
chester (N. Y.) Democrat and Chroni-
cler. Mr. Vierhile previously contributed
to Notre Dame, and formerly lived in
Naples, N. Y.
and ended his editorializing with this
gentle request: “Please, please keep off
their necks.”
The telephone situation popped into
print again during Chuck Perrin’s first
term as Gazette editor in October, 1948.
Several wives complained to him that,
because the phones were hooked up on
the party-line system, they had missed
prizes on some of the local telephone
quiz programs.
Editor Perrin answered the complaints
with an editorial entitled “Give Them a
Break.” Said he: “Two citizens have
missed an opportunity to participate in
South Bend radio quiz prizes, and all be-
cause their telephone lines were busy at
the time. It is the duty of every house-
wife to keep the line clear from 8:15 to
8:30 a.m. and from 5:00 to 5:15 p.m.”
Then there was the bus situation. The
nearest bus stop was at the south end of
the Notre Dame campus, a half mile
from Vetville. For mothers coming back
from a South Bend shopping spree with
both arms full of bundles —■ and babies
— the hike across the Notre Dame cam-
pus to Vetville was as rugged as washing
a ton of diapers.
For two months Editor Hupf plugged
away in his editorial columns for exten-
sion of the Notre Dame bus line. In his
May 16, 1947, edition of the Gazette,
Hupf told his readers: “From the 31st
of May on we shall ride in style. After
a long, hard struggle with the Northern
Indiana Transit Company, we have just
received word that Vetville would be
served with regular bus transportation.”
Roving reporter Doris McGraw (right)
gets opinion from Mrs. Billis on a new
Vetville project. Jackie Billis (ND, '71),
one of the GAZETTE'S younger readers,
tosses a smirk at the cameraman and
mutters, "Let's get rolling. Mom — I
wanna see the ball game."
Hupf, the crusader, was off on an-
other journalistic jaunt in his next is-
sue. He wrote that the Villagers should
have some place to meet socially and
hold council meetings. This time, the
Reverend Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
then Vetville Chaplain, now Executive
Vice-President of Notre Dame, took up
the cry and received governmental sanc-
tion to finance the building. Before the
paint was dry on the new one-story hall,
the Gazette bugled to its readers that
“the Vet Rec Hall will be christened this
Friday with a pot-luck dinner.”
Succeeding editors kept the Gazette’s
crusading policy rolling in high gear.
When Chuck Golden took over in Sep-
tember, 1947, Vetville was plagued with
speeders, small boys stealing food from
tablished whereby Notre Dame students
living on campus pooled their free eve-
nings. The students were paid by the
hour. Editor Golden changed this. He
got the students gratis.
There have been a few notable thorns
in the Gazette’s editorial bed of roses.
The sharpest concerned the action taken
by Congress to raise the subsistence
scales of veterans going to school under
Public Law 346. Congress anted the
married vet’s allowances from $90 to
$105 per month, but kept a ceiling of
$200 on their earning capacity.
Editor Golden voiced his disapproval
in the April 2,1948, issue of the Gazette.
Said he: “To aid the veteran of World
War II . . . Our Congress raised the
subsistence allowance. Good. Few will
argue that this is not beneficial. One
small item, however, they overlooked; the
ceiling on the greatly benefitted veter-
an’s earning capacity. The subsistence !
was raised and the ceiling maintained.	■
The obvious result is a cut in the married	:
veteran’s earning capacity. This situa- J
tion is outrageous. The existence of any j
ceiling at all is intolerable.”	i
After two weeks of loud lamentation ;
— minus any action from his berated
congressman — Golden threw in the	•
towel. The Gazette, he reasoned, was not	<
being circulated on Capitol Hill.	|
Jim Coyle is still waving the journalis- J
tic saber but with a little less flourish.
i
I
“The Golden Days of crusading are f
over,” comments Editor Coyle. “Vetville i
is running pretty smoothly now and the
citizens are more content. But should
something come up that we Vetvillers	i
don’t like, I’ll add a little sulphuric acid	J
to the ink and start firing with a page
one editorial.”
back porches, and, reportedly, a peeping-
tom. Golden asked his readers to put
their victuals in ice boxes, to pull down
their shades and he’d see what he could
do to get police protection for the com-
munity.
The Vetville council made the next
move. They petitioned the sheriff of St.
Joseph County. Then the South Bend
Tribune echoed the cause in a news item
headlined “vetville asks traffic safe-
ty.” Within two weeks, the community
had a 20 m.p.h. speed limit, two stop-
signs at the Bulla Road intersection, and
two students deputized as sheriffs.
In domestic problems the Gazette’s
crusading spirit has been equally suc-
cessful. It plugged for a food cooperative
and got it. Two editors, Golden and
Hupf, went to work on the baby-sitter
problem and licked it. A system was es-
All Vetvillers read the GAZETTE including
Mrs. Shirley Martin
Notre Dame Scientist
Registers Victory In
Typhoid Fever Research
By RAYMOND J. DONOVAN
The author has written publicity for
five years at Notre Dame and is now Di-
rector of the Public Information Depart-
ment. He graduated from Notre Dame
in 1942, and formerly was sports editor
of the Logansport (Ind.) Pharos-Trib-
une. Notre Dame has published several
articles written by Mr. Donovan.
“WE have bigger things cooking ...”
’’ This statement from Dr. John
A. Vaichulis, a graduate of the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame in 1929, who to-
gether with an associate has registered
the biggest victory over typhoid fever
carriers in the history of medicine.
Dr. Vaichulis speaks only casually of
his triumph over the dangerous typhoid
carrier, which renowned scientists have
been striving to conquer for many years.
The Notre Dame trained scientist would
rather look to the future, to his work in
tubercular cures and to his research in
the treatment of schizophrenia.
But today, the world is hailing Dr.
Vaichulis for his most recent achieve-
ment. His victory over “Typhoid Mary,”
as the innocent carrier of typhoid is
called, has cured all but six of 146
such patients who were in Manteno
State Hospital in Illinois in 1946. And
Dr. Vaichulis believes that the remain-
ing six soon will be evacuated.
Until young Dr. Vaichulis began his
research, even the so-called “super
drugs” were unable to help the thou-
sand upon thousand of typhoid carriers.
This fact provides even a closer and
more comprehensive view of the miracle
attained by this brilliant scientist.
Dr. Vaichulis, who received a Bache-
lor of Science degree from Notre Dame
in 1929, teamed with University of
Illinois physiologist and Vice-President,
Andrew C. Ivy, in conducting experi-
ments which led to two new treatments
for the disinfection of typhoid carriers.
The first typhoid treatment devised
by the Notre Dame alumnus consists
Dr. Vaichulis
of “antagonistic bacilli,” which is taken
through the mouth in ginger ale or
some other carbonated beverage. An
“antibiotic” is produced by the bacilli in
the patient’s system and this “antibi-
otic” kills the typhoid germs in a pe-
riod of from two weeks to a month.
The other Vaichulis treatment is com-
posed of penicillin, three sulfa drugs
(thiazole, diazine and merazine), plus
alcohol and a dye called iodophthalein.
Injected into the patient’s muscles and
veins, this treatment works faster, but
in the Manteno State Hospital test it
made 50 percent of the patients vio-
lently ill.
Before Dr. Vaichulis’ amazing dis-
covery, the only treatment for typhoid
fever carriers was to remove the gall
bladder, where typhoid germs often
breed. This, however, is an expensive
and disagreeable operation that was
useless if other organs such as the in-
testines also had become breeding
places.
To aid Dr. Vaichulis in his recently
completed work, a supply of $75,000
drugs was given by Commercial Sol-
vents Corporation, Sharpe & Dohme,
Inc., and the Baxter Laboratories.
But, as Dr. Vaichulis says, let’s look
to the future. The distinguished sci-
entist at one time worked with Dr.
L. J. Meduna, the discoverer of the
original shock therapy in schizophrenia,
at Manteno State Hospital. When their
super-centrifuge “conked out,” it turned
out to be a break for the Notre Dame
scientist, who then teamed up with
Dr. Ivy.
Now the pair can cure all of the
enteric diseases with the exception of
cholera. And if it hadn’t been for the
critical situation today in China, it is
likely that Dr. Vaichulis and Dr. Ivy
would be guests in China of Chiang
Kai-Shek. For it was the latter who
invited them to come to China for re-
search on the cure of cholera. The trip
to China, however, will have to wait
for better days.
After Dr. Vaichulis and Dr. Ivy com-
plete the present tuberculosis research
which they are conducting, they hope
to be back on the trail of a cure for
schizophrenia. According to Dr. Vai-
chulis, they have some leads which
might “clear up over half of the hos-
pital beds in the country.” Dr. Vai-
chulis points out that he is primarily
a biochemist, but plans this brief so-
journ into bacteriology to work on
schizophrenia.
Dr. Vaichulis was trained in his early
scientific background at Notre Dame in
the old Chemistry Building. It is for
the training of such scientists as Dr.
Vaichulis that the Notre Dame Foun-
dation currently is seeking $1,750 000
from alumni and non-alumni friends to
erect a new Science Center. Construc-
tion will begin on the new building as
soon as funds are available. He was a
monogram man on the track team dur-
ing his undergraduate days at Notre
Dame, which was during the final years
of Knute Rockne’s life.
After leaving Notre Dame he took
graduate work at the University of
20
Notre Dame
Illinois. And it was while obtaining his
Master’s Degree at Illinois that he reg-
istered another “first” by describing the
sulfa drugs two years before Domagk
announced his discovery and received
the Nobel Prize for his efforts. Dr.
Vaichulis’ thesis describing the sulfa
drugs is in the Quine Library of
Illinois.
Dr. Vaichulis was awarded his Doc-
torate degree in Pharmacology from the
University of Chicago under Dr. E. M.
K. Geiling, who is a Mendel Medal
recipient from Villanova. His teaching
experience includes the Universities of
South Dakota, Illinois, Chicago and
Loyola of Chicago.
Dr. John Vaichulis is the fourth
Notre Dame scientist in the past
twelve months to make a major dis-
covery. Dr. Charles C. Price, Head
of the Department of Chemistry at
Notre Dame, last winter isolated
four compounds capable of neutral-
izing the Rh factor in human blood.
Another Notre Dame chemist. Dr.
Charles A. Hufnagel, gained na-
tional prominence for development
of a technique to repair the aorta
blood vessel with a plastic tube
and for the establishment of artery
banks similar to blood banks. A
third Notre Dame alumnus. Dr. Rob-
ert A. Nelson, recently was success-
ful in developing a new test for
syphilis.
But Dr. Vaichulis is most contented
when he gets around to telling about
“clearing the hospital beds of the coun-
try.” He readily admits that he has
had his share of bad breaks, along with
the good ones, but points to his student
training at Notre Dame as the factor
which has helped him most to overcome
these odds.
Then he gets back again to the orig-
inal point of approach. He readily
answers any questions asked him about
his typhoid research, but hastens to
add, “Now let’s look into the future ...”
MEDICAL CHEMISTRY DIVISION
SLATED FOR CAMPUS MEETING
The University of Notre Dame has
been chosen as the site of the 1950
National Symposium of the Medicinal
Chemistry Division of the American
Chemical Society.
The symposium, which will be held
from June 15 to 17 next year, will fea-
ture discussions by experts of the new
developments in drug chemistry. More
than 500 pharmacologists and chemists
are expected to attend.
IRENE DUNNE RECEIVES
1949 LAETARE MEDAL
The University of Notre Dame for-
mally conferred its 1949 Laetare Medal,
awarded annually to the outstanding
American Catholic layman, on movie
actress Irene Dunne at ceremonies held
on the Notre Dame campus. Miss
Dunne, who in private life is Mrs.
Francis D. Griffin, was accompanied to
Notre Dame by her husband, Dr. Grif-
fin; Mary Frances, their 12-year-old
daughter; and a host of movie execu-
tives.
In accepting the Laetare Medal, the
oldest American Catholic medal, Miss
Dunne told the audience in the Notre
Dame Drill Hall that “when a univer-
sity of men honors a woman, I see in it
an echo of its original consecration,
when high upon its golden dome the
university placed the Lady Who is
Notre Dame.”
“I might be tempted to regard this
Laetare Medal as a personal tribute
were it not for the fact that I, like
you, have been born of Notre Dame,”
Miss Dunne declared. “Everyone is
born of woman, not only physically but
spiritually In that consciousness, I
know that the Laetare Medal is not for
my honor but is rather first a tribute to
womanhood and secondly to my pro-
fession.”
NOTRE DAME FIRST IN
STUDENT RELIEF CAMPAIGN
The University of Notre Dame, with
a student contribution of $26,181 led
Catholic Colleges in the United States
foi' the second consecutive year in the
Student Relief Campaign.
The nation-wide campaign, sponsored
by the National Federation of Catholic
College Students, raised a total of
$386,901 for physical, spiritual, and in-
tellectual relief of students in war-dev-
astated countries. Relief materials pur-
chased with the proceeds are being dis-
tributed to needy students in eleven
foreign countries.
Chairman of the 1948-49 relief cam-
paign at Notre Dame was Jack Demp-
sey, of Philadelphia, Pa. The amount
raised at Notre Dame came through the
sponsorship of football victory dances,
door-to-door canvasses, clothing drives
and an all-campus carnival.
Louis J. Burns, of Washington, D. C.,
a June graduate at Notre Dame, served
as national campaign chairman. Joseph
A. Conerty, Jr., senior in the Notre
Dame College of Law from Crystal
Lake, Ill., was national publicity di-
rector.
ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION
PROVIDES NEW GENERATOR
The large Radiation Chemistry Proj-
ect at the University of Notre Dame
will be jointly sponsored by Notre Dame
and the Atomic Energy Commission, ac-
cording to a contract announced recent-
ly by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,
C.S.C., President of Notre Dame.
This is one of the several significant
scientific programs for which the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame Foundation is
seeking $1,750,000 for the proposed
Science Building, initial project in a
long-range expansion program.
Under the terms of an agreement
reached between Notre Dame and the
Atomic Energy Commission, the AEG
will provide a 2.000,000-volt Van de
Graff electrostatic generator for use by
the Notre Dame Radiation Chemistry
Project. The new “atom smasher,”
which will produce both high velocity
electrons and X-rays, will be housed in
a concrete structure to be built by the
University. Construction of the struc-
ture to house the “atom smasher,”
which is separate from the Science
Building proper, will be started this
Fall and the generator is expected to be
ready for operation next Spring.
The new electrostatic generator, when
installed at Notre Dame, will be the
second such generator being used at
Notre Dame to conduct atomic research.
A 4,000,000-volt generator is used for
experimentation in the Department of
Physics at the University. (See “Atom
Smashing” on page 3, this issue).
Purpose of the Radiation Chemistry
Project at Notre Dame, which is con-
cerned only with fundamental scientific
research, is to study the general effects
of high energy radiation which are pro-
duced in the processes of radioactive
decay in all types of substances. It is
the aim of the Notre Dame project to
determine what harm and what good
this radiation does, and why it does
harm and good. Such scientific material
is fundamental to the development of
atomic power, and has applications in
many other fields.
Director of the Radiation Chemistry
Project at Notre Dame is Dr. Milton
Burton who during World War II was
in charge of the Radiation Chemistry
Research of the Manhattan District
Project. Dr. Burton was a scientific
observer at the Bikini tests following
the war.
Other members of’the faculty who
are on the Radiation Chemistry Project
staff include: Dr. William H. Hamill,
Dr. Russell R. Williams, Dr. John L.
Magee and Dr. Andrew J. Boyle.
Vol. 2 • No. 4 a2l
NOTRE DAME AIDS GRADUATES
IN OBTAINING EMPLOYMENT
Job counseling for undergraduates
and for graduates who may be dis-
placed by an economic recession is the
number one task to be performed in
the immediate future by the University
of Notre Dame and by the Notre Dame
Alumni Association, in the opinion of
the Board of Directors of the Alumni
Association which met recently on the
campus.
Discussing many projects in the
broad program of the Notre Dame
alumni, all directors agreed that the
basic service to the individual graduate
is to help him obtain employment. This
help begins with the intensification of
Notre Dame’s present program of un-
dergraduate vocational counseling.
If the board program succeeds, the
University efforts will be supplemented
by a national network of practical help
for Notre Dame men through the 112
Notre Dame Clubs in every key city in
the United States, and by a national
committee of business, professional and
industrial leaders among the Univer-
sity’s alumni.
NATIONAL CANCER INSTITUTE
AWARDS GRANT TO ND CHEMIST
Synthetic production of a compound
which will successfully kill cancer cells
without killing the normal cells in a
human body is the aim of research cur-
rently being conducted by a University
of Notre Dame chemist.
The scientist, Dr. Kenneth N. Camp-
bell, Professor of Organic Chemistry at
Notre Dame, recently was awarded a
$7,200 grant by the National Cancer
Institute to continue his research in
cancer'. . This is one of the several
significant scientific programs for which
the University of Notre Dame Foun-
dation is seeking $1,750,000 for the new
Science Center.
A certain amount of success has been
accomplished to date in the experi-
ments which have produced compounds
of decreasing toxic power. The twenty-
eight compounds produced thus far in
the Notre Dame laboratories under the
supervision of Dr. Campbell have been
sent either to the National Cancer In-
stitute laboratories in Washington, D.
C., or the Sloan-Kettring laboratories in
.New York City. The drugs are then
tried on cancerous mice.
EISENHOWER STRESSES NEED
FOR INDEPENDENT THINKING
Great universities have lived longer
than most governments. Only when
they become identified with some nar-
rowly defined concept, or have been
dominated by some power or pressure
group, have they withered or lost their
true usefulness to the world. The mo-
ment that a university loses its inde-
pendence, it is of course no longer a
university.
We expect to teach oncoming gen-
erations of students that intellectual,
spiritual and political freedom has been
the principal ingredient of American
greatness. We shall make sure that
they understand our country and its
basic moral and physical aspects.
As an independent, gift-supported
University, we must move boldly, admit
mistakes, and speak frankly about what
we are doing. I think the public would
quickly grow tired of institutional ad-
ministrators who might endeavor to
cloak themselves in an impenetrable
mantle of nobility, rather than to get
on with their jobs.—President Dwight
D. Eisenhower, Columbia University, in
a letter to Alumni.
Many of the recipients of NOTRE DAME have asked
whether they may not pay a subscription fee. We are
grateful for this thoughtful gesture but NOTRE DAME is
not for sale. This magazine is sent to you as a friend by
the University in response to the interest manifested in the
University of Notre Dame and the important work being
undertaken here.


Gifts already received from non-alumni friends, as well as
alumni, have been instrumental in furthering the Universi-
ty’s program for buildings, scholarships and research. Your
own contribution may be a determining factor in providing
aid for Notre Dame scientists to reduce fatalities from heart
disease and cancer.
- •’M -
An invitation to you
To be an active participant in financially assisting the training of
young men to be moral, responsible leaders in your
community and in all America,
(Name)
(Address)
Gifts should be payable to the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME and mailed to
the UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION, Notre Dame, Indiana.
22
Notre Dame


Today and Tomorrow in Science
Organic Chemistry Lab,
Despite crowded laboratories and classrooms experiments in science, are being and have been, investigated
on the Notre Dame campus. Among the many projects are research studies in:
Rh FACTOR—Dr. Charles C. Price and his asso-
which became the first commercially successful
dates have isolated dangerous Rh antibodies in
the blood, which may cause still-births and mis-
carriages in pregnancy, as well as jaundice and
other blood diseases in infants.
ANTI-MALARIAL DRUGS—Development, by Dr.
Kenneth W. Campbell, of a substance which has
proved superior to both quinine and atabrine in
fighting malaria.
SYNTHETIC RUBBER—Components of neoprene,
synthetic rubber in Ameria, were discovered by
Father Julius Nieuwland, C.S.C.
ATOMIC ENERGY—Of vital importance to
national defense are experiments in Radiation
Chemistry and Nuclear Physics—a continuation of
research problems of World War II.
MATHEMATICS—Studies in advanced mate-
matics that^have potential effects on planning
arctic navigation charts for the Army Air Forces.
MSI
IWi	*


BIBS

The proposed new Science Center can.be ^reality with
your help. Approximately onerhalf ofthej necessary
$1,750,000 to erect the building has b:een given. This
is the true test. Will Nofre Dame’s .thousands of
friends—those who have adopted ©ur Lady’s Univer-
sity for their own Alma Mafer^pally to the challenge ?
The financial assistance of &V£ry friend; sis' urgently
needed—now! Your gift^mailed tpday^will build
the Notre Dame of tomorrow. L iW ‘ 7
7.

ti
Fj
H
U
u
n
s
l'
H
r*
>■
S
k
r
f