The
Entered as 2nd class matter May 10,1948, at post office of Notre Dame,
Ind, under Act of Aug 24, 1912. Published quarterly. Vol 3, No. 1,1950
Notre Dame, Indiana
THE CAMPUS
50 Buildings • Two Beautiful Lakes
1,700 Magnificently Wooded Acres
^>LOBUND
(BALT
KIOLOGY LAB.)
In black: Buildings erected before 1910.
&
HfAT-POWfR. PLAHT
In blue: Buildings erected since 1910.
ST JOSEPH’S LAKS
In red: Proposed buildings.
GLL4NHOUSL
FARLEY
G (LOTTO
COLBY
GYMNASIUM
£| CARTIER FIELD
A
POST OFFICE
COMMERCE bldg
- MAIN ENTRANCE
STADIUM
GOLT COURSE
LAG II DRY
SISTER’S CONVENT
PRESBYTERY
JUD
WAkfHOim,
IHFILMALY
■ garage
ST. EDWARDS
ZAHM
Tjy nW IJEIKE HALL
ST MALY'S LAKE
OLD COLLEGE
LOG CHAPEL
LIBRARY
ADMINISTRATION
WASHINGTON HAU
GL
LOCMF MEMORIAL
HOTRE DAME INN
AU DITOR1UM
AVE MALIA PLESS
SHAM PLAHT
BIOLOGY BLDG
GS^TIUHOUST
is1
SCIENCE BLDG
PHILLIPS
----DRILL HALL--------
CHEMISTRY BUILDING
LI BILAL AND FINE ALTS
4
'	V 6 L 3 . N O I
Notre Dame’s famous Golden Dome and Sacred Heart Church are appropriately prominent
in a visitor’s, parent's or new student's first view of the campus from the University entrance.
One Fraternity...
40,000 Members
These are words and pictures about a university with
a single purpose: to train, within the next 35 years, a sec-
- ond 40,000 talented young men for moral, responsible lead-
ership in the communities of America . . . and then
another 40,000 . . . and another . . .
Notre Dame’s first 40,000 young men have been trained
for such leadership in the years since November, 1842,
when 28-year-old Father Edward Sorin, with three other
French and four "Fighting Irish” brothers of the Congre- j
gation of Holy Cross, founded Notre Dame . . . just north r
of South Bend, Indiana ... on land given by the first u
priest ever ordained in the United States . . . beside a lake
which, "with its mantle of snow, resplendently white, was ’
to us a symbol of the stainless purity of Our Lady.”
The story of such training is more than the story of 40 ■
Departments offering degrees in Colleges of Arts and Letters,
Science, Law, Commerce and Engineering; 15 Departments
offering the Doctor’s degree; the Mediaeval Institute; the ■
Laboratories of Bacteriology; 50 buildings, and a stadium .
in which Notre Dame’s 4,800 students gather with other
thousands to "wake up the echoes cheering her name”
and "shake down the thunder from the sky.”
*



*
4
Overlooking Notre Dame’s main entrance from the west, the new "Notre Dame Inn” will
overcome a longstanding lack of campus housing for guests, alumni and students’ parents.
One Fraternity— {continued)
The story of Notre Dame is much more than that: it is,
in the words of its students’ own annual, The Dome, a story
of young men contributing "the gifts of their imaginations
and the experiences of their regions” to a common "know!
edge perceived by the senses, fused by the intellect, in

—
tegrated by religious guidance . . . men from all the union,
from hard soil and rich, who come and are called the
'Irish,’ but who are living visions of a long American
process, the slow molding of a nation out of many peoples
and customs . . . men divided, but one in understanding
and in the spirit.”
It is the story of young men selected for native intelli-
gence and moral character sufficient to mark them as the
finest raw material for that local community leadership
which, with enlightened central leadership, is one of so-
. ciety’s sorest needs today.
A
■ It is the story of their life together . . . their classrooms;
their libraries; their quivering lakes; their football Satur-
days;. their long quadrangles; their residence halls, pre-
fected and counselled by resident priests, each with its
own chapel and daily Mass and Holy Communion; the
"quiet purpose” of their years here—"strong in the dim
sanctity of the transepts of Sacred Heart Church, in the
clear vision of Cross and Dome, in the old melody of /
'O Salutaris’ chiming down wooded paths, in the soft gray
simplicity of- the Grotto, in the Stations of the Cross by
the lake—in every walk and tree, every building, every heart
—this 'quiet purpose,’ this tradition, this real 'Spirit of
Notre Dame’: a man’s love for Jesus and Mary.”
No mere formal part of a formal creed, this virtual habit
of personal worship at Notre Dame; it is a part of these
young men’s very lives—guiding them reverently to new
knowledge, "with a deep and humble awareness of Him t
Who authored all things and of His Mother who enhances
all things, and thus bestowing upon such new knowledge a
strength and purpose and lucidity which otherwise it can
not have.”	/	,
Edward's (1882) is one of the oldest of Notre Dame's 13 residence halls. It must
replaced by one of six new residence halls when sufficient funds are available.
St.
be

r

Indeed, it is hard
to tell the Catholic boy from the
nearly 500 (about 10%) non-Catholics at Notre Dame.
The late Knute Rockne, for instance, a completely typical
Notre Dame undergraduate, did not become a Catholic
until nearly 12 years after his graduation. .	; < •
Notre Dame believes it is the whole man who should be
' educated . . . rather than any mere part of the man.
-	And Notre Dame believes that a man should be educated
< in high standards of life ... as well as for high standards
■ of living.




r
freshman hazing; there are no fraternities. ment! ”) . . . Breen-Phillips
There is
no
<»
ir
dig



coaches’ quarters . . . Farley
has the ticket office and
is the newest (1946) . . .
Lyons is on the lake . . . Zahm has the best “rec room,”
and her twin, Cavanaugh (both built in 1936), is proud
of her classic record concerts, religious library and read-
ing room.

■fc
4
But each of the 13 residence halls has its heated rivalries
and spirited traditions: Morrissey (above) boasts a panelled
reception foyer . . . old Sorin is the first residence hall ever
built at an American Catholic school (1872) . . ; Walsh
has closets (and says “no other hall can make that state-
Above: Sorin, 1872, rebuilt in 1889; Badin, 1897, and Walsh, built in 1909.
Below: Lyons, 1926; Howard, 1925; Alumni, 1931, and Dillon, 1931.
Full Life on
a Full Campus
“Learning to live with people” may be a cliche; but
every Notre Dame man is incomparably grateful for his
opportunity to live closely for four years with other Notre
Dame men pursuing other curricular interests and stem-
ming from other geographical areas and cultural climates
than his own.
But many Notre Dame men recently have missed a few
of the important advantages of spending the entire under-
graduate period on the campus. Nearly a thousand of them
(almost one-fifth) live in private homes in downtown South
Bend. They lose valuable time in coming and going, and
at least some of the relaxed enjoyment of Notre Dame
residence hall life and social functions.
And there is, as yet, no Union Building to make daytime
headquarters.
All students once were housed under the Dome of the
main building! But excellent performance of its role in the
educational world has brought Notre Dame face to face with
new demands, new opportunities for still greater service to
young men and the nation. Still, as always, Notre Dame
refuses to turn down any more worthy applicants than
necessary, even those in need of financial assistance. This
is one reason why Notre Dame, unlike many other uni-
wealth—or even appreciable
Architect’s conception of one of six new residence halls to be
erected when sufficient financial assistance is at hand. They would
bring all Notre Dame undergraduates back onto the campus.
versifies, never has known
financial reserve.
ri *154 ft*
4T<T-4
The proposed new Union Building, in which the University hopes
to provide additional recreational and dining facilities and a
home for publications, would be an activity center serving as a
virtual laboratory for the further development of leadership.
Such a Union Building is common to all other major universities.

Uf, (jxv
I
"	* ‘A-*


*
"Modern Conveniences”
. . . 15,000 meals a day can be served in the Central Dining Halls
(above), which also contain an excellent cafeteria for faculty, vis-
itors and off-campus students . . . the 3-story Infirmary (left),
served by Holy Cross Sisters and University physicians, is of first
importance at Notre Dame, which never has forgotten its tragic
experiences of cholera and malarial fever a century ago ... a virtu-
ally self-sufficient city, the Notre Dame campus provides its stu-
dents with their own post office, telegraph and railway express
office, snack shop (The Huddle), book store, laundry and dry clean-
ing service—even a barbershop and shoe and watch repair shops.
Vets’ Mayor and Council
Notre Dame’s Vetville, the autonomous community
which more than 100 veterans of World War II and their
families made home, has been frequently and nationally
recognized as one of the nation’s most successful examples
not only of veteran housing, but of the finest kind of self-
government as well. A mayor and Vetville council have
been elected at regular intervals, and have been held re-
sponsible by the veterans and their wives for sound and
equitable administration of the community’s laws, regu-
lations and general welfare.
MS
irrrs
st 1
r^j
»X3
Mellow Traditions”
Most frequented of all Notre Dame’s cherished landmarks is
the Grotto, replica of the shrine at Lourdes, in a wooded area
near the lakes, just back of the Church. The inspiration of a
student of 1855, it was erected in 1896 by his benefaction . . .
The Log Chapel is a restoration of the original, which was stand-
ing when Notre Dame was founded in 1842; many alumni return
to be married there; it was the scene of Knute Rockne’s baptism
following his conversion at the age of 37 . . . Pictured below are
Notre Dame students of an earlier date, and “Old College” (now
the Mission House), erected four months after the University’s
founding. It housed a classroom, bakery, refectory, clothes room
and dormitories for then-only-hoped-for students. Like so many
of Notre Dame’s buildings still in use, “Old College” was built
of bricks made by the priests and brothers from marl found on
the banks of the lake.
I



ft
Sum'll Heart
J
niiirdi
ri
Under the 7-ton bell and 23-bell chimes of Notre Dame’s Sacred Heart
Church, which overlooks the statue of Christ in the foreground, rise great
- arched ceilings which, with the Stations of the Cross, comprise superb
■*’ exhibits of the talent of Luigi Gregori . . . Its beautiful stained-glass
windows were the work of Carmelite nuns in Le Mans, France . . . The
’ lovely altar in Lady Chapel is the only example in the United States of
the work of the famed Bernini . . . The bodies of several early and dis-
tinguished missionaries to this country are interred in the crypt. . . The
• grave of Orestes Brownson, famous Catholic philosopher, is in the down-
stairs chapel of the Church.
The liiilileii Hume
High above the campus stands the golden sta- ’
tue of Our Lady, on the world-famous Golden
Dome—always the University’s spiritual sym- '
bol and for 85 years its physical symbol as well.
Here in the 5-story Administration Building
(1879), the University’s Administration works '
tirelessly to keep the soul of Notre Dame housed
in a healthy body. Holy Cross priests, once con-
stituting the entire faculty, receive no compen-
sation but their subsistence. But salaried lay,’
members of the faculty now comprise four-fifths
of the teaching personnel. Even the student,
paying full tuition defrays only 70 U of the'
cost of his education. New opportunities for '
leadership, which have come to the University)
in the wake of an educational job well done, ,
demand new facilities and expansion and re-‘
sources. And they, in turn, can come only from __
private benefactors. For Notre Dame receives ।
no financial assistance from church or state. .
Founder Sorin spoke prophetic words in 1844: .
“When this school, Our Lady’s school, shall-
grow a bit more, I shall raise her aloft so that,)
without asking, all men shall know why we
have succeeded here. To that Lovely Lady,*
raised high on a dome, a Golden Dome, men^
may look and find the answer.”	j:
L

COMPARISON
From a campus office in the main building, the Foundation works with
a "field force” of more than 1,000 prominent alumni and non-alumni in
225 cities, without pay or professional "fund-raising” assistance, to
further the cause of Christian higher education.
	Total	Per Student	Annual 4% Investment Return per Student
Amherst		$13,761,231	$11,632.49	$465.28
Dartmouth		25,000,000	8,333.33	333.32
Duke		47,685,091	10,641.62	425.68
Harvard		182,824,335	14,509.87	580.40
Northwestern		60,000,000	5,882.35	235.28
Oberlin		23,668,918	10,426.85	417.08
Princeton		43,051,775	10,656.38	426.24
Rochester		53,000,000	30,477.29	1,219.08
Williams		13,176,781	11,870.97	474.84
Yale		124,673,459	13,860.37	554.40
NOTRE DAME		4,077,587	849.50	33.98
ENDOWMENT
*based on figures from 1949 World Almanac
NOTE: Notre Damers alumni, asked by the Foundation whether they agreed that they should "cultivate
their own garden” before seeking non-alumni gifts, responded with a 77% participation in the
alumni giving program—as against a national alumni participation average of only 33%!
II
II
t”
Meanwhile—in the tin, paint, carpentry, plumbing and elec-
tric shops, comprising a picturesque little sector like something
lifted from a French village and placed in the shadow of Notre
Dame’s main building—about $10,000 a month is being saved
because Notre Dame has its own maintenance department. On
its staff are 50 skilled union repairmen, 15 movers and haulers
Two Kinds of
Maintenance
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
was organized in mid-1947 to make “the real
Notre Dame” as well known as its football
teams and to encourage needed financial gifts
for essential development.
The Foundation seeks to help the Univer-
sity make the most of new educational and
research possibilities, sustain its dollar-aid to
deserving students, hold student tuition and
fees to a minimum, meet costs far greater than
any in its earlier history, serve a larger stu-
dent body, plan needed new buildings, provide
for faculty and staff retirement and sick relief
and enhance a faculty whose unpaid priests no
longer comprise more than 20% of the total,
the remainder being salaried laymen.
Bit by bit, “the real Notre Dame” is being
described in pieces of literature and in Notre
Dame, a new magazine, for thousands of non-
Notre Dame people who had not realized that
it ranks scholastically among the top Ameri-
can universities, that it receives no financial
aid from state or church, that its endow-
ment is the lowest among all major colleges
and universities, that its football revenue is
only 8% of its income (only enough to pay
for its intramural and other sports programs
and its aid to students) and that it constitutes
one of America’s greatest hopes for the defense
of Christian freedom.
and 20 men who keep up the grounds. A two-engine fire depart-
ment stands guard to prevent any recurrence of the fire of
1879, which almost completely destroyed the University.
A proposed new Maintenance Building, to unify operations
and effect greater efficiency and savings, must be deferred
until more pressing needs have' been met.
ml iiii
Oldest of all its colleges—and, of course, most basic to the
Notre Dame philosophy of educating “the whole man”—is the
College of Arts and Letters.
With the College now physically dispersed through many
parts of the campus . . . with the crowded Department of Fine
Arts occupying a small “Seventh Heaven” niche under the
Dome ... and with the facilities of Washington Hall taxed past
any feasible concept of “capacity” . . . plans for a new and
versatile building are hopefully envisioned.
The new Liberal and Fine Arts Building will unify the work
of the College of Arts and Letters; provide much-needed class-
room space and Administrative offices, and provide facilities
for expanded Departments of Art, Music, Dramatics, Radio 3
and Communications, and Speech (Notre Dame has been fl
winning national championships in debate as well as in football!) fl
Proposed Liberal and Fine Arts Building
The present University Library, erected in 1917. Notre
Dame enrollment at that time: 600. Today: 4,800.
The Library’s Relatives
Have Moved In to Stay
When a student "goes to the library” at Notre Dame, he
may not be "going to the library” at all.
He may be going in to see the Rubens, VanDyck, Murillo,
Tintoretto, Constable and other original masterpieces in
the Wightman, Reilly, Braschi and Wickett collections,
which comprise one of the largest and most valuable ac-
cumulations of Christian art in the United States ... or
to visit the Archives, or The Mediaeval Institute, or the
famous Dante Library of 3,000 volumes hi 40 languages,
or the Bureau of Economic Research.
These "relatives,” whom the library let in when they
had no other place to go, have moved in to stay. They’ve
found ideal quarters—if the library can just find a new
Below: Proposed New Library
home of its own!
ABOVE: (Right) Madonna and Saints, altar piece painted between 1385 and 1392 by an unknown Italian
artist and brought to Notre Dame from France in 1864 as a gift of Pope Pius IX. BELOW: (Left) Original
painting of St. Teresa (17th Century, by a follower of Guido Reni), found beneath a scraped-away painting of
St. Rose of Lima. (Center) Madonna and Child, by Lorenzo di Credi, contemporary of Leonardo. (Right)
Portrait of Sir Patterson of Leith, famous Scotch civil engineer, by Sir Henry Raeburn (1756-1823).
f
Wiai'ial
Inslilnle
The Institute seeks to translate the underlying principles L
of our civilization, which is basically Christian, into the j
language of contemporary men—and thus to bring the in-
fluence of those principles more acutely to bear upon the
problems of personal contemporary living and upon the ,1"
broader social, economic and political problems confront- ’
ing peoples and nations throughout the world.	!
This unprecedentedly comprehensive effort at Notre j
Dame has won the invaluable assistance of the most highly .
One of the most important, fascinating and promising de-
qualified of specialists in palaeography, Mediaeval Latin ;
velopments in modern higher education is Notre Dame’s
Mediaeval Institute, established in recent years by Notre
Dame’s president and his council to help the contemporary
world repossess itself completely of its own Christian tradi-
tion, expressed in terms of modern problems.
and early vernacular languages and literatures; authorities
on Mediaeval art, archaeology, science, medicine and Jew- ,
ish, Arabian and Byzantine cultures; theologians; philoso-
phers; historians; experts in Roman and Mediaeval canon ■
and civil law, and liturgical scholars.	}
5
The Theatre Circuit
Slightly Shorted
rr
Excellent stage productions by the student body
(feminine roles are filled by the belles of nearby St.
Mary’s); visiting symphonies and other guest con-
cert performers; such lecturers as Msgr. Fulton J.
Sheen, G. K. Chesterton, Hilaire Belloc, Jacques
Maritain, Etienne Gilson; bands; choirs; glee clubs;
vaudevilles; movies—all these and many other stage
attractions long have played to "capacity audiences”
at Notre Dame.
But "capacity”—in old Washington Hall, built
in 1882—is only 900 of today’s 4,800 interested
undergraduates.
Commencement exercises, once held in Washing-
ton Hall, now are held in the stadium or Navy Drill
Hall, where a total of 10,000 members of the
Naval R.O.T.C. were trained during World War II.

ABOVE: Student productions of (Left) Gilbert & Sullivan’s Pirates of Penzance and (Right) The Milky
Way. BELOW: Lectures by Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen (Left) have become a virtual institution at Notre
Dame, where he appears frequently. (Center) View of last commencement held in Washington Hall,
before moving to Navy Drill Hall (Right) and stadium. When a new auditorium becomes a financial
possibility, the Drill Hall may be retained as a movie theatre.

*
n «
IJF*
raw -
*
The still-hoped-for new Auditorium would meet Notre Dame's longstanding need of
adequate seating capacity for student, parent, civic and other campus convocations.
15
fF


rm
Vfi
r 4
h »
w


Everyman” (in time) (an "Play Many Parts

The proposed new Notre Dame Auditorium would do
even more than accommodate from 8,000 to 10,000 persons
for events and productions which now are either impossi-
ble to attract to the campus or necessarily limited to a
fraction of potential audiences.
The new Auditorium, to be sure, would make possible
more and better theatre, symphony and opera not only for
Notre Dame undergraduates but for a South Bend public
facilities for such
occasions.
lacks adequate
which also
But, in the important interests of economy and effi-
ciency, the new building also would house a basketball
court (the present gymnasium, which was built more than
half-a-century ago, holds a top of 4,200) —thus removing
any need of a separate structure.
An ice arena, a relatively simple addition to the con-
struction plans, would make it possible for ice hockey to
become a Notre Dame sport and for traveling ice shows to
schedule campus appearances.
Campus Periodicals
With the counsel, guidance and integrating di-
, rection of the University’s Board of Publications,
comprised of faculty and Administrative representa-
tives, five periodicals are prepared and edited on the
campus:
. The Scholastic—the student weekly for over 80
years.
The Dome—the University annual for over 45 years.
The Juggler—student literary quarterly.
The Religious Bulletin—distributed to Notre
Dame men in their residence halls, and to many
universities and alumni subscribers, three times
a week.
The Journalist—a laboratory publication of the
Department of Journalism.

I
I
Known the World Over
btre Dame Publications
♦
Few of the world’s universities lay claim to a set of nationally and internationally ।
circulated publications so extensive, so varied and so universally respected as those '
prepared and edited at Notre Dame.
While some have done more to increase the University’s stature in scholarly and '
academic circles than to take “the real Notre Dame story” to the general public,
all are growing in circulation and are bringing a great many other publications to
the campus as exchanges—at a time when the University’s budget for such material	'
is necessarily curtailed.	*
The Review of Politics—a quarterly edited by Dr. Waldemar Gurian, of Notre ,
Dame’s Department of Political Science. Walter Lippmann has said that it has ’
“no superiors in the English-speaking world in the serious discussion of international
politics.” Regular contributors include Jacques Maritain, Mortimer Adler, Chris-
topher Hollis, Don Luigi Sturzo (founder of Italy’s Christian Democratic Party), >
John U. Nef (professor of economic history, University of Chicago) and others. ,
It is repeatedly lauded by top college and university scholars, and the heads of
Yale’s Institute of International Studies have called it “indispensable reading
for the political scientist.”
The American Midland Naturalist—founded 40 years ago by Father Julius A. r
Nieuwland (as well known in botany as for his discovery of the components of >
neoprene synthetic rubber)—to chronicle the natural history, first of the Middle ’
West, now of the entire nation.	’
The Notre Dame Lawyer—published for a quarter of a century by students and
faculty of Notre Dame’s School of Law.
Publications in Mediaeval Studies—by the Mediaeval Institute.
Publications in Mathematics—a series of lectures by distinguished Mathe-
maticians.	»■
Notre Dame—an informative illustrated magazine begun in 1948 to tell “the ..
real Notre Dame story” to friends of the University: fascinating developments in
research and in Notre Dame’s distinctive program for the training of moral, 1
responsible leaders.
The Alumnus—bi-monthly magazine distributed regularly to 15,000 alumni. ■„
The Ave Maria—well known Catholic home weekly, founded in 1865 by Father 1
Sorin (founder of Notre Dame), and edited by members of the Congregation of
Holy Cross.
The Catholic Boy—a national Catholic monthly for boys, edited and published ,
by the Congregation of Holy Cross.
Concord—national Catholic student magazine.	'
YCS Leader—written by representatives of Catholic colleges and universities
throughout the nation, and fostering the causes of Catholic Action.	’
The University Press
Equipped with modern automatic Kelly, Miehle and
Gordon presses—as well as a magazine press and a
battery of Intertype typesetting machines—the Uni-
versity Press and Ave Maria Press are housed in a
modern building where many books, pamphlets, bul-
letins, announcements and other University printed
pieces are prepared.
The work is done by 50 Holy Cross brothers and
lay employees.
Additional equipment includes 32 machine type
faces and sizes; 161 hand type faces and sizes; elec-
tric cutting, trimming and folding machines; auto-
matic gang stitchers; smaller hand-fed stitchers,
and automatic addressing units.
--   — . ——r    — ; —ar   — — p --    -*-
„	t.
J
World’s First
Synthetic Rubber
The superb record which Notre Dame has made in sci-
ence through the years is dramatically and faithfully ex-
emplified in Father Julius A. Nieuwland, the priest-scientist
who long headed the Chemistry Department until his
death in 1936.
Distinguished pioneer of neoprene synthetic rubber, fore-
most authority of his day on acetylene and a renowned
botanist, Father Nieuwland was the very embodiment of
the kind of aggressive scientific inquiry which is carefully
guided by a reverence of Christian truth.
It is the Nieuwland ideal which still permeates the train-
ing of Notre Dame undergraduates today—when the world
stands sorely in need not merely of scientists, but of well-
rounded men who are also scientists—when fully 60 percent
of American scientists are without church affiliation of any
kind. Fortunately, Notre Dame’s past accomplishments in
science have brought to its students and faculty the great-
est opportunities for new pioneering which they yet
have known.

Father Nieuwland in his laboratory in old Chemistry Hall. Having made and sold botanical slides to
finance the experiments which followed his isolation of the components of neoprene synthetic rubber
in 1906, Father Nieuwland went on to discover the process of acetylene polymerization which
enabled DuPont scientists actually to synthesize the first practical synthetic rubber—which they
first called Duprene, then Neoprene.


A program to raise funds for a new Science and Mathematics Classroom-Laboratory Building—
long at the very top of Notre Dame's list of pressing needs—was launched early in 1949. Available
from previous Foundation gifts was $350,000, with $1,400,000 needed for completion. Inadequate
chemistry and physics laboratory space, research space terribly limited in the light of new oppor-
tunities in these fields, and existing equipment in danger of fire in old Science Hall, made this program
vitally necessary.
World’s First
Victory Over
the Illi Factor
Isolation of chemical compounds capable of neutraliz-
ing dangerous Rh antibodies in the blood (which cause
miscarriages and stillbirths) was reported late in 1948
in The Journal of the American Chemical Society by Dr.
Charles C. Price, young head of the Department of
Chemistry. It was one of many such contributions to
humanity resulting from constant Notre Dame work in
science. (Dr. Price, in 1946, at the age of 33, received
the American Chemical Society’s Award in Pure Chem-
istry.) Many men and women may in the future owe
their very lives to Notre Dame scientists, who also have
been responsible for anti-malarial drugs promising re-
lief for milhons of victims every year.
This work on the Rh factor and anti-malarial drugs,
along with that in radioactive chemistry and further
advanced rubber research, has all been done in old
Chemistry Hall despite almost prohibitive handicaps.
Above: Chemistry Hall
Below: Biology Building
Physics laboratory
theory, has been in high-gear progress for some
time at Notre Dame—in the first polymer phys-
ics laboratory of its kind in the United States.
Other outstanding work in science has been
+■
so consistently sustained at Notre Dame in the
past 50 years that it is easy to lose sight of
earlier achievements.
In May, 1899, for instance, Dr. Jerome Green
sent the nation’s first successful wireless mes-
sage from the spire of Sacred Heart Church to
nearby St. Mary’s College.
Pending completion of the new Science Cen-
ter, young men are constantly at work in the
old Science Hall (below) with the big electro-
static generator (above) on peaceful applica-
tions of atomic energy, with ultrasonic waves,
advanced plastics research, radiation chemistry,
television and in many other important fields
of science.
joL.
World’s First
Germ-Free Life
in Autoclaves
Out of Notre Dame have come the first autoclave-established
answers to the centuries-old scientific question: “Is animal life
possible without bacteria?” And the answers are throwing new
light on problems of cancer, heart disease, nutrition, virus in-
fection, tooth decay, airborne diseases and many others. The
Navy, Parke-Davis and Co., the University of Chicago Dental
Clinic and the Kellogg Co. are among many turning to Lobund
(Laboratories of Bacteriology, University of Notre Dame)
for those answers.
The thinking of one man made this work possible: Professor
James A. Reyniers, a 1928 Notre Dame graduate, now director
of Lobund’s 45 laboratories and more than 50 research sci-
entists, technicians and office personnel. And, like the rubber
and Rh experiments, the early day-and-night Germ-Free work
19
ABOVE: This germ-free monkey, delivered into the germ-free
environment of an autoclave by Caesarean section, is breath-
ing germ-free air and drinking germ-free milk every hour, 24
hours a day, 7 days a week, until weaned—then will eat
germ-free food until autopsied by technician wearing sealed-
in germ-free gloves and standing outside germ-free cage.





to
k*


BELOW: Glove form is plastic-coated in midst of special div-
ing-suit equipment worn in apparatus where entire germ-free
colonies are reared.
was done in a tiny makeshift laboratory in old Chemistry Hall.
Lobund, first to make it possible to exclude germs from experi-
ments (and to introduce specific germs to the exclusion of
others) by autoclave, now is divided into three divisions: Germ-
Free Life, Biological Engineering and Micrurgy.
,4
Germ-free animals are delivered in germ-free operating
cage (Right), then passed through germ-free connecting
lock into germ-free rearing cage (Left).

The new Germ-Free Production Laboratory. Every suc-
cessfully reared germ-free animal is completely autopsied
—blood, teeth and all organs are analyzed and photo-
graphed.

One of three dynamometers in Notre Dame's Heat Power Laboratory.
Mechanical engineering student milling a slot for inserted tool bit in
metal processing machine shop.
feta
World’s First
Modern
Aeronautical Science
Notre Dame’s Departments of Civil and Mechanical
Engineering, founded in 1873 and 1886, were the first
engineering departments ever established in an Ameri-
can Catholic school. Today, of course, Electrical, Chem-
ical, Metallurgical, Aeronautical and Architectural En-
gineering also are taught at Notre Dame, where special
work has kept Metallurgy itself apace of demands for
supersonic aircraft metals.
Albert F. Zahm, a graduate of Notre Dame in 1883
and a member of her Engineering faculty until 1893, is
credited by many with being the virtual founder of mod-
ern aeronautical science. Although deprived of vital
models and equipment by lack of funds, it was Zahm
whose thinking led to design of a successful model heli-
copter, the world’s first wind tunnel at Notre Dame be-
fore the world’s first wind tube (also built by Zahm, in
1901), and a man-carrying glider. He organized Amer-
ica’s first International Aeronautic Congress (Chicago,
1893), at which, in one of two historic papers, he was
first to describe the modern method of launching a plane
—10 years before the Wright Brothers’ flight at Kitty
Hawk. Zahm also held the Guggenheim Chair of Aero-
nautics in the Library of Congress.

The College of Engineering (a gift of John F. Cushing, C.E., ’06) includes an
auditorium for 500 and a special laboratory for motion and time study.

Commerce
Dame’s Largest
Notre
1
*4/


< ft'
Thr Ciiileur ill

Known today throughout the nation as a fine center of train-
ing for young men not only in the ways of commerce per se,
but in business ethics and in the need of integrating Christian
precepts with business practice, Notre Dame’s College of Com-
merce, which graduated only 6 men in 1913, increased that
number to more than 300 in 1920. Today it is the University’s
largest college.
The College of Commerce is a bulwark of the traditions of
enlightened American enterprise. Its faculty is augmented by
guest lecturers from among America’s top business institutions.
The beautiful eight-foot recessed, revolving, aluminum globe
(above), floodlighted in the two-story memorial hall in the
center of the Commerce Building, is raised and lowered
hydraulically.
Home of the College of Commerce, gift of the late Edward N. Hurley, of Chicago.
*	At the main campus entrance—Notre Dame’s College of Law.
!
Nation’s First
Catholic
College of Law
This oldest Catholic law school in the United States now is
housed in a beautiful 3-story modem building at the main en-
trance to the Notre Dame campus.
Its much-used assembly hall seating 350, its excellent trial
courtroom, its modern Gothic 35,000-volume library and read-
ing room—these and its other facilities are but aids to the
exposition of its well known basic philosophy: that God is the
source of all meaningful legal authority, and hence that law
cannot properly be studied or taught unless considered in that
light; that the American Declaration of Independence and our
nation’s “first law,” its Constitution, derive their entire validity
from their recognition of the prime authority of God.
Dr. Clarence E. Manion, the Dean of Notre Dame’s Col-
lege of Law, has been for many years one of the nation’s most
successfully articulate public sponsors of the basic concept that
the valid laws of government are rooted in the laws of God.
Nation’s First
Institute
of Natural Law
More than 600 of the nation’s best legal minds—jurists,
lawyers, legislators, philosophers, educators, businessmen and
others—are summoned each year to Notre Dame’s significant
new Natural Law Institute for a joint study of the Natural
Law, fundamental basis of human rights, the law of God recog-
nized by human reason.
The purpose of the Institute is to reaffirm, in a world en-
—

gulfed by pragmatic materialism, the proposition that the
roots of all human liberty can continue to rest with safety only
in a recognition of the immutability of the principle of justice
and the universality of morality ... to study and re-proclaim
the fresh and vital doctrine of the Natural Law to a legal pro-
fession “full of tangled things, texts and aching eyes” (in the
words of G. K. Chesterton) ... to increase and intensify recog-
nition of the Natural Law by those most responsible for the
moral, economic, political and cultural well-being of all peo-
ples ... to establish the importance of its acceptance by all
nations as the fundamental principle underlying genuine in-
ternational amity.
One of the most important and comprehensive research proj-
—
I-
ects in the history of law in the United States, Notre Dame’s
Natural Law Institute attracts the most highly qualified dis-
cussion leaders in this and other nations.
A single recent session, for instance, was addressed by Dr.
Gordon Hall Gerould, member of the Mediaeval Academy of
America and professor emeritus of English, Princeton Uni-
A recent session of the Natural Law Institute at Notre Dame.
I:
r 1
*

versity; Dr. Maurice LeBel, head of the Greek Department,
Laval University, Quebec, a fellow of the Royal Society of
Canada and Chairman of the Canadian Humanities Research
Council; Dr. Ernest Levy, professor of law, University of
Washington, author of several books and articles on Natural
Law and formerly a professor of law in the Universities of
Berlin, Frankfort, Freiburg and Heidelberg; Dr. Heinrich A.
Rommen, professor of political science, College of St. Thomas,
St. Paul, Minn., and author of The Natural Law and The
State and Catholic Thought, and U. S. Judge Robert N. Wilkin
of the Northern District of Ohio, former member of the Ohio
Supreme Court and author of The Spirit of the Legal Profession
and The Eternal Lawyer.

Make Fair Play
an Obsession!
— Knufe Rockne
Notre Dame believes that young men should strengthen and
nurture their bodies as well as their souls. Nothing, in fact, is
* more basic to the Notre Dame philosophy of education than
the training of “the whole man.”
Football is not overemphasized at Notre Dame. It is a sport
—emphasized in the American scheme of things generally—
which Notre Dame’s young men have pursued with a measure
of success which they are taught to seek in every field of endeavor.
It would be a rare undergraduate, to be sure, who didn’t
profess pride in the tradition of Knute Rockne, the shy but
fiery, timid but dynamic Norwegian immigrant who worked
hard after high school to pay for his Notre Dame education ...
who was graduated magna cum laude in 1914 and then stayed
on as a chemistry instructor and assistant football coach . . .
" and who became athletic director and head football coach in
1918 and led his teams to 105 victories, 12 defeats and five
ties. It would be a rare undergraduate who couldn’t tell you
that Notre Dame had won national football championships in
1924, 1929, 1930, 1943, 1946 and 1947.
But, since 1887, football at Notre Dame has been no end
in itself. It is only one of a score of means by which every
Notre Dame boy’s spiritual and academic training is comple-
mented by physical training. (Revenue from football, by the
way—about 8% of the University’s total—is just enough to
defray the cost of its other varsity and intramural sports
v programs and its financial assistance to deserving students.)
The gymnasium, built in 1899, capacity 4,200.
The Rockne Memorial's large modern swimming pool.
BASEBALL
SOFTBALL
TENNIS
9
t
I
I
I
V
b
7
*
“Make Fair Play an Obsession”— (continued)
In a very real sense, it is even more appropriate that
Notre Dame’s memorial to Knute Rockne should house
modern facilities for swimming, handball, wrestling, gym-
nastics, social events and study than if it had taken the
form of a football stadium. For all those things, in the
aggregate, play a greater role than football in accomplish-
ing the ends to which football is but a single partial means.
What the late Father Charles O’Donnell once said of
Rockne as a man is equally applicable to Notre Dame as
an institution: he “made use of all the machinery and the
legitimate methods of modern activity to be essentially
not ‘modern’ at all; to be quite elementarily human and
Christian.”... What Rockne said to his teams is still heard
by all Notre Dame men: “make fair play an obsession!”
... The recent words of a prominent Midwestern priest sum
up one of the University’s deep convictions: “Notre Dame is
not a great University because it has a great football team;
it has a great football team because it is a great University! ”
h
i
t
I 4
p1
1
}
Leadership Begets Leadership
Important steps in the broadening of Notre Danie’s ef-
forts to train young men for moral, responsible leadership
j in business, industry and society were taken in 1946 and
,	1948, with establishment of an Advisory Council for Sci-
ence and Engineering and an Advisory Council for the
• College of Commerce.
The Councils have been notably successful in bringing
men of achievement into closer association with the work of
. the University and with its undergraduates personally. Top
1 business, industrial and engineering leaders have accepted
a real, working share in the training of Notre Dame men.
Council members have enlarged the relationship between
the University and business and industry; counselled with
the University as to the merits of existing and future re-
search in economics, business techniques, engineering and
science; helped to obtain certain research grants; helped to
bring exceptional lecturers to the campus; supervised or-
ganization of conferences beneficial to management and
labor; assisted graduates in finding valuable employment,
and many have been most generous in their financial gifts
to the University as well.
Advisory Council for Science and Engineering
Britton I. Budd, President,
Public Service Co. of Northern Illinois,
Chicago.
W. S. Calcott, Assistant Chemical Dir.,
E. I. DuPont de Nemours & Co., Inc.,
Wilmington, Del.
Marvin E. Coyle, Executive Vice President,
General Motors Corp., Detroit.
Francis J. Curtis, Vice President,
Monsanto Chemical Co., St. Louis.
James C. Daley, President,
Jefferson Electric Co., Bellwood, Ill.
Bradley Dewey, President,
Dewey and Almy Chemical Co.,
Cambridge, Mass.
Richard E. Dougherty, Vice President,
New York Central Railroad,
New York.
William Feeley, President,
Great Lakes Dredge & Dock Co., Chicago.
Frank M. Folsom, President,
Radio Corporation of America, Camden, N.J.
William H. Harrison, President,
International Telephone & Telegraph Co.,
New York.
E. C. Kleiderer, Assistant Executive Dir.,
Research Control, Eli Lilly & Co.,
Indianapolis.
Edgar Kobak
Business Consultant, New York.
Thomas W. Pangborn, President,
Pangborn Corp., Hagerstown, Md.
Peter C. Reilly, President,
Reilly Tar and Chemical Corp., Indianapolis.
Arthur J. Schmitt, President,
American Phenolic Corp., Cicero, Ill.
Oliver Smalley, President,
Meehanite Metal Corp., New Rochelle, N.Y.
Earle C. Smith, Chief Metallurgist,
Republic Steel Corp., Cleveland.
Leland Stanford, Vice President,
Sinclair Refining Co., New York.
Harold S. Vance, President,
The Studebaker Corp., South Bend, Ind.
Advisory Council for the College of Commerce
Thomas E. Braniff, President,
Braniff International Airways, Dallas.
O. J. Caron, President,
Caron Spinning Co., Rochelle, III.
John A. Coleman, Partner,
Adler, Coleman and Co. (brokers), N.Y.
James E. Coston,
theatre properties executive, Chicago.
William R. Daley, President,
Otis and Co., Cleveland.
Noah Dietrich, Executive Vice President,
Hughes Tool Co., Houston.
Robert E. Dwyer, Vice President,
Anaconda Copper Mining Co., New York.
Lester W. Foley, President,
Foley Lumber Co., Jacksonville, Fla.
Kerwin H. Fulton, President,
Outdoor Advertising, Inc., New York.
Robert H. O’Brien, Secretary,
Paramount Pictures, Inc., New York.
James Gerity, Jr., President,
Gerity-Michigan Corp., Adrian, Mich.
Robert H. Gore, Publisher,
Daily News, and realtor, Ft. Lauderdale, Fla.
Willam Green, President,
American Federation of Labor,
Washington, D. C.
James M. Haggar, Chairman of the Board,
The Haggar Co., Dallas.
Robert L. Hamilton, President,
Dumore Co., Racine, Wis.
Daniel P. Higgins,
Eggers and Higgins, New York.
Charles R. Hook, Chairman of the Board,
Armco Steel Corp., Middletown, O.
Neil C. Hurley, President,
Independent Pneumatic Tool Co., Chicago.
John T. Kirby, Vice President,
W. R. Grace Co., New York.
Herbert A. Mendelson,
realtor, Los Angeles.
Philip Murray, President,
Congress of Industrial Organizations,
Washington, D.C.
John F. O’Shaughnessy,
oil and gas executive, Wichita.
Edward J. Quinn, Partner,
Murphy, Lanier and Quinn, Chicago.
Charles M. Reagan, Executive,
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures, New York.
William H. Regnery, President,
Western Shade Cloth Co., Chicago.
Peter C. Reilly, Jr., Vice President,
Reilly Tar & Chemical Corp., New York.
Judson S. Sayre, President,
Bendix Home Appliances, Inc.,
South Bend.
George W. Strake,
independent oil operator, Houston.
William K. Warren, President,
Warren Petroleum Corp., Tulsa.
Jack P. Whitaker, President,
Whitaker Cable Corp., North Kansas City.
John J. Reynolds,
realtor, New York.
The
laetare Medal
The highest American honor which can come to a
Catholic layman is to receive Notre Dame’s Laetare
Medal. . . “the American Golden Rose” ... “worn only
by men and women whose genius has ennobled the arts
and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the Church, and
..enriched the heritage of humanity.”
It has been awarded annually since 1883, the year in
which the idea first occurred to a Notre Dame professor,
James Edwards. In proposing it to Father Sorin, the
University’s founder, and to the Rev. Thomas E. Walsh,
C.S.C., then president, Professor Edwards said:“I think
Notre Dame should take the initiative in acknowledg-
ment of what is done by American Catholics for faith,
morals, education and good citizenship.”
This expression of gratitude for outstanding instances
of the kind of moral, responsible leadership for which the
University endeavors to train its undergraduates is the
"American counterpart of the Vatican’s Golden Rose,
awarded since the 11th Century for conspicuous Catho-
lic spirit and loyalty to the Holy See.
A recipient is chosen after three meetings of the Uni-
versity’s Committee of Award, comprised of the Presi-
dent, his Council and 10 faculty members. At the first
meeting, new names and names held over from the pre-
vious year are considered, and a vote taken to select
names for investigation and consideration. Results of
such investigation are considered at a second meeting,
and the list narrowed to three. Detailed, thorough and
v strictly confidential interviews with sources close to the
three candidates precede a third meeting, at which
results are further discussed and a final vote taken.
Recipients of the Laetare Medal
1883 John Gilmary Shea, historian.
1884 Patrick Charles Keeley, architect.
1885 Eliza Allen Starr, art critic.
1886 General John Newton, engineer.
1887 Edward Preuss, publicist.
1888 Patrick V. Hickey, founder and editor,
The Catholic Review.
1889 Anna Hanson Dorsey, novelist.
1890 William J. Onahan, organizer of the
American Catholic Congress.
1891 Daniel Dougherty, orator.
1892 Henry F. Brownson, philosopher and
author.
1893 Patrick Donohue, founder, The Boston
Pilot.
1894 Augustine Daly, dramatic producer.
1895 Mary A. Sadlier, novelist.
1896 Gen. William Starke Rosecrans,
soldier.
1897 Thomas Addis Emmett, physician.
1898 Timothy Edward Howard, jurist.
1899 Mary Gwendolin Caldwell,
philanthropist.
1900 John A. Creighton, philanthropist.
1901 William Bourke Cockran, orator.
1902 John Benjamin Murphy, surgeon.
1903 Charles Jerome Bonaparte, lawyer.
1904 Richard C. Kerens, diplomat.
1905 Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, philanthropist.
1906 Francis J. Quinlan, physician.
1907 Katherine Eleanor Conway,
journalist and author.
1908 James C. Monaghan, economist.
1909 Frances Tiernan (Christian Reid),
novelist.
1910 Maurice Francis Egan, author and
diplomat.
1911 Agnes Repplier, author.
1912 Thomas M. Mulry, philanthropist.
1913 Charles B. Herberman, editor in
chief, Catholic Encyclopedia.
1914 Edward Douglas White,
. Chief Justice, U. S. Supreme Court.
1915 Mary V. Merrick, philanthropist.
1916 James Joseph Walsh,
physician and author.
1917 William Shepherd Benson, Admiral
and Chief of Naval Operations.
1918 Joseph Scott, lawyer.
1919 George L. Duval, philanthropist.
1920 Lawrence Francis Flick, physician.
1921 Elizabeth Nourse, artist.
1922 Charles Patrick Neill, economist.
1923 Walter George Smith, lawyer.
1924 Charles D. Maginnis, architect.
1925 Albert Francis Zahm, scientist.
(See p. 22.)
1926 Edward Nash Hurley, business man.
1927 Margaret Anglin, actress.
1928 John Johnson Spaulding, lawyer.
1929 Alfred Emanuel Smith, statesman.
1930 Frederick Philip Kenkel, publicist.
1931 James J. Phelan, business man.
1932 Stephan J. Maher, physician.
1933 John McCormack, artist.
1934 Genevieve Garvan Brady,
philanthropist.
1935 Francis Hamilton Spearman, novelist.
1936 Richard Reid, lawyer and journalist.
1937 Jeremiah Denis M. Ford, scholar.
1938 Irvin William Abell, surgeon.
1939 Josephine VanDyke Brownson,
catechist.
1940 Gen. Hugh Aloysius Drum, soldier.
1941 William Thomas Walsh,
journalist and author.
1942 Helen Constance White,
journalist and author.
1943 Thomas Francis Woodlock, editor.
1944 Anne O’Hare McCormick, journalist.
1945 G. Howland Shaw, diplomat.
1946 Carlton J. H. Hayes, historian.
1947 William George Bruce, publisher.
1948 Frank C. Walker, business man,
lawyer and former U. S. Postmaster
General.
1949 Irene Dunne Griffin, actress.
The University of Notre Dame Administration
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. . .
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of
Academic Affairs
Rev. John J. Burke, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of
Business Affairs
Rev. Joseph A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of
Student Affairs
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President in Charge of
Public Relations
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., Assistant Director of Studies
Rev. James J. Leahy, C.S.C.,' Assistant to the Vice-President
in Charge of Student Affairs
. President
. Executive Vice-President
Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C., Registrar
Rev. Richard J. Grimm, C.S.C., Prefect of Religion
Rev. John J. Reddington, C.S.C., Purchasing Agent
Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.C., Supervisor of Maintenance
Brother Albinus Butler, C.S.C., Cashier
Mr. J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations
Mr. James E. Armstrong, Alumni Secretary
Mr. G. Edward Harwood, Director of Accounting
Mr. Raymond J. Donovan, Director of Department of Public
Information	*-
Mr. Edward J. Murray, Director of Student Accounts
The Associate Board of Lay Trustees
Mr. Ernest M. Morris, ’06, South Bend, Indiana . . . President
Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, St. Paul, Minnesota.........Vice-President
Mr. Thomas H. Beacom, Jr., ’20, Chicago, Illinois . . . Treasurer
Mr. William J. Broderick, Notre Dame, Indiana .... Assistant Treasurer
Mr. Byron V. Kanaley, ’04, Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Terence B. Cosgrove, ’06,
Los Angeles, Calif.
Mr. Walter J. Duncan, ’12, LaSalle, Ill.
Mr. Joseph A. LaFortune, T6, Tulsa, Okla.
Mr. JohnP. Murphy, ’12, Cleveland, Ohio
Mr. John C. Tully, ’ll, LaGrange, Ill.
Mr. Frank C. Walker, ’09, New York, N. Y.
Mr. Bernard J. Voll, T7, South Bend, Ind.
Mr. Joseph M. Byrne, ’15, Newark, N. J.
Mr. Timothy P. Galvin, ’16, Hammond,
Ind.
Mr. C. Roy McCanna, Burlington, Wis.
Mr. Edward J. Doyle, Chicago, Ill.
Mr. Charles Fisher, Detroit, Mich.
Hon. Joseph P. Kennedy, New York, N. Y.
Dr. Constantine E. McGuire, Washington,
D. C.
Mr. John Moody, New York, N. Y.
Mr. George W. Strake, Houston, Texas
Mr. Peter C. Reilly, Indianapolis, Ind.
Mr. Charles F. Williams, Cincinnati, Ohio
{The Provincial, President, Executive Vice-President and Business Manager of the University are ex officio members of the Board)
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., ’23 . . . President of the University and Director of the Foundation
Foundation State and Foreign Governors
| Alabama: Raymond E. Faherty, ’24
I Arizona: William P. Mahoney, ’39
j Arkansas: Matthew H. Rothert, ’24
[ California: Thomas R. Ashe, ’31
! Colorado: Robert A. Dick, ’29
Connecticut: John T. Cullinan, ’28
Delaware: M. Harry Miller, TO
District of Columbia: Leo F. Mullin, ’ll
Florida: Lester W. Foley, ’24
• Georgia: Michael F. Wiedl, ’34
t Idaho: Thomas J. Jones, Jr., ’29
' Illinois: John E. Cassidy, T7
Indiana: J. Arthur Haley, ’26
„ Iowa: Henry C. Wurzer, ’25
. Kansas: Daniel J. Welchons, ’30
Kentucky: Frank B. Bloemer, ’22
- Louisiana: Arthur R. Carmody, T5
Maine: John U. Riley, T7
4 Maryland: Dr. Roy O. Scholz, ’35
4 Massachusetts: John F. Saunders, ’31
M Michigan: John E. Moore, ’ll
* Co-Govemor: Raymond J. Kelly, Sr., T5
„ Minnesota: Dr. John M. Culligan, T5
Mississippi: Lawrence H. Hennessy, ’27
Missouri: Joseph B. McGlynn, T2
Montana: Dr. Richard C. Monahan, ’98
Nebraska: Gerald J. McGinley, ’26
Nevada: E. P. Carville, ’09
New Hampshire: Maxime Gauthier, ’29
New Jersey: Raymond A. Geiger, ’32
New Mexico: Anton R. Hebenstreit, ’ll
New York: E. A. Berkery, ’27
North Carolina: Edward J. Koontz, ’32
North Dakota: William L. Neff, ’29
Ohio: Hugh M. O’Neill, T7
Oklahoma: Joseph A. Moran, ’32
Oregon: William C. Schmitt, TO
Pennsylvania: John F. McMahon, ’28
Rhode Island: John F. McKiernan, ’34
South Carolina: John L. Joyce, ’41
South Dakota: T. C. Kasper, ’21
Tennessee: Galvin Hudson, T5
Texas: James P. Swift, ’24
Utah: Philip J. Purcell, ’35
Vermont: Edward G. McClallen, ’31 -
Virginia: Anselm D. Miller, ’25
Washington: Emmett G. Lenihan, T7
West Virginia: Arthur P. Hudson, ’95
Wisconsin: Robert L. Hamilton, ’34
Wyoming: Thomas G. Kassis, ’31
Argentina and Uruguay: Charles H.
Litty, ’34
Bolivia: Harry E. Kennedy, ’31
Brazil: Arthur L. Denchfield, Jr., ’29
Canada: Frank J. Shaughnessy, ’06
Canal Zone: Joseph H. Harrington, ’39
Colombia: Luis C. Bustamente, ’22
Cuba: C. C. Fitzgerald, ’94
Peru: John J. Kinsella, ’34
Puerto Rico: Paul F. McManus, ’34
Territory of Hawaii: Thomas W.
Flynn, ’35
Executive Vice-Chairman: James E.
Armstrong, ’25	‘
Legal Counsel: Clarence E. Manion, ’22
Staff Project Director: John N.
Cackley, Jr., ’37
Staff Statistician: Herman A. Zitt, ’48
The Board of Directors of the Alumni Association
Edward J. Beckman, ’16, Plandome, N. Y.
Joseph M. Boland, ’27, South Bend, Ind.
Rev. Vincent P. Brennan, ’32, Pittsburgh, Pa.
Francis Wallace, ’23, Bellaire, Ohio.........
Harry G. Hogan, ’04, Fort Wayne, Indiana. .
Louis F. Buckley, ’28, Chicago, Illinois. . . .
Arthur D. Cronin, Jr., ’37, Detroit, Michigan .
James E. Armstrong, ’25, South Bend, Indiana
William R. Dooley, ’26, South Bend, Indiana
President
Honorary President
First Vice-President
Second Vice-President
Secretary
Assistant Secretary
John J. Elder, ’30, Cleveland, Ohio
William B. Jones, ’28, Washington, D. C.
Paul R. Mallon, ’23, Washington, D. C.
Robert C. Scoggins, ’24, Houston, Texas
William J. Sherry, ’21, Tulsa, Oklahoma
Leo B. Ward, ’20, Los Angeles, Calif.


©otrc ©amt
... a story which can’t be told
"Z wish I could tell you the story of Notre Dame,” said one of her former presidents, the late
Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C., "but I can’t, nor can any other man ...no one knows it all.”
It’s too bad it can’t be told. The real story of the real Notre Dame would make
much more exciting reading than football games.
It would be the story of more than a century of struggle against mighty odds . . .
a great University’s struggle against fire, plague and poverty for its very life . . . struggle
against decadent but sometimes stylish ideologies . . . struggle for the fuller and richer
lives of American boys . . . struggle for the strengthening and safeguarding of American
culture and the American republic itself . . . struggle for all that makes life dearest
to all Americans.
It would be a story which might well begin and conclude in Father O’Donnell’s
own words: "modern in the opportunities she affords, but as old as Christendom in
her insistence upon the education of the whole man, Notre Dame teaches men not only
HOW TO MAKE A LIVING, BUT HOW TO LIVE!”
This is the theme, the common denominator, of all Notre Dame training. It is
what Pope Pius XI meant when he defined "the subject of Christian education” as "man
whole and entire, soul united to body in unity of nature, with all his faculties,
natural and supernatural, such as right reason and revelation show him to be.” It is what
Cardinal Newman meant when, in his idea of a university, he said: "I wish the intel-
lect to range with the utmost freedom and religion to enjoy an equal freedom . . . that they
should be found in one and the same place, and exemplified in the same person.”
Notre Dame is one of relatively few universities still insisting upon the indissolu-
bility of leadership, responsibility and moral principle—still concerned not only with
training good doctors and lawyers, but even more with training good men who are also
good doctors and lawyers. Notre Dame trains all of "the Notre Dame man”... to make a
life as well as a living ... in principles underlying facts ... to know responsibilities as
well as rights ... to understand men as well as forces, and men as well as man . . . to
preserve in himself, and then to disseminate, our Christian culture.. .to strengthen
his will as well as his intellect... and, in humble constancy, to seek wisdom ... mindful
always that "knowledge of God is the beginning of wisdom.”
Prepared by • The University of Notre Dame Foundation • Notre Dame, Indiana