■9
Notre Dame
/l/ie tytnlv&iAifu ,c£vAMie -
HEART n	CAHCEH
Di$EAS£
TuBERculosis
atomic energy Rh FACTor JMk
w
SYNTHETIC RUBBER
MALARIA
PLASTICS
Dice, Stud Poker and Math
Joseph M. Dukert....................3
Everything Under the SUN
Harold A. Williams..................6
President’s Page
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of
Notre Dame..........................8
Gift: $1,000,000 .......................9
A Symposium on Soviet Russia . . . 10
The Marriage Institute
Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C. . . 12
Method and Money
Enroll at Notre'Dame
(Seventh" in a Series).............14
Supersonic Speedway
Vincent Goddard....................16
Sports for All Irishmen
Ralph H. Wright....................18
(Young) Men Working
Lawrence Flaherty..................22
The Sherman Collection
Thomas M: McAllister ..... 25
a
Progress Chart ........................27
half-million dollars for Fund in 1949 . . . gifts
still being accepted from loyal alumni and other
interested friends . . . costs $1,750,000 . . .

VOL. 3 • NO. 2


The University of Notre Dame
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department-of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) • Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Math faculty meets informally with graduate students every Friday afternoon to talk over prob-
lems of teaching and research. Above, Dr. Ky Fan uses a convenient blackboard to demon-
strate his point in a discussion with Dr. Richard Otter (seated) and Dr. Joseph LaSalle.
Dice, Stud Poker and Math
Curriculum in Department of Mathematics Presents
Diversified Trends in Classroom Study
“TEN of hearts, deuce of clubs, seven
x of hearts, and a big ace of dia-
monds ...”
“Check!”
Maybe you’re wondering what a con-
versation like that has to do with
studies in a University. Well, it fits in
a lot better than you might think, be-
cause it isn’t a stud poker game . . .
it might be the conversation of two
Notre Dame students working on an
ordinary nightly assignment.
Cards and dice aren’t usually thought
of as school supplies; but they’re re-
quired materials for one freshman
mathematics course at the University.
Now, don’t get the idea that the
local figure-wizards are being trained
for a mass raid on the casinos at Monte
Carlo, or that they use a text book
like Profitable Poker, by Hoyle. The
dice and cards are just a simple means
of bringing what a mathematician calls
“statistics and probabilities” problems
By Joseph M. Dukert
down to earth. And of course no gam-
bling is involved; the students simply
figure out the frequency with which cer-
tain combinations of numbers and suits
appear. Then they go on to apply this
practice to more conventional math
problems.
The whole idea of presenting ele-
mentary courses in a way that will
keep student interest at a peak is an
especially important one with the De-
partment of Mathematics, since its
classes must appeal to a greater variety
of student interests than any other de-
partment in the University. Arts and
Letters men, Commerce students, En-
gineers, and a whole raft of assorted
Science majors enroll in math courses
at some time or another during their
stay at Notre Dame. Some whisk
through two semesters just to fulfill
college requirements; others spend the
best part of four years studying the
complex formulas and equations that
fascinate the mathematician and mys-
tify the average layman.
But today mathematics is playing an
increasingly important role in a num-
ber of fields, and the department has a
responsibility of service to almost every
branch of the University.
“That’s why we a-e constantly trying
to revise our courses, raise our stand-
ards, and improve our techniques,” says
Dr. Arnold Ross, head of the depart-
ment and a noted researcher in his
own right. “We are of course intensely
interested in our own math majors.
We help them as much as we can by
individual attention, educational experi-
ments, and a closely-knit, logical course
of study.
“But nowadays everybody needs
some mathematics. Economists chart
graphs, sociologists look for relation-
ships between the statistics of crime
and poverty, businessmen are familiar
with financial cycles. Anybody who
Vol. 3 • No. 2
3
reads a daily newspaper is bombarded
on all sides by ‘mathematical proof’ of
a thousand and one things.
“Here in the Department of Mathe-
matics, we aren’t trying to invade the
field of applied mathematics, in any spe-
cialized subject- We would just like to
make it easier for the student to grasp
those applications later, by giving him
a strong early foundation in mathe-
matical theory.”
Mathematics 28 — the course that
uses an ordinary gin rummy deck and a
pair of spotted cubes to make home-
work an unusual pleasure — is a good
example of this idea. It isn’t a subject
for math majors . . . about half of its
students are using it as their frosh
science requirement in Commerce or
AB. But instead of being pushed
through advanced geometry, trigonom-
etry, and a lot of other topics that
have always been considered good “cul-
ture subjects,” they learn the funda-
mentals of useful statistics.
The whole program in simple sta-
tistics is under the direction of Dr.
Richard Otter, who meets with his
graduate assistants each week to dis-
cuss the questions that arise in class,
and to suggest means of expressing
difficult concepts in concrete examples.
According to Dr. Otter, who partici-
pated in similar teaching experiments
afr Princeton University before he came
to Notre Dame in 1947, the students
have shown enthusiastic reaction to
the new methods.
“Almost immediately they become ab-
sorbed in the novelty of our assign-
ments; and later they begin to realize
the full implications of statistical diag-
nosis,” he says.
“In our treatment of probabilities
they deal with the number of times a
coin will turn up ‘heads’ or ‘tails’ in
100 flippings. But they can use the
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Univer-
sity o£ Notre Dame, at Notre Dame,
Indiana. Entered as second-class
matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office
of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the
Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing
Editor.
Contributors' views do not necessar-
ily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in
this magazine should be addressed
to the Editor.
Vol. 3 No. 2 Spring, T950
same principle to decide whether a
newspaper’s ‘spot survey’ poll is ac-
curate within a reasonable margin of
error. The freshman math course has
ceased to be a dead requirement for
them and has become instead a valuable
stepping stone in their liberal educa-
tion.”
But despite the fact that mathe-
matics has had to tailor many of its
courses to suit the needs of other de-
partments, its prime purpose is to give
Notre Dame math majors the best
possible training in their chosen field.
They have succeeded here also, and
much of the credit in this respect is
due to Dr. Ross himself. Since 1946,
with the advice and help of the entire
math faculty, he has established a
whole new curriculum. Today, its
standards of achievement place Notre
Dame among the outstanding universi-
New math teaching methods are argued by graduate students
in a free-for-all gabfest.
ties in the country for a mathematics
education.
“Our aim is simply this,” says Dr.
Ross. “If a firm hires one of our
graduates to fill a certain position, we
want that man to be so trained that
his new employer will want to hire
another Notre Dame mathematician
when the next vacancy occurs.”
In line with this ideal, the whole
study program has been re-designed and
intensified during the past four years,
working down from the senior courses
to the freshman year. Subjects which
used to be required of first year grad
students are now taught to seniors.
Former junior subjects are being
changed to regular sophomore courses.
The links between various classes have
been made more clear, both to stu-
dents and faculty.
One course in “quality control,” of
special importance to industrial engi-
neers, has gained such recognition that
a group of Air Force inspectors from
the surrounding area recently re-
quested Professor Paul Nastucoff to
teach a special night class in it, so that
they could study the material after
they had finished their daily duties.
Another activity in which the depart-
ment has been of great help to groups
beyond the regular' student body is the
summer session for mathematics teach-
ers. Formalized this year for the first
time as the “Mathematics Teacher
Training Institute,” this program has
been helping to train math instructors
from high schools and colleges since
the summer of 1947.
Annually it attracts teachers, mostly
religious, from all over the United
States. Teaching techniques are not
stressed as such, although the visiting
teachers often adapt various instruc-
tional aids used in the summer courses
to their own use.
Despite the many advances which Dr.
Ross and his associates have made, the
department’s progress has been limited
somewhat by lack of more adequate
facilities. Many of these gaps in space
and equipment cannot be filled until
the new Science Building is erected.
For instance, the 25 graduate stu-
dents who now assist the regular fac-
ulty in teaching duties are forced to
share one room, equipped with only six
desks in what is practically a corridor.
In the new building they will be pro-
vided with semi-private work rooms,
where they will be able to carry on
research studies and prepare teaching
programs. By limiting each room to
two or three instructors, Dr. Ross ex-
plains, it will make it easier for their
students to meet them for important
individual assistance and advice.
Another' important feature of the
new Science Building will be more
room for the rapidly expanding Science
Library. Since 1946, necessary acquisi-
4
Notre Dame
tions have doubled the number of books
and periodicals kept there for student
and faculty reference. But all of the
shelves in the present one-room library
have been filled; and a recently pur-
chased series of mathematics books —
worth about $1400 — is now being
“stored” on a table in another room.
“These new books are essential for
our work,” Dr. Boss points out. “Sci-
entific texts were very hard to obtain
during the war, so when I came here
our library facilities were quite inade-
quate. It has taken a lot of detective
work to find some of the publications
which we have bought since then. We
finally tracked down one set of journals
in Palestine; and we’ve just ordered
some others from Holland.”
The new quarters for the mathe-
matics department will also boast two
modern laboratories — one for statistics
study and one for numerical methods
work. Here the students will get prac-
tice in using various types of simple
and complex calculating machines.
In a mathematics workshop to be set
up in the new structure, students will
have the necessary tools to produce
models of geometric figures for use in
classroom exhibits. A mathematics mu-
seum is planned too.
But, in the meantime, study and re-
search is continuing at a rapid pace in
the department’s old quarters. In ex-
plaining the recent scientific achieve-
ments by various members of the fac-
ulty, Dr. Ross divides the subject into
three categories — mathematics of to-
day, mathematics of tomorrow, and
mathematics of the future.
“Mathematics of today” is not really
mathematical research at all; it is
simply the application of previous dis-
coveries to present-day industry and
science. This type of work is done pri-
marily by the Departments of Physics
and Chemistry and the College of En-
gineering.
But significant studies are being
made in the department on some sub-
jects that will find important applica-
tion in the near future (Dr. Ross calls
these “mathematics of tomorrow”), and
on others that are now strictly theoret-
ical but may find practical use twenty,
thirty, or even fifty years from now
(“mathematics of the future”).
According to Dr. Ross, the im-
portance of this last type of mathe-
matical work is too often overlooked.
“Fundamental research is necessary,”
he says, “because it is the only avenue
in which really startling originality is
possible. And it may well have prac-
tical value later on. Einstein’s theory
of relativity, which was called inter-
esting but useless when it appeared,
became ‘mathematics of today’ when the
first atomic bomb was exploded.”
Among the Notre Dame research
projects which may have profound ef-
fects on other fields in the near future
are those of Dr. Joseph LaSalle and
Dr. Richard Otter. Both are highly
technical in their explanations and
methods; but one doesn’t have to be a
mathematician to see their possibilities
for application.
Dr. LaSalle’s research is in a field
with the frightening name of “non-
linear differential equations.” You see,
mathematicians used to think that most
simple movements, like the swing of a
pendulum, could be measured by simple,
regular proportions (expressed by a
straight line on a graph). But recently
they discovered that many operations,
especially in complicated machinery,
could only be understood by a scien-
tific headache called non-linear mathe-
matics.
In the long run, though, the newer
methods will make the machinery itself
simpler. When Dr. LaSalle’s research
is completed, for instance, it may help
to make industrial safety-control ma-
chinery cheaper. In wartime, it could
be used to direct the fire of anti-air-
craft guns. At present, Dr. LaSalle
says, the Russians are far more ad-
vanced than this country’s scientists in
the study of these problems, so the
work may eventually play a vital role
in the realm of national defense.
Dr. Otter’s objectives are even easier
for a non-mathematician to understand,
but the name is still a jawbreaker. His
Unorthodox class assignment in elementary mathematics is disclosed to freshman
Marion Smoker (r) and Stephen J. Hauser, a teaching fellow, by Dr. Otter.
subject mattei' is called “the theory of
the multiplicative process.” Boiled down
to five-cent words, here’s what that
means:
Suppose a man has two sons. One
son has two children—both boys; while
the other becomes the beaming papa of
a boy and a girl. That adds up to a
total of three grandsons, one of whom
remains a bachelor. The others have
two male offspring each. How long will
it take for the family name to die out?
And how many persons will the total
family tree include eventually?
The “odds” here have to be deter-
mined by experiments and observation.
But the actual “probability” of a man
having two, three, or no sons at all,
doesn’t matter much in Dr. Otter’s
work. For he has evolved a series of
formulas which can be applied to any
series like this, simply by substituting
(Continued on Page 24)
The author is a junior in the Col-
lege of Arts and Letters and is major-
ing in Journalism. He will graduate in
June, 1951, and present plans call for
a newspaper job. Last summer Mr.
Dukert was on the copy desk of the
Baltimore News-Post, and helped to
organize the publication of three Catho-
lic parish newspapers in Baltimore. He
did general reporting for five Baltimore
weeklies. While at Notre Dame, Mr.
Dukert has been a member of the
Scholastic staff and currently is em-
ployed as a student assistant in the
Department of Public Information.
Vol. 3
No. 2
5
everything
phone numbers of every French cabinet
member (most of the correspondents
have a hard time remembering the
names), and the inside story of every
Balkan coup d’etat since 1919.
under the
SUN
Larry once used an airplane to cover
the news. At the present he gets around
with two automobiles and a motorcycle.
The automobiles are equipped with com-
passes because Larry has no faith in
European road signs. The report that
he has installed radar in his automobiles
is not true. As Larry said, “I’m just
thinking about it.”
ND Grad Covers Europe for Baltimore Sun
By IIAROLB A. WILLIAMS
A FOREIGN correspondent, I think,
has the best job in the newspaper
business because:
1.	He is usually at least several
thousand miles from the home office.* As
any reporter who is within hailing dis-
tance of the city desk will tell you, this
is simply wonderful.
2.	He has a liberal expense account.
Such items as “snowshoes for Alps
story, $17.84” and “rental camel for
pyramid story, $361.23” are seldom
questioned.**
3.	His copy, while not inviolable, is
treated with respect and seldom changed
or butchered. This, I think, is because
copy readers know what the cable
charges are. They can’t bring them-
selves to blue pencil a word that cost
six and a half cents to transmit.
4.	He has the opportunity to meet
such interesting people: channel swim-
mers, baccarat bankers, exiled royalty,
chancellors, prime ministers, foreign
ministers and Larry Rue, correspondent
of the Chicago Tribune.
Larry is the dean of the European cor-
respondents. As such he deserves a few
words. Larry knows everyone of im-
portance in Europe, and, even more im-
portant, they all know him. There are
* Of course, the home office can still reach you
hy cable. They send two types. Example of type
"a” which generally arrives during a revolution,
flood, earthquake or gin rummy game: “MAKING
INVENTORY STOP SEND SOONEST TYPE-
WRITER SERIAL NUMBER.” Example of type
“b” which always arrives between 2 and 4 A.M.,
“WANT IMMEDIATELY REACTIONS HIGH-
EST OFFICIALS RE LATER COMMUNIST
MOVE.” High commissioners, chancellors, poten-
tates, like anyone else awakened in the middle of
the night, aren’t talkative at 3 or 4 A.M. What
they do say can’t he printed in a family news-
paper.
** When a correspondent in Egypt included in
his expense account the item, “samel rental, $361.-
23” his office replied, “THINK THIS IS HIGH
STRONGLY SUGGEST OTHER TRANSPORTA-
TION.” His next expense statement included the
item, "Purchase of one camel, $1,000.” The office
sent an urgent message, “SELL CAMEL IMME-
DIATELY.” His next expense account carried the
notation, “Camel died. Rental of one camel, $340.”
enough stories about Larry to fill a book,
in fact, the stories have helped to fill a
number of books. Bob Casey’s book,
“Such Interesting People”, is an ex-
ample.
This is one of the latest Rue stories:
When correspondents were sitting in the
press gallery at Bonn, waiting for the
opening of the new government, some-
one looked around and noticed that Rue
wasn’t present. A colleague explained,
“Larry hasn’t yet recognized the Federal
Republic of Germany”.
Larry offhand can tell you the names
of the headwaiters in every good restaur-
ant in western Europe, the unlisted tele-
West German governmental offices in Bonn.
To be a bit more serious, the job of
foreign correspondent is, as even the
most cynical of them will admit, right
at the top of the list.
Like most jobs it has its monotony,
routine, excitement, joys and headaches.
On some days there is little to do but
attend to such chores as getting permits,
travel orders, visas or gasoline coupons.
On other days there is enough work to
keep the correspondents busy for eight-
een or twenty hours. Like the reporter
in the States, the foreign correspondent
is not working a major story every day.
On most days it is the routine of making
the rounds of sources, checking tips and
reports, digging out the news.
Most of the foreign correspondents to-
day are young men, too serious about
their jobs for much play. Occasionally
one finds a newspaperman of the old
school who likes to ride bicycles down the
red-carpeted stairs of the Quai D’Orsay
or indulge in other stunts. They are the
exception. The demands of the readers,
6 Notre Dame
and the editors, for thorough, intelli-
gent coverage of the complex, often fast-
breaking foreign news leaves little time
for high-jinks. Of course another factor,
and not too incidental a factor, is the
appearance in the last year of the cor-
respondents’ wives and families on the
scene. The wife has “normalized” the
life of a correspondent. After a hard
day at the office or in the press gallery
the foreign correspondent goes home to
his wife and children. After dinner he
puts on his slippers and picks up a copy
of the Saturday Evening Post. The only
difference here is that the magazine is a
month old.
Western Germany is regarded by edi-
tors as one of the best news centers in
Europe. There are at least six primary
news stories: the development of the
West German Government at Bonn, the
work of the Allied High Commission
(consisting of the high commissioners
of the United States, the United King-
dom and France, the occupying powers),
Berlin (one of the two windows in the
iron curtain; the other, of course, is
Vienna), the Soviet dominated east Ger-
man government in Berlin, the Ruhr,
and the general recovery of Germany.
The Berlin airlift, until it ended in Octo-
ber, was a tremendous story.
In addition to these primary news
sources the woods are full of page one
feature stories. The Oberammergau
Passion Play is an example.
The most important news center in
Germany is Bonn. It is the hardest
story in Germany to cover adequately
and intelligently. The German Govern-
ment, just learning the principles of
democracy, has a form of press censor-
ship which funnels all important news
from the thirteen ministries through the
Government press office. Officials in
some ministries are not allowed to talk
to the press, either domestic oi' foreign.
In addition to this, there is the native
reluctance of the Beamte (German civil
servant) to discuss any of his work with
the press. Unlike America, it is not
posible to drop into an official’s office and
ask him “What’s cooking?”
Until the American press representa-
tives offered technical assistance and
equipment, it was extremely difficult to
file spot news stories at Bonn. In the
confused days before Parliament opened,
correspondents either telephoned their
stories to their bureau in Paris or Lon-
don or crossed their fingers and filed
them with the Deutsche Post, the
Government owned and operated com-
munications system which handles, in a
bureaucratic manner, everything from
local telephone calls to singing tele-
grams.
I still have nightmares about the first
stories I filed at Bonn. The night before
the opening of Parliament, I wrote two
stories, an advance on the opening and
a feature on the “Boomtown” aspects of
Bonn which up until then was a provin-
cial University town still somewhat ex-
cited because Beethoven had been born
there in 1770.
I was directed to file my stories at the
downtown post office because the press
office across from the Parliament build-
ing was not yet functioning. It was too
late to get a taxi—it was then 10 P. M.
—so my interpreter and I walked the
two or three kilometers into town. (The
Bundeshaus is on the edge of town and
at that time was partially surrounded
by bean patches.)
The post office was locked but after
banging and kicking on the door for
twenty minutes we finally got inside. It
was necessary to stand in a telephone
booth and shout through a slot, about the
size of a peephole in a speakeasy door,
to talk to the men on duty. It was a
warm night and my interpreter had
halitosis.
Mr. Williams (r) listens to the latest
rumors from Joseph Dinan, Associated
Press correspondent, while relaxing on
the steps of the French Foreign Office.
After examining my credentials au-
thorizing me to send messages collect,
the two officials, after a long, consulta-
tion, filled out numerous forms. One
form had to be done over because they
dropped some ink on it. The form fill-
ing took about forty minutes.
An hour later I stopped back at the
post office to see if the two stories had
been transmitted to Frankfurt, where
the messages are radioed to America.
The officials were still shuffling the
papers they had filled out.
I stayed there until 2:30 A. M. to
make sure that the stories were sent.
After they informed me that the stories
were on their way to Frankfurt, I tried
to check on their reception. It took about
thirty minutes to get the call through;
Frankfurt is almost 100 miles from
Bonn. Just as the operator said “Here’s
Frankfurt” an electrical storm broke
and so did the telephone wire. I found
out, about thirty six hours later, that
the two stories, totalling 2,000 words, did
not reach the Baltimore Sun until 5
A. M., too late for publication in the
morning paper.
It is almost axiomatic that whenever a
big story breaks transmision will be diffi-
cult because.of sun spots.
I filed-a long: story from Berlin on the
opening of the East German Govern-
ment and went to bed happy, not a sun
spot in sight. About 3 A. M. the Deutsche
Post telephoned my billet. “Did we get
you out of-bed?” asked a solicitous voice
in broken English. The voice mentioned
something about sun spots and asked
what I wanted to do. The alternative,
The author is now covering the Euro-
pean news front for the Baltimore
Sun — one of the nation’s key news-
papers. Mr. Williams graduated from
Notre Dame in 1938 with an A.B. de-
gree. During liis undergraduate years
on the campys, lie wrote for the Scho-
lastic, servieA as secretary of the senior
class, participated in freshman track
and logs employed on a student-fob
basis in the Alumni office. In World
War II, the .author achieved distinction
as a member of the U. S. Army’s en-
listed ranks. Before leaving this coun-
try last -summer, Mr. Williams was
editor of 'the (Baltimore) Sunday Sun
Magazine. He has been active in the
Notre Dfim’e Alumni Association and
until recently was City Chairman for
the Notre Dame Foundation in Balti-
more. A younger brother, Bob, crashed
every sports headline in the nation’s
newspapers last fall, when he quar-
terbacked Notre Dame’s national cham-
pionship football team and gained All-
America recognition.
it was. pointed out, was to send the story
to .London, by way of Paris, and have it
cabled from there. A pigeon would get
to Baltimore-sooner. I gave instructions
to pray that the sun spots would dis-
appear and to send the story as soon as
possible. It arrived in time for the final
edition.
Interpreters also give correspondents
gray hair. Some correspondents have
(Continued on Page 21)
Vol. 3 • No. 2
7
1949 Financial Report
Within the pages of this issue of
Notre Dame and of the Alumnus,
soon to come off the press — is a copy
of the Foundation Report on gifts made
to the University in 1949. The Report
is most heartening and I should like
to take advantage of the President’s
Page to thank you all once again for
your generosity in our regard. Notre
Dame’s greatest source of encourage-
ment today, her confident hopes for
tomorrow, lie in this persevering loy-
alty and devotion.
One of the most heartening aspects
of the Report — even apart from the
record number of contributors and the
unprecedented total of their contribu-
tions— is the fact that interest in and
support of our endeavors extended to
so many phases of the University’s
manifold operations. There were con-
tributions to the various undergraduate
departments and to graduate study and
research, to the Mediaeval Institute and
to the Laboratories of Bacteriology;
there were grants for scholarships and
fellowships, and gifts for student loan
funds, new buildings, and the vitally
important unrestricted endowment
fund.
This widespread interest is so heart-
ening because, while we had of neces-
sity to place special emphasis on the
desperately needed Science Building,
failure on the part of our alumni and
other friends to appreciate the urgency
of these other needs might conceivably
have compromised the University’s
over-all educational program.
Gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher
The largest single gift in 1949 rec-
ognized two of these needs in a very
marked way. Mrs. Fisher’s magnificent
donation of $1,000,000 in memory of
her late husband, Mr. Fred J. Fisher,
is reported elsewhere in this issue. Here
I should like only to observe that the
particular objects of Mrs. Fisher’s gen-
erosity have always been very special
features of Notre Dame’s system of
education: on-campus residence for stu-
dents, and the student aid program.
Her benefaction will strengthen these
features substantially.
New Science Building Gift
It is with genuine pleasure that I
announce that Mr. Frank J. Herlihy
of Chicago, President of the Herlihy
Mid-Continent Company, has personally
provided for the equipment for one of
the major laboratories in the forthcom-
ing new Science Building. The room
will be known as the William Herlihy
Laboratory of Nuclear Physics. This
Nuclear Physics Laboratory was do-
nated by Frank J. Herlihy in memory
of his father, William Herlihy. This
handsome act of generosity was made
possible through the good offices of Mr.
Britton I. Budd, Vice-Chairman of the
Advisory Council for Science and En-
gineering, and Notre Dame Foundation
committeeman in Chicago.
Mr. Herlihy is a nationally known
contractor with very wide experience
in engineering, construction and con-
tracting of public works, subways, rail-
roads and general building construction
of every kind. He was formerly En-
gineer in Charge of Outside Construc-
tion for the Chicago, Milwaukee, St.
Paul and Pacific Railroad.
Mr. Herlihy’s substantial help brings
nearer the day when construction will
start on this very important addition
to our much needed facilities for train-
ing young scientists, and I know it
will serve as an added and important
impetus to all who are engaged in the
difficult task of raising the necessary
funds.
A Word of Acknowledgment
I should like to take this opportunity
to thank representatives of radio and
press for the favorable publicity ac-
corded both the Soviet Symposium held
here at the University on Feb. 7-8, and
the Third Natural Law Institute, held
in the early part of December. In
particular do I wish to express the
University’s thanks to the South Bend
Tribune, the New York Times, America
and Time magazines, Mr. Arthur Krock,
the editorial writers of the Chicago
Tribune and the Washington Times-
Herald, the Columbia Broadcasting Sys-
tem, and South Bend’s stations WSBT
and WHOT.
* * *
Meanwhile, the less spectacular but
all-important daily chore of educating
the present generation of Notre Dame
men goes on in the various colleges and
departments of the University. In to-
day’s complex world of A-bombs and
H-bombs, of national and international
crises, of almost innumerable threats
to the moral order in public as well as
in private life, the education of to-
morrow’s leaders becomes a matter of
tremendous responsibility.
We here at Notre Dame shall never
be able adequately to thank you who
are helping us shoulder this responsi-
bility. But we shall ask God and His
Holy Mother’ — especially during the
approaching season of Easter and a
Triumphal Resurrection — to thank you
for us, and make us equal to the task
that is ours!
Director of The Foundation
President of The University
8
Notre Dame
GIFT: $1,000,000
Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, Widow of Lay Trustee, Donates One Million Dollars
For Student Residence Hall and Loan Fund
FpHE announcement by Rev. John J.
Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president, that
through the generosity of Mrs. Fred J.
Fisher, widow of the late Lay Trustee
Fred J. Fisher, the University of Notre
Dame will begin immediately plans for
a $750,000 student residence hall, and
the administration of a $250,000 loan
fund for students, is one of the most
significant in the history of benefactions
to the University.
Only two other donors—Peter C. Reilly
of Indianapolis, and the late Martin J.
Mrs. Fred J. Fisher
Gillen of Land O’Lakes, Wis., have been
as generous.
The history of Notre Dame benefac-
tions is much shorter than the history of
the University. In a report by the late
Albert R. Erskine in 1924, when he was
chairman of the newly created Board of
Lay Trustees of the University, he states
that it was not until 1916 that the Uni-
versity—then 74 years old—received its
first real benefaction, a gift of $5,000.
The present campus was expanded
rapidly between 1924 and World War II
to accommodate the rising enrollment
that numbered 3343 in 1940. Today’s
enrollment, in almost the same physical
B plant, numbers 4947. The need of new
residence halls even aside from the re-
placement problem, is evident, and the
significance of Mrs. Fisher’s provision
appreciated.
America is the land of opportunity if
young men and women would only
realize it, and take advantage of the
opportunity offered them, according to
Mrs. Fisher.
The widow of the founder of the
Fisher Body Co. in Detroit, Michigan,
provided the $250,000 of the $1,000,000
gift to “present an opportunity for the
young man who is willing to work” in
the form of a revolving student loan
fund. The dormitory will be known as
“The Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memor-
ial.”
Asked if the “opportunity philosophy,”
a unique project in modern education,
was a new idea, Mrs. Fisher replied:
“I believe everyone will agree, although
it is sometimes forgotten, that the
United States was founded as a land of
opportunity. Those who came to Amer-
ica in the early days were not benefited
by subsidies as they fought to develop
this nation; all they asked was an op-
portunity. That also was the philosophy
of my late and beloved husband, Fred J.
Fisher, who was a man who made the
most of his opportunities. Rather than
being a new idea, the philosophy under-
lying my gift to Notre Dame merely is
an attempt to return to the principles
upon which the United States was
founded.”
Mrs. Fisher observed that she has
visions of the revolving loan fund, estab-
lished at Notre Dame by her gift, in-
creasing steadily aftei’ the fund has
been in operation for several years. She
believes that students who are benefited
by the Notre Dame fund will, as they
repay their own loan to the University,
realize the opportunity provided them by
the fund and will further contribute to
the fund in order to provide the same
opportunity to a greater number of stu-
dents in the future.
Joseph P. Savage, Chicago attorney
for Mrs. Fisher, reiterated her belief in
the “opportunity loan fund” established
at Notre Dame.
“I can remember several times while
chatting with Mr. Fishei* about various
topics, he would say: ‘You know, Joe,
I believe the underlying ideals on which
America was founded have been almost
disregarded. During my life time, all
that I, and those men whom I know,
asked was a fair opportunity. The trend
now is becoming more and more toward
people expecting to receive something
for nothing. The sooner we return to
Mr. Fred J. Fisher
the principles of those who founded
America and provide more opportunities
and fewer subsidies, for our young
people, the better off they will be and
the country as a whole.’ ”
Mrs. Fisher summed up her gift by
saying that she “believes that the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, which was
founded and is administered by the Holy
Cross Fathers, bolstered by this phil-
osophy of opportunity, will receive many
worthwhile students who are willing to
work and who otherwise would be de-
prived of the Christian education pro-
vided by Notre Dame.”
Vol. 3
No. 2
9
A Symposium
Nation’s Experts on USSR Express Opinions
of Russia’s Background and Ideology
pORRESPONDENTS from the major
newspapers of the nation crowded the
University of Notre Dame campus, Feb-
ruary 7 and 8. That was nothing unusu-
al; Notre Dame has long been a major
source of news. What was unique was
the source of the news — a scholarly
symposium on Soviet Russia.
The world’s number one problem, So-
viet Russia, was the subject of a sym-
posium sponsored by Notre Dame’s Com-
mittee on International Relations. The
nation’s outstanding experts on Russia
convened on the Notre Dame campus to
present a comprehensive series of lec-
tures designed to cover the entire scope
of the problem. Acting as chairman for
the symposium was Rev. John J. Cav-
anaugh c.s.c., president of Notre Dame.
“The very existence of Soviet Russia
threatens the entire world with a catas-
trophe,” the first speaker, Doctor Wal-
demar Gurian, told the audience. Dr.
Gurian, Russian-born chairman of Notre
Dame’s Committee on International Rela-
tions, is the author of numerous schol-
arly articles and books on the Russian
problem.
The Rockefeller Foundation,
through a grant of $69,000 to the
University of Notre Dame for study
of international relations, partially
financed the symposium on Soviet
Russia. In accordance with the
terms set by the Rockefeller Foun-
dation, a Committee on International
Relations has been organized here,
to direct research in the interrela-
tions of religion, democracy and in-
ternational order. It will also devote
particular attention to the rise of
political religions in the twentieth
century. The symposium addresses
will soon be available in book form
from the University of Notre Dame
Press.
“Soviet expansionism and world revo-
lution have merged together,” Dr. Gu-
rian said. “The Soviet leaders believe
the world situation permits and favors
attempts to carry out expansionist poli-
cies, whereas from 1922 they concen-
trated first upon strengthening and
perfecting their internal totalitarian
system.
“Up to now they have tried to avoid
open war, though they do try to keep
the world in crisis and insecurity and to
exploit any possibility for advancement,”
he continued. “These changes and va-
rious policies correspond to the basic
features of the Soviet regime from the
beginning. The world revolution ap-
pears today as a feature of Soviet ex-
pansionism. The Soviet regime is too
powerful today to regard itself modest-
ly as a kind of first signal for world
revolutionary developments.”
Dr. Naum Jasny
Second speaker on the symposium was
Dr. Michael Karpovich, of Harvard Uni-
versity, who described the background of
thought control in Russia.
“Fundamentally, an all-embracing sys-
tem of thought control is inherent in the
very nature of a totalitarian state,” he
said. “It cannot recognize the autonomy
of culture; neither can it acknowledge
the existence of politically neutral
spheres of human activity. Everything
must be subordinated to the political
aims of the regime.
“Thus the recent purge in the field
of genetics, which came as a surprise
to many outside observers, is but a logi-
cal outcome of the fundamental premises
on which Soviet totalitarianism is based.
“The more vulnerable fields of intellec-
tual activity, such as social sciences and
philosophy, for instance, were affected
from the outset,” Dr. Karpovich said,
“while others could enjoy a kind of limit-
ed and precarious freedom until the ma-
chinery of control became finally estab-
lished and perfected. Today the process
seems to have reached its completion.”
Dr. Karpovich came to the United
States in 1917 with the provisional Rus-
sian delegation and for some time was
acting first secretary of the Russian em-
bassy in Washington.
Third speaker of the symposium was
Dr. Istvan D. Kertesz, a former diplomat
for Soviet satellite Hungary, now teach-
ing at Yale University. He outlined the
methods of Soviet penetration in Eastern
Europe.
“The Soviet pattern in Eastern Europe
has been, first, isolation from the west,
then political and economic integration
towards Moscow, and at the same time,
elimination of all other tendencies to-
ward integration.”
Freedom of movement is non-existent
behind the Iron Curtain, he said. “Es-
capes were made very difficult by drastic
methods in Eastern European states.”
Dr. Philip Mosely, staff specialist in
Columbia University’s Russian Institute
and a presidential adviser at many Big
Three conferences, told of the way in
which Russia has capitalized on national
conflicts in Eastern Europe.
Dr. Mosely ridiculed the Soviet claim
that Communism is the only system
which eliminates national conflicts. He
pointed out that the Soviet government
itself has liquidated several of its na-
tionality groups and destroyed their po-
litical existence.
National rivalries have been used by
Russia to strengthen its grip over satel-
lite states, he said. Documenting his
statement, Dr. Mosely told how support
of Yugoslav, Albanian and Bulgarian
claims to Greek territory served for
several years to bind these governments
10
Notre Dame
on Soviet Russia
Symposium speakers included: (standing, I to r) Drs. Naum Jasny and Stephen Kertesz, Rev. Francis Dvomik, Drs. Wal-
demar Gurian and Vladimir Petrov; and, (seated, I to r) Drs. Nicholas Timashe-ff, Michael Karpovich, Philip Mosely.
to Soviet support. He stated that, since
1944, Soviet leaders have used the dis-
pute over Macedonia to strengthen theii’
control over both Yugoslavia and Bul-
garia. The Soviet leaders did not invent
the nationality conflicts, he said, but they
have been prompt and ruthless in ex-
ploiting them.
Fifth speaker on the symposium was
JDr. Naum Jasny, now of Stanford Uni-
versity but once a statistician for the
Soviet government, who told the group
that the Soviet government is expending
more than 60 per cent of its income on
state investment and armed forces com-
pared to only 42 per cent a little more
than 10 years ago.
Dr. Jasny said that concentration of
financial resources in the hands of the
Soviet state is accelerated by a sales tax
on consumer goods amounting to more
than 50 per cent of retail prices.
"The taxes are so effective in keeping
down private consumption and concen-
trating financial resources in the hands
of the state that, in addition to their
main task of providing the large means
for new investment and the armed
forces, they permit lavish expenditures
on education and health services,” he
said.
“Although the industrial output of the
USSR has expanded much less than offi-
cially claimed,” he said, “the aim of
industrialization as such may be believ-
ed to have been reached.
“The Five Year plans were embarked
upon to transform the USSR from a pre-
dominantly agricultural nation into an
industrial country with terrific speed,”
he told the Notre Dame audience. “As
time passed, the elevating of the USSR
to a first-rate military power, inferioi'
to nobody, has become an even more
important aim.”
Dr. Vladimir Petrov, who spoke on So-
viet terrorism, is a man who knows his
subject first-hand. He was six years a
prisoner of the Soviet government in Si-
beria.
An internal revolution could never
break the hold of the Soviet government,
he said. “Russia’s citizens do not dare
fight against the Soviet system, despite
the fact that it is an object of hatred
by the entire population. The Soviet re-
gime bases its rule entirely on fear . . .
and the well-organized minority will re-
main in power until some outside force
can shake it.”
Dr. Petrov, who now teaches at Yale,
said that no one in the Soviet Union is
free from the fear of the ever present
secret police. Furthermore, he said, “the
secret police now has a constitutional
right to jail anyone without trial for a
term not exceeding five years solely on
mere suspicion of anti-Soviet activity.”
Dr. Petrov sees no indication that this
torture tactic will in any way change.
“Everything can be collectivized in a to-
talitarian state except the minds of
people. As long as this individualism
exists, there will always be differences
in opinion, which in a totalitarian state
means the necessity of terrorism to sup-
press the opposition.”
“Freedom of religion in Soviet Russia
is still just a hollow myth,” Dr. Nicholas
Timasheff, an exiled Russian sociologist,
told the audience. Dr. Timasheff, now a
member of the faculty at Fordham Uni-
versity, discounted the importance of re-
(Continued on Page 21)
Vol. 3 • No. 2
A MAN who has achieved nation-wide
fame in the past several years was
introduced as the opening speaker of the
first Marriage Institute—and the chair-
man 1’emarked that he thought an intro-
duction was necessary! Unquestionably,
everyone in the audience at least
had a “reading acquaintance” with this
individual since there have been reams
of copy written about him in practically
every daily newspaper throughout the
entire country.
However, until tonight, the more than
200 students who had voluntarily signed
up for the Marriage Institute series had
known Frank Leahy only as a football
coach and nothing else. Now they were
introduced to “another” Frank Leahy—
Leahy the husband and father of a fami-
ly. To this particular group, there was
a great importance attached to what
Frank Leahy was about to tell them—of
much more concern than the intricacies
of T-formation football.
Before elaborating on Coach Leahy’s
well-chosen words, it might be appropri-
ate to tell briefly the background of
the Marriage Institute. Notre Dame
offered the Institute for the first time
during the 1949 academic year because
it firmly believes that learning how to
live to the full as a husband and a
father of a family is a very important
part of education today.
Recently in one of our universities a
new course was offered entitled “Con-
sumer Economics.” Its purpose was to
instruct students on how young married
couples can get off to a sound financial
start. This course, undoubtedly, did some
good but it did not go far enough. It
could not fulfill all the needs of the new-
ly married. Money is an important thing
in life. And, as the program of the In-
stitute (see next page) indicates there
12 Notre Dame
Unique Lecture Series Offered
to Notre Dame Students
By REV. ROBERT J. EOCHNER, C. S. C.
are at least eight or nine aspects of mar-
riage that need to be considered if we
are to live a well-rounded and complete
married life.
Each topic on the agenda was present-
ed by an expert, and almost half of the
speakers were lay persons while the rest
were priests. Wherever possible, a lay-
man was used on the panel because mar-
riage is the layman’s great sacrament.
The student and his interests were the
primary guide-posts in planning this In-
stitute. Each talk was followed by an in-
formal period of questions asked by the
students, and answered by the two
speakers for that particular session. This
proved to be one of the most interesting
parts of the program.
Frank Leahy discussed the qualities
we ought to look for in a wife, and on
the man’s side, he suggested practices
and virtues the man ought to contribute
to the partnership. In all of these items,
he gave concrete examples from his own
life. Toward the end of his talk he de-
veloped the point that marriage is very
definitely a vocation in itself, and there-
fore demands from the student serious
interest, serious preparation, and seri-
ous study — all of these factors have to
be considered if marriage is successful.
There is a familiar saying that women
were made to be loved, not understood.
But a more important question here is
just what is this thing called love? More
specifically, conjugal Jove? People have
even written songs about it. In the Mar-
riage Institute, Father Bailey spoke on
it and he pointed out that in mar-
ried life one must: 1) love irrevocably
from the first; 2) love mutually, i.e., be
loved in return; 3) love the total person
of the beloved in his or her supernatural
destiny; 4) love altruistically, unselfish-
ly; 5) find the completion of one’s own
personality in the beloved; and 6) desire
the fruit of love, which is the primary
objective purpose of the union, that is,
children. To have love explained in this
way is to understand clearly why love,
primarily a spiritual thing, is an act
emanating from the faculty of the will
of man. We can see then why true love
is not just a physical urge or a feeling
of emotion.
One of the most interesting lectures in
this series was given by Dr. Herbert
Ratner, a staff member1 of Loyola Medi-
The author is an instructor in Reli-
gion at the University of Notre Dame,
and was ordained to the priesthood in
194.6. Originally from Cleveland, 0.,
Father Lochner received an A.B, degree
from Notre Dame in 19S7. He contin-
ued his education at Catholic U., and
was awarded a Master of Arts degree
in 1947.
cal School in Chicago, and Commissioner
of Health in Oak Park, Illinois. He is a
man who has had wide experience not
only as a doctor bnt also as a marriage
counselor. Dr. Ratner debunked the mod-
ern illusion that, if one is to have a
happy and successful marriage, it is ne-
cessary to study in detail and at great
length with books, charts and pictures
everything that is to be known about the
physiological and anatomical aspects of
marriage. He certainly was reasoning
deeply and forcefully when he said, “If
we had to depend upon physiology and
anatomy to be successful in marriage,
none of us would be here today. Human
beings were living long before such sub-
jects and such books came into existence.
So God in creating man did not depend
upon these things to make marriage suc-
cessful.”
In subsequent talks, the “other side”
of married life was well developed and
stressed by various speakers.
Mr, Robert Sullivan, a member of the
College of Law faculty, married, a law-
yer and former football player spoke on
the legal aspects of marriage. A profes-
sor in the Department of Economics, Mr.
Louis Radelet, himself a married man
and father of a family, discussed a topic
which every husband ought to know
something about—money. Mr. Radelet
treated the family as an economic unit
and considered it as an enterprise. He
suggested seven methods for the manage-
ment of money by the husband and wife,
and all of these had been found useful
and workable.
Mr. and Mrs. Pat Crowley, of Chicago,
gave a very interesting discussion of the
project in which they are involved called
Christian Family Action (CFA). This
movement has, apparently, spread from
coast to coast. Many neighborhood fami-
lies form a group, have periodic meet-
ings, and discuss and solve the problems
Mr. and Mrs. Crowley
of their own families and those of the
community in which they live. The Crow-
leys explained the program for these
meetings and how they were conducted.
In the case of these two persons, they
are interested in not only living a suc-
cessful married life themselves but also
interested in helping other couples and
families do the same—and all families to
live peacefully together as a community.
The final panel of this series was on
the all-important topic, courtship and
engagement. Father Theodore Hesburgh,
C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of the
University, and former chaplain of Vet-
ville, where married students and their
families live, spoke about courtship. The
theme of his talk covered two important
items: How to determine if your girl is
the one and, how to win and deepen
love leading to marriage?
The examples and advice he gave were
highlighted by eight points: 1) be your-
self—sincerity and frankness; 2) be
thoughtful—try to make her happy, a
better person; 3) associate with her in
real life circumstances—don’t live in a
tavern; 4) pray with her—share inner
confidences and ambitions and hopes; 5)
don’t over-spend yourself—nor be a
cheapskate either; 6) give her a chance
to do something for you—love grows on
mutual sacrifice; 7) be mature, and re-
spectful of her—gentlemanliness; 8)
show her that you are the best man for
her—by being it.
By the end of the eight week series
and the last of the sixteen panel speak-
ers, the students who attended the course
of lectures realized at least one thing if
nothing else—that life, and especially
married life, consists of more than just
movies, dinners and dances. And a rea-
lization of that is the beginning of con-
jugal wisdom and that is the first step
to finding happiness and success in mar-
riage.
Marriage Institute
Program
Session No. I
Introductory
Father Frank Nealy, o.P.—The
Crisis of Modern Marriage
Mr. Frank Leahy—Christian Mar-
riage, a Providential Vocation
Session No. 2
Sociological Aspects of Marriage
Father Frank Cavanaugh, c.S.C.—
Modern Family Tensions
Mr. John Kane—Family as the
Basis of Social Living
Session No. 3
Psychological Aspects of Marriage
Father James Smyth—Psychology
of Men and Women
Father Paul Bailey, C.S.C.—Con-
jugal Love and Marital Happi-
ness
Session No. 4
Physiological and Educational
Aspects of Marriage
Dr. Herbert Ratner' — Physiology
of Marriage
Father Joseph Haley, C.S.C.—Sex
Education with Accent on Purity
Session No. 5
Economic and Legal
Aspects of Marriage
Mr. Louis Radelet—Money and
Marriage
Mr. Robert Sullivan — Law and
Marriage
Session No. 6
Sacramental Aspects of Marriage
Mr. Patrick Crowley—Aiming for
Sanctity in Marriage
Mrs Patricia Crowley—The Apos-
tolate of Catholic Family Life
Session No. 7
Moral Aspects of Marriage
Father Philip Hanley, o.P.—Cur-
rent Moral Attitudes on Marriage
Father Charles Sheedy, c.s.c.—
Virtues of Christian Married Life
Session No. 8
Preparation for Christian
Married Life
Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S..C.
— Purpose and Conduct of
Courtship
Father Thomas McDonagh, C.S.C.
— Engagement as Preparation
for Marriage
Vol. 3 • No. 2
13
Measuring Sticks of Maturity
After Its Diamond Jubilee, a Self-Made University
Finds That It Has Outgrown the Economic and
Academic Buckskins of Its Early American Life
(The story of the first stirrings of economic consciousness,
beyond the simple faith and adjustments to hardships of
seventy-five years, is found in the following excerpts from the
first Universal Notre Dame Night Address in 1924 by the late
Albert Russell Erskine, then president of the Studebaker Corpora-
tion and President of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees.)
M e tl
(Seventh in a series of articles on the
history of Notre Dame, adapted from the
book, "Notre Dame One Hundred Years,"
by Rev. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.)

J-^IAMOND JUBILEE publicity in 1917
had revealed a stature for Notre
Dame that probably even its own ad- j
ministrators had not consciously known. ;

“Up to the year of 1916, the University had never received
an endowment. In seventy-four years from the date of its estab-
lishment by Father Sorin and his associates, it grew from a log
cabin with sixteen students to an immense institution with over
one thousand students. While it received some scholarships
and trust funds, its first endowment of $5,000 was received in
1916. It received no more until 1920, when $65,000 was given
it. Immediately upon the organization of the board of lay
trustees, the University determined to raise a $ 1,000,000 endow-
ment fund and a $1,000,000 building fund. The first campaign
was conducted in South Bend in the year 1921, when $350,000
was raised. Other campaigns were started and continued in
numerous cities and among alumni members with the hearty co-
operation and splendid assistance of the Alumni Association.
Desiring to encourage the University and help towards the
success of its plans, the General Education Board subscribed
$250,000 to the endowment fund, payable in event the $1,000,-
000 goal was reached. The Carnegie Corporation subscribed
$75,000 for the same purpose. To make a long story short, the
$1,000,000 endowment fund was subscribed before June 20,
1922, and $344,446.88 was subscribed for the building and
development fund up to March 31, 1924."
Today, in 1950, twenty-six years later, the University of
Notre Dame continues to operate with one of the smallest en-
dowments of any major university in America — $4,100,000.
Its progress despite this handicap has been made possible by
the benefactions of alumni and other friends, by sound business
organization, and by the living endowment of the unselfish
services of the priests and brothers of Holy Cross who in lesser
and lesser numbers, proportionately, teach and administer the
University.
College of Commerce—A Gift
The impact of the first World War '
added new power and new recognition to |
a campus that had long basked in the ।
mellow sun of Catholic culture, imposed
on a virile democratic way of life for
young men that contained something of
both cloister* and country club.	!
i
The time was strategic for adminis-
trative change, and in 1919 the Rev. ■
James A. Burns, C.S.C., austere, calm
scholar, succeeded to the presidency, the
tenth in the brilliant and varied line of ;
succession.
Father Burns, who had achieved more
recognition in the academic councils of j
American education, both Catholic and
secular, than any of his confreres in the
Congregation, was quick to sense the
opportunity to stir the intellectual im-
pulses and raise the standards of Notre
Dame.
In spite of a rich and accidental herit-
age in the budding genius of Knute
Rockne, which brought the headline writ-
ing of George Gipp and the undefeated
football teams of 1919 and 1920, the
scholarly pen of the new president wrote
new pages steadily and uncompromising-
ly into the book of progress.
Over many loud voices of tradition
and economic pessimism, the long-exist-
ing preparatory school was abandoned. |
The move not only made way for a grow- |
ing postwar* enrollment of college stu- )
14
Notre Dame
Gifts to Notre Dame in 1949
A Letter from the President
Dear Friend of Notre Dame:
You, who have shared so encouragingly our interests and our problems, are entitled to the report of our
progress which I am pleased to submit herewith.
In its broad aspects, the year 1949 was the most encouraging to the University and its administration of
any recent year. This was because of the unprecedented generosity and participation within the year by
alumni and by friends other than alumni.
I am grateful to the Associate Board of Lay Trustees, to the Board of Directors of the Alumni Associa-
tion, to the Advisory Councils of Science and Engineering and of Commerce, to the State Governors and City
Committeemen of the University of Notre Dame Foundation, to the President’s Committee in New York City,
and to the campus staffs of these groups. It was through their zealous and effective missionary work that the
story of Notre Dame was carried to many more persons than ever before. We believe the results have come
from this understanding.
The two outstanding projects which comprised the major million-dollar gift of Mrs. Fred J. Fisher were
most encouraging, not only in implementing principles of campus residence and student aid—which have
marked Notre Dame from its founding—but in their confirmation that these aspirations of the University are
shared by those who are looking for the proper training of young men.
Other generous gifts were diversified in purpose, which was an encouraging factor in itself. Our failure
to achieve more than $484,365.36 toward our goal of $1,400,000 to complete the proposed Science Building,
was offset substantially by this assurance that our other problems were not obscured by the concentration.
And we do have many other problems. We are constantly working under the handicap of a low and in-
adequate unrestricted endowment; we have the immediate problem of expanding maintenance facilities—-a
building, a sewage and water system, lighting and heating provisions—which are essential if we are to construct
our new buildings, but which do not have the sentiment or the graphic appeal that mark academic projects.
Alumni giving reached a new high total in amount, and was accompanied by a participation of alumni
ranking high in national comparisons with alumni giving in other schools. The number of non-alumni friends
almost doubled our best preceding total. So we are encouraged in the solution of the problems we have
obviously only implied. We know that great opportunities are inherent in these problems. We know that
the training of a moral, responsible leadership is in itself full justification of our effort. But it is most
gratifying to feel that our administrative convictions are shared, our problems understood, and our efforts
supported.
I commend to your friendship this Report, with its rich significance of growing understanding and help.
I trust that it will be a reward for those of you whose participation made it possible, and that it will be a
stimulus to those for whom the sharing of a great purpose—the building of tomorrow’s leadership—remains
a satisfaction yet to be experienced.
Very sincerely yours,
Gifts to the University
A report prepared by the Uni
I.	GIFTS FOR BUILDING PURPOSES
The Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memorial Dormitory ...................................
The New Science Building
Anonymous (2 gifts of $25,000) ----------------................................. 50,000.00
Anonymous (2 gifts) ------------------------------..........-.....................
J.	H. Fendrich (Organic Laboratory) ........................................... 10,725.00
Charles M. Hayes................................................................. 5,000.00
Hearst Corporation _____________-................................................ 5,000.00
Kresge Foundation (Electronics Laboratory) ..............................-...... 25,000.00
Arthur B. McBride (Nuclear Physics Laboratory)................................... 5,000.00
Edward J. McBride .............................................................. 10,000.00
Charles L. McMahon, Inc. (Administration Office) ................................ 6,000.00
Hugh M. O’Neill ............................................................... 5,000.00
Sollitt Construction Company, Inc...............................  -.............. 5,000.00
John C. Tully _________________________________________________________________ 6,000.00
Thomas H. Zosky (Dark Room, Reading Room) .....................................   6,800.00
Gifts under $5,000 ........................................................     334,140.36
Other .............................................................................
$750,000.00
484,365.36
4,273.50
TOTAL ______________________________________
$1,238,638.86
II.	SPECIAL FUNDS AND RESTRICTED GIFTS
The James M. Haggar Fund (this fund now totals $47,138.27)...............................
The Karl E. Koch Fund (this fund now totals $61,825.15) ................................
The Ernest M. Morris Foundation (this fund now totals $291,033.68) .....................
The I. A. O’Shaughnessy Fine Arts Foundation (this fund now totals $542,512.38).........
7,000.00
6,800.00
78,500.00
100,000.00
College of Arts and Letters
The Rockefeller Foundation (to further the study of Interna-
tional Relations, payment to be made over a three-year period) ....................... 69,000.00
Other ...................................................................................    1,130.00
College of Commerce------------------------------------------------------------.......................................------------------
College of Engineering -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
College of Law
Alvin A. Gould (to sponsor the Third Natural Law
Institute, and establish the Natural Law Library) ...................................   4,350.00
Other -------------------------------------------........................................ 500.00
Endowment Funds..................................................................
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND)
Companions of the Forest of America.............................................. 1674 qq
Damon Runyon Cancer Fund (to support basic work with germ-free
animals as a biological tool for cancer studies) .......................... 25,000.00
John P. Wagner .............................................................. 2*500 00
Others ......................................................................... 100.00
70,130.00
350.00
2,550.00
4,850.00
1,000.00
liturgical School
Michael P. Grace Trust (to foster study and appreciation of the liturgy
of the Roman Catholic Church) (this fund now totals $7,045.37) ......................
Medieval Institute
William J. Corbett Fund for the Medieval Library .(this fund
29,274.00
10,000.00
now totals $74,316.20) ...............................................................  40,000.00
Michael P. Grace Trust (this fund now totals $83,500.00) ................................. 20*000	00
Other ...................................................................................   *150.00
60,150.00
Scholarship Funds (Endowment)
Anonymous .......................................................................
O. J. Caron (this fund now totals $32,500.00) ...............................  "
Mr. and Mrs. John L. Harrigan (this fund now totals $8,500.00) ....J'Z™"™
John H. Neeson Memorial Scholarship (this fund now totals $6,705.00)
Notre Dame Club of Cincinnati (this fund now totals $6,000.00) ..........
Notre Dame Club of Cleveland (total of fund No. 1, $10,000.00)
(total of fund No. 2, $1,000.00) ................................
Thomas W. Pangborn Scholarship (this fund now totals $9,330.00) .............
*Does not include income from previously invested scholarship funds.
5,800.00
2,500.00
1,000.00
3,410.00
2,000.00
1,000.00
20,710.00*
' of Notre Dame in 1949
versify of Notre Dame Foundation
Scholarship Funds (Awards)
Rev. James A. Burns Memorial Scholarships ......................................    10,000.00
Michael P. Grace Trust ..........................................................    1,000.00
Notre Dame	Club	of Akron ....................................................    1,000.00
Notre Dame	Club	of Indianapolis __________________________________________________ 500.00
Notre Dame	Club	of Kentucky ...................................................  3,400.00
Notre Dame	Club	of New York.................................................     2,000.00
Notre Dame	Club	of Rock River	Valley.............................................  250.00
Notre Dame Club of St. Joseph Valley.................-.............................  1,860.00
Notre Dame Club of St. Louis ........................................................  400.00
Thomas H. Zosky Scholarship .....................................................    1,200.00
Student Loan Funds
Fred J. and Sally Fisher Education Fund______________________________________________ 250,000.00
George E. Sokolsky Student Loan Fund (this fund now totals $1,405.00)________________ 100.00
Other ...............................................................................    1,650.00
Doctor Albert Zahm’s “Collected Papers” ................................................
Other ..................................................................................
TOTAL ..............................................
TOTAL, GIFTS FOR BUILDING PURPOSES, SPECIAL FUNDS AND
RESTRICTED GIFTS (8,675 DONORS) ......................
21,610.00
251,750.00
15,000.00
6,228.81
685,902.81
1,924,541.67
III.	RESEARCH FELLOWSHIPS AND GRANTS
Research Fellowships (Current Gifts)
American Cyanamid Company (Chemistry) ........................................... 1,500.00
Coca Cola Company (Chemistry) -------------------------------------------------- 3,200.00
Central Soya Bean Co. (Chemistry) ..............................................  1,200.00
DuPont Industrial Grant (Chemistry) ............................................. 2,800.00
International Nickel Company (Physics) .......................................... 2,500.00
Eli Lilly Company (Chemistry) __________________________________________________ 15,000.00
Kimberly Clark Corp. (Political Science) --------------------------------------- 1,500.00
Mary Young Moore (Engineering) ...................................................  600.00
Smith, Kline & French (Chemistry) .............................................   2,000.00
Socony Vacuum Oil Company (Chemistry) ........................................... 2,000.00
Union Carbide & Carbon Co. (Metallurgy) .........................................  2,000.00	34,300.00
Research Grants, Government
Chemical Warfare Service .......................................................  3,349.52
National Advisory Commission (Aeronautics) ...................................... 7,225.00
National Advisory Commission (Metallurgy) ....--------------------------------- 24,100.00
National Institute of Health -------------------------------------------------- 1,741.98
National Institute of Health (for Cancer Research) ---------------------------- 7,198.64
U. S.	Navy Department	(Laboratories of Bacteriology) --------------------- 118,911.33
U. S.	Navy Department	(Chemistry) ........................................  57,002.06
U. S.	Navy Department	(Metallurgy) ---------------------------------------  17,119.83
U. S.	Navy Department	(Physics) ----------------------------------------    74,928.78
Other............................................  —--------------------------- -----815.30
312,392.44
Research Grants, Industry
Bureau of Economic Research (Economics) ....................................... 2,177.60
General Tire Company (Chemistry) .—---------..-----------------------------—	7,500.00
Ivano, Inc. (Chemical Engineering) .............................................  7,343.93
Kellogg Company (Laboratory of Bacteriology) .................................... 3,600.00
Olin Industries, Inc. (Chemistry) .............................................  12,500.00
Outdoor Advertising Agencies (Commerce) ..........................................  350.00
Research Corp, of America (Physics) ..........................................    7,000.00
Sinclair Refining Co. (Chemistry) .............................................  15,000.00
Utilities Research Commission (Engineering Mechanics) ............................ 5,141.73	60,613.26
TOTAL .............................................
$407,305.70
In addition to the above gifts and grants-in-aid, the University of Notre Dame gratefully acknowledges
the many benefactions to its Libraries, Archives and Art Gallery, and to its various Colleges
and Departments. In particular does it wish to acknowledge receipt of the following:
For the College of Engineering, a 10 KW Generator donated by James and Robert Hamilton. Value_______________$10,000.00
For the Department of Physics, an Electron Microscope donated by the Radio Corporation of America. Value 15,000.00
For the Radiation Chemistry Project, a 2,000,000-volt Electrostatic Generator furnished by the
Atomic Energy Commission. Value -------------------------------------------------------------------------- 59,800.00
THE LONG RANGE NEEDS OF NOTRE DAME
as previously outlined in
Substance of ^opeb Jfor”
THE SCIENCE BUILDING
A NOTRE DAME INN
AN AUDITORIUM
A LIBRARY
A NEW ADMINISTRATION BUILDING
A GRADUATE RESIDENCE HALL
THREE RESIDENCE HALLS
A UNION BUILDING
A MAINTENANCE BUILDING
A LIBERAL ARTS BUILDING
BACTERIOLOGICAL LABORATORIES
A PRIESTS’ RESIDENCE HALL
ENDOWMENT FOR
Salaries of Research Teachers
Graduate Professorships
Visiting Professors and Lecturers
SPECIAL FUNDS
Library Maintenance (new books)
Support of learned publications
STUDENT AID FUNDS
Scholarships for talented and needy undergraduates
Scholarships and fellowships in the Graduate School
Post-doctoral aids
UNRESTRICTED ENDOWMENT
To improve Notre Dame’s present position as
one of the least endowed major universities
lod and Money
Enroll at Notre Dame
Rev. James A. Burns (1919-1922) Turns the Analytical Eye
of the Educator on the Needs of a University; the Jubilee and
the First World War Have Changed Many Campus Concepts
dents, but removed an institution that,
however colorful and profitable it may
have seemed, had long been a shackle on
the rise of academic standards and the
development of a University atmosphere.
The Grotto—A Gift
Father Burns had trained many
priests of the Congregation in the Holy
Cross seminaries. He was determined to
produce a religious leadership in edu-
cation, and had directed many men into
fields of interest that later paid rich
dividends in scholarship.
It was in the first year of his presi-
dency that the present College structure
of the University was instituted for
Arts and Letters, Science, Engineering
and Law. The College of Commerce was
established shortly thereafter. Deans
and department heads took the positions
that have been so vital in subsequent
development.
Postwar enrollment was crowding the
campus, and by 1921 had a student over-
flow living off the campus that was ap-
proaching in number the campus resi-
dent group. In the rich and effective
tradition of campus life and training,
the situation was a deplorable one.
Combined with overcrowded conditions,
the low faculty salary scale, that was
being aggravated as new laymen were
necessary to accommodate the increasing
numbers of students, disturbed Father
Burns. His appeal for help fell on the
listening ears of the General Education
Board, which promised $250,000, and
the Carnegie Foundation, which offered
$75,000, if Notre Dame itself could
raise $750,000 from its friends.
Fathei' Burns had cut a broad and
modern pattern for Notre Dame. He
was quick to realize that in the new
order this pattern would have to be im-
plemented by financial aid from outside
the University, itself a departure from
College of Engineering—A Gift
the long tradition of economic independ-
ence.
To his credit belongs the significant
organization of a group of outstanding
business and industrial leaders in the
Associate Board of Lay Trustees, estab-
lished in 1920 to counsel Notre Dame on
investments.
And to his lasting glory belongs the
decision to seek for a two million dollar
fund, $1,000,000 for endowment, and
$1,000,000 for building, the only major
financial effort made by the University
during its first 100 years.
So deep was Father Burns’ apprecia-
tion of the need foi' material resources
to make possible the progress of his
envisioned pattern, and so sincere was
his willingness to make any sacrifice to
further this progress, that in 1922, at
the end of his first three-year term as
president, he declined re-election and
asked to be permitted to head the work
of fund-raising which he had instituted.
It is to his priestliness, to his dignity,
to his integrity, to his vision, and to his
devotion to Catholic education, that
Notre Dame owes much of the organiza-
tion that in the last thirty years has
brought many of the richest dreams of
Father Burns to reality.
Whether it is the mechanics of
academic organization, or in the sound
finance program, in the dignity of the
faculty, or in the rich overtones of a
great University, the work of Father
Burns is manifest. Father Burns died
in 1940 and is buried on the Notre
Dame campus. ‘If you seek Ins monu-
ment look about you.’
Breen-Phillips Hall—A Gift
Vol. 3 * No. 2	15
Supersonic Speed way
Test Program in Supersonics Is Being Conducted by
Department of Aeronautical Engineering at Notre Dame
By VINCENT GODDARD
The author received a B.S. degree in
Physics from College of the Holy Cross
in 1943. Massachusetts Institute of
Technology awarded a B.S. degree in
Aeronautical Engineering to Mr. God-
dard in 1917. He is now an instructor
in the Department of Aeronautical Engi-
neering at Notre Dame, and is a techni-
cal member of the Institute of Aero-
nautical Sciences. Mr. Goddard former-
ly resided at Uxbridge, Mass.
Compressor unit for the supersonic tunnel is inspected by Mr. Goddard (r) and
David Benepe, teaching fellow, in the Aeronautical Engineering Department.
16
Notre Dame
pURING the past decade much has
U been accomplished, technologically,
in the field of supersonics. Much more
remains, especially in fundamental re-
search. Thus it is, that problems, as-
sociated with bodies traveling through
the air at speeds exceeding the speed
of .sound, have become a major interest
in the science of Aeronautics,
To the aeronautical engineer these
supersonic problems are relatively new.
Yet, somewhere around the turn of the
century, two men, Mach and de Laval
made significant contributions to the
study of supersonics. In the field of
ballistics, one of the few places where
high speed problems were encountered
at that time, Mach noted the im-
portance of the ratio of the velocity of
the body traveling in air to the velocity
of sound in that air. This ratio has be-
come known as Mach Number. In the
study of flow through channels de Laval
discovered that speeds in excess of sound
were encountered in the divergent sec-
tion of converging, diverging nozzles.
This type of nozzle is appropriately call-
ed a de Lav; 1 nozzle.
The aeronautical engineer, for conve-
nience and simplicity prefers to have the
bodies with which he is dealing remain
stationary and force air past them.
It is this preference that has fos-
tered the birth of wind tunnels. It is the
de Laval nozzle in which the air flows
at supersonic speeds that has become the
present supersonic wind tunnel for the
aeronautical engineer. It is the Mach
Number that is used in describing in
part the capability of the supersonic
tunnel.
The University of Notre Dame, being
conscious of the importance of super-
sonics to the science of aeronautics
and of its interest to the aeronautical
engineer, purchased during the Summer
of 1947, from War Surplus, part of the
equipment necessary for the construc-
tion of a supersonic wind tunnel. This
equipment consisted mainly of six
vacuum pumps and six electric motors
necessary to drive these pumps. With
this equipment it is planned to con-
struct a supersonic wind tunnel at the
University having a Mach Number of
1.8. The cost, in addition to that already
spent, will be approximately $100,000.
The building in which the Aero-
nautical Engineering Department is now
located will be inadequate to house the
proposed tunnel. The vibration produced
by the motors and pumps is enormous,
requiring a building with a foundation
quite different from the present one.
Furthermore in supersonic flow where
Pilot nozzle is beirtg designed by the author (seated) and Robert S. Eikenberry,
Associate Professor of Aeronautical Engineering. In the present-day era of jet
propelled machines, the study of high speeds has become an important research
subject for the engineer.
shock waves are .encountered, it is pos-
sible to view and photograph these
waves by three optical methods. One of
these methods is comparable to the phe-
nomenon by which we see heat waves
rise from a hot pavement. The minimum
requirement for successful operation is
that all light, extraneous to that inten-
tionally passed through the region under
investigation, be removed. Such require-
ments mean that the building must be
constructed in such a manner that it will
permit darkening of the interior. This
in turn will require the installation of
a ventilating system. Thus it is of ne-
cessity that the housing of the proposed
Mach 1.8 tunnel be one of a permanent
nature.
A test program has been set up and
begun. As a result of the first phase of
the program, where the characteristics
of the pumps and motors were deter-
mined, design of a pilot supersonic nozzle
has been completed and actual construc-
tion is in process at the present time. It
is anticipated that the pilot nozzle will
be completed by summer 1950 if not
before.
This pilot tunnel will have a Mach
Number of 1.5 and a cross sectional test
area of 6.25 square inches as compared
to the proposed tunnel of Mach Number
1.8 and test area of 36 square inches.
As the first phase of the test program
was a guide to the design of the pilot
tunnel, so will the pilot tunnel serve as
a guide to the design of the Mach 1.8
tunnel. Hence the name of pilot tunnel.
The pilot tunnel will also provide the
Department of Aeronautical Engineer-
ing with a small supersonic tunnel until
the funds necessary for the construc-
tion of the Mach 1.8 tunnel are avail-
able.
It is planned by the department to
use the pilot tunnel for undergraduate
instruction and demonstration. For the
graduate student, it will provide ample
opportunity for research of a funda-
mental nature in the realm of super-
sonics. This will be an important ad-
vance in the field of education. For
throughout the country and abroad, all
existing supersonic tunnels are sponsor-
ed eithei' by the government or indus-
try. As a consequence only advance re-
search and technological work are car-
ried out in these tunnels. To the under-
graduate student these tunnels are en-
tirely unavailable and while the gradu-
ate student may be employed under
eithei' a government or industrial con-
tract, the tunnel is still unavailable to
him for fundamental research. To avoid
this situation at Notre Dame it is de-
sired that a supersonic wind tunnel be
constructed which is readily available
for independent fundamental research
and undergraduate study.
Vol. 3 • No. 2
17
Tennis is especially popular
during Fall tourney.
Sports
for
All
Irishmen
By Ralph H. Wright
The author received an A.B. degree
from Notre Dame at the January com-
mencement exercises, having majored
in Journalism. His home is in Elyria, 0.
Handball competition is keen
on ND campus.
"VTOTED for the spirit with which they
rally behind great Fighting Irish
football teams, Notre Dame students
show just as much enthusiasm when they
participate in various non-varsity sports
on campus. Thousands of subway alumni
have evinced interest in Notre Dame’s
national championship teams but few
fans know of a regular 12-team interhall
football league, a 36-team bowling loop,
an elaborate charity boxing tournament
and many other competitive sports on
the non-varsity level.
The center of this widespread campus
sports program is the Rockne Memorial
(familiarly called the “Rock” by stu-
dents), and the chief organizers are
members of the Department of Physical
Education under Professor John A.
Scannell. However, several sports were
started by students themselves.
Last November 20, on a cold Sunday
afternoon, a large crowd of spectators
lined old Cartier Field to watch Walsh
Hall defeat Farley Hall, 27-0, for the
interhall football championship. Every
year the champions of the campus East-
ern and Western divisions meet in the
final game, usually played in the big
stadium or on Cartier. This is the
culmination of two and a half months of
regulation football with all the trim-
mings.
The interhall teams start practicing
as soon as school begins each fall. They
used to draw cast-off varsity equipment,
but this year everything was new—even
the shoes. Physical education majors,
often ex-varsity players, coach the
teams. Open to anyone except those with
18 Notre Dame
varsity experience, the squads include
many high school flashes as well as be-
ginners. They practice five times a week
and take the game seriously.
Most of the teams are copies (in style
and ideas, at least) of the big Notre
Dame eleven. Practically all of them use
the T-formation and some have even
adopted Coach Frank Leahy’s new “tele-
vision huddle”. But the coaches have
some ideas of their own; besides the
single and double wings, they occasion-
ally come up with some concoctions never
seen anywhere before.
The games are regulation even to the
officials who dress up in the usual striped
uniforms. Sometimes, before the big
games, the boys in the hall actually have
pep rallies at which players and coaches
say a few words. And they’ve been
known to appoint a few cheerleaders and
figure out a yell or two for the cause.
Despite the spirit of the eager fresh-
men, the senior halls often have the
tougher teams. The service vets have
been sparkplugs in most of the postwar
interhall power-houses.
The football league is the most color-
ful of the non-varsity sports, and prob-
ably unique in the whole country. How-
ever, the other phases of this sports pro-
gram are active, too.
While the rough-and-rugged football
players eat dust, the boys who prefei’ to
play the touch variety of the grid game
also have their fun. Last fall, Sorin
Hall won a touch football tourney that
extended into December.
Meanwhile, a volleyball league was
going at top speed. The inclement
weather didn’t keep the footballers out
of action and so the volleyball enthusi-
asts didn’t give up either. When the
snows came, they left the gridders out
in the cold and went inside the Rock to
finish their schedule. This title went
to a bunch of electrical engineers.
Other fall sports include baseball and
soccer. The former usually suffers from
the weather while soccer is handicapped
by a lack of students with know-how.
The many Latin-American students are
adept at the game, though, and they
have some big battles with the phy-ed
majors. Sometimes, the two outfits com-
bine into one team and meet other uni-
versities in unofficial matches.
The number and variety of sports
being played every fall makes it tough
for the all-around athletes to get in on
everything. A couple of years ago, one
student created quite a bit of conversa-
tion as he strolled across the interhall
athletic fields. He was dressed in gym
shorts, wore football shoes and had a
tennis racket under his arm. It seems
the fellow played for both the baseball
and football teams in his hall and was
enroute to participate in the University’s
tennis tourney.
There are tennis and golf tournaments
each fall, and they diffei' from the other
non-varsity sports in at least one re-
spect — they serve as feeders for the
varsity teams. Tennis Coach Walter
Langford runs the net tourney and never
fails to pick up a tennis prospect or
two. Rev. George Holderith, C.S.C., golf
tutor, has his varsity golfers in the
school tournament, but sometimes an un-
known comes through to win. If this
happens, the boy is sure to be a candi-
date for the varsity when spring practice
begins.
Before the fall sports program is com-
pleted, some fellows spend their time
sharpening up their shooting eyes for
interhall basketball play. Notre Dame
carries on the Indiana tradition of
Hoosier hysteria in fine style. Each year,
the phy-ed department operates three
leagues—one each for clubs, halls and
independents. 'The winners in each di-
vision meet in the championship play-off
held in the fieldhouse.
Handball, featured by a big intra-
mural tournament, ranks second to
basketball during the winter. The courts
in Rockne Memorial are often not enough
to accommodate all desiring to play.
Springtime brings baseball, of course.
A few boys already signed by major
league clubs participate so the league is
pretty fast. Softball lures more partici-
pants than does baseball and is divided
into a club league and an interhall loop.
They try interhall tennis, too, but most
of the netters prefer playing at their
leisure.
Two popular springtime sports—sail-
ing and bowling—were started by stu-
dents.
A group interested in sailing intro-
duced that sport to Notre Dame two
years ago. They didn’t have boats or a
place to practice, but they had the desire
and that proved to be enough. Entering
several meets, they showed well and
finally won University sanction. ’
Bowling, a winter as well as a spring
sport, at Notre Dame, now in its third
year, has become so successful that stu-
dent officials can’t find enough alleys
in town to accommodate all the clubs
that want to roll. The Kampus Keglers
is a league composed of 36 teams—a
result of student initiative in organi-
zing various interested groups.
Last winter and spring, the Kampus
Keglers competed in an intercollegiate
bowling league, besides meeting other
midwestern colleges on an independent
basis. The bowlers finish each season
with a sumptuous banquet where team
and individual trophies are awarded.
The largest fieldhouse crowds of the
year watch the Bengal Bouts, the annual
University boxing championships. All
profits for this affair go to the Bengal
missions in India. The fighters, who
begin training a couple of months before
the bouts, are instructed by Dominick
Bowling enjoys tremendous student support with
a 36-team league called the Kampus Keglers.
Softball, played on Badin Bog, lures more participants
than baseball and is divided into two leagues.
Bengal Bouts donates proceeds to missions in India and
provides fistic entertainment for hundreds of fans.
Vol. 3 • No. 2	19
Napolitano, an Associate Professor in
the Department of Physical Education.
He is the head man in the interhall
football league, too.
The Bengal Bouts resemble the Golden
Gloves in that they never fail to furnish
some fine boxing as well as plenty of
laughs and thrills. Napolitano’s coach-
ing, a few good fighters, a perfect no-
injury record and great campus enthu-
siasm combine to make this tournament
outstanding.
As the varsity sports take the spot-
light from the interhall leagues, the
interhall affairs in turn take attention
from the many sports that have little
organization.
Swimming is popular the year around,
but it has no competition except for one
yearly swim meet. Other sports that
have their fans include ping-pong,
squash, skating and tumbling.
The most recently constructed athletic
structure is a new skating rink in back
of St. Edward’s and Zahm halls. The
skaters already contemplate interhall
hockey and no one will be surprised if
they have that on the sports agenda
soon.
Fellowship Aid Given
255 Graduate Students
A total of 255 students, more than
on&-half of the graduate enrollment,
currently are on the roster of appoint-
ments of the Graduate School at the
University of Notre Dame, according to
an announcement by the Rev. Philip S.
Moore, C.S.C., Dean of the Notre Dame
Graduate School.
Father Moore, in making the an-
nouncement, pointed out that in terms
of dollars these appointments amount to
approximately $120,000 for the academic
semester, or nearly a quarter of a mil-
lion dollars for the schoolyear.
Of the total number of appointments,
according to Father Moore, 131 are
Teaching Fellowships. The graduate
teaching fellows assist in the under-
graduate instruction in the several
departments.
Forty-two are appointments to re-
search on government scientific pro-
grams at Notre Dame. These forty-two
do not include the six students at Notre
Dame who hold fellowships from the
Atomic Energy Commission.
Others include endowed and indus-
trial fellowships, research and technical
assistantships, as well as grants in aid
and employment services.
Professor John F. Nims
Writes Book of Poetry
John Frederick Nims, associate pro-
fessor' of English at Notre Dame, is
the author of A Fountain in Kentucky,
a book of poems just published by Wil-
liam Sloane Associates, New York.
The Iron Pastoral, another book of
poetry by Professor Nims, was pub-
lished three years ago. In 1944, his
works were included in a book called
Five Young American Poets, among
whom was Tennessee Williams. Before
he received his Ph.D. from the Univer-
sity of Chicago, Professor Nims won
the university’s Billings Prize for
Poetry for two successive years.
Notre Dame NROTC National Rifle Champs
The Fighting Irish of Notre Dame —
famed for “bullet passes” during the
football season — seem to be just as
effective when they switch to real am-
munition in the annual nationwide
ROTC rifle contests.
For the second year in a row, the
Naval Reserve Officers Training Corps
unit at the University of Notre Dame
has placed first in the William Ran-
dolph Hearst Naval ROTC Rifle Com-
petition. And for the second time in as
many years, Notre Dame junior, Donal
J. Murphy, of Hawthorne, N. J., has
topped the field in individual marks-
Top, (I to r): Hartman, Captain Daly, Murphy, Hayden and
Sgt. Sova; bottom, (I to r): Six, Brickson.
N.D. Student Awarded
1950 Rhodes Scholarship
Herman Hardy Hamilton, Jr., a senior
at the University of Notre Dame from
Montgomery, Ala., has been awarded a
1950 Rhodes Scholarship, according to
an announcement from the Selection
Committee of the Rhodes Scholarship
Trust.
Hamilton, who entered Notre Dame in
1946 as the Meehan Award Scholar from
Alabama, will graduate this June with
a bachelor of arts degree in political
science, with magna cum laude honors.
In October, he will enter Oxford Uni-
versity, England, where he plans to
study jurisprudence.
manship and led the team to victory.
Firing a splintering 924 out of 1000,
the Irish quintet nosed out the Univer-
sity of Washington by three points to
retain the national title. Besides Mur-
phy, the squad of Notre Dame riflemen
included James W. Hartman, of Van-
derlip, W. Va.; Francis G. Brickson, of
San Antonio, Texas; William K. Hay-
den III, of Highland Park, Mich., and
Wayne A. Six, of Quincy, Ill.
The 1949 and 1950 national champs
were coached by Capt. John M. Daly,
USMC, who was assisted by S/Sgt.
James Sova, USMC.
20
Notre Dame
EVERYTHING UNDER THE SUN
(Continued from Page 7)
full-time interpreters but I, for several
reasons, prefer to pick them up, here and
there, whenever I need them.
My first interpreter, my companion in
the telephone booth, was Walter. He was
a medical student, had learned English
in high school and knew less than I did
about German politics.
Walter had lunch with me twice and
when I left anything on the plate he
would eat it, saying, “We will not give
it back.”	.
' The Bonn Chamber of Commerce gave
us two sets of literature, one for Walter,
one for me. The two sets weighed about
eight pounds and Walter put them in
his brief case. Twice I took one set out
of the case, explaining that I wouldn’t
need it because I could not read German.
Every time I threw the brochures and
pamphlets away Walter would pick them
up and put them back in his brief case.
“We will not give them back,” he would
say.
Most of the interpreters have learned
English either in school or in prisoner of
war camps. The former are excellent on
such sentences as “I am going to see my
aunt’s garden” and “My aunt will let me
pick flowers” but such sentences, of
course, are seldom needed. The PW’s
know slang and comic book dialogue but
are lost when it comes to translating
terms used in German politics.
night. I didn’t learn what the final score
was until 2:30 A. M. Sunday morning
when a friend, a graduate of Southern
Methodist, by the way, monitored a short
wave broadcast from New York.
Foreign correspondents have to put up
with some mighty strange things.
SOVIET SYMPOSIUM
(Continued from Page 11)
cent Soviet concessions to the Russian
Orthodox Church. The government is
still basically anti-religious, he explained
but for reasons of expediency it now is
waging war against religion by means of
patient enlightenment of the people on
the basis of natural and social sciences.
“It is obvious that a compromise has
been reached between the Communist
government — which remains atheist—■
and the Russian Orthodox Church,
which has changed nothing of its
dogma and rites, but which is com-
pelled to utter statements in line with
the government’s foreign policy.”
Among other denominations in Russia,
the Armenian Church and the Baptists
have gained advantages similar to those
of the Orthodox church, Dr. Timasheff
said. The othei’ Protestant sects and the
Buddhists are less privileged, he .explain-
ed, and since 1949 the Jews and Moham-
medans have come under new attacks
from the state.
“At the very bottom one finds the
Catholics,” he said. “They are granted
no right of public worship in the USSR
except in Lithuania, although even there
the episcopate has been driven under-
ground.”
Final speaker on the symposium was
Father Francis Dvornik of Harvard
University. He went one step farther in
attempting to demonstrate the historical
basis for Church-State struggles within
the Iron Curtain countries.
He traced the center of difficulty to
the origin of the King-Priest theory,
which granted the ruling monarch an
important share in the administration of
the Church. “In liquidating the last re-
mains of the Uniate Church . . . the So-
viet regime simply followed in the steps
of the Tsars.”
Fathei’ Dvornik said it was clear that
the compromise in Czechoslovakia was
foredoomed to failure.
“It was clear to any objective observ-
er and student of Communist methods,
that the Vatican’s hopes were in vain,
and that the Communist regime would
in due course be established in Czecho-
slovakia as it was in other countries
under the Soviet influence.”
But some hope for the survival of re-
ligion under the Communist persecution
was advanced by Father Dvornik, who
praised the living faith of the simple
people. In conclusion, he urged a prayer
to “help the simple faithful beyond the
Iron Curtain to bear their crosses pati-
ently, and to inspire their religious lead-
ers to find the right way in a most diffi-
cult situation.”
Two experiences I will never forget.
While doing a feature story on the
Goethe Haus in Frankfurt my interpre-
ter translated “chimney” as “the hole
through which smoke goes.” On another
occassion I told an interpreter to ask
the subject a short question, one that re-
quired only a “yes” or “no” answer. The
interpreter jabbered away for several
minutes. Then the subject talked for at
least four minutes. Turning to me the
interpreter said somewhat triumphantly,
“Yes!” I have often wondered what took
them so long.
My most memorable, and frustrating,
experience by far concerns the broadcast
of the Notre Dame-Southern Methodist
football game. The broadcast was
carried in Germany by the American
Armed Forces Network.
With Notre Dame leading by only
seven points, with two minutes yet to
play, and with that man Kyle Rote still
running like a wild mustang, the army
station cut off the broadcast, saying,
“We interrupt the broadcast of the foot-
ball game to bring you a review of the
week’s local news. At midnight we go
off the air until 6 Sunday morning.”
It was then 11:55 P. M. Saturday
Irving Berlin presents $25,000 check to Professor James A. Reyniers, Director
of the Laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame, from the Damon Runyon
Memorial Cancer Fund. This gift will be used for cancer research.
Vol. 3
No. 2
21
(Young) MEN WORKING
Notre Dame Helps Many Students to Achieve
Education Through Employment on Campus
By Lawrence Flaherty
“fJHE price we pay for knowledge is
working our way through college!”
If this refrain were echoed by all the
Notre Dame students to -whom it applies,
the 942 voices raised in chorus -would
well attest to a mighty job being per-
formed by the Student Employment
Service at Notre Dame.
Under the capable supervision of Mrs.
Inez Van Scoik, hundreds of applications
for part-time jobs are read, noted and
filed from under-graduate and graduate
students who signify their desire for
higher education but their inability to
meet the financial obligations on a cash
and carry basis.
Not every applicant is assured of
assistance, however. The most urgent
cases rate priority for the limited num-
ber' of campus jobs available. Considera-
tion is also given to the applicants’ scho-
lastic and disciplinary records. Students
previously employed must show a satis-
factory job record.
Naturally, students indicate their job
preference but more often than not this
detail presents complications. The cam-
pus dining hall employs several score
students; there is but one official news-
paper deliveryman at Notre Dame.
“Odds are that applicants for a news-
The University of Notre Dame
furnishes part-time employment to
nearly one-fifth of its entire stu-
dent body at a total cost of ap-
proximately $337,480. Net revenue
of $155,000 from all athletics, in
last fiscal year, was less than
half of amount Notre Dame ex-
pends to aid needy students.
The author received an A.B. degree
in Journalism from Notre Dame at the
mid-year commencement exercises. He
entered the University of Notre Dame
after a three-year hitch in the U. S.
Army Air Force during World War II.
Mr. Flaherty, who now resides in To-
ledo, 0., is an expert bridge player.
man’s delivery job are apt to find them-
selves washing dishes,” smiles Mrs. Van
Scoik.
A few specialist jobs—technicians in
the Science labs, for instance—calls for
an exercise of another kind of ingenuity.
Financial need and personal preference
will probably be less important a factor
than ability in filling such a position.
The average work week for the Notre
Dame student employee is 12 hours. That
cuts a sizable piece out of available time
for studies. It also calls for added mental
discipline if a 77% scholastic average is
to be maintained—one of the conditions
that goes with any student job on the
Notre Dame campus.
In an unofficial capacity, Mrs. Van
Scoik has obtained many positions for
students through contact with down-
town South Bend industry. Studebaker
assembly-line workers, clothing store
salesmen — from their ranks too, a
goodly portion of tenors have as their
theme, “We are working oui’ way
through college!”
Notre Dame Foundation addressograph plates are kept
current by student part-time assistants.
22 Notre Dame
Table Tennis paddles are given to would-be champs by stu-
dent employe in recreation room located on campus.
Student Life-Guard is employed in the Rockne
Library hours are busy periods for those working
Memorial swimming pool.
as well as those studying.
Only one newsboy, o? newsman, de-
livers dailies to administrative offices,
student infirmary and other buildings
on 1700-acre campus.
Science Museum, with its collection of
minerals, ores, geological specimens,
and rare fossil remains employs stu-
dent assistants on staff.
I. B. M machine is operated by student
working in the University1s tabulating
office. This is one of many unique jobs
available to undergrads.
o
Vol. 3 ’ No. 2	23
DICE. STUD POKER AND MATH
(Continued from Page 5)
test-determined values for the differ-
ent letters in his equation.
Nuclear physicists can use the for-
mulas to determine whether or not a
“chain reaction” will last long enough
to produce an atomic explosion. Soci-
ologists can use it to study the spread
of rumors. Applications are almost
limitless.
Some of the more abstract research
investigations now being carried on in
the department are of interest to the
non-scientist. Dr. Ky Fan, for instance,
is studying the intricate problems of a
subject called “topology.”
Topology is a whole branch of study
based on the principle that common
geometric figures — such as lines, cubes,
and spheres — can be stretched out of
shape like rubber. Topology limits it-
self to a consideration of those charac-
teristics that don’t change during this
stretching . . . like the fact that the
sphere will always have an inside and
an outside, or that two intersecting
lines will always cross each other. Ten
years ago, the weird figures used in
this study were little more than a basis
for amusing scientific parlor tricks; but
recent investigation shows that it can
be put to real scientific use. Dr. Ky
Fan’s work revolves about phases of it
which are still in the purely theoretical
stages.
But if the odd figures of topology
(like inner tubes turned inside out, and
solid figures with only one side) con-
fuse a non-mathematician, the casual
observer is really in for a jolt when
he takes a peek at the department’s
research in algebra and number theory.
Because this is one place in the de-
partment where two and two don’t
always add up to four . . . sometimes
they make zero!
Work in this field, which is being
carried on primarily by Dr. Ross and
Father Brown, involves abstract num-
ber systems quite different from the
one most of us are used to. Far from
being a scientific curiosity, modem al-
gebra is of great value in other
branches of mathematics and theoretical
physics; and number theory, in spite of
its highly abstract nature, is indis-
pensable in planning and operating
many modem calculating machines.
At any rate, though, the Department
of Mathematics has a lot more vitality
than the usual picture of dusty books
and mystic symbols that springs to mind
when the word “mathematics” is men-
tioned. Besides an outstanding program
of research, the department offers an
interesting, practical course of study to
students who wish to follow mathemat-
Dignitaries attending the Natural Law Institute watch unveiling of new Institute
■plaque: (I to r) Dean Clarence Manion of the College of Law; Professor Edward
S. Cronin, speaker, of Princeton University; Father Howard Kenna, c.s.c., Vice-
President in Charge of Academic Affairs; Alvin A. Gould, sponsor of the Institute,
and the Hon. Richard O’Sullivan, former king’s counsel of Great Britain, speaker.
Third Natural Law Institute
A Natural Law Library, believed to
be the only one of its kind in the world,
was founded at the University of Notre
Dame during the third annual Natural
Law Institute held recently in the Col-
lege of Law at Notre Dame.
The Natural Law Library at Notre
Dame will be known as the Alvin A.
Gould Collection. It will be named after
ics as a careel' ... as well as those
who will use it only as a supplement
to their work in other fields.
And practically the whole range of
its accomplishments can be traced to
the thoughtful originality of Dr. Arnold
Ross and his staff. Dr. Ross has
summed up their plan of action in
these words:
“We don’t do things just because
other mathematics departments have
been doing the same thing for years.
If a traditional program needs over-
hauling because of modern develop-
ments, we don’t stand on formality in
reforming the ideas of yesterday. We
base our courses and methods on the
idea that they will be needed today
. . . and tomorrow!”
Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, 0., business-
man, founder of the library and spon-
sor of the 1948 and 1949 Natural Law
Institute programs at Notre Dame.
The Gould Collection will consist of a
complete and representative group of
books and materials on the Natural Law
doctrine, and will be accessible to schol-
ars and students of the Natural Law.
Another Lab Sponsored
In New Science Building
John H. Fendrich, President of H.
Fendrich, Inc., Evansville, Ind., has pre-
sented a gift of $10,725 to the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame to cover the cost of
the Auxiliary Organic Research Labora-
tory in the proposed new Science Build-
ing at Notre Dame.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of Notre Dame, in making the
announcement of Mr. Fendrich’s gift,
said that the new laboratory made poss-
ible by Mr. Fendrich’s generosity will be
a memorial to the late Herrmann and
Mary Reitz Fendrich, parents of the
Evansville business executive.
24
Notre Dame
The Sherman Collection
Civil War Mementoes Stored in Notre Dame Archives
By Thomas M. McAllister
AN unsigned portrait of Lt. Gen. Wil-
liam Tecumseh. Sherman has been
added to Notre Dame’s growing collec-
tion of Shermaniana.
The painting, depicting the General in
his late years, is on exhibition in the
Wightman Memorial Art Gallery in the
Notre Dame Library. The rest of the
Sherman collection is in the University
Archives, and most has been donated by
Miss Eleanor Sherman Fitch, General
Sherman’s granddaughter, and Mrs.
Florence Ewing Steele, both of New
York City.
Until a new library is built on the
campus, and the present structure is
turned into an art gallery and museum,
students and visitors to the campus will
be unable to view the collection of pos-
sessions and mementoes of the famed
Civil War commander, since there is no
room to exhibit it under present condi-
tions.
Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., director
of the University Archives, and other
members of the library staff are trying
to determine the identity of the painter
whose work now is in the University’s
possession. Dr. Maurice Goldblatt, cura-
tor of the art gallery, assumes that the
hands and face were done by a master
and the rest of the portrait, of an inferi-
or quality, by one of his students.
However’, it is the part of the collec-
tion still in the Archives which would
probably be of most interest to the lay-
man. One of Sherman’s uniforms, some
battered battle flags, the seal of the no-
torious prisoner-of-war camp at Ander-
sonville, Georgia, where, it is said, one
hundred Union prisoners died each day,
the key to Appomattox Courthouse,
where Grant accepted Lee’s surrender,
and many other souvenirs of the Civil
War are stored in the Archives. Several
packages of letters written by the Gen-
eral during the Civil War, some of them
The author is a senior in the College
of Arts and Letters and is majoring in
Journalism. He is from Albany, N. Y.,
and a veteran of three years in the
United States Army. Following V-E
Day, he was affiliated with the War
Crimes Commission in Nurenburg.
still unpublished, are included in the col-
lection.
It is believed that the unpublished let-
ters may throw a new light on the char-
acter of a man who was thought to be
an embittered, wrathful taskmaster.
Sherman’s portrait is viewed by Father McAvoy.
Sherman may have been a victim of cir-
cumstances; he was very definitely on
the “outs” with the Civil War press. He
had worked in the South in pre-war days
and hesitated to take up arms against
his former friends.
The collection of Shermaniana has
found its way to Notre Dame because
of the close connection between the Uni-
versity and the Sherman family. While
the General was at war his wife and
four children lived at St. Mary’s Col-
lege in South Bend; Mother Angela,
C.S.C., president of St. Mary’s at the
time, was a cousin of Eleanor Ewing
Sherman, the General’s wife.
Two of Sherman’s sons, Willy and
Tommy, attended Notre Dame and his
daughter, Minnie, was a student at St.
Mary’s. An infant son, Charles, died
here in December, 1864 and was buried
by Father Sorin, C.S.C., founder of No-
tre Dame. Willy died while visiting his
father in Memphis fourteen months be-
fore Charles’ death.
Tommy later became the Rev. Thom-
as Sherman, S. J., a renowned missionary.
Father Sherman lectured at Notre Dame
on several occasions.
Rev. Joseph C. Carrier, C.S.C., one of
the founding fathers of Notre Dame’s
College of Science, aided in forming a
friendly bond between Notre Dame and
General Sherman. He was a chaplain
in the 15th Army Corps, Sherman’s war-
time command. The general thought
highly of Father Carrier and refused to
release him when the Congregation pro-
vincial requested that the priest be re-
turned to Notre Dame.
General Sherman visited Notre Dame
only twice. He spoke at the commence-
ment exercises here June 7, 1865 and
returned to speak to the Knights of St.
Patrick a decade later, March 17, 1875.
On both occasions he denounced anyone
and anything that might harm the na-
tion that he loved so much. He referred
to the Confederate generals whom he op-
posed— Johnston, Hood, Beauregard,
Hardee and Wheeler — as “traitor gen-
erals.”
Until the still unpublished letters of
William T. Sherman are placed on exhi-
bition—until the new library is built—
we will not know how much the great
Union commander loved his country and
how much he hated those who opposed it.
Vol. 3
No. 2
25
Atom Smasher Purchased
For Peacetime Research
A new 2,000,000 volt Van de Graaff
electrostatic generator, popularly known
as an “atom smasher”, has been ordered
by the Radiation Chemistry Project at
the University of Notre Dame from the
High Voltage Engineering Corporation
of Cambridge, Mass.
The new generator for the Notre
Dame project, which is jointly sponsored
by Notre Dame and the Atomic Energy
Commission, is rated to give a 100
microampere electron beam, or 2,000,000
volt x-rays, dependent upon the target
arrangement employed.
A three-unit laboratory will house the
new generator. Construction already
has begun at Notre Dame on a
20’ by 30’ concrete room, the walls of
which attain a thickness of fifty-two
inches at the front. An arrangement
of mirrors and viewing tube permits
clear observation of the instrument from
a separate control room, measuring 20’
by 20’, without hazard to personnel.
Safety devices are such that the ex-
perimentors cannot accidentally be in
the concrete-enclosed area during use of
the generator.
The new construction and installation
will make possible an intensification of
the work of the Radiation Chemistry
Project at Notre Dame. The project
is concerned exclusively with funda-
mental, non-secret investigations of
problems, the solutions of which are
necessary for development of peaceful
potentialities of atomic energy.
Cancer Gift Aids
Campus Research Program
A contribution of $1,674 to the cancer
research program of the Laboratories of
Bacteriology at the University of Notre
Dame has been received by Notre Dame
from the Companions of the Forest of
America.
The Companions of the Forest of
America is an organization devoted to
the support of hospital care and protec-
tion, old age security, and home environ-
ment for oi'phans.
Mrs. Alma C. Clark, supreme finan-
cial secretary of the organization, for-
warded the contribution to Notre Dame.
The organization, with headquarters in
New York City, annually sponsors a
fund-raising program for a cancer
fund.
The University of Notre Dame Foun-
dation, in acknowledging the cancer
gift, paid special tribute to groups which
are sponsoring basic research in college
and university laboratories.
Dooley Appointed Head
Of Placement Bureau
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of Notre
Dame, recently announced the appoint-
ment of William R. Dooley, Managing
Editor of the Notre Dame Alumnus and
for the past sixteen years Assistant
Alumni Secretary at the University, as
Placement Director of Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh, in making the an-
nouncement, said that in a reorganiza-
tion of the central Placement Bureau at
Notre Dame, Mr. Dooley will devote
himself entirely to assisting Notre Dame
students and alumni with regard to full-
time employment. Counseling as the
basis of all effective employment aid will
be particularly stressed in the new
organization.
As Placement Director, cooperating
with the Notre Dame faculty, Mr.
Dooley will serve as the University’s
chief representative in maintaining em-
ployment contacts with business and in-
dustry all over the country. An im-
portant part of his work will be to
receive the numerous personnel repre-
sentatives who annually visit the Notre
Dame campus to interview members of
the senior class regarding employment.
President Names Foundation Committee
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., has ap-
pointed an Executive Committee to admin-
ister the affairs of the University of Notre
Dame Foundation under his direction.
Frank C. Walker, ’09, New York City Foun-
dation Chairman, and chairman of the Com-
mittee on Alumni and Public Affairs of the
Associate Board of Lay Trustees, will
serve as Chairman of the Executive Com-
mittee.
Other members of the committee include,
left to right, seated, Rev. John H. Murphy,
C.S.C., vice-president in charge of public
relations at the University; Mr. Walker;
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president
of the University; and Rev. Theodore Hes-
burgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president.
Standing are John Cackley, Foundation
office staff; J. Arthur Haley, director of
public relations; James E. Armstrong, alum-
ni secretary and Foundation vice-chairman;
John B. Kanaley, Foundation co-chairman
in New York City; and Herman Zitt, Foun-
dation office staff.
Fulbright Scholarship for
Notre Dame Professor
Dr. A. Robert Caponigri, assistant
professor of philosophy at the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, has been selected
by the U. S. State Department to re-
ceive a Fulbright Research Scholarship
for study during 1950 in Italy.
Professor Caponigri’s activities
abroad will center about Naples, where
he intends to use the facilities of the
Vico Library to examine the theory of
history expressed by Gian Battista Vico,
an 18th century Christian philosopher.
Dr. Caponigri will be the first pro-
fessor to visit Italy under the terms of
the act.
■ — ■ I	a	'
Air R.O.T.C. Cadets Win
Chicago Tribune Awards
Two cadets in the Air R.O.T.C. unit at
the University of Notre Dame have been
awarded Chicago Tribune Medals for ex-
cellence in military achievement, scho-
lastic attainment and character.
Recipients of the medals for the Fall
semester of the 1949-50 schoolyeai' at
Notre Dame are William A. Whiteside,
Jr., of Philadelphia, Pa., and John E.
Petitbon, of New Orleans, La.
26 Notre Dame
																*		
																		
			... zzzzzzZZZZZZZZZ	•WW///////////M.	L		MV											
4
I-
■—
fund-raising program this year to pro
vide financial aid for physical expan
Foundation Begins Program
jHH With Successful Results
Notre Dame, Ind.—A total of $551,803
was received in 1947, from alumni and
non-alumni friends by the University
of Notre Dame Foundation. This
amount included $205,790 from 303
non-alumni friends of the University.
Notre Dame embarked on a long-range z
HI sion, additional scholarships and im-
proved research facilities.
Notre Dame Receives Gifts
Totaling $614,939.42 in 1948
Notre Dame, Ind. — Gifts totaling
$614,939.42, representing urgently-
needed financial aid in the University’s
long-range endowment and physical ex-
pansion program, were received in 1948
by Notre Dame from alumni and non-
alumni friends, according to Rev. John
J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of Notre
Dame.
The total, according to Father Cav-
anaugh, is $63,136.42 greater- than the
amount given to the University in 1947.
In addition to the cash gifts, Notre
Dame received numerous gifts of equip-
ment, publications, subscriptions and
other incidentals valued at thousands
of dollars.
Notre Dame alumni gave $451,898.28
of the total amount given to the Foun-
dation of which $280,881.81 was re-
stricted and $171,016.47 was unre-
stricted, Father Cavanaugh said. Of the
$163,041.14 contributed to Notre Dame
by friends of the University, $59,789.73
was restricted, and $103,251 was un-
restricted.
Achieves All-Time Record
Notre Dame, Ind.—A record number
of donors contributed more to the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame in 1949 than in
any other year during its history, it ||||||
was announced recently by the Rev.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President
of Notre Dame.
Father Cavanaugh announced that
8,675 donors contributed a total of
$1,924,541.67 to the University in 1949
for* building and other funds. In ad-
dition, Notre Dame received $407,305.70
in Research Fellowships and grants, and
gifts of capital equipment valued at
$84,800.
The Notre Dame president disclosed
that the University Science Building
Fund, which was the keynote of the 1949
fund drive, now totals $1,171,546.44.
Father Cavanaugh said that another
$915,634.64 still is needed to construct
and equip the Science Building.
Included among the gifts received dur-
ing 1949 by Notre Dame were $1,000,000
from Mrs. Fred J. Fisher, for a student
dormitory and a revolving student loan
fund; $100,000 from the I. A. O’Shaugh-
nessy Fine Arts Foundation; $69,000
from the Rockefeller Foundation for re-
search by the Committee on Interna-
tional Relations at Notre Dame; a
2,000,000-volt atom smasher valued at
$59,800 from the Atomic Energy Com-
mission; $40,000 from the William J.
Corbett Estate for the Mediaeval Li-
brary Fund; $31,000 from the Michael
P. Grace Trust for research in the
Mediaeval Institute at Notre Dame;
$25,000 from the Kresge Foundation for
a room in the proposed new Science
Building; and $25,000 from the Damon
Runyon Cancer Fund for cancer re- (i®
search in the Laboratories of Bacteri-
And in 1950
A NEW SCIENCE BUILDING, through
the generous benefactions of alumni and other interested
friends, for the training of moral, responsible scientists

Vol. 3
No. 2
27
eaBMMHBi
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS