The University of Notre Dame
UNDKRGRADUATE school
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology: Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music: Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering: Department of
Chemical Engineering: Department of Architecture: Department of Metallurgy: De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting: Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
The Arts and Letters Division « Department of Philosophy: Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology: Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics: Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division * Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
@ © o
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
The LOBUND Institute • Constitutes a research organization of full-time
'dentists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Biological Engi-
neering. which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of importance
to biology’ and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Department of Metallurgy at Notre Dame Offers Important Curricula
A WRINKLED old man in a black
robe placed the clay cup on the fire.
Then he stepped back; and the other
two men leaned forward intently as the
small block of metal in the cup began
to change color. Eagerly, they cooled
the block and examined the final product.
It was real gold!
There wasn’t anything miraculous
about this “gold-making” experiment,
though. 'The action could have taken
place in any alchemist’s den during the
14th century. What the awed spectators
didn’t realize was that the original
“lead” was a clever fake. The alchem-
ist had actually been working with a
heavy alloy of mercury-and-gold that
looked and felt like lead. When the
mercury boiled off, the stuff left in the
cup was real gold; and the alchemist
was in line for a neat “investment”
from his amazed guests.
What does all this prove? Just that
the study of metals is nothing new,
even though our present science of met-
allurgy is only a youngster.
Haphazard bits of experimental
knowledge like this had been piling up
since the beginning of the Bronze Age;
but little was done to organize the data
until about 50 years ago. In that half-
century, metallurgy has grown from a
handful of parlor tricks into the back-
bone of almost every mass-production in-
dustry in the world.
Notre Dame’s part in this amazing
Vol. 4 • No. I 3
*	This long control-panel operates Notre Dame's X-ray diffraction machine, used to
»	study details in metal less than I /100,000,000 of an inch long.
development dates back only half that
far; but its growth has been just as re-
markable. Twenty-five years ago, met-
allurgy was just a single course in
Notre Dame’s Department of Chemistry.
Now it is a department in itself, with
p, staff of five professors and fifteen
graduate assistants.
At the outset, ND metallurgists had
to use make-shift equipment assembled
from chemical apparatus. Today, they
have temperature-controlled electric fur-
naces . . . delicate equipment to measure
specimens within one-millionth of an
inch . . . precision instruments which re-
veal details a hundred times that small.
From the standpoint of general wel-
fare, it’s a good thing that Notre Dame’s
Department of Metallurgy has kept up
to date on equipment and theories. Met-
allurgy itself is out of the minor leagues
now. It’s vital to peacetime comforts as
well as to national security in time of
war; and well-trained metallurgists are
badly needed.
Metallurgy grads enter various fields
After a metallurgy student graduates
from Notre Dame, he may enter' a num-
ber of fields. His job may begin as soon
as some metallic ore is mined — whether
it’s iron, tin, zinc, or uranium. Here
metallurgy is called on to figure out the
best methods of separating the raw
metals from their compounds.
That doesn’t finish the job, though, be-
cause pure metals aren’t much good by
themselves. Some are too soft; some are
brittle; some can’t be molded into the
necessary shapes for tools and machine-
parts. The ND-trained metallurgist may
be asked to solve some of these difficul-
ties by preparing alloys — combinations
of different metals — with special prop-
erties to fit each use.
Finally, useful parts have to be
shaped from the big ingots that come
from the melting furnaces. And here’s
anothei' opportunity for a metallurgist.
It may be his job to find the most effi-
cient way of shaping the parts — some-
times by stamping, sometimes by rolling,
sometimes by casting into molds.
It’s a big complex series of jobs; and
it’s the aim of Notre Dame’s metallurgy
staff to prepare men properly to carry
them out.
The author has previously contributed
several articles for NOTRE DAME.
Maintaining a 9J scholastic average, he
will graduate in June, 1951. Mr. Dukert
is from Baltimore, Md. He has recently
zoritten an article for “The Sign” mag-
azine.
To make sure that its instructors put
emphasis on the right subjects in the
right way, the department holds fre-
quent seminars in conjunction with in-
dustrial firms and othei' university fac-
ulties. At these discussions, the men get
a chance to trade news about current
metallurgical progress and advice about
special teaching problems. Last spring,
one such technical session attracted
scientists from England and Canada, as
well as top scientists from this country.
According to Notre Dame officials,
these conferences have had a double
value so far. Besides bringing together
the results of recent research in the
field, they improve the quality of metal-
lurgy instruction by keeping the profes-
sors posted on fresh new ideas and
theories.
Techniques not stressed in classes
Nevertheless, the classes at Notre
Dame don’t stress techniques, although
every effort is made to interest the stu-
dents in modem developments. Technical
changes have come so fast that it’s im-
practical to fit all of them into the
courses; so Notre Dame’s courses simply
assure the students of a firm background
in fundamental knowledge. Basic prin-
ciples in metallurgy are emphasized
along with a thorough grounding in
physics and chemistry.
One place in which the department
does stay up to the minute, though, is in
its research activities. Using the most
modern equipment and methods, a num-
ber of faculty members are now carry-
ing on important scientific investiga-
tions for industry and the U. S. Armed
Forces.
Typical of these projects is one under
the direction of Professor Paul A. Beck,
head of the department. His research is
aimed at discovering new knowledge
about a change in metal structure called
“recrystallizations.”
You see, metals are built like every-
thing else — out of those tiny natui'al
building-blocks called “atoms.” In met-
als, however, the atoms are always ar-
ranged in a very special way — in
definite, characteristic crystals, which fit
together along irregular boundaries.
When the metal is stretched or squeezed,
ftach crystal adapts itself to the new
shape by sliding along internal planes.
When you pound on metal or roll it
under pressure, though, these crystals
g.et all out of shape. They don’t “slip”
as easily, and the metal becomes hard
and brittle.
One way to get the crystals back in
shape is by heating the metal. Upon
further heating, these new crystals (also
called “grains”) get bigger, until you
can actually see them with the naked
eye, and the metal becomes soft again.
The exact laws governing this grain-
growth are important. Manufacturers
would like to know them before they
start stamping out metal parts. They
want to know exactly how much heat a
partly-formed piece of metal will need
to make it soft enough for further
stamping. And it’s much easier to fol-
low definite standards than it is to con-
duct separate tests on each new alloy
and part.
Research for Armed Forces
For war production, this knowledge
would bring tremendous savings in
time, money, and material. That’s why
the Office of Naval Research has de-
cided to sponsor Professoi' Beck’s work
in this field.
In studying gram-growth and re-crys-
tallization, one important tool is X-ray
diffraction. This process .enables Dr.
Bernard Cullity and other Notre Dame
investigators to study the positions of
atoms and other details only
1/100,000,000 of an meh in size. They
don’t really see the atoms, but they do
get an accurate picture of where they
are. Here’s how the big gadget works:
Although X-rays are used, they aren’t
used in the same way a doctor employs
them to study a patient ... or the way
industries use them to inspect metal
parts for defects. In the metallurgy de-
4
Notre Dame
One of the ND researchers checks a metal sample for high polish before examining it
under a high power microscope.
partment, the rays are directed through
a metal sample onto a photographic
plate. Some go straight through, hut
others are deflected by the planes of the
metal crystals. By measuring the angles
at which the rays are bent the research-
ers are able to reconstruct the actual
positions of the atoms which caused
the deflection.
Some of the other research projects
at Notre Dame are probably easier for
a non-scientist to grasp; but the methods
are still pretty spectaculai'.
Titanium is new miracle-metal
Take the work of Professor E. A.
Peretti, for instance. He’s helping to
chart the possibilities of a new miracle-
metal called “titanium.” Strong as iron,
titanium is only about half as heavy,
and is almost completely impervious to
rust. There’s plenty of titanium ore
around, too; although the process of ex-
traction is still difficult and expensive.
Many have suggested that it would make
a perfect structural metal for airplanes;
and in fact Professor Peretti is working
now under a grant from the Air Ma-
teriel Command of the U. S. Air Force.
At Notre Dame, various alloys of iron
and titanium are being prepared and
tested to determine their suitability for
various strategic uses. 'The actual mak-
ing of these alloys is really a spectacle
of fireworks, too. It’s done with a tung-
sten arc, which melts the iron and ti-
tanium together at 3400 degrees Fahren-
heit! Only a special system of water-
cooled coils keeps the copper container
from melting along with the alloy at this
terrific temperature.
Temperature at 321 degrees below zero
If the details of these ultra-hot experi-
ments have you perspiring a little, you
can always take a quick look at Profes-
sor B. S. Lement’s work. Just a few
hundred feet from the white-hot molten
alloy, Dr. Lement is busy at work on an
apparatus that lowers the temperature
of metals to 321 degrees below zero.
This device — which employs liquefied
nitrogen gas as a cooling agent — is
used to study the formation of “marten-
site” in cold steel.
Martensite is a hard substance that
forms when iron and carbon are heated
together and then cooled quickly in
water. It’s the stuff that puts the
strength in steel. Recent investigations
show that it can also be formed at ex-
tremely low temperatures, and this is
the subject of Dr. Lement’s studies.
Another Notre Dame research project
is based on the next step in steelmaking
— the tempering process. Since steel is
brittle after its quenching bath, it has
to be reheated or “tempered” foi’ a short
while at a comparatively low tempera-
ture to gain toughness. Sometimes,
however, the action backfires, and tem-
pering just makes the steel more brittle.
So far, nobody seems to know W’hy this
happens; but data now being compiled
by careful tests at Notre Dame may
some day lead to a solution.
This research is carried on entirely in
a special room, where a temperature of
exactly 70 degrees is kept at all times.
This constant temperature is necessary
to pi'event error in the delicate machine
used there to measure minute changes
in the length of steel samples during the
tempering process. This apparatus can
detect changes down to a millionth of an
inch; and every step must be taken to
assure perfect accuracy.
There are other precision instruments
in the Department of Metallurgy, and
there is other research work; hut these
are the highlights. They are typical of
the manner in which the whole depart-
ment is building and growing.
Men recognized and used metals for
many centuries before the science of
metallurgy came along to open up vast
new possibilities for him. Metallurgy at
Notre Dame was a “late starter” too.
Anybody can see, though, that the
science is still growing fast. And Notre
Dame is proud of the fact that its de-
partment is growing along with it.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, at Notre Dame,
Indiana. Entered as second class
matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office
of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the
Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing
Editor.
Contributors' views do not necessar-
ily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in
this magazine should be addressed
to the Editor.
Vol. 4 No. 1, Winter, 1951
Vol. 4
No. I
5
Notre Dame Again Ready to Aid in Emergency
TN AN ERA of changing crises, it is
difficult in a page of this nature to
advise you confidently of our progress
and our plans for 1951.
I can, and do most sincerely, wish
that for you and all our world, the year
may lift its impending shadows and re-
veal some pattern for peace.
Gratitude Expressed for 1950 Support
And certainly I can, and again do
with deepest gratitude, express our ap-
preciation here at Notre Dame for the
generous support and the deepening in-
terest in our problems that 1950 re-
corded, in our books, and in our hearts.
As you know, the urgency of our
needs impelled us to begin construction
of the Science Building. And because of
its need, and its great significance to the
campus, we also started construction on
the Morris Inn.
Subsequent conditions have become so
grave that at the moment we are not
able to predict our action on the con-
struction of the generously provided —
and also urgently needed—O’Shaugh-
nessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building,
and the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Me-
morial Residence Hall. If it is not out
of line with the program of national
safety, we hope that both these build-
ings will be begun in 1951.
Utilities Expansion Urgently Needed
Urgent in our program not yet pro-
vided for, and emphasized with a new
urgency by the generous gifts of 1950,
is the expansion of our utilities to pro-
vide heat, water, light and power, and
sewage disposal for the campus. Exist-
ing heat and water facilities have been
stretched to even their far-sighted ca-
pacities by our present expansion, and
will not accommodate further strain.
Light and power, and sewage disposal
have become problems through local an-
alyses and legislation which involve
major decisions of economy on the one
hand, and legislated provision on the
other, from which we have no recourse.
The proposed programs, as Father
John Murphy has outlined in Notre
Dame and the Notre Dame Alumnus,
will cost us approximately $3,800,000.
And this figure does not solve for us
the constantly rising costs of general
operation, with which all of you are
familiar through business, factory and
even home experience.
It may be that the stabilization trends
will halt to some extent the rising tide
of costs. But as you know from our
previous presentations, our income has
been hard pressed to keep these costs
in sight.
Without our auxiliary operations and
the generosity of our friends, we would
have faced much sooner either the cur-
tailment of our program or the sharp
and generally unfavored increase of stu-
dent costs.
Campus Facilities Used in WW II
As it is, unless the prevalent “freeze”
should reach the warm hearts of our
alumni and friends, we anticipate a con-
tinuing operation without recourse to
higher costs to students, so that deserv-
ing young men from everywhere may
still enjoy the training of Notre Dame.
Perhaps more importantly, in this
critical period of history, we hope that
we may be as ready as we were in 1941
to provide for our country not only the
corps of men trained in the richest fun-
damentals of American democracy, but
also a physical plant in which the mili-
tary training of much needed additional
personnel may be effected with a mini-
mum of time, construction and expense
to the country.
Our campus, which provided the train-
ing in World War II for the commis-
sioning of 10,000 ensigns in the midship-
man program of the United States Navy,
is now even more adequately prepared
for whatever physical part it may be
called upon to play.
God, Country, Notre Dame
And the spirit of Notre Dame, always
in complete harmony with the spirit of
America, has a deeper significance in
the present struggle against forces
which are bent upon the destruction of
the particulai' common roots from which
that spirit springs — a belief in God,
and in the unalienable rights of man
with which that God has endowed him.
Notre Dame plans not only to survive
in this crisis, but by prayer and your
constant help to remain in this vital
hour a contributing fountain of strength
for the survival of all.
Director of the Foundation
6
Notre Dame
PLACEMENT
BLREAE
By William B. Booley
AITHAT we are trying to do in the
' Placement Bureau is help a man
help himself.
We know that even in the most favor-
able circumstance we can’t really get a
job for the individual (and in that sense
“placement” is a misnomer). In the
final analysis, and when all the employ-
ment cards are down, he has to get his
own job. But we in the Placement Bu-
reau can give him some very substantial
along-the-way help, and that is exactly
what we are trying to do.
Formally or informally, placement has
always been a part of Notre Dame. In-
numerable persons, of the faculty par-
ticularly, have given (and are giving)
of their time to assist students and
alumni with regard to employment. But
early in 1950 centralized, coordinated
placement was established as the full-
time activity of one office at Notre
Dame. New quarters for the Placement
Bureau were officially opened in the Ad-
ministration Building on April 13, just
after the Easter vacation.
Members of the faculty still remain,
and will always remain, an indispens-
able factor in the placement procedure
at Notre Dame. Their advisory relation-
ship with the students, their advice and
all-around help in the operation of the
central Placement Bureau and their own
contacts with prospective employers pro-
vide the support without which we in
the Bureau could not coordinate details
and, in fact, could not even function.
With such aid from the faculty, the
Placement Bureau arranged in October,
November and December, 1950, for
numerous employment interviews on the
campus for scores of students. Employ-
ment demands resulting from the arma-
ment program brought industrial repre-
sentatives to the campus earlier in the
schoolyear than ever before. And the
interviewing schedule has been much
heavier since January.
But we’re really ahead of the story.
The interviews by industrial representa-
tives are just one phase, although an im-
portant phase, of the service that the
Placement Bureau offers.
Placement at Notre Dame goes back
What about a job? Mr. Johnson ex-
amines a Placement Bureau bulletin.
The author is Placement Director at
the University of Notre Dame. He
graduated from Notre Dame in 1926
and for sixteen years was assistant
alumni secretary and managing editor
of the “Alumnus” magazine. After
receiving his degree and before return-
ing to Notre Dame in 1933, Mr. Dooley
was a reporter for the Peoria (III.)
“Journal-Transcript” as well as adver-
tising and publicity director for the
Northern Indiana Public Service Co.
.3 •
actually to the days just before the new
student comes to the campus to begin his
freshman year. In that period he re-
ceives from the Testing and Guidance
Department, headed by Edward R.
Quinn, a Notre Dame graduate in ’28,
a questionnaire in which he is asked to
detail his academic program in high
school, his “strong” subjects, his high
school extra-curricular activities and
something of his ambitions for his Uni-
versity work.
Then in the first few days after the
freshman actually reaches the campus,
the Testing and Guidance Department
gives him a series of six standardized
tests designed to measure some of his
academic accomplishments, aptitudes and
interests. These tests, the results of
• which are available both to parents and
students, are in the following areas:
(1) The Social Sciences; (2) 'The Nat-
ural Sciences; (3) The Mathematical
Sciences; (4) English Achievement; (5)
Scholastic Aptitude; (6) Educational
and Vocational Interests.
Mr. Quinn, and Rev. Thomas P.
Irving, C.S.C., ’04, Richard D. Willemin,
’42 and Orville R. Renner of the Testing
and Guidance staff, are available to all
students, and particularly to freshmen,
for assistance with regard to study pro-
grams, study habits, vocational selection
and other kindred subjects. Utilizing
the previously filled-out questionnaire,
the freshman test results and any sub-
sequent tests which are deemed neces-
sary, these advisors provide for the stu-
Mr. Johnson confers with Wm. R. Dooley,
director of the Placement Bureau.
The services of the Placement Bureau
are explained by Mr. Dooley.
Vol. 4
No. I
7
Mr. Williams, of Personnel Division,
Studebaker Corp., interviews applicant.
Interview continues with Mr. Bagley,
Director of Studebaker Corp., District
Managers' School.
Subsequently employed Mr. Johnson is
a Studebaker sales trainee.
dent what is of specific impoitance to
the Placement Bureau, a tie-up between
the present college life and the eventual,
after-college occupation.
The Placement Bureau has its offices
next door to the Testing and Guidance
Department and works in the closest co-
operation with it. The test results, the
advisory notes and similar informa-
tional material accumulated as the result
of the service of Mr. Quinn and his
associates are all utilized by the Place-
ment Bureau in placement counseling.
For placement, properly conceived and
integrated, is not a separate function
within a University but is a part, and in
a sense the culmination, of the school’s
testing and guidance, both educational
and vocational. Ideally, if a student has
carefully planned his educational pro-
gram, his extra-curricular activities, his
part-time and summer work, as well as
his general investigation, reading and
thinking with regard to a lifetime occu-
pation, he should come up to his actual
job search needing only general place-
ment counseling in order to choose the
job that is right for him.
The fact of course is that few stu-
dents, at Notre Dame or elsewhere,
reach this ideal state of things and that
is one reason why the Placement Bureau
is so busy.
It perhaps need not be emphasized
here that there are few things more im-
portant this side of heaven than that the
individual human being find for him-
self the lifetime occupation that is right
for him. Much of his happiness in this
life, and in the next too, much of the
good that he can do for society, his
family and himself, much of the benefit
from his college education, channel from
his job. If his job is right, he is all the
more likely to live a genuinely success-
ful and happy life.
Placement service at Notre Dame is
available to senior students and gradu-
ate students (as well as to alumni) all
through the schoolyear. All colleges and
departments of the University are cover-
ed. Individual registration and coun-
seling are supplemented in the Place-
ment Bureau by varied, appropriate
books, magazines, pamphlets and mime-
ographed material available to all stu-
dents. A large and growing file of com-
pany literature and regional literature
(from Chambers of Commerce) is on
hand and is widely used. We also offer
printing service, picture service and
mimeographing service when, as often
happens, the student wants to communi-
cate with numerous prospective employ-
ers.
Individual counseling is necessarily
limited by time and personnel. In an
attempt to bring more placement aid to
more students, the Placement Bureau is
conducting this year, in conjunction with
Professor Christopher Fagan, of the
Economics Department of the Univer-
sity, an experimental seminar on occupa-
tions and job-finding techniques. The
participants in this seminar, 27 Econ-
omics majors, mostly seniors; are volun-
tarily gathering once a week without
academic credit for an hour of study and
discussion in the employment area. All
of the students in this voluntary pro-
gram are submitting written material
such as qualification records and letters,
for class criticism, a clinical, cooperative
procedure. Visiting representatives from
industrial and other personnel offices on
occasion speak informally to the group.
If this experimental group counseling
procedure is successful, it can in time be
extended to other groups within the Uni-
versity. The participants should eventu-
ally be not only seniors and graduate
students but juniors as well, and maybe
sophomores.
THE PICTURE STORY
At Notre Dame every year scores
of employers conduct interviews
with hundreds of students. Typical
of this activity are the Studebaker
Corporation of South Bend and
Thomas M. Johnson, who received
his A.B. as a Philosophy major in
June, 1950. The process by which
Mr. Johnson was employed as a
Studebaker sales trainee is out-
lined in the accompanying pictures.
The emphasis on counseling, whether
individual or group, with the objective
of helping a man help himself, does not
of course diminish the importance of
campus interviews by employers. In fact,
we are convinced that in proportion as
the student knows himself, knows what
he wants to do and knows something
about finding a proper job for himself
he will be of increasing interest to the
men who interview him, on the campus
and off, and will result in being a more
valued employe.
Interviewers in all classifications from
all parts of the country are coming to
the Notre Dame campus in increasing
numbers. Knowing in advance (at least
two weeks in advance if possible) the
personnel needs of the companies, we
arrange interview schedules and have
the student interviewees read the com-
pany literature and fill out the company
qualification records. Interviews nor-
mally are on the basis of 20 or 30
minutes per man.
While the interviews are usually con-
ducted in the special interview rooms of
(Continued on Page 22)
8
Notre Dame


Our Lady’s
Embroiderer
By Ken Thoren
TpVERYONE knows the story of the
humble juggler who tossed his hats,
rings and bells for Our Lady because it
was the best way he knew of to show his
devotion. However, few people are
aware that a modern counterpart of this
story is being enacted daily on the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame campus. The
gift being offered, though, is not jug-
gling but embroidery.
Our Lady’s embroiderer is Pastor
Villaflor, a little, talented Filipino who
came to Notre Dame in 1905 . . . and
stayed.
From his room where he bends over
the embroidery rack, slowly stitching his
beautiful liturgical vestments, Pastor
can look over at the Grotto and up at
the shining Lady on top of the golden
dome. His is a quiet life. In fact, it
is so quiet that relatively few on the
University campus know he even exists.
Those who have seen him have either
caught a quick glimpse of the diminutive
Filipino as they passed his ground-floor
window in Corby Hall or else have seen
him when he comes out occasionally to
take a breath of air or work in his small
garden.
Pastor doesn’t need to be surrounded
by people to be happy. He never attends
Saturday night movies in Washington
Hall, the Notre Dame auditorium, or
athletic events in the Fieldhouse. Long
ago he gave up going to football games.
As for nearby South Bend, he says:
“Oh, no, I haven’t been in the city for
many years. Once, though, I go there
lately. I almost forget.
“When I hear the plight of my people
right after the war, I went, with a
Brother, to buy some things. But I get
sick in the store and have to come back.
Have never been to town since.
“Now Brothers and students go buy
the things I want. I send over $2,000
worth of articles to Philippines. My
people need things—still, and I have no
use for the money.”
But Pastor is certainly no recluse. He
likes nothing better than to talk with
friends. He is a pleasant man with
an affable personality. His speech still
has a heavy trace of lyrical Spanish in
it. It is hard to realize he is nearly
70. He is small, less than five feet,
erect, and he moves with a kitten’s
quickness. His fingers are long and he
uses them constantly while talking like
a person making wall shadows for chil-
dren. His skin is a rich walnut color
with an almost electric glow about it
and he has a wide wholesome smile.
His eyes are mere dots behind metal,
thin-rimmed glasses but they twinkle
brightly—especially when he is reliving
the past. He wears a butcher’s apron
with Pastor embroidered in blue across
the top.
Right after attending Mass each
morning he puts on the apron and then
spends the day reading papers or letters
from the Islands, playing solitaire, car-
ing for the small garden outside his
window in warm weather and embroider-
ing his beautiful garments for Notre
Dame’s main church, Sacred Heart.
Like the legendary juggler, he looks
upon his work as an act of devotion.
Pastor’s craft is an art, handed down
in the Villaflor family for centuries. It
is delicate work and has restricted him
The author is a senior, majoring in
Journalism and will graduate in June,
1951 zvith an A.B. degree. He is editor-
in-chief of the “Scholastic,” student
news weekly at Notre Dame. Mr. Thoren
zvorked as a student assistant in the
Notre Dame Sports Publicity Depart-
ment last summer. During the 1950
football season he wrote various features
for the “South Bend Tribune.” His
home is in New Rochelle, N. Y.
to do less of it during the past few
years. He first designs all the vest-
ments—a Latin flavor permeates them
for they are distinguished by bright
colors and rich patterns — and then
traces the drawings on to material.
Agonizing hours of meticulous sewing
follows.
Right now Pastor is working on a
Benediction veil and has almost com-
pleted a cluster of grapes in the pattern.
Each tiny grape is the size of a dime and
is shaded in many hues of purple
threads. He hopefully expects to finish
Mr. Villaflor.
the garment within four
months. “I
can’t do much at a time, any more;
tears get in my eyes—I must stop.”
Some of Pastor’s vestments were
exhibited at the St. Louis Exposition, in
1904, and at the Chicago World’s Fair,
in 1933. He has embroidered the most
treasured vestments used at Notre
Dame. As much as $5,000 has been
offered for a single piece of work. But
he never sells them. “I do not need
money and more important, they are my
gifts to Our Lady.”
When people ask Pastor why he con-
tinues to do such painstaking work, his
answer is always the same. “Our Bless-
ed Mother, She has been very good to
me. The only way I can repay Her is
by making these robes. I love what I
do. I have good education but I could
not be happy at anything else. There’s
a feeling down here—it tells me She
likes my work.”
Pastor lives alone in a narrow, clut-
tered room on the ground-floor of Corby
Hall where many of Notre Dame’s Con-
gregation of Holy Cross priests reside.
Souvenirs and memorabilia stuff the
combination living quarters and work-
shop. Walls, shelves, tables and cabinets
are weighed down with things Pastor
has collected through the years.
His love foi' flowers is apparent. They
fill the room as much as they fill his
pieces of embroidery. Many bouquets
shine against the amber walls—velvet
and paper flowers and fresh-cut blooms
from the Notre Dame greenhouse.
Just enough space is left free to allow
passage to a small wooden table near
the room’s one window. It is here that
Pastor likes to sit and talk or else pass
his free time playing solitaire.
Off in one corner is his embroidery
rack. Whenever “tears in his eyes” make
(Continued on Page 17)
1
I
Vol. 4 • No. I
UTILITIES And Notre Dame
University Urgently Needs Aid in Expansion of Steam Plant and Other Facilities
By Rev. John H. Murphy, c.s.c.
Plant engineer checks control valve in
campus 3-mile underground tunnel
system.
The University of Notre Dame was
almost sixty years of age before its
residents came to know the blessings of
central heating. The first plant, erected
in 1899, would be judged crude and
primitive according to present stand-
ards; but its designers were so pleased
with their creation that a scale model
was dispatched to the Paris Exposition
of 1900.
In the summer of 1932 the stack of
this plant was brought crashing down
to prepare the way for the Students’
Infirmary building; the University’s pri-
vate railroad station was razed at the
same time, and for the same purpose.
A few months earlier Notre Dame had
acquired a new heating plant.
Again the last word in efficiency of
design and operation, its four huge boil-
ers sent steam surging through an elab-
orate network of tunnels to the far
reaches of the campus. There was con-
siderable satisfaction in the thought
that, while repairs and alterations would
have from time to time to be made, the
new plant was geared to handle Notre
Dame’s future expansion program.
Father Murphy is Vice-President in
Charge of Public Relations at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame. He wrote an
article entitled “A $7,893,000 Qiiestion”
in the Summer, 1950 edition of NOTRE
DAME.
That was eighteen years ago. In the
interval Notre Dame’s student body
grew from 3,000 to more than 5,000
young men; there was a corresponding
increase in the number of priests and
lay faculty members. Some twenty-five
new buildings were constructed, and
steam tunnels were lengthened. Still,
Brothei’ Irenaeus, c.s.c., and after him
Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., managed to
keep the student body and faculty rea-
sonably comfortable and happy.
In the course of the years improve-
ments and economies were effected. A
mobile crane was purchased at second-
hand, several thousands of tons of coal
were stockpiled, and the student body
learned to their dismay that school
would keep open in spite of frequent
and prolonged strikes at the mines.
One of the Brothers devised a unique
system of lights whereby plant engineers
would know at all times whether steam
were passing through the giant reducer
valves into the various classroom and
dormitory buildings. Installation of a
central control system which permits the
heat to be turned on or off and tempera-
tures regulated in any building on the
campus from a central panel in the
plant, cut fuel costs approximately
$61,000 in the little more than two
years it has been operating.
The University’s water department is
also operated by steam plant personnel.
Three deep wells for drinking water and
one for utility purposes are kept in
constant operation, supplying the one
million gallons that Notre Dame requires
daily; in summer daily consumption rises
to 1,500,000 gallons.
A pipe line from St. Joseph’s Lake
feeds water into a separate system of
mains for fire protection. Pressure on
this system is maintained at seventy-five
pounds, but Brother Borromeo, C.S.C.,
who doubles in brass as chief of the
University’s up-to-the-minute fire de-
partment, can order pump pressures in-
creased to one hundred and twenty-five
pounds.
State officials, who long have looked
with disfavor* on this three-way system
of water supply, recently decreed that
the University must convert to a single
system whereby potable water shall be
used even in the utility and fire protec-
tion mains. This will necessitate exten-
sive changes in the existing network of
mains, the dropping of another well, in-
stallation of machinery to remove iron
from the drinking water, and erection
of a 500,000 gallon water tower, a neces-
sary — but by no means attractive —
addition to Notre Dame’s skyline.
A firm of consulting engineers was
brought in to sketch out the new water
system. And because fifteen to twenty
years is considered the normal life span
of boilers and other heating equipment
without extensive alterations, they were
asked to examine our heating needs as
well.
Still a third feature was incorporated
Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., chief engineer,
talks with assistant in steam plant.
10
Notre Dame
in their study. Our plant employees, as
though they had not already enough
work to do, had long argued that gen-
eration of oui- own electric power would
represent a further economy for the
University. Waste steam could be util-
ized for this purpose, through installa-
tion of several steam turbines; and two
diesel generators obtained from the War
Assets Administration would serve as
stand-by units.
The University is presently using elec-
tricity at the rate of 6,010,000 kilowatt
hours annually, and our demand will rise
tremendously wtih completion of the new
Science Building alone. Compare that
with youi’ annual household needs!
The three-way study was completed.
Plans for the new water system were
drawn up and approved. The contention
of oui’ plant engineers that it would be
more economical to generate our own
power than to continue purchasing it,
was borne out. The initial cost of con-
struction and installation (approximate-
ly $600,000) could be written off over a
twenty-year period, increased operating
expenses absorbed, and the University
still would save from ten to fifteen thou-
sand dollars a year. Minimal neces-
sary improvements and repairs to the
eighteen-year-old heating system were
computed, and found to be considerable.
And then the blow fell! A heating
plant which less than twenty years be-
fore had been constructed to take care
of all future expansion, now was de-
scribed as totally inadequate — even
after the recommended improvements.
Brother Beatus, C.S.C., at control system
which has saved $61,000 in last
two years.
At best it would handle only two more
buildings. Not even the four for which
working drawings and funds have al-
ready been received, and two of which
have already been started. To say noth-
ing of the additional dormitories, the
student union, field house, maintenance
building, etc., the need for which has
been apparent to all for a long while.
In all fairness it must be said that no
one twenty years ago could have fore-
seen that at the mid-century mark Notre
Dame’s population would be in excess of
5,000. Had they been able to foresee it,
then it would also have been apparent
that not even twenty-five new buildings
would be enough to house and feed, to
educate and recreate, this huge family.
The estimated cost of these alterations
and enlargements is $1,500,000! That is
already $100,000 higher than the figure
given in the last issues of the Alumnus
and of Notre Dame. The page on which
these needs were listed — along with
others which may be treated in a future
article — was appropriately titled “Go-
ing UP!” The composer was merely be-
ing prophetic, not facetious. And if
present trends continue, there may have
to be still further revisions upward.
Unfortunately, there is no choice left
us in the matter of these alterations. If
we wish properly to care for the physical
welfare of our students — and we do —
we must accept the recommendations of
the consulting engineers. And if we wish
to go ahead even with our immediate
building program — again, the answer is
in the affirmative—we must act on these
recommendations at once. There is no
alternative left us; next year will be
too late.
Where is the money to come from for
these urgent needs? That is a question
which still puzzles the President of the
University and his Council. In all proba-
bility we cannot expect large sums for
this project from individual donors; it
does not carry the appeal of a radiation
chemistry laboratory, or of a library
building.
But we may hope to realize the neces-
sary funds through the generosity of our
many alumni and of the parents of oui'
students, past and present. They are
close enough to the University to see our
domestic problems most clearly, and to
appreciate them.
Too, w.e may count on the generous
cooperation of Notre Dame Foundation
governors, chairmen and committeemen
who are continually bringing new friends
into the Notre Dame family. No contri-
bution from these friends and alumni is
too small, because the number of poten-
tial benefactors is so enormous. You
might count them for yourselves just
within the circle of your acquaintances.
Father Sorin founded this University
of Our Lady with four hundred dollars
in his pockets, and in his heart a spirit
of indomitable faith in his Heavenly
Patroness. It would be unthinkable that
oui’ faith in Her should be less strong,
who have but to look around us and see
the miracles She has already worked!
Pumper operations are explained to local
■fire fighters as Belle, the mascot,
attentively looks on.
Author’s Note:
Since the above article was writ-
ten, the University’s consulting en-
gineers have informed the adminis-
tration that approximately twenty
percent would have to be added to
their $1,500,000 estimate.
The cost of constructing the new
Science Building and of equipping
its undergraduate laboratories—to-
gether with a portion of its research
facilities, will top original estimates
by $700,000. And increased costs of
building and furnishing the Inn
may run as high as $500,000.
Work has begun on the Science
Building and the Inn before the
most recent price increases. And
the utilities problem is one which
must be met whatever the cost.
None of this money is on hand. All
of it must be raised in the face of
rising operating costs and of dras-
tic cuts in sources of income, with
the very real prospect of a drop in
student enrolhnent to the 1925
level. Here is a major challenge to
oui* faith—and good works!
Vol. 4
No. I
Excerpts From Father O*Hara’s
"Religious Bulletin"
The exodus of freshmen from the basement chapel immedi-
ately after the Communion of the Mass indicates the hickory
Catholics still abound in this country. For the benefit of these
men it is solemnly announced that it is not a mortal sin to re-
main for the priest's blessing, and not even a venial sin to
remain for the Last Gospel... .
Progress
It isn’t only the freshmen who make the mistake of regarding
school as merely a preparation for life. It IS life, the only life
some of you will know. It is a rare and singular favor to go
through an entire school year without the death of a student. It
is safe to predict that this year will be no exception . . . one or
more of us will take the final examination. It behooves us to
make the most of the day.
Notre Dame football has done more than any one thing to
spread devotion to frequent Communion among the school boys
of America.
(Tenth, and last, in a series of articles on
the history of the University, based on
“Notre Dame, One Hundred Years,” by
Rev. Arthur Hope, C.S.C.)
A review of certain events of the past week is in order. It
should remain just between ourselves. You have done some
things wiselyt some unwisely. You took the hint (delivered with
a brick, of course) that the University was offering two. Novenas
of Masses for your departed relatives and friends, and the list
of names handed in increased 400%.
Candles at the Grotto . . . perhaps a hundred . . . still burn- '
ing at 11:00 p.m.. .. exams? You wouldn’t think so to look at
the spotted records in hall chapels these mornings ... and the
team needing prayers...
~	I
This week’s red hat (two classes) will be conferred on those,
lay cardinals who have announced that they have seen ’’The
Sign of the Cross” and find nothing wrong with it. A feather in
the hat will distinguish the candidates whose simple innocence
blinded them to the filth of this picture; a button (or perhaps	i
three or four buttons) will be worn by those of depraved taste.	j
- I
'VTOTRE DAME administrations had
enjoyed most of the familiar attri-
butes, of the priest, the scholar, the man
of common sense, the man of vision, in
fact all of the good things that God so
often sees fit to supply in lieu of ex-
perience.
It remained for a young man with the
restlessness of the Latin and Irish ways
of life, the experience of a cosmopolite,
and the grass roots techniques of his
Hoosiei' background, to bring about a
truly effective and lasting liaison be-
tween the campus of a modest religious
university and the business thinking,
and the men who were doing this think-
ing, in America.
Father John F. O’Hara received his A
start in Ann Arbor, Michigan — within |!
two months, however, of being a born ji
Indianan. When he was 17, his father |
was appointed consul at Montevideo,
Uruguay. For three years he attended
schools and worked in the exciting
world of Uruguay and the Argentine,
developing a keen appreciation and a
sincere friendship for the Latin-Amer-
icas.
After finishing college at Notre Dame
in 1911, he answered his vocation and
was ordained in 1916. After special
preparation, he began at Notre Dame
in the fall of 1917 the first four-year
*Father O’Hara was appointed Titular Bishop of
Milasa in December, 1939, and joined the Military
Ordinanate of the United States in January, 1941.
12
Notre Dame
r at Notre Dame
In a Difficult Era
Rev. John F. O'Hara (1934-1939*). Joins the
Forces of Notre Dame and American Business
Methods and Leaders to Develop University
course in foreign commerce in an Amer-
ican University.
To many alumni, it is even more sig-
nificant that in 1918 he became Prefect
of Religion, when Father Charles L.
O’Donnell became a chaplain in the
U. S. Army.
Because no one will ever settle satis-
factorily the great question whether
Father John O’Hara did more for Notre
Dame in establishing its College of
Commerce, or in guiding the magnificent
religious program of its World War I
and post-war student religious life. Both
contributions are monumental, and have
obscured many other contributions of his
tenure, immediate and long-range.
Certainly, the personal preference is
for the friendly, practical, sharp priest
who was always available to the student
for spiritual advice that seemed custom-
built for its time, and for its clientele.
The Religious Bulletin, which he
founded and edited, became a pattern
for those engaged in the religious guid-
ance of youth. Not content with his
day-to-day influence on the student, he
launched the first religious survey of
students and alumni, testing the logical
lasting effects of Notre Dame education.
The searching survey was of mutual
benefit to campus and to alumni.
Daily Communion flourished under his
administrative genius, without any of
the pious threats or emotional stimu-
lants that missionary zeal sometimes
produces. The Holy Eucharist became in
a real way the Bread of Life to thou-
sands of young men each day, an ex-
ample of a humble but virile Catho-
licity that has been ever since the shin-
ing case history in hundreds of schools
and homes. The fact that Father
O’Hara and his staff made confession
available in the hall chapels nightly, and
Communion available not only at the
Hall Masses but in other chapels until
noon daily, was the contribution of a
good businessman to his religious con-
victions.
Notre Dame was not yet ready, nor
was the nation, for approaching the in-
evitable financial liaison between the pri-
vate school and its philanthropic friends.
But Father O’Hara saw this situation
shaping, and made many friends through
his keen insight into business and its
problems. Many of these friends in sub-
sequent years have shown a reciprocal
interest in the problems of his Univer-
sity.
Biology Building
Father O’Hara was made vice-presi-
dent of Notre Dame in 1933, and was
active president during the long illness
of Fathei’ Charles O’Donnell, succeeding
to the presidency in 1934.
For a man of unusual business acu-
men, it may seem strange that one of
the great objectives of Father O’Hara
as president was the development of the
Graduate School. This school is, of com-
mon knowledge, and common experience
elsewhere, the heaviest of the institu-
tion’s financial burdens. But Father
O’Hara saw in it the rich contributions
to Church and society and to students,
the rise in University prestige, the con-
gregating of scholars, and the interest-
ing of business and industry and gov-
ernment. LOBUND is one of the fruits
of his faith and of his enthusiasm for
the work of Prof. Reyniers and his staff.
Many other departments instituted the
doctorate, and priests were sent to study
for graduate teaching and research. The
Review of Politics is testimonial to his
appreciation of the learned publication
ns a proper part of higher education.
Many European scholars, fleeing from
the Nazi and Fascist and Communist
persecutions, found a welcome at Notre
Dame soon reflected in the radiation of
a high scholarship in many of the new
graduate fields of study.
That all study required adequate
housing is evident in Father O’Hara’s
building program which included three
new residence halls of a permanent, tra-
ditional style — Cavanaugh, Zahm and
Breen-Phillips — and several other sig-
nificant buildings including the Biology
Building, the new Post Office and the In-
firmary.. He also brought to successful
completion the Rockne Memorial.
His retirement to become Bishop and
Military Delegate, and his subsequent
appointment as Bishop of Buffalo, are
rtill writing the same rich history in
broader fields that fills the pages of the
years in which he was so much a part
of Notre Dame.
Vol. 4
No. I
13
The Notre Dame Band is a leading attraction at all home football games.
A momentary hush falls over the sta-
dium; the football teams have re-
turned to the locker rooms after the
pre-game warm-up; suddenly the public
address blares: “Ladies and gentlemen—
The University of Notre Dame Band.”
The Marching Band begins a perform-
ance which, combined with other ap-
pearances, makes it the most active
organization on the Notre Dame cam-
pus.
The total of annual appearances num-
bers about sixty, including: five or six
football games, eight team rallies and
send-offs, a dozen basketball games, a
track meet or two, several military re-
views for Navy and Air Corps B.O.T.C.
units, banquets, commencement, South
Bend parades and the annual concerts
complete the list.
The 1950 football season marked a
deliberate attempt to adapt marching
band shows to television techniques, re-
sulting in fewer picture formations and
more movement, with the emphasis on
footwork and marching routines. Also,
care was taken to provide material for
TV cameras with their close-up shots.
The success of the attempt to please the
TV audience was best measured by the
“fan-mail”, which increased twenty-fold
over previous years. The 1950 trips of
the football Marching Band were to the
Navy game in Cleveland, and to the
Tulane game in New Orleans.
In addition to football trips, the Con-
cert Band takes extended tours each
spring to make the Notre Dame Band
perhaps the most widely traveled college
band in the U. S. In recent years the
band has traveled in 30 states present-
ing 84 concerts from Connecticut and
The author has been director of Univer-
sity bands for 9 years. He received a
Bachelor of Music degree from James
Millikin University in 1936 and a Master
of Music degree from University of
Michigan four yea/rs later.
Pick Up
Those
Feet
by
H. Lee Hope
More than sixty annual appearances makes the band the most active organization on campus.
The Concert Band has played in 30 states the past few years.
Massachusetts, to Wyoming and Colo-
rado, and from Michigan to Florida.
These tours are financed by guaranteed
contracts signed with sponsors in the
various cities. The sponsors generally
have several reasons for bringing the
Notre Dame Band into their city: first,
the University and the Band are so well
known that audiences are attracted,
making the appearance a profitable ven-
ture for the local committees; second,
many sponsors like to offer the group to
the public as a public service to the
community; third, and perhaps most
important is the fact that presenting
the Notre Dame Band in a community
brings a great amount of prestige to the
sponsor, raising the standing of the
organization in the community.
The bookings for the tour are made
almost a year in advance, however, there
are a few open dates left in the Easter
tour of 1951. The tour will go East
through Ohio, Pennsylvania, New York,
the New England states and tentatively
to Toronto and Windsor, Ontario.
Pre-game football rallies are led by the freshman band.
The Four Horsemen team, back for their 25th reunion, are given
a special salute by the ND Band.
Additional information about annual
concert tours of the Notre Dame Band
may be obtained by addressing: Mr. H.
Lee Hope, Director, Notre Dame Band,
Notre Dame, Indiana.
It All...
Comes Out In The Wash
ND Maintains Laundry and Dry-Cleaning Facilities for Students’ Convenience
By Jack Ward
The author is a junior in the College
of Arts and Letters. Until recently he
resided in Baltimore, Md., but now
claims New Orleans as home. Mr. Ward
is a member of the Notre Dame Scho-
lastic staff.
rpo most students, St. Michael’s Laun-
-*• dry is little more than the target of
all “torn shirt” jokes, and is referred to
more often as “the home of the holy
sock.” But for Gerald J. Hoar, the mana-
ger and his 85 employees, the laundry
is a very serious business, and, as Mr.
Hoar says, “Take the laundry away, and
the student body will begin taking it
seriously, too.”
Mr. Hoar was graduated from the
University of Notre Dame in 1921. In
his student days he was personal secre-
tary to Knute Rockne and a three year
member of the track team. He has been
connected with the American Institute
of Laundry both as supervisor of the
Joliet branch, and as field secretary of
the National Institute. During the later
period he had the opportunity of travel-
ing extensively around the country and
studying the industry from all its angles.
In 1936 Mr. Hoar accepted the manager-
ship of the Notre Dame laundry.
The campus laundry handles an un-
believable turnover: more than 90,000
shirts, socks, handkerchiefs, undergar-
ments, and other student items each
week. But that is only part of it. Con-
sider also the linen supplies from the
14 residence halls, the infirmary, Moreau
Seminary, Dujarie Hall, and the various
community houses. That adds up to about
4,400 beds. There is also work taken in
from the dining hall and the athletic
association; and in addition there are
the cloths to be laundered used daily on
the 136 campus altars. Try to figure
out how a laundry employing 85 persons
on a 44-hour week can pick up, clean,
and return these hundreds of thousands
of pieces every week, and then perhaps
you may understand the problem that
Mr. Hoar has been facing for the past
14 years.
“With 4,000 students sending laundry
16 Notre Dame
every week plus more from the other
campus activities, we find it necessary
to set up a tight schedule, and we can’t
afford to lose an hour. Yet, with holi-
days and all the other difficulties that
come up it is physically impossible to
hold our schedule. In other words, we
are operating well over our capacity.”
Mr. Hoar is well justified in making
such a statement, for St. Michael’s ranks
in volume in the upper ten per cent of
United States laundries, and with the
exception of the comparative ease in
collecting and delivering the laundry—
since the bundles are collected at a
specified time from each residence hall
and returned to a central distributing
point—there is no real difference be-
tween St. Michael’s and any other laun-
dry.
Yet Notre Dame has a unique setup
in that every September there are some
1,000 new customers, and about 300
every February. Of course, that means
that more than 300,000 pieces must be
carefully marked for identification. It
is especially important that care be
taken with the marking, for once an
article is marked improperly it is sure
to cause difficulty to both student and
The Notre Dame laundry is
one of the largest institutional
laundries in the nation.
laundry as long as it stays at Notre
Dame.
According to Mr. Hoar, there is prob-
ably not a larger institutional laundry
in the United States. Most of the others
do flat work only; while at Notre Dame
“convenience” is the byword. Many of
the delicate sport shirts that require
special care are done by hand with no
extra charge to the student, while up-
wards of thirty cents for each shirt is
charged at any commercial laundry.
Even though the campus laundry does
get progressively behind in its work, it
is a “finished” laundry—one that re-
turns the work completely done with no
wet wash, etc.
Mr. Hoar explains that the present
system has proven to be the best for both
student and laundry. “We find that
starting the laundry pickups on Wednes-
day, the middle of the week, eliminates
the weekend rush which, in our case
during the full season, is impossible to
handle satisfactorily.
“Trucks bring the soiled laundry to
the receiving room, hall by hall, and it
is kept in that order through the com-
plete processing and checking out.
(Continued on Page 22)

Embroiderer
(Continued from Page 9)
him stop sewing, he rests in his chair
and looks about the room. All his
mementos remind him of the past.
One faded picture shows a young
college student standing in a frozen pose
with arms akimbo. The caption reads:
San Vincent College, 1898. Pastor was
attending St. Vincent in the Philippines
when the Spanish-American war broke
out. It wasn’t long after the Americans
arrived that he had become close friends
with many of the soldiers and with an
Army chaplain, in particular.
When the war ended the chaplain,
Father Vattman, wanted to bring Pastor
back to the States with him. The young
Filipino wanted to go so much that he
gave up his studies at San Vincent to
concentrate on improving his English.
Within a few months Father Vattman
was able to make arrangements for the
crossing.
That was December, 1902. Pastor was
recognized as the first Filipino to become
a naturalized American citizen and was
caught up in a round of celebrations. He
was taken to the White House tj meet
President Theodore Roosevelt.
“The minute President see me, he
smile. I guess he like me very much;
he invite me back to White House sev-
eral time. Once when I get ready to
leave he say, ‘My friend Pastor, this is
for you—a gift from me.’ ” It was a
profile of Lincoln made from macerated
federal bank notes. Pastor points to it
proudly on his wall and says: “That is
worth $5,000. Look, look here on back.”
A note is attached, verifying the value.
He also knew William H. Taft and
Woodrow Wilson. He met Franklin D.
Roosevelt, but says diffidently: “I never
with him much, so didn’t have a chance
to become good friend.” He has mingled
with what he terms “princes, presidents
and popes.”
Pastoi’ chooses to stay on the Notre
Dame campus today, but his travelling
habits weren’t always like this. He has
been twice 'around the world and has
travelled extensively in North America,
in Europe, and in Asia.
He has studied in Spain, Italy, France
and Japan. He paints in oils; he has
also 'studied singing, weaving, the piano,
violin, and the guitar. Now, however,
he hasn’t much energy for any of these.
“I just embroider a little, garden a little,
and read a little. The days, they are so
short.”
Only once has he ever returned to the
Philippines. That was around 1920. Pas-
tor stayed for a few years and came
back to the United States in 1926 for
the Eucharistic Congress in Chicago. He
hurried back to his real love, Notre
Dame, after that and has stayed there
ever since only because he wants to.
Pastor owns a rice and sugar plan-
tation in the Islands but he prefers his
semi-monastic life at the University.
“I often think I return to my home in
San Jose some day, but now life is not
good in Philippines, anymore. Why
should I go home, I say to myself, when
I live here so close to the Blesesd Mother.
Here I am happiest. Here all I do is
work and live for Her.”
As you sit by his tiny window looking
at the path leading down to the Grotto
you can see students pasing by. Pastor
smiles and waves to them and says: “I
know they think I am poor man. They
feel sorry for me.”
He gazes out the window. You don’t
know whether or not he’s looking up at
the statue on the golden dome. But when
Our Lady’s embroiderer turns around he
is smiling. “Maybe some day they be
as rich as me,”’ he says.
Placement Bureau
(Continued from Page 8)
the Placement Bureau in the Adminis-
tration Building, we arrange to have
each visitor meet, frequently at lunch,
the faculty members who know best the
students being considered. Frequently
the interviewers, especially those con-
cerned with Science and Engineering
students, wish to confer further with
faculty members or to inspect labora-
tories. Arrangements are made accord-
ingly.
Interviewing on the campus is by
common agreement the most effective
means of meeting prospective employes
among college students. But when this
procedure is inconvenient or impossible,
the Placement Bureau is happy to have
interested and qualified students or
alumni communicate by mail with pros-
pective employers.
The service of the Placement Bureau
is available not only to Notre Dame stu-
dents, both graduate and undergraduat?,
but also to Notre Dame alumni. Any
alumnus, young, old or in-between, is
invited and welcome to register with the
Bureau. When and if there is an ap-
propriate opening on file, we tell him
about it. And, in addition to giving our
best advice, we frequently refer him to
an alumnus or alumni or an alumni
club that can give him some additional
help.
A recently prepared folder, explaining
the service of the Placement Bureau and
outlining the departments, both gradu-
ate and undergraduate, of the Univer-
sity, is available to all interested firms
and persons and will be gladly sent on
request.
ND Football Captains
Jerry Groom
Regardless of the “record,” Notre
Dame’s 1950 gridiron squad was led by
a student who epitomizes the moral, re-
sponsible leadership of which Notre
Dame is justly proud. Captain Jerry
Groom, All-American center from Des
Moines, Iowa, was outstanding off as
well as on the field.
Jim Mutscheller, sensational end, of
Beaver Falls, Pa., will captain the 1951
team.
Jim Mutscheller

Vol. 4 • No. I 17
Father Cavanaugh on
! Visitors’ Board
'	The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of Notre
Dame, has accepted membership on the
•	Board of Visitors of the Air University
|	at Maxwell Air Force Base, Montgomery,
|	Ala.
I
;	Father Cavanaugh accepted an invita-
;	tion tendered by General Hoyt S. Van-
f	denberg, Chief of Staff of the United
J	States Air Force, to serve on the Board
‘	of Visitors of the Air University. The
;	Air University was created in 1945 by
the United States Air Force, according
to General Vandenberg, “to provide post-
graduate education for Air Force offi-
cers in order to improve their profes-
sional capabilities and knowledge, to
widen their vision and to insure forward
thinking and adequate leadership for the
Air Force, both in peace and war.”
The Board of Visitors of the Air Uni-
versity, comprised of senior educators
and university administrators, was creat-
ed in 1946 to guide the development of
the university. The Board of Visitors
convenes annually to confer with the se-
nior staff and commandants of the Air
University on matters of policy and to
assist in the over-all direction of the
university.
Father Cavanaugh also is a member
of the Board of Visitors of the United
States Naval Academy.
British Professor Gives
Reilly Chemistry Lecture
Professor M. G. Evans, of the Univer-
sity of Manchester, England, delivered
the first of ten addresses scheduled for
the current Peter C. Reilly Chemistry
Lectures.
The Reilly Lectures in Chemistry were
established at Notre Dame through a
gift from Peter C. Reilly, President of
the Reilly Tar and Chemical Company,
Indianapolis, Ind. Mr. Reilly is a mem-
ber of the Associate Board of Lay Trus-
tees and of the Advisory Council for’ Sci-
ence and Engineering at Notre Dame.
New Chairman Elected
For Advisory Council
Leland V. Stanford, of New York City,
Vice-President of the Sinclair Refining
Company, was elected Chairman of the
Advisory Council for Science and Engi-
neering at the University of Notre Dame
at a recent meeting of the Council.
Mr. Stanford succeeds Bradley Dewey,
President of the Dewey and Almy Chem-
ical Company, Cambridge, Mass., as
Chairman of the Council.
Dr. William Calcott, Assistant Chemi-
cal Director of the Organic Chemicals
Department of the E. I. du Pont de Ne-
mours & Company, Wilmington, Del.,
was elected Vice-Chairman of the Notre
Damp. Advisory Council. Dr. Calcott suc-
ceeds Britton I. Budd, Chicago, Ill.,
President of the Public Service Com-
pany of Northern Illinois, as Vice-
Chairman of the Advisory Council.
Lobund Director Named
To National Science Board
Professor James A. Reyniers, Direc-
tor of LOBUND Institute at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, has been appoint-
ed by President Harry S. Truman to
serve a six-year term on the newly-
established National Science Board.
The Board, which is composed of 24
prominent educators, industrialists and
scientists, has been designated by Presi-
dent Truman “to develop and encourage
the formation of a national policy for
the promotion of basic research and edu-
cation in the sciences.” Among the
Board’s specific duties will be the review
of all government research grants from
the. National Science Foundation for
work in medicine, biology, mathematics,
physics and engineering.
In requesting Professor Reyniers’
membership on the National Science
Board, President Truman stressed in a
letter to the Notre Dame scientist the
great responsibility which rests with the
group because of the influence it will
have on industrial development, national
defense and the general welfare.
A check of $1,000,000 from Mr. I. A. O'Shaughnessy, completes his gift of
$1,500,000 for the O'Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts Building. Mr. O'Shaughnessy
(inset) is president of the Globe Oil and Refining Co., St. Paul, Minn.
AV
OF
•» minn.
Inc.
22-6 o
22-63
Shaughnessy FouNDati

saint i»AIrx
FmsrTimsT Company

^AINT	MINN.
^Dollars
. »NC,
prehTokht
Id
Notre Dame
*£st5*<
AX^8,'~'E.r^5 »m»E*U
Final plans for the E. M. Morris Inn have been approved. This building is already under
construction and provision for it was made by Mr. E. M. Morris (inset), Chairman of
the Board, Associates Investment Co., South Bend, Ind.
Atomic Research Stressed
At University Seminar
Two scientists who have made in-
valuable contributions to the progress of
atomic research in the United States
were guest speakers at an Inter-Univer-
sity Seminar held recently in the De-
partment of Physics at the University ‘
of Notre Dame.
Professor' Enrico Fermi, who helped
make the atomic bomb possible by de-
veloping the first sustained chain-reac-
tion, discussed “Statistical Theory of
Meson Production.” Dr. Arthur H. Snell,
Chief Physicist at the Oak Ridge Na-
tional Laboratory, Oak Ridge, Tenn., de-
scribed “Recent Work on the Decay of
the Neutron.” Scientists from a dozen
universities attended.
Cartier Portraits Given
To University Library
Charles E. Cartier, brother of the do-
nor of Cartier Field and presently
cashier of the Notre Dame Foundation,
has presented the University with two
life-sized Gregori portraits in oil of his
parents, A. E. and Eliza Ayers Cartier.
The Italian artist Luigi Gregori paint-
ed the Columbus murals in the halls of
the Main Building of the University
during his residence in the United States
from 1882 to 1889.
Famous Aviation Expert
Talks to Engineer Group
Dr. Hugh L. Dryden, supervisor of
one of the world’s foremost aviation re-
search centers, delivered the 1950 Martin
McCue Memorial Lecture recently in the
College of Engineering at the University
of Notre Dame.
Dr. Dryden, who since 1947 has been
director of Aeronautical Research on the
National Advisory Committee for Aero-
nautics, Washington, D. C., spoke on
“The Pathway from Vision to Accom-
plishment in Aeronautics.” His discus-
sion was founded on more than 30 years
of pioneer experimentation and research
in the field, during which time he held
important posts in aerodynamics and
mechanics with the United Bureau of
•Standards.
A personal friend of Wilbur and Or-
ville Wright, Dr. Dryden has been hon-
ored frequently by his colleagues in sci-
ence for vital contributions to aviation
studies. Besides the Reed Award of the
Institute for Aeronautical Sciences, he
has been awarded the Presidential Certi-
ficate of Merit and the Medal of Free-
dom. He is currently a fellow in the
Royal Aeronautical Society and editor
of the Journal for Aeronautical Sciences.
The Martin McCue Lectures in Engi-
neering are sponsored annually at No-
tre Dame in honor of Professor Martin
J. McCue, for 45 years a member of the
University faculty and first dean of the
College of Engineering at Notre Dame.
The lecture program was originated in
1943 through the generosity of C. A.
Breitung, of Dallas, Texas.
Professor Gilson Here
For Special Lectures
Professor Etienne Gilson, renowned
French philospher and a member of the
French Academy, delivered four lec-
tures recently at the University of No-
tre Dame.
One address concerned the “Historical
Research and the Future of Scholastic-
ism.” The other three discussed “The
Fundamental Positions of Duns Scotus
in the Light of Historical Research.”
In addition to his lectures and re-
search projects, Professor Gilson has
produced a number of books on the his-
toi'y of philosphy. Among these are
The Philosophy of the Middle Ages, Be-
ing and Some Philosphers, and The
Unity of Philosophical Experience. In
virtue of his work he holds honorary de-
grees from Oxford, Cambridge, Yale,
and Princeton.
His lectures at Notre Dame were
sponsored by the University’s Mediae-
val Institute through the aid of the Mi-
chael P. Grace, II, Trust.
Vol. 4
No. I
19
The Road to Rome
By Al LaPorte
rpHROUGH the centuries for more than
x two thousand, years Italy has held
in the palm of her hand a most precious
jewel for all the world to behold. She
has jealously guarded this, her crowning
glory, protecting it through persecutions,
invasions and war, gazing fondly if
proudly as its brilliance outshone all
others.
And the Italians have been most gen-
erous with their possession. Anyone
may come to view, to wonder as he sees
the heart of the old Roman Empire and
the seat of Christendom. The Italians
boasted once that “All roads lead to
Rome.” Their claim still stands un-
challenged.
By decree of His Holiness Pope Pius
XII the time between Christmas Eve,
1949, and Christmas Eve, 1950, was set
aside as a period of penance and prayer
for all the faithful, designated by the
term “'Holy Year.” In response to the
Papal Bull, Christians the world over
have made the pilgrimage to the Eternal
City.
Twenty-five Notre Dame students, 5
alumni, 4 seminarians and 4 priests
joined the traveling ranks as they made
a month-long tour of Europe, stopping
at religious and historic landmarks along
the way, following the road to Rome.
This is a very brief narration of their
journey, a journey which took one month
to complete, but which could fill a life-
time.
* * *
An hour before midnight the two
DC-4’s took off from Newark and Idle-
wild for Gander, Newfoundland, first
stop on the long transocean hop. In less
than six hours both aircraft had put
The author is feature editor for the
Notre Dame “Scholastic” and is from
New Rochelle, N. Y. Mr. LaPorte ivill
graduate with the June, 1951 Class
having majored in Political Science.
down at Gander after an uneventful
1163 mile flight.
Like commuters grabbing a bite to eat
on the run, the passengers ate breakfast
at the Terminal, downing the last cup
of coffee in the gray light of dawn. At
6:45 a.m. New York time they were air-
borne again, headed over the sea to
Shannon, Ireland.
The planes came in at Shannon in
darkness, landing at 9:30 p.m. After
another hit-and-run meal the whole
troop climbed aboard for the flight to
London, arriving just before 3 a.m.
Following Mass at St. Aloysius’s,
everybody took off on sight-seeing trips.
Name any of the famous sights in this
famous city and at least one of the
travelers saw it. Buckingham Palace,
Westminister Abbey, 10 Downing Street,
the Tower of London, St. Paul’s Cath-
edral, Picadilly Circus, Leicester Square
—the list takes pages.
“Air France” flew the group across
the Channel to Paris, landing at 1 p.m.
After a Customs check at LeBourget
Airport, the 60-person party split up
and headed by bus for their hotels.
Once again the majority sacked out
early, too tired to try Paris on the
first night.
Notre Dame welcomed Notre Dame as
Mass was celebrated the next day in
the famous Cathedral. Nothing the Eng-
lish had could compare with the beauti-
ful old church, her architecture and
three rose windows. Tradition has it
that the cardinals’ hats which hang
above the main altar will fall when
their owners reach heaven. The hats
are then burned and the ashes sprinkled
in the River Seine. Cardinal Riche-
lieu’s hat has been hanging placidly for
300 years.
The magic of Paris lured the tourists
in the afternoon as they traversed the
length and breadth of the city, visiting
the Louvre where the “Mona Lisa”
hangs, the Arc de Triomphe de L’Etoile
and the Eiffel Tower.
The guided tour went to Lisieux and
the shrine of St. Theresa. There the
group saw the saint’s crypt where lies
the Little Flower, just as she died. A
visit to the Basilica ended the day.
Again the early risers routed the rest
of the crew out at 5:30 for the train
trip to Lucerne, Switzerland. A change
in schedule cut the allotted time down
to only a night stopover here, right in
the middle of the Swiss Alps amidst the
rolling fields then in harvest. Though
snow was on the mountain peaks, three
hardy souls went swimming in the
picturesque lake.
Carved into the white face of a near-
by cliff is the famous “Lion of Lucerne,”
a monument to the 780 Swiss guards
who died defending the palace of Marie
Antionette and Louis XVI against the
.'nobs of the French Reign of Terror.
Lucerne is one of the two cantons (Zu-
rich, the other) to supply the first Papal
guards, the result of a treaty made with
the Vatican in 1505. And on to Venice!
Down the canals in a procession of
Gondoling on one of Venice's main thoroughfares.
Tower of London is guarded by artillery.
gondolas sailed the amazed travelers to
the Ducal Palace, St. Mark’s and the
heart of the glass blowing industry.
Later in the day a big celebration in
honor of the Blessed Virgin commenced
on many of the canals and through tre
city’s streets—streets often wide enough
for only three people to walk abreast.
That night the gang “went to sea”
again, winding up the procession with
a roaring “Victory March” to mandolin
accompaniment.
We arrived in Rome at 7 in the eve-
ning. The unfinished railroad station
is a masterpiece, made of white marble
and glass. The lodgings were in a
former military school built by Mussol-
ini for his youth movement with all the
grandeur and space to be found any-
where. A brief tour of the city ended
with welcome sleep.
First item on the order next day was
the required visit to the four main
churches—St. Peter’s, St. Mary Major,
St. Paul’s on the Ostian Way and St.
John Lateran — where the necessary
prayers were said for the Holy Year
indulgence. If St. Peter’s seemed im-
pressive in the morning at the first visit,
it was magnificent this night, for it
was then that the group witnessed the
canonization of Maria Goretti.
To ensure a place from which the
ceremonies could be seen, the pilgrims
arrived two hours early. The estimated
crowd was between 350 and 400 thou-
sand in the Square, the first time a
canonization has been held outdoors. The
procession lasted 25 minutes with near-
ly 80,000 participants. The whole show
lasted 2% hours, colorful, inspiring as
only Rome can be.
The canonization Mass on Sunday was
a big event. St. Peter’s was jammed.
The capacity for this occasion was
80,000, though the church will hold an
even 100,000. A roar began from the
rear and swelled to a thunderous cres-
cendo as every voice blenfed into one
shouting the electrifying “Viva II Papa!”
when His Holiness was carried in on the
shoulders of eight guards, riding serene-
ly in his Sedia Gestatoria. He turned
from side to side, smiling, beaming as
he blessed the throng. This wild cheer-
ing and waving of handkerchiefs, so out
of place in an American cathedral,
seemed so natural in St. Peter’s that
everyone, foreigners alike, joined the
salute.
Then a Vatican tour of the Museum,
Sistine Chapel, Library and then Rome
itself. The Forum, Pantheon and other
historical sites were all visited in a
quick but interesting search through the
old and new parts of the city.
After Mass, the party went out to the
John See, ND student, Father Edmund Murray, C.S.C., and friends pose on steps of
Cathedral, Chartres, France.
old Roman catacombs of San Sebastiano,
the only ones accessible to the pilgrims.
Down narrow passages lit only by the
light of the guide’s taper went the small
group past niches where sometimes ap-
peared the name of the interred and
sometimes the word “in pace.” A few
of the earlier inscriptions are in Greek,
the later, in Latin. Could the cata-
combs be placed in a continuous line,
they would stretch roughly 545 miles, but
they are built on tiers, the deepest 50
feet down, the newest only 22 feet below
the ground’s surface.
The crowning highlight of the tour
was the audience with the Pope. Again
the mad cheering, clapping and waving
as His Holiness arrived, announced by
the silver trumpets. After he had
circled the church, the Holy Father sat
down to talk to the pilgrims in their
own tongues. He spoke in Italian,
French, Spanish, German and English.
His diction was perfect. After the
formal audience, he visited with the
various hierarchy, then went about
shaking hands and talking until 7:30
when he left the church on his chair,
blessing all as he went.
Off for Nice, France, by 8 o’clock in
the morning. At 7 this night the group
arrived at the famous town along the
French Riviera. Nice’s hotels were the
most luxurious imaginable. When some
of the party sat down on the seaside
benches, they were assessed the usual
tax for using the benches, a custom
prevalent in this country.
Two days were spent thoroughly view-
ing the Grotto, Basilica and surround-
ing religious shrines of Lourdes. Ap-
proximately 200 miracles occur here
every yeai' at the shrine. The water
where so many of the miracles take
place is not changed after each bath, no
matter what disease it may touch, but
not one case of contagion has ever' been
recorded in this spring water.
Our arrival in Madrid was in the
midst of the hot season and the women
made continual use of their fans wher-
ever they w,ent. One party went to the
bull ring to see what attracts the eyes
of all Spain but they did not have time
to stay for the fights that weekend.
Twelve hours and 250 miles later the
train pulled into Lisbon. Immediately
the side trip to Fatima began. Eleven
more hours. But the trip was worth it,
though the stop at Fatima was only one
hour. The basilica is not as beautiful
as many of the others on the trip, but
its simplicity was compelling. Back to
the hotel and final preparations for the
“long voyage home.”
The morning was spent in readying
everything for the flight west. Enroute
we stopped at the Azores. Final touch-
down at Idlewild was midnight, one
month from the day of departure.
The 1950 Holy Year pilgrimage was
over, though many had recorded it on
movie and candid film, filling scrapbooks
with pictures, cards, stubs and menus
from every conceivable place on the trip.
Tired but happy, they left the airport.
The road to Rome had been traveled.
Vol. 4
No. I
21

Laundry
(Continued from Page 16)
. “After listing, the bundle with the
bag is passed on to the markers where
each piece is stamped permanently with
the student’s laundry number.
“From the time a bundle is broken,
counted, listed, marked, separated, clas-
sified or sorted, loaded, washed, pulled,
extracted, dried, ironed, folded, assorted,
checked, and wrapped ready for delivery
Laundry Manager Gerald Hoar.
to our central distributing office at Bad-
in Hall, approximately five hours’ time
is consumed.”
The present laundry, inadequate be-
cause of a lack of space is, nevertheless,
continually adding the most modem and
scientific processes. There are five 42'x
36' stainless metal washers, and one
pony washer for silks and woolens. There
is one 28-inch and three 48-inch extrac-
tors, two small and one large tumblers,
two handkerchief ironers, one complete
American-System shirt finishing unit
(which handles 8,000 shirts per week),
six sets of garment presses, two com-
plete sets of sock forms, one collar press
for starched collars, four sock darning
machines, and one compressor for oper-
ating all air controlled presses.
The dry cleaning department of the
laundry is entirely for the convenience
of the students. While the best dry clean-
ing equipment available is used, the
prices are lower than those of most es-
tablishments, and the University is not
making a profit from the concession.
From 1936 to 1949 there were no in-
creases in prices, and the recent changes
were deemed necessary only because of
the great increase in operating expenses.
The laundry is essentially a conveni-
ence for the student body and is operat-
ed on a family basis rather than for
commercial profit. It is another one of
the many unusual and modern facilities
offered to the students by the University.
Armour Gives $2,500 Grant
A $2,500 grant has been given to the
University of Notre Dame by Armour
and Company of Chicago for the study of
the biology and control of the sheep
stomach worm.
Dr. John D. Mizelle, Professor of Bi-
ology and editor of the American Mid-
land Naturalist at Notre Dame, announc-
ed that Joseph Berberian, a graduate
student in the Department of Biology
at the University, has been given a Fel-
lowship under the terms of the Armour
grant to work on a method to rid farm-
ers of this menace to sheep.
This parasite is responsible for the
loss every year of hundreds of tons of
mutton. A blood-sucker by nature, the
adult worm lives in the fourth stomach
of the sheep and consumes the nutritive
agents that should go to the development
of edible flesh.
Notre Dame Receives
Unique Gift Volume
An elaborate volume of reproductions
from a 14th-century Hungarian Bible has
been presented to the Mediaeval Insti-
tute of the University of Notre Dame
by Congressman Christopher G. Mc-
Grath, of New York.
The gift was announced by the Rev.
Gerald B. Phelan, Director of the Insti-
tute, who described the Bible as the
Nekcesei-Lipocz edition — a rare manu-
script preserved in the Library of Con-
gress. The volume presented to Notre
Dame includes one full-size color repro-
duction of a page from the highly-illumi-
nated manuscript, along with numerous
Credits—
Photos: John See; Bruce Harlan,
University Staff Photographer;
James McLaughlin; Hal Munger;
Richard Gorman; John Kinville.
Articles: The Road to Rome and
It All Comes Out in the Wash, from
the Notre Dame Scholastic.
black-and-white plates. It was edited by
Meta Harrsen, Librarian of the Pier-
pont-Morgan Library of New York.
The Mediaeval Institute was estab-
lished at Notre Dame in 1946 to encour-
age research and advanced study in the
language, philosphy, theology, and gen-
eral culture of the Middle Ages.
|
i
Dean Manion Appointed
A.B.A. Special Committee
Dean Clarence E. Manion of the Col-
lege of Law at the University of Notre
Dame has been appointed to membership
on the American Bar Association’s Spe-
cial Committee to Study Communist Tac-
tics and Objectives.
The committee, appointed by the pres-
ident of the American Bar Association,
is designed to study Communist tactics,
strategy and objectives, particularly as
they relate to the obstruction of proper
court procedure and law enforcement.
ND Professor Attends
French Education Meet
Dr. William O. Shanahan, professor of
history at the University is in Nice,
France, this month representing Notre
Dame at the International Conference of
Universities.
The conference is sponsored by the
United Nations and its aim is to set up
an international organization of “Uni-
versities and institutions of higher learn-
ing.” Over 90 schools from 30 countries
were invited to send delegates and Notre
Dame is one of three Catholic universi-
ties in this country invited.
Harry G. Hogan, Arch Ward
Get ND Honorary Degrees
At the University of Notre Dame Com-
mencement exercises to be held on Janu-
ary 28, two outstanding Notre Dame
Foundation personalities will be honor-
ed by their alma mater. Mr. Harry G.
Hogan, Fort Wayne, Indiana, business-
man, who pioneered the Foundation pro-
gram at Notre Dame and was the first
National Chairman, and Mr. Arch Ward,
City Chairman in Chicago and Sports
Editor of the Chicago Tribune will re-
ceive honorary doctorates.
Others receiving honorary degrees in-
clude the Rev. John Courtney Mur-
ray, S.J., noted Catholic editor and the
Very Rev. Vincent J. Flynn, president of
St. Thomas College, St. Paul, Minn.
22
Notre Dame
4 * o •
t '♦ »>
, /*, >
1 * ’
& V
■ \ ’
£ r
sa
1
*
* ? »
V 4
V *
&	»' i
t $
'*	» .	'	•	1 v
"a it w *«ti>
gr
■<^0. OOO
f,
s
$
£
b
4 '■
afford).
you can
*
M1
A corporation gift
4s
$
V
W’jrr ■”*
* t
Including Notre Dame in
your insurance program.
&
X
A
> ’»
Remembering Notre Dame
in your Will (or advise a
friend to do the same).
4	' J * i
" %	4 ?</< '
And you, the friends* of Notre Dame,
can help-us continue the training/” . \
of moral; responsible leaders by;
s h •»	*	y	,	.
A Direct Gift from you '	?
to Notre Dame (any amount
500
OOO

»

Equips .
AllHAMDg
‘	*:»W^
NOTRE DAME'S
private education must blewi
maintained^
« «
*	-	/ * /	* y v
? , Soliciting a gift from
one, or more, of your	*
friends.

?; V». •.«. A?.- ’;*♦ '•■ .;<< *»»■
4 S V «’*«**
< *	2* J&. A
v^eNt
^e^tina r>i^. ,
System i

ion
°baJ


say O
AU GIFTS AM TAX DEDUCTIBLE UNDtt EXISTING LAWS
<

y.. \* -
rZ*
V5. S®®**!
>«