.X
Notre Dame
tAb&& Sam#
WINTER • 1953
Symposium speakers included (left to right): Dr. Pap, Notre Dame; Dr.
Pipes, Harvard; Father Moore, Notre Dame; Dr. Timasheff, Fordham; Dr.
Gurian, Notre Dame; and Dr. Weintraub, Harvard. See story on page 15.
Scholarships
Vincent Fernandes...................3
President’s Page ....... 6
Masterpieces ........................7
The Grotto...........................8
Anybody Here Named Murphy
James E. Murphy....................9
Senor Langford, Tutor of Modern
Languages, Tennis and Fencing
Joseph Durkin ....... 10
The Morris Inn
Daniel Boland.....12
Hear Ye! Hear Ye! Moot Court Is
Now in Session	;
Thomas C. Murphy ...... 16	,
!
One of Ten Outstanding Young	!
Men of 1952 in U. S. ...... 18	•
i
You, too, Can Be a Philanthropist . . 19
5
J
5
I
I
I
VOL. 6 • NO. I
s
j
F
j The 1948 $25,000,000 Long-Range Program
1. Buildings.
1.	Residence halls — four residence halls and a grad-
uate hall.	.
2.	A Student Union Building.
3.	College of Arts and Letters Building.
4.	Fine Arts Building.
5.	Chemistry Building.
6.	Memorial Library.
7.	Bacteriology Laboratories.
8.	Physics Building.
9.	Auditorium or Field House.
10.	Memorial Chapel.	■
II.	Support and Augmenting of Teaching Staff.
t
III.	Student Aid Program.
IV.	Special Funds—teachers retirement, employee pen-
sions, library needs, support of learned publications.
V.	General Unrestricted Endowment — Notre Dame in
1948 ranked 93rd among the colleges and univer-
sities of the United States.	'
NOTRE DAME HAS ACHIEVED (from 1948)
NOTRE DAME STILL MUST HAVE
Approximately $8,000,000 in gifts, and $2,000,000 in
industrial and government grants for research including:
1. Support of Teaching Staff.
I.	Buildings.
L The Fisher Residence Hall.
2.	The Science Building, with provision for Chemistry,
Physics and Mathematics.
3.	The I. A. O’Shaughnessy Building of Liberal and
Fine Arts.
4.	The Lobund Laboratory for large-scale colonies of
germ-free life.
5.	The Morris Inn.
6.	The recently announced Student Recreation Center
in the old Science Hall.
II.	Faculty Aid.
1.	Rockefeller Grant for the Committee on Interna-
tional Relations.
2.	Damon Runyon Fund for Lobund.
3.	The General Program of Liberal Education.
4.	Elevation of Lobund to Institute status.
ill.	Student Aid Program.
1.
2.
• 3.
4.
Endowed professorships.
Distinguished service professorships.
Visiting lecturer funds.
Research and travel funds for faculty members in
advanced studies.
II.	Special Funds.
1.	Library maintenance and book purchases.
2.	Subsidy of learned publications.
3.	Employee (non-teaching) pension plan.
III.	Student Aid.
1.	Additional scholarships.
2.	Additional fellowships.
3.	Post-doctoral scholarships.
4.	Additional loan funds.
1.
2.
3.
The Fisher Student Loan Fund of $250,000.
The $1,200,000 Fisher Art Collection.
Increasing scholarships and fellowships from Notre
Dame Clubs and industry.	•
IV.
IV. Special Funds.
1.	A faculty retirement plan.
2.	Natural Law Institute Grants.
Buildings.
1.	A graduate hall, some residence halls, an auxiliary dining hall, and a priests’ residence.
2.	A Library.
3.	Maintenance Building.
4.	An auditorium or field house.
5.	Supplementary laboratories for bacteriology.
General Unrestricted Endowment — Notre Dame still
ranks only 64th among colleges and universities.
V. General Endowment. .
1. By the aid of the investment counsel of the Lay
Trustees endowment has increased 78%.

V.
For additional information
please address:
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
Notre Dame, Indiana

huMnals, Alumni Ms Help Needy Students
HIS NAME is Patrick Murphy, or
Carl Schuler, or Nathaniel Levi-
stein. He is just a typical American
boy from anywhere in these United
States. Though his financial resources
are limited he’d like to go to college
. . . to Notre Dame. And no matter
what his race, color or creed he may
and can.
“For the American idea,” Mr. James
E. Armstrong, Executive Vice -Chair-
man of the Notre Dame Foundation
and Secretary of the N.D. Alumni As-
sociation, will tell you, “is that educa-
tion is for everybody. It is considered
so valuable that it is given to young
folks below cost, so that it will not be
something only for those with wealth.”
Because Notre Dame’s founders and
administrators have always believed
this, the University, like most private
institutions, does not pay for itself. It
was recently estimated that it costs
about ten and a half million dollars
to run N.D. each year. From tuition,
board and other fees the University ob-
tains about seven and a half million
dollars from the students and their
families. That leaves a deficit of
$3,000,000. Thus it costs Notre Dame
about $500 a year to educate each
student. Consequently, through gifts,
alumni aid and the N.D. Foundation,
the University endeavors to make up
this difference.
“For we realize,” says Father Alfred
Mendez, C.S.C., Chairman of the
Scholarship Committee, “that one of
the strongest bulwarks of American
Democracy is not the public schools
but private institutions.
“Today more and more of our
people are assuming it to be the duty
of the state to take care of them. The
greatest defense against such depen-
dence, against such growing socialism,
by Vincent Fernandes
Vincent R. Fernandes is a Junior,
majoring in Journalism, and will
graduate with the Class of ’55. He
was born in the Hawaiian Islands and
has lived in Honduras.
■
is the private school. The Catholic
school system in the United States is
the greatest example of private enter-
prise in the world! For we believe
in that good early American spirit of
independence. We build our schools
without a cent of public funds. We
carry on without any taxpayer’s dollar.
Therefore, we ought to be, and we
are, in a much better position than
others to teach our children the value
of standing on their own two feet, of
not being a ward of the state, of ac-
cepting all the responsibilities of a free
democracy, based as it is on a belief
in a Supreme Being. In this environ-
Scholarship winner Con Szuberf is interviewed by the Committee on Scholarships. (L. to R.) Mr. James Armstrong, Alumni
Secretary; Rev. Paul Beichner, C.S.C., Graduate School Dean; and Rev. Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., Committee Chairman.
Vol. 6 • No. 1
3
The late Rev. James A. Burns, C.S.C.,
former president of the University of
Notre Dame, has a scholarship named
after him.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana. Entered as sec-
ond class matter May 10, 1948,
at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August
24, 1912.
James ,E. Armstrong, '25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., ’37,
Managing Editor
Contributors’ views do not neces-
sarily reflect those of the Uni-
versity. Requests to reproduce
material in this magazine should
be addressed to the Editor.
Vol. 6 No. 1 Winter, 1953
AI DeCrane, 1952 national debate
champion and a senior from Cleve-
land, Ohio, holder of a Phelan Me-
morial scholarship.
ment it is still possible for a young
man to rise through his own initiative
and effort.”
Take the typical case of a Pat Mur-
phy. He would like to attend Notre
Dame but perhaps does not have the
dollar resources necessary to finance
such a hope. “It takes a terrific in-
vestment to put a boy through school,”
Mr. Emerit Moore, Director of N.D.’s
Student Accounts, will remind you.
Fathers of college boys will generally
tend to agree with him.
But at Notre Dame Pat, with his
own initiative and family assistance
and the help of one or a combination
of three plans, could do it. The three
ways listed in the University’s General
Bulletin under “Student Aid” are Stu-
dent Employment, the Fisher Loan
Fund, and Scholarships.
He might work part of his way
through under the Personnel Depart-
ment’s student employment program.
A recent University publicity release
stated that, “One out of every seven
undergraduates at Notre Dame is
working his way through college.
Seven hundred students work an av-
erage of twelve hours each week and
earn up to 25 per cent of their tui-
tion.” Others are employed full and
part-time in nearby South Bend by
business and industrial organizations.
Or perhaps Pat could obtain a loan,
equal to one-third the yearly tuition,
from the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Edu-
cation Fund. Since its establishment
in 1950 with a gift of $250,000 the re-
volving student loan fund has helped
280 N.D. students.
But Pat, like more than a hundred
others who are now doing it, decides
to earn his way through Notre Dame
under the third plan—the scholarship
plan. It would not be easy. Although
scholarships at Notre Dame are not
just for the intellectual elite, a student
who gets one must fulfill many exact-
ing requirements.
He has to apply to and be checked
over and considered by Notre Dame’s
three-man Committee on Scholarships.
The Committee is composed of the
John Neher, a native of South Bend,
is on a scholarship sponsored by the
St. Joseph Valley N.D. Alumni Club.
chairman and Fathers William Cun-
ningham, C.S.C., and Paul Beichner,
C.S.C. From each applicant they ex-
pect and look for superior scholastic
performance, high character, whether’
his acceptance would further the wel-
fare of the University, the promise of
leadership from the boy, and evidence
of financial need.
The applicant also lists the extent
of his own education, his present
military status and military record (if
any). Among the 107 scholarship stu-
dents now at Notre Dame there are
Protestants as well as Catholics. They
read such books as Hilton’s Good-by
Mr. Chips and Kafka’s The Trial.
They’ll list among their honors, prizes
won and activities, such things as “sec-
ond place in a soap box derby,” “I
was a four-year honor student in high
school,” “ . . . a member of the glee
club,” “ . . . a thespian,” or “an altar
boy for my parish church.”
The Committee places a special em-
phasis on extra curricular activities.
And then where does the University
obtain the money to finance the
award? There are several sources. In-
dividuals (non-alumni as well as
alumni), corporations, and an increas-
ing number of N.D. Alumni clubs have
been contributing the necessary funds.
Notre Dame also has a small sum on
hand to aid such scholarships as those
for the sons of University professors
and employees. But not enough for
' the kind of “no strings attached” fund
that the University needs to assist
worthy and needy boys from all over
the United States to an education.
The two general' ways that money
4
Notre Dame
gifts are now available to Notre Dame
are: when an individual or corpora-
tion gives a certain sum and the Uni-
versity invests it and uses the interest;
or when an estate gives so much per
year. A gift of $100,000, invested at 4%
interest, would realize an income of
$4,000 a year for the financing of scho-
larships.
Take as a typical example the school
year of 1951-52. According- to Mr.
Richard Burke, ND’s Head Account-
ant, the total amount of endowed scho-
larships was $955,000. The annual
amount available for scholarships from
the earned income of this total was
about $66,000.
Of this sum around $49,000 was
from endowments while miscellaneous
scholarships accounted for about $17,-
000. There were 103 students sharing
in that ’51-’52 award. Of that number
only seven had all their fees paid while
six others received $1,000 each. The
commonest awards were twenty-three
for $200 and a like number for $300.
Other scholarship grants ranged from
$670 to $1,000.
Our typical applicant, Pat Murphy,
before entering ND might have tried
for one of the ten annual Reverend
James A. Burns Memorial Scholarships.
He would be obliged to complete the
official application and send in to the
Committee a transcript of his high
school credits. Also besides meeting the
general scholarship requirements Pat
would have to compete with hundreds
of other boys from all over the country
by taking the Scholastic Aptitude Test.
If he were among the chosen ten he
would receive $500 for his freshman
year. Then, if he could maintain an
average of at least 85% and meet the
other general stipulations, he could con-
tinue under some other award of $300
for his sophomore, junior and senior
years.
The other award might be one of
the three main kinds of scholarships
now offered at Notre Dame: Regional,
Restricted (special types), and Gen-
eral (the University can decide who
will get them). The Leonard N. An-
son Memorial Scholarship is a Region-
al award. Under its provisions it paid
for all the fees of four boys from Mer-
rill, Wisconsin, who attended Notre
Dame last year.
Others of the regional type are the
Meehan Scholarships. At the moment
five ND men (all juniors) from five
of the six Southern states specified
under the terms of the scholarship
have earned these competitive awards
Scholarships help students from all over the nation come to Notre Dame: (L. to R.)
Bob Gorman, Illinois; Gordon Berquist, Iowa; Tom Stubler, Pennsylvania; Bob
Howard, Kentucky.
of $1,000 apiece for each scholastic
year.
They are Webster Arceneaux of Mo-
bile, Alabama, Jerome Brainerd of
Amarillo, Texas, Daniel Bruce of
Memphis, Tennessee, Eugene Henry
of Arlington, Virginia, and Ronald
Vardiman of Louisville, Kentucky.
Georgia is the only state of the six
listed which is not now represented at
Notre Dame by an award winner.
Recently a seminarian became eli-
gible for the Reverend Thomas Car-
roll Scholarship which is restricted
to a young man studying for the priest-
hood from the Diocese of Erie. Other
restricted scholarships are those for
students in certain specified courses
of study or who are handicapped.
A typical General award is the
James J. Phelan Scholarship. During
the ’51-52 school year six boys, a senior,
two juniors, and three sophomores,
were receiving benefits under its pro-
visions.
Local Notre Dame Alumni clubs
have also been contributing to the
scholarship fund. The Akron, Ohio,
club helps two boys each with $250
a semester for four years. The Cleve-
land club is aiding two boys this year
with $125 per semester. The Indian-
apolis ND Alumni are assisting two
students with semester awards of $250.
And while most Alumni clubs give
several small scholarships to several
students, some, like the Denver organ-
ization, give a large award, of $700,
to one boy each year. The Regional
scholarships by the Alumni clubs are
a good and welcome thing. They not
only give the club a worthy project
but also draw the attention of the
youth in that area (the Pat Murphys)
to Notre Dame. Thus they assure in
the student body the greater geographic
distribution that the University desires.
But while scholarships help needy
students they do not directly aid the
University itself. They do not make up
the gap between student revenue and
the annual Notre Dame budget. They
are only an indirect aid to the Uni-
versity in so much as they help de-
serving boys and are an enrollment
underwriting.
“Lately scholarship donors have
come to realize this fact . . . that a
scholarship does not help a private
institution meet its budget deficit,”
says Father Mendez. “So Corpora-
tions such as Ford and RCA have
started giving with each scholarship an
extra $500 to the University to help the
school fill this gap.”
Thus Pat Murphys, Carl Schulers,
and Nathaniel Levisteins from Maine
to Texas, from California to New York,
can still go to college and even to
ND if they want to. Provided, of course,
that they have the ability and the in-
telligence necessary.
And this is due not only to those
clubs and corporations, to those gifts
and legacies that provide for scholar-
ships; but also to those which help
Notre Dame to expand and make avail-
able . . . “education foi' everyone.” ‘
Vol. 6 • No. 1
5
MOST important information for
this page, and you its readers,
seems to me to be the generous com-
bination of circumstances which have
permitted us to secure Rev. John J.
Cavanaugh, C.S.C., as Director of the
University of Notre Dame Foundation.
It was with more than just the
misgivings of a new President that I
saw Notre Dame facing the loss of
many friends, many channels of con-
tact which Father Cavanaugh had so
capably and charmingly developed
during his presidency.
And this alarm was multiplied
when I faced the information that
Mr. Frank C. Walker, former Chair-
man of the Foundation, had over-
served the term which his medical
advisers had reluctantly permitted him
to accept.
Now, happily, my Religious supe-
riors, and Father Cavanaugh, have
graciously recognized that perhaps no
work that he could do for Notre
Dame or the Congregation could
more appropriately challenge or more
fittingly reward our former President.
To assist him, we have had as-
signed Rev. Thomas O’Donnell,
C.S.C,. ’41, who will serve officially
as Assistant to the Director of the
Foundation. In order to reorganize
in this way, it was necessary to per-
mit Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C.,
who, as Vice-President in Charge of
Public Relations, had coordinated the
Foundation program with the alumni,
public information and public rela-
tions offices, to replace Father O'Don-
nell on the editorial staff of the
Catholic Boy.
To round out our work, and our
changes, Louis F. Burns, ’50, is devot-
ing part of his time in New York, 441
Lexington Ave., to handling the in-
tensive program of the Foundation
centering in New York, which was
formerly handled in the office of Mr.
Walker by John B. Kanaley, ’09. And
an advisory committee of seven promi-
nent alumni, organized by Mr. Walk-
er and Father Cavanaugh last Fall,
are continuing to serve the general
Foundation program.
Our objectives remain unchanged
— the tools that it takes for Notre
Dame to do well the job that she is
fitted and destined to do.
You saw the long-range outline in
our last issue of Notre Dame.
I would like to emphasize several
points:
We have building problems, which
are urgent and important. But they
are not our greatest problems. These
have been, are, and will continue to
be: the faculty and student body
equipped to accept the heritage of
Christian culture, to expand and
strengthen it, and to insure its secur-
ity for generations to follow.
For this we must have the resources
to hold our strong faculty members;
to attract good new men as we need
them; to permit the research and
conditions of scholarship necessary for a
good faculty to produce good students.
And we must have resources to per-
mit well qualified boys to choose
Notre Dame, and to come here in the
face of inadequate finances at home;
to permit boys of proved scholastic
stamina to stay here until their work
is done; to permit boys to study with-
out the mental and physical strains of
work beyond balance.
I do have one program of a build-
ing nature, about which you will hear
more. We can accommodate, with
crowding, only 3,400 of our 5,000
boys on our campus. As we resume
a more normal high school-to-college
pattern, we encounter more demand
for the boarding school facilities that
are in the essence of Notre Dame. So
I am looking for the opportunity to
construct two new residence halls and,
most desirably, a dining hall, on the
East campus, to ease the pressures of
this vital phase of our student living.
In the light of what Notre Dame
has done in the six years just passed,
it does not seem as formidable or re-
mote as it would have seemed to me
without the record of Father Cav-
anaugh’s administration, and the great
response to our plans from you, our
family afield.
With the cooperation of Father
Cavanaugh and Father O’Donnell in
the direct work of the Notre Dame
Foundation, I do hope that in this
Page, as the years move along, it will
be my privilege to dwell more and
more on what Notre Dame is doing,
as a result of your encouraging sup-
port, and less and less on the prob-
lem of “how can it be done.”
We will try to come closer together,
so that you can join me in seeing how
invaluable is your investment in to-
morrow, as Notre Dame’s stewardship
reveals it.
President,
University of Notre Dame
6
Notre Dame
MASTERPIECES
Masterpieces by Rubens and
Murillo are among twelve out-
standing sixteenth and seventeenth cen-
tury paintings on exhibition at the
Wightman Art Gallery on the Notre
Dame campus. One of the most im-
portant loan exhibitions held at Notre
Dame in recent years, the collection
includes the only extant portrait of
the infamous Lucrezio Borgia painted
from life.
Ten of the paintings are from the
excellent private family collection of
John F. Cuneo, president of the Cuneo
Press, Inc., Chicago. One was lent by
Richard E. Berlin of New York, form-
er president of Hearst Magazines, Inc.
The twelfth painting is being loaned
to the Notre Dame gallery by an an-
onymous collector. The current ex-
hibition is a recognition of the value
and interest of the permanent collec-
tion of the Wightman Gallery, Dr.
Goldblatt, curator of the Notre Dame
art gallery, indicated.
The Rubens painting, a part of the
Cuneo collection, depicts the Mother
of Christ, Saint John and the holy
women weeping over the body of the
Saviour after it had been taken down
from the cross. It was painted by Ru-
bens in 1614 and is considered an ex-
cellent example of the Flemish school
of art.
The familiar “Immaculate Concep-
tion,” a 17th century work of Barto-
lome Estaban Murillo, typical of the
Spanish school, is also a part of the
Cuneo collection. Other works includ-
ed in the Cuneo group are three
paintings by Gianpietrino, a sixteenth
century pupil of Leonardi da Vinci;
two paintings by the Roman artist
Sassoferrato; one by Bugiardini, an as-
sistant to Michelangelo; and repre-
sentative works of Innocenzo da Im-
ola and Giovanni Mansueti.
The “Madonna and Child with the
Flowers” by the sixteenth century Ital-
ian artist, Bernardino de Conti, is Mr.
Berlin’s contribution to the current ex-
hibition. An anonymous collector has
permitted Notre Dame to display the
portrait of Lucrezia Borgia by Barto-
lommeo Veneto. This painting has been
identified by Dr. Goldblatt as the only
known picture of the spectacular Ren-
aissance Duchess of Ferrara which was
painted from life. Two other oil por-
traits, one in Ferrara, Italy, and the
other in Nimes, France, have been
declared copies by art experts.
Vol. 6 • No. 1	7
, 1
4
J
INSPIRATIONAL touch of campus life is caught in this scene of a student praying at the Grotto of the Immaculate Concep-
tion. In promise to a granted request, it was erected under the sponsorship of Rev.Thomas Carroll, Oil City, Pa., in 1896.
M U R P H Y
by Janies E. Murphy
DON’T let that football lineup
fool you. Notre Dame still is
the home of the Irish.
There are three full platoons of Mur-
phys enrolled on the campus, ac-
cording to the latest Student Directory
just off the press. In addition to the
33 Murphys who constitute the largest
group of students with the same name,
several faculty and administrative
members belong to the Murphy clan.
The Kellys have the second largest
contingent on the campus with 23.
Reading like the roster of McNamara’s
Band, the Student Directory also in-
cludes 20 Sullivans, 19 Ryans, 17
O’Connors and Burkes, and an even
dozen Gallaghers.
Irish names have been prominent
ever since the University was founded
in 1842. Four of the seven Brothers
of Holy Cross who accompanied the
Rev. Edward Sorin, C.S.G., to the
northern Indiana wilderness were na-
tives of Ireland. Thirteen of the 15
Holy Cross priests who served as Presi-
dents of the University in 110 years
have been of Irish descent.
The Joneses, who usually hold their
own in any large group, can hardly
muster a corporal’s guard on the cam-
pus. There are only three Joneses
among Notre Dame’s 5,100 students.
There’s an Eisenhauer and a Richard
Nixon, too. At least one xAngel is study-
ing for a degree and a Moses and a
St. John are to be found on the cam-
pus.
Among the University’s 130 foreign
James E. Murphy is Director of
Notre Dame’s Department of Public
Information. He formerly was news
editor for the American Broadcasting
Company, Chicago, and also served
on the national public relation1; staff
of the American Legion. Mr. Mur-
phy graduated from Notre Dame
in 1947.
■
students are two who share the distinc-
tion of having the shortest names in
the Directory. They are Henry T. Oh,
a native of Indonesia, and Bernardo
Li, of Manila, P.I. The longest name
on the list is that of John James Dil-
enschneider, Columbus, O., whose 14-
letter name barely fits into his weekly
column in “The Scholastic.”
Heading the list of seminarians is
Norris E. Amen.
Part of the “33 Murphys" clan responds to Prof. Thomas N.
Murphy’s "class” roll
call as proof of the largest Irish group
at Notre Dame. (Photo by Dale Murphy)
Vol. 6 ® No. 1
9
►
4
Jla^uuKifiei
by Joseph Durkin
Joseph Durkin is a Senior in the
College of Arts and Letters. His home
is in New York City.
Langford protege Charlie Sampson
poses with coach on the Notre Dame
Courts. Sampson was NCAA finalist
with Pancho Segura in 1944.

"/riHE ONLY mistake Father
1 Sorin made was not putting No-
tre Dame in Texas/’ laughed Walter
Langford. Like a true Texan, Lang-
ford is greatly partial to his Lone Star
state, despite his spending more than
half his life on “foreign soil” working
at Notre Dame.
Langford, a product of the famed
Texas Panhandle, was born in the
small town of Haskell in 1908. His
family moved several times and final-
ly settled in McAllen, a small town
near the Mexican border. It was while
at McAllen he learned to speak Span-
ish. “I had to in order to play base-
ball with the rest of the children,”
explained Langford.
Langford left Texas and entered
Notre Dame as a freshman in Sep-
tember of 1926. After graduating
Magna Cum Laude in 1930 with a
Bachelor’s degree in English, he re-
turned home for a year. In that per-
iod he met his wife Alice, whose father
had gone to Texas from Kankakee, Ill.,
for his health. The following Septem-
ber Langford returned to Notre Dame
as an instructor. In the summer of
1937 he obtained his Master’s degree
in Modern Languages from the Na-
tional University of Mexico and was
awarded high honors. He was made a
full professor in 1943 and named head
of the Department of Modern Langu-
ages in 1946.
As head of the Department of Mod-
ern Languages, Langford has stressed
the practical spoken language more
than had been done in the past. To-
ward this end he supplemented courses
with audio-visual training and, in 1947,
arranged for Notre Dame students to
take summer courses at the University
of Mexico City. “This study in a for-
eign atmosphere is invaluable and the
SENOR LANGFORD
best means of teaching the student the
life of the people whose language he
is studying/’ asserted Langford. “It is
also a great step toward international
understanding.” Following this plan of
teaching the life of the people, Lang-
ford has introduced a foreign film ser-
ies. Since its start in 1948, over 50 full
length foreign films with English sub-
titles have been shown on campus on a
non-profit basis. This large number of
full length films makes the University’s
Modern Language Department the
leading sponsor of foreign film show-
ings among the country’s universities.
Langford also initiated the study of
the Portuguese language at Notre
Dame. At first there was little response
but, under his personal direction, it
has been on the upswing. At the mo-
ment only the first two years are of-
fered for study, both taught exclusive-
ly by Langford.
Langford, who created a name for
himself in local Texas tennis circles as
a youngster, took over as tennis coach
in 1940. Although he inherited a team
that had not been a winner for over
ten years, he had almost immediate
and phenomenal success and can boast
of unbeaten seasons in 1942, 1944, and
1947. Langford’s teams have been the
only Midwestern university to score
points on the Garland Bowl, a trophy
offered by the NCAA. One point is
given for each player reaching the
semi-final round of the NCAA tourna-
ment; Notre Dame now has six points
toward the twenty needed to retire the
trophy. In the past this trophy has
been dominated by schools from the
far West and the Southwest. In 1944,
perhaps Langford’s most successful
season, his team tied for the NCAA
team title with his number one man,
Charlie Sampson, reaching the finals.
He lost out there to none other than
Pancho Segura which is no disgrace.
At one time Langford became in-
terested in the tennis fortunes of Pan-
cho Gonzales, one of the top profes-
sional players of today. Then Gon-
zales was making headlines as a young-
ster in Los Angeles. Langford wrote a
letter to a West Coast alumnus asking
if Gonzales would be interested in com-
ing to Notre Dame on a tennis scholar-
ship. Before mailing the letter, Lang-
ford read a magazine article in which
Gonzales stated that he had never fin-
ished high school and that he had no
intention of doing so. The letter was
never mailed.
From 1947-1950 the fencing team had
been under the direction of Herb Mel-
ton, a law student. When Melton left
N.D., Langford filled the same post
which he had occupied in 1940-43.
He had no experience in the sport
prior to 1940, but learned all he could
by reading and watching. Langford
modestly claims, “This gave me an
advantage as I never had the oppor-
tunity to learn the wrong way and
fall into the bad habits of a par-
ticipant.” He must have a point
there because his teams have been
over two-thirds victorious and have a
high ranking in the NCAA. Among
Midwestern universities only the Uni-
versity of Chicago can point to a bet-
ter record, and Langford-coached
teams have defeated that university the
past two years.
At the end of each day’s work Lang-
ford returns to his home in South Bend
where he resides with his wife and four
children. His oldest child, Lois, a junior
at St. Mary’s, was the winner of a
scholarship awarded annually by the
St. Mary’s alumni club of South Bend
to the most deserving student in the
Coach Langford and members of his Fighting Irish fencing team—1953 version.
South Bend area. Walter, Jr., known
to all as Mac, is a sophomore at
Notre Dame and Jim is a sophomore
in high school. The youngest, Eliza-
beth, is only four.
Langford is unique as professors go.
It is difficult, if not impossible, to find
any student that has a gripe against
the way he had been treated in the
classroom. Langford has the slow pa-
tience of a Texan and the sternness of
an athletic coach. He is fair and un-
derstanding as a father of four children
must be. He never hesitates to go off
on a tangent if it will add to the in-
terest of the class by way of profitable
discussion. In fact, after three years as
a student of his, I rather think he en-
joys spinning a tale now and then, es-
pecially if it concerns the merits of
Texas. He has even been known to
concern himself in these discussions
with the fortunes of the White Sox.
He predicts great things for them this
coming season. By way of explanation
he says, “If anyone can bring them
home first, Paul Richards can. He’s
from Texas you know.”
Vol. 6 • No. 1
11

19 32
ric ketv
wars ago
ITTLL more than two
guard shack at the front en-
trance of the Univeisitv



GIFT ®r MR-&• MRS.

was the first building
greeted visitors to the
that
Notre Danie campus. Today, in the same
4
spot, the Morris Inn, the University's unofficial host, welcomes
travelers from .ill over the world to Notre’ Dame, Indiana.
The Morris Inn, ably staffed bv 75 employees, is the' i>ift of
the late Ernest M. Morris, graduate of the Class of ll’Oti, and Mrs.
Morris. Mr. Morris, founder of the Associates Investment Com-
panv, one of the largest of its kind in the country, was a constant
and generous benefactor to the' Universitv during his lifetime, and
member of the \ssociate Board of Lav Trustees, from l(G!f
sc'rvimr
world of
c omfort
are of
stands as
a pleasure
a credit
to Uni-
practical and lux-
urious elegant e.
as President from 11’47 to 11’41’.
No evidence’ of ostentatious design or ultra-modern
construction outwardlv glorifies the’ Morris Inn.
But within the' trim, 1’2-room, three-stor\
Guest rooms
building is a miniature
and unique' living that
to Notre’ Dame' and
versitv guests.
4
1



h a is a ?


by Daniel Boland
DillilJ K-daild - <1 f:,';'. ,]I tl;<
I	<>/	A'1 ♦ Dt’U'.t ul'd ’ i
'tailing hl* ^tudlt > fn, */’/< i>ll<
Hh Ih’Hh is in ( hi<
■
iisht down to the oiiomal Fiemh ie-
prints on the walA .md the 2leamins
Venetian blinds on th* windows. Fhii k
wall-to-wall laipctins and modestly
attractive fmnishinss mate the im-
pression of a livins loom tathei than
a hedioom File b'-d' .ire a< tualh
convertible studio c 01 y lies that blend
perfectly with the loom Fhe bed-
spieads appear to be upholstriv. and
the entile eusembh is so perfectly
harmonious that the absent e of tJ
conventional bed seems to stand out
as a ohiiine oyeisjoht.
August Backus, bell captain at the
Inn. relates the episode • 4 the be-
wildered tiavelinn salesman from the
Midwest who unwittinoh attested 10
the1 harmonious design. Completely
mystified as to just where the bed wa~.
he remained awake all niykt. <\peit-
ins someone to tome in anil pi>maie
the room lor him to iethe Ilie fol-
low ine moulins’ the exhausted cues; re-
leased his store of indisn ,mm to tlte
room clerk. "At least you t oidd h«.ve
siven me some sheets." he fumed
Each room is equipped with a ra-
dio. but lamer models than what weie
origin.div piovided aie now furnished
to <mests. Three of the earhei models
mvsteiiouslv disappear'd with 2ues[s
depaitmes. js have numeious Ush tiavs
and ball point pern, which ate ais >
supplied.
Mercmv switches tontml loom illu-
mination with the meiest whispet of
sound m plate of the usual s]eep-shat-
terins t lai k. so distastefully familial to
tonvent’onal fixture. Fhe absence of
oveihead lights tuts down <*e stiain
considerably, and the lame, decorative
lamps piove their worth as more than
end table ornaments.
Dinins facilities in the Moriis Inn
can accommodate a lone suest 01 160
diners at one time. 'Fhe s’eamms main
dinins room, which fronts on the 16
hole L'niveisitv yolf ionise. is tiered
into two levels, alloidins equal vision
lor all diners. Fhe huse full length
plate slass windows permit a wide
ramie of vision. Under the experienced
eve of Headwaiter Silas Fostet. who
fondh refers to the Morris Inn as
"the best hotel of its size east of Chi-
Vol. 6 • No. 1	13
cago and west of New York,” the main
dining room can table 125 meals at
one time. The large, private banquet
room with a capacity of 163 is di-
visible into three smaller rooms by
sliding doors.
Locker room facilities for male
guests who wish to play golf during
the summer months are to be found
in the basement of the Inn. A putting
green is conveniently located right in
the Inn’s back yard.
Since its dedication on April 21,
1952, by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,
C.S.C., the Morris Inn has served
countless guests and friends of Notre
Dame, among them Vice-President
The late Mr. E. M. Morris
Mrs. Ella Morris
14 Notre Dame
Nixon and Mrs. Nixon and Joe E.
Brown. The Inn received requests
for rooms during next year’s football
season even before the final whistle
this past Fall.
The interior decorating contract of
the Inn was handled by B. Altman
Company, of New York City who also
had another outstanding job this
past year—the White House.
For complete information on
rates and reservations please
write to:
Manager’s Office
THE MORRIS INN
Notre Dame, Ind.
Father Cavanaugh
Father Cavanaugh Named
Foundation Director
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
immediate past-president of Notre
Dame, has been appointed director of
the Notre Dame Foundation, Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., Uni-
versity president, has announced.
The Foundation, fund-raising divi-
sion of the University, was organized
six years ago at the beginning of
Father Cavanaugh’s term as president.
Rev. Thomas O’Donnell, C.S.C.,
former associate editor of the Catho-
lic Boy, will assist Father Cavanaugh
in his new position.
Father O'Donnell
A SYMPOSIUM:
"Soviet Cohuiih or Italian ImpeniiliMn?"
SOVIET RUSSIA was pictured as a nation whose fanatical leaders
resort to aggression rather than face squarely the domestic and foreign
problems which confront them. Various aspects of the Moscow menace
were examined by five experts on Russian affairs in a symposium on “Who
Is the Enemy—Soviet Communism or Russian Imperialism?”, sponsored
recently by Notre Dame’s Committee on International Relations.
Authorities from Harvard, Yale and Fordham joined Notre Dame
scholars in analyzing the real nature of the enemy. The Rev. Theodore
M. Hesburgh, G.S.C., president of Notre Dame, was chairman of the sym-
posium and Dr. Waldemar Gurian, head of the Committee on Inter-
national Relations, lead the discussion following the presentation of formal
papers. Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.G., vice-president in charge of aca-
demic affairs at Notre Dame, welcomed the speakers.
The Committee on International Relations, which is partially financed
by a grant from the Rockefeller Foundation, was established at Notre
Dame in 1949 to organize publications and direct research in the field of
international affairs. The chief concern of the Committee is the inter-
relation of religion, democracy and international order.
“Russia has not always been the belligerent villian she is today,” Dr.
N. S. Timasheff of Fordham University declared. Fie discussed “The
Difference between Tsarist and Soviet Policies.” Dr. Timasheff cited “the
formation of a girdle of satellites along Russia’s western boundary” as the
Kremlin’s contribution to the technique of imperialism. But Timasheff
maintained that the enemy is not Russian imperialism as such, but rather
the Communist motivation behind it.
Minorities within the Soviet Union enjoyed more freedom under the
Czars than under the current Communist regime, it was agreed by two
other participants in the symposium. Dr. Richard Pipes of Harvard’s
Russian Research Center pointed out that while literacy has increased
markedly among the Soviet Union’s twenty-five million Moslems under
Communist rule, hundreds of thousands of Moslems have been deported
to slave camps. “Any benefits which accrue to the Moslems and other
minorities are strictly a by-product of the Kremlin’s effort to develop a
skilled and productive manpower,” Pipes said.
Dr. Michael Pap of Notre Dame, assistant to the Committee on Inter-
national Relations and a native of the Ukraine, presented a paper on “The
Ukrainian Problem.” He speculated that non-Russian groups in the
Soviet Union, such as the Ukrainians, may prove to be the biggest weak-
ness in the Communist regime. “The West must encourage these op-
pressed peoples who may eventually become a secret weapon in forcing
Red Russia to her knees,” Pap declared.
Dr. Frederick Barghoorn of Yale University, who for five years was a
member of the American embassy staff in Moscow, related how the Krem-
lin leaders have “Usurped the traditional symbols of Russian nationalism
and have used them to make Communism palatable to the great masses
of people.” The exploitation of these national symbols and traditions by
the Communists has served to spur Soviet imperialism, strengthen the
unity of the Soviet empire and foster its cultural isolationism, Dr. Barg-
hoorn explained.
The Communists’ campaign to Russianize Polish culture after World
War II was described by Dr. Wiktor Weintraub, professor of Polish civili-
zation at Harvard. His topic was “Soviet cultural Imperialism in Poland.”
“The Communists moved slowly at first,” Weintraub stated, “but bv 1951
more than 50 percent of the books published in Poland were translations
of Russian works.” It wa» about that time, Dr. Weintraub added, that
Polish scholars who resisted were crushed and replaced by Communist
activitists.
Among several visiting Russian scholars who attended the symposium
were Professor George Garson, editor of the “Journal of Modern History,”
University of Chicago; Professor Nicholas Czubetyi, editor of “The
Ukrainian Quarterly;” and Professor Smal-Stocki, director of the Slavic
Institute of Marquette University.
Vol. 6 • No. 1
15

drea/L cMeaSv ^e!
Moot Court Is
Now In Session
Student Lawyers Learn by Doing
by Thomas C. l^Iurphy
Thomas C. Murphy it a Senior in
the Department of Journalism. His
home is in Green Bay, Wis.
■
HEAR Ye! Hear Ye! The Supreme
Court of Hoynes is now in session!
Thus Notre Dame’s Moot Court was
convened in the first semester of the
1949-50 school year; and it put into
practice the work and efforts of Pro-
fessor Robert E. Sullivan, in coopera-
tion with Professor Edward F. Barrett
and former Law School Dean Clar-
ence E. Manion. Since they wished the
court to be entirely a student affair,
the job of establishing the rules and
regulations fell to Henry M. Shine, Jr.,
a law student from Los Angeles, Cal.,
who received his Bachelor of Law de-
gree in June, 1951.
Shine wrote to various law schools
in the country, requesting information
regarding their Moot Courts. From
these reports Shine took what he, Sul-
livan, and Barrett thought to be the
best features. They added some of their
own ideas, named the Court after
Colonel William Hoynes, founder of
the present Law School and its Dean
from 1883 to 1923, and called it to
order.
Since its inception in 1949, Notre
Dame’s Moot Court representatives
have compiled an enviable record in
interscholastic competition. In four
Lawyers in action! Seniors engage in weekly two-hour practice court session.
16 Notre Dame
Joseph O’Meara, Jr., Dean,
College of Law.
years of participation, the Moot Court-
ers have won the regional champion-
ship at Chicago twice and appeared in
' the New York City finals both times.
The National finals, which are spon-
sored by the Bar Association of
New York City, offer prizes for the
winners and runners-up of the respec-
tive circuits. A silver bowl is awarded
to the first place team; and various
other individual prizes are offered for
the best brief and the best oral argu-
ment submitted.
Several leading members of federal
and state courts, including Justice
Jackson, and Justice Burton of the
United States Supreme Court, have
acted as judges in the National finals
competition.
Sullivan, executive secretary of the
Notre Dame Law Association and fac-
ulty advisor of the Court, attributed
Notre Dame’s success to the fact that,
“We advance the two best men, not
necessarily the winning team, from
each session. Other schools advance
their teams, which means that a weak
man may be carried by his stronger
partner. Our more democratic system
allows the final winners to face almost
all types of judges, gives them more
practice in the preparation of briefs,
and equips them with a more exten-
sive knowledge of the finer points of
the laws.”
Notre Dame’s Moot Court partici-
pants are members of the Seventh Fed-
eral Judicial Circuit — composed of
Wisconsin, Illinois and Indiana. Op-
ponents which they face in this intra-
District competition include: The Uni-
versity of Wisconsin; Chicago Univer-
sity; Loyola of Chicago; Marquette,
De Paul, Northwestern, and Indiana
Universities; and Chicago Kent. Spon-
sor of the Seventh Judical Circuit com-
petition is the Chicago Bar Association.
Eliminations at Notre Dame begin
each September and continue until the
finals, which are held during the Alum-
ni reunion in June. Only juniors in
the College of Law are eligible for com-
petition. Though participation is com-
pletely voluntary, Sullivan estimated
that 60 to 75 per cent of those eligible
take part in the court proceedings.
Moot Court work is based entirely
upon appellate cases that have been
heard before state and federal courts.
There are two teams in each session—
composed of four senior counsels
and two junior counsels. Each group
prepares a written brief on the case,
one supporting the lower court deci-
sion, the other contending that the
decision be reversed. Briefs are sub-
mitted to three judges. Each team is
then given thirty minutes for presen-
tation and ten minutes for rebuttal.
Following this procedure, each team
Officers Fisher, Murray, Murphy, Roche, Burke and Lally of the Student Law Ass’n.
is questioned by the judges and a deci-
sion is then handed down.
The decision is not based on the point
of law involved, but on the quality of
the written briefs, the oral arguments,
and the ability of the participants to
answer questions as posed by the
judges.
The two highest men in point count
advance to the next round as team-
mates, though they may have been on
opposing teams the round before. Win-
ners of the finals receive the coveted
Dean’s Award; and go on to represent
Notre Dame in the Seventh District
meet in Chicago.
Judges for the preliminaries include
a lawyer from South Bend, a faculty
member, and a senior in the Law
School. Sullivan explained that the
placing of a senior on the bench not
only sets the contestants more at ease,
but it also gives the senior judge ex-
cellent experience in judging cases and
a chance to work with top-flight men in
the profession.
In the semi-finals, two attorneys and
one faculty member preside; the finals
winners are decided upon by three
prominent judges or attorneys, all ex-
perts in their respective fields.
The case this year was prepared by
the Association of the Bar of New
York City and involves the question of
(Continued next page)
Vol. 6 • No. 1
17
Moot Court
(Continued from page 17)
“Whether a State may constitutionally
provide that persons who are not cit-
izens, or who are ineligible for citizen-
ship by naturalization shall not be en-
titled to own Real Property within the
state.” The plaintiff in this hypothe-
tical case claims that in doing so, the
state would be violating the UN cov-
enant which is a treaty duly ratified by
the U. S., and the “equal protection of
the laws” clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
These questions are assuming great
importance in view of several recent
State Court decisions invalidating such
state laws. The specific questions have
never been decided by the U. S. Su-
preme Court.
“We convened the Supreme Court
of Hoynes for one reason,” Professor
Sullivan explains, “to give our gradu-
ates experience in court work. I think
our record in court competition proves
our experiment a success.”
Miss Anne Markley, a niece of Mr. and Mrs. Fisher, formally presented the new
Fisher Hall, student residence building, to the University at dedication ceremonies
recently. Left to right: Miss Markley; Most Rev. Allen J. Babcock, Auxiliary Bishop
of Detroit; Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., president of Notre Dame.
Ford Foundation Grant
Received by Notre Dame ..............................................................
The University of Notre Dame has
received a grant of $23,600 from the
Ford Foundation to conduct a self-
study of its liberal arts curriculum,
accordinsr to an announcement re-
o
cently by the Rev. Charles E. Sheedy,
C.S.C., Dean of the College of Arts
and Letters. The purpose of the study
will be to determine the relationship
between theology and philosophy in
the Catholic liberal arts college and
the relationship of theology and phi-
losophy together with the other sub-
jects in the curriculum.
“We think it is not enough that
students should acquire the various
arts and sciences,” Father Sheedy said.
“The student, we are convinced, needs
that wisdom by which he is enabled
to discover how the various sciences
are related to each other, and how
all of them are related to the destiny
of man and the ultimate goals of life.
We are grateful to the Ford Founda-
tion’s Committee on College Self
Studies for this opportunity to im-
prove and develop at Notre Dame
this integrated education of the whole
man.”
Notre Dame's Brig.-Gen. J.P. Henebry Named
"One of Ten Outstanding Young Men of *52"
General Henebry has been decorated
with the Distinguished Service Cross
and Distinguished Service Medal be-
sides numerous other military awards.
Brig.-Gen. John P. Henebry, a
graduate of Notre Dame in 1940, has
just been honored as “one of the ten
outstanding young men of 1952” by
the U. S. Junior Chamber of Com-
merce. He is president of Skymotive
Aviation Management Corp., Kenil-
worth, Ill.
During World War II Henebry flew
over 200 combat missions in the Pa-
cific. He received acclaim as one of
the most able air officers of the War.
In 1948 he became the Air Force’s
youngest general at the age of 30.
Henebry was the commanding gen-
eral of the 315th Air Division which
was a combat cargo unit servicing the
Korean front. He became well-known
for his application of business eco-
nomics to the problems of military
air transportation and his compre-
hension of air cargo-transport activi-
ties.
18
Notre Dame
•/O4 X r, d • -i^aeey, Jr
484 V/. roster Ave.,	-
State College, Pa.	i
0
PRIN1FD AT AVE MARIA PRESS