Notr
4
£
Nieuwland Science
Hall
«
v-
8
10
>
President Hesburgh
David Condon .
Gate 14
James Gannon*
Notre Danie Agents in the FBI
Rudy Unger . . . \ .



lit


FALL • 1952
Ji
Commerce Experimental
Richard P. Cody .
National Congress of Religions
in the United States .

young men learn to lead
Coach Frank Leahy (top) and Captain Jack Alessandnm John Lattner
( 14) ND All-American halfback candidate m action against Purdue
The University of Notre Dame
Undergraduate School
The College of Arts and Letters * Department of Religion; Department of
’ Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Mod-
ern Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department
of Political Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Depart-
ment of Physical Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Depart-
ment of Speech; Department of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; De-
partment of Military Science; Department of Air Science.
The College of Science * Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering * Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department
of Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy;
Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing;
Department of Engineering Mechanics.
7 he College of Law.
The College of Commerce * Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
Graduate School
The Arts and Letters Division * Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department
of History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division * Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division * Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering;; Department of Electrical
Engineering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineer-
ing Mechanics.
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and
his Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
LOBUND Institute * Constitutes a research organization of fulltime scientists
effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micurgy, and Biological Engineering, which
is concerned with many basic and applied problems of importance to biology and
medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
President Hesburgh
Notre Dame’s Chief Executive Will Con-
tinue as Building Program Administrator
Mr. Condon graduated from Notre
Dame in the class of 1945 and is a staff
member of the Chicago Tribune. Notre
Dame is grateful to the Tribune editors
for permission to reprint this story.
BY DAVID CONDON
Father Ted Hesburgh, sitting on a
pile of bricks atop the half completed
building we had ascended, lighted an-
other cigaret. In soft tones he had told
plans for moving atom smashers into
the new science center nearby—and for
installing a juke box in the half com-
pleted liberal arts building beneath us.
Then his eyes centered on Notre
Dame’s legendary Cartier field directly
to the east.
“You get a fine view from this build-
ing,” he said laughingly, “but that sure
means the end of secret football prac-
tice.”
This reporter had spent four horns
with Father Ted, more formally known
as the Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C.
and this was the first mention of foot-
ball by the handsome priest who, less
than two months after his 35th birth-
day, was marking his first week as presi-
dent of the University of Notre Dame.
“We don’t apologize for our foot-
ball,” said Father Hesburgh. “Notre
Dame wants to be best in everything.
We want the best professors and the
best coaches.”
Father Hesburgh was steered into
administrative work by Father Cavan-
augh and became the former presi-
dent’s top lieutenant in 1949. In this
role he administered an $8,000,000
building program and shaped Notre
Dame’s athletic policies. His immediate
demonstration of ability convinced
alumni they could guess the name of
their school’s next boss.
A talent for squeezing the most
from a minute (or from a dollar) has
enabled Father Hesburgh to continue
as administrator of the building pro-
gram while assuming the president’s
duties. He also will continue to con-
duct a seminar law course with Judge
Roger Kiley of Chicago.
Traveling with Notre Dame’s foot-
ball squad two years ago, Father Hes-
burgh, relaxed in an athletic jacket,
was mistaken for a team member. This
mistake is not common, however, since
there are touches of silver in his jet
hair and, besides, football players gen-
erally have bigger frames than Father
Hesburgh’s 5 foot, 10 inch, 165 pound
physique. Football players also are un-
likely to pursue the writing of philos-
ophical books as a hobby.
On the other hand, few top college
executives ride in the cab of a diesel
locomotive, as Father Hesburgh was
doing when a trainman mistook him
for an athlete.
The questions most frequently asked
of Father Hesburgh since his appoint-
ment are: (1) How does a man be-
come head of a university at the age of
President	Years in Office	Age at Accession	Extraction
Rev. Edward Sorin (founder) 		......1842-1865	28	French
Rev. Patrick Dillon 		......1865-1866	33	Irish
Rev. William Corby 		......1866-1872	33	Irish
Rev. Auguste Lemonnier 		......1872-1874	33	French
Rev. Patrick Colovin 		......1874-1877	31	Irish
Rev. William Corby (2nd time) ....	......1877-1881	44	Irish
Rev. Thomas E. Walsh 		......1881-1893	28	Irish
Rev. Andrew Morrissey 			...... 1893-1905	33	Irish
Rev. John W. Cavanaugh 					1905-1919	35	Irish
Rev. James A. Burns			1919-1922	52	Irish
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh 			1922-1928	40	Irish
Rev. Charles L. O’Donnell 		......1928-1934	44	Irish
Rev. John F. O'Hara 				......1934-1940	46	Irish
Rev. J. Hugh O’Donnell 			1940-1946	45	Irish
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh 	—.	..	1946-1952	47	Irish
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh 				......1952-	35	Belgian-Irish
Father Hesburgh is the 15th President but in the 16th presidency,
because of the second presidency of Rev. William Corby, C.S.C.
35? (2) How did a priest with the Bel-
gian name of Hesburgh slip into a posi-
tion that almost traditionally has been
filled by Walshes, Cavanaughs, O’Don-
nells, O’Haras, and so on?
The jesting second question was an-
swered quickly. His mother was Irish
Father Hesburgh
Vol. 5 • No. 3
3
(Murphy), Father Hesburgh explained,
her parents coming from County Wex-
ford. He pondered the serious query.
“I guess it just happens,” he said
humbly. “I’ve wondered myself how I
became the one who pulls the strings.
The real responsibility is on the strings
—the academic and administrative
aids.”
What are the president’s future plans
for Notre Dame?
“Father Cavanaugh left a great im-
pact,” he said. “I’ll attempt to keep up
his work. A person can’t be too smug
when he takes this job because you
never know. You just give it what you
have. A college president should talk
about things after he does them. It isn’t
like politics, where you crow about
what you will do. You remember that
a tremendous number of great men
have preceded you and that you are in-
heriting what they have accomplished.
Fortunately, I can count on Father Ca-
vanaugh for help.”
The lack of moral integrity in to-
day’s world has convinced Father Hes-
burgh that a university must be in-
creasingly vigilant to discharge its
responsibility. This responsibility, he
sums up, means that from each student
must come a man of personal excel-
lence (with a developed and disciplined
mind), a man of professional com-
petence (measured against the most
exacting standards of his vocation),
and a man of social responsibility.
Because Notre Dame is a Catholic
university, the part of religion in edu-
cation necessarily was discussed.
“We do not hold that piety is a sub-
stitute for competence, but it should
not be divorced from competence,” he
said. “If a man is responsible to God
he will be responsible to his neighbors,
his family, and his country. Our em-
phasis on religion isn’t something that
is tacked on to the program, but a fiber
running through our entire educational
structure.
“We want religion to be important,
but we do not want it in a sentimental
or superficial way.”
He pointed out that Notre Dame’s
national alumni president and its for-
mer board of trustees chairman were
not Catholic and that non-Catholics
annually comprise between five and 10
per cent of the enrollment, which cur-
rently is 5,000. Priests and Brothers
comprise only about one-fourth of
Notre Dame’s faculty.
The life of Father Hesburgh is an
example of the person he believes a
university should develop. He reads
more than three books a week—some
of them laborious philosophical works,
others 25-cent pocket books grabbed
while waiting at an airport. The De-
troit airport, he believes, has the best
selection. Many times during the day
you can find him at prayer, but there
also are times when you can find him
ordering a double-dip chocolate ice
cream cone.
Father Hesburgh probably is the
finest bridge player—and the poorest
golfer—in the Notre Dame community.
Lack of time to practice golf has kept
his score over 100. The president ad-
mits one educational weakness — he
never learned to play poker well. He
can’t bluff.
Television programs, unless excep-
tional, rarely interest him, but he is
concerned about the effect of television
on education. He is a member of sev-
eral committees on educational televi-
sion and theorizes that the develop-
ment of television may have almost as
profound an impact on civilization as
the discovery of printing.
“You can’t say that television itself
will have a good or poor effect on us,”
he says. “Television is only a means of
communication. It is what will be com-
municated that will exercise the in-
fluence.”
In his residence quarters, an austere
bedroom, study, and bath, on the sec-
ond floor of ancient Corby hall, the
president lives .as any other priest, but
he doesn’t think his rooms should be
described as austere.
“You see, I’m not really austere,”
explains the president, who comes from
a moderately well-to-do family in Syra-
cuse, N. Y.
To live the day with Father Hes-
burgh, one would have to arise at 5
a.m. He is in meditation from 5:30 to
6 a.m. and during the next hour cele-
brates mass and says prayers. His
breakfast at 7 starts with coffee, orange
juice, and toast. Sometimes he has only
coffee.
Father Hesburgh with Colonel Gabreski, U. S. Air Force ace of World War 1! and
former Notre Dame student.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana. Entered as sec-
ond class matter May 10, 1948,
at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August
24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., ’37,
Managing Editor
Contributors’ views do not neces-
sarily reflect those of the Uni-
versity. Requests to reproduce
material in this magazine should
be addressed to the Editor.
Vol. 5, No. 3. Fall, 1952
4
Notre Dame
By 8 a.m, he is in his air conditioned
office in the second floor of the ad-
ministration building (where the build-
ing directory still lists Father Cav-
anaugh as president) and has a busy
appointment schedule until lunch. He
inspects the new construction immedi-
ately afterward and has a keen eye for
saving a dollar. This vigilance once
enabled him to reduce the cost of a
heating extension from the estimated
$98,000 to approximately $14,000.
Engineers had routed the extension
for 980 feet at $100 per linear foot.
Father Hesburgh suggested a rerouting
that cut the distance and cost in half.
Still not satisfied, he arose from bed
one night to telephone the engineer
with a routing plan that was even
cheaper. This was the shortest possible
route and the engineers figured they
had seen the last of the priest’s money
saving miracles. They hadn’t. Father
Hesburgh next started whittling down
the cost per linear foot. The final
saving was approximately $84,000.
Appointments, long distance calls,
and meetings are on schedule after
the midday building inspection. He
leaves the office at 5:15 for prayers un-
til 6. Then dinner. Recreation follows,
or so it is planned. Most often the rec-
reation time is taken up by business
visitors, telephone calls, another session
in the office, or, as at 9 o’clock last
night, a visit to a downtown hospital
when he suddenly remembered the uni-
versity’s librarian Paul Byrne, was con-
fined with a broken leg.
By 11 or midnight, at the latest, he is
reading in bed and has no trouble fall-
ing asleep. “My trouble,” he laughs, “is
in waking up.”
Yesterday’s compact schedule post-
poned the building inspection until
evening and he invited the reporter
along. The liberal arts building was the
first stop and the president set a fast
pace over and around stacks of bricks,
lumber and steel.
By the time the liberal arts building
had been toured, Father Hesburgh’s
companion will have learned that stu-
dent fees account for only 70 per cent
of a 10 million dollar annual budget,
that foreign universities generally place
more responsibility on the individual
student, that a Notre Dame boy has a
good chance of being stuck with a
homely girl when he accepts a blind
date, and that this fall’s football sched-
ule is a good one. He hopes, says Father
Father Hesburgh receives gift for scholarship fund from representatives of South
Bend's Junior Chamber of Commerce.
Hesburgh, that the football team is as
good as the schedule.
Young married students and their
small children wave as the president
drives you thru Vetville, the veteran
housing unit on the campus, and you get
the impression that of all Notre Dame,
Father Hesburgh likes Vetville best. He
was Vetville chaplain from 1946 to 1948
and frequently reminded the struggling
couples that they probably “never would
be as poor as they were then, and prob-
ably never would be as happy.”
The vets will tell you that Father Hes-
burgh worked overtime to preserve hap-
piness. He arranged dances for a 25
cent admission charge, then to keep
young wives from wrecking the family
budget in a clothes race, posted prizes
for the worst dressed couples.
With Father Hesburgh you inspect
the other new buildings. “You know,”
he says, hopefully, “what we need after
this program is complete is a real work-
ing library — one like they have at
Princeton. We’ll need more residence
halls, a student union building, and an-
other dining hall. We sure need a lot.
You interview others about their at-
titude towards the new president, and
find a trace of evidence that some older
members of the community may have
been disappointed at being by-passed
in Hesburgh’s rise to the top. Some fac-
ulty members express anxiety that the
emphasis on building may overshadow
other things.
Rev. Thomas Duffy, G.S.C., took a
Notre Dame mission band to Syracuse
in 1928 and met 11 year old Ted Hes-
burgh. Ted became a friend of the
priest and frequently corresponded with
him back at Notre Dame. By 1934 Ted
Hesburgh was at Notre Dame, studying
for the priesthood. Next he studied at
Gregorian university in Rome and re-
ceived his degree in philosophy. When
he was ordained to the priesthood at
Notre Dame in 1943, it is doubtful if
one student in 100 at Notre Dame
knew the young priest who, in nine years
would be president.
Father Hesburgh was chaplain of the
National Training School for Boys, a
federal reform school in Washington,
D. G., while studying for his doctorate
at Catholic University the next two
years.
In 1945, Father Hesburgh returned
to Notre Dame to stay. He stepped into
administrative work in 1948 as head of
the religion department. Appointment
as executive vice president came a year
later.
Miss Helen Hosinski, presidential sec-
retary for more than three years, sees
a resemblance between her former and
new bosses. “Naturally,” she says,
“Father Cavanaugh and Father Hes-
burgh worked together for so long.”
The secretary was asked if Father
Hesburgh had initiated any changes
when he took over the office.
“O yes,” Miss Hosinski said. “He
makes coffee. Father Cavanaugh never
made coffee!”
Vol. 5 • No. 3
5
The Father Nieuwland story was
written by Mr. William S. Calcott
shortly before the latter died this year.
Mr. Calcott, a member of the Science
and Engineering Council at Notre
Dame, was Assistant Chemical Direc-
tor for the Dupont Company—and a
loyal friend of the University’s. Dr.
George F. Hennion research chemist at
Notre Dame and a nephew of Fr.
Nieuwland’s is pictured at left. The
late Father Nieuwland is shown [right]
in his lab.
The writer’s first contact with
Father Nieuwland came as a result of
his paper presented at the Organic
Symposium in Rochester in 1925. Dr. E.
K. Bolton heard the paper and, being
interested in the possible use of divinyl
acetylene in the work then going on
at the Jackson Laboratory, aimed at a
process for making rubber, asked Father
Nieuwland to furnish us with the lab-
oratory procedure for the reaction in
question. But Father Nieuwland de-
clined to send it. He had no objection
to our having all the information in
his possession, but the hazards involved
in the preparation and handling of di-
vinyl acetylene were so serious that he
insisted the duPont Company send
someone to his laboratory, to receive
first-hand instructions and demonstra-
tions.
Accordingly, a few weeks after the
Rochester meeting, I arrived at the
University of Notre Dame and at
Father Nieuwland’s laboratory. Most
of the day was spent discussing the re-
action and compound he’d discovered,
both of which were entirely new. Ex-
perimenting with acetylene was old, of
course, but only one product had ever
been attained—an unusable material
known as “cuprene.” No one had
stopped the reaction of acetylene short
of the formation of this compound be-
fore Father Nieuwland.
It is interesting to note that the in-
vestigation which resulted in the for-
mation of divinyl acetylene was not be-
gun with any such objective in mind.
Father Nieuwland had been for some
time a consultant for the Shawinigan
Corporation, one of whose main pro-
ducts was acetaldehyde. The most ex-
pensive material used in their process
was mercury, and even slight losses were
a serious cost item. Since copper in
many respects is similar to mercury,
Father Nieuwland tried to substitute it
for mercury. To his disappointment,
however, he obtained no acetaldehyde
whatever. But when he attempted to
isolate any acetaldehyde that might
have formed, he noticed a peculiar
odor. In spite of his extensive acquaint-
ance with organic compounds, he was
unable to place it, or to recall any odor
resembling it. The only conclusion was
that he had formed a new compound.
With the strange odor as his only
guide, he started modifying the experi-
mental conditions in an attempt to pro-
duce the new compound in at least suf-
ficient quantity to isolate and identify.
It was a tedious and difficult investiga-
tion. Many changes resulted only in the
complete disappearance of the odor.
Little time or assistance was available
for the research, and much of it was
carried out at night.
Finally, however, he succeeded in ob-
taining reasonable quantities of the
new compound. Examination of its
properties led to the conclusion that it
was one of two compounds obtained
from experimenting with acetylene, di-
propargyl or divinyl acetylene. For sev-
eral years the problem remained at
this point, as he was unwilling to pub-
lish any data until he could prove the
formula of his new compound. Fin-
ally he was able to establish its iden-
tity as divinyl acetylene, and presented
his paper at the Organic Symposium.
Another incident illustrates the sim-
ple world in which Father Nieuwland
lived. It contained only two kinds of
people, the right kind and the wrong
kind. No grays, only blacks and whites,
existed in his classification. This show-
ed clearly when it became desirable in
(Continued on page 18)
6 Notre Dame
(Yu id
Matt
ax
ax
irsH



_	S5s... c Ms
WENTY years after Father Julius
Nieuwland’s scientific nose was
first twitched by an unfamiliar odor,
the product of his research—synthetic
rubber—helped win a war and provide
many household articles now common-
place in the American home. And twen-
ty years after his old, jumbled labora-
tory—still preserved in its original con-
dition—became the scene for one of
the great chemical discoveries of the
century, a modern science building now
stands to foster research of the future.
Appropriately enough, it has been nam-
ed the Nieuwland Science Hall.
The new science building, erected
at a cost of $2,500,000 from funds pro-
vided by alumni and non-alumni
friends of Notre Dame, was opened
for classes and research this Septem-
ber. In every respect the Nieuwland
Science Hall should be a worthy home
for the scientific achievement that
characterizes Notre Dame.
!
j Notre Dame Agents in the
ALMOST anyone who steps onto
_xVthe front porch to pick up the
morning paper will find in it such items
'	as “George and Walter McGee were
apprehended for the kidnaping of Mary
''	McElroy as a result of investigation by
“j	G-Men and the Kansas City Police De-
partment/’ or “David Greenglass, 28-
;	year-old former Young Communist
‘	League member who, while in the army
:	and working at the atomic bomb pro-
*	ject in Los Alamos, New Mexico, in
i	1945, allegedly passed on atomic sec-
;	rets destined for Russia, was arrested
yesterday by the FBI on espionage
. <	charges.”
Day in, day out, night in, night
, i	out, as the nation goes about its every-
<	day living, a group of unnoticed, effi-
]	cient investigators quietly go about
their task of protecting the welfare and
i	security of America. To kids in play-
J	grounds they are known as G-Men; to
] the movie-going public they’re usually
•	the FBI; officially they are Special
Agents of the Federal Bureau of Inves-
tigation—the finest law enforcement
body in the history of mankind.
Approximately 133 of these agents
/ are Notre Dame men!
As an investigative arm of the De-
partment of Justice, headed by the At-
torney General, chief legal officer of the
United States, the FBI has a twofold
/	function, being both a fact finding
■*	agency and a service agency.
It investigates violations of Federal
laws, seeking out fairly and impartially
the facts. These are presented to the
Attorney General and his aides, the
United States attorneys, who decide
whether or not the people involved are
to be brought to trial.
It also serves in assisting local law
enforcement agencies in identification
and technical matters.
In order that it might fulfill this
double function with the greatest effi-
ciency, speed and accuracy, the FBI
operates on a nation-wide network. Di-
vided into 52 field divisions, each under
a Special Agent in Charge—and central
headquarters, under the Bureau’s Direc-
tor—this system has been so effectively
set up that within one hour a special
agent can arrive at any point in the na-
tion where his services may be needed.
“Elements which would destrov
American liberty are at work in Amer-
ica today,” are the words of the Bu-
reau’s chief, J. Edgar Hoover. “These
elements are the criminal and the sub-
versive.”
“The criminal is a vicious hoodlum
intent upon advancing his own preda-
tory interests at the expense of the in-
nocent citizen.” Whenever one of these
hoodlums violates a federal law within
its jurisdiction the FBI’s agents swing
into action, working out of central
headquarters through such agents as E.
H. Winterrowd, a Notre Dame gradu-
ate of 1940, who serves as an assistant
to the head of the Investigation Divi-
sion.
Constant contact is maintained be-
by Rudy Unger
Mr. Unser wrote the FBI article
while a student at Notre Dame. It was
previously printed in the Notre Dame
Scholastic. The editors are grateful to
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover [inset] for his
cooperation.
tween Washington and the chiefs of the
Bureau’s field divisions; men such as
Richard Hosteny, Notre Dame ’33, who
is Special Agent in charge of the
Springfield office. Hosteny, in his posi-
tion, is responsible for the direction of
FBI activities in a large portion of the
State of Illinois.
To provide local law officials with
every possible aid, the Bureau readily
offers them the use of its scientific crime
detection laboratory and Identification
Division in Washington. The Bureau’s
fingerprint files in Washington contain
over 125,000,000 sets of fingerprints,
the largest collection in the world.
Regarding the other public enemy,
the subversive, Mr. Hoover says that
“There are more than 24,000 conspir-
ators, trained in deceit and subterfuge,
who today are fanatically attempting to
deliver the United States into the or-
bit of Communistic control which now
envelops more than one-third of the
world’s population. Highly organized
and militant, they comprise a plotting
8
Notre Dame
group that follows the whims and dic-
tates of a foreign master — they are
members of the Communist Party,
United States of America.
“The FBI, by presidential directive,
is charged with responsibility of leading
the fight against those forces which
threaten the internal security of the na-
tion.”
In Washington, in the Domestic In-
telligence Division of the Bureau, there
are a number of agents who are Notre
Dame men. Six of these: W. A. Brani-
gan, ’38; R. H. Egan, ’38; A. B. Fipp,
’41; J. E. Foley, ’31; J. T. Harrington,
’32; and J. F. Wacks,
visors. This group has
’35 are Super-
vital part
a
m
has
the
outstanding pistol marksmen and
served as a firearms instructor on
FBI academy staff.
Harvey G. Foster (outline photo) is
FBI Special Agent in El Paso, Texas.
Mr. Foster received an LL.B, degree
from Notre Dame in 1939 and is presi-
dent of the Notre Dame Alumni Asso-
ciation—composed of 22,000 gradu-
ates and former students. He played
guard on the ‘Fighting Irish’ varsity
football team for three years. Mr.
Foster is famed as one of the nation’s
protecting our internal security against
subversives.
In the previously-mentioned Green-
glass arrest, the officer in charge was
Edward Scheldt, formerly Special
Agent in Charge of the New York Divi-
sion and now in charge of the Detroit
Office. Bill Whelan, Notre Dame ’34, Is
an Assistant Special Agent in Charge
of the New York Office. There are
eleven other agents with the New York
Division who claim Notre Dame as
their alma mater including such agents
as Tony Maloney, ’43, who in his
Senior year collaborated with Bill Leon-
ard, Frank Conforti and agent Ollie
Hunter in setting the American In-
door Track Record for four miles at
17:31.1.
In one of the opening paragraphs the
statement was made that “the FBI is
the finest law enforcement body in the
history of mankind.” Although to some
that may appear somewhat rash and
glamorous, a look at the facts will veri-
fy its truth. In the fiscal year 1952.
9,036 convictions were brought about
in cases handled by the FBI. This rep-
resents a percentage of 97.2 of all the
FBI cases brought into court; 92 per-
cent of these convictions were based on
pleas of guilty by the defendants.
The answer to this amazing efficiency
and competence lies in the FBI agents
themselves and the training they re-
ceive.
Special Agent applicants must be
graduates from resident law schools or
graduates from accounting schools with
at least three years of practical account-
ing and/or auditing experience. Appli-
cations no longer are accepted from
men possessing merely four-year de-
grees from accredited colleges.
In all other respects candidates must
meet the requirements set for the posi-
tion of special agent, such as age (25-
(Continued on page 16^


Vol. 5 • No. 3
9
,4—2.
Ticket Manager Cahill
Keeps Fans Happy
by James Gannon
“T t’LO . . . Gate 14 . . . That’s
I I right—2 o’clock.”
“Gate 14 . . . You WHAT? ... I’m
sorry, this is the Stadium box office.”
At the ticket window, a woman is
telling her often-heard tale of getting
separated from her party. “You see,
they have the tickets and I don’t know
how in the world I’ll ever find ’em.”
“Just a minute, please,” replies the
ticket seller. “I’ll call the Ticket Man-
ager. Bob . . . Hey, Bob . . .”
Another phone rings. “Yes, this is the
Stadium . . . Sorry, ma’am, the game’s
sold out. . . . I’m afraid the Ticket
Manager won’t be able to help you out
either. There just aren’t any tickets left!
. . . You’re welcome.”
At the sound of muffled knocks on
the door, an armed guard peers through
the peephole. “Sorry, there’s no one al-
lowed in here. . . . Okay, okay . . . I’ll
get the Ticket Manager.”
This is Gate 14, the Stadium box
office, on a typical Saturday afternoon
The author is a senior in the Depart-
ment of Journalism. He is from Dixon,
III.
of a home football game at Notre
Dame. But this is only a small fraction
of the hectic activity that takes place
in the small brick room at Gate 14.
Some ten or twelve men—messengers,
policemen, ticket sellers and clerks—
make up the small but hustling crew
that handles everything from lost tic-
kets to lost children.
There is one person who handles the
delicate situations and makes decisions
on countless problems that arise. This
is the Notre Dame Ticket Manager,
Mr. Robert Cahill.
Probably the toughest aspect of Mr.
Cahill’s job at Gate 14 is to keep every-
body happy. “To many thousands of
fans,” says Mr. Cahill, “the only con-
tact with the University is the Stadium
crew. That’s why we’re especially court-
eous.” But it’s not always easy. “At
times,” he says, “emergencies are a very
delicate task, especially at kick-off
time.”
Many unusual things occur at the
Gate 14 office on the .afternoon of a
football game. Sometimes they’re hil-
arious, sometimes sad.
A couple of years ago, a young lady
called from Mankato, Minnesota, to
find out if the band played requests at
half-time. Thinking it was a joke Mr.
Cahill replied, “Why sure. What would
you like?” “ ‘Let Me Call You Sweet-
heart,’ ” she said. “You see, this is my
first wedding anniversary and my hus-
band is there at the game. I thought
it would be nice if you could dedicate
the number to him.”
The Ticket Manager then realized
that this woman was serious and so he
quickly explained that the band has its
program planned well in advance.
“That girl was really in love,” he con-
cluded.
Mr. Cahill arrives .at the box office
around nine o’clock the morning of a
game. About that time the cash used
for making change by the sellers arrives
from a South Bend bank. If there are
tickets to sell at the game, and this
doesn’t happen too often, they are
checked and distributed to the sellers
who are ready to take their station at
the various Stadium gates by 12 noon.
At 12:30, the Gates are opened and the
rush is underway. From this point on
anything can happen, and usually does,
at Gate 14.
The Ticket Manager recalled a uni-
que incident that occurred at the Army
game in 1947. Just before the game, a
man came to the box office window and
wanted to see the Ticket Manager per-
sonally. “He was from Philadelphia,”
Mr. Cahill remembers, “and he whip-
ped out a small box containing the
charred remnants of two tickets. There
10 Notre Dame
c4Meiia^e from
Jatlier JJe^burgh
to atlumni
ana
Other Jriendi
of .Notre dbame
Office of-the President
Dear Alumni and Friends of Notre Danes
Many people have asked how it feels to be
president of Notre Dame. The best I can say is that the feeling re-
minds me of my first few days as a priest. It is basically a humbling
experience. The new priest suddenly inherits the respect of millions
of people, a respect that has been earned by centuries of many good men
who have gone before and done good things.
The new president is also humbled by what he
has inherited at Notre Dame. True, there are yet many things to be done
at the University, but here, too, we have inherited a tradition of team
work that is actually in operation at the moment.
One great source of confidence for the new
Administration is the Notre Dame Foundation. I can remember how, four
years ago, my beloved predecessor, Father John J. Cavanaugh, inaugurated
a ten-year program to bring $25,000,000 to the University. 'While every-
one admired his vision, I am sure that few would have suspected that four
years later he would be right on schedule, with $10,000,000 already achieved.
Our deep gratitude and sincere prayers go out to the many alumni and friends
who have made the Foundation Drive a success thus far. I know you will all
be happy to learn that Father Cavanaugh will be assisting us in this work.
While we look backwards in gratitude, we must
also look forward in confidence and hope. We still have some of the noimal
brick and mortar needs to fill out the educational facilities of the Univer-
sity, whose student body has expanded almost doubly these past ten years.
We have equally crying academic needs to assure us that educative processes
in the new buildings are on the highest academic level. In the same spirit
of gratitude and hope, I am enclosing a chart of our past accomplishments
and present needs.
We are convinced that Notre Dame is already
graduating hundreds of young men each year who are not only professionally
competent, but have the superior training in mind and will that should make
them the morally responsible leaders of tomorrow. But we can do even better
work if we can have an ever better faculty, with better facilities, an ever
deeper commitment to our providential role in America today, and the con-
tinued blessings of God and Our Lady who have guided our destinies thus far.
We are happy to have all of you associated with us in the realization of
our hopes, and trust that you, in turn, will share our blessings, now and
forever.
Veiy sincerely yours,
(Rev.) Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.
President
The 1948 $25,000,000 Long-Range Program
I. Buildings.
II. Support and Augmenting of Teaching Staff.
1.	Residence halls — four residence halls and a grad
uate hall.
2.	A Student Union Building.
3.	College of Arts and Letters Building.
4.	Fine Arts Building.
5.	Chemistry Building.
6.	Memorial Library.
7.	Bacteriology Laboratories.
8.	Physics Building.
9.	Field House.
10.	Memorial Chapel.
III.	Student Aid Program.
IV.	Special Funds — teachers retirement, employee pen-
sions, library needs, support of learned publications.
V.	General Unrestricted Endowment — Notre Dame in
1948 ranked 93rd among the colleges and universi-
ties of the United States.
NOTRE DAME HAS ACHIEVED (from 1948)
Approximately $8,000,000 in gifts, and $2,000,000 in
industrial and government grants for research including:
I.	Buildings.
1.	The Fisher Residence Hall.
2.	The Science Building, with provision for Chemistry,
Physics and Mathematics.
3.	The I. A. O’Shaughnessy Building of Liberal and
Fine Arts.
4.	The Lobund Laboratory for large-scale colonies of
germ free life.
5.	The Morris Inn.
6.	The recently announced Student Union in the old
Science Hall.
II.	Faculty Aid.
1.	Rockefeller Grant for the Committee on Interna-
tional Relations.
2.	Damon Runyon Fund for Lobund.
3.	The General Program of Liberal Education.
4.	Elevation of Lobund to Institute status.
III.	Student Aid Program.
1.	The Fisher Student Loan Fund of $250,000.
2.	The $1,200,000 Fisher Art Collection.
3.	Increasing scholarships and fellowships from Notre
Dame Clubs and industry.
IV.	Special Funds.
1.	A faculty retirement plan.
2.	Natural Law Institute Grants.
V.	General Endowment.
1.	By the aid of the investment counsel of the Lay
Trustees endowment has increased 78%.
NOTRE DAME STILL MUST HAVE
I.	Buildings.
1.	A graduate hall, some residence halls, an auxiliary
dining hall, and a priests’ residence.
2.	A Library.
3.	Supplementary laboratories for bacteriology.
4.	A Field House.
5.	Maintenance Building.
II.	Support of Teaching Staff.
1.	Endowed professorships.
2.	Distinguished service professorships.
3.	Visiting lecturer funds.
4.	Research and travel funds for faculty members in
advanced studies.
III.	Student Aid.
1.	Additional scholarships.
2.	Additional fellowships.
3.	Post-doctoral scholarships.
4.	Additional loan funds.
IV.	Special Funds.
1.	Library maintenance and book purchases.
2.	Subsidy of learned publications.
3.	Employee (non-teaching) pension plan.
V.	General Unrestricted Endowment — Notre Dame still
ranks only 64th among colleges and universities.
For further information write to
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
Notre Dame, Indiana
was just enough left of them to see the
seat location and that they were Army
tickets. He certainly was pleased when
we let him go through since he wanted
to see the game so badly.” It seems that
his little boy had thrown the ducats in-
to the fireplace.
Soon after the game gets under way
the ticket sellers check in with the head
teller at the box office. The money is
then counted and wrapped and a re-
port is made by the teller. About a half-
hour before the game ends a Brink’s
armored car hauls the currency away.
Actually, most of the ticket crew is
through by the end of the first quarter.
The main seller at the Gate 14 window
sells tickets for future games until after
half-time.
The Ticket Manager, however, stays
in the Stadium box office for the en-
tire ball game. Consequently, he never
sees a game in the Notre Dame Sta-
dium. And there have never been any
exceptions to this. In fact, the Ticket
Manager has to go to an away game
to see the “Fighting Irish” play ball.
On the average he witnesses about two
games a season.
During the 1948 and ’49 seasons, a
television set was installed in the main
office. That was back in the “good old
days” when every Notre Dame home
game was televised. But now that the
NCAA has moved in on football tele-
vision, the TV set has been moved out.
One of the Ticket Manager’s many
duties is taking emergency calls and re-
laying them to the public address sys-
tem. These emergencies can be of any
nature: illness, accidents, calls for doc-
tors, cars with the doors locked and
the motor running, lost children, and
even death. “Most of these emergencies
arise at kick-off time,” says Mr. Cahill,
“when there is a general hubbub and
everyone is excited.” But there are
many that come well after the opening
whistle has sounded.
Last fall, for example, there was a
call from a lady in Gary, Indiana, who
wanted to get hold of her boss, a cer-
tain real estate man, who was at the
game. “Is it an emergency?” asked the
Ticket Manager. “Yes,” she replied.
“Well, just what is the nature of this
emergency?” Mr. Cahill asked. Ex-
plaining that she was the secretary of
this man, she said, “At least, I think
it’s an emergency since his office was
broken into and the vault was robbed!”
After agreeing with the frightened
lady that it certainly was an emergen-
cy, Mr. Cahill notifed the PA an-
nouncer to have the real estate man
report to Gate 14 immediately. When
he arrived the Ticket Manager told
him the story. The man’s reaction was
somewhat shocking and yet amusing.
“Maybe it is an emergency,” he said,
“but there’s not much I can do about it
now. So I guess I might as well go
back and watch the game.”
“With the advent of TV,” says Mr.
Cahill, “we get many calls from people
who think they spot weaknesses in one
or the other teams while watching the
game on their sets and they want to tell
Coach Leahy all about it.
“During the SMU game last Octo-
ber Mel Allen was doing the telecast
of the game and he mistated the home
town of an SMU boy from Beaumont,
Texas. Well, we got a call from Beau-
mont and they said, “Please tell Mistuh
Allen that boy is fum Pay-xus, not
Missour-a.”
Soon after the last whistle has blown
more than 50 thousand people quick-
ly depart, leaving behind newspapers,
programs and other debris scattered
here and there, and Mr. Cahill and
his assistants lock up and go home.
This is Gate 14 — with its “Grand
Central Station” atmosphere — where
telephones ring like mad, and people
claim lost tickets and lost children.
It’s the Ticket Manager’s small but
busy kingdom — and to think that he
never even sees the ball game!
Mr. Cahill (left) and his assistant Mr. Thilman handle thousands of football ticket requests for Irish fans.
*
1
H
180
i.
7,
ommerce
£'^&ilin&ntal PfuiGAjatn
Xast Week
2§7 «
-.. 329.545,000 O0Q
loans $21,671,000,000
x	104,655
132,280
W* <38,350
ndebd
timent
favora
deucy
. o. Alft imrinr

"'^rrW/^AMfj Continued Erom Pa^»
V	triTAX V XLXUXVa 1
WEEK ENDED oct, 11, 1952 ’'
Iffy
>oj
$5-
Previous Weel
* '	2S7
$29,417,000,0'
$21,606,000,^
8	105
2,
6,
, .	&
\y	$
/	$
»£
.	3S3% 3s 4
S, $
f w
S w
2 3S3g &&
12#

by Richard P- Cody
The College of Commerce, in the
academic year 1951-52, began an ex-
periment to explore new means of ful-
filling its responsibilities to its students
and society. In February, 1952, sixty-
three Freshmen, upon completion of
one semester in the College’s regular
courses, decided to participate by vol-
untarily transferring to the "Experi-
mental Program for Administrators.”
■
'VYTTITH this matter-of-fact para-
graph, the 1952-53 bulletin of
the University’s College of Commerce
began its description of what may some-
day amount to an important advance-
ment in practical education at Notre
Dame. For basically, the Experimental
Program for Administrators is an at-
tempt to integrate a broad liberal arts
education, a broad business education
and specialized business training in an
Mr. Cody is a staff member of the
Notre Dame Alumni Association office
and a 1952 graduate.
undergraduate school, to help men be-
come “competent Catholic administra-
tors in business.” While it is true that
these concepts are common to all in-
struction and programs in the College
of Commerce, the Experimental Pro-
gram seeks to achieve its objectives by
introducing new teaching techniques
and methods.
It is the element of specialized train-
ing which differentiates the program
most distinctly from the other new
“baby” with which it is often associ-
ated—the General Program of Liberal
Education initiated in the College of
Arts and Letters some months ago.
The General or “Great Books” Pro-
gram places its emphasis on detailed
study of the Christian classics, while
the Experimental Program combines
broad education with practicability.
As Dr. James W. Culliton, Admin-
istrative Head of the new program,
explains, “Business executives say they
want men with a broad education. But
the personnel manager who does the
hiring wants to know what you can do.
The Experimental Program is intended
to train men who can do something
and have an approach to business situ-
ations which will enable them to grow
quickly into positions of responsibility.”
And so, in line with Notre Dame’s con-
cept of the “whole man,” or as Dr.
Culliton phrases it, the “integrity of
man,” each graduate of the program
will have his liberal background of
philosophy, history, economics, religion
and related subjects, as weL' as a lib-
eral business education, which together
can safely support a specialized skill
in one particular area of business. In
this fashion he is offered training to
help him get, retain and advance in
his new job. The fields offered in-
clude finance, marketing, production
and personnel management.
In speaking of this program, two
words must constantly be kept in mind.
They are “experimental” and “new.”
The program is experimental only in
the sense that it puts new concepts into
practice. Its experimental nature does
not detract in any way from the qual-
ity of the education, and the program
offers a B.B.A. degree (Bachelor of
Business Administration) to those who
successfully complete the course. Since
the four-year program was initiated less
than a year ago and as yet has pro-
duced no graduates, it must be regarded
as an experiment. Some indication of
the potential with which it is credited
12
Notre Dame
-


however, may be gained from the fact
that the faculty was increased from
six to ten during the summer, and that
Freshman entrance applications in-
creased by a third over last spring’s
total.
And the program is new—so new
that its essence may at first be difficult
to grasp. There is no one feature which
distinguishes it from other courses;
rather must it be seen as a whole to
find where it departs from the tradi-
tional. But if a single word had to be
used to describe the program, it prob-
ably would be “integration,” with each
element that makes up an education—
student, teacher, subject matter — in-
tegrated internally and with the other
elements.
Integration grows out of the integrity
of the student as a man. Continual ef-
fort is exerted by the faculty to define
what the student should be like, in
order to be a competent Catholic ad-
ministrator in business. Then all the
program’s activities are checked to see
if they are moving in that direction.
Responsibility for helping the student
in all phases of his final requirements
is shared by all the faculty members.
The ability to write, for instance, is not
solely focussed in the English course,
but is accepted as the job of every pro-
fessor. And the students are expected
and encouraged to carry experience and
concepts from one class to another.
They are taught to work together by
being associated together. They take
most of their classes as a single group.
Studying as a member of that group
has been made an essential part of the
program, designed to give experience
in getting along with others. In the
same way is the faculty integrated by
association. They, too, operate as a
group, holding weekly meetings to dis-
cuss how the courses can be tied more
closely together, and the progress of
the individual students. The courses
are related one to the other—economics,
for example, is tied up with history,
and with religion by way of human re-
lations.
Like other programs in the College
of Commerce, the new program adds
up to a planned, four-year course de-
Dr. James W. Culliton, (1) Adminis-
trative Head of the new program, and
Dean James E. McCarthy (photo on
page 12). Other photos depict faculty
staff meeting and classroom scene.
signed to give students some of the
qualities possessed by successful admin-
istrators. Qualities such as the ability
to think, speak, read and write effec-
tively; the ability to analyse situations,
come to conclusions and take respon-
sible action; the ability to get along
with people and to organize one’s own
and other people’s work; and the abil-
ity to learn from experience, so that
the student will realize his education
is far from over the day he leaves
school.
To find out whether these objectives
can be achieved in an undergraduate
school—and if so, how—is the purpose
behind the Experimental Program for
Administrators. The curriculum devised
to attain the desired end is based upon
a number of conclusions, several of
which have already been enumerated:
courses should be designed to give every
graduate the start of becoming a broad-
ly educated man; a foundation in all
aspects of business is considered essen-
tial, as is a special, immediately useful
skill; room must be left the student to
take elective subjects he would enjoy,
since the “logic of curriculum plan-
ning” can be overdone; in the Senior
year an attempt should be made to
help the student integrate his courses
into a way of life, by means of such
subjects as business ethics, business pol-
icy, and the relationships between busi-
ness and society.
The ten-man staff which puts these
conclusions into practice includes Dr.
Culliton, who teaches Human Rela-
tions; Father James Smyth, Theology
and Philosophy; Professor Edward
Schnadig, Marketing; Prof. Joseph
Ryan and Prof. William Burke, Eng-
lish ; Mr. Paul Pressler, C.P.A., Account-
ing; and Messrs. John Dunne, William
Huebsch, Fred Nemmers and Mario
Gutierrez, Mathematics.
Perhaps the man most instrumental
(Continued on page 17)
3EEICSBI
■■ ...........Him iwiimii .................■Ill 11 MiiiiiiiBii’Tiiiiiiiii JHiffllii l Lil. . . 'l.'l....................
I-...
Vol. 5 • No. 3	13
Over 100 temporary altars were set up in the Administration Bldg,
i
National Congress
Of Religious in U.S.
More Than 2,000 Attend Catholic Meeting
“The greatest single cause of the dan-
gers of the day is organized atheism
with its lying propaganda,” declared
the Most Rev. John F. O’Hara, C.S.C.,
Archibishop of Philadelphia and form-
er president of Notre Dame, who key-
noted the opening session. “Against this
common enemy of Christ and His holy
religion, the Church summons all re-
ligious so to strive and strain that the
world may believe that Christ has sent
them as He actually has.”
Delegates concerned themselves main-
ly with the problems of religious life,
mission work and education. “. . . . al-
most two million Catholic children
would like to be admitted to our
schools,” said Archbishop Amleto
Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate to the
United States, “but cannot by reason
of the lack of teachers and schools.”
Mother M. Gerald Barry, O.P.,
superior general of the Dominican sis-
ters, Adrian, served as executive chair-
man of sisters, while the Very Rev.
Francis J. Connell, C.SS.R., dean of
the School of Sacred Theology at Cath-
olic University of America, was in
charge of men religious. Rev. Alfred
F. Mendez, C.S.G., of Notre Dame,
acted as coordinator.
Over 700 Masses were said each
morning in Sacred Heart Church and
on 102 temporary altars set up in the
corridors of the Administration Build-
ing, before the program of meetings,
addresses and discussions began. A
candlelight procession to the Grotto of
Our Lady concluded the Congress.
“. . . every detail, both of the prepara-
tions and of the actual carrying out of
the Congress, was superbly planned
and executed,” reported Review for Re-
ligious, one of the country’s most au-
thoritative ecclesiastical magazines. “We
shall not .attempt to describe the candle-
light procession; we shall simply sav
that it was deeply inspiring.”
.i
■{
' 7k tOTRE Dame was host this Sum-
JL^ mer to the only Catholic relig-
ious congress to be held outside of
Rome in twenty centuries. It was the
‘ first National Congress of Religious in
the United States, convened, in the
‘	words of the Holy Father, “to deepen
•	and strenghten the religious life
throughout the world as an effective
antidote against the widespread evils
. and dangers of these troubled times.”
Attended by over two thousand dele-
gates—superiors of almost every relig-
ious community in America—the Con-
gress was described by the Most Rev.
Arcadio Larraona, special envoy of the
Pope and acting secretary of the Sac-
red Congregation of Religious in Rome,
as “genuinely religious and typically
American.” Monsignor Larraona hailed
the four-day sessions as “the largest
congress of religious ever held.”
“. . . Notre Dame is one of the
most beautiful Catholic institu-
tions in the U nit ed States.
It represents not only a glory of
the Congregation of Holy Cross,
but also a most important factor
in the spiritual, cultural and
scientific life of the United States
. . . it is a town in itself, with its
own intense life, one of the cross-
roads of American 'vitality."—“La
Vie des Communautes Religieuses,”
Montreal, Canada.
14
Notre Dame
(Lov/er left)
Archbishop Cicognani, Apostolic Delegate to the U. S., is flanked
representing 126 orders,
attended the Congress.
by Archbishop O'Hara (r) of Philadelphia and Msgr. Larraona, special envoy of
Ihe Pope. (Top right) Mother M. Gerald Barry, Religious Congress executive
chairman of Sisters; Father Hesburgh, president of Notre Dame (center), and
Father Connell of Catholic University. Mother Generals (steps of Main Bldg.),
Other comments to Father Mendez
praised the closing ceremony and plan-
ning of the Congress: “I mention in a
very special way the magnificence of the
candlelight procession; human praise
could never do it justice. . .” “Con-
gratulations ... to all the Fathers and
Brothers of the Holy Cross . . .” “I can-
not efface from my memory the clos-
ing candlelight procession. . .” “The
Sisters . . . remarked about the splen-
did organization . . . many said this is
the place to send our Sisters to study.”
The Sisters themselves, however,
proved a source of delight, as reported
by the Indiana Catholic and Record-.
“The nuns, as they sauntered daintily
around the campus, were a sight to be-
hold—a style show of ecclesiastical mil-
linery. Their habits were as varied in
color and style as were their head-
gears. . .”
Perhaps the most significant com-
ment about the Congress was that of
Monsignor Larraona as quoted by
Time magazine. “I return to the Vati-
can with a warm sense of gratitude.
I will have many fine things to tell the
Holy Father.”
“The evening of Tuesday, Au-
gust 12, will be a truly memorable
one in the annals of the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, even though
this institution of learning and
sports is used to imposing spec-
tacles . . . this First National Con-
gress of Religious . . . was a mile-
stone in the Catholic life of North
America. . . ”—“Osservatore Ro-
mano,” the Vatican newspaper.
Vol. 5 • No. 3	15
President-elect Dwight D. Eisenhower visited the campus on September 15. He was introduced by the Rev. John H. Murphy,
C.S.C., Vice-President in charge of Public Relations at Notre Dame.
FBI
(Continued from page 9)
40), physical fitness, and availability
for assignment in any part of the
United States or its territorial posses-
sions.
The recruit receives schooling at the
Bureau’s headquarters in Washington
and at the FBI Academy in Quantico,
Va., as did Bill Roemer, ’50, former
Boxing Champ at ND, who completed
the course in late 1950.
The rookie receives approximately
640 hours of lecture and practical work.
Classes run from 9 in the morning un-
til 6 in the evening for 16 weeks. He
also must qualify as an expert in the
handling of the Thompson submachine
gun, the rifle, shot gun, and pistol. In
addition, he receives athletic training to
keep in physical trim.
This rigorous training, the agent’s
high personal qualities, and the things
he fights—Crime and Communism—
are what make him the efficient, re-
spected individual he is, and the bureau
the outstanding organization it is. Us-
ing this nutshell description of the agent
and the bureau as a basis, two points
might be made.
First, the FBI agent exists only be-
cause of J. Edgar Hoover. The morale,
discipline, loyalty and efficiency of an
organization are no stronger than its
chief’s, and rare is the American lead-
er whose character and qualities have
been so imprinted on his organization
as have been those of Mr. Hoover.
Prior to Hoover’s appointment as Di-
rector, the FBI was little more than a
nesting place for political graft and cor-
ruption. In 1924 Attorney General Har-
lan Stone, later to become Chief Jus-
tice of the Supreme Court, was search-
ing for a man who could take over the
Bureau and clean it out. He approach-
ed Mr. Hoover. Hoover said he would
accept the job only if the bureau would
be free of any political ties whatsoever
and be run as an organization in which
ability and character would be the only
requirements for appointment, and per-
formance the only criterion for ad-
vancement. This was precisely what
Stone had hoped to hear. The 29-year-
old Hoover got the job, and what has
followed since is a matter of history.
Mr. J. Edgar Hoover, nationally-
known director of the Federal Bureau
of Investigation, is no stranger to the
University of Notre Dame. In 1942 he
delivered the commencement address,
and also spoke to the student body and
faculty in 1937. Just two years ago he
called the Notre Dame-sponsored
Symposium on Soviet Russia “a real
service to the country.”
Mr. Hoover has been associated with
the Department of Justice since 1919,
when he was appointed special assistant
to the attorney general. In 1921 he
became assistant director of the bureau
he now heads, and in 1924 acting di-
rector. To combat a serious crime-wave
in 1933 the bureau was drastically re-
organized, and Mr. Hoover was named
its director, a post he has held ever
since.
16
Notre Dame
Governor Adlai Stevenson, Democratic nominee for president is greeted by Rev. Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., University
president. Governor Stevenson spoke to the students and faculty on Oct. 22. Governor Schricker of Indiana is with
Mr. Stevenson.
THE AVE MARIA
Catholic Home Weekly
EACH WEEK you’ll enjoy reading the
excellent commentaries of these top Cath-
olic lay writers, recently added to the
staff of The Ave Maria . . .
JOSEPH BREIG: “Of the rollicking re-
wards of being a father I have written
a great deal. Concerning the penalties I
have been silent. More than one reader
has accused me of unbalancing the pic-
ture. I shall now proceed to balance
it ... ”
LUCILE HASLEY: “I would like to
settle once and foi' all, the burning ques-
tion: should husbands and wives take
separate vacations? . . . True, this walk-
ing out on my family (and leaving my
husband to take care of the three chil-
dren) might not put me in line for the
Catholic Mother of the Year award. It
ought, though, to put me in line for the
Smartest Mother of the Year ...”
THE AVE MARIA
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send me The Ave Maria for
□	years.
□	Bill me.
□	$____Enclosed.
One year, $4.00—Two years, $7.00
Three years, $10.00.
Name .............................
Street ...........................
City.......... Zone.... State.....
Commerce
(Continued from page 13)
in initiating the Experimental Program,
however, is Dr. Culliton. A graduate of
Canisius College of Buffalo, Dr. Culli-
ton received his master’s degree in Busi-
ness Administration from Harvard in
1934. During the war he returned to
Harvard to head a research project for
the Navy and Maritime Commission,
and stayed to teach marketing. In Sep-
tember, 1951, Dr. Culliton was granted
a leave of absence to serve as a visiting
professor at Notre Dame, but resigned
from Harvard to take charge of the
Experimental Program. He has written
two books, Make or Buy and Manage-
ment of Manufacturers Marketing
Costsj as well as several articles, in-
cluding, “Business and Religion” and
“The Revolt in Education,” the latter
appearing in a recent Harvard Business
Review.
Although the subject matter taught
by Dr. Culliton and his associates bears
long-familiar names, it is taught from
a slightly-different angle than in the av-
erage marketing or economics or ethics
class. The classes are informal, and mat-
ter is subordinated to the student. It
was Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
former president of Notre Dame, who
suggested “Administrators” as one of
the title words for the program, rather
than “Administration,” to point up the
subtle distinction between “the art of
being an administrator” and “knowing
about administration.” In general, the
first two vears are mainly devoted to
giving the student a broad, liberal edu-
cation and a firm foundation in all
phases of business. During this time he
will take such courses as English—di-
vided into communications and litera-
ture — Theology, Human Relations,
Mathematics, Marketing, Accounting
and Physical Education. Later he will
move into an area of specialization—
designed to give him a particular, prac-
tical skill—and some special areas of
business — designed to give him .an
awareness and competence in subsi-
diary business problems, such as business
law. At the same time he will take his
elective and Fine Arts courses, as well
as over-all business, social and economic
studies to unify the special areas of
business, and to relate them as they
are within a particular business to ex-
ternal economic, social and government
realities.
Vol. 5 • No. 3
17
Father Nieuwland
(Continued from page 6)
1928 to have a formal, written con-
tract between Father Nieuwland and
the duPont Company. Since he could
not use the normal recourse of an ag-
grieved party and sue if he considered
himself to be unjustly treated, it was
necessary to write an unusual contract
which eliminated the necessity for such
action. A little trouble was also en-
countered in convincing the duPont
legal staff that Father Nieuwland would
not refer the contract to his lawyer for
advice, and, in fact, probably would
not even read it. When it was handed
to him he would take one look at its
length and legal language, and ask if it
were all right for him to sign. Precisely
this occurred. One look disclosed three
legal-sized pages. “I haven’t got time to
read all this,” he protested. “Is it all
right for me to sign?” I assured him
that I was quite familiar with the con-
tents and that I thought it was. “All
right, where do I sign?” After which
we resumed our discussion of the di-
vinyl acetylene reaction. It did seem
advisable to obtain the signature of
Father Burns, then Provincial of the
Congregation of Holy Cross, so that
some more worldly person at Notre
Dame would be familiar with the na-
ture of the agreement.
Spends Vacation in Sea Isle City
My acquaintanceship with Father
Nieuwland had by this time matured
into friendship. Father Nieuwland had
for years been spending his summer va-
cations at Sea Isle City, New Jersey,
with Msgr. Pozzi, pastor of the Sea Isle
parish. Since I lived only a few miles
from Sea Isle City, it provided frequent
opportunities for meetings and also pro-
duced an incident illustrating another
phase of Father Nieuwland’s character.
I had developed the habit of meeting
his train in Philadelphia or Wilmington.
These trips were often quite protracted
as Father Nieuwland, who had never
lost his interest in botany, would require
frequent stops while he examined some
unusual specimen of plant life (we once
spent half an hour or more examining
a field of sweet potatoes to see if there
was a blossom on any of them). On this
occasion, since we had a date for din-
ner in Penn’s Grove, I decided to elim-
inate one source of delay by driving
fast enough to make diagnosis “on the
fly” impracticable. All went well for
about twenty miles. Then as we were
cruising along at about 75 to 80 miles
an hour, Father Nieuwland suddenly
interrupted the discussion on New Jer-
sey swamp orchids. “What’s that fern
doing there in that ditch? It’s got no
business north of Washington.” To stop,
return, find the fern, confirm the diag-
nosis, and resume our course turned out
to be more time-consuming than our us-
ual procedure. I conceded defeat and
we reverted to “botany as usual.”
Synthetic Rubber Formula
Father Nieuwland’s process made it
possible to produce monovinyl acety-
lene economically for the first time, and
became one of the key steps in making
Notre Dame’s Cheerleaders are mem-
bers of the University's tumbling squad.
the first successful, general-purpose syn-
thetic rubber. His persistent tracking
down of the elusive new odor resulting
in the unsuccessful attempt to make
acetaldehyde had borne unexpected
fruit.
The consultantship with Father
Nieuwland was continued until his sud-
den death in 1936. Many of his person-
al traits were revealed during this con-
tact such as, for example, the reason
why he was an excellent shot with a
.22 calibre rifle. To the end of his life
he remained interested in botany, and
an unusual specimen was, to him,
something that demanded immediate
attention. Frequently these specimens
were in trees, and as he considered it
not befitting the dignity of the cloth to
climb a tree in full clerical garb, and
yet could not pass up the opportunity of
collecting a rare specimen, he learned
to shoot them down by cutting off the
supporting stem with bullets from the
rifle.
By his own account, Neoprene was
partly responsible for one of his more
embarrassing moments. The current
Laetare Medal recipient lived in Italy.
Father Nieuwland was designated to
deliver it, and also carry a desk foun-
tain pen set and some heels made of
Neoprene as gifts for the Pope. He had
expected a short, formal audience at
which he would present the souvenirs
and pass on. To his surprise, the Pope
was keenly interested in the new devel-
opment and asked numerous questions,
prolonging the audience to nearly half
an hour. The embarrassing feature was
that Father Nieuwland was unprepared
for an extensive discussion of the sub-
ject; since the Pope was not familiar
with English, he replied to the pontiff’s
questions in a mixture of Latin, Flemish,
German and French without knowing
what language was coming next when
he spoke. Fortunately, the Pope was
conversant with all the languages used,
and to Father Nieuwland’s great re-
lief, repetitions and explanations were
not needed.
Famous Priest Dies in 1936
Father Nieuwland’s death in 1936
terminated the consultantship and con-
tact which had existed for eleven years.
The University inherited both the royal-
ties and the contract, which remained
in effect until 1946, and with modifica-
tion until 1950.
MASS INTENTIONS
The Alumni (Foundation) Office fre-
quently receives letters of inquiry as
to whether it is possible to have our
readers’ Mass Intentions taken care of
here on the campus of the University.
We are happy to announce that ar-
rangements have been made whereby
both High and Low Mass Intentions will
be discharged by the Holy Cross Fathers
assigned to the University of Notre
Dame.
You are invited to mail your Mass
Intentions to:
Rev. Edward J. Finnegan, C.S.C.,
Notre Dame, Indiana
18
Notre Dame
The University of Notre Dame
-where moral and responsible
young men learn to
“In the world of 1952 American colleges and universities are subjected to two
dangerous forces, both of which, if not controlled, could render them impotent.
The first and slower acting force is the steady decline in the percentage of philan-
thropic gifts which our colleges and universities have been receiving over the
period of over a half a century. The second and more damaging one is the steep
spiraling, since 1940, of the costs of equipment, materials and services — out-
stripping by three or four times the growth in resources of the nation’s colleges
and universities.”—Harvard Business Review, Oct., 1952.
Your Contribution to Notre Dame
may be in the form of:
A Direct Gift—from you to
Notre Dame in any amount
you can afford.
A Will or Bequest—remembering
Notre Dame in your Will (or advis-
ing a friend to do the same).
A Corporation Gift — private educa-
~ tion must be maintained.
An Insurance Policy — the University
z may be named beneficiary.
I Gifts Other Than Money—equipment,
| books, paintings, etc.
“If business and industry could not
draw upon a large reservoir of edu-
cated manpower, they would be han-
dicapped in every phase of their op-
erations.
“. . . we must consider that we
have a major interest in helping
American Education and educators in
their work.” — Frank W. Abrams,
Chairman of the Board of Directors,
Standard Oil Co. (New Jersey)
“The greatest security of all, of course,
is spiritual security—an unfailing faith
in the benevolence of God. It might be
described as Peace of Mind; for secur-
ity—above all else—is a mental condi-
tion.”—Benjamin J. Fairless, President,
United States Steel Corp.
For further information address
The University of Notre Dame Foundation,
Notre Dame, Indiana
Vol. 5 • No. 3
19