Notre Dame
JUNE-JULY ° 8953
World Trade Conference
Patrick Carrico.............. . . 3
President’s Page..................  6
A Meeting of Labor-Management . . 7
Father Hesburgh’s “Get Acquainted”
Tour ...... ...... 8
The Senate at Notre Dame
Philip Bolin.................  .	. 10
National Debate Tournament
Charles Doherty....................12
Postmarked Notre Dame
Jack Healy .  ......................W
The LaFortune Student Center . . .18
Academic Freedom and Free Enter-
prise ........................... ....	19
VOL. 6 • NO. 2
The University of Notre Dame
Special Events in the Summer School
Department of Education Conferences — June 24, July 1, 8, 15, 22, 29.
A series of one-hour weekly conferences for students majoring in the Department of Edu-
cation and all others who are interested. The conferences will be concerned with both prac-
tical and theoretical problems of interest to students.
Workshop on the Liberal College Curriculum — July 7-18.
Workshop concerned with problems in the organization of the curriculum for the Liberal
College — general education, specialization, integration.
Undergraduate School
The College of Arts and Tetters • Department of Religion; Department of Philosophy;
Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Depart-
ment of History; Department of Economics; Department of Political Science; Department of
Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physical Education; Department of Art;
Department of Music; Department of Speech; Department of Journalism; Department of Na-
val Science; Department of Military Science; Department of Air Science.
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry; Department
of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department of Mechan-
ical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of Chemical Engineer-
ing; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; Department of Aeronautical
Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Department of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Business Ad-
ministration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
Graduate School
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of English; De-
partment of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of History; Depart-
ment of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Political Science;
Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry; Department of
Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil Engineer-
ing; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Depart-
ment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering’ Mechanics.
For additional information write to:
The Director of Admissions, Notre Dame, Ind.
Annual Meetings at N D Discuss World Trade Designs
by Patrick Carrico
The author is a senior and will
graduate in June, 1954. He has been
named Editor-in-Chief of the Notre
Dame Scholastic for the ensuing year.
Mr. Carrico is from Louisville, Ky.;
he worked as a student assistant on
the ALUMNUS magazine during the
last two semesters.
iiiiiiMiiiiiiiiiiiiiiiitiritiiiiitiiiitiiiiitHiiiiiiiiintiiiiiiiriitiiiiiiiititiii
Shoe polish ingredients and banana
imports were the topics of discussion
between Herbert Prochnow, of the 1st
National Bank in Chicago, and John
Breiel of Reader's Digest, as the two
men waited for the crowd to gather
at the afternoon session of Notre
Dame’s first World Trade Conference
in the Spring of 1948. In the back of
the University’s Engineering Auditor-
ium, Conference arrangements chair-
man Herbert J. Bott was ushering in
Notre Dame students and area busi-
ness executives whom he had con-
tacted in a door-to-door campaign
months earlier in an effort to insure
the invited speakers of a full house.
Session chairman Wesley C. Bender,
head of Notre Dame’s Department of
Marketing, banged the gavel for order.
The noise subsided, the speakers de-
livered their lectures; and the con-
ference later ended on a successful
note.
After four additional gatherings in
as many years, the Conferences at
Notre Dame have become so promi-
nent that Professor Bott and his ar-
rangements committee mailed out
o
1,000 invitations to men engaged in
the world trade field for the Sixth
Annual World Trade Conference this
Spring. At the same time, “regret”
stamps were made up for many other
businessmen scattered throughout the
country who requested invitations
with merely a curious interest in the
thing, but who couldn’t be accom-
modated because of lack of facilities.
Enthusiasm for the program grows
more every year; and Conference di-
rectors admit it is still suffering from
growing pains, although generally it
has matured into an organized, well-
balanced annual affair.
Sponsored by the Department of
Marketing in Notre Dame’s College of
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, Notre
Dame, Indiana. Entered as sec-
ond class matter May 10, 1948,
at Post Office at Notre Dame,
Indiana, under the Act of August
24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, *25,
Editor
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37,
Managing Editor
Contributors' views do not neces-
sarily reflect those of the Uni-
versity. Requests to reproduce
material in this magazine should
be addressed to the Editor.
Vol. 6 No. 2 Spring, 1953
Foreign and Domestic Commerce, a
2-story brick building which is a gift
of the late Mr. Edward N. Hurley,
the one-day Conferences features —
as speakers — experts in the interna-
tional fields of selling, credit, finance,
shipping and insurance, and commerce.
By means of these lectures and subse-
quent discussion periods, the attend-
Paul G. Hoffman, Studebaker Corporation’s
Chairman of the Board, was one of guest
speakers at the 1953 conference.
ants further stimulate interest in for-
eign marketing, analyze and discuss
current problems facing world traders,
and at the same time perform the
educational function of exchanging
ideas between businessmen and edu-
cators.
An agenda for the one-day Con-
ferences normally includes: early
morning registration: a series of round
table discussions; and a luncheon
address. Business is resumed in the
afternoon with a panel discussion.
Vol. 6 • No. 2
5
J
Morning registration of 1000 attendants from
all parts of'U. S. is filter point for conference’s
one-day agenda.
*	followed, by a period wherein ques-
tions are directed to members of the
panel from the floor. A reception and
dinner round out the day’s activities.
,	Notre Dame’s setup is unique in
that, at the time of its undertaking,
/ it was the first university-sponsored
j conference of this type in the country.
'	While other such meetings are held
|	annually in New York, Chicago, St.
t	Louis, and New Orleans, they are
1	sponsored by export managing organi-
izations and Chambers of Commerce in
those cities.
Officials in the Notre Dame College
of Commerce realized that, since most
of their students were Midwesterners,
they were predominately nationalistic
i	in character and tended to consider
r
1
;	W. E. Koerting, vice-president, Miles Labora-
tories, speaking. At left is Fr. Hesburgh, Uni-
।	versify president; right, Professor Bender, con-
’	ference chairman.
foreign trade as rather unimportant.
In order to correct this misimpression
and re-emphasize its significance to
U.S. economy in a region that was
usually apathetic toward foreign trade,
the educational element was provided
by inaugurating the World Trade Con-
ference; and the prestige of a promi-
nent university such as Notre Dame
gave the program added impetus.
In addition, the World Trade Con-
ference series provides a broader cur-
riculum for Notre Dame students in
the College of Commerce, since they
too are invited to attend. Other bene-
fits for the Commerce student include:
more contacts with businessmen who
are engaged in foreign trade, as well
as other forms of business; and an
educational slant on items of current
interest in the field of world trade.
Due to the kaleidoscopic nature of
world trade conditions, business ex-
ecutives in this field are constantly
required to keep abreast of newest
developments by study and discussion
of its problems. Notre Dame officials
feel that they adequately fill the bill
by offering world traders an oppor-
tunity to discuss the complex and
changing mechanism with representa-
tives of other firms in the same field.
“We feel,” Professor Bender indi-
cates, “that the Conference makes a
definite contribution to those engaged
in world trade in this great Midwest-
ern area who attend our meetings,
O 3
because it attempts to provide answers
to their specific problems.”
“At the same time,” he adds, “the
Conferences are significant to Notre
Dame because they relate the business
education, which we give to our stu-
dents, to the actual ‘work-a-day’ prob-
lems in business.”
Typical example of the way in which
the Conferences have helped Notre
Dame Commerce students directly is
illustrated by the fact that at last
year’s Conference, several import ex-
perts devised a more efficient method
of handling paper work for shipping
operations. The plan was used experi-
mentally at first, and then incorporated
in the “Import, Export Techniques”
course of the College’s curriculum. As
a result, Notre Dame’s students now
are graduating with the necessary
“know-how” to meet the requirements
and standards as professed by promi-
nent business houses throughout the
country.
The Propeller Club, which is com-
posed of Notre Dame students and
faculty members who are interested
in international commerce, has also
been revitalized by employing sugges-
tions made at the annual Conferences
in its particular operation.
Business firms dealing in world
trade have been fast in recognizing
the importance of Trade Conferences
and the amount of actual benefits
they offer. Newspapers and commer-
cial magazines reflect their appraisals
of the annual meetings by carrying
extensive coverage of the speakers
The Sixth Annual World
Trade Conference was held at
the University of Notre Dame
on May 12.
Paul G. Hoffman, who for-
merly served as administrator of
the Economic Cooperation Ad-
ministration and president of the
Ford Foundation before return-
ing to the Studebaker Corpora-
tion as Chairman of the Board,
was guest speaker at the con-
ference dinner in the Morris Inn
on the campus. He spoke on
“Free Trade for a Stronger Free
World.”
Hoffman has been associated
with Studebaker since 1911; and
he served as president of the
company from 1935 to 1948. He
also received an honorary degree
from the University of Notre
Dame in 1948.
Russell Baker, prominent Chi-
cago attorney, was the lunch-
eon speaker. He chose as his
subject “The Western Hemi-
sphere Trading Corporation Act.”
Professor Wesley C. Bender,
of the Commerce College’s De-
partment of Marketing, again
acted as chairman of the con-
ference.
who attend and the problems they dis-
cuss. Whether it be Valparaiso, Indi-
ana’s little Vidette Messenger or the
New York Times, each devotes a cer-
tain amount of space to accounts of
the meeting.
Tide, a news magazine for adver-
tising executives, for example, devoted
two and one-half pages in its June,
1951, edition to Notre Dame’s Con-
ference. Surrounded by articles on the
One of the discussion panels: C. Ruethling of First National Bank of Chicago; Z. B. Hyde, Office of International Trade; W. Honneus, “Time Interna-
tional”; Dean McCarthy; A. J. Kelley, Andrews Forwarding, Chicago; Martin Plotnick, of Plotnick Insurance Agency, Chicago; and F. Granger, Interna-
tional Harvester.
Macy-Gimbel feud, the then-new Toni
twins advertising stunt, and a spread
which interpreted the ABC and Para-
mount studios merger, the feature
contained charts showing export sales
of watches, U. S. investments, popula-
tion figures, and telephone and auto
production as discussed and inter-
preted by the World Trade Conference
at Notre Dame.
In the course of five short years,
what was at one time a stab in the
dark has turned into a source of light
for Notre Dame’s College of Com-
merce and executives of the nation’s
international trade firms.
“One of the most significant ac-
complishments of this program,” Pro-
fessor Bender says, “is that we at
Notre Dame have been amazed to find
these business executives so coopera-
tive and enthusiastic about this thing.
Then too, we have now reached the
point where Notre Dame has more
placement opportunities than it has
men to fill positions in the foreign
trade field.”
Things are continuing to “look up”
for Notre Dame’s College of Com-
merce.
Richard P. Hildreth, Advertising-Sales Promotion Coordinator for Standard Oil Corp, of New Jersey, addresses world trade leaders at one of group
dinners.
Vol. 6 • No. 2
5
Looking- back on the year just
passed—my first year in the Presi-
dency—I speak of gratitude. What I
have done as President of Notre Dame
is insignificant compared to the great
work all those around me have done,
those on the campus who have given
another year of service to Notre
Dame, and to all who are away from
Notre Dame but never so far from the
campus that they fail to keep us in
their heart, in their thoughts, and in
their prayers.
Back in early April we had for the
first time in the history of the school
a Parent-Son Day. This was for the
parents of Juniors. Several hundred
parents came from various parts of
the country. It was a wonderful event
and gave these parents an opportunity
to see the campus, to meet the admin-
istration and the faculty.
In the middle of May we had the
dedication of the I. A. O’Shaugh-
nessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts.
The next issue of the NOTRE DAME
magazine will give full coverage of the
Dedication ceremonies. Even so, I
want to speak once again a word of
gratitude to Mr. and Mrs. I. A.
O’Shaughnessy. This building, which
cost approximately $2,350,000 is
something all of you should see. It is
magnificent. May the young' minds
that will be trained in this building
through the years and all who love
Notre Dame never forget the generos-
ity of the donors.
The old Science building is in the
process of renovation so as to become
the LaFortune Student Center. Mr.
and Mrs. Joseph LaFortune of Tulsa
were on campus at the time of the
dedication of the O’Shaughnessy Hall
of Liberal and Fine Arts. They
saw the great need of such a Center
and with characteristic generosity the
LaFortunes offered to pay for the
renovation. We naturally, and espe-
cially the students of this day and of
generations to come, deeply appreci-
ate their generosity.
At the main entrance to the campus
many of the students wait for the bus.
On bad days—and we do get some
bad weather in Indiana—the boys had
no protection from the elements. Mr.
Frank J. Lewis of Chicago heard of
this lack of protection and asked to
sponsor the erection of a Shelter.
Construction is now under-way. I wish
to express the thanks of the entire
University to Mr. and Mrs. Lewis for
their most generous gift.
This past June we had our 108th
commencement exercises, with degrees
being presented to 988 in the graduat-
ing class. In spite of the large num-
bers on the campus, we had the ever
joyful opportunity of meeting hun-
dreds of parents. We cannot help but
be proud at the thought that so many
fine leaders, so many good men are
going out as moral and responsible
leaders.
Through the generous help of the
Ford Foundation a grant of $23,600
was given to Notre Dame for con-
ducting a self-study of its liberal arts
curriculum.
The self-study project is to be fin-
ished by September and we hope that
we will be able to enter the new
O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and
Fine Arts with a new spirit as a result
of this study.
Notre Dame has been privileged to
enroll seven students who have re-
ceived scholarships sponsored by the
Ford Motor Co., to sons of their em-
ployees. Besides offering full tuition
and academic fees for the student,
the Ford Scholarship Fund also makes
an additional $500 grant to the pri-
vately-endowed university or college.
I cannot close this letter without men-
tioning the extraordinary offer that
the Bethlehem Steel Company has
made to us. Mr. E. G. Grace as Chair-
man of the Board nominated Notre
Dame as one of the forty-five colleges
selected to participate in what is called
their “Loop Course.” Bethlehem Steel
is offering to each of these colleges
$3,000 for each graduate who comes
to them and spends at least four
months in their organization. We are
delighted that Notre Dame has been
selected: we are delighted that such a
leader of business seeks means to help
private institutions. Bethlehem Steel
realizes that what a student pays for
his tuition is far below the actual cost,
and other corporations will come to
this realization as time goes on; and
the future of private institutions will
be made more secure.
I close as I opened with a word of
gratitude, first of all to Mary and her
Divine Son, then to all who helped
make this past year a success. May
the good Lord and His Blessed Moth-
er be good to all of you and to those
dear to you and keep you close to
them.
President,
University of Notre Dame
6
Notre Dame
Declaring that “there has been no
strike in the last dozen years which
truly threatened the national welfare/’
David L. Cole, Director of the Federal
Mediation and Conciliation Service,
advocated a policy of curtailed govern-
ment intervention in major industrial
disputes while speaking at the Con-
ference on Arbitration in Labor-Man-
agement Relations at Notre Dame.
“We haven’t given collective bar-
gaining a chance to work in major
disputes in recent years,” Cole said.
“Many industries and unions have
come to take government intervention
as a matter of course,” he added. Cole
declared that the frequency of critical
strikes will be reduced if the parties
to a labor dispute rely on collective
bargaining rather than government in-
tervention to solve their difficulties.
He also said that government can
best serve industry and labor in emer-
gency disputes by intervening only as
a mediator. He suggested that govern-
ment should assist, not compel, con-
tending parties to bargain.
More than 500 representatives of
labor, industry, education, and the
legal profession attended the confer-
ence which was sponsored by Notre
Dame’s Department of Economics and
College of Law in cooperation with
The American Arbitration Association.
They were welcomed to the campus
by the Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C.,
executive vice-president of the Uni-
versity. They) heard messages from
Secretary of Labor Martin P. Durkin
and Paul G. Hoffman, chairman of
the Studebaker Corporation and for-
mer president of the Ford Foundation.
Durkin commended the University
of Notre Dame and The American
Arbitration Association “for perform-
ing a noteworthy public service in
holding the conference.” Hoffman pre-
dicted that the session would “bring
dividends to those in attendance in the
form of increased knowledge of how
labor-management differences can be
resolved in a rational manner.”
J. Noble Braden, executive vice-
president of The American Arbitra-
tion Association and conference key-
note speaker, declared that “Collective
bargaining will determine the future
o o
security of America, for only as we
develop areas of understanding and
good will at home can we hope to
extend them abroad.”
“Arbitration,” Braden said, “re-
duces, if not eliminates, the need for
government intervention in labor-
management relations.” He defined ar-
bitration as “the voluntary submission
of our disputes to a mutually agree-
able third party for final resolution.”
Curtis G. Shake, former Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of Indi-
ana, told the conference that “arbi-
tration must be encouraged rather than
handicapped by state and federal
legislation.” He pointed out that 90%
of labor-management contracts pro-
vide for some form of arbitration.
“This,” Shake said, “indicates legal
acceptance of the principle of arbitra-
tion.”
“Voluntary arbitration must be pro-
tected or compulsion will take its
place,” Joseph S. Murphy, former
executive and director of The Ameri-
can Arbitration Association declared.
“Unless the fundamental virtue of
(Continued on page 15)
Five Hundred Industrial, Legal, Educational Representatives
Tackle Collective Bargaining Problems at Notre Dame’s Forum
Vol. 6 • No. 2
7
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C
9
at
Hesburgh’s reception. J. M. Hag-
gar, (L) of the Haggar Co.; T. E.
Braniff, Braniff International Air-
ways.
at the
ws
^5
Arthur
toast-
Lower right: (L to R) J.
Haley; C. E. Broussard,
Lower left: dinner scene
Hotel Beaumont.
Left: George Strake, Houston
dinner host and member of
ND’s Associate Board of Lay
Trustees, chats with Fr. Hes-
burgh.
'dent o£ the University of Notre Dame
traveled on a'get acquainted tour°of Texas
and Florida and was guest o	.. .	,
attended by industrial, political,
meetings

Upper left: Dallas co-hosts
Fr.
Upper right: scene of the testi-
monial dinner which was held at
the Brook Hollow Golf Club in
Dallas.
master; J. H.
Hesburgh;
Phelan, Sr.; Fr.
R. T. Braun.

and social leaders ol the area. He
with alumni and other friends of the 0™™
ideals of Notre Dame to groups in
Houston, Beaumont, Fort Worth, and Miami
the aim
Dallas >
Above: Fr.
Hesburgh and newspaper publisher Amon Carter exchange
conversation at the recent Ft. Worth luncheon.
Above: (L to R) J. Arthur Haley, Director of Public Relations at Notre
Dame; J. Lee Johnson, III, ’49, host of Fort Worth luncheon which was
at Hotel Texas; and Fr. Hesburgh.
Below: the La Goree Country Club in Miami. Scene of the testimonial
dinner at which many industrial, political, and social leaders of the
city honored Father Hesburgh.
■"J
I
Below: Father Hesburgh chats at Miami’s La Goree Country Club with
Walter D. Rowlands, '15, the dinner host.
StudanL	5,000...
The Senate at Notre Dame
Every Monday evening, some 30
students, dressed in their Sunday best,
convene in the Law Building to dis-
cuss plans that affect the daily lives of
the 5,100 students they represent. For
they are members of a governing body
known as the Student Senate of
Notre Dame.
The Senate seeks to represent and
express crystallized student opinions
to every administrative office whose
decisions concern the student body.
It supervises and regulates almost all
campus activities; whether they be an
activity of one of the 90 clubs, the 14
residence halls, the four classes, a
Victory dance or a Communion break-
fast. The only exceptions are athletics,
publications, music and debate.
Some of the larger and better known
projects sponsored by the Senate are
student football and basketball trips,
student musicals, and the Mardi Gras
carnival.
The student governing body is com-
posed of 30 voting members, three
non-voting members, and an Execu-
tive Cabinet which administers all of
the legislation of the Senate. Faculty
advisor for the group is the Univer-
sity’s vice-president in charge of stu-
dent affairs.
A majority vote constitutes a final
decision in all of its legislative matters.
If these decisions meet with the ap-
proval of the Administration, they are
carried out by four administrative
groups known as the Social, Physical,
Spiritual, and Academic Commissions.
For example, if the Senate votes to
hold a dance, the arrangements are
handled by the Social Commission;
if there is a religious survey to be tak-
en among the students, it would come
under the guidance of the Spiritual
Commission. Each of these groups, in
turn, has the power to establish bu-
reaus to share the work of the Com-
missions, and help carry out their
duties more efficiently.
The Blue Circle also lends a hand
in carrying out the many responsibili-
ties of the Senate. This organization is
Notre Dame’s only honor society. It is
made up of students who have good
scholastic standings and who have
proven themselves loyal and capable
in extra-curricular activities. The
members perform tasks for the Senate
such as orienting freshman, ushering,
and the handling of pep rallies.
Like all governing groups the Sen-
ate also has a Treasury. Although not
large in capacity, the reserve at the
Treasury’s disposal is adequate. A
good share of the Senate’s money is
obtained by selling activity cards to all
students for $1. Money collected from
dances and other social activities spon-
sored by the Senate are also placed
in the Treasury.
Proceeds are then used for such
things as hall decorations for Decora-
tion Weekend, club committee funds,
service and welfare groups, and trip
expenses for students representing
Notre Dame at conventions and other
special affairs.
The present Student Senate is now
in its first year of operation. In pre-
vious years the Notre Dame student
government was called the Student
Council, but due to many inefficiencies,
mainly lack of representation, a new
by Philip Bolin
The author hails from Pittsburgh,
Pa., and will graduate with the Class
of 1954. He is majoring in Journal-
ism and has been active in student or-
ganizations on campus.
'liiitiiiiiniiitiiitiiniiiiiiiiiiiiitiiititiiiiiiiiiiuiiiiiiiititiiiiiitititiiiii*
constitution was drawn up which
established the present Senate.
The new Student Senate has already
proven itself to be one of the best
student governing organizations in the
University’s history. It has undertaken
many more projects than any Notre
Dame student government has in the
past. One of the most interesting
problems it is handling at present is
the responsibility of raising funds for
the new Student Center.
In the few months that the Senate
has played a part in this fund-raising
campaign, over $1,500 has been col-
lected from the students. Most of this
came from a competitive raffle held
among the residence halls for a month-
ly allotment of baked goods made by
the women of Vetville.
Rev. James E. Norton, C.S.C., vice-president in
charge of student affairs and the faculty ad-
visor for Senate activities.
10 Notre Dame
also established a
The Senate has
Ernie Bartell, Commerce
senator; Pat Mulrooney,
arrangements for the various
o
meetings on campus, as well as
club
irons
Senate spark plugs, (clockwise:) Tom Reedy, Senate president, and Secretary Jim Richards in confab;
School senator; Kerwin Fulton, Senior class president; Al Marks, Science
the Senate vice-president; Reedy; Richards; Pres. Reedy addressing Senate
group.
Charity Chest which is very similar
to the Community Chest in every
American city. The donations received
are given to less fortunate families in
the South Bend area.
A 15 minute weekly radio program
over station WND, Notre Dame, is
also on the list of the many projects
sponsored by the Senate this year. The
purpose of this weekly broadcast is to
familiarize the students with the func-
tions and legislation of the Senate.
The Senate has also set up an office
in the Main Building where the Secre-
tary of the organization handles all
out any difficulties that these organi-
zations might have.
This year the Senate has also joined
the Indiana Student Government As-
sociation in order to participate in, and
exchange ideas with other schools
throughout the State.
The greatest accomplishment of the
new Senate is that it gives every stu-
dent a chance to voice his opinion in
the University’s student government,
as well as an opportunity to display
his leadership abilities.
Perhaps this is the main reason the
Senate has won the approval of the
student body. In any event the Student
Senate can now truly be called — the
student government of Notre Dame.

National DEBATE
TOURNAMENT
i
I
Dartmouth College triumphed over
seventeen outstanding inter-collegiate
debate teams to win top honors in the
First Annual University of Notre
Dame Invitational Debate Touirna-
ment, recently. The east coast, well
represented by Boston University; the
United States Military, Naval and
Merchant Marine Academies; George-
town University’s School of Foreign
Service; and Dartmouth, received
three plaques and the first place
trophy in the three day competition.
Dartmouth won the Rev. William A.
Bolger Memorial Trophy with a final
unanimous decision over Bradley Uni-
versity, Peoria, Illinois. The first
12 Notre Dame
school to send three winning teams
will retain the trophy permanently.
The tournament’s topic was the na-
tional subject for this year’s debate
season: “Resolved that the Congress
of the United States Should Enact a
Compulsory Fair Employment Prac-
tices Law.” Most of the debates cent-
ered around the problem of discrimi-
nation in employment, particularly as
it exists in the South.
Bradley defeated top seeded West
Point in the semi-finals by a split de-
cision while Dartmouth ousted An-
napolis, the fourth place winner. Dart-
mouth, represented by Charles Bu-
by Charles Doherty
The author is a member of the
Notre Dame Debate Squad. His home
is in Pittsburgh, Pa., and he will re-
ceive a Bachelor of Arts degree from
Notre Dame in 1955.
iiitttniiiiiiiiiim.nut t unit tn: nit nnniiiiii i mini niiiiiiiiiiiiiiii
chanan and David Horlacher, had an
over-all composite of seven wins and
one loss.
Denison Ray of Alabama Polytech-
nic Institute was judged the outstand-
ing individual debater of the contest
and winner of a personal trophy. He
attained 160 points out of a possible





Al DeCrane, Tournament manager
and assistant coach of the Notre
Dame debate team, is National
Singles Debate Champion. He won
the title at Cleveland last year. Until
his Sophomore year DeCrane had
never participated in or attended a
debate meet. Under the coaching of
Leonard Sommer at Notre Dame, Al
progressed from neophyte to national
champ in two years. By only a half-
point, DeCrane missed winning the
National Championship in Extempo-
raneous Speech, also. He is a mem-
ber of the 1953 graduating class.
180. Each of the top ten debaters was
presented with a tournament certificate
in recognition of his superior ability.
The Notre Dame Tournament now
planned on an annual basis will be
limited to 20 of the nation’s most suc-
cessful inter-collegiate debate teams.
Teams entered in this year’s tourna-
ment included the following: Dart-
mouth, Boston University, West Point,
Annapolis, Bradley, Merchant Marine
Academy, Georgetown School of For-
eign Service, Auburn, Wisconsin
State, Goshen College, Western Michi-
gan, Mundelein, University of Illinois
(Navy Pier, Chicago), Denison Uni-
versity, University of Pennsylvania,
Case Institute, Loyola (Chicago) and
Notre Dame.
After a scheduled appearance in the
West Point National Championship
the Irish debaters will have com-
peted in 200 debates including the
winning of first place awards at the
Brooklyn College, Northwestern Uni-
versity and Azalea Festival competi-
tions.
With 253 forensic meets already on
the records for the 1952-53 season,
forensics director and debate team
tutor Leonard Sommer estimates the
past season as his “biggest and best
for the Notre Dame debate squad.”
“This is the best group of debaters
I’ve had in eight years here,” he adds.
Listed among the debating outfit’s
accomplishments are seven tourna-
ment wins and 29 certificates of merit
for superiority in debate competition
which his proteges have won.
Sister Mary of the Cross, of Mundelein College in Chicago, gets registration directions from Al DeCrane,
Notre Dame senior who acted as tourney director.
Denison Ray, Alabama Polytechnic Institute, re-
ceives “outstanding speaker” award from Fr.
Norton at banquet.
In top-flight national competition,
Professor Sommer’s teamsters have
garnered three outstanding citations:
first place plaque in the Wachtel Na-
tional Championship competition; sec-
ond slot at the Boston University ar-
guments; and first award in the Indi-
ana section of the Intercollegiate
Peace Speech Association competition.
Dartmouth’s winners, David Horlacher and Charles Buchanan, collect the spoils of victory after win-
ning over seven opposing units while losing one match.
Winning debate teams have long
been traditional at Notre Dame.
Largely under the expert coaching of
the late Rev. William Bolger, C.S.C.,
the Irish won 83 per cent of their de-
bates from 1904 to 1924. Father Bol-
ger was as capable in forensics activi-
ties as Rockne was in athletics. In
1938 Professor William J. Coyne tu-
tored the debate team to 23 victories
in 32 meets.
The beginning of a new era in de-
bate at Notre Dame started in 1945
when Professor Sommer was ap-
pointed coach. The Irish debate teams
have continued their winning habits
under his guidance and, today, Notre
Dame ranks as one of the leaders in
intercollegiate debating.
Vol. 6 • N®. 2
13
CRYSTAL CLEAR GLASSES
SONGS OF
NOTRE DAME
TO TOAST NOTRE DAME
NOTRE DAME
HONOR BLANKET
At party time, reunion time, and many other
occasions, your entertaining will be tops in
graciousness; thanks to these superb Notre
Dame grasses. The seal is permanent and they
are made up in traditional colors.
SEND				
□	6 oz.	No. 1	Stem Champagne — $8.25 plus postage and insurance	$9.50
□	10 oz.	No. 2	Pilsners — $6.50 plus postage and insurance	$7.75
D	9 oz.	No. 3	Stem Goblet — $8.25 plus postage and insurance	$9.50
□	3% oz.	No. 4	Stem Cocktail — $8.25 plus postage and insurance	$9.50
□	3 oz.	No. 5	Stem Wine — $8.25 plus postage and insurance	$9.50
□	14 oz.	No. 6	Hi-Ball or Mint Julep — $4.95 plus postage and insurance $6.20	
□	7% oz.	No. 7	Old Fashion — $4.50 plus postage and insurance	$5.75
□	10 oz.	No. 8	Hi-Ball or Coke — $4.50	
			plus postage and insurance	$5.75
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame, Indiana
Name___________________________________
Students, Alumni and Friends, here’s something
that will be enjoyed by the entire family . . .
R.C.A.’s new record album, 45 R.P.M., contain-
ing the songs of Notre Dame by the Notre
Dame Band and Glee Club. The cover of the
case will please you with its photographic re-
production of campus scenes . . . Then too, the
records are plastic and unbreakable. Records
Custom Processed and Pressed by RCA-Victor
and produced and published by Recorded Pub-
lications Company. Available only in 45 R.P.M.
$5.00
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame, Indiana
Please send N. D. Album(s)........
Name....................................
Actual reproductions of college colors; 100%
wool blanket, gold whipped binding . . .
Chenille monograms and as a personal touch,
the name and graduation year is durably
chain stitched on the blanket edge. 62 x 84
inches (one large N. D. monogram).
Blanket with ND monogram — $13.95
Blanket with name and graduation year—$14.95
NOTRE DAME BOOKSTORE
University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame, Indiana
O Send blanket with ND monogram
[2] Send blanket with name and year
Name to sew...................Year..... .
Name...................................
, ,,	Address.......................................... Address......................................
Address......................................
City and State..............................
n Remittance Enclosed Q Send C. O. D.
14 Notre Dame
City and State...................................
□ Remittance Enclosed Q Send C. O. D.
City and State....................................
Q Remittance Enclosed □ Send C. O. D.
Labor-Management
(Continued from page 7)
honesty and the American sense of
fair play enter into all aspects of the
arbitration procedure, arbitration will
fail and the advances made in labor-
management relations will collapse,”
Murphy said.
Peter M. Kelliher, Chicago, served
as moderator of a panel discussion on
the arbitration of grievances. The
panel agreed that an arbitrator
shouldn’t attempt to conciliate or
mediate a dispute. Among other ques-
tions the panel debated was whether
a single arbitrator or a tripartite
board was preferable. Panel members
agreed that the use of oaths in arbi-
tration proceedings usually was not
necessary.
A practice arbitration hearing of an
actual industrial dispute completed the
conference agenda. The conference
was under the chairmanship of the
Rev. Mark J. Fitzgerald, C.S.C., of
Notre Dame’s department of econo-
mics, assisted by John J. Broderick,
assistant Dean of the College of Law.
Panel of nine experts who met at the morning
session to discuss arbitration of grievances—
agreed that the arbitrator shouldn’t attempt to
conciliate or mediate in labor-management
disputes.
THE MORRIS INN
“on the campus”
92 Rooms — Rates from $6 single, $9 double — 92 Baths
•	Dining Room — Excellent Cuisine — Air-Conditioned
Private Function Rooms — also Air-Conditioned
•	Room Service
•	Gift and Souvenir Shop
•	Cigar and Newsstand
•	Golf, locker and shower facilities for male guests
•	Putting Green for all guests
•	Radio and Circulating Ice Water in each room
•	Parking Area, paved and lighted, adjoining
For Reservations, p/ease address:
THE MANAGER'S OFFICE
Morris Inn
Notre Dame, Ind.
Weekends of Home Football games in 1953 are already Reserved.
Vol. 6 • No. 2
15
POSTMARKS)

“The sight of the mail coach sweep-
ing up to the door each day will add
dignity and attract attention to the
University.”
That was the reason given by Father
Edward Sorin, C.S.C., founder and
first president of Notre Dame, when
he decided that his small school of
200 students was in need of a post
office. This was all started way back
in 1851.
Today, on the north side of the
quadrangle of the Notre Dame camp-
us, there is a small, cleanly designed
building with a neat blue and gold
sign hanging out over the front steps
— proclaiming the Notre Dame Post
Office.
Although it is dwarfed by the other
large and impressive structures of the
quadrangle, the dining hall, the resi-
dence halls and others, it is still ranked
as one of the most important buildings
on campus by the 5,100 Notre Dame
students it serves. Since through it
must pass that letter from the girl
back home, the extra cash that is al-
ways needed, or the permission for
the extra weekend to be spent in Chi-
cago. It contains all the operations
that make the most welcome state-
ment on the campus possible •— “The
mail’s in!”
So as a result of the representation
given to Father Sorin’s hopes in
Washington by one of America’s most
prominent and capable statesmen,
Henry Clay, Notre Dame received its
post office. Father Sorin became the
first postmaster of Notre Dame, Indi-
ana, in January, 1851.
Notre Dame’s present postmaster,
Brother Marcelinus, C.S.C., who was
by Jack Healy
The author is a member of the 1954
senior class and will receive his de-
gree from the College of Arts and
Letters next June. Mr. Healy is ma-
joring in Journalism and has been on
the Scholastic staff. He also writes
for the Flying Irish, a newsletter pub-
lished by the Air Force ROTC.
appointed in 1945, perhaps isn’t as
enthusiastic when the “mail coach
comes sweeping up to the door each
day,” because it usually means an-
other 10,000 pieces of first class mail
and about 600 parcel post packages to
be sorted- and delivered about the
campus. The post office is manned by
a full-time staff of eight persons, most
of whom are Brothers of the Congre-
16
Notre Dame
gation of Holy Cross, who qualify for
their positions through regular Civil
Service examinations, and more than
thirty student assistants who deliver
the mail. Lay professors who reside on
campus pick up their mail from boxes
in the post office. However, the stu-
dents have their mail delivered to in-
dividual numbered boxes correspond-
ing to their room numbers.
At the dedication of the present
building in 1934, which is already be-
ing pressed by the ever increasing
amount of mail it must handle, Frank
C. Walker, a Notre Dame alumnus
and later Postmaster General of the
United States, purchased the first
stamp and placed it on a letter ad-
dressed to President Franklin D.
Roosevelt.
The busiest time of the year ac-
cording to Brother Marcelinus is in
the fall during the early days of the
semester when along with the usual
first class mail, the rate of parcel post
packages rises sharply in number.
“Just before the Christmas vacation,
Valentine’s Day and the closing days
of school are very busy also,” Brother
Marcelinus said. “Then we have all
the various publications which are
mailed from the University through-
out the year,” he added. Included in
that term publications are fifty thou-
sand copies of “Ave Maria,” a Catho-
lic weekly mailed from the campus
each week, added to this are about a
dozen more periodicals that receive the
Notre Dame postmark. Plus the num-
erous publications of Saint Mary’s
College and the thousands of football
tickets mailed by the Athletic Depart-
ment previous to each game.
The student assistants who take
care of the actual delivering of the
mail to the various residence halls
quite often come onto some rather
bizarre incidents in their chores. There
was a student who wrote frequently
to a friend in another college and al-
ways received the replying letter ad-
dressed with pictures. It took the
deliveryman a while to get on to the
decoding of the address, but he be-
came adept after a time. Another of
the student mailmen relates how a
particular sophomore had made a bet
with his roommate to the effect that
he would receive more mail by
Thanksgiving. About a week before,
it was fairly evident that he was
going to lose,
o o
However, he was resourceful and
Bro. Marcelinus, C.S.C., (far right, above) postmaster and his staff (below photo) sort and deliver
16,000 letters and packages daily.
he wrote to his girl explaining his
plight. Two days before the time limit
was up, he received from the same
address no less than sixty-three letters.
Each with a few lines of writing to
make it legal. He won the bet.
o
Then of course there are the stu-
dents, who forgetting themselves for
a moment will put “air mail” stamps
on letters going to Saint Mary’s Col-
lege, approximately two miles away.
But the mail still goes through at
Notre Dame though it is no longer a
coach that comes “sweeping up to the
door each day”. Now the coach is
replaced by an eight cylinder modern
truck, coming two or three times a
day. The methods have changed here
at Notre Dame, but the feeling behind
that yell “mail’s in” is still the same
and just as important.
Vol. 6 • No. 2
17
The LaFortune
A gift of $135,000 to the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame by Mr. and Mrs.
Joseph LaFortune, Tulsa, Okla., will
be used to convert old Science Hall
into a new student center on the
campus it was announced recently by
the Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.
S. C., president of the University.
“The completely renovated and new-
ly furnished building will be called
the LaFortune Student Center,” said
Father Hesburgh. He continued,
“Notre Dame will be everlastingly
grateful-to Mr. and Mrs. LaFortune
for their most generous gift to the
University. This building will provide
urgently needed facilities for the social
welfare of the entire student body and
it is highly appropriate that the new
student center be named in honor of
the donors. Notre Dame men for gen-
erations to come will have reason to
be thankful to Mr. and Mrs. LaFor-
tune.”
LaFortune is vice-chairman of the
Board of Directors of Warren Pe-
troleum Co., Tulsa, Okla. He is a
native of South Bend, Ind., a 1916
alumnus of Notre Dame, and a mem-
ber of the Associate Board of Lay
Trustees of Notre Dame. He was
awarded an honorary degree by his
alma mater in 1949.
The LaFortune gift will underwrite
the construction costs of the new stu-
dent center. The Women’s Advisory
Council, headed by Mrs. E. M. Morris,
is helping finance and plan the deco-
rations and furnishings of the build-
ing. Mrs. James S. Jenkins, noted
New York interior decorator, who
was engaged in the decoration of the
White House and Notre Dame’s Mor-
ris Inn, has been retained for the stu-
dent center project.
More than $17,000 had been raised
previously, principally by the students’
annual Mardi Gras. Contracts for
construction will be signed in the near
future and it is hoped that the build-
ing will be ready for use by the Fall
semester.
Incorporated in the completely ren-
ovated building will be lounges, game
rooms, a coffee bar and nine meeting
rooms as well as offices for the Vice-
President of Student Affairs, building
manager, Student Senate, Blue Circle
and other campus organizations. The
general lounge on the first floor will
provide comfortable seating. It will
have a luminous ceiling and wood-
block flooring with carpet on the per-
imeter.
Three lounges on the second floor,
when used together, will accommodate
450 couples for dancing. An architec-
tural feature of the building will be
an open-air flagstone court adjacent
to the general lounge and first floor
meeting room.
18
Notre Dame
w
j
1 ■
>H
0
s
Mg,
M to
a
■both
duty
Corpor
For
Additional information Please Address
S
e d i * ° r
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA
««'.7,“
SUHOAY, MAY 2
E. G Grace
Board, Bethlehem
Al
It is vital
universities
continue as
institutions




Corporations have
right” and *a solemn auuj
financial contributions to educational
institutions, Superior Court Judge AI-
• * of New Jersey has ruled.
^"nno-ht by a
GIVING
^es $3,000 for
fred a. ow,..
His ruling came in a case	_
group of stockholders against a cor-
porate gift to Princeton University, but
both the legal and philosophical impli-
cations of his opinion extend far beyond
the limits of this particulax' case. It
this opinion is sustained in New Jersey
.. and followed elsewhere, it may well
help to open a new era for both corpo-
rations and universities in this country,
though, of course, this particular gift
is not the first case of its kind.
Judge Stein emphasized that corpo-
rations have a great stake in the work
of higher education aimed at strength-
ening "adherence to a system of free
enterprise and democratic government.”
He pointed out that at most colleges in
। this country "tuition paid for instruc-
< tion meets only fractionally the per
capita cost.” In these circumstances,
obviously, universities must have finan-
cial help from non-tuition sources and
- - no segment of American institutional
' life has a greater incentive to share in
the provision of this help than our cor-
, 5 porations.
It is curious that the stockholders’
suit in this case was brought on the
ground that company funds could be r
- - used only to create profits for the own- /.
' ,; ers. Implicit in such a complaint is the It ‘
, failure to realize that universities are 4”%
one of the main seedbeds of corporate
5 profits in this country. They train the
; new generations of executive and tech- * *• *
nical personnel without whom cor-
porations could not function. Their \
laboratories provide an unending stream
of scientific discoveries which affect
every corporation’s production, laying
the bases for new products and opening
up vistas for cutting costs.
ersonnel Cited
_	Journal Staff Reporter
NEW YORK — Bethlehem Steel Co. is
ing a new angle on an old problem—re-
cruiting enough top-drawer college graduate,
for eventual executive posts in the firm.
Instead of the direct scholarship approach,
it is offering 45 private institutions $3,000
for* each graduate who is hired for Bethle-
hem’s annual training course and stays with
the company four months.
The schools, Bethlehem says, can use the
money any way they want to—“for scholar-
ships, or any other purpose which best meets
their needs."
The reasons: A scarcity of high-caliber
graduates because a lot go into military serv-
ice, cutting the supply while industrial ex-
pansion boosts the demand. And the need for
■ cash by at least some privately endowed
colleges and universities.
Bethlehem believes the plan will provide
1 financial help to selected Colleges in exchange
, - ' for "value received," the company will be
7 paying for the people it decides it wants.
. :	Eugene G. Grace, Bethlehem’s chairman,
,* , noted the program recognizes both that "four
• -] years of college costs a college more than
' I it receives from a student in tuition and other
'X j fees, and that the college graduate’s education
/ । makes him a valuable asset in the conduct of
| Bethlem’s business."
that our pri-


s
vately endowed
colleges and
independent
of learning."
Chairman of the
Steel Corp

