3
Notre Dame
SUMMER • 1950
ENROLLMENT
HARVARD
11,175 STUDENTS
ENDOWMENT
1,126 STUDENTS
2,962 STUDENTS
3,600 STUDENTS
WILLIAMS
DARTMOUTH
Why Does Rubber Stretch?
Joseph M. Dukert......................3
President’s Page
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of
Notre Dame............................6
How Notre Dame Got a Million Dollars
J. P. McEvoy......................	.	7
A $7,893,300 Question
Rev. John H. Murphy, C.S.C. . .	8
Journalism at Notre Dame . ... 10
A Greater Notre Dame,
New and Yet the Same
(Eighth in a Series).................12
5,000 for Dinner
Daniel J. McCarthy ...... 14
A Notre Dame Student
Visits Trappist Gethsemani . . . . 16
All-American Bob Williams
Harry Monahan ....... 18
Campus Maintenance ‘Musts’ ... 23
to
Fifty-seven other colleges and universities
have larger endowments than Notre Dame.
VOL. 3 • NO. 3
The University of Notre Dame
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) •Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Why Does Rubber Stretch?
The Answer to a Simple Question Requires
Intensive Research in High Polymer Physics
By Joseph M. Dukert
A TTENTION, golfers! Would you like
to get off 300, or even 400-yard
drives, consistently?
Even a duffer can do it, says Dr.
Eugene Guth, research professor in phy-
sics at Notre Dame. And his system
doesn’t require any unusual stance, trick
club, or long practice, either. All you
have to do is heat the golf ball to about
150 degrees Fahrenheit, tee it up quick-
ly, and let fly! Of course, the procedure
is a little impractical; and the boys at
the country club would probably never
stand for it. But it does get results!
In the apparatus-jammed rooms of the
High Polymei' Physics Laboratory at
Notre Dame, that little trick is more
than just an amusing curiosity. It’s one
piece in the gigantic jig-saw puzzle of
facts that helps to demonstrate Dr.
Guth’s unique theory on the structure of
rubber.
The advice on “hot golfing” is typical
of the way in which Dr. Guth likes to
describe his theory to interested laymen
—and even to lots of fellow-scientists
who find it difficult to follow his highly
complex proofs.
When the news editor of Science Serv-
ice learned that Dr. Guth had formulated
a new and apparently fool-proof solu-
tion to the old problem of rubber’s elas-
ticity, he wired the University immediate-
ly. As the editor knew, Dr. Guth is a
theoretical physicist—a man who does
little laboratory experimentation him-
self, but who fills reams of papei' with
equations and graphs based on the re-
sults of lab tests conducted under his
direction. Usually, when such a theori-
zer finally comes up with an answer, it’s
phrased in obscure 18-syllable words and
accompanied by page after page of
mystifying figures.
But if Science Service expected that
kind of reply from Dr. Guth, it was mis-
The author is a senior in the College
of Arts and Letters and is majoring in
Joivmalism. He will graduate in June
1951, and present plans call for a news-
paper job. Last summer Mr. Dukert was
on the copy desk of the Balti,more News-
Post, and helped to organize the publica-
tion of three Catholic parish newspapers
in Baltimore. He did general reporting
for five Baltimore weeklies last Summer.
During his between-semesters vacation,
Mr. Dukert is attending ROTC camp ami
will later be in Summer school in Mexico.
Dr. Robert Anthony, research assistant,
and a test sample of rubber.
taken. The Notre Dame scientist had
plenty of technical data to back up his
theory, but he also had the ability to
explain it in simple terms.
Rubber is made up of tiny chains of
matter, called “molecules.” A cubic inch
of rubber contains about 100 billion of
them, Dr. Guth explained. These mole-
cules—which are actually long links of
atoms—have a natural tendency to cuiwe
inward, like the old-fashioned springs
on a wagon.
Toss a piece of string into the air,
and you’ll notice that it always falls in
a curved form. The long molecules in
rubber are like that string—always
being shaken about by an inner force
called the “Brownian movement,” and
therefore always tending to remain in
a curved shape.
When you stretch a piece of rubber,
though, you pull the chains taut. When
you release it, they snap back into their
natural curved positions. That’s why
a rubbei' ball bounces.
Using Dr. Guth’s theories as a general
framework, the four faculty members
and seven graduate students who make
up the High Polymer research staif
carry on careful measurements and ex-
periments in order to provide new data
on the physical properties of rubber and
other similar substances.
Dr. Guth is a recognized leader in his
field; yet he hardly seems to be the type
of man one might expect to find in a
job which includes nothing more strenu-
ous than scribbling long formulas and
numbers. Still trim and vigorous at 45,
he prefers mountain-climbing; hiking and
horseback-riding to sitting behind a
desk.
“I have a great fondness for the out-
doors,” says Dr. Guth. “When Spring
comes, I find it very hard to sit in my
Vol. 3
No. 3
3
office and concentrate. But once I get
out in the fresh air, it is all quite
different. Some of my best ideas have
come to me while I was taking my
regular walks around the lakes here at
Notre Dame.”
A native of Budapest, Hungary, Dr.
Guth received his doctorate from the
University of Vienna. Later he carried
on research at the Federal Institute of
Technology in Zurich, Switzerland. It
was there that he first took time out
from his mountain-shaped graphs to
scale some real peaks.
“The Alps were right outside my win-
dow there,” he explains. “I had hiked
and climbed before, near Vienna; but in
Switzerland I got into the habit of going
off on a little climbing expedition every
weekend. Now, I still practice the sport
whenever I get some time off from my
■work. In fact it was on just such a
vacation trip to the Canadian Rockies
that I met my wife.”
His work day is never finished when
he leaves the campus. He is perpetually
inquisitive; nothing can satisfy him
until he has found the answer to his
problem.
“I have to be very quiet at home now',
though,” he says w'ith a proud smile. “I
have a tw'o-year-old daughter, you know,
and I mustn’t disturb hex- w'hile she’s
sleeping. I don’t mind that, though. I
like being a family man.”
When Dr. Guth joined the faculty in
1937, he had already attained wide
recognition for his discoveries and theo-
ries in the field of synthetic rubber and
plastics.
Since that vital discovery almost half
a century ago, Notre Dame has produced
a number of important scientific con-
tributions to the field of synthetic rubber
in industry. In 1920, Father Nieuwland
succeeded in isolating two acetylene com-
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, at Notre Dame,
Indiana. Entered as second-class
matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office
of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the
Act of August 24, 1912.
James E . Armstrong, '25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing
Editor.
Contributors' views do not necessar-
ily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in
this magazine should be addressed
to the Editor.
Vol. 3 No. 3 Summer, 1950
pounds w'hich could be hardened into an
elastic material resembling rubber. Five
years later, arrangements were made for
the du Pont Company to take over the
commercial development of the substan-
ces ; and vulcanization changed the tacky
compounds into “neoprene”—a synthetic
material which surpasses even natural
rubber in many respects.
The High Polymer Physics Laboratory
—the first of its kind in the United
States—was established in 1945 in an
effort to carry that tradition still
further. Other research organizations
had set aside special groups to study
the chemical properties of high polymers,
but this was the first attempt to con-
centrate on a study of their physical
make-up . . . their strength, elasticity,
reaction to heat and cold, etc.
A “high-polymer” is any substance
whose molecules are relatively large
(although even the biggest of these
“giant” molecules are still invisible
Dr. Guth consults with Dr. Petrauskas,
an associate.
under the most powerful microscope). A
large number of these materials—like
nylon, gelatine, cotton, glue, and many
plastics—have a flexible, rod-like struc-
ture, similar to that of rubber.
All of these materials have elastic
properties at certain temperatures. Your
plexiglass windshield may seem pretty
solid to you right now; but boost its
temperature about 75 degrees and it be-
comes amazingly rubbery and elastic.
Dr. Guth accounts for these peculari-
ties by explaining that heat speeds up
the movement inside the rubber or plas-
tic molecules and draws them into
tighter curves. The whole sample curls
up into a more compact mass; then,
when it’s stretched, it snaps back faster
because the inner “springiness” has been
increased. That’s why anybody can hit
a golf ball like Ben Hogan or Sammy
Snead—at 150 degrees Fahrenheit.
Here again, Dr. Guth likes to use a
simple experiment to demonstrate his
idea. “Take a wide rubber band,” he
says. “Stretch it quickly and then touch
it to your chin immediately. It’s hot!
That’s because some of the energy that
keeps the molecules all bundled up in
their horse-shoe shape has been released
—in the form of heat.”
If you hold the stretched rubber band
under cold water for a while, the heat
energy is lost. Temporarily, the elastic
band remains in the stretched position;
it can’t snap back to its original size
and shape until heat from the surround-
ing ail- builds up the internal energy
again.
But naturally all the experiments in
the High Polymer Laboratory can’t be
simplified. Most of them require precise
measurement — performed again and
again to assure accuracy.
In dealing with rubber samples, Dr.
Guth and his associates have three basic
factors to consider—temperature, ten-
sion and length. As one of these factors
is kept constant, another is changed
gradually. The corresponding change in
the third measurement is then recorded,
and new graphs are made. The results
are passed on to Dr. Guth, who evaluates
them and suggests new tests.
In general, rubber contracts when it
is heated and expands upon cooling.
But general trends aren’t much good to
Dr. Guth; he must know the precise
change, measured to pin-point exactness.
The range over which these experi-
ments are made shows what a pains-
taking process the scientists must go
through. The temperature of a sample
is lowered—less than one degree at a
time—from about 68 degrees above zero
to almost 110 below, Fahrenheit. In
another test, a sample of cork was sub-
jected to a pressure of more than 2000
pounds per square inch.
Even radar is used to track down the
odd properties of polymers. Radio waves
are directed through bits of rubber or
plastic; and the pattern in which they
pass through reveals more data about
the material’s structure.
The actual “snap” of a rubber band
has been photographed at Notre Dame
also. Using ultra-high-speed cameras,
the scientists managed to produce a re-
markable set of photographs which
prove that the retraction of rubber is
not uniform. Instead of snapping back
gradually, along its entire length, the
4
Notre Dame
Dr. Eugene Guth, at work over his graphs and columns of figures which will reveal the
secret of some new plastic or high polymer substance like rubber. In inset at lower right is repre-
sented the amount of a chemical test that will keep Guth and his staff busy for days on end.
band seemed to tighten up part by part
—like the wriggling of an earthworm.
At their present stage, the Notre
Dame experiments are still chiefly of
theoretical importance, although some of
the work done in the High Polymer
Laboratory during World War II was
turned into direct applications by vari-
ous industrial concerns. But in the long
run, all of Dr. Guth’s work will be of
practical value, since it will lead to a
better understanding of the properties
of rubber and plastics.
The Armstrong Cork Company and
the General Tire Company have already
realized the tremendous possibilities of
the Notre Dame experiments and have
made several large financial grants to
the Laboratory, in order to make sure
that the work there continues. Rec-
ognizing the military value of bettei’
synthetics, the United States Navy is
also subsidizing Dr. Guth’s projects.
In 1949, the Notre Dame Alumni Club
of Chicago paid a formal tribute to the
importance of Dr. Guth’s work by pre-
senting him with its annual lay faculty
award—citing him as the professor who
had made the most valuable contribution
to the prestige of the University during
the preceding year.
It seems quite probable that millions
of people will some day look upon Dr.
Guth’s work in the same way he likes to
explain it now—in simple, practical, con-
crete examples. For each scientific ad-
vance in the High Polymer Physics Lab-
oratory at Notre Dame fits a new piece
into that gigantic jig-saw puzzle, pro-
viding an increasingly clearer picture
of the nature of polymers.
This picture, in turn, will provide a
more reliable guide in the development
of new “tailor-made” synthetic products
—cheaper, stronger tires; comfortable,
sturdy new furniture; and hundreds of
improved household appliances—all more
efficient and durable than ever.
Vol. 3
No. 3
5
In this issue, I am under the extremely
pleasant necessity of returning to the
theme employed in my last column of
Notre Dame, an expression of the Uni-
versity’s deep and abiding gratitude to
Notre Dame’s benefactors for important
favors received. These have been many
in the course of the last three months.
Liberal and Fine Arts Building
Foremost among these recent bene-
factions is the magnificent gift to the
University of a Liberal and Fine Arts
Building. This splendid addition to our
physical plant will house classrooms,
music rooms, art galleries, offices, and
other facilities for the various depart-
ments in the liberal and fine arts pro-
grams.
The University is everlastingly in-
debted to Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy of
St. Paul, President of The Globe Oil
Company and Chairman of the Asso-
ciate Board of Lay Trustees, for this
the largest single benefaction evei’
bestowed upon the University. Mr.
O’Shaughnessy’s gift represents a con-
tribution of $1,500,000. Everyone with
Notre Dame in his heart hopes that this
distinguished benefactor and friend will
have reason always to be proud of his
generous investment in the liberal and
fine arts which, at Notre Dame and else-
where, constitute the core of a program
of education on the college and univer-
sity level.
E. M. Morris Inn
No less significant is the benefaction
of Mr. E. M. Morris of South Bend,
Chairman of the Board of the Asso-
ciates Investment Company, an alumnus
of the University, past chairman and
long a member of our Board of Lay
Trustees. Mr. Morris has generously
provided for an inn at the University
which, when built and equipped, will
represent an investment of $1,000,000.
The inn will contain public and private
dining rooms, and living accommoda-
tions for approximately 200 guests. It
will be situated at the entrance to the
University, in the Northeast corner of
the golf course.
To the sincere thanks that I here ex-
press will be added the gratitude of
generations of the University’s guests,
alumni, students, and relatives and
friends of the students, for the fulfill-
ment of this long-established need.
South Bend-Mishawaka Campaign
In addition to these handsome con-
tributions of individuals, Notre Dame
has been encouraged by the general sup-
port of alumni and other friends. Both
in the number of contributors and in the
amount of their contributions, the rec-
ords are well in advance of last year’s
list at this date.
The support of the citizens of the
South Bend-Mishawaka area during an
intensive campaign that was waged
during the first three weeks of May will
remain as a pledge of devotion in this
community to Notre Dame. Without
any professional assistance and under
the Chairmanship of Mr. Harold S.
Vance of the Studebaker Corporation, a
group of volunteer workers raised more
than $500,000 in contributions and
pledges from individuals, organizations,
business, and industry.
President of the University
To all who contributed of their time
or money to this Community project, I
say a word of heartfelt thanks. This
effort must prove a source of consola-
tion and inspiration to alumni and other
friends of the University everywhere.
Building Schedule
The results of the South Bend-Misha-
waka campaign guarantee the addition-
al funds necessary for construction of
the new Science Building; an additional
$250,000 must be realized this year and
next properly to equip the building.
Final touches are being put on the
plans, and it is expected that construc-
tion will begin this summer.
Plans for the inn are already well
advanced, and construction of this build-
ing should also begin during the sum-
mer months. Drawings and plans for
the Fisher Memorial Dormitory and for
the Liberal and Fine Arts Building are
progressing satisfactorily. If these can
be completed in time to have the build-
ings under roof before cold weather sets
in, they will be begun in late Summer
or early Fall. Otherwise, construction
must wait until next Spring.
* * *
Space permits only a final word of
thanks to these our benefactors and to
Notre Dame, Our Lady, through Whom
all our blessings come. May She con-
tinue to look with favoi' upon the Uni-
versity and upon everyone who joins the
growing Notre Dame family.
6
Notre Dame
i
*
Hom Notre Dame Got...
A Million Dollars
By J. P. McEvoy
"VTOUNG and dynamic Father John
Cavanaugh, President of Notre
Dame University, could walk right into
one of those “Going My Way” pictures
without makeup and give Father Bing
Crosby and Father Barry Fitzgerald a
bad time. I had just heard he had been
given a cool million dollars for Notre
Dame by an old grad who was not a
Catholic, nor Irish, nor an old football
player, nor the father of a young one.
Sure, and it would have to be the other
way in a Hollywood movie called “Rah!
Rah! Rockne!” or a Broadway musical
titled “Kick Me Kate.” But the truth
is always making a bum out of Holly-
wood and Broadway and vice-versa—and
who could know this better than meself
who went to class with the great Rockne
and then wrote post-graduate theses for
Ziegfeld and 'Zanuck.
Father John was packing his bags at
the Commodore hotel and dashing for the
Century. “The story begins a long way
back,” he said, “when an Indiana farm
The author, Notre Dame, ’14, has long
been a famed scrivener and co-creator of
the comic strip “Dixie Dugan”. Born in
New York City, Mr. McEvoy began at
the old South Bend “News” more than
25 years ago. Since 1911 he has been
roving editor for the “Reader’s Digest”
and also writes for the McNaught Syndi-
cate. His Broadway revues include “New
Americana”, 1928, and “The Comic Sup-
lement”, 1925. In 1919, he published
poems entitled, “The Slams of Life”.
boy drove his horse and buggy up to the
front steps of Notre Dame and asked to
see the President—the same grand old
Father Cavanaugh—rest his soul—who
was President back in youi' day. How
long ago was that, Mac?”
I heard someone murmur “Forty years
ago,” and looked around and darned if
it wasn’t me.
Father John continued: “The farm
boy said he wanted to go to college but
he didn’t have any money and could he
work his way through? He said “I might
as well tell you right way, Father, I’m
not a Catholic. I’m a Presbyterian—so
maybe you won’t have any work for me.”
Father Cavanaugh said, “If you’re so
anxious to get an education, I’ll find
something for you to do around here.”
The boy said, “I sure appreciate that,
Father, but now I’ve got another prob-
lem. What can I do about my horse?”
“Father Cavanaugh laughed and
climbed up into the buggy with the boy
and drove over to the stables—where the
football stadium is now. He called
Brother Hugh and said, ‘Meet our new
student. His horse is coming here also
—give him plenty of oats and if there’s
(Continued on Page 20)
(I to r): Mr. McEvoy, Father Cavanaugh, and Mr. Morris
A $7,893,300 Question
How Does a University Annually Manage to
Spend All of Its Income . . . And Then Some?
By Bev. John H. Murphy, C. S. C.
Several weeks ago a member of the
University administration chanced to
look in on the Midwest Hotel Show at
the Stevens in Chicago. A lady delegate
to the convention, startled at sight of
a Roman collar in the Exposition Hall,
asked her companion what on earth a
Catholic priest could be doing in such
surroundings. The companion, who
happened to have met the priest on a
visit to the campus some time before,
replied: “Why, that’s Father So-and-so
from the University of Notre Dame, and
I suppose no one in this room has a
more legitimate reason for being here.
At Notre Dame they lodge more persons
than all save oui- very largest hotels;
and they serve more meals each day
than the Palmer House.”
Grand Hotel . . .
Truly spoken! Approximately 15,009
meals served daily in the University
dining halls and “coffee shops”—cafe-
teria, Huddle, Rockne Memorial. Up-
wards of 3,500 young men housed for
nine months of the year in thirteen
separate residence halls. And in ad-
dition, the provision of food and lodg-
ing for numerous conventions with at-
tendance ranging from a dozen or two
individuals to 1,500 men on three-day
retreat —or 2,800 youngsters and their
chaperons gathered for a Catholic Stu-
dent Mission Rally.
The customary soda fountains, cigar
counters, news and souvenir stands; the
auditoriums, Drill Hall, and Gymnasium
readily convertible into assembly and
exposition halls. And occasionally one
of the large dining halls or the Rockne
Memorial magically transformed into a
grand ball room for Junior Prom or
Sophomore Cotillion.
There are the laundry, the mainten-
ance department, the heating plant, the
battery of administrative offices, the
public relations department, the “reser-
vations” clerks. There is the army of
butchers and bakers, cooks and waiters.
There are the maids and janitors, the
8 Notre Dame
Father Murphy is Vice-President in
charge of Public Relations at Notre
Dame. He was ordained to the priesthood
in 1938. Father Murphy attended the
University of Notre Dame, Gregorian
University and the Biblical Institute in
Rome, Italy, and Catholic University. He
is a native of Racine, Wisconsin.
“house detectives” and house doctors,
the carpenters and painters, plumbers
and electricians.
The food bill comes to $1,017,500
annually, the milkman alone collecting
approximately $6,300 the first of each
month. Maids’ and janitors’ salaries for
the year amount to $282,300; their sup-
plies add another $114,000 to the budget.
Walsh Hall, student residence dorm—one of ND's 13 "hotels."
The coal bill comes to $102,000, two car-
loads a day—or more than 100 tons—be-
ing consumed in extremely cold weather.
Annual operating costs for the paint
shop are $39,200, for the electrical de-
partment $35,200, and for the plumbing
shop $57,600.
Grand Hotel indeed!
. . . or Big Town?
But perhaps it would be more accur-
ate, in view of the many other depart-
ments and operations maintained by a
modern University, to speak of Notre
Dame not as a hostel but as a municip-
ality of upwards of 5,000 inhabitants.
Here is a listing of some of the
operations of the City of Notre Dame,
Indiana. The operating costs of the
various departments have been taken
from the Budget for the fiscal year
ending June 30, 1950.
School system .......... $2,496,500
Administrative and general
offices .................   690,100
Health service ............  54,700
Libraries ...............   236,300
Recreational and athletic
programs ............     616,300
Police and fire protection..	53,300
Laundry service ............ 91,200
Postal service ...........   30,000
Telephone and telegraph..	33,000
Heat, water, sewage
disposal .................. 223,500
Powei' and light ........... 65,000
Roads and grounds .......... 50,000
Publications ............... 63,700
And no possibility of floating Municipal
Bonds either!
Overall Budget Picture
The above is only a partial listing of
the University’s current expenditures.
Space does not permit the giving here
of a detailed report of income and ex-
pense, but the overall picture may be
given briefly as follows (again, the
figures are taken from the Budget ap-
proved for the current fiscal year) :
Income (estimated)
Educational and general
(incl. all student fees) ....$5,435,200
Auxiliary enterprises (ath-
letics, public cafeteria,
book store, golf shop, etc.) *1,730,000
Endowment and investments
interest ................     125,000
Restricted funds (con-
tracts) ...................   527,300
$7,817,500
Net income after expenses: $297,200.
Expenditures (approved)
Salaries and wages (month-
ly payroll approximately
$356,000) __________________$4,274,500
Supplies and expenses ...... 2,611,600
Repairs and maintenance .... 200,900
Capital items ............    279,000
Restricted funds (con-
tracts) .................   527,300
$7,893,300
Operating deficit..$75,800
It is worthy of note that educational
and general income—including all stu-
dent fees — fails b y approximately
$2,500,000 to cover operating costs.
The current Budget with its sizable
operating deficit still makes no provis-
ion for capital or contingency reserves,
or for depreciation. Depreciation, if
included, would have increased the
Maids1 and janitors' salaries,
annually, amount to $282,300.
operating deficit by some $400,000.
However, inability to take it into
account is not too disconcerting in view
of recent gifts to the University for
building purposes. Over the past twelve
months these generous contributions
have amply compensated for inability to
allow for depreciation in the Budget.
Problems of the City Manager
What does disturb the President and
his Council is the realization that, while
regular income must be regarded as
having just about reached its peak,
operating costs will continue to rise.
While the prices of foodstuffs and some
other items may level off, salaries of
both academic and non-academic person-
nel must be periodically increased. (In-
cidentally, Chambei’ of Commerce fig-
ures reveal that the University is the
fifth largest employer in the South Bend
area.) To rising salaries must be added
the cost of University contributions to
the faculty pension plan, and the pros-
pect of Social Security payments for all
other employes.
Completion of the new Science Build-
ing alone will increase annual operating
costs by approximately $125,000. And
before it can be completed, $250,000
must be found to furnish and equip it.
Furnishings and equipment for several
of the other new buildings will require
an additional $450,000.
Heating plant and water system en-
largements and improvements—essential
to these and to future building projects
—will cost $900,000. This work must
be undertaken by next Summer at the
very latest, the money raised this year’
and next. And if it is found to be more
economical to generate our own power,
an additional $500,000 will be required
to make the necessary installation.
Within the next two years Notre
Dame must alter its sewage disposal
system to utilize the new facilities that
South Bend shall have. This project
will cost a minimum of $400,000. Many
of these, and of other problems of main-
tenance the parent does not ordinarily
associate with the cost of giving his son
a college education. But has anyone
ever run a successful school without
taking them into account?
Little wonder that the “City Mana-
ger” should sometimes toss restlessly on
his bed of sleep!
The Answers to the Problems
The answers to the University’s prob-
lems lie with hei' alumni and other
friends. If these problems are great—
and growing, so also is the generosity
of Notre Dame’s friends and alumni
great—and growing. Each year for the
past several years the number of alum-
ni and other friends has increased con-
siderably. This increase has been rival-
led by the increase in the amount of in-
dividual gifts—gifts that compensate
for budget deficits, that provide for
(Continued on Page 21)
Vol. 3
No. 3
9


4
Background
often
courses
use audio-visual aids.
3
4
4
5
■i
Writing skills come only
through individual attention.
leur cho1
fait pen
om 181
which 1
—that 1
ok ar
:o wri
rrangi
spe
still does not exist, and when . many years compiling for the Editioi
can anthologies still resemble, on de^Ja Pleiade is now available in tl
It is impossible for a man to write some-
thing worth reading, if he does not already
know something worth writing.
Good writing comes partly from having
thought out and correlated information; so
the Department of Journalism works to cor-
relate what its students know about history,
art, world affairs, and literature. Good writ-
ing comes partly from skill in writing tech-
niques; so the department has its students
write steadily, under guidance.
And because a piece of worthwhile writ-
ing deserves to be read, students learn to
present their work in formats that will catch
and hold the eye.
As the Notre Dame catalog puts it: The
aim is to teach a student how to write,
ntt	to give him something to write
about, and to train him in the
techniques of publication.

Techniques supplement
pursuit of liberal education.
'W O


World affairs begin to fit with meaning into a pattern.
Appreciation of art, music, and drama is stressed.
Campus Station WND offers radio experience.

Practical Experience grows through editing a weekly.
The Journalist is the department’s experimental paper.
4*
The Spirit of Notre Dame
The years between 1922 and 1928 were indeed an era of
great transition. The little boarding-school became a great Uni-
versity, physically as well as in the visions of its leaders.
But in many ways the most significant contribution of Father
Matthew Walsh's administration, in the light of later develop-
ments, was the stability of spirit that accompanied the shifting
emphasis of physical plant and increasing personnel.
Under a calm constancy of administration, many dramatic
highlights passed as hardly more than the even tenor of a new
order. The Four Horsemen! Rockne Resigns! Notre Dame
Completes Million Dollar Endowment Drive! Students Frustrate
Ku KIux Klan Parade Plans! New $750,000 Dining Halls Replace
Refectories! Colonel Hoynes Retires as Law Dean! Arts and
Letters Program Revolutionized! Faculty of Laymen Doubles in
Six Years! Alumni Association Reorganized on Permanent Basis!
Scholastic Magazine Changes Identity!
Those were a few of the headlining events in each of which
volumes of rich tradition reside. But in the quiet dignity of the
President they found no corresponding flint to strike the spark
of sensationalism. The result was that just as inevitably as
Father Sorin achieved the Golden Dome and the Golden Lady
surmounting it, so did Father Walsh bring to the Notre Dame
campus the student, the faculty, and the physical developments
of a turbulent time, without the strained sharing or the distorted
perspectives of that turbulence.
Notre Dame spirit is something that men feel, that men give
their lives for. It is the spirit that is both cause and effect at
Notre Dame. It is as beautifully spiritual as the graceful Pa-
troness, and as ruggedly virile as Frank Leahy’s line. It is as
quietly academic as was Dr. John Cooney. It is as eloquently
aggressive as is Dean Clarence Manion. It moves the student to
Daily Communion instead of the Daily Worker. It led 10,000
Notre Dame men to defend their convictions in World War 11,
and .327 of them bought for us the blue chips of liberty with the
red chips of life. It was this spirit, which partly came with
Father Sorin, partly was here even then, that Father Walsh never
allowed to be submerged in the physically Greater Notre Dame.
(Eighth in a series of articles on the
history of Notre Dame, adapted from the
book, "Notre Dame One Hundred Years,"
by Rev. Arthur J, Hopo, C.S.C.)
DOPES, legislatures, Bishops, its own
Councils, have changed many times
during the 108 years that the University
of Notre Dame has grown about the
shores of its little Indiana lakes.
Size of its enrollment, periods of ex-
treme poverty, attacks of adversity, have
varied through these years.
But so deeply rooted is Notre Dame’s
teaching in the rich Christian heritage,
and so deeply rooted is its tradition in
the proper political philosophy of its
native land, that in the mind of man
Notre Dame has meant Notre Dame in
the same basic essentials through all its
history.
That is the answer, perhaps, to the
unity of spirit of alumni and of friends;
the answer to the unity of purpose of its
administrations and faculties; the an-
swer to the clarity of its program for
the future.
Support of Notre Dame stems not
from a particular group of students, not
from a man as president, not from the
blueprint of any one building, but from
belief in a Process, a Process which joy-
ously and confidently accelerates the pro-
gress of young men toward their desti-
nies under God.
Certain periods might have excused a
departure from this progress. The twen-
ties, known to history as the years of
flaming youth, of prohibition, of intoler-
ance, of fabulous speculation — were
certainly not years in which a Catholic
boarding school, just emerging into the
academic stature of a major university,
might expect to remain untouched by the
turmoil.
Enrollment skyrocketed after World
War I, to a point where more than half
the students of Notre Dame were living
off the campus. Only freshmen were able
to secure their meals in the old dining
halls. Spearheaded by a veterans group
of mature minds, the overflowing stu-
12
Notre Dame
reater Notre Dame
New and Yet the Same
Rev. Matthew Walsh (1922-28) Consolidates Campus.
Expansion and Growth in Spirit to Create a "Greater
Notre Dame" Pattern for Subsequent Eras of Transition.
dents entered with relish the many at-
tractive channels which beckoned young
minds to a new young world.
Vice-presidencies under Father John
Cavanaugh and under Father James
Lyons Hall.
Burns, the invaluable experience as over-
seas chaplain, and his own great person-
ality, combined to bring to the leadership
of Notre Dame during most of these
years (1922-28) Rev. Matthew J. Walsh,
C.S.C., ’03, a man whose administrative
genius was almost providentially attuned
to his time.
H.e was quick to recognize that Notre
Dame was traditionally a boarding
school, and was suffering greatly from
its enforced role as only a day school for
the majority of its students. In six short
years, through courageous erection of
five residence halls (two temporary and
three permanent) and the building of
the present magnificent Dining Halls, he
had restored the nature and the vitality
of Notre Dame. Notre Dame had raised
$1,000,000 for buildings. He spent
< $1,650,000.
He knew that teachers were needed for
overcrowded classes. In his six years
as president, the lay faculty was doubled
in size, because there were not priests
enough to fill the need.
And for the churning spirits of the
unprecedented student body of 2,500, he
fostered campus organizations, extra-
curricular activities in all fields, new
publications in which voice was freely
given to the young thinking. He sanc-
tioned the great rise of Knute Rockne
and the teams under him, though not
without the courage to enforce a proper
perspective when public adulation threat-
ened to unbalance the athletic and the
academic values.
Morrissey Hall.
Father Walsh held to the anchor of
the past, but was quick to raise it when
it was advantageous to move to a new
spot in the rich stream of the period. He
was equally quick to lower it when there
was any deviation from the course he
knew. And so skillful was this maneu-
vering that the voyagers of the era were
conscious only of an experienced and
understanding direction.
There is little doubt in the minds of
those who are familiar with Notre Dame
that each of its Presidents have in their
own way served a special Providence for
the University.
Howard Hall.
Because the world about him was so
certain that it had entered a new a per-
manent prosperity, a new mastering of
material by man, it was only logical that
the fact escaped contemporary observers,
and participants, that here was possibly
one of the greatest of Notre Dame’s
critical eras. Fire, poverty, war—these
leave usually a single way of escape, and
however courageous or brilliant the
leader in those periods may be, his course
is almost automatically charted.
Father Walsh could have taken many
paths. It is a tribute to his leadership,
and another evidence of the favor of Our
Lady, that the path he seemed to follow
as if there were no other, was the path
of permanence, the path that made of
the Greater Notre Dame of that epochal
time the proper pattern of a Greater
Notre Dame of another era, after
another war had rocked the world.
Vol. 3
No. 3
13
5,000 for Dinner
By Daniel J. McCarthy
TN one day: 15,000 meals, 1600 gallons
of milk, 1,000 loaves of bread, 30,000
paper napkins.
In one week: 1,000 pounds of coffee.
In one year: over $10,000 breakage in
china and glassware.
These figures give some idea of the
enormous job being done by the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame dining hall. Take
another look at them. 15,000 meals.
That’s enough food to feed a family of
three for over four and one-half years
—probably longer; for few families of
three will consume the amount of food
that three average Notre Dame students
put away at each meal.
Catering to the appetites of these
Notre Dame students is the job of Mr.
David C. Ford. Mr. Ford, who received
his B.S. degree from Cornell in 1921,
took over the managership of the Notre
Dame dining hall seven years ago
In his seven years at Notre Dame, Mr.
Ford has turned up a number of student
likes and dislikes which complicate his
job somewhat. The dining hall seldom
serves cauliflower, turnips or squash.
“We’ve found from experience,” says
Mr. Ford, “that most students won’t eat
them.” N.D. men seem to be partial to
three vegetables: peas (and here, canned
peas are preferred over the frozen vari-
ety), corn (creamed and kernel) and
canned beans (green, wax and string).
Every so often, however, they’ll go for
some carrots and spinach, and so these
vegetables are served about every ten
days.
Notre Dame students also like their
meat well-done, says Mr. Ford. This
results in an unusual amount of cooking
shrinkage, and, coupled with bone and
fat loss, makes it necessary for the din-
ing hall to figure on one pound of
dressed bone and meat per serving to
insure enough solid meat for every stu-
dent.
The student who prefers turnips to
beans, or who likes his beef rare, has to
accommodate himself to the menu. “We
have to cater to the majority in the
matter of menus,” says Mr. Ford. “Some
students ask me why we don’t serve
sweetbreads or liver. Well we’ve found
out that most of the fellows just don’t
care for these foods.”
The author is a senior in the College
of Arts and Letters and is majoring in
Journalism. He lives in Ironton, 0. Mr.
McCarthy is a student assistant in the
Department of Public Information. He
was formerly on the editorial staffs of
the Scholastic and Dome, student pub-
lications.
Located on the southwest corner of the
campus, the dining hall occupies a site
232 feet wide by 206 feet long. It is
constructed of brick and Indiana lime-
stone and was designed by Cram and
Ferguson of Boston, who designed the
Cathedral of St. John the Divine in New
York. There are two huge dining rooms
at either end of the building. Between
these rooms are the kitchen and the
cafeteria. The latter is patronized large-
ly by off-campus students and univer-
sity employees.
Each of the dining rooms is 206 feet
long and 62 feet wide, with a 30 foot
ceiling; and each will likewise seat 1,000
Raw meat for the Irish arrives in carload lots at Dining Halls.
students comfortably. Four steam table
serving sections in each dining room
provide eight cafeteria-style lines, easily
accommodating all the diners between 7
and 7:45 in the morning, 11:40 and
12:40 at noon, and 5:30 and 6:30 in the
evening. In addition, the cafeteria seats
more than 200, and serves well over this
number of patrons at each meal.
A faculty dining hall is located on the
second floor, above the reception hall just
inside the main entrance. This dining
hall, however, is used only for special
occasions.
Approximately 400 men and women
from the South Bend area are employed
at the dining hall. This labor force—
large enough in itself certainly—is sup-
plemented at meal time by 160 part-time
student workers. These students do
most of the bus boy work—cleaning off
the tables after use and carrying the
dirty trays, dishes and silverware to the
scullery. A number of students also
work in the scullery and dishwashing
departments.
There is someone on duty at the dining
hall at every hour of the day and night.
14
Notre Dame
Notre Dame Dining Halls serve 15,000 meals daily during school year.
The bake shop, for example, operates on
a 24-hour basis: the pastry crew works
a day shift and the bread and rolls crew
works at night. The bake shop’s sugared
breakfast rolls are probably its most
popular products, though students also
appreciate the abundance and variety of
fresh bread. As a whole, the student
body seems to show a slight preference
for rye bread. However, Mr. Ford says
that they still make about the same
proportion of rye, white and whole
wheat.
When the dining hall first opened its
doors in 1927, it obtained most of its
beef, poultry, vegetables, milk and eggs
from the Notre Dame farms run by the
Brothers of the Congregation of Holy
Cross. Now, however, all food comes
from outside sources. Meat, of course,
is the most expensive single item in the
food line. But even excluding meat, the
normal, everyday inventory of canned
goods and staples amounts to $30,000.
In addition to storerooms, the dining
hall basement also includes several re-
frigerator rooms, a vegetable prepara-
tion room and a butcher shop. All canned
goods are opened in the vegetable prep-
aration room and poured directly into
the aluminum cooking vessels which are
then wheeled on trucks to the kitchen.
Two potato peelers handle all the vege-
table peeling. The use of smooth-skinned
potatoes of uniform size results in a
waste of only about ten per cent. The
butcher shop adjoins the beef cooler and
is equipped with an overhead trolley to
facilitate handling the huge cuts of meat.
The biggest problem Mr. Ford faces
as manager of the dining hall is trying
to outguess the students. How many of
them will visit South Bend restaurants
for their Friday dinner? Will many
students take weekends, or will exams
keep them close to the campus? Even
the weather is an important factor, says
Mr. Ford. When the first nice day of
Spring rolls around, students like to rove
from the campus for their meals. A
rainy day, on the other hand, will result
in a much larger attendance at meals.
The dining hall, with the rest of the
university, obtains its drinking water
from one of the several artesian wells on
the campus. These wells, only one of
which is used at a time, provide excellent
drinking water, so pure that there is no
need to chlorinate it. Nevertheless, the
water is tested daily by a technician at
the student infirmary. Service water
for the dining hall is pumped from the
lake. It is softened and pre-heated at
the university’s power plant before being
piped across the campus to the dining
hall.
The dining hall also has its own ice
plant, and manufactures a ton each day
throughout the regular school year. A
ton a day, however, is the capacity of
the plant, and so, in Summer, it is neces-
sary to supplement this supply from out-
side sources.
Cafeteria-style meals haven’t always
been the rule on the Irish campus. From
1927 up until the war years, when the
Navy came to Notre Dame, meals were
served family style.
Here’s a Sunday menu from 1928
which is practically the same as today’s:
BREAKFAST — orange, broiled ham,
buns, grape nuts, tea, coffee or milk.
LUNCH — chicken broth, roast chicken
and dressing, mashed potatoes, green
peas, head lettuce, thousand island dress-
ing, ice cream and cake. DINNER—
assorted cold meats, potato salad, stewed
tomatoes, pumpkin pie. About the only
difference between this and a Sunday
menu today is the substitution of either
boiled or scrambled eggs and sometimes
bacon for the broiled ham served at
breakfast. Today’s students get both
coffee and milk at breakfast, two glasses
of milk at lunch, milk and coffee, (or
tea or cocoa) at dinner.
With all its equipment, serving the
number of people it does, it’s easy to see
why the Notre Dame dining hall is rated
as one of the largest institutions of its
kind in the country—at least under one
roof. Although originally intended to
serve only 2,000 students, it has man-
aged to keep pace with the growth of the
university, and today is serving over
twice that number. And with young men
all ovei’ the nation (and the world too
for that matter) still clamoring for ad-
mission, with a new residence hall going
up on the northeast corner of the cam-
pus, it looks like Mr. Ford might have
to raise that order for 15,000 meals.
Vol. a
No. 3
15
N Notre Dame Student Visits .
Trappist Gethsemani
A VISIT to the famed Trappist mon-
astery in Gethsemani, Kentucky,
was made by thirty-seven Notre Dame
students during mid-semester vacation.
Leaving by bus, this group spent
three days in prayer and meditation
among the monks who have now be-
come so well-known through the liter-
ary efforts of Thomas Merton, the
“Talkative Trappist.”
Mr. Moresco’s diary is an interest-
ing version of a Retreat with the holy
men of Gethsemani.
Friday
We arrived at the monastery at 5:40
p.m. As we entered the guest house,
we were struck by the inscription in
the Main Hall — in bold, black letters
NOTRE DAME is grateful to Joseph
L. Moresco, sophomore, Staten Island,
N. Y., Robert J. Winschel, senior, Erie,
Pa., and the “Scholastic” for permission
to repi'int an interesting story of a Re-
treat with the Trappist Fathers.
was written, “God Alone.” How com-
pletely these two words described the
life of these monks we were to discover
in the next three days.
Father Francis, our moderator,
greeted us most cordially, making it a
point to learn our names. Before we
could begin any banter with him the
clanging of the dinner bell called us
to chow. Immediately after a hearty
meal we went to the church for Com-
pline and Salve Regina. As we passed
back to the guest house one of the men
saw a placard near the door which read
“Women Forbidden to Enter This En-
closure Under Pain of Excommunica-
tion.”
The service in the church was very
impressive, reaching a dramatic climax
when, in complete darkness, all the
monks made an examination of con-
science as a solitary light shone on a
reproduction of Mary and the Christ
Child high on a stained glass window
behind the main altar. It seemed like a
quick look into Heaven itself as we
The holy men of famed Gethsemani, Trappist monastery, meditate in prayer.
16
Notre Dame
stared at that beautiful image. After
services we retired.
Saturday
We rose this morning at 5 a.m. and
headed for the church and morning
prayers. After prayers we had our
first meditation, conducted by Father
Andrew, our retreat master. Very ap-
propriately “Heaven” was the topic of
discussion, a discussion which gave us
all a more realistic picture of God’s
kingdom than we had known before.
Low Mass followed the meditation. We
recited the Rosary in common as a
thanksgiving, then went over to break-
fast. After breakfast we returned to
the church for High Mass and our
morning’ conference, entitled “Holiness.”
This conference pointed out the true,
Christian concept of holiness as con-
trasted to some of the false and ab-
stract ideas which are so prevalent.
After this talk, extracts from Father
Eugene Boylan’s book, This Tremendous
Lover, were read to us, expressions of
the perfect relationship between hus-
band and wife. A visit to the Blessed
Sacrament and the Stations of the
Cross followed lunch, then a second part
of the conference on “Holiness.” Prior
to the singing of Vespers confessions
were held. The ceremony of Vespers
was awe inspiring, the chanting of the
monks like a magnificent orchestra
playing praises to the Lord. At 6:30,
after supper, we again attended Com-
pline, receiving the Abbott’s blessing
for the night.
Sunday
Today, the Lord’s day, we rose again
at 5 a.m. Following morning prayers
and meditation we heard Mass and said
the Rosary. Breakfast followed. At
8:45 we attended our first conference
of the day, followed by High Mass.
After dinner we were taken on a tour
of the grounds by Father Francis. This
man’s ready wit and gracious manner
added a nice touch to his various ex-
planations and answers to our many
questions. We paused for a moment
at the monastery graveyard where
Brother Joachim, the “man who got
even with God,” is buried. We saw the
grave of a monk who had formerly been
a circus clown and who had just re-
newed his Baptismal vows when he died.
“There is no doubt where that clown is
playing his tricks now,” remarked
Father Francis.
From the cemetery we passed around
the grounds, observing the various oc-
cupations in which the monks were en-
gaged. All the farming necessary to
make the monastery self-sufficient along
these lines is conducted by the monks.
Entering the cloister we were led to
There are 175 monks at Gethsemani.
the part of the building comprised of
the monks’ cells, each cell six feet
square which contained, without excep-
tion, a hard straw mattress, three
clothing hooks and a Crucifix bordered
by two holy pictures on the wall oppo-
site the bed. True poverty, simplicity
and frugality are the bywords here.
It was during this walk that Father
Francis told us about Father Louis,
better known as Thomas Merton. Be-
fore Seven Storey Mountain was pub-
lished, Gethsemani had 70 monks. Since
then, the number has jumped to its
present total of 175. Concerning Mer-
ton and his famous books, Father Fran-
cis said, “We figured that Father Louis
was on the verge of publishing a great
work because of the long hours he spent
in the monastery’s vault of priceless
books. He would read for five or ten
minutes and then meditate over the ma-
terial for half an hour or so.” When
Merton began submitting his manu-
scripts in great profusion it caused no
surprise at Gethsemani. He is held in
great esteem by his fellow monks, an
inspired, very holy man whom Father
Francis regards as “one of the greatest
poets in the world today.”
Supper was a welcome respite after
Vespers. Following Vespers we had an-
other extremely interesting conference,
this one dealing with Peter’s denial of
Christ as compared with the betrayal of
Judas, a conference which drew the
moral that, no mattei’ how fai' we fall,
we must never despair. Compline and
Salve Regina brought Sunday to a close.
Monday
Another day of 5 a.m. rising. The
routine proceeded much the same as the
preceding days, and the conferences
were again most interesting. The first
dealt with the Passion of Christ; the
second, material success as compared
with spiritual gain. The third confer-
ence treated husband and wife relation-
ships and the proper union in marriage.
After an 11:30 lunch we once more
visited the Blessed Sacrament and made
the Stations of the Cross. Vespers at
4:30 were followed by supper and our
last conference. Here we received the
Papal Blessing and had oui' religious
articles blessed. We retired at 8:30
after Compline and Salve Regina.
Tuesday
Today we rose at 2 a.m. and attended
Matins and Lauds. This activity was
not on the regular retreat schedule. At
5:20 a.m. we had our last meditation
conducted by Father Andrew who, we
found out, had attended the Notre
Dame Graduate School for one year.
After Mass at 6 we ate breakfast, leav-
ing by bus for Notre Dame at approxi-
mately 8 a.m. Our return trip took us
through Indianapolis for a chow stop
and then on to the campus by 4:30
that afternoon. The Retreat was over.
Vol. 3
No. 3
17
Bob and roommate Marty O'Connor.
The author graduated from Notre
Dame in the 1950 class, having majored
in Journalism. He is a native of San
Diego, Calif., and served with the U. S.
Army, during World War II, in the
Pacific area. Mr. Monahan was student
assistant in the Athletic Publicity de-
partment at Notre Dame, and is now on
the South Bend Tribune staff. He re-
ceived the O’Donnell Gold Medal for ob-
taining the highest scholastic average
throughout his four-year course in
Journalism.
"VTOTRE DAME has a new cover boy
candidate for this fall. At least if
all the camera shutters recently aimed
in Bob Williams direction are any in-
dication, the Baltimore quarterback is
going' to be a favorite at the drug store
magazine racks in September and Oct-
ober.
Bob hit the headlines during the 1949
season as the gridiron’s surprise All-
American of the year, so that with the
opening of spring practice he had a
busy time cramming all his obligations
into 24 hours. Class work, spring foot-
ball practice, fan mail, picture appoint-
ments, and an occasional movie with
roommate Marty O’Connor or Jerry
Groom, captain-elect for the 1950 sea-
son, helped keep Bob’s spring schedule
as busy as his fall one had been.
Duty called Bob out of the sack be-
tween 6:30 and 7:00 a. m. to lay out
vestments in the chapel of Cavanaugh
hall where he served as sacristan. After
Mass he picked up his roommate for
18 Notre Dame
the trek to the Dining Hall and break-
fast. Of course since Bob did not have
a class until 9 a.m. any morning there
was a strong temptation to slip back
into bed for a few more winks after
Mass, and Bob sheepishly admits he fell
to the temptation occasionally. Marty
would give some statistics on the sub-
ject, if Bob would give him the chance.
Eight o’clock brought the mail and
more requests from young fans, in ad-
dition to letters from parents, brother
Hal, who is foreign correspondent for
the Baltimore Sun now stationed in
Berlin, and best girl.
Bob was amazed by the requests he
got from the kids. They requested
everything, including his helmet, shoes,
shoulder pads and monogram sweater.
As an aftermath of the Johnny Lu jack
era, Bob received one letter addressed
to the University of Notre Dame at
Connellsville, Pa.
During the season the hall mailman
slipped 50 letters a week under the door
of 157 Cavanaugh, although the mail
did fall off a little during the spring,
fortunately for Bob’s full schedule. Bob
answered every letter himself whether
they just wanted his autograph or were
credulous youngsters like the one who
wanted to know if it was true that the
Notre Dame team practiced with lead
weights on their shoes so that they could
Mr. and Mrs. Williams tour campus.
With best girl at “Huddle."
i
All-American
By Harry Monahan
run faster in the actual game when the
weights were removed. But this writing
chore had to wait until evening because
just reading the mail and the last
minute preparations usually brought
Bob right up to the warning bell for
his 9 o’clock class.
Tuesday, Thursday, and Saturday
Bob had a full morning with classes at
9, 10, and 11 o’clock, but Monday, Wed-
nesday and Friday, he loafed through
with classes at 9, 11, and 1:15 o’clock.
That 10 o’clock spot on Monday, Wed-
nesday and Friday was good for dash-
ing off answers to fan mail. But when
the photographers hit campus it was not
unusual to see Bob in the Stadium or on
Cartier field in a familiar green and
gold uniform posing for some shutter-
mechanic. One day it was Gus Pasquer-
ella for Saturday Evening Post; later
Mike Elkins came on assignment from
Stanley Woodward and Football Illus-
trated; Look’s Frank Bauman followed;
and Sport Life concluded the parade by
some color shots for them.
Bob was originally planning to major
in journalism, but became interested in
radio work, particularly in the sports
field, and transferred to the speech de-
I
Bob Williams
partment. His slight southern accent
should give him a good radio personal-
ity, and his calm temperament will
certainly be an asset and an improve-
ment in a field plagued with hysterical
mike monsters.
Noon time means the same thing for
other Notre Dame students, and Bob
joined the parade to the Dining Hall
with Marty and Jerry. Coach Frank
Leahy’s noon meeting with the team was
next on the schedule.
Aside from the one afternoon class on
his schedule Bob had the afternoons
free for relaxation, answering mail or
studying.
The visiting photographers took ad-
vantage of Bob’s free hours to take pic-
tures of—Bob’s free hours. An untold
number of flashbulbs popped in Boom
157, the Grotto, the Rockne Memorial
and the photogenic lobby of the Com-
merce Building. While the photograph-
ers were busy loading film holders or
filling out expense accounts, Bob took
advantage of the respite to get his class
work up to date before the afternoon
practice session.
The grunt-and- groan sessions on Car-
tier field took a large and strenuous
period out of every afternoon for Bob.
But even here he was not free of the
camera sleuths.
The magazines and newspapers gave
the 1950 Irish .eleven a lot of attention
during spring practice.
The team is young, and inexperience
is an important factor to be reckoned
with. They lack nothing in spirit, but,
as Bob explains:
“What the veterans do by instinct, our
sophomores have to learn and remem-
ber. The split second difference in re-
flexes might just be the margin to pro-
duce a touchdown for oi' against a
team.”
Occasionally the practice schedule
would give the team an afternoon off
and after the Old Timer’s game closed
practice on May 13, the footballers were
able to see how the other sports were
doing. On those afternoons when the
Irish baseball team was home, Bob could
be found in the WND radio booth along
the third base line of the Cartier field
diamond broadcasting the game for the
students in their residence hall rooms.
Bob was following the precedent set by
his predecessor Frank Tripucka, who
was sports director of WND at one
time, and has the example of another
former Notre Dame quarterback to en-
courage him in his radio ambitions.
George “Snake” Ratterman is now a
sportscaster in Buffalo when he isn’t
burning up the pro gridiron.
Bob also called the play-by-play for
the several home basketball games and
Touchdown pass.
was at ringside for the 1950 Bengal
Bouts. The student reaction to his work
was good, and the Baltimore radio ex-
ecutives might well consider adding this
local celebrity to their staffs foi' off-sea-
son work. We say “off-season” because
he will surely be a hot pro prospect
following the final game of the season
against Southern California in Los
Angeles on December 2.
Following an evening meal which re-
vitalized the squad after the heavy
practice session, Bob usually adjourned
once more to his Cavanaugh room to hit
the books again and maybe get more fan
letters answered. If the class work was
light, Bob, Marty and Jerry went to
town tn enjoy their favorite extra-cur-
ricular activity—the movies.
Bob was also busy on the speaking
circuit when week-end plans would per-
mit him to leave the campus and he
made an impression there almost equal
to the one he made on the football field.
He was a big favorite at high school
banquets and maybe Look's forthcoming
covei’ showing Bob surrounded by bobby
sox autograph seekers has a small per-
centage of authenticity. On Universal
Notre Dame Night, Bob and the Rev.
Thomas Brennan, G.S.G., spoke at
Utica, N. Y. Mr. Edward J. Sweeney,
secretary of the Notre Dame Club of the
Mohawk Valley, expressed a typical re-
action to Bob’s personality in a letter
to the Athletic Department:
“Words cannot adequately express the
graeiousness and humbleness of Bobby
Williams. For a young man of his age
he controls himself to a degree most of
us around this area have never before
witnessed from any individual with the
prominence Bobby has attained thus far
in his young life.”
Vol. 3 • No. 3	19
A MILLION DOLLARS
(Continued from Page 7)
anything to do, let him work his way
through, too?
“The boy finished college,” said Father
John, “and went on to become one of the
most successful investment bankers in
the country. A few weeks ago he told
me this story and said, ‘Now you know
why I’ve always had a warm spot in my
heart for Notre Dame. I never got over
a Catholic school doing all that for a
poor Protestant farm boy? And then,
just to show he meant it, Ernest M. Mor-
ris of South Bend, Indiana, gave Notre
Dame University a million dollars?’
“That’s wonderful,” I said, “How many
boys do you have working your way
through school now?”
“We have 830—working all or part of
their way,” he said, “and I’ll give you
a Believe-it-or-Not—the total profits
from all our athletics including our just-
ly famous football team nets about $200-
000 a year—but it costs us $350,000 a
year to help the boys who are working
their way.”
I said, “Most people think football
pays for everything at Notre Dame.”
“They also think all the students art.
Catholics and all the teachers are
priests,” said Father John, “but one out
of every ten boys is a non-Catholic and
while we have 86 priests on the faculty
we have 72 non-Catholic teachers—top
men, too. The head of our Mechanical
Engineering is a Baptist; of Mathemat-
ics a Jew; of Electrical Engineering, a
Presbyterian—and the head of our Chem-
istry School where synthetic rubber' was
born and which today is admitted to be
one of the best in the world—is a Quak-
er.”
Father John glanced at his watch and
I started to go. “Wait,” he said, “what
was that story you told at a football
dinner years ago when I was a student
—about how you worked your way
through Notre Dame?”
“It was something like your friend
Mr. Morris,” I said, “except for the
horse and buggy and the million dollars.
I was a farm boy, too, from southern
Illinois—down in ‘Egypt’ and when I
came to Notre Dame in the fall of 1910
I asked to see the boss. One of the boys
said, ‘President Cavanaugh’s office is
right up those steps? So I went up and
knocked at his door and that great organ
voice boomed melodiously, ‘Come in.’’ and
I walked in confidently in my shiny, new
mail-order suit.
“Father Cavanaugh rose and warmly
shook hands with me. ‘What can I do
for you, son?’ he asked. I told him I
wanted to go to Notre Dame and he
asked me if I had made my arrange-
(Ed. Note: Notre Dame receives many lovely letters. The following letter from
Mr. Smithe is presented because it combines several circumstances we would like
to recommend to your attention. The generous contribution of course is helpful
and appreciated. But the conviction of the merit of the University, educationally
as well as morally, is most stimulating. The mention of Bob Considine’s widely
read column on Notre Dame’s financial needs, and the mention of John Coleman,
distinguished New York member of the Notre Dame President’s Committee, point
up our major hope—your realization that Notre Dame’s greatest source of hope
for help lies in the continuous telling of the Notre Dame story).
May 19th, 1950
Notre Dame University
Notre Dame, Indiana
Dear Fathers:
It affords me great peasure to en-
close my check in the amount of $500
as a contribution to the Notre Dame
Science Centre Building Fund. I am
prompted in this partially by reason of
the fact that my two sons are now stu-
dents at Notre Dame where they are,
to my mind, deriving greater benefits,
educationally and morally, than would
be possible at any other university.
In addition, I have great admiration
ments. I said, ‘No—I’m making them
now. And I might as well start in and
tell you that I haven’t any money?
“ ‘That’s too bad,’ said Father Cava-
naugh, “We can’t buy anything around
here without money—what was your
idea?’ I told him that I had come to
work my way and he said there weren’t
any jobs, they were all taken. ‘Come to
think of it? said Father Cavanaugh, ‘the
boy who takes care of Old College hasn’t
come back yet. You can take that job—
but if he shows up—out you go?
“Well—I scrubbed floors and made the
beds in Old College where a handful of
priests and seniors lived and I was as
busy as all seven of Disney’s Little
Dwarfs. I had a room all of my own
and I used to swim in the lake before
class and I was never' so happy before or
since.
“But one day Father Cavanaugh called
me to his office and the axe fell. ‘The
boy has come back? he said, ‘you’ll have
to find a job in South Bend. Of course
you can’t make enough money there to
pay your tuition so I’ve invented some-
thing here for you?
“I got a job as office boy for $4 a week
on the South Bend News, paid $1 a week
for my room which was the corner of a
boarding-house hallway screened off with
chicken wire. Breakfast at Kables was
six cents—3 cents for coffee and 3 cents
for doughnuts—(happy days!). And for
my lunch and tuition at Notre Dame, I
for the many fine works being carried
on at Notre Dame, and after reading
Bob Considine’s recent enlightening
article, realized the financial handicaps
which are encountered as compared to
more heavily endowed universities.
Finally, I welcome this as an oppor-
tunity to express concretely my ap-
preciation of the courtesies extended me
and my family by John Coleman whose
activities in the interest of Notre Dame
are so well known.
Sincerely,
/s./ Edgar A. Smithe
ND RECEIVES ALUMNI CLUB GIFT
Jack Griffin presents $5,000 check to
Father John Murphy, vice-president,
from St. Louis Alumni Club.
am proud to say, I functioned as the
lowest form of collegiate life. I was the
student waiter who waited on the stu-
dent waiters.”
“When I first heard you tell that
story,” said the President of Notre Dame
as we shook hands at the elevator, “it
made a deep impression on me. Do you
know why? Because at the time, I, too,
was working my way through Notre
Dame.”
20
Notre Dame
National Meeting of
Medicinal Chem Society
A new type of weapon for combating
the virus diseases, including polio,
mumps, and the common cold, may re-
sult from research described to 500
chemists at the American Chemical So-
ciety’s second national medicinal chem-
istry symposium held at the University
of Notre Dame.
The research, still in the exploratory
stage, is an outgrowth of the successful
synthesis of the drug Chloromycetin, Dr.
Harry M. Crooks, Jr., of Parke, Davis
& Co., Detroit, Mich., told the sympo-
sium, which is sponsored by the society’s
Medicinal Division. Dr. Crooks was one
of the chemists who synthesized Chloro-
mycetin—the first antibiotic to be made
artificially.
Now Dr. Crooks and his colleagues are
trying to create a better drug by alter-
ing the structure of the synthetic Chlo-
romycetin, and it is by this means that
they hope to find a compound which can
be used against virus maladies.
Synthetic ACTH has been brought
closer than ever before by rapid recent
progress toward isolation of the anti-
arthritis drug in pure form, the chemists
attending the American Chemical So-
ciety’s Second National Medicinal Chem-
istry Symposium were told.
Purification of the compound undoubt-
edly will be announced “within a few
months,” Dr. E. E. Hays, director of bio-
chemical research of Armour & Com-
pany, Chicago, announced.
Optimism on the outlook for the syn-
thesis of cortisone, the other new weap-
on against arthritis, also was expressed.
In the light of recent research, the “situ-
ation looks favorable for total synthe-
sis,” Dr. Harold L. Mason, professor of
physiological chemistry at the Mayo
Foundation, Rochester, Minn., declared.
A centuries-old Egyptian drug for
controlling muscular spasm may prove
a valuable aid in combating angina pec-
toris, the most painful of all heart dis-
eases, it was indicated at the final ses-
sion of the second National Medicinal
Chemistry Symposium.
The drug, called khellin, has a far
more lasting effect than other compar-
able compounds now used in treating
agnina pectoris, Dr. Rene Wegria, as-
sistant professor of medicine in the Co-
lumbia University College of Physicians
and Surgeons told the group.
The Egyptians discoverd long ago
that khellin, which is obtained from a
plant technically known as amno visna-
ga, was a potent agent for relaxing the
Notre Dame steam plant was built in 1932.
A $7,893,300 Question.
(Continued from Page 9)
building needs, that will take care of
furnishing and equipping these build-
ings, of mounting operating costs, and
eventually of endowment needs.
One alumnus, one friend tells another
about the work that Notre Dame is
doing for the youth of America and the
muscles, and it became a useful weapon
for fighting bronchial asthma, intestinal
spasm, and other ailments characterized
by drastic muscular contraction.
A few years ago, Dr. George von An-
rep, internationally known professor of
cardiac physiology in the University of
Cairo, showed that khellin had a marked
activity on the coronary vessels. His ini-
tial experiments along this line produced
highly encouraging results, which were
picked up and confirmed in the United
States.
Khellin also has been found promising
as a means of treating coronary sclero-
sis, in which the flow of blood to the
heart muscle is shut off by constriction
of the artery supplying the blood, Dr.
Wegria said.
The editors of NOTRE DAME are
sincerely grateful to Mr. John P.
Burns, Managing Editor, Notre Dame
ALUMNUS, without whose coopera-
tion this issue would not have been
possible.
world, for the future of America and
the world. He tells, too, how all can
help further the education of this youth,
help guarantee what this future shall
be. And because Notre Dame is doing
this work, because Notre Dame has such
an attraction for so many different types
of people, thousands each year contrib-
ute to, associate themselves with, this
worthwhile effect to the extent of their
ability. Remembering this, Notre Dame
feels that in the years since her found-
ing, she has never received a small gift,
an insignificant contribution.
Seeing in his mind’s eye this throng
of friends and associates, each stepping
forward to offer his aid, the “City Man-
ager” smiles faintly and rolls over for
a last time before dropping off to sleep.
And as he does so, his attention is
captured and held by a sign written in
the sky! Outside the windows of Corby
Hall up over the roof-tree of the
Church, the clouds hover low and black.
But outlined sharply against the dark-
ening sky is the lightsome figure of the
Golden Lady atop the Dome, thrown
into sharp relief by powerful floodlights’
No need to worry unduly over salar-
ies and food and light and heat bills, so
long as the Lady is up there watching
over Her “hotel-manager”, liis employes
and his guests. No need to fear for the
operations of the University so long as
She stands guard day and night, in
stormy weather and in sunshine, over
the City of Notre Dame, the City of
Our Lady!
Vol. 3
No. 3
21
Hugh Dean (r), vice-president in charge of manufacturing, General Motors Corp.,
receives 'Man of the Year' award from ND Detroit Alumni Club president, Thomas
Moran, while Father Theodore Hesburgh, C.S.C., executive vice-president of the
University, looks on.
LOBUND Dedicates New
Germ-Free Life Labs
A stock colony of germ-free animals
for scientific research was begun recent-
ly in conjunction with, dedication cere-
monies for a new Germ-Free Laboratory
in the Laboratories of Bacteriology at
the University of Notre Dame (LO-
BUND).
The new apparatus in which the
Germ-Free Animal Colony will be reared
is designed to house approximately 1,000
animals at one time. From this huge
tank, which is entered by a diver who
must dive through a germicidal solu-
tion before feeding and caring for the
animals, the animals may be removed
sevei’al at a time to smaller germ-free
apparatus for scientific research in med-
ical problems.
The Kev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of Notre Dame, announced
during the dedication ceremonies the es-
tablishment of LOBUND as “an Insti-
tute for Research in the Life Sciences.”
Speaking at the dedication ceremonies
of LOBUND’s new Germ-Free Life Lab-
oratory, Dr. J. R. Blayney, Director of
the Walter G. Zoller Memorial Clinic at
the University of Chicago, declared that
the “germ free animal technic has now
positively demonstrated that dental de-
cay in the white rat does not occur in
the absence of microbic life.”
Dr. Blayney described experiments
seeking the cause of tooth decay which
are being conducted in LOBUND in col-
laboration with the Zoller Memorial Den-
tal Clinic.
Dr. Charles F. Kettering, Vice-Presi-
dent and Research Consultant of the
General Motors Corporation, Detroit,
Mich., concluded the first day of the ded-
ication program by declaring that there
are enough natural resources on the
earth to keep civilization going for at
least 2,000 years. And by that time, he
added, the human brain should have
been able to discover additional conser-
vation methods.
“Nature is here to tell us her secrets
if we ask her in her language,” Dr.
Kettering said of both his research and
that of LOBUND.
Also on the program were: Dr. Charles
DeKoninck, Dean of the Faculty of Phi-
losophy at Laval University, Quebec,
Canada; Dr. Robert Chambers, Profes-
sor’ Emeritus at New York University;
Dr. Ira L. Baldwin, Vice-President of
Academic Affairs at the University of
Wisconsin; Dr. Bradley Dewey, Presi-
dent of the Dewey and Almy Chemical
Company, Cambridge, Mass., and Chair-
man of the Advisory Council for Science
and Engineering at Notre Dame; Rear
Admiral T. A. Solberg, U.S.N., of Wash-
ington, D. C., Chief of Naval Research;
Dr. Oram T. Woolpert, Director of the
Biological Department of the U. S.
Chemical Corps, Camp Detrick, Md.; Dr.
John H. Teeter, of New York City, Can-
cer Research Administrator of the
American Cancer Society and the Da-
mon Runyon Memorial Fund; and Mr.
Watson Davis, of Washington, D. C.,
Annual Writers' Meeting
Held on ND Campus Again
The second annual Writers’ Confer-
ence was held at the University of Notre
Dame recently. Heading the workshop
was Miss Caroline Gordon, author of
“Women on the Porch” and “The For-
est of the South.” She is known as a
novelist, critic and short story writer.
Others on the staff included, Father Leo
Ward, c.s.c., Professor J. F. Nims, Pro-
fessor Richard Sullivan and Professor
John T. Frederick.
U. S. Leads in Education
Time, April 3, 1950, says that “since
V-J Day we have built in the U. S. 150
new four-year and two-year colleges,
and expects us to add 75 of these in
1950. Our 1808 colleges and universi-
ties and 2J4 million students give us No.
I world ranking. But the competition
will be keen if we are pinched.”
Excuse, Please
The name of John Parchem, co-author
of Supersonic Speedway, Spring, 1950,
Notre Dame, was inadvertently omitted
from the article. Mr. Parchem is an
assistant professor in the Department of
Aeronautical Engineering, and gradu-
ated from Notre Dame with a B.S. de-
gree in 1944. During the past year he
has been studying at the University of
Michigan.
22
Notre Dame
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS