a^ne
i 94a
OCTOBER
Paper Preserves
Our Contributors
rr
Pilgrimage to Lourdes ;
David Van Wallach .
Pianos, Celluloid and Footlights
John R. Kennedy . . . ,
“ The Mediaeval Institute
V Rev. Gerald B. Phelan,
Joseph A. Doyle ......
Paints and Clays in "Seventh He^en"
F-
The T-Formation
Bernard A. Crimmins . £ . .
Football Preview
“ Raymond J. Donovan
Regilding the Dome
John N. Cackley, Jr. . .
The Early Years of No^e Dame
(Second in a Series) . .
The President's Page
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,	°
President of The University of Hofre Dame
There IS a University!
Francis Wafface ...... a
3
7 :
9
w
$
13
. . 14
. . 16
The Library's Relatives Have .Moved In to Stay
19
. . 20

4 1


if

NO.
24

o
1

?

The University of Notre Dame
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
Flistory; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department’ of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) •Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame
Published quarterly by The University of Notre Dame at Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second-
class matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor • John N. Gackley, Jr., ’37, Managing Editor
1
OCTOBER • 1948
NO. 2
me
President's Page
FJpHE University has proceeded for the last several years on the
conviction that a progressive Graduate School is necessary to
give vitality and tone to the work of the undergraduate departments
and to keep Notre Dame abreast of the other great universities in
its contribution to the advancement of learning.
Notre Dame spent in the year 1947-48 $982,000 for teaching
and research in the Graduate School. Of this, $427,000 was fur-
nished by private industries, government agencies and individual
contributors sponsoring particular research projects.
The remainder, or approximately $555,000 came as income from
present endowments and from auxiliary operations of the University.
The total amount of $555,000 spent in the Graduate School
during 1947-48 is a fixed annual expense. It will be repeated in
1948-49, and in each year to come. In order to sustain this total
annual expense by income from endowment, thereby assuring a
permanent source of funds for each future year and freeing surplus
from auxiliary operations for building, additional endowment of
approximately $22,000,000 is needed.
What has been accomplished? In all modesty, it may be said
that in the physical sciences, our Departments of Chemistry, Metal-
lurgy, Physics, and Mathematics are outstanding. An excellent staff,
well balanced between zoology and botany,, has been assembled in
the Department of Biology. Some members of this staff are trained
to apply to biological problems the new techniques of radio-active
substances. The Laboratories of Bacteriology have made continuous
progress, and new laboratory buildings are nearing completion. In
Arts and Letters excellent work on a graduate level is done in the
Department of History, Political Science, Philosophy, and English.
Among the noteworthy discoveries and achievements in research
are: mass production of germ-free life in the Laboratories of Bac-
teriology; the work on anti-malarial drugs and noticeable develop-
ment in radiation chemistry; the development of synthetic rubber
and allied products; excellent research in nuclear physics, electronics,
and metallurgy; and the scholarly symposia in mathematics.
It is not in Notre Dame’s plan to expand the Graduate Schot'
indefinitely. The enrollment of the Graduate School is to be re-
stricted to a reasonably small proportion of the entire enrollment of
the University.
It is not in the plan to convert Notre Dame into a school of
technology for producing gadgets. Graduate study and research are
an integral part of the University, directed chiefly to turning out
highly intelligent, responsible graduates who will be leaders in their
respective fields.
With further help of alumni and friends of Notre Dame, we
hope to strengthen our graduate work in mediaeval studies, in
international politics, in sociology, and economics—branches that
vitally affect our American way of life.
Everyone who wants to see Notre Dame in an eminent place
among the universities of the world rejoices as the Graduate School
moves forward; everyone who holds a Notre Dame degree or hopes
to earn one profits by every advance made, because the Graduate
School adds effectiveness to Notre Dame education and to the
general prestige that the University enjoys.
President, The University of Notre Dame
Director, The University of Notre Dame Foundation
Vol. I
No. 2
3
There IS a University!
By FRANCIS WALLACE
Just twenty years ago (and I do hope
this is not prophetic) Rockne ran into his
only bad year as a coach. There had been
a long period of successes. High school boys
were, being told, as now: “Why go to No-
tre Dame and sit on the bench?” A few
early-season injuries to key men and bango!
The panic was on.
The squad went into Yankee Stadium
fighting for its life, as it had been doing
every week. Already there had been two
losses and a tie, and the victories had been
skated over thin ice. Against a great Army
squad, led by Chris Cagle, we were a 1-4
underdog, justifiably so, with Niemiec in
there on a bad leg and Fred Collins with his
wrist in a cast. (Pegler called it a ‘lethal
weapon.’)
That was the day Chevigny cried: “One
for the Gipper,” and when Johnny O’Brien
earned his title of “One-Play”—on a pass
thrown by Niemiec. (I want to get that in
here because Old Butch is getting tired of
strangers telling him about how O’Brien
caught that pass; and of answering, when
asked who threw it: “Who cares?”) It was
a highly dramatic game that finished with
Frank Wallace, '23, presents award to Mr. Thomas F. Howley, '09, prominent Wheeling, W. Va.,
businessman, as "typical Notre Dame alumnus" at dinner held in Wheeling. Also in the
picture from left to right: Most Rev. John J. Swint, Bishop of Wheeling, and Most Rev.
John K. Musso, '25, Bishop of Steubenville.
Army on our three-yard line in the dusk
and developed an argument as to whose ball
it was. (For the record, it was our ball—the
boys had just taken it away.) This was the
very sort of thing which had built up the
. old Army game. It had really aroused New
* York.
The next week I got on the 20th Century,
enroute to cover the Carnegie game for my
paper, the Daily News. On the train I met
W. O. “Bill” McGheehan, of the Herald-
Tribune, the most powerful voice in sports
at that time. He grinned apologetically:
“Just before I left the office I wrote a col-
umn in which I said I was going out to
South Bend to investigate the rumor there
was a university located there. So tell me
about it.”
I told him. In the morning we got off at
Elkhart. Johnny Mangan was there, looking
for Joe Byrne. So Bill and I rode in style.
I had Johnny drive us all over the historic
campus spots. There were no hotel rooms
so Rock, who was no dummy about publi-
city either, took us in. The grand tour
continued. We went to the noon lecture, to
the afternoon practice; in between visited
Rock’s old room, Gipp’s old room, etc., and
if I didn’t always have the right rooms, who
knew or cared?
That evening Rock was out for an hour,
taking the squad to Niles. (The only time,
to my knowledge, the team ever left the
campus the night before a game.) As Bill
and I sat before the radio, this cynic who
had left home 24 hours before to investigate
a rumor about a University, said almost to
himself but quite sincerely: “Gee—I hope
we win tomorrow!”
We didn’t win. We lost at home for the
first time in 22 years. That night Rock took
us to the train. Joe Byrne and Art Parasien
were now with us. That morning at 11
o’clock, McGheehan had met Niemiec, the
star of the squad, on the porch of Sorin
Hall with a book under his arm. What he
was doing with the book three hours before
the big game I’ve never yet found out.
But ever after, Bill McGheehan was the
attorney for the defense in New York. He
had been there. He had seen for himself.
Well, people have been saying things
about the “football factory” again—things
which have given us a schedule problem;
things you sometimes hear from jerks who’ve
had three drinks; but not always from jerks.
You can get mad at these people; you might
be tempted to let one go at the whiskers.
But it’s not that simple. That’s not the
remedy. Most people do think of Notre
Dame primarily as a football school, identify
it with football.
That’s not as we want it, nor as it is; but
Notre Dame made the situation; and it’s
up to Notre Dame to correct it. It’s a long
job; it can be done; is being done; is pri-
marily an alumni job.
The athletic department of nearly every
university is its most effective promotional
department. Notre Dame is known as a foot-
ball school because its advertising has run
ahead of its product. Some people, and im-
portant people in our setup, think we should
play down our football advertising.
I’ve never thought so. Companies spend
big sums for advertising, as many did during
the war, just to keep the name before the
public. We get tremendous advertising for
free. We don’t want to high-hat it. We want
to be thankful for it. We want to keep it
going. We want to keep that foot in the
door while we do an intelligent selling job.
, That job is to convince the folks that
football is only the show window for our
product; that our athletic excellence merely
■ reflects the excellence of the school as a
whole; that we try to be as good in every
department as we are in football; that our
scores in the more prosaic but more im-
portant fields are as impressive as on the
football field.
I think we have that quality the good
salesman must have to be effective—a sin-
4
Notre Dame
cere belief in our product. When a Notre
Dame guy talks about his school it usually
comes from the heart. But, as intelligent
salesmen, we don’t want to kid ourselves.
People would much rather hear about
Rockne, Gipp, Leahy and Lujack, than
about Sorin, Nieuwland, Zahm, the Cava-
naughs and O’Donnells. So we want to give
them what they ask for; and then, with the
foot in the door, give them the rest.
The real Notre Dame story, as all of us
know it who have lived there, is actually a
better story than the football story. The real
story of Rockne, Gipp, Lujack, Leahy and
the rest, of the influence of Notre Dame
upon all of these people who have influ-
enced other people, is a better story than
their athletic achievements. It’s a better
story because it is a human story, a demo-
cratic story, a truly great American story
in the best traditions of success and develop-
ment.
If I may slip in a commercial here my-
self, that’s the story I’m trying to tell in a
book I’m now writing for publication in the
fall of ’49. I’m calling it “The Notre Dame
Story.” I’m telling it through the football
approach because I want it to be bought
and read. I’m putting the football foot in
the door, giving them Rock and the rest;
but I’m also telling how these athletic heroes
happened to come to Notre Dame; how they
lived as students; the other things they did
—the other things and other people of the
full Notre Dame tradition. I’m hoping to
show them just why Notre Dame can’t help
being good at football—too.
That’s my pitch, as the salesmen say.
We should return to advertising. Roughly,
Notre Dame has had three publicity periods
and I’ve been around long enough to have
lived in all. The first was when we hoped
to be written about; when we were thrilled
by a mention in “The Wake” or by Ecker-
sall—or anybody. The second was when we
got plenty of mention—a period climaxed
at last year’s Army game when Leahy had
to move his press conferences into the
Rockne Memorial lounge because the cam-
pus was overrun with metropolitan writers.
The third is now—when we want to con-
vince everybody who has ever heard of No-
tre Dame—and who hasn’t by now?—tnat
there is a University located there.
The first method is obviously that of for-
mal University publicity. That is in the
competent hand of experts like John Hinkle
and Charlie Callahan.
The second method is in the creation and
utilization of added opportunities to spread
the deeper gospel in an effective and enter-
taining manner—and by entertainment I
mean anything which will attract and hold
the mind. The best demonstration we’ve had
of that was the broadcast speeches of Father
John and of Pat Manion last Universal No-
tre Dame night—when many people for the
first time began to realize what a strong
bulwark this University has always been of
the true American tradition.
The Foundation staff has been doing an
increasingly smart job in this field. Harry
Hogan seems nothing less than providential;
and I wasn’t just kidding when I told him
I hoped someday to see a Hogan Hall at
Notre Dame. And back of Harry are the
quieter folk who transmit the impulses of
The Author
(A Story in Itself}
T^RANGIS (Frank) Wallace is one of Notre Dame’s best known “All-Americans,” though
he never played football. We’re particularly proud of an almost endless line of outstanding
sons, and Wallace is one of the favorites. He finds time, in a busy professional routine of novel
and magazine writing, to be an active vice-president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
His colorful and diversified career began ’way back in September, 1919, when his fresh-
man class enrolled at the University. The immortal Knute Rockne, then head football coach,
appointed Freshman Wallace to be athletic publicity “director.” The following four years
saw such headliners as George Gipp, Hunk Anderson, Elmer Layden, Frank Thomas, Eddie
Anderson, Slip Madigan, and Jimmy Crowley digging their cleats into football’s field of fame.
Wallace wrote enough copy to paper the gymnasium walls, but he also absorbed enough of
the abstract to earn a degree in Philosophy with the class of ’23. And he impressed our Doctor
Cooney with his journalistic ingenuity.
Wallace spent 12 years after graduation in New York City reporting football, boxing and
baseball as Night Sports Editor and Assistant Night City Editor for the Associated Press, and
as a staff member of the News, Mirror, World-Telegram and Post. He covered the training
camps of Gene Tunney and Jack Dempsey, and traveled with the New York Yankees, Giants
and Brooklyn Dodgers.
The transition from newspaper reporting to magazine writing was a natural for Wallace.
He “broke in” with the old Scribner’s in 1927, and since then has been a consistent
contributor of short stories, serials and articles in The Saturday Evening Post, Colliers, Red-
book, Cosmopolitan, American, Look, Liberty and Readers Digest. During the past 19 years,
Wallace has been identified particularly as a writer for The Saturday Evening Post, and once
had three serials published in The Post in 18 months. His “Pigskin Preview” is an annual Post
feature appearing just prior to the opening of football season.
“Kid Galahad” is probably the most popular of Wallace’s ten published novels. It was
serialized in The Post, twice made into motion pictures and dramatized in three radio shows.
Wallace also authored seven football novels, in addition to a full length detective story and a
fiction thriller on a coal mining disaster. The latter book, called “Explosion,” received high
praise as an authentic and understanding description of a typical mining community.
Paramount, MGM, RKO, Warner Bros, and Columbia Pictures produced six Wallace
novels into five-star movies. During World War II, as a Hollywood screen writer, he helped
to organize Motion Pictures Alliance—the first avowed anti-Communist group in motion
pictures.
Radio “commentating”—with Ted Husing, Harry Wismer and Clem McCarthy on foot-
ball, boxing and horse racing—has been another of Wallace’s varied pursuits. Although he
acted as political scout for Jim Farley during the Roosevelt administrations, Wallace has
been approached by both major political parties to run for Congress in 1950. He s as much
at ease on a public speaking platform as he is pounding out a story in his Bellaire, Ohio, home.
With his wife and one son, John, a junior at Linsley Military Institute, in nearby Wheel-
ing, W. Va., Frank Wallace manages to shoot a very good golf game in the high 80’s, enjoy
a wholesome family life and do some extremely fine writing.
Notre Dame men especially, and the reading public in general, will be interested in two
Wallace novels due in 1949—“The Notre Dame Story,” to be published by Rinehart & Co.,
and “Giant Rookie,” Westminster Press.
this human dynamo—led by Jim Armstrong,
the All-American Shock Absorber.
Among the faculty people, Big Jim Mc-
Carthy and Pat Manion are blazing the way
for the others who will follow.
The big job, however, can be done by the
Joe Doakes and George Spelvins of the
alumni—because it is a day-by-day job and
they are out there every day meeting people;
not only their own people, but the folks
who have no university of their own and
have sort of adopted us—chiefly, whether
you like it or not, because of football. Then
there are the people from other universities
who are fair-minded, and most of them are.
Part of this work can be done by Notre
Dame club activities; by following the pio-
neering jobs done in New York, Chicago,
St. Louis and other major centers where
they are most easily done, of course. There
is unlimited room for development here; and
now that the Foundation is rolling, that’s
something the Alumni Association will be
giving more time to.
But it’s primarily an individual job.
Every man reflects his bringing up. Part
of his development is his college. People will
judge Notre Dame most by what each No-
tre Dame man does; how he lives, what he
actually is.
On last Universal Notre Dame night, our
Continued on page 21
Yol. 1 • No. 2	5
6
Notre Dnme
The
Mediaeval
Institute
By REV. GER ALB B. PHELAN
One of the Most Important and Fascinating
Developments in Modern Higher Education
One of the world’s most promising insti-
tutes for higher studies and research . . .
with a rather awesome name but a very
simple and straightforward purpose ... is
Notre Dame’s two-year-old Mediaeval Insti-
tute.
It is engaged in a thorough study, accord-
ing to the best modern methods, of the long
tradition of Christian culture which is still,
consciously or unconsciously, the vital factor
in the day-to-day living of millions of people.
The clearest expression and the most vi-
rile embodiment of that tradition to be
found in history occur during the Middle
Ages. That is why they afford the most
promising field for investigating the roots
of Christian thinking and Christian living.
The Faith which Christ delivered to His
Church has shaped and formed western civ-
ilization through long ages of prayer, study
and work. We Americans belong to that civ-
ilization. It is the inheritance which our
forefathers brought with them from their
European homelands.
Although the world at large (our country,
too) has lost a great deal of that which
gave vigor and strength to that legacy of
Christian thought and life, the cultural cap-
ital upon which we live is nevertheless the
spiritual and intellectual wealth of that in-
heritance, amassed through centuries of
Catholic thinking and Catholic living.
But we have been living on our capital
for generations. In Europe that capital seems
well nigh exhausted. Here in America lies
the hope, perhaps the only hope, of retriev-
ing our losses.
To rebuild and increase that capital, to
restore vitality and power to those Chris-
tian traditions of living and thinking, to re-
capture that culture and adapt it to the
needs of our own age and to protect it
against false and subtle ideologies, foreign
and hostile to its very spirit, a thorough,
painstaking and laborious effort is required.
We need to achieve a clearer understanding
and a deeper appreciation of the treasures
of knowledge we have inherited from the
Christian past and of the rich principles of
humane Catholic living to which we have
fallen heir.
Notre Dame is prepared to make that
effort. From the very beginning, when
Father Sorin came with his companions to
this country to preach the gospel and to
establish a college, the twofold purpose of
the Fathers of Holy Cross has been to culti-
vate holiness of life and to promote true
Catholic learning. Notre Dame has been
faithful to its trust. It has trained genera-
tions of boys in the practice of religion and
in liberal and professional studies. It is now
ready to carry on that same task on still
higher levels.
Over the years, Notre Dame has develop-
ed and expanded its material equipment;
and it has broadened its range of scientific
research, all the while preserving and stead-
ily deepening its religious and spiritual life.
Growth is a sign of vitality, and Notre
Dame has grown uninterruptedly. Now the
time is ripe for her to launch forth into a
new and highly appropriate endeavor. The
results which may be confidently expected
from this fresh venture will crown the pro-
gress which Notre Dame has made over.
generations of sustained and fruitful effort.
To become the center of the most highly
developed Catholic scholarship seems to
have been inscribed in the destiny of this
venerable institution from the days when
the courage, vision and holy daring of its
founder, Father Sorin, first envisaged the
establishment of a great center of Catholic
learning and culture in this country. To-
day that courage and that vision are fully
justified in the creation of the Mediaeval
Institute.
No mere antiquarian curiosity or archeo-
logical interest prompted the establishment
of this center of research. Quite the con-
trary. Its concerns are eminently contempor-
ary. It proposes to bend all its efforts to un-
earthing, interpreting and rendering avail-
able to this twentieth century accurate in-
formation about the Ages of Faith: to reach
a precise understanding of the thought
which guided the development of Catholic
culture in the Middle Ages and the motives
which gave direction to the lives of mediae-
val men; to gain a thorough knowledge of
the institutions which grew up in those ages
of Catholic civilization; to acquire a just
and accurate appreciation of their art and
of the culture which they fostered. In a
word, to discover and trace the workings of
lofty human purposes, guided by Christian
ideals, through all the aspects and phases of
a basically Catholic civilization and to trans-
late the underlying principles of that Chris-
tian culture into the language of contempor-
ary men, in order thereby to bring its influ-
ence to bear upon the personal problems of
present-day living and upon the broader
Vol. 1
Pio. 2
7
social, economic and political problems
which confront nations and peoples the wide
world over.
To achieve this purpose. The Mediaeval
Institute must build up an organized body
of highly trained and specialized scholars,
each inspired with enthusiasm for the legacy
of Christian learning and culture, the heri-
tage of the western world: each working in
close cooperation with one another to make
a complete inventory of its treasures, to sep-
arate what is permanent and essential from
what is ephemeral and accessory, to form a
fair and just estimate of all that it contains,
assessing its failures as well as its successes,
and to make available to the men of our
day the abiding truths and values it en-
shrines.
Scholars of various types will be required
to carry on the sort of study and research
which The Mediaeval Institute proposes to
do when it is fully established and running.
Theologians will be needed '.s well as phil-
osophers, both highly trained in the history
of their subjects. Historians r-iust be there.
Experts in Roman and Mediaeval Canon
and Civil Law. Liturgical scholars, special-
ists in Palaeography, Mediaeval Latin and
Early Vernacular Languages and Litera-
tures. authorities on Mediaeval Art and
Archaeology, Mediaeval Science and Medi-
cine. Mediaeval Jewish. Arabian and Byzan-
tine cultures—all will be needed to accom-
plish the task which The Mediaeval Insti-
tute has undertaken.
To supply these scholars with the tools to
do their job, special library equipment must
be provided. Large and expensive collec-
tions of source materials containing the rec-
ords of mediaeval life and the writings of
mediaeval masters are essential for the work
of research.
Much of the material needed for the
study of the Middle Ages is still extant only
in unpublished manuscripts hundreds of
years old. It has been estimated by one of
the great mediaeval scholars of the day that
the quantity of such manuscript material
now stored in the vaults of the great li-
braries of Europe or in State and public ar-
chives or in the hands of private individuals
is so vast that it will take generations to get
it catalogued and at least two hundred years
to have it published. Meanwhile, much of
this material is available to scholars by
means of modern methods of photography,
photostat and micro-film reproductions.
These are the tools with which the worker
must be supplied.
Members of the Institute staff will have
a threefold task to perform:
1.	To edit and publish previously un-
printed texts of mediaeval works and to pre-
pare critical editions of works already in
print, but only in editions which are de-
fective and unsatisfactory or inadequate for
scholarly purposes.
2.	To prepare and publish critical studies,
articles, monographs and books on subjects
lying within their respective competences.
3.	To train young scholars in the discip-
lines and methods of scholarly research and
scientific historical study of the Middle Ages
so that they, in turn, may be prepared to
carry on their own personal investigations
and to train others in mediaeval scholarship.
Students will be admitted to the Insti-
tute to work under the direction of the
members of the staff; and, upon completion
of their studies, they will receive a Diploma
from The Mediaeval Institute. Only gradu-
ate students adequately prepared to enter
upon advanced study in the field of mediae-
Continued on page 25
Rev. Joseph N. Garvin, C.S.C., Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., and Rev
Gerald B. Phelan putting heads together over some prized Institute papers
Pianos,
Celluloid
and
Footlights
By JOHN R. HENNERY
WASHINGTON HALL
To the visitor walking about the Notre
Dame campus, Washington Hall looks like a
quiet, peaceful church—a tall spire, ivy
growing on the walls, and Gothic lines. But
a quiet, peaceful church is about as far from
the real character of this building as anyone
can get
From early morning ’til late at night, the
old building is noisily alive. At the rear you
can hear students practicing piano lessons in
one or another of 20-odd practice rooms in
the two-story section that houses the School
of Music. In the front, under the main sec-
tion of Washington Hall—the university’s
auditorium—the only recreation room on
the campus is filled with students, particu-
larly during leisure hours, when pool
and ping-pong tables are in great demand—
almost as much as the three telephone
booths. Upstairs in the auditorium you are
likely to find a class in session, play in re-
hearsal, movie, oratorical contest, debate,
lecture, musical, meeting, or orchestra
practice. If there is an activity that needs
room and a place can’t be found to hold it,
Washington Hall does the job.
Activity of this sort is nothing new to
Washington Hall. Right from the start, ex-
pediency was a part of its life. Back in 1879,
the young University decided that the
School of Music needed a permanent home
of its own, a place with facilities for instruc-
tion, for the students to practice and where
concerts could be held. Before the construc-
tion work was finished three years later, the
Music School eagerly moved in and went
to work. It was from this first tenant that
th ■ first name of the building came—Music
Hall.
Necessity was not through with the build-
ing. It caused the construction and it stuck
with the hall. The University needed a place
where the students could relax and enjoy
themselves after classes: and the two, large
ground-floor rooms under the Music Hall
took on the job. More recently, the 100-
piece marching band was looking for a place
to call home—a place to store instruments
and practice, so one of the recreation rooms
was closed and the band took over.
With a new auditorium seating three
times as many people as there were students
at Notre Dame in earlier days, every con-
ceivable sort of group activity moved to rhe
new hall: visiting lecturers, musicians, mis-
cellaneous stage presentations. Because of
the variety of activities other than musicals,
the name was changed to Washington Hall.
Years passed and enrollment figures
climbed. The auditorium capacity became
too small. The large center aisle was re-
moved and two smaller, side aisles were
substituted. At the same time the iron
steps that went up to the main floor out in
front of the building were removed. In their
place doors were cut through on the ground
level, leading to three flights of wooden
stairs. The changes increased the seating to
the present 841, which once was ample—
even for commencement exercises. Today's
enrollment is 4,500.
At least twice each year, the students pre-
sent a play, frequently the product of stu-
dent writing talent. In keeping with an idea
of Monsignor Ryan, of Catholic University
of America, of interesting more Catholics in
active participation in such entertainment,
school authorities at Notre Dame modern-
ized the lighting system as much as possible
and did what they could to make stage fa-
cilities better. Certain sections of the stage
are still unusable, either because of acou-
stics or visibility, but the shows are always
a success. Some of the fine results obtained
are due to the work of faculty members who
give their time and experience, and who are
uniquely gifted in recognition and develop-
ment of student talent.
The proposed Student Union Building,
one of the first of several buildings in an
expansion program Notre Dame hopes to
be able to launch in the near future, would
contain an auditorium capable of seating the
entire 4,500-man student body. Until this
new building becomes a reality, Washington
Hall's auditorium will continue to serve,
with other parts of the hall, as best they
can.
It is 70 years since the bricks were laid,
and ivy has reached the roof: but Washing-
ton Hall is still young in heart and alive
with activity.
Vol. 1
No. 2
9
“IT7ILL Notre Dame retain the national
’ ’ football supremacy, during the 1948
season, which her teams have established
during the past two years?”
The answer to this question may well be
provided for sports fans the nation over at
approximately 5 o’clock on the evening of
September 25th. And the answer, according
to Head Coach Frank Leahy, may well be
negative.
Most of the nation’s major collegiate grid
elevens, on the given date of September 25th,
either will be conducting their final intra-
squad scrimmages preparatory to opening
the season a week later, or will be playing
host to traditional “breather” opponents
who probably will not provide the opposi-
tion garnered by such an intra-squad scrim-
mage.
Notre Dame, however, will be meeting
Purdue in Notre Dame Stadium in one of
the stiffest opening-day assignments ever
handed any collegiate aggregation. Many be-
lieve this may mark the end—temporarily—
of Notre Dame’s post-war supremacy on the
college gridiron. And Coach Leahy, per-
haps rightfully, is one of the pre-season pes-
simists.
The Irish have gone 18 straight games
without defeat, but the Notre Dame mentor
believes the string will be broken in the very
first game when Purdue comes here on Sep-
tember 25th.
“Purdue outgained us on the ground last
year, and I’m afraid they’ll also have an
edge in the scoring department in this year s
contest,” said Coach Leahy. “We know
they have a very able coach in Stu Hol-
comb, fine spirit, and well-balanced ma-
terial from a year ago which has been con-
siderably supplemented by a strong fresh-
man squad.”
In discussing the remainder of the sched-
ule, Leahy states:
“Northwestern, with 29 letter-winners,
and a veteran performer at every position,
will be very tough. If Southern California
does not bounce back from those two de-
feats suffered at the end of last season, I’ll
be very much surprised. Pittsburgh has had
virtually the same team for three seasons,
having almost an entire freshman first team
in 1946. Michigan State, an old Notre Dame
rival from years ago, is a coming power
under Biggie Munn, as is Washington with
Howie O’Dell at the helm. Navy is always
one of the leaders in the East and quite
often as good as any team in the country.
We have not played Indiana since 1941,
but any time you encounter a Big Nine rival
you have a rough afternoon. Iowa and Ne-
braska, as the record books will show, have
always been Notre Dame jinxes. I suppose
I’ll be accused of moaning again, but if we
can get through these ten games, with but
three losses, I’ll count the campaign as suc-
cessful.”
In speaking of his own team, Coach
Leahy says:
“Leon Hart and Jim Martin are depend-
able and experienced performers at end; we
are very weak at tackle, the first four hav-
ing graduated. Capt. Bill Fischer and Marty
Wendell are good lads to have available at
the guard positions, but an injury to either
10 Notre Dame
Leahy’s Latest Laments:
Football
Preview
By RAYMOND J. BONOVAN
could be very serious. Bill Walsh and Walt
Grothaus have experience at center; Frank
Tripucka has had a long grooming period
for the quarterback job and we hope he’s
ready. Terry Brennan and Ernie Zalejski are
questionable products at left half because of
knee injuries and Coy McGee is too small
for steady work. Emil Sitko is a consistent
ground-gainer at right half but not a break-
away runner, and at fullback John Panelli
has a questionable knee while Mike Swisto-
wicz never seems to perform in the fall as
he does in spring practice. Notre Dame can
have a successful season if (1) we uncover
two tackles, (2) injuries are at a minimum,
(3) Zalejski, Brennan and Panelli recover
from their knee injuries and (4) Tripucka
makes good at the all-important T-quarter-
back assignment. All of which adds up to
too many ‘ifs’.”
Going down the list of positions, we find
the end spots well fortified with such cap-
able veteran performers as last year’s second
team combination of Bill Wightkin and
Doug Waybright, plus Bill Leonard, Ray Es-
penan and Bill Flynn working behind Hart
and Martin.
No two positions on the squad could be
more wide open than the right and left
tackle berths. Not only did George Connor
and Ziggie Czarobski, a pair of All-Ameri-
cans, graduate, but so did their reserves,
Gasper Urban and George Sullivan. Ralph
McGeehee, who was on the third team last
year, and Gus Cifelli and Ted Budynkiewicz,
who were reserves of an even lower status,
appear to be the most likely candidates for
the varsity berths for the 1948 season. Jack
Fallon, second-string tackle in 1946, who
could not play last year because of a knee
injury, offers a ray of hope. If his knee
should be ready, the squad will have one
tackle of some game experience. Deane
Thomas, a newcomer, was hurt throughout
nearly all of spring practice.
At the guards, Capt. Bill Fischer won
All-American honors last season and could
be a candidate for similar rewards this year.
Marty Wendell is an adept line-backer on
the defense. Bob Lally and John Frampton,
both fighters but not too heavy, are back
from the 1947 squad. Dick Kuh is a sopho-
more possibility, while Steve Oracko will
handle the kicking-off and extra point as-
signments.
Bill Walsh, who will be after his fourth
monogram, and Walt Grothaus probably will
carry the brunt of the attack at center. Ger-
ry Groom, a sophomore, needs experience,
while Bill Vangen, oldest member of the
squad, will make a final try for a monogram.
He has been handicapped in the past by
successive leg injuries.
Tripucka, overshadowed by Johnny Lu-
jack and George Ratterman in the past,
will have a chance to be the head man this
season at quarterback. If he makes good,
one of Coach Leahy’s problems will be
solved. Gerry Begley and Roger Brown are
holdover reserves at this position, while Bob
Williams is a sophomore with possibilities
but needs much game experience.
The left halfback spot is another big “if”
spot in Leahy’s 1948 plans. If Terry Bren-
nan and Ernie Zalejski are sufficiently re-
covered from knee injuries to perform as
they are capable of doing, the Irish attack
will be strengthened. Coy McGee will get
spot assignments as will Lancaster Smith,
another lightweight.
At right half, Emil Sitko is a consistent
ground gainer and will be seeking his third
monogram. He has been consistently suscep-
tible to minor leg injuries in the past. Larry
Coutre showed improvement during spring
practice, and might be ready to shine this
season.
Another weakness may develop at fullback
if Panelli is hampered by his leg injury,
and if Swistowicz is not consistent in game
competition. Behind Panelli and Swistowicz
are Frank Spaniel, a reserve last year, and
sophomore Fred Wallner.
That’s the pre-season picture. Most
coaches and fans will agree that a team just
can’t lose three All-Americans like Lujack,
Czarobski and Connor and not feel the ef-
fects. Just how much the 1948 Irish will
miss this trio and the other graduates will
have been determined to a great extent on
September 25th.
Regilding
the Dome
	By JOHN N. CACKLEY, JR.
TpVERY familiar landmark—whether the White House in Washington, the Eiffel Tower in old Paree, or the Golden Dome at Notre Dame—gets its face lifted now and then.	who saw it. Rising 206 feet from the side-	“The stately pile is a specimen of archi- walk to the top of Our Lady’s statue, the	tectural grandeur without, while within, all Golden Dome will always be an outstanding	the graces of art have been observed in a feature of Notre Dame’s spacious campus.	system of modest ornamentation. The in- Airline pilots and highway tourists are quick	terior is lighted by gas, and warmed by
And bifocals haven’t been required lately for anyone to observe that the once-gleam- ing Dome has not been the usual shining	to point out, “There it is. . . .”	steam, this adding safety' to comfort, while t-j	>	the ventilation is perfect and the supply of Father Edward Sorm, G.S.C., the coura-	.	.	, , „	3 „	.	. .	’	.	5 ,	pure water abundant. ’ geous french, missionary priest who was di-
attraction of yore. Gold leaf was peeling off fast, and the beautiful Dome had a notice- able “moth-eaten” complexion. High in the air, a crew of steeplejacks is swinging perilously on bosun chairs and wooden scaffolding—regilding the world- famous Golden Dome for the first time since 1934. After three and a half months of hard, hazardous work, the job is almost finished.	rectly responsible for Notre Dame’s begin-	,,	.	, on .	. ,	. ning in 1842, long had visions of a magni-	f Measuring 139 feet at its largest circum- ficent Golden Dome surmounted by a statue of Our Lady, looking down upon the 1700- whlJe	V anCe °f }25 feet fr°m*he „ r u, tt •	tl c. ±	root °i the building to the crest of Our acre campus ot the University. The first	T . , Dome was placed on the old College Build-	ays statue. ing in 1865 It, too, had a statue of Our	It is interesti to know that the statue Lady, but the principal difference, then and	was the result of fund_raisin b	nearby St. now, was a white-faced Dome instead of	Mar/s College students_ After	the &e of e present go - ea e sur ace.	’79, it was determined to make	a replica of
Upon removing the chipped leaf, the Dome’s outer surface was thoroughly clean- ed. Next came a bit of repairing—patching those parts of the Dome and statue which were deteriorating. Later, coats of metal primer, paint and gold sizing were applied. And, finally, the precious gold leaf will re- store normality.	Notre Dame’s most disastrous fire occur-	that erected by Pope Pius IX in the Piazzi red in ’79. The College Building, and many	di Spagna, Rome, for the commemoration of others, were totally destroyed. Authentic rec-	the Immaculate Conception. ords of this disheartening event tell that the statue of Our Lady was found by Father	As it weighed 4,400 pounds, and was 19 Sorin in the smoldering ruins, standing up-	feet high, it was soon realized that hoisting right and intact, after plunging to the	the statue could properly be labeled a mon- ground from the top of the Dome.	umental task. An unknown Holy Cross _	Brother finally computed the mathematical
Three hundred and twenty-five rolls of gold leaf will have been used when the job is completed. R. J. Wolfe, a South Bend decorator in charge of the present opera- tion, previously regilded the Dome back in ’23, when the Four Horsemen were just be- ginning to ride. It is estimated that the total cost will be approximately $20,000. In- creased expenditures in materials and labor will cause the original University appropria- tion of $12,000 for this job to be more than slightly below par. Even in 1934, when big money was still wearing diapers, $8,500 was spent to clean and regild the Dome and statue.	Immediately the fire-scarred bricks had	formula for raising it skyward, after many’ hardly' cooled rehabilitation of the Uni-	leading engineers had thought the task im- versity’s burned facilities was underway that	possible. It took a day and a half to finish same year.	the entire operation. Signor Giovanni Meli, A , . .	. n ....	.	of Chicago, made the statue, and Luigi 1 he Administration Building was an arch-	, T ..	, .. .	,	t,,	.	, .	Gregon, renowned Italian artist, painted itectural marathon. Blueprints were submit-	t • ••>	-r>	*	r , ,r	\ A	...	the murals inside the Dome. A crown of ted on May I zth, the first stone was laid on	,	,	, . - t , .	. . , r •< n.i ,	j .	, . ,	twelve electric lights was originally attached May 19th, the second story was completed	, on June 28th and the third floor finished by	° e S a Ue‘ July 4th! The building, with its numerous	Visitors from every hamlet and state in angles and unusual facade, plus the classic	the nation have stopped to see the campu, pillars supporting the Dome, puzzles most	of Notre DamCj and to gaze with admiratlon people who try to classify it. The architect	at the	statue of Our Lady above said it was modern Gothic—even if the	tbe jyome ground plan did resemble a sort of fancy
In 1941, just prior to our nation’s en- trance into World War II, the Dome was scheduled to be regilded. However, the fed- eral government requisitioned gold leaf, a critical material, so the work was postponed until this summer.	T-formation.	The words of Father Sorin spoken in The Dome itself was not finished until	1844, seem prophetic. 1882, and several months later the statue	“When this school, Our Lady's school, was finally placed where it now rests.	, n	. •.	t u n * u in. 1 F	shall grow a bit more, I shall raise her aloft The Scholastic, student news weekly,	so that, without asking, all men shall know came up with a journalistic gem in describ-	why we have succeeded here. To that lovely
The Dome has long been symbolic of No- tre Dame, as well as an inspiration for all	ing the Administration Building to its read-	Lady, raised high on a dome, a Golden ers of ’79 as follows:	Dome, men may' look and find the answer.”
Vol. I
No. 2
13
It’s December, J843, and "John Smith”
is answering Father Sorin’s first ad for 
the new college
We suppose that John Smith from Fort Wayne picked up the
South Bend paper of December 2nd. He read the notice in-
serted by Father Sorin, mounted his horse and rode to the
lake.
Over on a high piece of ground, there was the noise of ham-
mering and sawing, the tinkle of trowel on brick. Smith rode
over slowly and, observing a tall be-cassocked man moving
among the workers, he drew alongside and said:
"I'm looking for a man named Father Sorin. Be ye him? I
seen your notice in the paper! My name's Smith."
"Ah, yes, yes!"
"I got a boy, a right smart ladr an' I thought mebbe we could
make some kind of a dicker for his schoolin'."
"How old is the boy?" asked Father Sorin.
"He's nigh onf fourteen now. His maw's dead, and I'm
thinkin' of catchin' me another wife. Thought's how the lad
might be better ofF away from the house!"
"Some arrangement, I think, can be made. Has the boy
been to school?"
"Oh, yes. His maw was a bright woman, and she spelled
him and learned him to write. What do it cost?"
"Well," said Father Sorin, "for $100 we will feed him, wash
and mend his clothes, give him medical attention; teach him
the complete English course—spelling, reading, grammar,
history, bookkeeping, surveying, astronomy! Yes, $100 a
year!"
"I ain't got $100," said Smith, quite simply.
"No? Well, perhaps some other arrangements might be
made," suggested Father Sorin. "How much could you pay?"
"Twenty-five or thutty dollars, mebbe. Could you use some
- corn meal?"
"Yes!"
"Could you take a couple o'hogs?"
"Yes!"
"My wife had a lot o'clothes. I don't suppose ..."
"No," said Father Sorin.
"Mebbe some furniture? I got a nice hautboy, brought out
from Vermont!"
"Yes, J think so," mused the priest.
"Do he get Latin, too?"
"No. That will cost another hog."
"Do he learn to play the piano-forte?"
"Ah, no, that is much extra! Two hogs! Two big ones!" ex-
claimed the priest.
John Smith said nothing until he had mounted. Then, turn-
ing to the priest, he said quietly but resolutely:
"I'll git the hogs!"
Second in a series of articles on the history of
The University of Notre Dame (adapted from
NOTRE DAME, ONE HUNDRED YEARS,
by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.)
TT was so cold in February, 1843, that
their bread froze . . . they had to “slice”
it with an axe . . . those last eight Brothers
of the Congregation of Holy Cross from St.
Peter’s (27 miles from Vincennes) . . .
moving north to join Father Edward Sorin
and the seven Brothers who had founded
Notre Dame on November 26 or 27, 1842.
In 20 days, they roofed a Chapel begun
by their predecessors; and, in July, the
staunch crew welcomed reinforcements from
France: two priests, another Brother and a
seminarian—and the four sisters who came
to live aloft under the Chapel roof—with
rats, fleas and spiders—and to wash, mend,
cook, nurse, and milk cows—so that what-
ever dollars they might acquire could meet
the pressing needs ahead.
A refectory, bakery, classroom, clothes
room and dormitories for the brothers and
hoped-for students were provided in their
first college building (“Old College,” still
standing and now known as the Mission
House)—and they prepared 60,000 feet of
lumber and 250,000 bricks for the new main
building while waiting for its architect to
arrive from Vincennes.
On August 28, four days after his arrival,
its cornerstone was laid—despite a very real
poverty. Samuel Byerly, son of the partner
of Josiah Wedgewood (Wedgewood China),
who had welcomed Father Sorin’s band to
New York from France less than two years
before, had moved to South Bend—and
made them a loan of $500 and extended a
$2,000 credit in his store. Father Marivault,
a new recruit, signed over a personal $1,200
inheritance.
The building was completed within the
year—in the course of which the school offi-
cially became The University of Notre Dame
du Lac by act of—but without the financial
assistance of—the Indiana General Assembly,
on January 15, 1844. (And Father Sorin’s
group managed at the same time to estab-
lish a Manual Labor School to teach trades
to orphans arriving from Philadelphia and
elsewhere—first Catholic trade school in the
United States).
Few of the first students were ready for
anything more than gradeschool work. All of
the professors spoke French, few spoke Eng-
lish—a serious barrier to neighborly rela-
tions in northern Indiana! They were even
without mailing facilities—until Henry Clay
acted in their behalf by facilitating authori-
14
Notre Dame
the . arly Years
of Notre Dame
AN INSPIRING RECORD OF RESOURCEFULNESS •
TENACITY • FIRE • CHOLERA • MALARIAL FEVER
• POLITICS • AND THE WAR RETWEEN THE STATES
zation of a post office at Notre Dame, with
Father Sorin as postmaster. After that, four-
horse coaches stopped on their thrice-weekly
run between Logansport, Indiana, and Niles,
Michigan.
Money problems dogged them constantly,
but they were resourceful: the marl beds
surrounding the lake supplied them with
ideal brick-making material. They sold many
of their bricks for revenue. Campus build-
ing projects—biggest of which was the
Church—took care of the rest.
The year 1849 was brightened by the
University’s first real Commencement, at
which two B.A. degrees were given, and by
completion of the Church. According to
plans, the Bishop was to come to preside at
the consecration of the Church. So, with
only a few dollars on hand—not enough to
cover the cost of the ceremonies and fire
insurance for their Church and other new
buildings—the faculty (to their later re-
morse) deferred the insurance in favor of
the ceremonies.
On November 18, the Apprentices’ Build-
ing was swept by flames . . . just as the
Main Building earlier had been damaged
by fire while under construction . . . and
all food, the kitchen, bakery, altar linens and
the stable went up in smoke. South Bend,
Detroit and Cincinnati came to Notre
Dame’s aid with funds and food, while a
priest went on an 18-month tour of France
to solicit additional money.
It was in this same year that the Uni-
versity, ever pressed for funds, hopefully sent
two priests on the ‘Forty-Niners’ gold-rush.
One of them died; the other found no gold.
But there were other troubles: the nation-
al epidemic of malarial fever and cholera
infiltrated the campus and became a major
problem from 1847 to 1855. In their worst
stages, they laid every Notre Dame faculty
member low. Parents stopped sending their
children to school. Some of those who kept
on at school died. Some of the faculty died.
“Conditions could hardly be kept secret, and
when professors did not appear for class,
the students suspected the worst. Their fears
were confirmed when, day after day, the
mounds of sandy clay increased in the cem-
etery.”
In 1850, there were boys of every age at
Notre Dame—more in the grade and pre-
paratory schools than in the college. So the
discipline imposed was more for children
than for grown men. Today it would be
called strict, although attempts to discour-
age older students from chewing tobacco
in the classrooms were not successful.
Gifts to the University in its early days
were few and far between. The school’s
greatest single donor was the Association for
the Propagation of the Faith in Lyons,
France. Between 1842 and 1869 Notre
Dame received from this source an amount
just short of $50,000. And she well remem-
bers her gift of $700 from the King (Louis-
Phillipe) and Queen of France.
Being in a northern state, Notre Dame
may be said to have been “pro-Blue”—even
if there also were many Greys on the cam-
pus in the days of the War Between the
States. Until the war, the University had
successfully avoided political embroglios . . .
county, state and national. Flare-ups natu-
rally arose out of the differences between
allegiances of the boys from the South and
of the North. The school took this stand:
if you want to leave school to go to war, go
and may God be with you; but settling of
personal differences on the campus will not
be permitted.
It was also during the Civil War period
that Notre Dame became involved in local
politics. Prior to this time, the religious at
the school had not even voted in the elec-
tions. But now they were to be put on the
spot—by Schuyler Colfax, of South Bend—
candidate for Congress on the Republican
ticket. It was through the auspices of the
Republican party, Colfax pointed out, that
Notre Dame held its post office. It was by
the grace of the Republican party that the
brothers were receiving exemption from mil-
itary service.
So, Colfax demanded, would it not be a
fitting gesture of gratitude toward the ad-
ministration if the religious at Notre Dame
came to South Bend and voted the Republi-
can ticket?
Father Sorin, reading the threat between
the lines, assured Colfax that he would call
a council meeting. At the meeting it was
decided that those brothers who could vote
should go to the polls and vote; but, of
course, the way they voted was to be a per-
sonal matter. And, “as most of the brothers
and other religious at Notre Dame were
Irish, and since many of the Irish of that
day were fanatically loyal to the Demo-
crats, they went to the polls and registered
their political independence. . . .
“Colfax was furious. The following month
the brothers’ exemption from the draft was
suppressed.” However, exemption was re-
invalidated soon thereafter by President
Lincoln.
This does not mean that Notre Dame was
not represented in the battlefields. A number
of University priests volunteered their serv-
ices as chaplains. They—and many of the
Sisters of the Holy Cross, who served with
distinction on the battlefields and in the
military hospitals—contributed immeasurab-
ly to the credit of Notre Dame and to the
spread of the Catholic faith in America.
Suprisingly, enrollment did not drop dur-
ing the war years. It increased. In 1860 there
were “213 boarders.” In 1863 there were
236.
Father Sorin left the Presidency in 1865,
but continued as Provincial.
The state of the University at that time
was good. Financially, it could have been
worse. Enrollment-wise, it was getting better
and better. Notre Dame was here to stay.
And that, to Father Sorin, the founder of
Notre Dame, was ample reward for his
sweat and tears.
Vol. 1 • No. 2
15
Pilgrimage
to Lo ur des
By DAVID VAN WALLACE
In this unusually interesting account of his pilgrimage
to the Shrine of Saint Bernadette, at Lourdes, France,
David Van Wallace notes that the trip really started back
in 1939—under sponsorship of the Notre Dame Club of
Detroit and the University of Detroit High School alumni.
His parents had planned to accompany him. The war
interfered, their pass-ports were cancelled, they returned to
Detroit and their money placed in bonds e‘for the duration.”
It wasn’t until July, 1947, that Van Wallace, with his
mother and cousin, Bill Olivier, Notre Dame ex-45, who
drove their special station toagon containing an ambu-
latory cot, were able to secure passage.
We pick up Van Wallace’s story in mid-August, 1947,
aboard the S.S. Ernie Pyle.
David Van Wallace at Lourdes.
Note Notre Dame ring mentioned by the author.
AlfE spent ten sunny days crossing a sea
’ ’ that was even smoother than Lake Erie
had been.
Finally, at LeHavre in the early light of
dawn, we were met by Father McQuillan,
C.S.C., who teaches English in a Holy Cross
College at Segre, France, and who, at
Father (Notre Dame President) John Cava-
naugh’s request, had come to meet and help
us.
I had never expected to see the day when
I would meet a Holy Cross priest who had
never seen Notre Dame. They must be few.
But Father McQuillan is one of them. He
was of tremendous help to us because, while
we were very well equipped with maps and
travel information, we were too well equip-
ped with a lot of stuff that had to be re-
viewed, stamped and argued over by local
authorities. And we found that the French
don’t believe in marking their highways
through cities and that apparently it is true
that no Frenchman will give you any infor-
mation without going into a major confer-
ence. So Father was invaluable in keeping
us on the route through the large cities and
in solving all the problems that arose with
the authorities and the hotel-keepers with
whom we came in contact. On the beaten
tourist track you can get by with English;
in the sticks you need French.
From Paris our route lay down the Loire
Valley with its famous chateaux and beauti-
ful Chartres Cathedral, the architectural
highpoint of our trip. Thence, on excellent
highways where we saw more cyclists than
automobiles, we drove down the Atlantic
coast through Bordeaux to Lourdes, which
is located in the foothills of the Pyrenees
only 16 miles from the Spanish border. It
was mid-September and the farmers in this
rich farming section were busy getting in
their crops, with sleek, buff-colored oxen
doing the hauling in the fields and along the
roads to barns that had stood there since
the Middle Ages.
The town of Lourdes itself is a small vil-
lage into which have been packed a large
number of small family-managed hotels and
a larger number of rooming houses which
accommodate, between Easter and October
every year, a million pilgrims—10,000 of
these sick with all the diseases and disabili-
ties known to man. The oldest part of the
town clusters around the foot of a towering
citadel rock on top of which an ancient for-
tress stands. Once held by the Saracens and
beseiged by Charlemagne, the fort has seen
much history in its day and now stands as
a sort of guard directly over the little prison
cell which huddles beneath the cliff face
and in which Bernadette and her family
lived when the Blessed Virgin appeared to
her 90 years ago. We had the privilege of
attending Mass in the little room which the
family occupied at that time. Seven by nine
feet, there was barely enough space for the
small altar, Father McQuillan with Bill
serving, and the congregation consisting of
my mother, Bill’s aunt, the nun in charge
and myself, in addition to a French woman
who wandered in, said nothing, followed the
Mass attentively with her missal and wan-
dered out, still saying nothing.
Tucked into every available cranny be-
tween the boarding houses, and occupying
Genera/ view of the Basilica at Lourdes
whole blocks in front of the hotels, are small
religious article stores, each dedicated to a
different saint. A walk along any of the nar-
row, crooked, hilly streets under these shop
signs is like a litany. Anyone who has been
to St. Anne de Beaupre in Canada has seen
the same thing, but with a difference—at
St. Anne’s the village encroaches on the
Basilica property so closely that one seems
practically in town most of the time and
mixed in with the stores and store-keeping.
At Lourdes, the Grotto area is large, prob-
ably a half-mile long and a quarter-mile
wide, with big trees, broad lawns and with
statuary groups and monuments scattered
here and there. The town is shut off effec-
tively from the religious atmosphere of the
Grotto.
If the spirit of Lourdes could be spread
around the world, most of the “scare” head-
lines would disappear from our newspapers;
and the problems besetting the world would
be replaced by hymns and rosaries. There
doesn’t seem to be anything there but
thoughts of God and His Blessed Mother.
I have never before recited so many snatches
of rosaries. That’s true of everyone, I guess.
Processions are continually winding by in
various directions, day and night, and one
finds oneself automatically joining in the
rosary rolling up from the river bank by
the Grotto, or drifting down from the Sta-
tions of the Gross on the mountainside
above. Whether or not a peace treaty had
been signed with Italy seemed unimportant,
and was.
I have always looked upon my pilgrimage
as an act of devotion to the Blessed Virgin,
and not primarily as a pilgrimage in search
of a cure. My cousin Bill had the idea pretty
well in mind when he told someone that
we were basing our pilgrimage on the Mem-
orate. You know—“Remember, oh most gra-
cious Virgin Mary, that never was it known
that anyone who fled to thy protection, im-
plored thy help or sought thy intercession,
was left unaided.” My own idea had always
been pretty’ much in agreement with Bill's
phrasing. I think, anyway’, that no matter
who would go to Lourdes looking chiefly’
for a cure, he would find it very, very’ hard
—probably impossible—to pray for himself,
once he had a look at all the sick who
flock there.
Probably nowhere else could you find so
much misery concentrated in one small area.
Brancardiers, who have had the care of
these sick for years are sometimes confront-
ed with cases so pitiable, so disturbing, that
even they are upset. Yet one of these Bran-
cardiers, an old Irishman who has taken
care of the sick regularly since before the
First World War, told me that he could
honestly say that, while he had lifted many
grumpy, complaining sick from the trains,
he had never put a departing “malade” on
a train who wasn’t smiling and uncomplain-
ing, filled with an entirely different spirit.
That is Our Lady’s greatest gift.
An average day at Lourdes for the sick
hinges largely upon these Brancardiers, vol-
unteers from half the nations of the world,
who work only for the love of God and His
Holy Mother and their counterparts, the
nurses who care for the women patients.
There are two large hospitals at Lourdes—
one right in the Grotto area and one a
short distance away’ in the town itself. We
stayed at a hotel near the Grotto to enable
all of us to be together in one place, but
the average pilgrim stops at one or the
other of the hospitals under the care of the
Brancardiers, the nurses and the nuns who
conduct the hospital.
The sick pilgrim is customarily taken to
the Grotto at an early’ hour for Mass and
Communion, returned to his hospital for
breakfast and then taken to the piscines,
small pools or tubs about eight by three
feet with steps leading down on either side,
enabling the Brancardiers to lower him into
the water. While they’ are dipping him, the
Vol. 1 • No. 2	17
Brancardiers and the pilgrim, each in his
own tongue, recite a series of short prayers
which are inscribed on the wall in a dozen
different languages, several of which may
be used at once.
After lunch and a second trip to the
pools the sick are lined up for Benediction
in parallel rows on either side of a large
paved esplanade in front of the three
churches built like three steps against the
mountainside, each above and a little behind
the church below, the topmost crowning the
rock directly above the Grotto.
On one of the days when we were there,
we were told there were 1,476 sick waiting
in the deep shade of the sycamore trees
that edge the pavement. While the Blessed
Sacrament is carried in procession from the
Grotto, thousands stand behind the lines of
stretchers and cluster thickly on the long
ramps which curve to the roofs of the lower
churches, reciting a series of prayers led by
a priest in the center of the esplanade, who
must, of necessity, possess the traditional
voice of Stentor. Again you may hear a
dozen languages at once, a tribute to the
universality of the Church. There is no
attempt to create any atmosphere of hysteria
which would produce imagined cures. Of
the 46 prayers recited, only half a dozen
refer to healing; and these could apply as
well to the ailments of the soul as to those
of the body. The rest are all acts of love
and devotion.
While these prayers are being recited, the
bishop or priest who represents the largest
pilgrimage at Lourdes that day is being es-
corted down the long lines of stretchers,
blessing the sick with the Blessed Sacrament
as he goes. A great many cures have taken
place at this time but there is no particular
rule or law that seems to be followed in
this respect; some are cured on the way to
Lourdes; some while in the baths or at the
Grotto, and some while on their way home
Grotto at the Shrine of Ste. Bernadette
or after they have reached home. The only
criterion demanded for the registering of a
cure as miraculous, of course, is that it be
beyond explanation by natural means. The
investigation is rigorous.
In the evening the crowds return for what
is surely the most spectacular and unforget-
able of the ceremonies: the candlelight pro-
cession. Thousands of people, each carrying
a lighted candle, form in procession at the
Grotto, parade slowly under the trees along
the river bank, wind up the huge semi-circle
of the ramp to the top of the church, then
down again and around the entire Grotto
area before returning to the space in front
of the churches. A cuplike arrangement of
stiff paper slips over each candle and pro-
tects the flame from the breeze. The verses
of the Lourdes Hymn, printed on the paper
and illumined by the flickering flame, are
sung over and over as the procession winds
through the darkness. The route is at least
three-quarters of a mile long, yet the head of
a given procession will have completed its
long walk before the tail of the procession
has even started, so in order to take up
time and give the rear guard a chance to
catch up, the leaders zig-zag back and forth
on the paved esplanade until the whole
crowd becomes packed in a solid mass in
front of the church steps. Then the entire
immense throng sings the Credo in Latin.
I made reference above to the cures at
Lourdes. They seem to be the point of chief
interest; at least, that’s what everyone men-
tions first when they ask about my trip. Al-
most the first thing done upon reaching
Lourdes is to present yourself at the Medi-
cal Bureau, where, after giving the history
of your case, sworn to by your local doctor,
you are interviewed and examined by the
doctors present at the time. My own record
was translated into French before it was
filed, and X-rays of my neck were taken, in
addition to regular photographs of me full
length on my cot, plus, for some reason
which I still don’t understand, close-ups of
my hands. Unfortunately, there were no Eng-
lish-speaking doctors and even Father Mc-
Quillan’s knowledge of medical French
wasn’t good enough to find out exactly why
my hands created all this curiosity. There
was no charge for these X-rays or other pic-
tures, of course, just as I understand there
is no charge for the sick to stay at the hos-
pitals in town. I was recalled to the Medical
Bureau several times to be examined by
other groups of doctors who had come in
company with pilgrimages that reached
Lourdes after we had been there a few days.
While the excited confabs were going on,
I had plenty of time to look around the
place: sparsely furnished rooms with pic-
tures on the walls of some of the cases that
have been cured, books of records, and so
forth. The thing that interested me most was
a glass case on the wall containing casts of
the leg bones of Pierre de Rudder, a Bel-
gian who was injured back in the 8O’s by a
falling tree. His leg had refused to heal for
some eight years, had become infected and
was just a stinking mess, discharging mat-
ter all the time from a wound that would
not close, entirely hopeless from a medical
viewpoint. Several operations had been per-
formed and more than an inch of bone had
been removed. With this gap in the bone
structure, it was possible to take the man’s
foot and twist it so that the heel would be
in front and the toes in back. Yet this leg
was healed instantaneously. Although a few
seconds before the cure, testimony shows,
it was limp as a rubber hose, all the dis-
eased tissue disappeared and was replaced
in a flash with healthy tissue and the more-
than-an-inch of bone, missing for years, was
instantaneously replaced with newly created
bone. The leg was completely healed and
perfectly usable. I had read of De Rudder’s
case so many times that it was fascinating
to see the actual casts of the bones of his
leg. After his death, when the bones were
removed for examination, it was found that
a hump had been left at the point of the
cure. Yet there was nothing that in any
way interfered with the function of the leg;
its length was the same as the other leg and
there was no interference in walking. This
retention of a trace of something wrong is,
I am told, a regular feature of all the cures
that take place there. Always a little evi-
dence is left to show-------“See, something
was wrong and it has been repaired. Don’t
forget it.”
My Notre Dame blanket was several times
recognized by Americans who introduced
themselves and gave us a chance to get our
head for a moment or two above the sea of
high-speed French in which we were flound-
ering. And on at least one occasion my No-
tre Dame ring was mistaken for a bishop’s
ring. A pious French woman, praying out-
side the piscine gate, excitedly nudged my
mother and, pointing at me, whispered:
Look, there’s a bishop about to enter the
piscine to be dipped in the water.”
We spent a little over 11 days at Lourdes
and then returned to Paris by way of the
town of Nevers where the Motherhouse of
the Order of the Sisters of Charity of Ne-
vers, the community which Saint Berna-
Continued on page 25
Iff
Notre Dame
The hibrary's Relatives
Have Moved in to Stay
By JOSEPH A. DOYLE
TXTHEN someone “goes to the library” at
’ Notre Dame, he may not be “going to
the library” at all.
He may be going in to see:
1.	Ruben’s Self-Portrait and Landscape,
VanDyck’s The Crucifixion, some Muril-
los, Tintorettos or Constables, or any of
the other 250 original masterpieces in
the Wightman, Braschi and Wickett
collections comprising one of the largest
and most valuable accumulations of
Christian art in the United States—
squeezed into six exhibition rooms and
the corridors. (To be treated more fully
in a future issue of Notre Dame).
2.	Or he may be on his way to visit the
two mezzanine rooms which house the
“yellowed gold” of the Archives (see
Page 24).
3.	Or he may be in search of the home
of the new and unprecedented Mediae-
val Institute—off in a couple of corner
rooms (see Page 7).
4.	He may want a look at Notre Dame’s
famous Dante Library—and such of its
volumes as a 15th Century .second edi-
tion—or maybe he’s headed for the Bu-
reau of Economic Research.
5.	Or he may have heard of some of the
Library’s miscellaneous treasures—several
Bibles printed in German and Latin in
the 15th Century, one of which is bound
in human skin and the former property
of Christopher Columbus; an auto-
graphed (five times) volume by Robert
Emmet, the noted Irish patriot; the
many private collections entrusted to the
University for safekeeping and exhibit,
and many others.
Or, of course, the poor fellow may just
want to “use the Library.” In which case,
his work is cut out for him.
For the above “relatives”—cherished as
they are by their blood-brother Library
Landlord, who was kind enough to let them
in when they had no other place to “set
up”—have only compounded the problems
of a Library built in 1917 for 600 students
and called upon today to meet the needs of
4,500 students!
JAMES EDWARDS MEMORIAL LIBRARY
The “relatives” have moved in to stay.
Not they, but the Library itself, is planning
and hoping for new quarters consistent with
the greater and greater opportunities which
have come to Notre Dame—for training
more and more young men in moral, respon-
sible leadership.
Meanwhile, almost incredibly good service
is being rendered under handicaps equally
incredible. Books are passing over the big,
six-sided circulation desk in the lobby like
hot dogs at a picnic . . . kids are studying
even on the floors when necessary . . . and
the acquisitions section and bindery are
working as never before.
When Rev. August Lemonnier, C.S.C.,
fourth president of the University, decided
in 1873 that the time had come to establish
a first-class library at Notre Dame, he pick-
ed a seasoned book collector, Professor
James Edwards, for the job. In six years,
he had placed 10,000 excellent volumes on
the shelves; but all were destroyed in 1879,
in the biggest of Notre Dame’s series of
disastrous fires.
Edwards started all over—and collected
volumes from all over the world: Cardinal
Newman donated an autographed set of his
complete works; Cardinal Barnabo of Italy
gave much of his own private collection;
John Gilmary Shea, General Rosencrans, the
Honorable W. J. Ohahan and many others
gave in response to Edwards’ plea. Soon the
third floor of the Administration Building
could hold no more.
The present Library (still known as the
James Edwards Memorial Library) was built
in 1917—for Notre Dame’s mere 600 stu-
dents of that day.
Thanks to a superb staff and its present
director, Paul Byrne, soft-spoken, gray-
haired gentleman who came to Notre Dame
as a “prep” student in 1906 and graduated
from the University in 1913, the Library
has fought much more than a merely “suc-
cessful” fight. A professional librarian, a stu-
dent library assistant while in school, and
reference librarian from 1922 to 1924, when
he became director, Director Byrne has
made “every little bit” count.
Last year was the biggest in the Library’s
history—but the budget was still small. Only
$50,000 could be spent for new acquisitions
—books, magazines and special works. For-
tunately, many of the University’s own pub-
lications bring valuable exchanges for the
periodicals department. Notre Dame’s Re-
view of Politics is exchanged for virtually all
political and current-events magazines; The
American Midland Naturalist brings in
many fine botanical and zoological publica-
tions; Mediaeval Studies and Mathematics
Colloquim also are responsible for acquisi-
tions at no further expense. Funds must be
found for still other periodicals, and for
newer works in philosophy and religion
needed by those expanding departments.
The Library, however, has been patient.
It realizes only too well that its opportuni-
ties for greater service must be considered
only as a part of the University’s over-all
opportunity for greater service—and that
it will take full realization of those oppor-
tunities by the University’s friends—and a
generous, understanding spirit on their part
—to help meet those responsibilities fully,
and in time.
19
$
Vol. I • No. 2
Paints and Clays
in “Seventh Heaven ”
QOME of today’s leading painters, sculp-
tors and industrial designers began their
careers in “Seventh Heaven”—Notre Dame’s
time-honored Department of Fine Arts.
“Seventh Heaven” is seldom visited by
students not interested in art courses—it's
located in the eagles’ nest under the golden
dome of the Main Building. The only way
to get there is to trudge up four flights of
stairs.
But it’s well worth the effort, if only to
see what a group of industrious boys and a
good imagination can do to a dingy, gray
room. An indoor Roman courtyard has been
recreated so that, much in the manner of a
stage set, models may pose in simulated out-
door atmosphere. A colorful impressionistic
floor has been installed and its bright colors
lend life to the gray walls. Murals of Latin
America and atmosphere sur la Seine, bric-
a-brac shelves, potted plants large enough
to carry birds, all have helped to dress the
Department up so that it well deserves its
“otherworldly” name.
Historically the Department antedates the
ancient structure in which it is housed by
many years. The Department, one of the
oldest on the campus, is in its 94th year. It
was organized in 1854 under the direction
of Julius Ackerman.
Mr. Stanley S. Sessler, the present direct-
or, assumed control of the Fine Arts De-
partment in 1937. Mr. Sessler is assisted
by Mr. Francis J. Hanley, Associate Pro-
fessor of Fine Arts, who teaches design and
drawing, and Mr. Eugene Kormendi, a
sculptor who hails from Budapest.
Mr. Sessler and Mr. Hanley served in
the armed forces during the war years. Be-
cause of this—and a sharp drop in ait stu-
dent enrollees during these years—the De-
partment, for the first time in its 94-year
STUDENT ART CLASS
history, closed for approximately one year.
When the word artist is mentioned, the
general impression among laymen is of a
long-haired character who is just a trifle
berserk and who spends his time in gloomy
garrets painting and starving to death si-
multaneously. The war records of Mr. Ses-
sler and Mr. Hanley alone are sufficient to
dispell this misapprehension. They would be
a sad disappointment to any one expecting
the frock coat and the Windsor tie. Nor are
their students escapists who do not wish to
face the realities of life.
When the matter is reduced to its essen-
tials, we are all artists at heart. Sidewalk
drawings and doodling are two examples of
the innate quality of the artist—just as
whistling and childhood experiments with
the harmonica are undeveloped forms of
musical self-expression. It is this inner urge
to portray our thoughts graphically which
the Art Department searches out and devel-
ops. Mr. Sessler maintains that anyone of
average intelligence capable of writing his
own name can be taught to draw.
The general trend of art students is to-
ward commercial art in some form. To
this end the courses of study are designed
along practical lines so that the student can
gain a livelihood through his art. The pro-
gram followed in teaching a student the
fundamentals of art is principally one of in-
dividual attention. Each student is an art
class all by himself and must be schooled in
the special aptitude which he possesses. That
small yearning to draw is nurtured through
four college years not only by specialized art
courses, but in conjunction with the other
courses offered in the College of Arts and
Letters, such a^ Literature, Philosophy and
History, in order to form a rounded-out
education. It is through this well balanced
education that the student is capable of do-
ing creative work and is not merely a tech-
nician versed in the mechanics of drawings
alone. The professor strives to keep the
student’s own style an individualistic whole
so that, upon his entrance into the field of
art after his graduation, he will be primarily
selling himself to his prospective employer,
and not as a carbon copy of the style of his
professors.
The courses offered consist of Drawing,
Painting, Decorative Design, Graphic Arts,
History of Art and Commercial Design.
Notre Dame art students have a splendid
opportunity to have their work reproduced
in the campus publications—a quite novel
opportunity not found in the majority ol
large universities. At the close of each year
the students hold a public showing of the
products of their talents, usually in the
Wightman Gallery. Students of Notre
Dame’s Art Department have gone forth to
fill important positions in industrial design-
ing, publications, and even in the fabulous
Kingdom of Hollywood.
But, despite its name, “Seventh Heaven”
long ago ceased adequately to meet the re-
quirements of an expanding university.
Tucked ’way up under the eaves . . . four
flights up . . . and ’way too small, it leaves
this year’s crop of art students working el-
bow to elbow. They won’t complain. They’ll
still call it “Seventh Heaven.” And, cramp-
ed working conditions or not, they’ll man-
age to get as much out of their training as
the students before them.
But the Department dreams of the day
when it will be able to move from its hum-
ble quarters so far above the rest of Notre
Dame into the new Fine Arts Building which
is included in the University’s projected
building program.
There Is a University
Continued from page 5
Ohio Valley Club gave an award to Tom
Howley, ’09, as the man who best represent-
ed in himself all the things Notre Dame
stands for. That was the news of our meet-
ing, it received the press headlines and pic-
tures—because our community knew what
kind of man Tom Howley really was; and,
through him, what Notre Dame is driving
at.
Bill McGheehan saw for himself, as an-
other New York reporter saw during the
last Army weekend. He was a Georgia boy
without, I suspect, much formal religion. I
had given him the fifty-cent tour earlier in
the week; and he was along when I started
to give it to a new arrival. The Georgia
boy said: “Let's go by that outdoor cathe-
dral again.”
He meant the mute, eloquent grotto.
But isn’t it all just that: an outdoor ca-
thedral, an American cathedral dedicated to
God, our country and our rights?
Don’t we believe it has the very things
for which all good Americans search, for
which so many now hunger?
Don’t we believe that here is not only
a university but perhaps the American Uni-
versity of the future?
Those who can come, see. We must try
to bring it to the rest.
Why?
That’s an interesting question each might
answer for himself; and the best of the axi-
swers might make a splendid article for the
next issue of this magazine. And, human
nature being what it is, the winners might
be allowed to name their own simple prizes,
the things they would most appreciate of
and from Notre Dame. That would be in-
teresting, too.
Audio-Visual Center Receives Praise
Two experts in audio-visual aids said that
Notre Dame has assumed leadership in
audio-visual education among Catholic ed-
ucational institutions. The experts, Eldon
Imhoff, vice-president of the Victor Anima-
tograph Corporation, Davenport, la., and
Eugene Sherwood, of Coronet Instructional
Films, Chicago, praised the newly-created
Audio-Visual Center organized here to de-
velop a film library so that other Catholic
universities, colleges, high schools, and ele-
mentary schools might draw upon it for
audio-visual training.
McCormack Bequest
Receipt by the University of Notre
Dame of a $1,000 bequest from the
late Miss Mary McCormack of Mem-
phis, Tennessee, recalls an old Notre
Dame family history.
Miss McCormack’s father, the late
James M. McCormack, was one of
three brothers to attend Notre Dame.
He entered in 1863 at the age of 13.
Coming from Tennessee during the
fateful period of the war between the
States, his lot was a rugged one; but
his loyalties to Notre Dame held
steadfast, and he became a staunch
friend of Father Edward Sorin,
founder of Notre Dame, and of Fath-
er William Corby, famous Civil War
chaplain.
Miss McCormack’s brother, Mi-
chael J., was the second generation
of the family to enter Notre Dame,
where he graduated in 1899. And it
was a very proud moment for the
grandfather when, in 1936, the third
generation, in the person of Donnell
J. McCormack, was graduated.
Father and grandfather were form-
erly in the cotton business. The third
generation Donnell has gone into
lumber.
Student Vets Approve Landlord Tax
Landlords who refuse to rent to families
with children should be taxed by the federal
government, was an opinion expressed in a
poll of married vets attending Notre Dame.
The poll was made by John C. Taylor as
his thesis for a bachelor’s degree in sociology.
Taylor was totally blinded by a shell on
Guadalcanal. He completed his education
with the aid of his wife who lives with him
and their child in Vetville, Notre Dame’s
housing project for married veterans.
Eighty-six per cent of vets polled favored
government aid to married college students
of the future, and of this group 93 per cent
wanted the aid to be in the nature of a loan
rather than an outright grant. Of those
favoring aid, 74 per cent thought that it
might be financed by taxing landlords who
refused to rent to families with children.
Other suggestions included a tax on child-
less families and a bachelor’s tax.
The group polled included only married
vets who were single when first they en-
rolled in college. They indicated that mar-
riage had a definite beneficial influence on
their scholastic work. Eighty-six per cent
said that they have been receiving higher
grades since assuming family responsibilities.
The vets urged that colleges and univer-
sities avoid returning to a prevalent pre-
war policy of forbidding the marriage of
undergraduates.
Vol. 1
^o. 2
21
By BEBNARD A. CRIMMINS
the
JT’S here! “It” being that certain time of
the year when halfbacks run wild, tackles
commit mayhem, and thousands of specta-
tors try to figure out who has the football
and why. Monday morning quarterbacks are
more numerous than bargains in Wool-
worth’s basement, and the major topic of
discussion usually centers around “the sys-
tem”—whether it be a streamlined T-forma-
tion, single wing, Notre Dame box, or
merely Pipestone Hi’s latest innovations.
Notre Dame will again use the T-forma-
tion for the sixth consecutive year.
The “T” actually is supposed to have be-
gun some 40-odd seasons ago, but it wasn’t
fully recognized until Clark Shaughnessy
and a few other notables introduced its in-
tricacies. to touchdown-hungry fans in the
late 1930’s.
Frank Leahy, head coach at Notre Dame,
installed the “T” for the Fighting Irish in
’42, after holding to the old Notre Dame
shift in 1941—his first year as mentor here.
As far as the alumni were concerned—and
alumni are ordinarily concerned—the change
from the Notre Dame box to a flash-in-the-
pan fancy “T” was nothing less than out-
right heresy. However, as scores were racked
up opinion was altered somewhat, and soon
even the most skeptical were forced to admit
that the “T” did have possibilities.
There are three excellent reasons why
Notre Dame uses the T-formation—namely,
National Championships were awarded to
the Irish in 1943, 1946 and 1947.
Let’s analyze the advantages of the “T”
and also learn how it’s different from other
styles of play. For instance, the quarterback
handles the ball on every run and pass, be-
sides being a field general—in other words
he’s what you might call a “key man.” The
offensive center has his head up, in the
“T”, and is classed as a “main blocker”—
in the Notre Dame box he was considered
a “half blocker.” It’s obvious that he can
move faster and more surely when he can
see which direction he’s going in.
Formerly, in the box, guards would give
the tipoff on plays by leading interference
to the right or left, whichever the case
might be; in the “T,” guards seldom are
called upon to pull out of the line to clear
a path for the ball carrier. Backs are much
closer to the line of scrimmage, since the
halfbacks are not more than 3^2 yards from
the line in comparison to 5 or 6 yards in
the Notre Dame system. This factor is also
pertinent as far as tip-offs are concerned,
and enables plays to strike more swiftly.
There is nothing in the single wing which
can compare with the quick opening plays
of the “T.”
One of the greatest advantages of the T-
formation is its display of legerdemain—or
to be slightly explicit, its powerhouse decep-
tion. The quarterback hides the ball behind
one or more linemen, and causes defensive
players to say words that shouldn’t be said
—even by football players. There is a maxi-
mum number of formations possible with
the “T.” Backs may be in motion, or go out
as a flanker—or maybe both. The Chicago
Bears usually mystify 40 million people
every fall by announcing that they will em-
ploy 200 plays during the season. In all
probability they have about 20 basic plays
with 10 or so variations from each.
When using the “T,” backfield men stay
close to the line; and therefore tackles and
guards don’t have to keep holes open more
than a split second or two. The fake is high-
ly important in the T-formation; often the
quarterback will supposedly hand the ball
to one halfback, but in reality the other
half will actually get the pigskin after these
phony moves have confused the defense and
drawn them out of position.
Since the backs pass the line of scrimmage
frequently, there are more long runs in the
modified “T” than in either the single wing
or box. Strangely enough the “T” could
even be called democratic—all backs ordi-
narily get a chance to carry the ball. For
example, in last year’s Southern California
game, Sitko scored from 76 yards out, Liv-
ingstone tallied on a 92-yard run, and Panelli
crashed through for a six-pointer from close
to the goal stripes.
As long as the T-formation continues to
help Notre Dame win National Champion-
ships, Irish fans will no doubt be seeing a
lot of these deceptive maneuvers.
The plays shown are diagrammed to give
you a more clearly defined idea of basic
“T” plays.
1	is a quick opening play. The quarter-
back feeds the ball to the right half, then
fakes a lateral to the left half. Livingstone
scored against U.S.C. on this play in 1947.*
2	features the fullback on an off-tackle
smash. The quarterback feeds the ball to
the fullback, who goes off the defensive
tackle. The left half is in motion. Right
half blocks the defensive left end. Last
year, Panelli scored from the 6-yard line in
the U.S.C. game.
3	is a pass play. Lujack threw to Terry
Brennan for touchdowns in the Iowa game
of 1946, the Purdue and Navy games of ’47.
4	shows the halfback going off tackle. The
quarterback hands the ball to the left half,
who runs off tackle. Brennan and Living-
stone both scored against Army on this play
last season.
5	is an end run. The quarterback fakes to
the right half—takes two steps after the fake
and laterals to the left halfback, who runs
his right end. The fullback blocks the de-
fensive left end. This play enabled Coy
McGee to score against U.S.C. in 1946,
Emil Sitko to tally in the 3 46 Illinois game,
and Bill Gompers to register in the Iowa
game of 346.*
* 1 and 5 are used in a series.
22
Notre Dame
Vol. 1 • No. 2
23
Paper Preserves
STORED away in a closely guarded and
fire-proof room in the University Library
is the largest collection of Catholic Histori-
cal Manuscripts and Letters to be found in
Midwestern United States. If one were to
read all of the ecclesiastical papers and rec-
ords in the Notre Dame Archives, he would
have a complete history of Catholicism in
the Mississippi Valley and Great Lakes region
of our country. Here in the northwest corner
of the second floor of the library, Rev.
Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., University Ar-
chivist and head of the Department of His-
tory, and his student assistants labor at the
ceaseless task of reading, filing and catalogu-
ing the thousands of documents that have
been drifting to Notre Dame since its found-
ing.
The history of the Notre Dame Archives
began in 1929, when the late Rev. Charles
L. O’Donnell, G.S.C., then president of No-
tre Dame, called in one of the younger
priests in the community who had shown
ability as an organizer of facts, and instruct-
ed him to go to work in sorting and cata-
loguing a roomful of old letters and manu-
scripts. The young priest was Father Mc-
Avoy, who in 1929 was appointed the
University Archivist. The data which Father
McAvoy first began to sort came to Notre
Dame chiefly through the collecting efforts
of Professor James F. Edwards, former li-
brarian at Notre Dame. Professor Edwards
spent more than three decades of his life
gathering up every' Catholic document he
could find. He found most of his material in
the various diocesan offices throughout the
mid-west. At the time—the latter part of the
19th century—the diocesan authorities, not
realizing the historical value of the various
documents in their possesion, were thinking
of throwing most of them away. Had it not
been for the farsightedness of Professor Ed-
wards a great wealth of historical informa-
tion would have been thus destroyed. The
late professor, however, succeeded in bring-
ing most of these records and manuscripts
to Notre Dame. Besides the collections of
Professor Edwards, there were letters written
by Father Sorin and Father Badin whose
wide correspondence left a wealth of ar-
chive material behind them.
The task facing Father McAvoy in 1929
was a mammoth one. He spent two years
sorting the documents alone and finding
places for them in cardboard envelopes
which in turn w’ere filed in large steel cab-
inets. Here they are arranged according to
the locality from which they were received.
An index card is made on every document
containing a synopsis of the contents and
enough information on the card so that one
doing research work would know by check-
ing the card exactly what is contained in the
manuscript. Very often the letters and man-
uscripts were written in foreign languages;
these first had to be translated and then
catalogued. Work on a single document can
take place anywhere from 10 minutes to 10
days, the latter taking place when the docu-
ment is either mutilated or illegibly written.
Father McAvoy's own comment on the
work of an archivist is, “An archivist has no
choice, only to go through everything. Not
a single scrap or note can be missed—it may
contain knowledge of paramount importance
some day.”
Some facts brought to light through a
perusal of these long forgotten manuscripts
are sensational. However, more frequently
they are just interesting. Take for example
one manuscript which is a petition asking
Father McAvoy examining Papal Bull issued in 1821 by
Pope Pius Vil when he established Diocese of Cincinnati
the President of the U. S. to furnish the
territory of Michigan with a missionary to
live with the Indians. It was addressed to
John Quincy Adams, and bore the picture
signatures of more than a dozen Indian
braves.
Then there is another letter, the petition
of an old bishop asking to be relieved of his
duties. It was written in 1885 by John B.
Lamay, Bishop of the Santa Fe, New Mexi-
co, diocese for many years. In the letter in
which he tendered his resignation, the bish-
op told of his enfeebled condition and his
desire to pass on his duties to someone else.
The bishop was none other that Jeanne
Marie La Tour whom Willa Cather made
24
Notre Dame
live in her novel, “Death Comes to the
Archbishop.”
The oldest of the manuscripts at Father
McAvoy’s fingertips is a letter written in
1717 by a bishop to a priest in Louisiana
in answer to a request for a dispensation in a
marriage case. The bishop’s reply has sur-
vived the years and today rests in the Notre
Dame Archives.
The Archives can be divided into three
separate collections. They include the Cath-
olic Archives of America containing the
ecclesiastical records of various dioceses
throughout the United States; there is then
the University’s own archives containing
records and manuscripts referring to the his-
tory of Notre Dame. Finally there are the
personal papers of various personages who
have played an important role in the Cath-
olic history of the United States.
The ecclesiastical archives include records
from the dioceses of Louisville, Detroit, Vin-
cennes, Cincinnati, New Orleans, and Fort
Wayne. Among them is a Papal Bull insti-
tuting the diocese of Cincinnati. Looking
through these diocesan papers we may find
autographs of Saints, Popes, and Cardinals.
Perhaps the richest collection in the Ar-
chives is the diocese of New Orleans papers.
They include the personal papers of the fa-
mous Luis Y. Cardenas, first bishop of New
New Orleans, from 1793 to 1801.
Going through the University’s own per-
sonal archives we would find a certificate
stating that the Rev. Edward Sorin was
received into minor orders on the 17 th of
December, 1836. Also among the earlier
records of the school, there is a list of the
benefactors of Notre Dame, dated 1843.
Contributions ranged anywhere from four
cents to five dollars. However, a written rec-
ord including the name of the individual
contributing was kept of all contributions no
matter how small. There are minutes of the
meetings held by the various societies on the
campus dating back as far as 1851. Pro-
grams of graduation exercises, plays, and
concerts are also on file.
Among the personal papers held in the
Archives there are those of Charles W. Stod-
dard, Orestes Brownson, world famous
author, literary critic and convert, and of
his son, Henry F. Brownson, Laetare Medal
winner.
At present, there are over 400,000 differ-
ent manuscripts, letters and papers on file
in the Archives. Over 50,000 of them have
been catalogued in the past 17 years. There
still remains 350,000. Who knows the
bounds of historical knowledge yet to be
found in these manuscripts? It is sufficient
to say that there lies hidden among these
350,000 documents information of great im-
portance to future Catholic historians, which
in time will be brought to light by Father
McAvoy and his assistants in the Notre
Dame Archives.
Dr. Luckey Rides Again
Old cow hands got the surprise of their
lives when an N.D. prof beat them at their
own game. Here is how it happened: Dr.
T. C. Luckey, chief biochemist in the Lab-
oratories of Bacteriology at the University
of Notre Dame (LOBUND), was attending
a meeting of the National Poultry Associa-
tion in Denver, Colo., when he and fellow
scientists took an afternoon off to see a
rodeo at Double Bar 7 Ranch. A call went
out over the public address system asking
if anyone in the stands wanted to challenge
the field of experts from five surrounding
states in a calf roping contest. Dr. Luckey
jumped down from the stands, mounted a
horse, and roped a calf in 18 seconds to
emerge as champion. The answer: Dr.
Luckey grew up on a ranch in Wyoming.
The Mediaeval Institute
Continued from page 8
val research will be accepted, but there will
be nothing to prevent those students from
preparing themselves for the M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees in the Graduate School of the
University simultaneously with their train-
ing in The Mediaeval Institute. The time
required for a student to complete his course
of studies at the Institute and to qualify for
a diploma extends over five full academic
years.
Students admitted to the Institute receive
a broad training in the whole range of me-
diaeval studies; but each one is especially
trained in one or other branch, e.g. Theol-
ogy, Philosophy, Liturgy, Mediaeval Litera-
ture, etc. Having completed his training at
The Mediaeval Institute, the young scholar
is fitted to take his place in the world of
scholarship and to accept a position on the
staff of any university or institution of learn-
ing in the country.
The Mediaeval Institute thus aims not
only to become the center of mediaeval
scholarship in the United States, to which
men learned in the lore of the Middle Ages
may address themselves for information and
counsel, but also a center from which highly
trained scholars will go out to promote the
traditional Christian culture of the western
world in places where it is perhaps mis-
understood or at least not adequately ap-
preciated.
Scholarships must be established to enable
young persons who are adequately prepared
to undertake a course of studies at the In-
stitute, but who lack financial resources, to
take advantage of the opportunities offered
by The Mediaeval Institute. The best stu-
dents from Catholic and other colleges and
universities across the whole country would
be attracted by the prospect of pursuing
higher studies under the direction of the
staff of the Institute, were they justified in
hoping that it would prove financially pos-
sible. Moreover, through the establishment
of desirable scholarships, the Institute would
be in a position to make a careful selection
among candidates for admission to its
courses and to build up an “elite” of young
scholars devoted to the restoration of Chris-
tian culture in this country—scholars the
like of which could not be found anywhere
else in these United States.
Gurian Lectures in Germany
Support of Soviet Russia among the Ger-
man population in the Western Zone is al-
most completely non-existent, according to
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of Political
Science and Editor of the “Review of Poli-
tics,” who recently returned to the Univer-
sity after a six weeks trip to Germany.
“The tension in the current Berlin situa-
tion is spreading throughout Germany,” Dr.
Gurian observed. “Naturally, there are
groups in Germany who believe that a new
war will provide the opportunity for Ger-
many to regain some of her lost power and
prestige. Intelligent people of the nation,
however, realize that a conflict forced by
Soviet Russia would have as its first victims
Germany and Europe.”
Rabbi Plotkin Ordained
Rabbi Albert Plotkin, ’42, now of Temple
De Hirsch, Seattle, Wash., was ordained a
rabbi in May upon his graduation from the
Hebrew Union College, Cincinnati, with
magna cum laude honors after six years of
study there. He was awarded the master of
Hebrew letters degree and received the Leo
Simon Memorial Award for the highest
mark of his class on comprehensive exami-
nations. For the best essay on Jewish phil-
osophy he also received the Kaufman
Kohler Award. His thesis, “Comparative
Study of the Catholic and Jewish Tradi-
tions of Charity,” will be published.
Rabbi Plotkin, the first South Bend na-
tive to be ordained a rabbi, received his
A.B. from Notre Dame in 1942 with magna
cum laude honors.
Pilgrimage to Lourdes
Continued from page 18
dette entered a few years after the .appari-
tions is located. Here in the chapel, just
across the communion rail of a little side
altar, close enough that one could reach
over and touch it, is the glass coffin of Ber-
nadette. Inside this coffin her body, clothed
in the habit of her order, is exposed to view.
Bernadette was buried in the NOY, nothing
being done to preserve hei' body; and yet,
after 50 years in the grave, it was found
when she was taken up at the time of the
examination, which led eventually to her
canonization, that she was completly incor-
rupt. As one sees her in the glass casket
there, she looks as if she were asleep. You
could never think of her as dead. One of the
English-speaking nuns told us that, after
continued exposure to the light in the glass
casket, the skin of her hands and face be-
gan to darken slightly. They were sprayed
with wax. That is the sum total of the steps
taken to preserve her as she is.
From Nevers we returned to Paris for
more paper work to satisfy the touring reg-
ulations, and then went on to Belgium to
visit relatives. Because of delays in waiting
for steamer passage, we were in Belgium
until nearly Thanksgiving, and reached New
York barely in time for the December 7 th
Communion Breakfast of the New York No-
tre Dame Club.
Vol. 1 • Ao. 2	25
Our
Contributors
REV. GERALD B. PHELAN—Philosopher,
educator, author, director of The Me-
diaeval Institute. Studied at Catholic
University and St. Francis Xavier Uni-
versity. Ph.D. from University of Lou-
vain, Belgium, 1924, and LL.D, from
Duquesne University, 1938. Author of
several books and numerous articles in
philosophical and religious publications.
Born in Halifax, Nova Scotia. President
of Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval
Studies in Canada, 1939 to 1946.
JOHN R. KENNEDY—Member of Notre
Dame Junior Glass. Journalism major.
Will graduate in 1950. Lives in Chevy
Chase, Md.
RAYMOND J. DONOVAN—Assistant di-
rector, Notre Dame Department of
Public Information. Author of “Spring
Sports" in July issue of Notre Dame.
DAVID VAN WALLACE—Entered Notre
Dame in 1923. Suffered two broken
vertebrae in his neck diving into shal-
low water in summer of 1924. Although
he remained conscious, his body was
immediately paralyzed. Little hope was
held for his recovery. His home is in
Mt. Clemens, Mich. A familiar figure
at Notre Dame home football games,
Van Wallace is a constant source of
inspiration to all Notre Dame men.
JOSEPH A. DOYLE—Member of Notre
Dame Senior Class. Journalism major.
Editor-in-chief, Notre Dame Scholastic,
student news weekly. Former staff mem-
ber of The Dome, Notre Dame year-
book. Will graduate in 1949. Lives in
Stockton, HL
BERNARD A. CRIMMINS—Notre Dame
backfield coach. All-American guard on
Notre Dame football team, 1941. One
of few men in Notre Dame history to
receive three monograms at three posi-
tions : fullback, right halfback and
guard. Originally from Louisville, Ky.,
Crimmins graduated in 1942. He was
a Navy PT boat commander in World
War II. Received Silver Star for action
against Japanese barges.
Independent Colleges
No one planned a free enterprise system
for America. Free enterprise economics is
the natural consequence of free men trying
to make a living in a free'society; while the
privately financed, independent liberal arts
college is the finest example in the history of
mankind of free men, unhampered, seeking
truth.
Privately financed colleges cannot exist in
a society which fails to support private en-
terprise and I am personally of the opinion
that private enterprise will not long survive
in America if our privately financed colleges
disappear.
This is a matter on which I feel very
deeply. I have given nineteen years of my
life and much of my fortune in support of
it and I am ready to give the rest of my
life and what remains of my money to any
effort that will bring business and education
closer together in the common cause of free-
dom.—President Frank H. Sparks, Wabash
College, before the Indiana Society of
Chicago.
Cover Picture—Paul B. Miller of
South Bend photographed this unique
scene of Sacred Heart Church. Rev.
Edward Keller, C.S.C., assisted Mr.
Miller. The picture has been accepted
for exhibition at seven national and
international salons of photography.
Mr. Miller is a member of the South
Bend Camera Club, Royal Photogra-
phic Society of England, and Profes-
s i o n a 1 Photographers Association.
Father Keller kneels at the altar.
Reilly Lecturer in Chemistry
Dr. Karl F. Bonhoeffer, director of the
Institute of Chemistry at the University of
Berlin, has been named the first Reilly Lec-
turer in Chemistry at Notre Dame. The
Reilly Lectures in Chemistry were founded
by a benefaction from Peter G. Reilly, In-
dianapolis industralist, who is a member of
the Associate Board of Lay Trustees and the
Advisory Council for Science and Engineer-
ing at Notre Dame. Dr. Bonhoeffer is one
of the world’s foremost authorities on physi-
cal chemistry.
Dean Manion Speaks to Legal Group
Reemphasis on God and morality as the
basis of American law was urged by Dr.
Clarence E. Manion, Dean of the College of
Law, University of Notre Dame, in a recent
speech before the American Judicature So-
ciety of the American Bar Association.
Dean Manion stated bluntly that justice
“may no longer be definable in the vocabu-
lary of the average lawyer.” This is so, he
charged, because the administration of jus-
tice has been weakened by the ignoring, in
particular, of the moral law.
The American legal system can be im-
proved by correcting obvious and notorious
administrative abuses, he said. But what is
needed above all for “the genuine and sus-
tained health of American Jurisprudence,”
he declared, is “a sharp accentuation of the
positive.”
“We must shift our concern from the im-
provements of its methods to a propagation
of the principles that underlie American
law,” he continued. “A first approach to
such a program can be achieved by empha-
sizing the inextricable association of Law
and Morals in the United States. Our juris-
prudence is deeply rooted in religion. Its
current miscarriages both in principle and
practice are traceable in every instance to
a perverted modern determination to regard
our legal system as a strictly secular instru-
ment for the achievement of purely secular
ends.
“This explosive de-naturing of our essen-
tially religious legal system has frustrated
the traditional logic of its ancient processes
and subjected American law to the ridicule
of both ‘liberals’ and ‘conservatives.’ Ameri-
can law was designed to implement the Ten
Commandments by underscoring the respon-
sibility of the individual human conscience.
Such an implement cannot be tortured into
an effective tool for the accomplishment of
materialistic totalitarian purposes. It is true
that many American lawyers have honestly
missed or glossed over the religious impli-
cations of our legal and constitutional sys-
tem, but the resulting mistaken impression
is easily corrected.”
Dean Manion then pointed out that “at
every point in our civil and criminal juris-
prudence one finds unmistakable evidence
that religious faith and religious practices,
universally acknowledged for hundreds of
years before the American Revolution, con-
stitute the base and foundation of our
American legal system.”
The recent Supreme Court decision in the
McCollum case was characterized by Dean
Manion as meaning that from now on“God
and morality must be separated from the
affairs of state by an impenetrable wall of
separation.” This unprecedented decision
also at least inferentially, he added, “excises
the Declaration of Independence, and the
Constitution of practically every State of
the Union as trespassers upon its newly
created ‘Wall of Separation’.” The McCol-
lum decision likewise “dogmatizes the mod-
ern determination to secularize American
Law and Government,” he added.
“If we rule God and Morality out of our
Constitutional system,” he said, “the thing
that remains will neither produce justice nor
preserve freedom. It is possible to take the
oxygen out of a glass of water but what
remains will not quench your thirst, and in
like manner, a Godless system of American
Law and Government will not quench man’s
age-old thirst for true liberty.
“When God goes out of any system of
justice, a vacuum is created which sucks in
a tyrant to take God’s place. Without God
there is no logical way in which to justify
the existence of any inviolable personal right,
and when ‘rights’ are thus indefensible,
lawyers are at the same time outmoded.”
26
Fiotre Ifame
FOUR SCHOOLS INHERIT $40 MILLION
NEW YORK, Aug. 20 (AP) —
Four universities, Columbia, Yale,
Princeton and Harvard, will share •
an estimated $40,000,000 under terms
of-a will filed today.
The money was left to the insti-
tutions by Eugene Higgins, 89, an
1882 Columbia graduate. Higgins
died July 28.
The will specified that the uni-
versities- would receive an equal
share of the residue of the estate
estimated at $40,000,000, after nu-
merous smaller bequests to friends
and servants.
It required that each university’s
share be invested and that the in-
come then be used in any manner
for the advancement of education
and research except for building
construction or general university
expenses.
NEW UNIVERSITY
PRICE TAG HIGH
These two news stories—appearing three days apart—well emphasize two of
the most important and indisputable facts in the contemporary world of private
higher education:
1.	The magnitude of the financial challenge to American universi-
ties—especially those like Notre Dame and the four cited above,
which wish to accept fully their new and greater opportunities
for service, but which receive absolutely no public tax support.
2.	The fact that if people generally know that a university needs
money, that it is trustworthy in the handling of money and that
it deserves such assistance, sufficient money is likely to be forth-
coming.
Columbia, Harvard, Princeton and Yale have made great contributions—and
they have seen to it that those contributions have been well publicized.
Result: They now have an average endowment of about $115,000,000 each.
Notre Dame has made great contributions, too—but the real Notre Dame,
the Notre Dame on the other side of the football stadium, has not been so well
publicized.
Result: Notre Dame's endowment is a bare $4,000,000. Her total net revenue
from football is less than she spends, every year, in financial assistance to students.
Notre Dame's contributions have not been widely or expensively publicized
because it has always been her policy, and still is, to devote all her resources
to the intellectual and spiritual education of young men—not to gather mere
financial "wealth" by increasing tuition and fees or reducing expenditures for
expansion of educational facilities—which would have reduced the number of
her students and then given that reduced number less for their money. Not until
now—with growing enrollment, rising costs and greater opportunities—has Notre
Dame been forced to enhance her financial assets. And still for the same pur-
pose: to assure all her students the same high educational value which formerly
was available to fewer boys at lower cost.
It is our hope to make known to all—as well known as our football teams—
our growing opportunities for training young men in moral, responsible leader-
ship—as well as The University's countless miscellany of other valuable contri-
butions to the nation and the world.
We realize that too few people are aware, for instance, that it was HERE, at
Notre Dame, that the components of neoprene synthetic rubber were actually
DISCOVERED . . . that modern aeronautical science was actually FOUNDED . . .
that experiments in anti-malarial drugs promise relief to 300 million victims a
year ... that studies in germ-free life are yielding telling implications for biology
and cancer research . . . that some of the nation's finest work in electronics and
fluid mechanics is being done . . . that metallurgy is being kept apace of super-
sonic aviation ... that the unprecedented Mediaeval Institute is making a scholarly
effort to recapture the whole of our Christian tradition and to adapt its essences
to today's major problems . . . etc.
Beyond that, we can only have faith that if people generally know that finan-
cial assistance will enable this University to realize truly great and important
opportunities, that this University is trustworthy in the handling of money, and
that this University is truly deserving of such assistance, sufficient money is likely
to be forthcoming.
WASHINGTON, Aug. 23 (AP)—
What would it cost to start a mod-
erately large university from
scratch? About $30,000,000.
This example concerns a moder-
ately large school of about 5,000.
But why $30,000,000 for an ade-
quate university? The office of edu-
cation offers some figures on the
matter. It finds that the 85 Ameri-
can schools in the “moderately
large” group (3,000 to 8,000 students
full time) have an average floor
space of about 130 square feet for
each student.
But that isn’t nearly enough, the
office of education says. Professors
are using make-shift cubbyholes
for offices, classrooms are crowded
to the doors. The colleges them-
selves are shooting for about 185
square feet per student by 1950.
If that 185 square feet is accepted
as adequate, then 5,000 students
would need 925,000 square feet.
Government engineers say it would
take about $16,650,000 to provide it
at today’s costs.
At least half the students prob-
ably would want to be housed in
college dormitories. Allowing 100
square feet of living space for each
student, as suggested by the office
of education, the bill goes up an-
other $4,000,000.
Federal education officials esti-
mate that land, equipment and
other beginning essentials would
add an extra $6,883,000 to the total.
Those items would come to about
one-fourth of the overall figure.
There you have $27,533,000, just
for the physical plant to start a
university.
Roughly, $2,500,000 is allowed for
all other initial expenses, including
promotion and scouting for teach-
ers. (There’d probably have to be
some “raiding” among established
schools and industrial laboratories.)
Now the new university could
open its doors. IF IT COULD MEET
OPERATING EXPENSES OF
PERHAPS $7,500,000 A YEAR, IT
COULD KEEP THEM OPEN.