cnne


NOTRE DAME FOOTBALL SCHEDULE
September
October
October
October
October
November
November
November
November
December
22
6
13
20
27
3
10
17
24
1
Southern Methodist at Dallas (Night)
Indiana at Notre Dame
Purdue at Notre Dame
Michigan State at Notre Dame
Oklahoma at Notre Dame
Navy at Baltimore
Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh
North Carolina at Notre Dame
iowa at Iowa City
Southern California at Los Angeles
Notre Dame’s football destiny is directed principally by the above six men
who form one of the greatest “teams” in intercollegiate athletics. They are:
Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C., Chairman, Faculty Board in Control of Ath-
letics; Terry Brennan, Head Coach of Football; Edward W. Krause, Director
of Athletics; Herbert E. Jones, Business Manager of Athletics; Robert Cahill,
Ticket Manager; and Charles M. Callahan, Sports Publicity Director.
2 Notre Dame’s $4,000,000
Expansion Project
4	President’s Page
5	It Runs in the Family
6	The Joseph P. Kennedy
Lord Beaverbrook Professorship
7	“Living” Chairs
8	Music Education—A New Program
Brad Brooks
10 The Chrysler Styling Studio
12 Treasure Hunt
Rev. Anthony J. Lauck, C.S.C.
14 With An Eye on November
18	Natural Law Forum
David J. Davin
19	Toledo Alumni Contribute
Instructorship
)
FALL •	1956
KEENAN HALL
Notre Dame's
*4,000,000
Expansion
Mr. and Mrs. Janies F. Keenan provide new residence hall.
Project
Two Student Residences, Dining Hall
Scheduled for Completion in 1958
The Keenan Residence Hall will
be one of three new buildings to
be erected on the Notre Dame campus
as part of a $4,000,000 construction
program at the University. Named
in memory of their son, James
F. Keenan, Jr., who died in an accident
in 1941, the residence hall will be pro-
vided by Mr. and Mrs. James F.
Keenan of Fort Wayne, Indiana. Mr.
Keenan, who has been a hotel execu-
tive for many years, is president of
the Keenan Hotel Company in Fort
Wayne.
In acknowledging the Keenans’
generous benefaction, the Rev. Theo-
dore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., paid tribute
to their “keen insight into the needs
of private education” as well as to
their “truly remarkable charity and
generosity.” Father Hesburgh said
that Keenan Hall will help achieve
“the cherished tradition and goal of
Notre Dame to have all of its students
residing on campus.” He stated that
the new building will be a “living me-
morial” to James Keenan, Jr., and that
“his name will always be a part of
Notre Dame.”
A native of Scranton, Pa., Mr.
2
Notre Dame
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, ’37, Managing Editor.
Vol. 9, No. 3	Fall, 1956
James Keenan, Sr., attended the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame prior to starting
his business career. In association with
his father, he formerly operated Fort
Wayne’s Hotel Anthony, the Plankin-
ton Hotel in Milwaukee and the Julien
Hotel in Dubuque. Mr. and Mrs.
Keenan have a daughter, Mrs. Robert
Gentlivre of Fort Wayne, and four
grandchildren.
Designed to accommodate 300 stu-
dents, Keenan Hall is scheduled for
completion in 1958 along with another
residence hall and a dining hall.
The three buildings will be designed
by Ellerbe and Company of St. Paul,
Minnesota, and will be located on the
northeast section of the campus. The
dining hall will accommodate about
1,000 students while Keenan Hall and
the other residence building will house
a total of 600 students.
The new dining hall will be a one-
story structure and placed adjacent to
Juniper Road facing west. Opening
off the lobby will be six dining rooms
serving cafeteria style meals. It -will
be possible to convert four of these
rooms into one large space seating ap-
proximately a thousand persons. The
building will have a full basement with
a large storage and deep freeze area.
The entire dining hall is to be air
conditioned. The other student dining
hall will continue to serve about two-
thirds of the student body. It was
erected in 1927 and for a number of
years has prepared about 15,000 meals
per day.
Borrowed Funds Erect Two Halls
Keenan Hall will be Notre Dame’s
sixteenth student residence dorm. Al-
though it and the other new residence
hall will be administered separately,
the two buildings will be joined by a
central lobby and students living in
both structures will share the same
chapel.
Although most of the buildings
erected at Notre Dame recently have
been provided by generous alumni and
non-alumni friends, construction of one
residence hall and the new dining hall
will be through borrowed funds from
the University’s endowment, according
to Father Hesburgh. This method of
financing appeared necessary, he em-
phasized, if Notre Dame is to continue
its tradition of having all its under-
graduate students live on campus
“where they can share fully in the
University’s academic, spiritual and
social life.”
Contracts have been awarded on
the $4,000,000 construction program
and the buildings will be ready for
occupancy within eighteen months.
The Foundation Program
Notre Dame’s Long-Range Pro-
gram, begun in 1947, still includes
the following to be erected:
Library
Fieldhouse-Auditorium
Graduate Hall
Priests’ Residence
Administration Building
Maintenance Center
Since the beginning of the Notre
Dame Foundation, nine years ago,
and including Keenan Hall, the
other new residence hall and the
dining hall, a total of 13 structures
will have been completed by the
spring of 1958. Included are:
Morris Inn
Nieuwland Science Hall
O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal
and Fine Arts
Fisher Residence Hall
LaFortune Student Center
Pangbom Residence Hall
Hammes Shopping Center
Lewis Bus Shelter
Sculptor Studio
Lobund Germfree Laboratory
The new dining hall will accommodate 1,000 people.
Vol. 9 • No. 3
3
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh,
G.S.C., is Notre Dame’s six-
teenth president.
All of us need the virtue of vision
so that we may see and appreciate the
whole wide range of opportunities that
are especially open to us in America.
Vision shows us clearly that our deal-
ings are not merely with dollars and
cents, materials and services. Our basic
concern must be with people, human
beings, fellow Americans. People, old
and young, intelligent and stupid,
handsome and ugly, rich and poor,
good and bad—here our work begins
and ends, has merit or fault, profit or
loss.
In a sense, industry may be said to
begin in the damp depths of our
mines, on the green and golden plains
of our vast land, in the cool shadows
of our virgin forests, along our lush
river valleys, and across the snowy-
crests of our mountain ranges. But
this good earth and rich land yields
only the raw and unfashioned gifts of
nature—the basic minerals, foods and
fibers that are wondrously transformed
by man and his industry.
It is man who brings these many
gifts to light, who uses his mind and
hands, with consummate skill, to per-
fect and produce, to fashion and to
mold. And it is man who buys and
sells and uses these fashioned gifts of
God for the good life here on earth,
a figure of fife eternal. Without man,
this marvelous land of ours would be
undiscovered, undeveloped, and un-
used. And God Himself would be less
praised in the absence of our cheery
homes, filled with the noise and laugh-
ter of happy children.
It is important that we have this
vision of the way in which industry
has helped to make America a bright
and wholesome land where people are
prized as our greatest resource, the
inner strength of our nation. America
would be an empty, cheerless place
without our millions of happy, secure
people, bearing proudly the dignity and
likeness of sons of God.
At night, when we fly above this
vast land, we see on all sides, like so
many scintillating jewels in die dark-
ness, the many communities that make
up America—the twinkling lights of
tiny hamlets, the sparkling suburbs, the
colorful thoroughfares of our great
cities, the bursts of light from our great
industrial centers. We have a part in
all of this—in the warmth of good
families, in the fruitful production of
industry, in the order of good govern-
ment—in all the joy, and security,
and fulfillment of human life for all
in this great nation..
Of old, it was slaves that quarried
the rock, turned the mill, and erected
against a desert sky the empty hated
monuments to the few who selfishly
ruled, exploiting God’s gifts and God’s
people, so that a few might rustle in •
silk while millions shivered in rags.
Few, too, it was who lived in marble
palaces while millions grovelled in foul
hovels; few were sated with delicacies
while millions eked out an animal-like
existence in starvation and famine.
Such has not been and is not the
vision of those who preside in America.
Our greatest monument is our living
society of the free, the challenge of
equal opportunity, the aristocracy of
talent, and ability and hard work, not
of birth, or family, or race.
It is such a vision that has been
placed in our hearts by Almighty God,
so that we may be free and walk with
head held high. We need to have
vision to make America an ever
brighter beacon in a world still dark-
ened in too many places by inhuman
slavery and human oppression.
IT RUNS
IN THE
FAMILY
Massey Twins
Receive Top
Aeademie Honors
“T t runs in the family” may be an
I overworked phrase in some circles
but there aren’t many families who
can claim the same distinction as the
Massey twins—ranked	academically
first and second in this year’s senior
class at Notre Dame.
The valedictorian at commencement
exercises was James L. Massey, Ottawa,
Illinois, an engineering student with a
96.50% average for his four years of
college. Only a step behind his brother
in the class of ’56 was Gerald J. Massey
who achieved the second highest
average with a 96.02%.
Notre Dame’s objective of educating
the “whole man”—intellectually, spiri-
tually and physically—couldn’t be more
applicable than in the case history' of
Jim Massey. He not only received the
top mark in his class but it was earned
in a tough electrical engineering course.
During his last year at Notre Dame,
Jim served as chairman of the Senior
Glass Retreat and he also took an
active part in the Young Catholic Stu-
dents organization.
He was a star basketball player on
the Navy ROTG team and he partici-
pated in the engineers football league.
Jim Massey, like his brother Jerry, at-
tended St. Bede Academy, Peru, Illi-
nois, prior to enrolling at Notre Dame.
While in prep school, both boys were
outstanding students and both were
The Massey twins—James
(in uniform) and Gerald.
members of the academy football
squad.
Jim is one of the United States Ma-
rine Corps’ newest second lieutenants
having received his commission at the
University. He will be stationed at the
leathernecks’ Quantico base for the im-
mediate future at least. As an under-
graduate, he was a company com-
mander in the Naval ROTG unit and
also served as drillmaster of the unit’s
fine precision-trained drill team.
Recipient of three post-graduate
awards in nationwide competition, Ger-
ald Massey will use a Fulbright grant
to take advance studies for a doctorate
in philosophy at Belgium’s intemation-
ally-renowned University of Louvain.
Gerald was battalion commander in
the Navy unit and also president of
the Tri-Services Council representing
the Army, Navy and Air Force con-
tingents on the campus—totaling ap-
proximately 1400 students.
He and brother Jim followed along
similar paths in their four years at
Notre Dame. Jerry, too, received an
officer’s commission, was active in the
Young Catholic Students movement
and played basketball on the ROTC
squad. Other extracurricular pastimes
found him listed as a student senator,
member of the Arts and Letters Coun-
cil, vice-president of the Philosophy
Club and business manager of the
Military Ball.
Jerry was one of four graduating
seniors honored by the DOME, student
yearbook, for his “special contributions
to the University in academic, spiritual
and extracurricular activities.” Out of
the first eight decorations given at the
President’s Review to Navy ROTG stu-
dents, he and his brother Jim received
six of them.
The Massey twins’ impressive record,
academically and otherwise, highlights
the many achievements made by the
class of ’56 while at Notre Dame.
^ke. floA&pU P. Kennedy
Lord Beaverbrook Professorship
New Plan of Faculty Development
Hon. Joseph P.
Kennedy, former
ambassador to
Great Britain, has
established the
Lord Beaverbrook
Professorship, in
honor of England’s
famed statesman
and journalist, at
Notre Dame. The
five-year grant will
be used to aid the
University’s current
program of faculty
development and
the new professor-
ship will be held by
Dr. Matthew A. Fitzsimons, a member of the Committee on
International Relations and editor of the Review of Politics.
An outstanding Catholic layman and diplomat, Mr.
Kennedy has served as a member of Notre Dame’s Associate
Board of Lay Trustees, and, in 1953, he was awarded an
honorary degree from the University. Mr. Kennedy is one
of this country’s most prominent financiers. His diplomatic
duties as ambassador to the Court of St. James were during
the critical pre-World War II years of 1937 to 1940.
A long list of key posts has marked Mr. Kennedy’s
career from 1917 until the present time. After graduating
from Harvard in 1912, Mr. Kennedy served as a bank exam-
iner in Massachusetts and later became president of the
Columbia Trust Co. in Boston. He was assistant general
manager of the Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation’s Fore
River plant for two years. For a period of years, Mr. Ken-
nedy directed his ability to the fast growing movie industry,
serving as president and chairman of the Board of the Film
Booking Offices of America and Chairman of the Board
of Pathe Exchange, Inc. In 1934 Mr. Kennedy was ap-
pointed to the Securities and Exchange Commission and
later elected chairman of the group. He was responsible
for much of its organization and development.
Prior to assuming his ambassadorial assignment in Eng-
land, Mr. Kennedy was named chairman of the U.S. Mari-
time Commission. Including Notre Dame, he has received
honorary degrees
from ten univer-
sities and colleges.
Mr. Kennedy has
been honored with
numerous papal
decorations includ-
ing the Knight of
Malta, Grand
Knight of the Or-
der of Pius IX
and Knight of the
Equestrian Order
of the Holy Sepul-
chre. He married
the former Miss
Rose Fitzgerald
and they had nine
children.
Lord Beaverbrook
Recently, President Eisenhower appointed Mr. Ken-
nedy to the civilian committee of the Central Intelligence
Agency.
A close, personal friend of Mr. Kennedy’s, Lord Beaver-
brook has had a distinguished career in the governments of
both Canada and Great Britain. He is a prolific author as
well as being the publisher of London’s Evening Standard,
Daily Express and Sunday Express. In World War II,
Lord Beaverbrook held several top British government posts
including Minister of State, Minister of Supply and Minister
of Aircraft Production. During World War I he was in
charge of Canadian war records. Lord Beaverbrook has
written a number of books on the British Empire and he is
the recipient of honorary degrees from several univer-
sities.
Notre Dame’s current Faculty Development Program
was first begun in 1953 when corporations were invited to
underwrite the addition of forty-five renowned professors to
the teaching staff. Last year financial support of $411,326
in the form of gifts, research, fellowships and scholarships
was received from 354 corporations and foundations. The
Lord Beaverbrook Professorship, provided by Mr. Kennedy,
represents a tremendously important approach to a new
plan of stimulating individual as well as corporate assistance
for Notre Dame’s Faculty Development Program.
6
Notre Dame
“LIVING” CHAIRS
A Plan for the Current Advancement of
Faculty Development, Based on the Cor-
relation of Student Cost and Its Deficits.
•k ★	*	★	★
PREMISES: The Notre Dame student in 1956-57, like college and university students everywhere, will not pay
more than two-thirds of the cost of his education.
The University makes up the difference from endowment income, auxiliary enterprises, and gifts
from alumni, friends, and corporations.
The principal area of crisis is in faculty salaries, to meet the rising costs of living for deserving
faculty members on the one hand, and to meet the increasing competition of non-academic, and
other academic, economic attraction to Notre Dame teachers.
The “living” principle of giving—the annual gift of money to be used as income—has been most
effective in offsetting the difficulties of achieving adequate capital funds to provide this annual
income. Not only the tax structure of the present economy, but even its philosophy, has been
turning more and more toward the annual “living” gift.
PROBLEM: The University faculty salaries have been raised substantially in the recent several years, as
recognized and aided by the Ford Foundation grant. But, the University administration realizes
that the Notre Dame scale must rise still higher if Notre Dame is to hold and attract outstanding
teachers.
SUGGESTION: A “living’’ plan of annually subsidized faculty salaries, based on a one-third amount of the mean
salary within the rank of teaching selected.
This in brief assumes that the student pays two-thirds of the faculty salary bill, and is adequately
rewarded by the top quality of its teaching. The remaining third offers a direct benefit opportunity
to corporations and individuals to provide a continuing quality in teaching that has immediate
and long-range social benefits.
COSTS
INVOLVED:
Under the present (1956-57) projected salary means in the four levels of teaching at Notre Dame,
the following figures are evolved:
o o
Rank	Salary Mean Total	Student Pays	Gifts Required
Professor....................   $7200	$4800	$2400
Associate Professor ............ 6000	4000	2000
Assistant Professor............ 5050	3400	1650
Instructor ...................    4150	2800	1350
(Note: It is projected that within a ten-year period, these figures will rise sharply, perhaps even
double themselves in the upper ranks.)
INCENTIVE: Because the annual gift under this program, in its real effect, is the same as endowed income for
the creation of a “chair” in the traditional pattern, the University of Notre Dame Foundation
. offers to name each teacher-ship so subsidized for the corporation, individual or alumni club mak-
ing the gift, for the period during which the gift is in effect—one year, three years, ten years, or
permanently if endowed as indicated above, e.g.:
The John Doe Corporation Professorship of ----------------------------------------------------
The Notre Dame Club of Place Associate Professorship of --------------------------------------
The John and Mary Blank Assistant Professorship of ......................-
The John Q. Public Instructorship of----------------------------.-----------------------------
Note: The field of teaching can be indicated by the donor, if desired.
Note 2: The amount given will not be added to the salary of the teacher chosen to fill the designated
position, but will be a contribution to the total faculty salary budget of the University,
from which the total salaries of all faculty members will advance proportionately.
ACTION: If your corporation or alumni club, or if you as an individual, wish to adopt one of these “living”
teacher-ships, please write to the University of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Further desired details will be supplied.
BONUS: This program, in addition to safeguarding the social requirement of adequate teaching quality, and
’ aiding higher education in its production of leadership, offers the more direct benefit of publicity
and public relations through the naming of the project adopted, and the frequent identification
of the benefactor and this outstanding area of guarding our future.
Vol. 9 • No. 3
7
The Notre Dame Glee Club
BY BRAD BROOKS
Rev. Carl Hager, c.s.c., Supervises
Department Curriculum
The author is from Chestertown,
N.Y., and is majoring in Journalism
at Notre Dame. He will graduate with
the Class of 1957.

*i »
-
Notre dame will inaugurate a new
program in music education,
this year, to train teachers as well as
band and choral directors in Catholic
schools. Under the direction of the
Rev. Carl Hager, C.S.C., head of the
department, students in music at the
University will study courses to im-
prove the standards of those directly
concerned with the field of music edu-
cation.
As the “major domo” of this depart-
ment, Father Hager experiences the
usual number of academic headaches.
The scheduled events concerning vari-
ous groups under his direction have
become more complicated in recent
years. For example, a not too untypi-
cal day might find the band playing
in Dallas, the Glee Club singing in
Buffalo and the Moreau Choir appear-
ing on a Columbia Broadcasting Sys-
tem program.
It is important to Notre Dame, and
especially to Father Hager, that stu-
dents be encouraged to write musical
compositions and to produce musical
programs. Father Hager is not only
an administrator; he is a musician! The
Notre Dame priest plays the organ and
piano, formerly directed the Moreau
Choir and has composed for choir,
band and orchestra. He formerly was
a member of the English faculty at the
University. Father not only can play
a piano, he can also tune the instru-
ment. And, in his spare time, he built
a hi-fi amplifier.
Father Hager’s ideas about music
reflect his versatility. “We’re not aim-
ing at conservatory training,” he says.
“A liberal education can help a tal-
ented boy go further in music than
would ever be possible without it. Our
intention is to turn out men who will
bring to music as a profession the
conviction that there’s more to ‘making
music’ than technical virtuosity.”
The student at Notre Dame may
take a Bachelor of Music degree, a
four-year program, or the Bachelor of
Arts with a major in music which in-
cludes instrumental music, voice,
theory or liturgical music. In all of
these programs instruction is given in
history, philosophy, theology and other
liberal arts courses as well as funda-
mentals of chromatic harmony.
But the vast bulk of the department’s
energy goes into music as a part of
liberal education. Father Hager’s own
courses in 20th century music are
among the most popular on the cam-
pus, attracting more students from sci-
ence and commerce than from the
humanities. Many Notre Dame men,
majoring in accounting or biology, find
it enjoyable to take clarinet or bari-
tone private lessons.
Most of the difficult work lies outside
the classroom. Fortunately, Father
Hager has the cooperation of an able
&
8
Notre Dame
and loyal staff of teachers in carrying
out the many activities of the depart-
ment. Bandmaster Robert F. O’Brien
directs three groups: the Marching
Band, the Concert Band, and the Var-
sity Band. The Marching Band has
110 members and plays at all home,
and one or two away, football games.
As soon as the football season is over,
the Marching Band breaks up, and
tryouts are held for a fifty-six man
Concert Band. This band makes an
annual tour during the spring holiday.
The Varsity Band, composed of about
seventy-five men, plays at basketball
games and other functions.
Band activity brings a wry smile
from Professor Charles Biondo, whose
mission in life is to get more young-
sters to play string instruments. Very
active in Catholic music circles, Biondo
would like to see a renaissance of string
knowledge of music literature and his
fabulous memory of scores and orches-
trations is all the more remarkable be-
cause Mr. Mathes has been blind since
early childhood.
Rounding out the department are
Dr. Eugene Leahy, in musicology; Ce-
cil Birder, in voice instruction; and
Father William McAuliffe, in liturgical
music. Father McAuliffe also con-
ducts the nationally known Moreau
Seminary and student liturgical choirs.
During the summer session the mu-
sic education program flourishes among
religious who are studying for graduate
degrees at the University. Nuns sing-
ing an operatic aria, sawing away at
fiddles and puffing on French horns all
add to the gaiety of Father Hager’s
frantic life.
Not that it bothers him too much.
“I hope I can find the time to finish
my new suite for band,” he says, while
busily working out the details of this
year’s Mozart festival or checking with
Mr. O’Brien on plans for the concert
band’s Easter trip to Texas.
Professor Carl Mathes
A New Program
playing, which has fallen to new lows
in the U.S. While he likes a brass
player as well as the next man, and
uses them in his Notre Dame Sympho-
nette, a student orchestra of some forty
men, Biondo is happiest breaking in
new recruits on violin or viola.
The famous Notre Dame Glee Club
occupies most of the time of Professor
Daniel Pedtke, who also teaches organ
and theory. The forty man organiza-
tion sings in many parts of the country
during their annual concert tours.
One of the most interesting members
of the Notre Dame faculty is Carl
Mathes, who teaches piano. A vir-
tuoso performer, Mathes is also a dy-
namic teacher and a prolific com-
poser. Mr. Mathes studied at the
Royal Conservatory in Budapest,
where he became acquainted with such
famous musicians as Bela Bartok and
Eugene Ormandy. His encyclopedic
(top) Dr. Biondo’s string clinic,
(bottom) Father Hager lectures to
summer class on modern theory.
Virgil AL Exner, Director of Styling for the Chrysler Corp, and Notre Dame alumnus,
presents Si0,000 check to Father Hesburgh for the new studio.
The Chrysler
Styling Studio
A generous $10,000 gift from the
, Chrysler Corporation will estab-
lish a unique automotive styling studio
at the University of Notre Dame dur-
ing the 1956-57 schoolyear. L. L. Col-
bert, president, James C. Zeder, vice-
president in charge of engineering and
Virgil M. Exner, director of styling, all
of the Chrysler Corporation, were re-
sponsible for initiating the new pro-
gram after consultation with Frederick
S. Beckman, faculty member in the
University’s Department of Art.
Mr. Exner states that “good auto-
mobile stylists are not just ‘born or
found’—they have to be trained.” A
postwar design revolution has brought
a new type of executive to the fore-
front in the automobile industry'—the
stylist. This individual is no longer
one who merely paints fancy pictures
or draws complex-looking sketches.
10 Notre Dame
The successful, present-day stylist is
expected to be part engineer, part cost
specialist, part manufacturing expert
and part psychologist in determining
what motivates people to buy and what
styles will sell. Needless to mention he
also has to be creative and artistic.
Exner, an alumnus of Notre Dame
and a member of the University’s Ad-
visory Council of Liberal and Fine
Arts, collaborated with Professor Beck-
man in deciding on the educational
requirements, and equipment needed,
for the styling course. Beckman, who
will be in charge of the new program
at Notre Dame, spent a three months’
indoctrination period at the Chrysler
styling section in Detroit prior to the
campus studio being constructed.
Used exclusively as an automobile
styling laboratory’, the new studio at
Notre Dame identifies the University
as a leader in this specialized and
important field. Only in the past sev-
eral years has there been any real
effort by institutions of higher learning
to teach automobile styling.
Exner said of the proposed course:
“We at Chrysler have found that if
a man has a university degree he will,
in the long run, fill the requirements
much better than his counterpart from
a specialized art school.
"Notre Dame has one of the finest
university curriculums in the nation.
Supplementing this writh a realistic
automobile styling course will give
Notre Dame graduates the best possible
preparation for a satisfying and suc-
cessful career in automotive design.
“From our knowledge of what other
universities are doing to establish auto-
motive design courses, we know that
Notre Dame will be one of the first to
have a good program operating in the
autumn of 1956.”
Chrysler officials are, from left to right: James C. Zeder, Vice-President in Charge of Engineering; Virgil M. Exner, Director of Styling:
and L. L. Colbert, President of the Chrysler Corporation.

Vol. 9 • No. 3	11
This painting was given to the Notre Dame Art Gallery by Robert B. Mayer.
TREASURE HUNT
Art Department Invites Collectors
To Display Works at Notre Dame
BY REV. ANTHONY J. LAUCK, C.S.C.
The author is well-known as a
prominent sculptor and is a faculty
member of Notre Dame’s Fine Arts
Department. Father Lauck has re-
ceived many sculpturing awards and
recently he was given the coveted
George D. Widener Memorial Gold
Medal by the Pennsylvania Academy
of Fine Arts—symbolic of the year’s
most outstanding work of art by an
American sculptor.
Recently the Department of State
sent a Fine Arts exhibit to various
European countries. These paintings
and sculptures are owned by American
universities and colleges. The distin-
guished committee, headed by Charles
Parkhurst, Director of the Oberlin Col-
lege art collection, selected four paint- •
ings from the Notre Dame gallery, as
representative of the rich assemblage
of art from American colleges.
For some years now Notre Dame has
been increasing her collection of art
works in two and three dimensions, and
attempting to integrate the study, un-
derstanding and appreciation of fine
arts into the regular liberal arts courses.
From time to time a rotating exhibition
is brought in from various parts of the
country, and shown in the O’Shaugh-
nessy Galleries along with the perma-
nent works already donated. This year,
for instance, Paul Byrne the Curator
has assembled a group of paintings by
the well-known artist Darrel Austin,
who formerly studied in the Notre
Dame Art Department, and whose
work has been shown and purchased in
many parts of the country. In 1955 a
monumental assembly of prints by
Rouault was loaned to Notre Dame for
exhibition by a Chicago collector, Jo-
seph Shapiro. And one of the high-
lights of this past season at Notre Dame
was the exhibition of sculptures by Ivan
Mestrovic, the famous sculptor who re-
sides and teaches here. The Mestrovic
showing included more of his renowned
works than exhibited at any previous
time in this country.
Galleries Are Open Daily
Who sees these outstanding and valu-
able groups of art creation when they
are set up in the galleries? The gal-
leries are open daily and both students
and professors can often be found there
viewing the work. Many art admirers
from metropolitan areas near Notre
Dame pay frequent visits to the
gallery. But the primary function of it
is to furnish visual education, to func-
tion as one more form of cultural en-
richment for the minds of the Notre
Dame students. The language of art
must be contrasted from every other
form because it is visual—as music is
audible—whereas other forms may be
understood through verbal means. And
so the art form, the painting in oil, the
bronze statue, the terra cotta bowl,
must be seen to be fully known and
appreciated. And the Notre Dame gal-
lery tries to put before the eyes of as
many students as it can, as many fine
art forms as possible, for their visual
enjoyment and sympathetic apprecia-
tion.
From time to time special tours and
lectures are prepared for distinct groups
of students. One or several professors
will guide the boys through a collection
of fine works, explaining, inviting com-
ments, leading discussion. Notre Dame
hopes to be able in time to have in the
permanent collection at least one good
12
Notre Dame
Carvings by students in
example of art from every noteworthy
period. For instance the University re-
cently acquired a beautiful little bronze
figurine from the 5th Century (B.C.).
But there is nothing to represent the
fascinating Prehistoric Periods of Eur-
ope, not one good example of primitive
African sculpture, and nothing from
the Byzantine — the famous Christian
era which reflects so much of the strong
early religious spirit of Europe and the
East. Nothing so impresses the student
with the beauty of the early ages of art
as these originals, whose very patine
has a story from history to tell.
Lack of 19th Century Art
One day I asked Mr. Byrne just what
periods of art were not represented in
Notre Dame’s Gallery. “There are
many,” he answered. What Byrne most
regrets is the notable lack of any fine
19th Century French Impressionist
painting. “We have absolutely noth-
ing,” he said, “from that well-known
group of Cezanne, Renoir, Daumier,
Van Gogh, Gaughin, Degas, Monet or
Pissarro.” Other painters of whom
Byrne is especially fond are the Eng-
lishmen, Gainsborough and Turner,
and the Americans, Ryder, Homer,
Cassatt, Benton, and Shahn.
Every alumnus and friend of Notre
Dame knows that this University tries
to stress the Christian elements in edu-
cation. For that reason the great Chris-
tian periods of art should also be em-
phasized as an integral and revealing
part of Christian culture. Yet there
Father Lauck’s class.
isn’t a single outstanding object of dis-
tinctly Christian art from the notable
periods: no shred or fragment of 3rd
Century Coptic textiles; no fine stone
or craftswork from the early Celtic
time; no tiniest ivory or bronze from
the Carolingian; no merest fragment of
mosaic or carving from the Byzantine
era; nothing from the great sculpture
of the Romanesque; no bit of stained
glass from the brilliant Gothic glaziers.
A painting by Constable, donated by Mr. and Mrs. Leo Sugar, Akron, O.,
is one of the Art Gallery’s finest works.
All these periods of great art were dis-
tinctly Christian and religions in char-
acter and the University’s gallery could
be enriched with additions from these
eras.
It is not enough that Notre Dame
acquire authentic, genuine examples of
art. There should also be quality.
Sometimes when an artist is told, “This
is an original Romanesque capitol. Ex-
perts and historians have authenticated
it,” his secret reaction is, “It is such an
ugly example, it should have been de-
stroyed half-a-thousand years ago!”.
Notre Dame wants not only to en-
lighten her students upon the identity
and nature of an artistic period but
there must also be pointed out wherein
lies its beauty. Beauty is the goal and
aim of art. What makes for beauty is
the subject of the study of art.
Collectors Display Paintings, Sculpture
The Art Gallery and the Depart-
ment of Art at the University invite
you to join in our quest for beauty.
Many alumni and friends have become
enthusiasts for painting or sculpture or
interior design or perhaps pottery, and
frequent the galleries and museums of
art. Some collect rare items of art or
decoration. Some have become con-
noisseurs and experts on specific paint-
ers or periods in art. Notre Dame wel-
comes the opportunity of sharing your
rich experiences with others, of dis-
playing your treasures in her Galleries.
Vol. 9 • No. 3
13


Go»vel

Fiery platform oratory, backroom
caucuses and colorful parade demon-
strations were part and parcel of the
student Mock Democratic National
Convention held in the Navy drill hall
on the Notre Dame campus. Cam-
paign strategy and party rallies served
as a “backdrop” for the convention
which was modeled after the “real Mc-
Coy” held in Chicago this summer.
More than two thousand delegates
and alternates representing states and
territories were chosen from among the
student body and St. Mary’s College.
After chaos had almost succeeded in
“taking over”, Adlai Stevenson was
unanimously acclaimed presidential
candidate on the fifth ballot in a final
torrential flurry of state flags, banners
and presidential posters. His running
mate as vice-presidential nominee was
U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy of
Massachusetts.
National Democratic Chairman
Paul M. Butler, N.D.
alumnus, speaks to the “delegates.
*
Highlighting the convention were speeches by Democratic National
Chairman Paul M. Butler, a Notre Dame alumnus in the Class of 1927,
ABC news commentator Paul Harvey of Chicago, Ill., and Rev. Theodore
M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president. Other talks were delivered by
Mayor Edward F. Voorde of South Bend, and several student represen-
tatives.
Roll call superlatives in describing presidential candidates were a dime
a dozen. During the four-day meeting names that were tossed in the political
ring for the Democratic presidential nomination included, besides Steven-
son: Sen. Lyndon Johnson of Texas, Estes Kefauver, Governor Frank
Lausche of Ohio, Sen. Russell of Georgia, former president Harry S. Tru-
man, Gov. George Leader of Pennsylvania, Sen. Mike Mansfield, Gov. Wil-
liams of Michigan, Stuart Symington, Sen. Humphrey and Gov. Harriman.
The Academy of Political Science, a student group, has been the sponsor-
ing body for Notre Dame’s mock conventions since the first one was held in
1940. Mock conventions, alternating between the two major parties, are
staged every four years. President Eisenhower was the students’ choice
as Republican nominee in 1952.
The convention helps to stimulate an active interest among the students
on party principles, national political names and the way in which a real
national convention is organized.

Ford Grant Will be Used
For Faculty Development
Ford Foundation grants totalling
$1,525,000 have been received by Notre
Dame and will be devoted entirely to
faculty development. An endowment
grant of $975,000 and an accomplish-
ment grant of $550,000 represent the
first installment of a $2,630,300 bene-
faction, the remainder of which the
university is to be given bv July 1.
1957.	'
Under provisions specified by the
Foundation, the larger grant of
$975,000 must be held as endowment
by Notre Dame until July 1, 1966.
with its income to be used “only to
increase faculty salaries.” The ac-
complishment grant of $550,000 was
awarded to Notre Dame and other
selected institutions “which have
shown special leadership within their
own regions in improving the status
and compensation of college teachers.”
Although Notre Dame will be free
to assign the $550,000 grant to meet
“pressing academic needs” other than
faculty development, it has been dis-
closed that this grant also will be re-
tained as endowment with the income
to be used in future years to raise
faculty salaries.
H.	Rowan Gaither, Jr., Chairman
of the Board of the Ford Foundation,
stated, “By this action the Ford Foun-
dation reaffirms its conviction that the
future of our entire society rests upon
the quality of American education. It
is hoped that the grants will be inter-
preted as a challenge by the thousands
of alumni, friends and institutions
whose support is vital to private edu-
cation and to our society. These grants
are an approach to, not a solution of,
the problem.”
Pangborn Honored
By Catholic U.
Thomas W. Pangborn, Hagerstown,
Md., industrialist who, with his
brother John G., provided the Pang-
bom Residence Hall on the Notre
Dame campus, has recently received
an honorary doctor of science degree
from Catholic University of America
at that institution’s 67th commence-
ment exercises. Archbishop Patrick A.
O’Boyle, of Washington, presented the
citation to Mr. Pangborn. It read in
part: “. . . honoring Thomas W. Pang-
bom, a man universally admired for
his sense of responsibility to society and
above all for his truly princely muni-
ficence in the fields of charity and
education . . .”
Admissions Bulletin
All applicants for admission to
the University for September 1957
are required to take the College
Entrance Examination Board Tests
as follows:
I.	Morning session (scholastic
aptitude) on Jan. 12, 1957
and IL Afternoon session on March
16, 1957:
Arts & Letters-English, Inter-
mediate Mathematics, and
Foreign Language.
Commerce - English, Inter-
mediate Mathematics, and
Social Studies.
Engineering - English, In-
termediate or Advanced
Mathematics, and Physics.
Science - English, Interme-
diate or Advanced Mathe-
matics, and Chemistry or
Physics.
For Information regarding these
o o
tests write to:
College Entrance Examination
Board
Box 592, Princeton, New Jersey
Unless the student lives in Arizona,
California, Colorado, Idaho, Mon-
tana, Nevada, New Mexico, Oregon,
Utah, Washington, Wyoming, Alas-
ka, or Hawaii, in which case infor-
mation is obtained from:
College Entrance Examination
Board
Box 27896
Los Angeles 27, California
Candidates are urged to apply
very early (in Novembei' for the
January test and in January for the
March test) as there will be a penal-
ty fee for those not completely
registered for the January tests by
December 15, and for the March
test by February’ 23.
If through sickness oi' other mis-
fortune the student misses the
January test he must take the test
on February’ 16, 1957.
The results of these tests will be
one of the factors on which admis-
sion to the University will be based.
(Rev.) Richard D. Murphy, C.S.G.
Director of Admissions
University of Notre Dame
Vol. 9 • No. 3
17
Another “first" at Notre Dame
has made its appearance in 1956
—the publication of the Natural Law
Forum, an annual that continues the
work of the Natural Law Institute and
is part of Notre Dame’s effort to further
scholarly studies of Natural Law.
The Forum is so called because it is
open to articles from scholars every-
where, regardless of their philosophy
and attitudes towards Natural Law.
It will have a shared interest in Natural
Law among contributors. Even though
these contributors are not all Catholic,
the Forum will aim to point out the
Catholic view of the law.
The Forum will be the first of its
kind published in English. Other law
reviews are published each year in Ger-
man, Italian, French, and Spanish. But
the Forum will be the only law review
devoted entirely to Natural Law and the
philosophy of law.
Dr. Antonio de Luna, professor of
International Law at the University of
Madrid and a Distinguished Professor
at Notre Dame, is Acting Editor of the
publication.
A staff of editors has also been ap-
pointed, who have esteemed names in
the legal profession. They are: Prof.
A.-H. Chroust, Notre Dame; Mr.
George Constable, Baltimore lawyer;
Prof. Vernon Bourke, St. Louis Uni-
versity; Prof. Lon L. Fuller, Harvard
University; Prof. F. G. S. Northrop,
Yale University; Prof. H. A. Rommen,
Georgetown University; Prof. Leo
Strauss, University of Chicago; Prof.
William J. Curran, Boston College;
HlotuJial
.Hau
tyosuun
BY DAVID J. DAVIN
Mr. Davin majored in Journalism
and graduated from Notre Dame in
June. His home is in Rochester, N. Y.
Prof. Myres S. McDougal, Yale Uni-
versity; and Prof. Passerin d’Entreves,
Oxford University, England.
The Natural Law, although unique,
permanent and universal, has often
been interpreted in various ways, not
always correctly. The Forum will carry
the Christian meaning and aim at a
presentation of truth about Natural
Law.
It is reasonable to assume that Notre
Dame will become a center of research
for Natural Law, with additional and
special library facilities for work on
theses for doctorates.
Prof. Luna has a thorough under-
standing and appreciation of law, espe-
cially the Natural Law. He undertook
formal law studies at the Faculty of
Law at the University of Granada.
After that he did graduate work for
his doctorate at the University of Bo-
logna (Italy) until 1925. He then be-
gan Natural Law studies at the Univer-
sity of Freiburg in Germany. He next
studied international law at the Uni-
versity of Paris and returned to Gra-
nada as an assistant professor of Nat-
ural Law.
There has been a tie-up between
Natural Law studies and work in in-
ternational law throughout Prof.
Lima’s fife. He explains it simply—
Natural Law is the only existing stand-
ard we have in deciding cases of inter-
national law. National laws vary be-
tween countries, just like states and
their “blue laws.” However, Natural
Law is constant.
In 1931 he was the technical secre-
Professor de Luna
tary in the drafting of the Spanish Re-
publican Constitution. But the Repub-
licans ousted him from his teaching
position at the beginning of the Civil
War because of his affiliation with the
Church.
After Franco’s climb to power, Prof.
Luna returned to teaching duties at the
University of Madrid. He taught there
until coming to Notre Dame last year.
Law School at N.D. Began in 1869
At the present time Prof. Luna is in
Spain but he plans to come back to
Notre Dame in the near future. He
and Senora Luna are parents of eight
children. Two of their sons are in
seminaries—one a Jesuit and the other
a Marianist.
He wants to continue work on the
Forum at Notre Dame and do more
research and writing.
Notre Dame has offered law courses
since 1869 and has two other “firsts”
in its eighty-six year history: It was
the first Catholic law school in this
country and the original Natural Law
Institute was the first endeavor of its
kind. It began in 1947 and convened
for two days each December for the
next four years as a result of the success
of the first session. During the sessions,
the lecturers discussed things like the
purpose and nature of law, the essence
of Natural Law, traced law from the
time of Aristotle to the present and
investigated the various interpretations.
18 Notre Dame
I »
Richard D. Donoghue, Toledo Club president (center) and past president William O. Mur-
tagh discuss the “new plan” with Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Foundation director.
The Notre Dame Alumni Club of
Toledo will underwrite an instruc-
torship in the Department of English,
during the 1956-57 academic year, as a
result of the Club’s recent $1,500 con-
tribution to the University. The Facul-
ty Development Program, initiated by
Father Hesburgh, is designed to not
only attract new, outstanding professors
to the teaching staff but also to provide
the means for increasing salaries of
present faculty members.
Dr. Elias Schwartz, faculty member
and holder of degrees from New York
U., Chicago and Stanford, has been
designated as recipient of the Toledo
instructorship.
Detailed information on “Living
Chairs,” a plan for the current ad-
vancement of Faculty Development,
may be found in this issue on page 7.
The contributions from Mr. Joseph P.
Kennedy (see page 6) and the Toledo
alumni group are the forerunners of
restricted gifts for this special purpose.
Consisting of 200 members the Notre
o
Dame Alumni Club of Toledo is an
active organization, sponsoring a year-
around program of diversified events.
In addition to the city of Toledo, its
membership area embraces nearby
towns in northwestern Ohio and south-
western Michigan.
Highlighted by an annual Commun-
ion Breakfast, the calendar of activities
starts off in September with a
“Smoker” honoring those in the fresh-
man class and their fathers. It also
serves to welcome graduates of the
previous June into the Club. Football
season has always been an important
factor in the Club program. For ex-
ample, Toledo alumni, through a com-
bination of hard work, smart promotion
and astute sales efforts, have success-
fully operated football excursions since
1951. Some of the trips have been to
the campus while others have gone to
Detroit and Cleveland when the Irish
were playing in those cities.
The Holiday Dance has been the
feature of the social season and is held
TOLEDO
ALUMNI CLUB
CONTRIBUTES
INSTRUCTORSHIP
New Plan of Giving for
Faculty Development
the week between Christmas and New
Year’s, in Toledo’s leading hotel, for
alumni, students and other friends of
Notre Dame in the area.
Other get-togethers include the an-
nual meeting in February, a three-day
mission which is held during Lent and
conducted by the Franciscan Fathers
and the observance of Universal Notre
Dame Night in late Spring or early
Summer.
Club activities are determined by a
seven-man Board of Directors and the
various officers. At the present time
the Directors consist of Urban H.
Gradel, Joseph R. Hillebrand, chair-
man, Richard J. Kopf, Francis E.
Malone, John J. Mullen, James J.
Murtagh and William O. Murtagh.
Officers for the 1956-57 term are:
Richard D. Donoghue, president; Paul
J. Dooley, vice-president; James F.
Garvin, secretary; and James J. Ma-
lone, treasurer. Jack Solon is Notre
Dame Foundation City Chairman in
Toledo.
In addition to the current $1,500
gift for an instructorship, the Club has
contributed consistently to the Univer-
sity in other years.
Vol. 9 • No. 3
19
-r, bd&ard' Tracey
200 Bradley Avenue.
State College, Pa*
Jr,,
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS