Notre Dame
Summer • 1955
2	Notre Dame’s Long-Range Program
4	The YPO
5	President’s Page
6	Chrysler’s Styling Chief,
N.D. Alumnus N’irgil Exner
8	American and Soviet Studies
Pat Brennan
10	Reading Clinic
12	The Library's New Look
John T. Mullin. Ill
16	Waterpower
David Davin
18	Germfree Developments
James E. Murphy
More than 1,000 students received degrees at Notre Danie's 110th annual commence-
ment on June 5. Attorney General Herbert Brownell, Jr., (top left) gave the com-
mencement address and Most Rev. John J. Wright, Bishop of Worcester, Mass., preached
the baccalaureate sermon. Presentation of the 1954 Laetare Medal to retired diplomat
Jefferson Caffery (center) was an added feature of this year’s commencement program.
Vol. 8 • No. 2
'raiffiBSS
s>
V.
WNDU-TV Station
miim iiimm irmiTT—r
LaFortune Student Center
Pangborn Residence Hall
Hammes Shopping Center
Notre Dame’s
Hammes Shopping Center


LaFortune Student
Anter
Lounge

Five campus buildings, shown on this
page, are under construction and all will
be completed during the Summer.
Since the beginning of the Notre Dame
Foundation in 1947 generous benefactors,
alumni and nen-alumni, have contributed
more than $8,000,000 to building expan-
sion including the following:
Morris Inn
Nieuwland Science Hall
O’Shaughnessy Hall of
Liberal and Fine Arts
Fisher Residence Hall
Lobund Germfree Laboratory
Lewis Bus Shelter
Fisher Residence Hall (4th Floor)	Pangborn Residence Hall
1957
■
HALL
Long Range Program
The buildings portrayed on this page are in the ‘urgently needed’
category to care adequately for the increased enrollment of 5,400
students at Notre Dame. Still remaining on the 10-year program,
announced in 1947, are the following:
Student Residence Halts—Minimum of two new buildings;
Dining Hall—Current dining facilities were built for 3,000;
Library—Need for substantially improved conditions;
Fieldhouse-Auditorium—Total seating capacity in present fieldhouse
is 4,200;
Maintenance Center—To effect greater efficiency and savings;
Graduate Hall—For increased enrollment in Graduate School;
Priests’ Residence—To accommodate Holy Cross Fathers;
Administration Building—Present main building erected in 1879.
■MMMi
the
California and
the Pacific Northwest.
(Left to right): James J. Fayette, ’42; Robert L. Hamilton, 34; National President
Chiles; Fr. Hesburgh, ’38; James Cleary, ’40; and (inset) William H. Coleman, ’40.


J

»
Young Presidents’ Organization
Includes 5 Notre Dame Alumni
It could happen only in America—
where a young man, named Ray T.
Hickok, president of the Hickok Manu-
facturing Go., in Rochester, N. Y., de-
veloped a powerful idea into an aggres-
sive organization of 800 men and wom-
en with membership strictly limited to
those who became president of their
own company before they reached the
age of 40! Known as the Young
Presidents’ Organization, one of its
newest members is Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.G., who was named to
guide the destinies of the University of
Notre Dame in 1952 when he was only
35 years old.
Four other Notre Dame alumni are
active participants in this unique
organization, including: Robert L.
Hamilton, president of the Dumore
Company, Racine, Wis., and a member
of Notre Dame’s Advisory Council of
the College of Commerce; William H.
Coleman, president of Aero Supply
Mfg. Co., Corry, Pa., who chairmanned
the 1955 national meeting and who is
heir-apparent to the Organization’s
presidency next year; James Cleary,
4 Notre Dame
Vol. 8, No. 2
president of Cleary-Shelvin Mfg. Co.,
Van Dyke, Mich.; and James J. Fay-
ette, president of the Vermont Fruit
& Grocery Co., Burlington, Vt.
Further eligibility to the YPO re-
quires that the applicant’s company be
either an industrial corporation with
annual sales of $1,000,000 or more,
or a non-industrial corporation with an
annual turnover of $2,000,000. Notre
Dame’s budget during the current fiscal
year is just short of $12,000,000.
The Young Presidents’ Organization
is youthful in ‘organizational age’ as
well as in individual membership and
this year is celebrating its fifth anniver-
sary. Ray Hickok was motivated by
a conviction that young men on the
top executive level of their firms should
become friends; face their futures to-
gether; share their business experiences;
and, while growing up and continuing
to learn, join in helping to maintain
and improve the free enterprise system.
It captured the public imagination
and Hickok’s ideas crystalized into
action which resulted in 24 chapters
being formed from New England to
For many members in YPO it is the
Horatio Alger ‘type’ of story. Many
of them founded their own companies
with personal savings or borrowed
money; others came up through the
ranks of established firms. Still others
were elected presidents of firms found-
ed by fathers or grandfathers.
Nearly every business type of activity
is represented in the Young Presidents’
Organization. Throughout the country
the 24 chapters hold a monthly seminar
on topics concerning management
while once each year the national meet-
ing on modem management methods
is also conducted in lieu of the usual
organization convention. Its national
headquarters is located in the Savoy
Plaza Hotel in New York City.
The Young Presidents’ Organization
will be a definite factor in the support
of this country’s success in business and
will contribute a substantial share
toward progress of the United States
this year and in the years to come.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, ’37, Managing Editor.
Summer, 1955
I wish that I could tell you that
Friday, last December 17, dawned
bright and clear at the University of
Notre Dame. On the contrary, it was
overcast and sleety, but the weather
did not matter that day. All our stu-
dents were happy to see the day come,
because it was the joyful day of going
home for the Christmas holidays. Of
all the boys at Notre Dame, young
Freddy Miller of Dillon Hall had
special reasons to be happy on that day
and other days. As the world judges
means of happiness in money, he had
plenty, for his father was a millionaire.
On a more personal scale, he had
ample reason, too: He was a hand-
some, personable lad, with a fine body
that made him a good athlete. His
mind was of equal measure. He was
an honor student with about a 95%
average in a difficult course. He had
a wonderful family and home: a suc-
cessful, likeable father, a charming and
vivacious mother, six sisters and a
brother. He had just about everything
a young man could desire, a host of
friends, Summer vacations in Europe,
a wonderful family and home.
So December 17 was the same as
every other day in his young life. I
suppose it was more hurried, since he
was rushing to get off on a hunting
trip to Canada with his father. But
the last thing he did before leaving
o	o
Notre Dame was to attend Mass and
receive Holy Communion in his hall
chapel. As he and some of his friends
were driving to Milwaukee, one of
them warned the boy driving to take it
easy as the road was becoming slippery.
“I’m not really worried,” said young
Fred, “after all, I’m in the state of
grace.” It was a way of saying that
with God within him, he was not afraid
of meeting God.
As the sun went down that day
Fred’s body was charred inside a
crashed and burning plane, but I’m
sure that his soul was glorious in the
sight of God, and that he really knew
then, as he certainly knows now, how
right he was on his values. His looks
and personality and brains and money
and sports car seem very unimportant
beside the fact that he began his last
day with God, lived it with God in the
state of grace, and ended it with God
to begin an eternity of sharing God’s
glorious happiness.
How did December 17 begin for
Fred Miller, Sr.? As was their custom,
he and his wife, Adele, were up before
dawn, driving down the treelined road
j	o
around Lake Oconomowoc to the
parish church in the town where they
attended the 6:30 Mass and both re-
ceived Holy Communion. Here was
an unusual man. Fred, Sr. was more
famous than his son at Notre Dame, an
All-American tackle and captain of
one of Knute Rockne’s last teams. He
was widely known as a sportsman, a
director of the Green Bay Packers, and
influential in bringing the Braves to
Milwaukee. He could still beat his
athletic son at handball, his daughters
at tennis, and enjoyed being a volun-
teer coach with Frank Leahy during
the ten years that Frank was coach at
President, University of Notre Dame
Notre Dame. He was a good busi-
ness man, too, having quadrupled his
business in the past six years and
having invested forty millions in a
new plant.
The story I like best about him was
the fact that he had adopted the habit
of making a retreat once a year to
check up on his spiritual life. This
year, he took a dozen men with him,
two of them being his pilots who were
making the first and last retreat of
their lives, the weekend before they
died, getting prepared with Fred to
meet God, although none of them
knew it at the time. Yes, this man
had a full life, but like his son, he
knew what really mattered. He began
his last day on earth by receiving Holy
Communion that morning.
There will be a final day to all of our
Eves. What will it be like? Largely,
I think, like the rest of our lives. Our
final day on earth will probably re-
flect the values we hold today, the
strength of our character today, the
closeness of our union with God today.
In reflecting these, our last day will
indicate to God and to ourselves the
kind of eternity that awaits us. That
is why I want to tell you about the
day that, unknown to them as they
began it, was the last day on earth for
these two Notre Dame men, Fred
Miller, Jr., and Fred Miller, Sr.
Vol. 8 • No. 2	5

•4
An internationally-recognized creator
of fashions in automobile styling was
a student of art and design at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame in the late
1920’s.
He is Virgil M. Exner, Sr., Director
of Styling for Chrysler’s billion-dollar
corporation, who not too many years
ago at the age of 16 bought a Model T
for $32 and started experimenting in
automobile design. This does not nec-
essarily guarantee that “hot-rodding”
is the shortest path to success in the
styling of attractive sports coupes or
convertibles. Actually Virgil Exner ar-
rived at the top of his profession fast,
but it was by way of General Motors,
Studebaker and as an illustrator of
car catalogs.
When the Chrysler Corporation de-
cided to scrap its old dies and come up
with a car as new as the atomic sub-
marine, President L. L. Colbert singled
out Exner, then in the advance styling
section, as the man for this assignment.
It was a wise move because Exner was
ready. He put his futuristic blueprints
to work with a staff of more than 200
stylists, designers, and clay modelers.
The result was some new and
startling approaches to present-day
automobile design. The K-310 sports
sedan, the C-200 sports convertible,
the D’Elegance two-passenger sports
coupe and the DeSoto Adventurer, all
products of his imaginative skill, have
won for him the admiration of auto-
mobile enthusiasts in the United States
and abroad. His work is reflected on
new models made in Plymouth, Dodge,
DeSoto and Chrysler plants.
“The distinctive features of practical
design in these cars have established
new styling standards for the entire in-
dustry,” praised James C. Zeder, Vice-
President of Engineering at Chrysler.
He noted that the K-310 touched off
a new styling trend and he pointed up
other Exner “firsts” such as the off-
center divided front seat arrangement







and the continental appearance of cut-
out fenders.
After studying in Notre Danie’s Fine
Arts Department, Mr. Exner’s first pro-
fessional job was with Advertising Ar-
tists, Inc., in South Bend. He stayed
there for six years designing car cata-
logs before moving on to GM in 1934.
In his initial year with General Motors
he won first prize in a styling contest
and soon was elevated to the head of
Pontiac Design Studio.
He joined the Studebaker Corpora-
tion in 1938, at the age of 29, as Chief
Styling Engineer. During World War
II he contributed an important part in
the development of Uncle Sam’s
Weasel Army truck and various types
of aircraft engines.
Mr. Exner was mainly responsible
for the first revolutionary change in the
present-day auto, when he modernized
the Studebaker with items that have
been accepted as standard: lots of glass
area, curved windshields, and wrap-
around rear windows. It was Exner
who fashioned a new and different
Studebaker—streamlined like a tor-
pedo.
Exner’s ideas have been favorably
received by the industry and customer
alike for their original and tasteful ap-
proach to the automobile safety and
comfort and roadworthiness desired by
the American motorist. He believes
that future cars will be much lower,
faster—and that there will be addi-
tional safety features and better high-
ways.
His hobbies, besides auto racing and
sports cars, are oil painting and foot-
ball. Not all of the plaudits in the
Exner family however, go to Virgil, Sr.
A young man by the name of Virgil
Exner, Jr., who is a senior at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, is close on the
heels of his illustrious father. At the
age of 13, Virgil, Jr., won the first na-
tional award given by the Fisher Body
Craftsman Guild in the National Auto-
mobile Design Contest—a $4,000 col-
lege scholarship.
The Exner family resides in Birm-
ingham, Michigan, and also includes
Mrs. Exner and two other children,
Bronwen and June Marie.
If the reader has gone this far it
should be evident that success in auto-
mobile styling is spelled with a capital
“E” and pronounced “Exner.” And
Notre Dame is proud of one of her
most prominent sons who is heralded
as a leader of modem design in the
automobile industry.
N.D. ALUMNUS—VIRGIL EXNER, SR.
Vol. 8* No. 2	7
~	\ Li'** V
Mr. Abell
Mr. Kennedy
New Program Highlights
Political Science Dept.
By Pat Brennan
The author is majoring in Journal-
ism and is a member of the Junior class.
THE welfare state and the admin-
istrative state are emerging in
America! Is this good or bad? How
close is the West to a cataclysmic war?
Did Malenkov’s fall mean the rise of
a truculent war party in Moscow?
What is the Communist “world view”
—how do the men in the Kremlin
“think?”
In order to attack such problems, the
University of Notre Dame Political
Science department has directed its at-
tention—on the graduate and research
level—toward two vital concepts of our
day: The so-called “American way”
and Soviet “Communism.”
Devoted to the former is the new
Program in American Studies, estab-
fished in 1954 as a joint project of
Notre Dame’s political science, history,
and English departments. It “repre-
sents the current trend in the univer-
sity world of getting away from the
highly specialized curriculum and pull-
ing together several studies.” It has as
its goal the training of students “who
can do for the United States what Ed-
mund Burke did for England”—“men
who know or can predict tolerably well
the effects of any given policy on the
basic structure of the American soci-
ety.” This is “not a policy making pro-
gram,” stressed the Rev. Stanley Parry,
C.S.C., head of the University’s polit-
ical science department, but an effort
“to turn out men who have compe-
tences necessary to make good policy
for the United States and academicians
who will continue the pedagogical
work.
“In modem society, crimes are so
frequent and they require such deep
changes in many aspects of our life
that unless we understand the Amer-
ican ethos (‘American way’) there is
danger that we will lose it unconscious-
ly. It will be the goal of our graduate
students, as citizens of the future, to
prevent this by suggestions and policy
making functions. There are four or
five policies you could study in a cer-
tain situation; one of these could be
disruptive, one or more could be con-
ducive to the American ethos. We
will educate Notre Dame men to pre-
serve and improve this ethos. If the
Christian intellectual does have the
knowledge to improve America, he has
a political and religious duty to do so.”
An objective of the American
Studies program, headed by Aaron
Abell—author and since 1945 associ-
ated with the university’s history de-
partment—is the establishment by the
spring of 1955 of a scholarship pro-
gram which would bring to Notre
Dame deserving young men interested
in making America a better place to
live in.
In an effort to penetrate the pall
cast over the free world by the Red
menace, the University of Notre Dame,
with the aid of a $57,000 Ford Founda-
tion grant, in 1953 set up its much-
publicized “Center for Soviet and East
European Studies” dedicated to re-
search and training in this area.
Sparked by the influence of the late
Waldemar Gurian of the University
faculty, a famed specialist in Bolshe-
8 Notre Dame
vist thought, and the Rockefeller Foun-
dation grant, “interest in Russia and
East Europe” has grown within Notre
Dame’s political science department
since 1948.
“The first thing necessary when
faced with a hostile and threatening
neighbor,” points out Father Parry, “is
to understand him, what his actual
condition is, what his motives are, and
how he thinks—and to understand him
not as a matter of idle speculation but
through a disciplined analysis of his
thought and action and motives as
they have appeared in the course of
his history. As it has appeared, per-
haps, in his treatment of the once free
states that surround his borders. It is
necessary in our society that we have
both business and government men
who can offer this knowledge to the
country as a whole. The purpose of
this Soviet Studies program, therefore,
is twofold: The extension of research
and the training of further experts.
“The object of the research is not a
quantitative addition to data on the
Soviets, but a meaningful synthesis of
available data. Notre Dame’s scholars
want to ‘add a new dimension’ to
these data by interpreting it in the light
of the Communist world view and
Marxist ideology.”
To do this they brought in Dr. John
Fizer, who holds a Ph.D. in Slavic
studies; Michael Pap, Ph.D., an expert
in domestic problems of Russia; and,
as head of the department, Stephen
Kertesz, who was Hungarian minister
to Italy until the Reds seized his home-
land after World War II.
With this outstanding personnel, No-
tre Dame “will train students in the
techniques and methods necessary to
continue this work in the academic
world.” Also, it will educate young
Christian intellectuals “in the skills and
knowledge necessary to continue in the
political order the on-going process of
policy formation and adjustment.”
The Soviet studies curriculum now
includes courses in Russian history, di-
alectical materialism, and atheistic
Communism and represents the uni-
fied efforts of prominent men in the
fields of religion, history, philosophy,
and political science. In 1955-56, the
political science department will bring
in an established specialist in scientific
socialism and Bolshevism to replace
Dr. Gurian.
The Soviet and American studies at
Notre Dame are illustrations of “idea
men” in action, men whose lives are
dedicated to the solution of internal
and external perils that each moment
threaten to destroy the foundations of
our democracy.
(continued on page 14)
Mr. Kertesz is head
of Notre Dame’s In-
ternational Relations
Committee.


Reading
Clinic
Scholastic Improvement
Through Special Means
-s’ ifeflCjaa
Readin’, ’ritin’, and ’rithmetic!
There are these three; and the most
engaging of these is readin’. Anyway
that’s the case on this campus accord-
ing to 400 students who every year
better their class work at the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame partly because they
have the intelligence and initiative to
recognize—and do something about—
their faulty reading habits. They go
for diagnosis to a specialist, “Dr.” R. D.
Willemin, the Head of Notre Dame’s
Developmental Reading Program. His
therapy demands real effort and a will-
ingness to dig hard for constant im-
provement, and when his patients co-
operate parents appreciate the scho-
lastic improvement that results. “Dr.”
Willemin has helped near-failing stu-
dents to remain in school and good
students to become outstanding.
But why this reading program?
Can’t students eligible for admission to
a world-famous university READ?
“Yes, they can. read,” said Willemin,
“but many come to Notre Dame with
outstanding potential that needs devel-
opment through special means. They
are hamstrung by a society that places
a premium on superficial, passive ac-
tivities such as too many radio and
television programs, and on other non-
academic activities outside the school
and home. Also there are countless
students with fine minds who come to
10 Moire Dame
the University unfortunately possessing
poor reading habits which date back
to those years when they were learning
to read and which have never been
remedied prior to entering college.
“The reading of these students is ‘pass-
able’ at the high school level,” contin-
ued Willemin, “but falls short of the
reading requirements of college
studies.”
Closely associated with poor reading
skill is inadequate vocabulary, lack of
phonetical skill (incorrect pronuncia-
tion), and improper study methods.
Referring to some typical traits, Wil-
lemin observed: “We get innumerable
students who read words for words’
sake. They plod, “plow under each
word,” pronounce each word silently;
are unable to pick out main ideas from
subordinate description and details;
have difficulty in defining simple, per-
haps unfamiliar, words as they are used
in context. They fail to preread by
first skimming over the material to be
read and to vary the reading rate ac-
cording to the nature of the material
and the purpose for reading it. These
and many other not so obvious reading
problems make reading a difficult, dis-
couraging and, sometimes, a fearful
chore for many students. In a few
cases, defective eyesight played an ob-
vious part in the reading experience
of the students. In the past two semes-
ters, for example, about twenty-five
students were found to be in need of
corrective glasses.
“We also attempt to develop in them
through this reading program increased
concentration,” emphasized Willemin.
“We teach them how to read class as-
signments with maximum effectiveness,
how to broaden their vocabulary, and
how to study well for examinations.
There is also a substantial increase in
both their rate of reading and compre-
hension. Specifically, the rise in read-
ing speed alone is from 270 to 450
words per minute for the group av-
erage in each semester.”
At the beginning of the program
two diagnostic reading tests are given
to each student to determine his speed
and comprehension. Similar tests are
then given throughout the course. Con-
ferences with individual students are
conducted throughout the semester by
Willemin and Mr. C. E. Birder, As-
sistant.
Developmental Reading originated
in the Department of Guidance and
Testing five years ago with a limited
class of two students. In 1953 the
program was established as a separate
department with Willemin in charge.
In the past year more than 400 Notre
Dame students participated in the pro-
gram, including many students of high
scholastic ability.

An ocular check is made on all Reading Course students.
Individual conference is conducted by Mr. Willemin.
Vol. 8 • No. 2 II
rrTV'W.
The Library's
Neu? Look
■'4»
nwnttnr:
M IMS DESK
ai
huportant Changes Instituted
By John T. Mullin III
The author is vice-president of the
student Press Club and a native of Bal-
timore, Md. Mr. Mullin is majoring in
Journalism in Notre Dame’s College of
Arts and Letters.
Air tubes speed call slips of desired
books to circulation department.
(Below): Miss Ida Bonicelli, head
of Circulation Dept., and Mr.
Schaefer, Library Director, inspect
new equipment.
A modem version of an old library
has provided many practical and re-
cent innovations for the building which
houses the major portion of Notre
Dame’s 450,000 volumes. This ivy-
clad structure, erected at the height of
World War I in 1917 for a student-
body of 1,200, is now required to ser-
vice a present-day enrollment of 5,400
undergraduate and graduate students.
To keep pace with the rapid physical
expansion program at the University
and also with the increased number of
students, the Library has instituted the
following important changes: a new
streamlined system for getting books
from stacks to the main desk; the estab-
lishment of three divisional libraries
within the main library; additional
seating facilities; increased book space;
and a new lighting system.
An efficient method using air tubes
has been installed which speeds call
slips of desired books from the circula-
tion department to the stacks in a
matter of seconds. Electrified lifts then
return the books to the main desk
before you can say William V. Shake-
speare. The supersonic age has really
arrived!
An outstanding innovation is the
“open shelf” idea for three divisional
libraries — Humanities, Business - Eco-
nomics, and Social Services. It had
been previously tried with great success
12 Notre Dame
xA «-r a****.*****.!*,**.********.****® w
Wiww«
J* •• ••	••
<
eftsari'*®*

University Library Has 450,000 Volumes
In 1873, the Reverend Augustine Lemmonier, C.S.C.,
fourth President of the University of Notre Dame,
first formed the University Library through the
cooperation of members of the Congregation of
Holy Cross, the academic departments and student
societies, all of whom had maintained small col-
lections of books for exclusive use of their members.
By 1879 the University Library had grown to
about 30,000 volumes. But in April of that year
fire destroyed the Main Building, which housed
the Library, and only a few books were saved. In the
seventy-six years since the fire the University Library
has developed into a collection of about 450,000
volumes excluding approximately 40,000 uncataloged
documents in the following libraries: the Law Li-
brary, the Architecture Library, the Engineering and
Metallurgy Libraries, the Science Library (Chem-
istry, Mathematics, Physics), and the Biology Library.
The Greene Botanical library of 3,000 volumes is
especially rich in early botanical literature. The
Julius A. Nieuwland botanical library of 10,000 vol-
umes is noted for the several botanical incunabula
and publications of botanical societies. The Main
Library holds about 260,000 volumes including the
Zahm South American collection of 1,500 volumes,
and a Hibernia collection of 3,000 volumes. The
Mediaeval Library of 5,000 volumes is strong on
mediaeval education and mediaeval universities,
having recently purchased the Stokes’ collection. The
Dante Library of about 3,500 volumes is especially
rich in incunabula and post-incunabula editions. The
Library has a small collection of literary manuscripts
and a fairly substantial part of the manuscripts of
Louise Imogene Guiney, some Francis Thompson
items, and the papers of Mary Eileen Ahem. The
present building is believed to have been the first
library building in a Catholic University specifically
built for library purposes.
in the branch libraries of biology, sci-
ence, architecture, engineering and law.
This plan offers the student more acces-
sibility to books. “Open shelf” collec-
tions contain current journals as well
as books on various subjects recom-
mended by the faculty.
Seating facilities have been extended
which now permit more than 500 stu-
dents to work in the Library at one
time. This is a definite improvement
as previous top capacity was 185. In-
cluded in this setup are 57 carrels—
individual study tables in a small
cubicle for graduate students and fac-
ulty members. Re-locating the art
gallery in O’Shaughnessy Hall of Lib-
eral and Fine Arts has been a tre-
mendous advantage in securing addi-
tional space for Main Library facilities.
The primary result of this transferral is
book space for at least 100,000 addi-
tional volumes. A new fluorescent light-
ing system and two huge ventilating
fans have been added to complete the
major improvements.
Notre Dame’s Library has enjoyed a
phenomenal record of progress over the
past two decades. Between 1935-45
the average annual increase was about
6,000 books. From 1945-54 an aver-
age of 22,000 volumes were added
each year.
Book contributors are being desig-
nated as a “Friends of the Library”
group. It is hoped that the University
will continue to receive private libra-
ries or collections from individual
donors. Already Mr. John B. Shaw,
a 1937 Notre Dame alumnus of Tulsa,
Okla., has contributed 1,000 of his
personal 11,000 book collection. An-
(Top): Open shelf collec-
tions. (Center): Study cu-
bicles for faculty. (Right):
“Friend of the Library”
book contributor plate.
other loyal Library friend is Mr. Joseph
Kotcha, a steel-worker in Homestead,
Pa., who has given 11,000 books to the
Notre Dame Library in the past 26
years.
Mr. Victor A. Schaefer, Library Di-
rector, heads a staff of fifty people—
forty of whom are full-time employees.
Eighty-three students work as part-time
librarian assistants. Mr. Schaefer came
to Notre Dame in 1952, when Mr. Paul
Byrne then head librarian was appoint-
ed curator of the art gallery. Mr.
Byrne, a Notre Dame alumnus of the
1913 class, served as director of the
library for 30 years. A graduate of
the University of Michigan, Mr. Schae-
(continued on page 15)
Vol. 8 • No. 2	13
(Left to right): Father Hesburgh; Student Foundation Chairman Jack Moynahan; and
Father John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., director of the Notre Dame Foundation.
Student Foundation Week
Achieves 93% Participation
Ninety-three per cent of the Notre
Dame students living on the campus
contributed funds to their alma mater
during Student Foundation Week. The
campus-wide drive was launched by
the Student Senate to acquaint the stu-
dent body with the pressing financial
problems of the University and the
work of the Notre Dame Foundation
which coordinates University develop-
ment and public relations activities.
According to Chairman Jack Moy-
nahan, LaGrange, Ill., sophomore,
3,668 of the 3,940 students living in
campus residence halls participated in
the unprecedented campaign. A sur-
vey of other colleges and universities
indicated that the Notre Dame cam-
paign was probably the first of its kind
conducted on a college campus.
Moynahan stressed that no goals or
quotas in terms of dollars were set in
advance and acknowledged that funds
realized from the drive were relatively
small. “We did strive for 100% student
participation regardless of the amount
of the gift,” he said, “and we are heart-
ened that we approached a perfect par-
ticipation record.”
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C.,
president of the University, com-
mended Moynahan, members of the
Hall Council and Student Senate offi-
cials who planned and conducted the
campaign. “Your remarkably success-
ful Student Foundation Week demon-
strates,” he said, “that our students
place great value on the education
which Notre Dame provides and re-
alize, too, that the University must re-
ceive support from its friends to insure
that this caliber of education will be
available to thousands of other young
men like yourselves in the years to
come.”
Helping Moynahan in the Founda-
tion drive were senior Harry Edelstein,
junior John Engler, and freshman
Charles Clesi.
American and Soviet Studies
(continued from page 9)
Dr. Gurian’s work was world re-
nowned. His writings on “Sovietism”
were thought to have influenced the
State Department’s Kennan in the
composition of the famous article on
international affairs announcing the
West’s anti-Communist “containment”
policy.
And other Notre Dame scholars,
such as Father Parry, Sandeen, Fred-
erick, Kennedy, Father Papin, Gapo-
nigri, and Szczesniak “through depth
and theoretical penetration” continue
to seek a “greater understanding” of
the errant philosophies and political
doctrines in a world that seems bent on
self-extinction. As they do, they “con-
tribute to knowledge necessary” for the
survival of the free world.
A.B. Students May
Major in Science
Students in Notre Dame’s liberal arts
school may major in one of the phy-
sical or biological sciences beginning
in September, Rev. Charles Sheedy,
C.S.C., dean of the College of Arts
and Letters, has announced.
Students who will be sophomores this
Fall may elect to major in botany,
chemistry, geology, physics or zoology,
Father Sheedy said, while still bene-
fiting from much of the content and
method of a liberal education. A pro-
gram of pre-medical studies also will
be offered for the first time in the
liberal arts school, he said, and a
mathematics major, offered in former
years, will be continued with some re-
visions. The bachelor of arts degree
will be awarded at the conclusion of
the four year program.
Traditionally, science majors have
been available at Notre Dame only in
the College of Science whose curri-
culum will remain unchanged. The
curriculum for science students in the
liberal arts school will differ from the
traditional curriculum in content, se-
quence and method, Father Sheedy
explained.
Included among the changes are an
intensive foreign language course which
will be taught six days a week for a year
instead of over a two-year period. Stu-
dents also will take a year-long social
science course embracing economics,
sociology and political science. In their
junior year science majors will take a
two semester seminar in the master-
works of literature. The sequence of
other courses will be changed so as to
harmonize simultaneous training in the
liberal arts and natural sciences.
NOTRE DAME IS TRULY
NATIONAL
Enrollment ranking by states in-
cludes these top 12:
1.	Illinois .............  912
2.	Indiana ______________  786
3.	New York ...........    683
4.	Ohio .................. 438
5.	Michigan ............   377
6.	Pennsylvania _________  306
7.	New Jersey .........    260
8.	Wisconsin ............. 146
9.	Massachusetts ........  134
10.	Missouri .............. 124
11.	California ..........   120
12.	Texas .................. 84
14
Notre Dame
Conventions Slated on
Campus This Summer
Notre Dame’s campus will serve as
headquarters for over a dozen conven-
tions and meetings this summer.
The first meeting was the Commu-
nity Priest and Brother retreat, June
7-8. Following this retreat was Alumni
Reunion weekend, June 10-13.
More than 1,500 attended the tenth
biennial convention of the Catholic
Theatre conference, June 12-16. Dur-
ing the same time, June 13-14, a Para-
sitologist meeting was also on campus.
The National Newman club meeting
convened from June 19-26.
A Vocational institute is the chief
convention scheduled for July. It as-
sembles from July 14-17.
Layman’s Retreat
The program for August begins with
the Spiritual Institute for Sisters, Aug.
3-9. Aug. 7-10 has been designated as
the time of the Probation Officers’ con-
vention.
The largest aggregation of the sum-
mer will be here for the Annual Lay-
man’s retreat. Over 2,000 are antici-
pated to make this retreat, Aug. 12-14.
Also on Aug. 14 the Young Chris-
tian Students’ movement begins its six-
day assembly. Aug. 19-21 are the dates
of the Christian Family congregation.
The Catholic Band session will be
the longest meeting. It is scheduled for
Aug. 16-31. The last gathering of the
summer months is the Crossroad as-
sembly, Aug. 27-Sept. 4.
The Library's New Look
(continued from page 13)
fer has studied in Rome, Italy, and has
been librarian at Scranton U., Catho-
lic University of America and the Army
Library in the Pentagon. He was
assistant director at the University of
Michigan Library before accepting the
position at Notre Dame.
Even with the decided improve-
ments Notre Dame still is in urgent
need of a new Library. But until this
‘hope’ materializes the University’s
Library will continue rendering a great
service to the student body as an
integral part of educational progress
under the Golden Dome.
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., receives $50,000 check given by representatives of
American brewing industry for scholarship fund in memory of the late Fred Miller, Sr. Left
to right: Edwin J. Anderson, president, Goebel Brewing Co.; Edward V. Lahey, president,
U. S. Brewers’ Foundation; Father Hesburgh; and Mrs. Fred Miller.
Brewers Contribute $50,000 to
Fred Miller Scholarship Fund
Representatives of the American
brewing industry recently presented
checks totalling $50,000 to the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame to establish a schol-
arship fund in memory of the late Fred-
erick C. Miller, president of the Miller
Brewing Co., Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Miller, his son Fred, Jr., and two pilots
were killed in a plane crash at Milwau-
kee last December 17. The elder
Miller was a Notre Dame alumnus
and his son was a Notre Dame student
at the time of their deaths.
Edwin J. Anderson, president of the
Goebel Brewing Co., Detroit, chairman
of a special committee within the indus-
try, made the presentation to Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.G., at a
MASS INTENTIONS
Arrangements have been made for the Holy Gross Fathers, as-
signed to the University of Notre Dame, to discharge Mass Inten-
tions of alumni and other friends of the University. Please mail
your requests to:
REV. EDWARD FINNEGAN, G.S.C.
Corby Hall, Notre Dame, Ind.
luncheon in the Morris Inn. Miller’s
widow, Adele, joined Father Hesburgh
in accepting the industry’s tribute to
her husband.
Scholarships provided by the Miller
Memorial Fund will be available to sons
of employees in the brewing industry,
Anderson explained. The University
will administer the fund and select the
scholarship recipients, he said.
Other industry representatives at-
tending the luncheon were Edward V.
Lahey, president of the U. S. Brewers
Foundation, New York City; Philip
Liebman, president of Liebman Brew-
eries, Brooklyn, N. Y.; and Joseph
Griesedieck, president of the Falstaff
Brewing Co., St. Louis.
O 3
Vol. 8 • No. 2
15
Student Engineers
Learn Teeliniques
Of Building Dams
By David Davin
The author is a Journalism major
and has been assistant sports editor of
the Notre Dame Scholastic. His home
is in Rochester, N. F.
TRAINING students how to har-
ness one of nature’s most valuable
resources—waterpower—has been an
important project for the past year in
Notre Dame’s new hydraulics labora-
tory. Two connecting channels extend-
ing thirty feet in length are “models”
which provide a continuous flow of
water.
Under the direction of Professor
Steponas Kolupaila (Ko-lou-pie-la),
Doctor of Engineering, student me-
chanical and civil engineers are taught
how to plan America’s waterways, and
make waterpower serve Eastern indus-
try as well as the West’s vital irrigation
network. Professor Kolupaila has been
a member of the University’s faculty
since 1949. He was born in Latvia, his
home was in Lithuania, he attended
school in Russia and he is now a nat-
uralized American!
Waterpower, says the scientist, “can
be man’s friend or man’s enemv.” A
specialist and outstanding author in the
field of fluid mechanics, Professor Ko-
lupaila is primarily concerned with
teaching and research in hydrometry
and hydrology. Hydrometry is studying
water flow and rate bv instrument and
observation—hydrology seeks to apply
these findings in determining water re-
sources and waterpower.
The two channels, which are used by
students in his course, permits water to
flow through them at the rate of two
cubic feet per second: one has built-in
observation windows. Efficient desk
models, charts and instruments of all
sizes indicate every phase of currents—
and all can be controlled from a cen-
tral location. An extremely interesting
piece of equipment in the lab is the
“traveling screen”—the only one of its
type used in this country. The screen
is an accurate device that measures cur-
Students study waterflow in
hydraulics laboratory.
rent rate by moving along with the
flow of water through the channel.
At the present time Professor' Kolu-
paila is in the process of preparing sta-
tistics on every major river in the
world. He is the author of many books,
the first of which was Hydrometry, pub-
lished in 1918. His books or articles are
in ten languages—mostly Lithuanian—
and the latest, Nemunas, was printed
in the United States five years ago.
Through a knowledge of applied
mathematics Notre Dame students who
are enrolled in his class learn how to
compute the size of bridges, how to
build toll roads, how to design dams—
J	o
and apply their ‘know-how' of these im-
portant projects to the tremendous

These two connecting channels are 30 feet in length.
(Left): Waterflow at the rate of 2 cu. ft. per second.
Prof. Kolupaila (second from left) inspects “traveling screen.”
work of flood control. Professor Kolu-
paila emphasizes that “waterpower
should be controlled for the benefit of
mankind.”
Students, however, and not labora-
tory equipment, are the professor’s real
interest in life. Lab sections arc pur-
posely kept to a minimum in number
of students so as to permit special atten-
tion for each man in the class.
Professor Kolupaila’s personal life is
as crowded as his academic schedule.
For a man of 63 he still walks a brisk
mile from home to school each day. His
hobby is photography and one of his
prized possessions is a gold medal won
at the photographic World’s Exhibition
held in Paris during 1937. Over' a ca-
reel' of 40 years at various times the
professor has taught in five languages
and speaks all European tongues ex-
cept three.
His early academic training was re-
ceived at the Geodetic Institute in
Moscow. Later he did graduate work
in hydrology and hydraulic engineering.
Professor Kolupaila did research in
Moscow for six years and was an ad-
visor on the Dnieper River Dam
project.
Professor Kolupaila. his wife and
three daughters all became United
States citizens last year. It is a rare
combination of talents and tastes that
will mark a man as a linguist, teacher,
writer, engineer, photographer. Notre
Dame students who have studied under
Professor Kolupaila consider him more
than just a person -who can do many
things well—-thev hold him in high
esteem as one who has a great per-
sonal desire to contribute the best in-
struction possible toward their educa-
tion as a professional engineer.
Vol. 8 • No. 2	17
Germfree guinea pigs are used
in scien-
tific tests at Lobund Institute.
By James B. Murphy
Notre Dame
18
The author is Director of Public
Information at Notre Dame.

Experiments in Tooth Decay and Amoebic
Dysentery Conducted byLobund Staff
BY COLLABORATIVE research
demonstrating that certain bac-
teria cause tooth decay, scientists of
the University of Notre Dame’s
Lobund Institute and Chicago Univer-
sity have earned the plaudits of the
Chicago Dental association. And, in
so being honored, the eight-man re-
search team announced that new
studies are already under way on the
Notre Dame and Windy City cam-
puses to determine if other strains of
bacteria will produce dental caries in
rats that were previously germ free.
Professors James A. Reyniers, Philip
C. Trexler, Robert F. Ervin, Helmut
A. Gordon, and Morris Wagner of
Lobund shared in a $500 prize annu-
ally awarded by the Chicago Dental
Society for excellence in dental re-
search, and their group received a
plaque emblematic of its achievement
at the society’s recent meeting.
The group from Chicago University
included Dr. Roy J. Blayney, former
director of the Zoller Clinic; Prof. R.
Wendell Harrison, bacteriologist and
University of Chicago vice-president;
and Dr. Frank J. Orland.
Working on the theory that tooth
decay is caused by germs normally
found in the mouth, the research team
studied a group of germ-free white
rats over a period of 150 days at the
Notre Dame laboratories. These ani-
mals, uncontaminated by any micro-
organism detectable by modem science,
were inoculated with a strain of acid-
forming streptococci and a rod-shaped
bacillus. Dental decay resulted in all
these animals whereas other germfree
rats, even when fed a highly cario-
genic diet, failed to show any trace of
dental caries.
These unique findings were reported
in the March issue of the Journal of
the American Dental Association.
In the prize-winning research paper
delivered at the meeting, Dr. Orland
reports that new studies are already
under way on the Notre Dame and
Chicago campuses to determine if other
strains of bacteria will produce dental
caries in rats that were previously
germ-free.
This collaborative project on the
cause of tooth decay is long range.
Earlier the Notre Dame and Chicago
scientists demonstrated for the first
time that tooth decay does not occur
in the absence of microbes.
LOBUND MOVIE
The Journalism Department at
Notre Dame, as part of its training
program for students, produces one
motion picture per year on some
phase of University activity.
The current project is entitled
“Life Without Germs.” The out-
door scenes of LOBUND’S build-
ings have already been completed
and some historical shots of Prof.
Reyniers as a young student work-
ing in old Science Hall have also
been made. The technical footage
showing the operation of germfree
apparatus, obtaining the animals,
feeding techniques, bacteriological
testing, etc., will be made next fall.
This film will be on 16 mm. and
will run approximately 14 minutes.
These research projects illustrate how germfree animals are used to study diseases in which microbes
are believed to be involved but whose exact role is difficult to investigate in conventional animals.
DECA
LESIONS
NO
E. hIstolytica
CONVENTIONAL, AMOEBA
EES
A
in
DECAY
EE
GERM FRE
E. HISTOLYTICA
DECAY
AMOEBA
fCOM .
BACTERIA
RM FREE
RAT
100%
DECAY
CERTAIN
P*££?T-NG STREPTOCOG
fENTIO
PROMOTING
RAT DIET
IXEDM
0ACTERI
AMOEBIC
LESIONS

DECAY
PROM.
IET
MOUTH
BACTERIA
SING&KINO
OF BACTER
FREE
EHISTOLYTICA
AMOEBA
E.COM
BACTERIA
A parasite previously regarded as the
sole cause of amoebic rysentery can-
not survive much less produce disease
in an animal that is otherwise germ-
free, it was reported recently at a
meeting of The American Society of
Parasitologists meeting jointly with
The American Society of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene.
Research conducted over a period of
three years at the University of Notre
Dame’s Lobund Institute indicates
that this parasite, an amoeba known to
scientists as Endamoeba histolytica, re-
quires help from at least one other
microorganism in order to produce dys-
entery. A report on the research was
made by Bruce P. Phillips, medical
protozoologist of the National Microbi-
ological Institute, a component of the
National Institutes of Health.
Disease Affects Millions
This amoebic dysentery research was
conducted by Phillips with the collab-
oration of W. H. Wright and C. W.
Rees, also of the National Institutes of
Health and P. A. Wolfe, H. A. Gor-
don and J. A. Reyniers of Notre Dame.
Amoebic dysentery or amoebia, al-
though classified as a tropical disease,
affects people the world over. It has
been estimated that between 12 and 15
million Americans harbor the disease
organism as carriers even though only
a small percentage of this number are
disabled by it.
Use Germfree Animals
Germ-free guinea pigs, available only
at the Lobund Institute, were in-
oculated with 300,000 of the organisms
which usually produce a fatal amoebic
dysentery in normally contaminated
animals within 14 days, Phillips re-
ported. However, within a few days
every trace of the amoebic dysentery
organisms had disappeared from the
intestines of the germ-free animals,
he said.
Phillips and his associates speculated
that some bacterium normally found in
the intestine must be present for the
amoebic dysentery parasite to thrive
and produce disease. While further re-
search may indicate more than one or-
ganism that fulfills this function, the
investigators have established that one
of the bacteria most commonly found
in the intestine, Escherichia coli, is en-
tirely adequate to render the amoeba
capable of producing dysentery.
While Phillips’ findings are of great
significance to scientists and public
health officials engaged in the interna-
o o
tional fight against amoebic dysentery,
the use of germ-free animals in micro-
biological investigations has even
greater long-range importance in his
opinion. The development of the
germ-free animal as a unique tool in
biological and medical research has
attracted international attention to No-
tre Dame’s Lobund Institute. There,
scientists have contradicted the theory
that animals need microorganisms for
survival. This research with amoeba
reemphasizes that it is possible for
scientists to introduce various disease
organisms one at a time into germfree
animals, an entirely new research tech-
nique that may lead to a better under-
standing of many diseases and disease
mechanisms.
Superior Service Award
Because of the excellence of this
work at Notre Dame, Phillips was pre-
sented the Superior Service Award of
the United States Public Health Serv-
ice by Oveta Culp Hobby, Secretary of
the Department of Health, Education
and Welfare, at a ceremony in Wash-
ington, D.C., April 11.
The research was supported by the
National Institutes of Health, the Of-
fice of Naval Research, and Notre
Dame.
Vol. 8 • No. 2
19
