The Notre Dame Athlete
A Survey Made of Monogram Men, 1895-1953
by John Cackley
Notre Dame’s enviable all-time foot-
ball record of 424 victories, 86 defeats
and 34 ties for a winning percentage
of .830 was compiled during the past
65 seasons of pigskin activities—exclu-
sive of 1955. Eight national champion-
ship teams have represented the Gold
and Blue and 18 undefeated Fighting
Irish elevens have carved a niche in
football’s hall of fame from coast to
coast.
What types of young men composed
these gridiron dreadnaughts? Were
they serious-minded lads who desired
an education or were they athletic
bums who majored in fresh air courses?
Did they attend Notre Dame only long
enough to play three years of varsity
sports and then leave without an aca-
demic degree? Have they been suc-
cessful in business and the professions
or do most of them end up on “skid
row”?
Answers to these questions, and
many more, are revealed in a survey
initiated by Rev. Edmund P. Joyce,
C.S.G., executive vice-president of the
University of Notre Dame and chair-
man of the faculty board in control of
athletics, and conducted by Dr. John
F. X. Ryan, assistant professor in the
MONOGRAMS.
FOOTBALL—at least 60 minutes playing time.
BASKETBALL—one-half of regularly scheduled contests and partici-
pation equal to one-fourth of the season’s playing time.
BASEBALL—same as basketball.
TRACK—scoring 15 points during the season, or winning places in Na-
tional Collegiate Games or members of winning relay teams.
TENNIS—winning three scheduled matches.
GOLF—participation in half of matches and scoring at least 10 points.
FENCING—winning five bouts or a .500 win or loss average if par-
ticipating in six or more bouts.
Department of Education. It covered
football and other sports monogram
winners from 1895 through 1953. Dr.
Ryan’s staff of assistants included Rob-
ert J. Waddick, faculty member; and
Leona Hosinski and Peter Grande,
graduate students. The analysis was
made last year and the material per-
tains to athletes who participated under
all Notre Dame grid coaches up to the
appointment of Terry Brennan.
In attempting to determine if inter-
collegiate football is good for the par-
ticipating student, it was thought that a
forceful and meaningful answer to this
question would be possible by asking
former Notre Dame athletes to express
their views on the subject. Obviously,
they could answer this question more
objectively after the glamour of par-
ticipation in sports had subsided and
after they had departed from the halls
of learning.
To critics of Notre Dame’s football
squads it might be shocking to know
that 90% of former players have gradu-
ated and that their average in all
courses was 82.3% — less than three
points short of cum laude academic
honors! Eliminating the 1943-45 war
years, fewer than 3% have failed to
are awarded on the following basis:
o
graduate in the 20-year period extend-
ing from 1930 to 1954.
The academic average of football
players compares more than favorably
with the student body as a whole.
During the past four-year period, end-
ing June, 1955, the University scholas-
tic average was 81.74%. In the past
schoolyear, 1954-55, the over-all aver-
age for freshmen was 81.16%.
Do athletes enroll in “snap courses”
simply because it is desirable that they
be given easy classroom tasks to allow
time for sports activities? One hundred
percent who returned questionnaires
replied unhesitatingly in the negative.
An All-American tackle said, “Abso-
lutely no! In fact, it was diametrically
the opposite. Because of the national
notoriety of Notre Dame the players’
loyalty and honor demanded that they
succeed equally in the classroom and
in their respective sport.”
Numerically speaking, the majority of
football participants, as well as the ma-
jority of the student body, have attended
the Colleges of Arts and Letters, and
Commerce. Since Notre Dame first be-
came a university over a century ago
most of Notre Dame’s students were
and still are enrolled in AB and Com-
merce courses. However, 39% of the
footballers indicated that their studies
were in science, engineering and law.
The response to the University’s
questionnaire was little short of amaz-
ing. There were 1,448 monogram
wearers in seven varsity sports to whom
the questionnaires were sent. A total
time of 9 days elapsed from the date
they were placed in the mail until they
were returned to the campus. Forty-
eight percent completed the form—a
truly phenomenal statistic in a project
of this kind. (Currently, returns have
now been received from about 60%).
In many instances the grid star was
not satisfied with a bachelor’s degree.
After getting a “sheepskin” from Notre
Dame, 30% continued their education-
2
Notre Dame
University of Notre Dome
1956 Football Schedule
Sept. 22 So. Methodist at Dallas, Tex.
Sept. 29 Open
Oct. 6 Indiana at Notre Dame
Oct. 13 Purdue at Notre Dame
Oct. 20 Mich. State at Notre Dame
Oct. 27 Oklahoma at Notre Dame
Nov. 3 Navy at Baltimore, Md.
Nov. 10 Pittsburgh at Pittsburgh, Pa.
Nov. 17 No. Carolina at Notre Dame
Nov. 24 Iowa at Iowa City, la.
Dec. 1 So. Cal. at Los Angeles, Calif.
al studies in graduate and professional
work.
From a dollar and cents viewpoint,
the financial status of ex-football men
is indicative of success. The present
annual median income is $9,179—by
comparison, in a national study con-
ducted by Time magazine several years
ago of college graduates, this amount is
substantially more than the latter’s fig-
ure of $6,300.
(Editor’s note: Football men ran a
close second to tennis players at Notre
Dame with the net squad earning the
highest annual median income of all
sports letter winners at $9,833—and
we’re sure it wasn’t a racket, either.)
Following graduation, 67% of the
Eligibility . . .
•	To be eligible for athletic par-
ticipation a student must be an
undergraduate, properly regis-
tered as a regular student and
doing successfully at least 15
hours of academic work.
•	No student is permitted to take
part in intercollegiate athletics
after the 8th semester in college.
•	Transfer students who have
participated in intercollegiate
athletics as a member of a var-
sity team at any university or col-
lege as undergraduates, are in-
eligible for intercollegiate compe-
tition at Notre Dame.
•	All athletes must maintain an
average of -37% for all courses
taken in the semester preceding
their participation in any particu-
lar sport.
Father Joyce and Dr. Ryan discuss the ‘Notre Dame Athlete’ survey.
gridsters started out in professional
jobs—usually of the coaching-teaching
variety. Thirty-seven percent are in
professional work and 56% can be
listed in the proprietor, official, mana-
ger classification. More than a third of
the total number answering question-
naires are in private industry.
The value of a Notre Dame educa-
tion is undeniably evident in that 99%
of the football group said they would
want their sons to attend Notre Dame
—this includes a segment of 5% non-
Catholics replying to the questionnaire.
Teaching Men How to Live
The common denominator of a No-
tre Dame education is teaching men
not only how to make a living but how
to live. Under the Golden Dome the
objective is to train the whole man—
morally, academically and physically.
In refutation to a few uninformed
complainers who believe that football
at Notre Dame is only the means to an
end, it would be well to note that 95%
of the questionnaires indicated that
undue emphasis was not placed on
winning. A former outstanding line-
man said, “This was proven to me
when I saw Coach Rockne eject a
prominent player from the game for
what could be termed unsportsman-
like conduct and subsequently expel
him from the squad.”
Because of the similarity in questions
asked monogram winners in other
sports such as basketball, baseball,
track, tennis, fencing and golf, it was
decided that an evaluation principally
of football would be more timely and
represent the greatest over-all interest.
47% of Track Men Do Grad Work
However, some additional highlights
were: 96% of basketball monogram-
ers were awarded degrees; a high aca-
demic average of 86% in all courses
was set by Jake Kline’s baseball team
and Walt Langford’s fencers; 47% of
the track squad pursued graduate or
professional studies; 53% of the tennis
players’ parents had attended college;
and 43% of the golfers first started hit-
ting those long balls in their native
northeastern section of the United
States.
All monogram men answering the
survey were of the opinion that the
areas in which participation of inter-
collegiate activity contributed most
were: teamwork, self-discipline, ability
to accept adversity as well as to meet
people, sportsmanship, health and rec-
reation.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the University of Notre
Dame, Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second
class matter May 10, 1928, at Post Office at Notre
Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, J25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, ’37, Managing Editor.
Vol. 8, No. 4	Winter, 1955
Vol. 8 • No. 4
3
As the year draws to a close, I would like to report
to you on the program of our Distinguished Profes-
sors’ Program. I believe that all of you will be happy
to learn that the Program has added immeasurably
to the academic growth of Notre Dame during the
past year.
One dramatic fact was the revision upwards of all
our faculty salary scales that resulted in $250,000.00
immediate raises in faculty salaries effective this
schoolyear. I trust that this move upward in regular
faculty salaries will continue, for we have a predomi-
nantly young and promising faculty that is becoming
more distinguished as the years pass.
We have also been enabled by the Distinguished
Professors’ Program to add new distinction to the
faculty this year. Dr. G. Frank D’Alelio, a leading
industrial scientist, has joined us as Head of the Chem-
istry Department, and Dr. Charles E. Brambel, for-
merly of Johns Hopkins University, has taken over
the Headship in Biology. Professor Philip Hughes, a
priest who came from England to our History Depart-
ment last February as a temporary appointment, has
joined our permanent faculty.
Professor Jean Chariot, one of the world’s out-
standing fresco painters, joined our faculty from
Hawaii during the Summer, and will return again next
Summer. We have a marvelous fresco on the wall of
the Students’ Lounge in the I. A. O’Shaughnessy Hall
of Liberal and Fine Arts as a memento of his time
here.
This fall, we have had a series of lectures in his-
tory by the famous American historian, Dr. Carleton
Hayes, and in theology by Frank Sheed of England.
Professor Antonio de Luna of Madrid has been with
us since September as professor of Law and Acting
Editor of our Natural Law Forum.
Professor Hans Hermans, a noted journalist of
Holland, has been lecturing these past weeks. All this
year, a world famous philosopher from the Univer-
sity of Fribourg, Switzerland, Rev. I. M. Bochenski,
O.P., has been a visiting professor in philosophy.
Dr. Gerhart Niemeyer has joined our permanent
faculty in political science, specializing in political
theory. He came to us from Columbia University.
A most distinguished addition to our department
staff this year was Ivan Mestrovic. During October,
we dedicated a new sculpture studio which Mr. and
Mrs. I. A. O’Shaughnessy provided for him. Mestro-
vic’s work in art is indeed world famous, and much of
it now displayed in our galleries at Notre Dame.
For the Spring semester, we have other distin-
guished professors to announce. Rev. Louis De Raey-
maeker, Director of the Advanced Institute of Phi-
losophy at the University of Louvain in Belgium, will
lecture on psychology. Professor Edward F. Caldin,
who was awarded a double first in philosophy and
science at Oxford, will be with us from England, and
another promising young English economist, Dr.
Michael P. Fogarty, will lecture here on industrial
relations. We are honored to have one of the best
German philosophers, Dr. Josef Pieper, who is coming
to this country to lecture at Notre Dame and at Stan-
ford University. We also hope to have Sir Richard
Livingstone with us again this Spring.
Our Laboratories of Bacteriology (Lobund) have
two additions to their permanent staff: Dr. Thomas
G. Ward, formerly of Johns Hopkins University, and
Dr. Bernard S. J. Wostmann of Holland.
In view of all this good news, I trust you will
understand the exuberance of our Christmas wishes
this year and our happiness at the promise of the
New Year.
To all who have made this good news possible
through their generous participation in Notre Dame’s
Distinguished Professors’ Program, many, many
thanks.

4
Notre Dame
New Structure Costs $250,000
If Brother Conan Moran, C.S.C.,
feels like a junior miss these days, he
has good reason. After 16 years of
managing the Notre Dame Bookstore
tucked tightly into a comer of the
ground floor of Badin Hall, he now
directs operations in the new $250,000
Hammes building, where the bookstore
has blossomed into a beautiful place in
which to shop or browse, with plenty
of room to grow.
There’s room, too, for the huge
crowds on football weekends and the
long lines of students waiting inside
to buy textbooks during the opening
days of school.
This transformation began in April
1954 with the announcement of a gift
from Mr. and Mrs. Romy Hammes of
Kankakee, Ill., to construct a new
bookstore. Contracts were let soon
afterwards, and the building was com-
pleted and opened for business in mid-
1955. Formal dedication took place
last September 23, with the Hammes
family as honored guests.
Both Mr. and Mrs. Hammes have
long been interested in Notre Dame
and its development. Mr. Hammes is
a member of the College of Com-
merce Advisory Council, and Mrs.
Hammes is active in the work of the
Women’s Advisory Council of the
University.
They have been honored by the
Holy Father for their support of the
Church and Catholic education and
have given substantial support to mis-
Vol. 8 • No. 4
5
I
' Mr. and Mrs. Hammes and Father Hesburgh pose with members of the Hammes family
at dedication ceremonies of the new bookstore building.
Brother Conan, C.S.C., Bookstore Manager.
Most Rev. Thomas K. Gorman, Bishop of Dallas-Fort Worth blesses the building.
L to R: Mr. Hammes, Mrs. Hammes, Bishop Gorman and Father Hesburgh.
Approximately 3,000 items are stocked on the first floor.
sionary work. Mr. Hammes operates
auto dealerships in Kankakee and
South Bend and has established hous-
ing developments in Illinois, New Jer-
sey and Nevada. He is active in many
civic and professional groups.
The building, situated on what was
once “Badin Bog” between Badin and
Walsh Halls, was designed by Prof.
Frank Montana, head of Notre Dame’s
Department of Architecture, in asso-
ciation with Robert Schultz of the ar-
chitecture faculty, and constructed by
Peter Schumacher & Sons.
The main section of the buff brick
building provides 16,400 square feet
of floor space in two stories for the
Bookstore’s new home. Although not
a book is to be found on the first
floor, the second is devoted almost ex-
clusively to reading matter.
In the basement of this section are
10 bowling alleys, operated by the
University for student use.
Entirely new is Gilbert’s Gampus
Shop, a haberdashery concession which
occupies the building’s one-story west
wing, joined by a colonnade to the
main structure.
A dozen full-time clerks and office
workers and a like number of students,
employed part-time, form the bookstore
staff. They serve about 1,800 cus-
tomers daily and as many as 10,000
over a football weekend on campus.
Bookstore customers can choose
from approximately 3,000 items
stocked on the first floor—including
monogrammed N.D. merchandise and
souvenirs, stationery and school sup-
plies, religious articles and jewelry,
radios and phonograph records, toilet
articles and sundries.
No new types of merchandise have
been added since the new quarters
6
Noire Dame
Bishop Gorman and Fr. T. J. O’Donnell, C.S.C.
Bro. Conan chats with Mrs. E. M. Morris.
were occupied, but the greater space
available has enabled Brother Conan
to expand the selection of the usual
articles, especially in luggage and pho-
tography supplies.
A watch repair shop is also housed
on the first floor, having been moved,
like the bookstore, from its former
cubbyhole quarters in Badin.
Upstairs are some 30,000 textbooks
and 20,000 trade books, the latter in-
cluding novels, classics, references and
O	j	J
new do-it-yourself and juvenile sec-
tions. Supplies for art and architec-
tural courses are also found on the
second floor.
All books are arranged on tables
and adjustable shelves in self-service
fashion, thus saving the customer con-
siderable time. Much the same proce-
dure is followed on the first floor, with
check-out counters placed near the
exits.
A part of the second floor is devoted
to bookstore offices, with a room set
aside for a travel bureau concession.
The bookstore continues to do a
substantial mail-order business as well.
All this lends an aura of glamor to
the Hammes Notre Dame Bookstore
never present in its predecessor. Broth-
er Conan may well agree that the new
shopping center was worth every one
of those 16 years.
(Top to Bottom) 50,000 books are on sec-
ond floor. A streamlined self-service system
for customers is aided by a check-out count-
er. Gilbert’s Campus Shop is an ultra-modern
haberdashery patronized by students, facul-
ty and visitors. Ten bowling alleys are
operated in the basement for student use.
Office staff is located on 2nd floor.
ran

$13,000,000 Budget Under Supervision
Of Vice-Pres. Rev. Jerome Wilson, c.s.c.
by Don Carbone
The author was graduated from Notre
Dame in 1953 with an A.B. degree in
Journalism. Currently he is enrolled in
the University's Graduate School and
taking courses leading to a Master’s
degree in Political Science. Mr. Car-
bone is a native of Chicago and was
associate editor of the Notre Dame
Scholastic., student news weekly,
while an undergraduate.
It's an axiom in education that you
can’t count coppers in an ivory tower.
Nowhere is this truer than in a large
private university. The problems—
financial and administrative—of opera-
ting such an institution must be met
practically, using the most modem and
successful methods adaptable from cor-
porate management.
Raising funds, levying tuition fees,
providing food and shelter for the stu-
dents, paying the salaries of faculty and
administrative personnel, maintaining
the physical plant—these are merely
the basic problems confronting a uni-
versity. They in turn involve a whole
network of management operations,
from supervising garbage collection to
balancing the budget.
The University of Notre Dame is
certainly no exception. Rather it is
typical of institutions where the hard
facts of high finance coexist with the
philosophies of higher education.
The skeletal structure of the Univer-
sity’s administrative organization is de-
ceptively simple. There are, of course,
the University Trustees, the President
and the Executive Vice-President.
Under these are separate vice-presi-
dents for academic, student and busi-
ness affairs and the Director of the
Notre Dame Foundation.
$6,500 Spent Each working Hour
Responsibility, under the President,
for the business and financial activities
of the University lies with the Vice-
President for Business Affairs, Rev.
Jerome J. Wilson, G.S.C., B.C.S.—the
man charged with paying the bills and
keeping within the budget.
The University’s budget — almost
$13,000,000 for the 1955-56 fiscal year
—indicates how immense this respon-
sibility is. In more striking terms per-
haps, Father Wilson must manage a
business which spends an average of
nearly $6500 every working hour.
Keeping this flood of expenditures in
line with the budget involves a complex
organization in itself. In supervising
the accounting, fiscal reporting and
budgetary functions of the University,
Father Wilson is aided chiefly by
Comptroller and Budget Director G.
Edward Harwood, B.S., C.P.A.
Under him are the Cashier, the
Director of Student Accounts, the
Father Wilson and G. E. Harwood, comptroller of the University.
8 Notre Dame
Supervisor of Tabulating and the Chief
Accountant.
Mr. Harwood’s duties principally are
to prepare and operate the budget and
supervise the accounting system.
Notre Dame employs the “Fund Ac-
counting” system recommended by the
National Committee on Standard Re-
ports for Institutions of Higher Edu-
cation and the Advisory Service of the
American Council on Education.
The actual work of keeping the
books is in the hands of Chief Ac-
countant Richard Burke, who super-
vises the general Accounting work.
The University employs internal
auditors who regularly and continuous-
ly examine all accounts and trans-
actions. This job also calls for them
to evaluate existing financial practices
and recommend improvements.
On the income side of the ledger,
Investment Officer William Broderick
handles various trust funds and Uni-
Father Wilson inspects the new barber shop on campus.
versity securities which must be kept
separate from the regular Endowment
Fund. He serves as secretary and
assistant treasurer for the Board of Lay
Trustees, the group charged with the
responsibility of holding, investing and
administering endowment funds. He
is directly responsible, however, to the
Vice-President for Business Affairs.
Father Wilson, as an ex-officio mem-
ber of the lay trustees board, reviews
its investments and acts as its link with
the University trustees.
This financial superstructure, how-
ever, is but a part of the business

VICE
BUSINESSAFFAIRS
BUILDING COMMITTEE
BUDGET COMMITTEE
PURCHASING
AGENT
COMMITTEE ON SCHOLARSHIPS
AND PRIZES - CHAIRMAN
DIRECTOR
OF STUDENT
AID
PATENT COMMITTEE
C-HAIRMAN
PRESIDENT
FOR
PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
SHOPS
DEPARTMENTS
GENERAL
ENTERPRISES
TTTF
1
UNIVERSITY
ENGINEER
JANITOR
MAIOS
FIRE
DEPT.
GENERAL
MAIN.
|g GARAGE
■ VEHICLES
GROUNDS
MAIN.
SU PT. OF
UTILITIES
CHIEF
ACCOUNT-
ANT
SUPERVISOR
OFBUILDIHGS
INTERIOR
OiRECTOROF
MAINTENANCE
EXTERIOR
BUSINESS
MANAGER
ATHLETICS
INTERNAL
AUDITORS
OIRECTOROF
STUDENT
ACCT
DIRECTOR
OF
PERSONNEL
MIMEO-
GRAPH
SUPERVISOR
OF
TABULATING
CO-ORDINATOR
OF
MEETINGS
GENERAL
PAYROLL
ACCOUNTS
DEPT.
PAYABLE
ACCT DEPT
FINANCE
COMPTROLLER
AND
BUDGET DIRECTOR.
INVESTMENT
OFFICER
CASHIER.
WAREH'SE
~E~"
DIRECTOR C
UNIVERSIT'
PRESS
affairs vice-president’s jurisdiction. The
University’s plant and equipment, gen-
eral administrative departments and
auxiliary enterprises are all under his
supervision.
The physical side of the University
—its 55 buildings, grounds, utilities and
equipment—all under Father Wilson’s
supervision and control—involves more
problems than most corporation busi-
ness managers ever even dream of
facing. Although these duties are dele-
gated to the University Engineer, the
Director of Maintenance, the Super-
AUXILIARY
H DIRECTOR OF 1 ■1 DIHING HALLS | H & FOOD SERV.I	1 DIRECTOR OF | I LAUNDRY & I I DRY CLEAN'G I		
		| OIRECTOROF I 1 GOLF COURSE 1 1 8 GOLF SHOP I	I MANAGER. 1 of g MORRIS INN
■ MANAGER. |	{manager |	| MANAGER. |	| MANAGER |
i BARBER I	1 book |	| TAILOR |	| BOWLING
■ SHOP I	I STORE |	1 SHOP 1	1 ALLEYS
visor of Buildings and the Superintend-
ent of Utilities, the ultimate responsi-
bility is his.
The Supervisor of Buildings, Rev.
George Holderith, G.S.C., and the Di-
rector of Maintenance, Vincent Fraatz,
are the “Mr. Inside and Mr. Outside”
of campus upkeep. All interior main-
tenance is regulated by the Supervisor
of Buildings; more than tending to the
exterior of buildings is included in the
duties of the Director of Maintenance.
He is also responsible for grounds, roads
and sidewalks, moving and hauling,
vehicles and machinery, the greenhouse
and the lakes, sanitation and safety.
Five union shops—tin, pipe, electric,
paint and carpenter—operate under
the maintenance director, as do the
grounds and general maintenance
crews.
A third administrative area super-
vised by Father Wilson in his business
managerial duties covers such general
departments as the Personnel and Pur-
chasing offices, the University Press and
Student Aid, as well as the business
aspects of athletics and summer meet-
ings on the campus.
The final division of business affairs
encompasses the University’s auxiliary
enterprises: the dining halls, cafeteria
and Huddle, the laundry and dry clean-
ing services, the golf course and bowl-
ing alleys, the Morris Inn, the tailor
shop, the Bookstore, the barber shop
and vending machines.
These are operated primarily to pro-
(continued on page 181
Vol. 8 • No. 4
9
Notre Dame awarded an honorary degree to Gen. David Sarnoff at a special convocation.
L to R: Father Hesburgh, Gen. Sarnoff and Father Joyce.
Dedication of WNDU-TV Features
Talk by General Sarnoff and the
Eddie Fisher ‘Coke Time’ Show
WNDU-TV, Notre Dame’s new
television station, was formally dedi-
cated October 1 during a weekend of
ceremonies which also included a
special convocation and a network tele-
cast from the campus.
At the academic convocation Sep-
tember 30, the University bestowed an
honorary Doctor of Science degree on
Brigadier General David Sarnoff, board
chairman of the Radio Corporation of
America.
Also on Friday evening, singer Eddie
Fisher’s popular television program,
“Coke Time,” was broadcast from the
campus over the NBC network.
At the formal dedication ceremonies
the following day, Rev. Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.C., Notre Dame presi-
dent, blessed the station’s new studio-
WNDU-TV, Channel 46, is affiliated with the National Broadcasting Company.
office building, constructed this sum-
mer immediately north of the Drill
Hall on the campus.
General Sarnoff, a pioneer of the
American radio and television industry,
delivered the principal address at the
convocation. Speaking on “The Moral
Crisis of Our Age,” he stressed that
neither the politician nor the scientist
can meet the challenge of our times
without Religion.
“The final test of Science,” he de-
clared, “is not whether its accomplish-
ments add to our comfort, knowledge
and power, but whether it adds to our
dignity as men, our sense of truth and
beauty. It is a test Science cannot
pass alone and unaided.”
Rather, he said, “the major burden
rests on Religion—to show to all men
and institutions the way to life based
on a foundation of moral principles.”
Congratulating Notre Dame on its
“vision and initiative” in establishing
its own television station, General Sar-
noff described television on the cam-
pus as “the modem counterpart of the
blackboard and textbook.”
In establishing WNDU-TV, he said,
“you have taken another important
step in pulling down the wall that so
often separates the academic from the
workaday world, and both worlds are
certain to benefit from the closer ex-
change.”
General Sarnoff was introduced by
■ Notre Dame’s Executive Vice-Presi-
dent, Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, C.S.C.,
master of ceremonies for the convoca-
tion. Rev. Philip S. Moore, G.S.C.,
vice-president for academic affairs,
read the citation, and Father Hes-
burgh conferred the degree on Notre
Dame’s new honorary alumnus.
General Sarnoff began his brilliant
career as a wireless operator and at 39
became president of RCA. Recognized
for his many contributions to the tech-
nological and artistic development of
both radio and TV, he has been called
“the father of American television.”
He was awarded the Medal of Merit
and the Army's Legion of Merit for
outstanding service in World War II.
o
(L to R) WNDU-TV staffmen Ed Roth, program director, and
Bernard C. Barth, station manager; Gen. Sarnoff, Father Joyce and
Mr. Edgar Kobak, former president of Mutual Broadcasting System.
TV dedication participants (1 to r): Mr. Lee, Mr. Hyde, Father Hes-
burgh, NBC executive vice-pres. Mr. Robert Sarnoff, Mr. Doerfer,
Father Moore, Gen. David Sarnoff and Mr. Frank Folsom, RCA pres.
Eddie Fisher and his NBC “Coke Time” show were featured from the
campus. The Notre Dame Glee Club provided a musical background.
Father Joyce presided as master of ceremonies. The Moreau
Choir, glee club and band were also on the program.
The convocation ceremonies also in-
cluded selections by Eddie Fisher, the
Notre Dame Glee Club and the Uni-
versity Band. The Moreau Seminary
Choir joined the Band and Glee Club
in the dedicatory program.
Among the guests at the dedication
were Mayors John Scott of South Bend,
Albert Doyle of Mishawaka and Edwin
Cramer of Niles, Mich., and Federal
Communications Commissioners Rob-
ert E. Lee, John C. Doerfer and Rosel
Hyde.
Representing NBC were: Executive
Vice-President Robert Sarnoff, the
General’s son, George Frye, vice-presi-
dent in charge of sales, and Davidson
Taylor, vice-president in charge of
public affairs for the network.
Guests of the University included
members of its Liberal and Fine Arts
advisory council.
RCA President Frank Folsom and
Business Consultant Edgar Kobak,
Notre Dame alumnus and former presi-
dent of the Mutual Broadcasting
System, were also present. Both are
members of the University’s Advisory
Council for Science and Engineering.
The new studio-office building also
houses the facilities of radio station
WNDU, formerly known by the call
letters WHOT and recently acquired
by the University.
WNDU-TV, which transmits on
UHF channel 46, actually signed on
the air and began operations July 15.
Although a commercial station affili-
ated with the NBC Television network,
WNDU-TV will draw upon the re-
sources of the University to create its
own educational programs. It is ex-
pected to become a center for training
in the communications arts at Notre
Dame.
The student-operated campus radio
station will continue to function, even
though its call letters have been ap-
propriated by the University’s station.
The “Student Voice of Notre Dame”
—once WNDU—is now known as
WSND. Its studios are located on the
top floor of the O’Shaughnessy Hall of
Liberal and Fine Arts.
Master control room in WNDU-TV station.
Film processing room in campus television building.
Scholarships, Loans
And Employment
Available to
Deserving Young Men
at Notre Dame
Financial aid for Notre Dame stu-
dents has been as traditional as win-
ning football games. Distribution of
$740,000 will be made to this pro-
gram during the school year 1955-56
—a gift totaling more than twice the
net revenue of $360,000 from all ath-
letics last year. Approximately one-
third of the present student body
would be unable to attend classes un-
der the Golden Dome if it were not for
this generous sum allocated to deserv-
ing young men of limited financial
resources.
Literally thousands of N.D. alumni
have graduated from four-year courses
through the provisions of Student Aid.
Many of them, now highly successful,
owe their current position to the
“financial lift” received as a dining
hall bus boy while they struggled
through calculus and thermodynamics.
Like Gaul, financial assistance to
students is divided in three parts: 1)
employment; 2) scholarships and fel-
lowships; and 3) direct loans.
Almost half of the more than 1,700
students receiving help are working a
substantial portion of their way
through school. The student job pro-
gram is supervised by the Personnel
Department which assigns duties and
schedules to 809 students earning up
to 25 percent of their tuition and
working an average of 12 hours per
week.
Jobs for those who qualify are about
as numerous as sergeants in the Army.
Some are extremely specialized such as
an IBM operator and the organist in
Sacred Heart Church. Others may
vary from typists to messengers to
(Right) Student employee working the
“between-class” shift at The Huddle, favor-
ite refreshment hangout on campus.

(Top) Student employee in athletic equipment room. (Below) Father Hesburgh meets with
the General Motors scholarship winners: (1 to r) Charles A. Bowen, Jr., Phillips J. Gibson,
James J. Short, John J. Uebbing and Richard Sampson. They are in the freshman class and
the first GM group on campus under the corporation’s new scholarship plan.
equipment room assistants (handing
out sweat socks to would-be All-
Americans) . Requirements for student
employment are rigid and demanding:
the individual must show financial
need, he must have an exemplary dis-
ciplinary record and his academic av-
erage must be at least 77 percent (70
percent is passing). Preference is
given to upperclassmen who have
demonstrated that they meet qualifica-
tions after the completion of their
freshman year.
An expenditure of $250,000 will be
in the current fiscal budget for wait-
ers, life guards, secretaries, clerks, cor-
rectors, library assistants, addresso-
graph operators, recreation room su-
pervisors, building custodians, soda
fountain operators, and numerous
others, all of whom will be working
the ‘college shift’ during 1955-56.
Scholarships, Loans to 1,000 Students
Distribution of scholarships and
loans to nearly 1,000 students is under
the direction of Rev. Alfred F. Men-
dez, C.S.G., who also functions as di-
rector of the Placement Bureau and
co-ordinator of summer conventions.
Father Mendez fixes a keen, analytical
eye on scholarship and fellowship ap-
plications and the student has to meet
all specified requirements—or else.
Many scholarships are available
through donations from individuals
(non-alumni as well as alumni), cor-
porations and Alumni Clubs.
Education, today, is a beneficial and
valuable commodity. Notre Dame has,
without fanfare and exploitation,
placed the privilege of a college edu-
cation on a below-cost basis. The
student actually defrays only about 70
percent of his educational bill while
an approximate deficit of $500 is un-
derwritten by the University on each
student whether he be scholarship win-
ner or paying on a straight cash-as-
you-go plan.
Since scholarship aid, as such, is a
help to the student rather than to the
University, many corporations now are
contributing a direct gift of $500 to
the University with each scholarship.
Included in this group are: Ford, Gen-
eral Motors, Wheelabrator, RCA,
Maytag, Union Carbon and Carbide,
Rink and General Electric.
More than 300 students will be
given a total of $270,000 in scholar-
ship awards this year. Scholarships are
categorized as Regional (usually de-
pends on geographic location), Re-
£
I
(Top) Student working as a lifeguard in the Rockne Memorial pool. (Below) Father Mendez
and the Rink Scholarship group, (1 to r) Albert E. Choate, John Mulligan and James C.
Swain. These students are from Boys Town, Nebr., and the scholarships are sponsored by the
Rink Foundation. Mr. R. M. Rink is a Notre Dame alumnus, class of 1924.
stricted (limited to students possessing
a special qualification required by the
benefactor), and General (the Univer-
sity will decide who gets them).
Determining factors for scholarships
include superior scholastic perform-
ance, outstanding character, welfare of
the University, promise of leadership
and financial need. Frequently the
donor will specify that the recipient
maintain an 85 percent class average.
Some scholarships have been given as
memorials to deceased family mem-
bers, others are estate gifts which offer
a stipend from income of the preced-
ing year, while still others are ear-
marked for specialists in metallurgy, ?
chemistry and mechanical engineering.
, Twenty alumni clubs provide partial
scholarships which are usually re-
stricted to students from those club
areas.
Each year there are graduate teach-
ing fellowships in the Departments of
Biology, Chemistry, Mathematics and
Physics and, as the need arises, they
are also provided in various other de-
partments.
Notre Dame has four separate and
distinct loan funds which are main-
tained for students who need money to
continue their education. The Fisher
in
to
it
to
at-
Educational Fund was established
1950 on a revolving cash loan basis
assist worthy students who found
difficult to earn sufficient money
pay all necessary expenses while

tending college. Students may borrow
from the Fund’s total of $250,000.
Repay Fisher Loan
Recipients of a Fisher loan are ex-<
pected to repay the amount of money ’
borrowed plus a moderate rate of in-
terest after leaving school. Mrs. Fisher
specified that the Fund would not be
used solely for those who rate highest
scholastically but “is intended to give
an opportunity to all students who are /
willing to work and who qualify forr<
admission to the University.”
Three additional loan funds
part of the over-all program.
Student Senate administers a
are a
The
“small
loan” fund with amounts not exceed-
ing $50 and limited to one month; the
Emergency Loan Fund has a working
capital of $50,000 and will benefit
about 300 students this year; the estate
of the late Mr. Herbert Mendelson of
Detroit, Mich., and Los Angeles, Calif.,
has provided a loan fund of $50,000
which is limited to students residing in
the State of Michigan.
$6,200
Lt. Joseph P. Kennedy Jr.
Four Year Scholarship
ciifclfd
To Notre Dame
University
IITto is eltgibh '
pitted cl Uetl tit atcothf of ochre 1 A awtnbenhip, cod be graduated
■ran* high Khooi dvnog the coun» of the t?5$-54 J A. program y.c<
thdetgetJuM WS6.
th* Jowph f	Jr Manorial Award n ovotabl* to •	3O.*g
non « Aw AdMvtment throughout ib* Uwed Slo'n who wJ ho<« ctw
Photo and information of the Lt. Kennedy
Award are from a poster sent to high school
principals. Lt. Kennedy graduated from
Harvard in 1938. As a U.S. Navy flyer he
was posthumously awarded the Navy Cross
and Air Medal.
Qualtjicationn
Cehdidelet for the J* 500 Award will be nt»i ««
1 The degree to wtxh they eieepUf the rteiwH, rdeafi ond
dicr«te<rtha of Levfenon* Joseph P Kennedy Jr > ft*
9 Acadeeuc reread
3	PorncpoM* m e tro-CurntUor och twe
4	IM candidate 1 leodenhip end participation m A* X A program
S	Penonoi eeohtchon by the 1 A Ad»ner o ichooi otFmct and me
1 A Erecvhte Director
For Full belaiU ^ie lour
Junior Achie\emenl Director or School Principal
Memorial Scholarship
Given Youth Program
A four year scholarship to Notre
Dame, valued at $6,200, will be award-
ed to a young man active in the Junior
Achievement program by the Joseph P.
Kennedy, Jr. Foundation. Junior
Achievement members who will be
graduated from high school during the
1955-56 school year are eligible for the
award.
The scholarship is a memorial to the
late Lt. Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr., who
was killed in action during World War
II. His father was formerly American
ambassador to Great Britain and a
member of Notre Dame’s Associate
Board of Lay Trustees.
Representatives of the Junior
Achievement organization, the Ken-
nedy Foundation, and the University
of Notre Dame will select the scholar-
GIFT FORMULA
The Foundation Office has re-
ceived a very interesting gift from a
member of the Glass of 1953:
“Enclosed is a check for two per
18 POWERFUL SHORT STORIES
OF MIDWESTERN FARM LIFE
are presented:
MEN IN
THE FIELD
By Leo L. Ward, C.S.C.
Tais collection of short stories is pub-
lished as a memorial to Father Ward
who was, until his death in 1953,
head of the English Department at
Notre Dame. The complete manu-
script for MEN IN THE FIELD
as arranged by Father Ward for pub-
lication was found among his papers
after his death.
The stories are appealing in their
subject matter, in the cross section
of life they show—the days and ways
of real corn-belt farm life of a gen-
eration ago. They hold more than
the exact detail of farm life, they
hold its spirit.
UNIVERSITY PRESS,
NOTRE DAME, IND.
$3.50
cent of all wages I received last
year, my first year out. It will be
interesting to see what 2% will be
next year.”
This formula, generally adopted,
would certainly raise the average
gift amount in the large majority of
gifts. And it is still not so frighten-
ing as the older “tithe” practice.
Participating in dedication ceremonies of the new $75,000 Sculpture Studio were (L to R):
Prof. Ivan Mestrovic, world-famed sculptor and now a member of the Notre Dame faculty;
Mrs. Mestrovic; Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy and Mrs. O’Shaughnessy, donors of the Studio as
well as the O’Shaughnessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts; and Father Theodore M.
Hesburgh, C.S.C., University president.
ship winner. Candidates will be evalu-
ated on their academic record, their
participating in extra-curricular activi-
ties, their leadership and participation
in the Junior Achievement program,
and “the degree to which they exem-
plify the interests, ideals and character-
istics of Lt. Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr.’s
life.”
Candidates may obtain complete
details from their Junior Achievement
director or their high school principal.
16
Notre Dame
M Express loti of Jaith...
Mr. Funk Bequeaths $56,327 to Notre Dame
Fifty years ago Art Funk was completing his fourth
season as a standout tackle on the Notre Dame football
varsity. He was a popular member of the senior class
whose prophecy in the Dome, student yearbook, predicted
that this young man was destined to be “president of a
large corporation.”
A generous bequest of $56,327 from the estate of the
late Mr. Arthur S. Funk, ’06, president of the LaCrosse
(Wisconsin) Rubber Mills Company, has recently been
received by the University of Notre Dame for the En-
dowment Fund.
After obtaining his early education in the LaCrosse
public schools, Mr. Funk graduated from Notre Dame in
1906 with a B.S. degree in chemistry. While an under-
graduate at Notre Dame in 1904-06, he was a co-worker
of the Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C.S.C., in early research
activities of acetylene chemistry. Because of his excel-
lent record in the field of mathematics and also since there
was a staff shortage, Mr. Funk was appointed as an in-
structor of college mathematics in his junior year. He
remained on the faculty as a chemistry professor in the
1906-07 school year. He then went to the University of
Illinois where he did graduate work in ceramics and taught
in the department of physics.
In 1909 Mr. Funk returned to his native city where
he became associated with his father, Michael, and his
brother, Albert P., in the management and development
of the waterproof shoe and boot business. Besides being
company president at the time of his death, he had also,
at various periods, been treasurer and general manager
of the rubber mills.
Mr. Funk was one of Wisconsin’s most prominent busi-
nessmen. He not only served as president of the LaCrosse
Rubber Mills Company but, in addition, he was a director
of the Batavian National Bank, a director of the LaCrosse
Trailer Company and president of the Valley Company.
The $56,327 bequeathed by Mr. Funk to Notre Dame
will be used to continue the training of tomorrow’s leaders
and to teach them that the “knowledge of God is the be-
ginning of wisdom.”
ARTHUR S. FUNK, ’06
Through a bequest it is possible for you to
make a more substantial gift to Notre Dame
than you can afford during your lifetime.
But the size of a bequest is by no means the
measure of its significance. Be it modest or
munificent, it is an expression of faith.
For the guidance of those considering making a bequest to the
University of Notre Dame, the following form is suggested:
I hereby give and bequeath to the University of Notre Dame du lac, an Indiana corporation, at Notre
Dame, Indiana, the sum of \
dollars.
All the rest, residue, and remainder of my estate, both real and personal, I give, devise, and bequeath
to the University of Notre Dame du lac, a corporation, located at Notre Dame, Indiana.
Vol. 8 • No. 4
17
LIBRARY RECEIVES
IRISH COLLECTION
A valuable collection of 100 books on
Irish, history, archeology and topo-
graphy, literature, drama and music,
economics and sociology, folklore and
mythology, and the Irish language has
been given to the Notre Dame Library
by the Government of Ireland.
The Honorable Sean G. Ronan,
Consul of Ireland in Chicago, Ill., pre-
sented the books and also addressed
the Irish Culture Club on campus. Mr.
Ronan traced many interesting aspects
of Irish tradition and history for his
audience. He stated, “It is with feel-
ings of pride that we in Ireland view
the teaching of Irish history here and
the fact that in a far-away place there
exists an appreciation of our long
struggle for our faith, our integrity, our
cultural identity and our freedom.”
Ireland’s Golden Age
The actual beginning of Irish history
dates from the introduction of Chris-
tianity by St. Patrick in the 5th century.
Mr. Ronan stressed that the centuries
which followed led to a “flowering of
Ireland’s Golden Age.” Although the
Danish invasion in the 9th century kept
the country in a state of terror for
several hundred years the marauders
were finally defeated by Brian Boru.
Mr. Ronan listed many of the heroic
fighters for Irish independence in the
past 700 years including Hugh O’Neill,
Hugh O’Donnell, Robert Emmet,
Charles Stewart Parnell and others. In
1921 a treaty was signed with England
which gave freedom to 26 of Ireland’s
32 counties.
The Irish Consul outlined the friend-
ly relations and strong ties between
Ireland and the United States and
said, “many of our people have con-
tributed to the political development
of the United States and to its spirit-
ual, material and national advance-
ment.” And he emphasized that many
native sons and daughters of Ireland
had found refuge in this country from
religious and political persecution. In
concluding, Mr. Ronan reminded his
audience not to forget their Irish heri-
tage which will “assist you in contribu-
ting towards the making of a greater
and a better U. S.”
L to R: Asst. Law Dean John J. Broderick, Irish Consul Ronan, University Archivist Father
Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., and Father Edmund J. Murray, C.S.C., asst. prof, of history.
High Finance
(continued from page 9)
vide necessary services to the students.
However, the profits some of them yield
also help to defray a bit of the high
cost of educating the students.
Tuition, fees and other income from
students make up less than 60 per cent
of the total University budget. Notre
Dame must look to other sources, in-
cluding benefactors, to make up the
difference.
Salaries and wages account for more
than half of the total expenses. Athletic
income is used to support the whole
varsity and interhall athletic program.
Food purchases approximate $1.5 mil-
lion yearly. Maintenance costs include,
to mention but one, the power plant’s
average daily consumption of 62 tons
of coal. These help to give some idea
of the magnitude of the University’s
business operation.
Notre Dame’s total endowment is
minute compared to other universities
of comparable or larger enrollment; it
yields an annual income sufficient to
cover only five per cent of the Univer-
sity’s budget. This contrasts with the
31 per cent of expenses met by Har-
vard’s endowment income.
Trying to make ends meet under
these circumstances presents its head-
aches, despite the University’s excellent
budgetary procedure and the wise in-
vestment practices of the Associate
Board of Lay Trustees.
One soothing fact is the University’s
ability to function with a minimum
practical staff. Father Wilson stressed
that full credit in accomplishing the
delegated duties in the management of
Notre Dame’s business affairs should
go to his excellent staff.
In addition to those already
mentioned, business affairs staff mem-
bers include: Rev. John Reddington,
G.S.G., director of the Laundry; Rev.
Alfred Mendez, C.S.C., director of
Student Aid; Bookstore Manager Bro-
ther Conan Moran, G.S.C., Brother
Albinus Butler, C.S.G., cashier; Brother
Borromeo Malley, C.S.C., superintend-
ent of utilities; David Ford, dining
halls manager; Armand Lysak, mana-
ger of the Morris Inn; Emerit Moore,
director of students’ accounts; Purchas-
ing Agent Jerome Sechowski; Director
of Personnel Joseph O’Brien; Kenneth
Doty, tabulating supervisor; John De-
fant, director of the University Press.
Balancing such economies against
the needs of the University’s 100-plus
departments, confining expenses to the
bounds of incomes, and at the same
time enabling the University to func-
tion in a successful business-like man-
ner require the best in management
men and methods. And Notre Dame
has exactly that.
18
Notre Dame
Year-End Suggestions . ..
Cost per $100 of Deductible
Charitable Contributions
If Taxable Income before de- ducting contributions is —		Cost per $100 of Deductible Charitable Contribution is —	
Not Less	But Less	For Single	For Married Persons
Than	Than	Person	Filing Jointly
$ 8.000	$ 10,000	$ 66.00	$ 74.00
10,000	12,000	62.00	74.00
14,000	16,000	53.00	70.00
20,000	22,000	44.00	62.00
32,000	38,000	35.00	50.00
44,000	50,000	28.00	41.00
50,000	60,000	25.00	41.00
70,000	80,000	19.00	35.00
100,000	150,000	1 1.00	25.00
200,000	300,000	9.00	1 1.00
Cost per $1,000 of Deductible
Charitable Contributions*
Taxable	Cost of
Income	$1,000 Gift
$ 10,000	$ 780.00
15,000	740.00
20,000	700.00
25,000	656.00
50,000	440.00
* Above table ($1,000) based on married couple with two children
Charitable contributions, under existing
tax laws, cost less than you think. A
special reason for giving to Notre Dame
in 1955 from an income tax viewpoint
is the probability that taxes will be re-
duced in 1956. This year’s dollars you
give to Notre Dame will be cheaper
than those you contribute in ’56. If taxes
are lowered the government will share
less of the cost and you will pay more.
With the end of 1955 fast approach-
ing, the following information is high-
lighted for alumni and non-alumni
friends who are interested in tax bene-
fits regarding a contribution to Notre
Dame.
A Gift of Cash
Existing tax rates have been extremely
helpful in permitting the taxpayer to
make a charitable contribution to Notre
Dame at low cost. When you give to
an educational institution such as Notre
Dame a deduction of the full amount of
your gift up to 30% of your adjusted
gross income for Federal tax income pur-
poses is allowable.	,
A Gift of Property or Securities
The gift need not be from income or
cash. Equally deductible is a property
gift or a gift from securities. Those that
have increased in value while held by an
individual are deductible at full market,
value and are free from any tax on capi-
tal gain—this results in a double saving
to the donor!
Giving by Corporations
Corporations contributing beyond the
5% limitation in any single year can ex-
tend the excess over as deductions in the
two succeeding years—subject, of course,
to the 5% limitation for each of the
three years. The actual cost of each con-
tribution dollar is only 48 cents for cor-
porations which have taxable incomes in
excess of $25,000—taxes are paid at a
rate of 52% of such excess. Smaller cor-
porations with incomes less than $25,000
are taxed at 30% and the cost of each
dollar contribution is 70 cents. Surveys
have indicated that smaller corporations
are more generous than lafge companies.
Vol. 8 • No. 4
19