$
Notre Dame
The President's Page
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of Notre Dame 3
The Sword of the Spirit
Paul Mallon ......... 6
Football Week-end.....................8
Some Answers to Basic Questions
About the University..............12
The '60's and '70's at Notre Dame
(Third in a Series).............  14
Our Masterpieces.....................17
N.D. Debate Teams Are National Champs, Too
Leonard F. Sommer................21
The Earth Is Their Oyster
James J. Klockenkemper ..... 22
Basketball Highlights
Raymond J. Donovan ...... 24
Christmas Greetings................  25
Our Contributors ......... 26
Brass Tax and the Golden Dome .... 27
VOL. 2 • NO. 1
The University of Notre Dame
V^rDE»G»ADVATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GHABEATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering’ Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • o
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) • Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.	,
Notre Dame
Published quarterly by The University of Notre Dame at Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second-
class matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor • John N. Gackley, Jr., ’37, Managing Editor
Contributors' views do not necessarily reflect those of the University.
VOL. 2
JANUARY • 1949
NO. 1
T/ie
President’s Page
New Science Building
Planned for 1949
I HAVE an announcement of considerable moment. At
present, the supreme endeavor of the University is to
meet an immediate situation: we should begin within
the year 1949 the construction of a new Science building.
Our lack of facilities for the students and research staffs
in physics, chemistry and mathematics is critical. It has
gone beyond the stage of urgency and inconvenience. It
is an undeniable necessity.
Plans have been drawn for the new Science building.
It will be of simple construction, as inexpensive as is
possible in a structure designed for modern scientific re-
search laboratories. The cost will be about $1,750,000.
It will be placed adjoining the Chemistry Building and
will provide extra space for Chemistry, new facilities for
the Department of Physics and the Department of
Mathematics.	,
Unrestricted contributions to Notre Dame in 1946 and
1947 have built up a fund of $350,000, which the Uni-
versity has designated as the beginning of the Science
Building Fund.	,	•
Because of the extreme urgency of this need, it is our
plan to begin construction in 1949' I am asking the
alumni of Notre Dame and the workers of the Notre
Dame Foundation to make an all-out effort to raise by
the end of 1949 the $1,400,000 that is still needed.
The present need is critical. We are faced with the
choice of constructing new facilities or of cutting our
enrollment by about 1,000 students in order to make room
for research to be carried on.
* * *
If it had not been for the generous support of alumni
and devoted friends, Notre Dame could never have be-
come what it is today. I have deep confidence that the
devotion to Notre Dame will rise up to meet the present
emergency.
This year we have 47 new members on our teaching
staff, among whom are some outstanding scholars. I
believe that the quality and ability of these new men
have made our staff much stronger.
Some extraordinary developments in the fields of re-
search have taken place this year. I cannot go into a
description of them all, but I want to describe one in
particular which is especially fascinating: Dr. Charles
Price, head of the Department of Chemistry, has been
working on isolation and identification of the compound
responsible for the Rh factor in human blood. Rh is re-
sponsible for many still births; the compound, isolated
by the extraction of red blood cells, is evidently able to
prevent such still births. This will be cheering news to
Vol. 2 • Vo. 1
3
thousands of married couples who have been prevented
from having children by Rh.
Several new research laboratories have been set up in
the College of Science and these should enable the College
to carry on more meaningful research that will result in
benefits to our society. The new germ-free laboratory
building is nearing completion; it is our hope that germ-
free animals can be reared in large quantities for the
laboratories of Bacteriology at Notre Dame and at other
research centers. A quarter of a million dollars has been
put into this; we believe it is a sound investment in
scholarship.
The meeting of the Advisory Council for Commerce,
September 24 and 25, and the meeting of the Advisory
Council for Science and Engineering, October 8 and 9,
have produced a number of extremely valuable sugges-
tions that reflect the wisdom and interest of these out-
standing businessmen and industrialists. The Bishop
O’Hara Seminar Lectures are now in progress, bringing
some of the leading experts from the world of business
to lecture to the seniors of the College of Commerce.
Other equally helpful programs will follow as a result of
the interest of the Advisory Council.
•WM
the
The Author
The first Paul Mallon column appeared
when he was 31—on April 11, 1932, in 60
newspapers. At present, Mr. Mallon is writ-
ing a book on international politics.
Paul Mallon needs no introduction to
most readers. His Capitol Hill column from
Washington, "News Behind the News,” was
carried daily for years in 300 newspapers
from coast to coast.


Notre Dame is proud to claim a share in
the early education of Paul Mallon. That
Mr. Mallon is proud of Notre Dame is at-
tested by his present posts as Director of
the Notre Dame Alumni Association and
co-chairman for the Notre Dame Founda-
tion Committee in Washington.
His first newspaper job was with the
Louisville "Courier-Journal.” While there,
he found time to attend the University of
Louisville for a year. He then moved to the
South Bend "News-Times” and attended
the University of Notre Dame. After a year
of trying to work until 3 a. m. and attend
classes at 9 a. m., he jumped at the offer
of a job with the Brooklyn "Eagle.”
In 1922, while working for the United
Press, Mallon covered the Washington dis-
armament conference, called by President
Harding. He requested and received perma-
nent assignment in Washington, and soon
advanced to chief of U. P.’s Capital staff.
In 1929 he was mentioned for the Pulitzer
Prize.
Sword of the Spirit
By PAUL UALLOX
rpiME changes opinions- sometimes. Events
lure us from established' convictions. We
like to think we are liberal and open-mind-
ed, and we strive to keep pace ..with^the
march of progress by searching out the ’ever-
new circumstances the world presents and
adjusting our minds to them. Furthermore,
the nature of the human in us is always
seeking relaxation, ease—and peace. - (We
yearn for an ;.end ,of toil .and strife; and}
when involved in ardous ventures/We ..Have
an inclination to let up, or look forward to'
the moment when we can let up.
All this may sound rather' commonplace;
but, if either of„ these two natural courses
is allowed to run its way in the current
world struggle, we^are lost—our people, our
nation, our world?6'
The critical hour for us at Pearl Harbor
was the hour we did not consider, the ’hour ■
before the Japanese struck, the hour in
which we could have saved ourselves by prep-
aration. This hour today is such an hour for
an entire world. The critical danger con-
fronting us is that, in the rush and flow of
our normal lives, we will forget—as people
do—the nature of the thing with which we
are confronted. We may lapse into the belief
that This Thing is normal and susceptible to
the same human instincts we have, the love
of agreement, the worship of progress, the
respect of justice and the belief in peace.
Facts grow cold, you know, unless constantly
stimulated. Doctrines debilitate unless car-
ried as banners.
To guard against a natural decline in our
political doctrines, it is essential that each
one of us undersrand the nature of This
Thing with which we are confronted. In a
struggle to maintain the world intellect, we
are daily meeting subtle lures and challenges.
To meet these we must never foi' a moment
lay down the Sword of the Spirit, which
defends true knowledge of the character of
the lure and challenge.
What I mean can be made plain by citing
a now well-known incident: in the final days
of the first Truman administration, Presi-
dent Truman, with all his knowledge of the
subject, thought it would be an excellent
campaign gesture for him to send the Chief
Justice of the United States Supreme Court
to show—as he said—oui’ “seriousness and
sincerity” in favor of an understanding to
restore order in Berlin. In the ordinary
course of normal negotiations between na-
tions, this would seem harmless—a move of
simple earnestness, the dispatch of our Chief
Justice to seek fair justice. What danger
could there be in that?
To many informed in various degrees con-
cerning the brutal efforts of the Russians to
defeat all contrary interests in Berlin, the
project could have sounded innocent. The
Democrats among us could easily, and no
doubt did, deduce that the Republicans
clamored about the matter for partisan po-
litical effect (which they. no ’ doubt had in
.. mind ) - and thus some of us ‘may have been
misled as to the unsound nature of the Ven-
ture. „ >
Mr. Truman’s plan was innocent in but
one: respect: it was completely innocent of
ah understanding of Russianism, Commun-
ism or whateyer This Thing may properly ’
be called. - -	-
, .They, character of This, Thing may, per-
/ (haps, be understood by: An incident which
^occurred in a little place where I spent some
. time this summer. I have recently made a
longer study of its motivating power, but
this one incident conveys spmeyof the ac-
curate implications of what -lies so .heavily
against.,us. In this village w^(.‘a fisherman
who went off alone in his boat each day to '
tong clams from, the bottom of the bay.
When a friend off mine missed a new five-
pound navy anchor which had been spliced
to his rowboat, he asked around among the
villagers.
One told him:
“You know that fisherman who is always
working down < in the cove. -’His name is
Charles. Go ask* Charles.”
My friend could pry no explanation from
his advisor. His personal inclination was to
seek out the police. Yet, perhaps the clam
tonger had seen children cut away the an-
chor while working on his boat? My friend
went down to the cove and found Charles
assidously cleaning his craft.
“Charles,” he called. “Have you seen my
new anchor?”
His ears jumped in surprise when Charles
immediately called back:
“Certainly, I think I have it right here
somewhere. Let’s take a look.”
The fisherman, pleasantly, opened the
floor boards at the bottom of his boat and
started rummaging among an assortment of
new anchors, ropes and boat accessories
which had no useful place on his small
motorboat. Handling them as a merchant
displays his wares, he brought forth one and
said:
“I think this is yours.”
It was—new rope and all, even the por-
tion which had been cut.
My friend did not know exactly how to
handle this situation. He was not sure what
could best be said under the circumstances.
So he said:
“Why, thank you, Charles, thank you very
much,” and went off to attach his anchor
back to his rowboat.
Inquiry among the villagers developed a
further knowledge of the working philoso-
phy of Charles. One explained:
“If he sees anything he likes, he just takes
it.”
He need have no normal motive, they
said, such as a use for the stolen article or
a desire to enrich himself. He was com-
pletely free of normal reactions in this re-
spect. He had no inhibitions whatever
against thievery. Whenever anything was
missing around the cove, the villagers never
reported the loss to the single village con-
stable, but first asked Charles; and, usually,
from the bottom of his boat, he brought
forth proudly the missing article.
This Thing with which we are confronted
in the world is, in moral essence, an inter-
national Charles. It would be considered
idiotic if the village had appointed a Select-
man to see Charles and. impress him with
the “seriousness and. sincerity” of the com-
munity. In treating with Russia we have
found that the summoning of an interna-
tional court, committee or police force is
generally useless. We have found that serious
discussions of the nature of conditions leads
to involvement in degenerating arguments
and finally achieves only a sense of futility
in, us. We have found none of the normal —
reactions from the normal- use of diplomatic
■^measures. Efforts to settle are interpreted
by Russia as designs to conquer her, and
therefore do not settle, but antagonize. Our
strivings for disarmament, and for atomic
control; are treated by the Russians as a dip-
lomatic game to be frustrated. Disarmament
becomes in the relentless view of the Krem-
lin a problem of how to disarm us, while
Stalin may achieve more and more arma-
ment unknown to us behind his Iron Cur-
tain.
We have learned we are dealing with an
adversary which lacks nearly all our normal
concepts. In this experience, we are rapidly
approaching, if we have not already passed,
an inevitable conclusion that moral suasion
has no use.
Does this mean war must be fought? It
should not. I think war would be a stupid
conclusion of a difficult situation, like that
of a novelist who has his hero commit sui-
cide at the end of the book because he, the
novelist, cannot solve the difficulties other-
wise. War would he a confession of our
diplomatic ineptitude. To me an American
War against the Russians would be almost
as senseless as if the villagers in my summer
seaport town had declared war on the type-
that-is-Charles, and armed themselves with
sticks and stones to kill him.
Russia is a condition, a situation. It must
be met. We must meet it effectively in ways
which are more efficient for us. Our current
ways and course are not, necessarily, perma-
nently to be considered the best ways. We
are spending a third or more of our entire
national budget for armament—$12 to $15
billions annually. We have foolishly blunder-
ed into a condition in the Gearman peace
whereby we must spend needed millions
needlessly for planes to feed and warm our
portion of Berlin by air. In meeting the
(Continued on page 26)
Vol. 2
No. 1
7
I
TROUBLED CALM BEFORE THE STORM—N. D. Copt. Bill Fischer and Purdue Capf. Phil O Redly shake hards
before the 28-27 classic of Sept. 25. The record crowd of 59,343 surpassed the former mark by 172 ‘Army, 47]
MUSIC HATH CHARM TO SOOTHE THE SAVAGE BEAST —and the HO-piece Notre Dame bora did i*s des'
at half-time to add assurance ‘o a mere 12-7 lead.
THE HEADLINE HELICOPTER—that’s
what one of
in which they seemed literally to “hover" over
the 300 sports writers and broadcasters called the press box,
the game. Knute Rockne, as good at public relations as at
maries, including substitutions and running scores, are available for writers 60 seconds after the final
gun.
Women not permitted — probably never will
be. It's an
old rule.
coaching, wanted best possible press facilities when the stadium was built in 1930. A snack bar dispensed
hotdogs, coffee and cokes. Every other seat is equipped with telegraph. There are 10 radio booths and
open camera platforms on the roof and an inside "photographers’ shelf" for newsreels, television, public
address system and assistant coaches with 'phones to the field. Charles M. Callahan, Notre Dame '38, As-
sistant Director of Public Information Department, capably handles all press box routine. Mimeographed sum-
If
*
Some Answers
to Basie Questions
About the University
In the following article, Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,
C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, answers questions
concerning the University’s financial position and
policies—questions propounded by Alumni and non-
Alumni friends since organization of the Notre Dame
Foundation more than a year ago.
What Is the University’s
Financial Situation?
THE total net surplus, covering the years
1941-45, was $113,000. This money was
used for the construction of new labora-
tories and particularly for the erection of
the building housing the Department of
Aeronautical Engineering. In 1945-’46, the
total income of the University, exclusive of
unrestricted gifts and unexpended restricted
gifts, exceeded total expenses by $ 162,997.16;
this was applied toward the construction of
Farley Hall, student residence building. Un-
restricted contributions equaling $175,000
are being assigned to University endowment.
The total income of the University, ex-
clusive of unrestricted gifts and unexpended
restricted gifts, in 1946-47, exceeded total
expenses by $305,927.77; this was used prin-
cipally toward establishment of the pension
and retirement plan for the teaching staff.
Unrestricted contributions approximated
$150,000; of this, $75,000 is being placed in
the fund for the new Science building.
In 1947-’48, the University’s total income,
exclusive of unrestricted gifts and unexpend-
ed restricted gifts, resulted in a net loss of
$38,136.41. This was explained by the very
heavy expenses incurred in expansion of the
Graduate School and Research programs.
Unrestricted contributions amounting to
$275,816.24 are being added to the building
fund for the construction of the new Science
building.
What Is the University’s
Enrollment Policy?
It has been determined that Notre Dame
will maintain an enrollment of 4,500. About
10% of the total enrollment will be in the
College of Law; another 10% will be in the
Graduate School and research projects. The
continuing flood of applications for admis-
sion indicates that, even without the benefit
of the G.I. Bill, the University will be able
to maintain a quality selection of applicants
at an enrollment of 4,500. The present criti-
cal times demand strong, well-trained lead-
ers. Notre Dame feels a distinct responsibility
to the nation in helping to provide that
leadership. This will impose very serious ob-
ligations on the University to expand its
present facilities; it will impose upon the
University a period of severe financial stress.
Bou? Great Is Football
Revenue?
There is a rather common misconception
that Notre Dame has become a wealthy
school through football revenue. The actual
fact is that football has not eliminated the
need of any ether support; it has provided
less than 10% of the University’s income.
In 1946-’47, a year of national champion-
ship football, the total net income from all
athletics was $196,000. In 1947-’48, the net
income was $185,466.
The gross income from football for the
past several years has been approximately
$500,000. This is used to support all athletic
teams engaged in intercollegiate competition,
the inter-hall athletic program and, obvi-
ously, the maintenance of the stadium and
athletic properties.
In number of dollars, the net income at
present is approximately the same as it has
been for many years. In terms of building
power: in the early 1930’s, when Notre
Dame’s greatest building expansion occur-
red, a net income of $195,000 would con-
struct one-half of a residence hall. Now, it
will build about one-fourth of the same
residence hall.
Actually, none of the income from foot-
ball has in recent years (1935 to 1945) been
put into a building fund; it has been needed
to help pay for the University’s operating
expenses. The entire amount has been used
in research projects and for the Graduate
School.
What Buildiny Expansion
Is Planned?
(a)	The first building to be erected will
be a Science Unit north of and adjoining
the Chemistry Building (see President’s
Page). The cost will be approximately
$1,750,000.
This building represents the most critical
need of Notre Dame. Laboratory space for
undergraduates in Chemistry is seriously
needed. Research projects have been cur-
tailed for lack of laboratory space. The
classroom situation is stringent and intoler-
able. Moreover, well over a million dollars’
worth of equipment—a great part of which
was obtained from war surplus at nominal
cost—is being housed precariously in the
old Science Building, with the constant
threat of a destructive fire. In spite of the
insurance coverage, if it were lost the Uni-
versity would not be able to replace it ex-
cept at a fabulous expenditure. Our plan
to continue using the old facilities of Chem-
istry Hall will make the cost about
$1,500,000 less than if new buildings were
erected.
Other buildings planned for erection,
when funds permit, are:
(b)	Guest-house with accommodations
for 150 visitors. The cost will approximate
12
'Notre Oamc
$500,000. It will be used to house Alumni
and other guests of the University, the par-
ents of students who are visiting their sons,
and meetings of special groups such as the
Trustees’ Board and Advisory Councils.
(c)	Maintenance building, which will
cost approximate’/ $400,0001 It is believed
that this building will pay for itself by vir-
tue of savings through economic operation.
(d)	Auditorium to provide facilities for
lectures, concerts and assemblies, in which
the entire student body, faculty and friends
can be accommodated. Architectural designs
may be successfully worked out so that the
Auditorium can be combined with the field-
house. Approximate cost will be $2,000,000.
(e)	Library at a cost of $2,000,000.
(f)	Group of five residence halls to house
1,000 students. Each building would approx-
imate $750,000. At present there are more
than 1,000 students living off-campus.
(g)	Student Union which will cost ap-
proximately $1,500,000.
(h)	Liberal and Fine Arts Building,
which would include classrooms, facilities
for radio and television, offices and seminar
rooms. Estimated cost would be $3,500,000.
What Is the University^
Endowment?
Notre Dame’s total endowment is
$3,891,638.50. Of this, unrestricted endow-
ment amounts to $1,010,300, while restricted
endowment equals $2,881,338.50. Restricted
endowment is designated for a specific pur-
pose by the donpr, while unrestricted en-
dowment may be applied in support of any
of the University’s operations.
What Is the
Endowment Need?
To release the returns from auxiliary op-
erations for development of plant facilities—
as they were used in the past—Notre Dame
would need an additional endowment of
$12,000,000. It is our hope that our highly
significant research can be extended, par-
ticularly in the fields of philosophy, mediae-
val studies, sociology, economics, interna-
tional politics and several other branches of
learning. The program envisaged would re-
quire an annual income of $500,000. At
present rates of return, this would require
an endowment of about $20,000,000.
The total endowment, therefore, needed
to accomplish present plans, amounts to
some $32,000,000.
Is the Foundation the
Work of One Department
or of the Entire University?
Although the Foundation staff constitutes
one department, the Foundation work is an
all-University project. It is seeking aid for
all departments, and it works in collabora-
tion with all.
Has the Alumni Fund
Been Eliminated?
All contributions by Alumni constitute the
Annual Alumni Fund. Gifts of Notre Dame’s
non-Alumni friends are added to this to
constitute the entire Foundation contribu-
tions.
What Is the University
Policy Reyardiny
Race and Reliyion?
Notre Dame adheres to a policy of non-
discrimination. We have no quotas on non-
Catholic students or students of any race.
Since Notre Dame is a Catholic school such
non-discrimination should be taken for
granted.
Miscellaneous
The University would be willing to use
general unrestricted funds to match a major
contribution toward a building or School,
and would be glad to name the building or
School after a major contributor.
There is always a desirable means of at-
taching a donor’s name to a fund. This is
by the establishment of a “Chair”; the in-
come constitutes the salary of the special
professor. An endowment of $150,000 would
support a Chair for one semester each year.
The progress of the Graduate School has
been highly satisfactory. It has already ac-
complished noteworthy discoveries and
achievements. A few of these are: experi-
ments with germ-free life in the Laboratories
of Bacteriology; the work in medicinal
chemistry, especially on anti-malarial drugs
and the Rh factor in human blood in the
Department of Chemistry; development of
synthetic rubber and allied products; de-
velopments in metals designed to resist super-
sonic speeds, in the Department of Metal-
lurgy.
Any funds given to Notre Dame specific-
ally go to the University, and will not be
diverted for other purposes.
Starzel Appointed to
Associated Press Position
Frank J. Starzel, a former Notre Dame
student, has been appointed General Man-
ager of the Associated Press.
During the period he spent at Notre
Dame, from September, 1921, to June,
1922, Mr. Starzel was an honor student
academically, with a general scholastic av-
erage of nearly 94%, and also played
freshman and interhall football. A native
of Iowa, he left Notre Dame at the end of
his freshman year to study law at the Uni-
versity of Iowa.
Mr. Starzel, in turn, left Iowa to become
a newspaperman. After working on papers
in Iowa City and Des Moines, la., Bloom-
ington, Ill., and Chicago, he joined the
Associated Press in 1929. He is an Epis-
copalian.
Adams Given Award
By Trade Union
John Quincy Adams, a graduate of the
University of Notre Dame, who now is
president of the Manhattan Refrigerator
Company and of the Union Terminal Cold
Storage Company of New York, has been
awarded the first Quadragesimo Anno
Medal by the Association of Catholic Trade
Unionists.
Mr. Adams, a resident of Montclair, N. J.,
is founder and first president of the Catho-
lic Institute of the Food Industry, an or-
ganization to promote Catholic social prin-
ciples in industry. He was graduated from
Notre Dame in 1926.
Officials of the Association of Catholic
Trade Unionists said the medal to the Notre
Dame graduate marked one of the few
times in the history of organized labor in
the United States that an employer had
received an award from workers. The
medal will be awarded annually to “an in-
dividual who makes an outstanding contri-
bution to the Christian solution of indus-
trial problems.”
Guest Lecturers to
Appear at University
Four outstanding scholars in the history
and tradition of mediaeval culture will de-
liver the 1948-49 guest lecture series at the
Mediaeval Institute of the University of
Notre Dame, it was announced yesterday by
the Rev. Gerald B. Phelan, director of the
Institute.
The four lecturers, according to Father
Phelan, will be Dr. Urban T. Holmes, Jr.,
professor of romance philology at the Uni-
versiy of North Carolina; Dr. Stephan Kutt-
ner, professor of canon law at the Catholic
University of America, Washington, D. C.;
Dr. Gaines Post, professor of history at the
University of Wisconsin; and the Rev.
George B. Flahiff, G.S.B., professor of his-
tory at the Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval
Studies in Toronto.
Dr. Holmes will open the series with five
lectures from Dec. 13 to 17 on the subject,
“With Alexander Neckham in London and
Paris; English and French Civilization in
the Second Half of the Twelfth Century.”
Dr. Kuttner will speak from Jan. 17 to 21
on “Mediaeval History: The Importance
and Influence of Canonical Concepts in the
History of the Middle Ages.”
On Feb. 14, 16, 17 and 18, Dr. Post
will discuss “Roman and Canon Law and
Political Representation in the Thirteenth
Century.” Father Flahiff will close the
series when he speaks on “The English
Critics on Civilization in the Late Twelfth
Century” from March 21 to 25.
The Mediaeval Institute of the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame was founded in 1946 to
study the culture of the middle ages and
its influence on the present day. It is the
• only such institution in the United States.
Vol. 2
No. 1
13
WHEN GREAT-GRANDFATHER
WAS A FRESHMAN
The following student regulations are excerpted from the
Twenty-Second Annual Catalogue of the University of
Notre Dame for the academic year, 1864-'65:
In Winter, on Saturday, at 4 o'clock P. M., the stu-
dents must wash their feet. In Summer, this regula-
tion is rendered unnecessary by the rule which re-
quires the students to bathe in common twice a week
in St. Joseph's Lake.
Those students who read sufficiently well and aud-
ibly . . . will read for one day ... at dinner and
supper. At the end of each meal, any student is
liable to be called upon to give an account of what
he has heard read.
Every month, all the students must write to their
parents or guardians, and have their letters corrected
by the Secretary of the Faculty previous to their being
mailed. All letters sent or received may be opened
by the President or Vice-President.
No one shall keep in his possession any money,
except what he receives weekly from the Treasurer
on Wednesday at TO o'clock A.M.
Whether in class or in recreation, when permitted
to converse at table, or during their walks, students
should endeavor to improve the purity of their lan-
guage and cultivate urbanity of manners. A few
years in college would be profitably employed if
nothing else were learned but to converse and be-
have with the dignity and propriety of gentlemen.
The time of recreation excepted, silence must be
inviolably observed in all places.
The use of tobacco is forbidden.
Third in a series of articles on the history of
the University of Notre Dame (adapted from
NOTRE DAME, ONE HUNDRED YEARS,
by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.)
TN 1860, before the War Between the
States, there was a young priest at Notre
Dame whose knack for getting impossible
things done in a hurry was of the first
order. It was so pronounced that more
and more of the promotional type of work
— particularly the sort involving the ma-
terial upbuilding of the university — was
heaped upon his shoulders.
In 1865, the Notre Dame council, faced
with the twin problem of (1) appointing a
new president and (2) appointing one
qualified to shoulder responsibility for su-
pervision of one of the biggest building
projects ever undertaken by the school,
tagged dynamic Father Patrick Dillon for
the billet.
For Notre Dame, the building was a
gigantic undertaking. It was to be 160
feet long, six stories high. It had to be
built — a steadily growing student enroll-
ment demanded new quarters.
Father Dillon reviewed the plans, took
a sounding of the school treasury (it was
very shallow) and went to work. He drew
heavily upon local talent: most of the car-
penters, teamsters, stone-cutters, brick-ma-
sons and plasterers were Holy Cross Broth-
ers. There were no union hours. There
was no time-and-a-half for overtime. The
new building, completed down to the last
nail in that same year—1865 — cost only
$35,500.
Until 1865, Notre Dame’s curricula con-
sisted only of courses coming under the
general heading of Arts and Letters.
As part of his expansion program, Father
Dillon organized two new Departments —
a Commercial Course of two years, to meet
an increasing demand by students for busi-
ness training, and a Scientific Course. It
was only a few years later, in old Science
Hall, that Student (and subsequently Notre
14
Notre Damn
the Ws and ’70’s
at Notre Dame
IT WAS AX I KA OF EXPANSION • XAPOLEOX S
TELESCOPE • AND THE OLD-FASHIONED GAME
OF FOOTBALL PLAYED IN "INNINGS” FOB APPLES
Dame Professor) Albert F. Zahm began the
series of aeronautical experiments which
brought him international fame — and fame
to the university as a birthplace of modern
aeronautical science.
Father Sorin — founder, first president
and Provincial of the University after 1865
—.was meanwhile destined for another high
honor. Attending a general chapter of the
Congregation of Holy Cross at Rome in
1868, he was elected Superior-General of
the Congregation. His election placed the
care of the entire community throughout
the world upon his shoulders, and necessi-
tated frequent trips to Europe. The rec-
ords show that, between 1841 and the time
of his death in 1893, Father Sorin made
over 50 ocean voyages.
Another traveling priest, Father Joseph
Carrier, brought largess to the campus from
France in 1866 — a handsome telescope
over seven feet long, presented to Notre
Dame by Napoleon III. It was valued at
25,000 francs. A portable stand under a
revolving roof 18 feet in diameter was built
for the telescope, and an observatory erected
to house it.
Not long afterwards, a second telescope,
smaller than the one presented by the
French king, was procured from Solomons
in Dublin. It was kept in the University
parlor.
With the two telescopes as go-betweens,
Professor Arthur Stace was able to give his
astronomy students a quite creditable intro-
duction to the stars.
Student attendance was still on the up-
grade in 1868. It had been 218 in 1859 —
386 in 1863. Now, the enrollment was
pushing 500. And the faculty numbered
close to 50.
In 1869, Notre Dame opened its law
school, comprised of four professors, and in
the following year launched plans for the
present church of Our Lady of the Sacred
Heart. The cornerstone for the church was
laid on May 31, 1871.
Luigi Gregori, the eminent artist whom
Father Sorin met while in Rome, was en-
gaged to do the painting for the interior
—’reproduced on the cover of the October
issue of Notre Dame. The high altar for
the church was built in the studio of Froc
Robert in Paris, and the windows were
designed by the Carmelites of Le Mans.
Ten years were required to complete the
church; but, upon completion, it was cred-
ited with being “the liveliest thing on the
campus.”
Notre Dame acquired a new president in
1872 — the Rev. Auguste Lemonnier, cousin
of Father Sorin. He had come from France
to Notre Dame in 1860, yielding to Father
Sorin’s persuasive argument (Father Sorin
was always on the lookout for campus re-
inforcements) that nowhere else in the
world could the young priest be of greater
service than at the University.
It was while serving as vice-president, in
1868, that Father Lemonnier suggested that
the organization of Notre Dame’s alumni
might prove beneficial both to the Univer-
sity and to former students. Father Neal
Gillespie, the school’s first graduate, was
promptly elected the first president of the
Alumni Association.
To Father Lemonnier, too, goes the
credit for establishment of a “circulating
library” from which students might borrow
books for supplementary reading. The lack
of any reference texts for students prior
to this time was partly because of the
school’s ever-slim budget, and partly due
to a strong belief by several of the influen-
tial priests that the student who really mas-
tered the contents of one textbook was doing
better than well.
The untimely death of Father Lemonnier
in 1874 precipitated the appointment of a
new president — Father Patrick J. Golovin.
It was the year in which the clouds of the
postwar depression began to gather. In two-
years, student enrollment was falling off. At
Commencement in 1876, only five M.A.’s^
two M.S.’s, four B.A.’s, six B.S.’s, four
medical certificates and 18 commercial di-
plomas were conferred.
But there were always good times on the
campus. For example, one Fall day in
1868, when the weather was too inclement
for baseball — the favorite school sport at
that time — the boys got together for “one
of the old-fashioned games of football.”
There were 42 boys on each team. The
prize was to be two barrels of apples, and
both sides were out to win.
They played “innings” instead of quarters
as in present-day football. Each “inning”
lasted until the ball had been borne across
the goal. After several hours’ tussling, four
“innings” had been played and the score
was even. The students wanted to play off
the tie, but the umpire decided the game
was over and awarded a barrel of apples
to each team.
Father Sorin, though no longer president
or provincial, still exercised top authority
at Notre Dame. There were a number of
matters on which the school’s founder did
not see eye to eye with Father Golovin.
In August, 1877, Notre Dame acquired
as head man a faculty member who had
for a short time previously served in the
presidential chair — Father Corby.
Two years later, on the morning of April
23, 1879, a fire was reported. It was only
a small fire when first detected. The school
rallied swiftly to the alarm. But Notre
Dame was destined, before the day was
through, to be almost completely wiped out.
(To be continued)
Vol. 2
No. I
IS
cij c o‘: 'c o' S' Ter^ o (?7'h Cen*^.ry py rj fo^o^er of Guido Reni, fou''c< Lenejfh a scaped-
&Oin,ing o' S' Ro^e o* Limo
10
.V o t re Dame
Our
Masterpieces
T”-' Poo o' ’o T	’j’- ’■'O.j o "
“Madonna and Saints/' altar piece painted between 1385 and 1392 by an unknown Italian artist and hung
in St. Bridget's home, now a chapel, in which she died in Rome in 1373. In 1864, Pope Pius IX gave this
house to the Congregation of the Holy Cross, and they brought the altar piece from France to America
after founding Notre Dame.
A corner of the Wickett Room. The large tapestry was woven in England between 1619 and 1720 by the
Mortlake factory, noted for its superb work and established by King Charles to compete with the tapestries
of France and Belgium. The wood carving in the corner includes the figures of St. Ann, the Blessed Virgin
and the Christ Child. The wood figure under glass is of St. Michael.
*
One of several paintings in
landscapers represented in
(1586-1659), Claude Vernet
r
A corner of a room in the Wightman Gallery. Canvas above white chest is Jacek Malczewski's "Death of a
Polish Exile." A casual stroll through the rooms of the gallery will reveal such outstanding paintings and
drawings as "Self Portrait and Landscape" by Rubens, "The Madonna of the Oak" by Francesco Penni and
works of the 17th-Century Spanish artist, Murillo.
the gallery by John Constable (1776-1837), famous English landscape artist. Other
the Wightman Gallery include Nicholas Poussin (1594-1666), Jacques Fouquieres
(1714-1789), Salvator Rosa (1615-1673) and Philip Roos (1655-1705).

“Crucifixion,” by Anthony Van Dyke (1599-1641). In July, 1632,
A portrait of Archbishop Patrick Riordan of San Francisco by	Van Dyke was knighted	by King Charles	I and	appointed court
George P. A. Healy (1808-1894), painter of Pius IX, Lincoln, Grant,	painter. He painted 36	portraits of the	King and 25 of	Queen
Cardinal McCloskey, Louis Philippe, Webster, Calhoun, Hawthorne,	Henrietta Maria, as well	as a number of superbly	executed	studies
Prescott, Longfellow, Cardinal Gibbons, Liszt and many others.	of the children of the royal family.
N.H. Debate Teams Are
National Champs, Too
By LEONARD F. SOMMER
'^TOTRE Dame, because it produces good
’ football teams, often, suffers from that
very fact.
To many, Notre Dame is just a good
“athletic school.” Those who make the
charges, however, overlook the whole phil-
osophy of Christian education. The Uni-
versity strives to educate the “whole man.”
The student’s body is only one third of the
job. His mind must be trained and his soul
must be taught to adore God—else the Uni-
versity has failed in its purpose. To say that
Notre Dame is merely a good “athletic
school” ignores the education the Univer-
sity gives the other faculties of the indi-
vidual student. It ignores the record of No-
tre Dame men.
In aiding the student to train his mind,
Notre Dame offers to every student the op-
portunity of joining the debate team. Much
the same as Notre Dame plays football, the
University annually fields a debate team.
Both football and debate have purposes for
functioning, the chief of which is education.
Each attempts to train a part of the whole
man—each in a different way. In a well bal-
anced university they should complement
one another. At Notre Dame they do.
Winning debate teams have long been tra-
ditional at Notre Dame. Largely under the
expert coaching of the Rev. William Bolger,
C.S.C., the Irish won 83 per cent of their
debates from 1904 to 1924. Father Bolger
was as capable in forensic activities as
Rockne V/as in athletics. In 1938, Professor
William J. Coyne tutored the debate team
to 23 victories in 32 meets.
This year over sixty boys reported for
the debate team when the first practice ses-
sion was called.' It is necessary to begin
practice early in the school year. Usually the
second week after classes begin sees the
start of debate practice. There is a great
deal of research to be done by the individual
debaters. Cases must be constructed and
facts must be assimilated. Once the season
has begun, it lasts until the last month of
the school year. The Debate Club meets
every Monday and Wednesday afternoon for
approximately two hours of work. It is the
opinion of the debate coach that only
through extensive reading can a debater ever
hope to hold his own on the platform in
the face of strange cases and styles.
The present debate program at Notre
Dame was instituted four years ago. Debate
had been curtailed during the war, and it
was necessary to re-vitalize the team and
make it truly “representative.” It had been
a policy of the University to debate indi-
vidual universities and colleges on a home-
and-home basis. But in 1945 and 1946, the
debate teams participated in more than eight
tournaments and 120 debates. This was the
beginning of a new era of debate at Notre
Dome.
With the advent of that new era came
new trophies—trophies won by Notre Dame
men participating in the intellectual game of
debate. During the 1947-’48 year a Notre
Dame speaker was awarded the Watchel
Plaque signifying the National Champion-
ship in Discussion. This plaque is awarded
annually to one speaker who is judged best
in the national discussion tournament held
by Tau Kappa Alpha, a national speech
group. The same year, the Notre Dame de-
bate team was rated one of the three best
teams in the United States by judges at the
national debate tournament held annually
at West Point, New York.
The next year, Notre Dame debaters con-
tinued their winning ways. At the Iowa Uni-
versity Invitational Tournament, at the Pur-
due Invitational Debate Tournament and at
the Eau Claire State Teachers College Invi-
tational Tournament, Notre Dame debaters
finished in first place. At the Boston Uni-
versity Invitational Debate Tournament, No-
tre Dame was ranked as one of the three
top teams in attendance. These tournaments
usually have from 20 to 30 universities and
colleges in attendance. Later in the year,
Notre Dame once again ranked as one of
the top ten among entrants in discussion at
the Tau Kappa Alpha National Discussion
Tournament. The Irish won 70 out of 85
debates in 1947-48.
It is hoped that these victories may be
renewed and surpassed this year. With the
Frank Finn, Denison (Tex.) senior, receiving Watchel Award for winning
National Championship in Discussion. The author is holding the award.
return of five varsity debaters (Frank Finn,
Bill Carey, Tom Ninneman, Quin Marlow
and Joe Shelley) the squad is anticipating
Notre Dame’s best season. Nor is material
lacking in the ranks of Freshmen debaters.
Good material is found in such beginners as
Bill Dempsey, Charles Fahy, Robert Wolf,
Dave Wilmot, Paul Wells, Howard Phillips,
Malham Wakin, Harold Cahalan, Maurice
Carrol, Lee Sheridan, Kenny Hoelser, Bill
Rich, Austin Hogan, Frank Haendler, John
Gallagher, Kenyon Snyder and David Ma-
thews.
This year’s debate team will travel to dis-
tant points debating this season’s national
debate topic: Resolved: The Federal Gov-
ernment Should Adopt a Policy of Equaliz-
ing Educational Opportunities in Tax Sup-
ported Schools by Means of Annual Grants.
Iowa City; Lincoln, Neb.; Detroit; Pitts-
burgh; Saint Paul; Eau Claire, Wis.; Bos-
ton, and West Point are stops on a large
and extensive schedule.
Notre Dame makes no apologies for hav-
ing winning football teams. Football has its
place in the scheme of education. Nor does
Notre Dame apologize for its debate team.
It too has its place in education. To be edu-
cated, a man must be able to play the game
of life with sportsmanship. This is taught
in physical education classes. To be educat-
ed, a man must be able to play the game of
life with precision—analyzing, questioning ;
and concluding correctly. This is taught in
Debate. Christian education is the educa-
tion of the whole man. It is Notre Dame’s ,
purpose to educate the whole man—soul,	J
mind and body.	I

The Earth
is Their Oyster
By JAMES J. KEOCKENKEMPER
Profitable Careers in Oil, Stones and
Kodachromes, Are Beckoning Students in
Notre Dame’s New Department of Geology
Dr. A. J. MacAlpin and group of students examining reef oil reservoir
rocks typical of Michigan, Indiana, and Illinois petroleum structures.
A NY young man who really wants a ca-
reer full of opportunities to trek over
trackless desert wastes, hack through steam-
ing jungles, climb to the dizzy reaches of
perilous peaks or plumb the ocean depths
is being summoned today by the field of
geology.
Many such young men are wanted—and
needed!
Only from 500 to 600 geologists are being
graduated each year from American col-
leges and universities—and oil companies
alone want 5,000 geologists for field work.
Courses in geology were initially intro-
duced to Notre Dame more than 25 years
ago by Dr. Knowles B. Smith in the Depart-
ment of Mining Engineering. In addition
to training students for mining operations,
this department also offered basic instruction
in economic geology. The basement of old
Chemistry Hall included geological and min-
ing laboratories.
The Department of Geology appeared for
the first time in the Notre Dame College of
Science Bulletin in the September, 1948,
edition. Dr. Archie J. MacAlpin, Depart-
ment head, Dr. Raymond Gutschick, and
Dr. Erhard Winkler, his associates, have
pointed the new Department principally in
the direction of training its students for oil
exploration. The oil companies are sending
young geologists into nearly every part of
the world for that purpose.
But, even apart from the great demand
for new geologists in that field, the horizons
before the young graduate in geology are
virtually unlimited. He may have a future
in nearly any kind of mining; he may be-
come a soil expert for the government or
a topographical and geological map-maker;
he may join scientific exploration parties to
map and evaluate newly discovered areas;
he may help paleontologists and archaeolo-
gists trace the paths of ancient history.
Spurred by the vision of romantic futures,
130 students were enrolled in undergraduate
geology courses during the 1947-’48 school
year. Only six were then listed as geology
majors, but fifteen of the others transferred
to geology as a major in the Fall of 1948.
In illustrating the great demand for men
with even a small amount of such train-
ing, Dr. Gutschick tells of two physical sci-
ence students who decided in the course of
their senior year to take just nine hours in
geology. Upon graduation in January, 1948,
both were hired by the oil industry as field
geologists.
It was a tremendous task to build the
present, full-fledged physical science depart-
ment in two years. Dr. MacAlpin gives most
of the credit to the help and co-operation
of the University; but without his indus-
try, the Department could not have been
equipped, as it was, almost from scratch.
Dr. MacAlpin came to Notre Dame in
September, 1946, at the request of the Rev.
Howard Kenna, C.S.C., Director of Studies,
as a part of the University’s science expan-
sion program. He started with the rem-
nants of a library and a few rock specimens
inherited from the old experimental Depart-
ment of Mining Engineering founded in
1908 and later abandoned.
Throughout his first year, Dr. MacAlpin
not only taught but reorganized the mineral
specimens on hand and traded for other
specimens with schools in many states and
foreign nations. He made lists of books and
maps to be purchased. He wanted movies
and at least 1,000 kodachrome slides of
earth structures. He also needed many glass
plates picturing rock samples and structures.
And he was alone until Dr. Gutschick and
Dr. Winkler joined the faculty in Septem-
ber, 1948, enabling official foundation of
the new Department of undergraduate stu-
dents as major.
Many of the Department’s goals have
been reached. All it needs now is room for
the equipment. But additional quarters in
the Main Building, and others which may
be available upon completion of the con-
templated Science Building, will do much to
make more space available for the thousands
of mineral specimens, maps, books, labora-
tory tables, instruments, etc.
The goal of 1,000 kodachrome slides has
been exceeded by several hundreds and four
full-length movies now are on hand. A pet-
rographic microscope valued at $2,000 re-
cently was given to the University and allot-
ted to the Department. Another petrographic
microscope and a binocular microscope are
on order, and books are being added at the
rate of 15 a month.
While hastening to express pleasure at
what the University has done for the De-
partment, its faculty nevertheless reveals
that it has several aims for the future, one
of the most important of which is to found
a summer field camp in the American
Northwest or in Western Canada. There
is some possibility that the University prop-
erty in Northern Wisconsin can be used for
summer field work, but Dr. Gutschick ex-
plains that the midwest is not satisfactory
for student field work because the bed rock
is widely covered with glacial drift.
Two Notre Dame students went to the field
camps of other universities this summer—
one to Wind River, Wyo., where a camp is
jointly supported by four small colleges, and
the other into northern Minnesota and Can-
ada on a six-week canoe trip with a North-
western University group. Field work is, of
course, the best method for teaching map-
ping and for research work, as Dr. Gutschick
points out.
The other hope of the department heads
is that the geology department may some
day have a building in which to carry out
its expansion and widen the field of special-
ized subjects. It is impossible to offer gradu-
ate study in geology until the Department
is lodged in a place where research can be
carried on.
Dr. MacAlpin is very happy with what
has been done, for he is a man who is able
to adjust himself to a situation. When he
entered the University of Michigan in 1925,
he expected to graduate in business -adminis-
tration and enter business. But, while still an
undergraduate, he married; and the depres-
sion of 1929, plus his new responsibility,
forced him to decide to leave school before
graduation.
For “six years he worked in retail advertis-
ing. But when an opportunity came to return
to the University of Michigan, Dr. Mac-
Alpin took it. He studied geology for the
next six years and in 1941 obtained a Ph.D.
He became head of the Department of
Geology of West Texas State College but
in 1943 was drafted into government serv-
ice as a member of the Fuels Investiga-
tion division of the U. S. Geological Survey.
For two years he climbed the mountains of
northern New Mexico and Colorado, getting
information for drawing up more complete
geological maps.' Another purpose of the
trip was to obtain reconnaisance maps to be
used in the search for petroleum.
In 1945, he was transferred to the Bureau
of Reclamation headquarters in Denver. His
work consisted largely in the synthesizing of
information sent in from the field, but he
still had the opportunity for some field work.
“Liaison work,” as he calls it, and says sin-
cerely that he liked his work so much that
he expected to spend the rest of his life in
Denver. But, when the Notre Dame offer
arrived, he felt that as a recent Catholic
convert he could not refuse it; and, with his
wife and three little girls, he took leave of
Denver for a teaching career.
The assistant department head, Dr. Gut-
schick, has a Ph.D. from the University of
Illinois; and, like his superior, he has spent
many years in fieldwork. As a geologist for
the Aluminum Corporation of America, Dr.
Gutschick hiked over most of southern Illi-
nois and Kentucky. Dr. Winkler is a native
of Vienna, Austria, and received his doctor’s
degree from the Technical Institute of
Vienna in 1945. His two fields of special
research and ability are engineering geology
and clay minerals.
A geologist’s work is such that he may
one day be an aerial photographer in the
new science of aerial photogrammetry, and
the next day ride a burro up some Latin
American mountain slope. He may be en-
gaged in underground surveying or oceanog-
raphy. He may be an explosives expert for
a mining company, study volcanoes or earth-
quakes for the government, or do research
into ancient plant and animal growth for
a scientific study.
For, to a geologist, there is literally noth-
ing on earth (or under it) that is not a sub-
ject for study.
Vol. 2
No. 1
23
Ed ‘ Moose" Krause, Coach
1948-'49 SCHEDULE
Dec. 8—Illinois here
11—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium
13—Wisconsin here
20—Pennsvlvania here
22—Naw at Chicago Stadium
27—Purdue at Indianapolis
t Double Header Programi
28—Indiana at Indianapolis
t Double Header Program'
30—Southern Methodist at Dallas
Jan. 3—St. Marv's at San Francisco
11—DePaul here
18—Butler here
22—Denver here
29—Kentucky at Louisville
31—Butler at Indianapolis
Feb. 3—Michigan State here
8—Marquette at Milwaukee
12—St. Louis at St. Louis
16—Marquette here
19—DePaul at Chicago Stadium
23—Michigan State at East Lansing
26—Canisius at Buffalo
28—New York L*. at Madison Square Garden
Mar. 5—Northwestern at Chicago Stadium
7—St.
Louis here
John
Rrennan, Center
Paul Gordon, Guard
Kevin O'Shea, Guard
Basketball
Highlights
By RAYMOND
J. DONOVAN
"DOLSTERED by the return of last sea-
son's entire starting lineup, Coach Ed
Krause has opened practice for one of the
toughest schedules in the history of basket-
ball at Notre Dame.
The Irish quintet, with none of the tra-
ditional “breather" opponents, opens its
1948-'49 card against Illinois on December
8 in the Notre Dame Gym. Before the first
of the year, the Krausemen must face five
opponents from the tough Big Nine confer-
ence—and that's only the beginning.
Features of the 24-game schedule will be
trips to both the east and west coasts. Dur-
ing the Christmas holidays the Irish will
head west to meet Southern Methodist in
Dallas and St. Mary's in San Francisco.
Later in the season, Coach Krause will lead
his quintet to the eastern seaboard, where
the Notre Dame eagers will meet Canisius
in Buffalo and New York University in
Madison Square Garden.
The Irish also will meet such basketball
powerhouses as Northwestern, Wisconsin,
Purdue, Indiana, DePaul, Butler, Denver,
Michigan State, Marquette, St. Louis, Penn-
sylvania, Naty and Kentucky.
Coach Krause was greeted by eight mono-
gram winners from last year’s squad when
practice opened late in October. Only John
(Buster) Hiller and John Goonen were lost
by graduation, but another major loss was
suffered by a transfer. Vince Boryla, all-time
scoring record holder at Notre Dame and
1948 Olympic hoop star, has transferred to
Denver University instead of returning to
Notre Dame as had been anticipated.
The potential starting lineup for the Irish
five looms the same as that which carried
the burden last year when Notre Dame won
17 while losing 7, and included among its
victims such highly-touted teams as
tucky and NYU.
Leo Barnhorst, leading scorer last
and husky rebound expert, likely will
Ken-
year
team
with speedy Jim O’Halloran at the forward
posts. John Brennan, leading scorer two
years ago who was out of action most of
last year with a broken arm, is back at
center. The starting guard positions un-
doubtedly will be manned by defensive stal-
wart Paul Gordon and ambidextrous
dribbler and ballhandler extraordinary Kev-
in O’Shea.
Top flight reserves at this writing include
center John Foley, who took over the reg-
ular center berth last year while Brennan
was injured, and forwards Dick Kluck and
Frank Kaufmann. Likely sophomore pros-
pects include Neal Fichtel, Dick Giedlin,
Tony Lipton and Marty O'Connor.
Coach Ed Krause is starting his fourth
season as basketball coach of the Irish five.
He was an All-America football and basket-
ball player in 1932-33 while at Notre Dame.
His cage squads have won .700 of games
played in the past four years.
Leo Barnhorsf, Forward
Jim O'Halloran, Forward
Review of Politics
Observes Anniversary
The tenth anniversary of the University
of Notre Dame's Review of Politics was re-
cently observed with a special anniversary
edition.
The quarterly has gained international
prominence in the ten years of its existence.
Founded to “revive the Aristotelian concep-
tion of politics, a sovereign conception that
embraced everything, every interest, every
event, every idea affecting the life of man
in the community,” the magazine has pub-
lished the works of outstanding authorities
in many fields.
Its editor is Dr. Waldemar Gurian.
Among the authors who have contributed
to it are Jacques Maritain, Don Luigi
Sturzo, Mortimer Adler, Ferdinand Her-
mens, John U. Neff, Hans Kohn and many
others. The Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy,
C.S.C , head of Notre Dame's Department
of History, and Professor Frank O’Malley
of the Department of English at Notre
Dame, have served as associate editors.
During the past year the magazine has
been praised in the Dublin Review, Com-
monweal and other publications. In the last
six months a 25 per cent increase in paid
circulation brought the Review to a new
high of readers.
Labor Leaders Named
To Commerce Council
William Green, President of the Ameri-
can Federation of Labor, and Philip Mur-
ray, President of the CIO, have accepted
appointments as members of the Advisory
Council for the College of Commerce at the
University of Notre Dame. The Council is
composed of leading business, industrial and
labor leaders of the United States.
This was announced recently by the Rev.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of
Notre Dame, at the conclusion of the Fall
meeting of the Council at Notre Dame. The
acceptances of Green and Murray bring to
31 the total membership of the Advisory
Council, established early this year to stimu-
late closer ties between the College of Com-
merce at Notre Dame and business, industry
and labor.
The Council’s Fall meeting made pre-
liminary plans for the 1948-49 Bishop
O’Hara Seminar Lecture series to be given
at Notre Dame this school year by business,
industrial and labor experts. Plans also
were made for the extension of special
clinics on business problems to be held by
the Notre Dame College of Commerce.
Notre Dame sponsored a highly successful
foreign trade conference last Spring, which
was the first of these clinics.
Vol. 2 • .Vo. I 25
Our
Contributors
LEONARD F. SOMMER — Instructor in
Speech and Coach of the Notre Dame
Debate Team. Received 'degrees of
Ph.B. and M.A. from Marquette Uni-
versity.
JAMES J. KLOGKENKEMPER —Senior
in College of Arts and Letters, major-
ing in Journalism. His home is in
Batchtown, Ill. Winner in 147-pound
division, Notre Dame student boxing
tournament, March, 1948.
RAYMOND J. DONOVAN—Assistant Di-
rector, Notre Dame Department of
Public Information. Author of “Spring
Sports” in July issue of Noirs Dame,
and of “Football Preview” in the Oc-
tober issue.
PHOTOGRAPHS—By Wally Kunkle, Uni-
versity photographer, and student as-
sistants James Ferstel, James McLaugh-
lin, Donald Spinney and Joseph Hipp.
Judge Wilkin to
Address Law Institute
United States Judge Robert N. Wilkin
of Cleveland, O., and four prominent edu-
■cators will address the second annual Nat-
ural Law Institute to be held at the
University of Notre Dame on December 10
and 11, it was recently announced by the
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President
of Notre Dame.
The other speakers will be: Dr. Gordon
Hall Gerould of Princeton University; Dr.
Ernest Levy of the University of Washing-
ton; Dr. Maurice LeBel of Laval Univer-
sity, Quebec, and Dr. Heinrich A. Rommen
of the College of St. Thomas, St. Paul,
Minn. Archbishop Paul C. Schulte of In-
-dianapolis, Ind., will be honorary chair-
man of the institute, while Father Cav-
anaugh will be ’chairman.
Hundreds of judges, lawyers, legislators,
educators, businessmen and others inter-
ested in helping to increase emphasis on the
Natural Law as the basis of life, liberty and
all other human rights, are expected to at-
tend the Institute. Sponsor of this year’s
institute is Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati, O.,
business executive.
Excuse, Please
Mr. Frederick S. Beckman is an instruc-
tor in the Department of Fine Arts. This
information was not contained in an article,
<ePaints and Clays in ‘Seventh Heaven’,” in
the October issue of Notre Dame.
The Sword of the Spirit
(Continued from page 7)
Russians along these lines, we are squander-
ing our substance, weakening ourselves and
serving their ultimate purposes. In our
whole policy, we have permitted Russia too
much freedom to contrive ways for weaken-
ing our capitalism.
The struggle in its current phase is but
in a temporary, stalemated and perhaps ad-
vanced stage, I have no doubt history will
eventually record. Much can and must be
done with it by us, now and every day. A
new Truman administration doubtless will
seek to effect new measures to handle This
Thing more effectively. Surely we must have
new and constantly more efficient leader-
ship, ever seeking new and better methods,
but not forgetful of the sad experience
through which we have moved to emerge
from propaganda delusions to our present
understanding.
We cannot possibly keep up with events
as we march. We can only pick up news-
papers occasionally at our leisure, or listen
to the radio when we have opportunity. By
such hop-skip-and-jump reading and learn-
ing, we may not hope to acquire the knowl-
edge of experts. But we will not be deluded
if we keep our minds clear in the knowledge
of the true nature of This Thing, and de-
fend this basic understanding with the
Sword of the Spirit against intrusions which
will daily be attempted upon our intellect.
Let this understanding be our guide-measure
—without concession, without deviation.
This is essential.
Sherman Portrait Given
To Art Gallery
A portrait of General William T. Sher-
man, famed Northern general in the Civil
War, has been presented to the University
of Notre Dame by his granddaughter, Miss
Eleanor Sherman Fitch of New York City,
according to an announcement by the Rev.
Thomas T. McAvoy, G.S.C., Director of
the University Archives.
Miss Fitch gave the portrait to Notre
Dame as an addition to the University’s
growing collection of records and relics
from the general’s life. • This collection in-
cludes one of General Sherman’s uniforms
and a number of letters and manuscripts.
The portrait will hang in the Wightman
Memorial Art Gallery at Notre Dame until
a permanent Sherman exhibit is established.
Sherman sat for the portrait about the
time he succeeded General Grant as com-
mander-in-chief of the United States Army.
This work is unsigned, but it is believed
to have been painted by Duveneck, a promi-
nent American artist of the post Civil War
period.
The Sherman family has had a long con-
nection with Notre Dame. The general’s
wife and children lived at Notre Dame dur-
ing the Civil War, and two sons, Tom and
Willie, attended the University. In 1865
General Sherman attended the commence-
ment at Notre Dame, and among the let-
ters in the Sherman collection are several
from the general to the Rev. Edward Sorin,
C.S.C., founder of the University.
Father Moore Reports
On Research Progress
The University of Notre Dame is con-
ducting important research in bacteriology,
chemistry, physics and engineering, the
Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Dean of
the Notre Dame Graduate School, reported
to Notre Dame’s Advisory Council on
Science and Engineering at its Fall meeting
which was recently held at the University.
The Council, headed by Edgar Kobak of
New York, N. Y., president of the Mutual
Broadcasting Company, is composed of
twenty leading scientists, engineers, and in-
dustrial experts. They conferred for two
days with the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,
C.S.C., President of Notre Dame, Father
Moore and other university officials.
Father Moore revealed that Notre Dame
currently is conducting research in meat
destructive parasites, plant growth, chemo-
therapeutic agents for cancer, antimalarial
drugs, atomic energy and radio-active sub-
stances, electronics, synthetic rubbers and
plastics, germ-free life, nutrition, instru-
mentation, aircraft structure, communica-
tions, electro-plating, metals and alloys.
"Atom Fairyland" Presents
Nuclear Physics Discoveries
Research findings of nuclear physicists
during recent years “sound the death knell
of materialism as an explanation of the
universe and as a philosophy of life,” the
Rev. John A. O’Brien, Professor of Religion
at the University of Notre Dame, stated in
an article entitled “Atom Fairyland” which
appeared in the November issue of the
Reader’s Digest.
In his article, Father O’Brien presented
some of the amazing discoveries of scientists
concerning the unbelievable power and en-
ergy stored within the atom. He explained
that instead of matter being composed of
solid inert particles, it is composed of par-
ticles moving at a speed greater than a
bullet shot from a gun.
Even more staggering, according to
Father O’Brien, is the finding of sub-atomic
physicists that all matter composing the
body of a full grown man could be com-
pressed into a tiny speck invisible to the
naked eye, if the gaps and vacant places
between the electrons and protons were
eliminated. Yet the tiny invisible speck of
dust would weigh as much as the body of
a man six feet tall, the Notre Dame pro-
fessor pointed out.
“Findings of nuclear physicists offer new
and striking confirmation of man’s age-old
belief in God. Every particle of mat-
ter is aglow with miracle and with mystery,
singing a refrain in homage of that infinite
Power from whose creative hands it came.
“The evidence of mathematical law of a
high order which atomic researchers encoun-
ter at every step convinces them of the
utter inadequacy of materialism as an ex-
planation of their invisible world. Robert
Andrews Milliken reflected the mood of
scientists when he said: ‘Everyone who re-
flects at all believes, in one way or an-
other, in God.’ ”
26
Notre Dame
Taxes Are Certain. And so is the will to give.
None of us can give to every worthy cause. Nor is it
easy to give even to a jew. Yet it may be easier just
at this season, with the government’s encouragement
of private philanthropy, than at other times.
Notre Dame receives no tax support. Hers is the
smallest endowment among 95 major universities. Her
total football revenue is less than her financial aid to
students. Yet she is determined to go on training men
not only for professional, but for moral and spiritual,
leadership.
Our Needs Are Many. But, since June, 1948,
Father Cavanaugh has stressed a new science and
mathematics classroom-laboratory building (to get
right down to "brass tacks”) as the most pressing of
many pressing needs. Laboratory and research space
is inadequate proportionately to the unique oppor-
tunities which have stemmed from Notre Dame’s
enviable record in science.
Notre Dame devoutly hopes to see such opportuni-
ties realized. Those friends who can help will have her
continuing prayers and her everlasting gratitude.
"to pad salaries and hold men, more and more schools have been talcing on industrial and
military research projects, some antithetical to the whole spirit of pure university research"
. . . 60 percent of American scientists have no formal church affiliation . . . "Science's most
pressing need in this country is for WELL-ROUNDED men."
FORTUNE, October, 1948.
Project Number One -
• • and to finance ... in 1949!
A New Science Building
Cost.. ,s 1,750,0 0 0
Details may be obtained from the University of Notre Dame Foundation