4i-
APRIL' 1949
$
&
£
18
19
VOL. 2" ■ NO. 2
S^X«W>;
JohnH. Cadcfe^ Jfc , , „
■’ -:	’ ’!'	. ‘\ i ...
A Room To. Write In
^SHlFay . . .. . . .
- -
' The Review of PaWcs
. Dale Francis •; .. * , .
The Natwal Low Institute '
- " Another Mofre Dame .JWsf*
. The Great fire at Metre ttame

The President's Page . s .	. .
Rev^ J^hn J, ^wanar^Ji^^SJCif •*
President af the Univ&^	> 3
’,	0
Birthplace of Synthetic Rubber
= 1 _ The Stary of Father Niewland „ . 4
KnufeRockne




the Telling of Her Story
Rev, Patrick Peyfon, C. S. C.
NDSSuientlst Among "Top ten**
r?f Nation's Young Men In #48
Boston Sunday Past . .
‘	'	?	-	O	-J
= The Laetdre Medal
. Robert XWferhile. , ,
, -	<2 L « t -
T ' *	1
Spring Sports ,
John Pt Kennedy , , «
- - - a
The Hew Science BuOng ,


-i
©
The University of Notre Dame
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) •Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame
Published quarterly by The University of Notre Dame at Notre Dame, Indiana. Entered as second-
class matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor • John N. Cackley, Jr., ’37, Managing Editor
Contributors' views do not necessarily reflect those of the University.
VOL. 2
1 949
N O. 2

The
President’s Page

IAM happy to make an announcement that is both en-
couraging and important. Colonel Henry Crown of
Chicago, Chairman of Material Service Corporation, Vice
President and Director of Hilton Hotels Corporation and
Director of Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway
Company, has assured the University of the equipment for
one of the major laboratories of the Department of Chem-
istry in the forthcoming new Science Building. The room
will be known as the Colonel Henry Crown Laboratory of
Organic Chemistry. This handsome act of generosity was
made possible through the good offices of Mr. Britton I.
Budd, member of the Advisory Council for Science and
Notre Dame Foundation Committeeman in Chicago.
Colonel Crown is a well known industrialist in Chicago.
He served in the Corps of Engineers in World War II with
distinction and was awarded the Legion of Merit. His gift
to Notre Dame is one of the most heartening that has ever
been received. It is a substantial help at a time when No-
tre Dame is undertaking the difficult task of raising a mil-
lion four hundred thousand dollars for a new Science
Building. More than that, to me it constitutes an experi-
enced engineer’s endorsement of the work that is being
done by Notre Dame to train young scientists who will
be distinguished for moral character and responsible lead-
ership.
*
ed spectacular agents of force; that force may be used to
kill or to cure, to destroy or to construct.
The University of Notre Dame has never veered from
its policy—that religious principles must be an integral part
of the training, of an educational institution whether that
training be in philosophy in a social science, or in the nat-
ural sciences.
The projected Science Building will enable the Uni-
versity to perfect its scientific training and its capacity’ for
an advanced research integrated with the training of tal-
ented young scientists. In turning out large groups of pre-
medical graduates and scholarly scientists who are well
trained for moral leadership, Notre Dame will be making
its dynamic contribution to the meeting of critical needs of
our time.
1948 was a year of encouraging developments. There
were many outstanding achievements in the various de-
partments of the University; many of them have been
related in the pages of the Alumnus and Notre Dame. The
Notre Dame Foundation members have shown a revitalized
energy in their quest for the money and equipment needed
for the new Science center.
Hopes for unusual progress in 1949 are exceedingly
bright.
The crystallizing of plans for the new Science Building
is an important step towards realizing more fully the oppor-
tunity Notre Dame enjoys to increase notably her contri-
bution to the advancement of science. Today educators
are thoroughly conscious of the grave responsibilities of
modern science. It holds the fate of the world in its test-
tubes, its crucibles, its spectrophotometers. It has uncover-
University of Notre Dame
University of Notre Dame Foundation
Vol. 2 • No. 2
3
The Late Rev. Julius A. Nieuwland, C S.C.
Birthplace of
Synthetic Bobber
By 1906, Father Nieuwland Had Discovered
the Components of Neoprene at Notre Dame

FRIENDS of the Rev. Julius A. Nieuw-
land, C.S.G., carrying on today 'in the I
very same laboratories where the famed No- !
tre Dame priest made his own significant '
contributions to science, remember him well
and with tender affection.
Frail of build, quiet, completely unassum-
ing in manner, he had two absorbing inter-
ests: Science . . . and the Church.
One quality which set him apart was
the intensity with which he pursued both
interests.
Even before being graduated from Notre
Dame, young Nieuwland had singled out
and conducted advanced experiments in the
chemistry of acetylene—a field shunned by
many scientists of the period because of its
unusual hazards. Experiments with this un-
stable hydrocarbon gas frequently culminated
in violent explosions.
Receiving his B.A. degree at Notre Dame
in 1899, he went on to Catholic University,
Washington, D. C., where, at 25, he was
ordained a priest in the Congregation of
Holy Cross. A year later, he received the
Ph.D. degree. The title of his thesis was
“Some Reactions of Acetylene.”
In some accounts of his graduate days, it
is said that Father Nieuwland discovered
an explosive reaction more powerful than
any known to science at that time and then *
destroyed all notes concerning his discovery.
He also recorded in his thesis a reaction
which produced a highly toxic comnound.
The compound was so poisonous that Father
Nieuwland made no further tests of the
reaction. It seems probable that, had he
known that the idea for the develop-
ment of the deadly poison gas, “Lewisite,”
was to be picked up during World War I
from his thesis, he never would have record-
ed the reaction.
Returning to Notre Dame in 1904, as pro-
fessor of botany, Father Nieuwland also con-
tinued his experiments with acetylene hydro-
carbons. Early accounts of his experiments
relate that many explosions occurred, black-
ening the laboratory walls and pitting the
young priest’s face with bits of broken glass.
But, when reactions of acetylene hydro-
carbons could be completed without the
explosions, very interesting new compounds
might be produced. So Father Nieuwland
persisted with his experiments until he had
learned how to control these reactions and
make them safer in general laboratory ma-
nipulations.
As early as 1906, he had discovered the
components of a synthetic rubber. After
using copper as a catalyst instead of the
customary mercury, he observed that the
odor of the reaction mass differed slightly
from any his olfactory nerves had yet en-
countered. Obviously, it contained a new
compound. But how to isolate the compound
and identify it’
In the ensuing years, Father Nieuwland
made numerous attempts to isolate and iden-
tify the compound which gave off this
strange new odor. He knew the use of cop-
per as a catalyst was part of the key, but
ways in which it could be combined with
other chemicals were virtually endless.
He finally succeeded in isolating a small
4	Notre Dame
i
quantity of the compound, and identified it
as divinyl acetylene. Yet, before making his
' discovery public, Father Nieuwland wanted
to make sure that what he had isolated ac-
tually was this now-well-known compound.
In 1918 he was made professor of organic
chemistry at Notre Dame. A few years later
he published the facts concerning his dis-
covery of divinyl acetylene.
His report was read at a symposium on
organic chemistry held by the American
Chemical Society in Rochester. Representa-
tives of the du Pont Company, who were
present at the symposium, immediately rec-
ognized the potential significance of his dis-
covery to industry. Father Nieuwland had,
I in a word, shown how copper could be used
as a catalyst to produce rubber-like materials
from acetylene.
But the University lacked ample labora-
tory facilities and money/ In fact, in order
to carry his experiments to the point at
which the du Pont Company became inter-
ested, Father Nieuwland had, for years, fi-
nanced his project by preparing and selling
botanical slides!
The du Pont Company made arrangements
with Father Nieuwland to use his discovery
in further experiments in its own labora-
tories. The du Pont experiments, initiated
in 1925, resulted in the production of “Du
V Prene,” the first commercially successful syn-
thetic rubber in America. The du Pont Com-
pany later renamed it “Neoprene.”
In 1935, just a year before his death,
Father Nieuwland was awarded the William
Nichols Medal by the American Chemical
Society—the highest award an American
chemist can receive in hi' field.
Father Nieuwland was botany librarian
and curator of the Botany Herbarium and
the E. L. Green Herbarium at Notre Dame,
and founder and editor of The American
Midland Naturalist (which became a large
and greatly respected national publication,
and which still is printed at and distributed
from Notre Dame). He was a fellow of the
American Association for the Advancement
of Science, the British Chemical Society and
the Indiana Academy of Science, of which
he was vice-president in 1929-’3O and presi-
dent in 1933-’34. He was a member of the
American Chemical Society, the Chemical
Society of London, the Biological Society of
Washington, Deutsche Chemische Gesell-
schaft and Phi Sigma.
The late Francis P. Garvan, president of
the Chemical Foundation, once calculated
that Nieuwland’s discovery had saved the
rubber industry the tremendous sum of
$35,000,000 a year. Today, such savings
probably are at a much greater rate than
that. In addition to its multitude of peace-
time uses, Neoprene was one of the four
major types of synthetic rubber used in the
production of thousands of essential war
products. Neoprene saw service in coated
fabrics for control devices, engine cowls, pro-
peller covers for planes, de-icers, ignition
cable, fabric coating for observation bal-
loons and many other uses.
Under President Garvan’s direction, the
Chemical Foundation awarded ten fellow-
ships for the doctorate in chemistry at No-
tre Dame. In addition to the fellowships,
$10,000 was given by the Foundation for
the purchase of books for the chemistry
library, and $10,000 for the establishment
of the Julius A. Nieuwland fund for chemi-
cal and allied science research. This fund
was shortly thereafter increased to $15,600
by an anonymous benefaction—significant,
if belated, consolation for Father Nieuw-
land’s having earlier been required to work
without benefit of endowment funds and to
raise money for his acetylene experiments
by making and selling botany slides.
Funeral services for Father Nieuwland
were held on June 13, 1936 from the Sacred
Heart Church on the University campus.
He was buried in the Community Cemetery,
at Notre Dame.
Many of the science instructors now en-
gaged in special rubber, germ-free life, Rh
factor, anti-malarial drug and other research
work in the University’s laboratories studied
under Father Nieuwland. Sharing his zeal
for scientific explorations, some are winning
comparable distinction today—bringing the
satisfaction which comes with real service
to themselves . . . and to Notre Dame.
Father Nieuwland at Work in His Laboratory in the Old Chemistry Building — Still in Use
Knute Rockne
By JOHN N. CACKIEY, JR.
It is appropriate at this particular
time of the year to honor one of Our
Lady’s most outstanding sons—Knute
K. Rockne. The 18th anniversary of his
death falls on March 31, while March
4 would have been his 61st birthday.
Material for this article was obtained
through the kindness of Mrs. Rockne
and some of the late coach’s intimate
friends.
“TpVERYBODY up’' was an oft-repeated
J—1 cry to hundreds of Notre Dame foot-
ball players, when Knute Rockne assembled
his squads for an afternoon session on Car-
tier Field.
It was not only a command—but also a
promise that Rock was going to impart some
of his wit, perhaps a bit of sarcasm if
needed, and plenty of gridiron ‘know-how’
to willing listeners. Many sideline spectators
—including students, friends of the Univer-
sity, and visiting alumni, to whom he was
a familiar figure—were never fully aware of
Knute’s personal characteristics, particularly
his devotion to his family.
The man everyone knew was really not
known. Rock was a fiery and painstaking
coach, a dynamic after-dinner speaker and
famed for his between-the-halves pep talks.
Inwardly, however, he was shy and rather
timid—never over-confident even about his
profession of teaching the technique of
blocking and tackling to future All-Ameri-
cans.
Many years ago, Will Rogers, a close
friend of Rock’s, was scheduled for a speech
in downtown South Bend. An entire front
row section was reserved for his local
acquaintances — including Coach Rockne.
Upon arriving at the hall, Knute insisted
on sitting in the back. “Too conspicuous up
front,” he told Mrs. Rockne. Rogers began
to talk and then noticed that the reserved
section was somewhat empty. He drawled
“I just can’t believe that my old friends
have deserted me tonight—Knute Rockne
is supposed to be right up here.” Knute
started to squirm and perspire. Rogers yelled
“Has anybody seen Rockne?” As always hap-
pens in such circumstances, an unkind soul
bellowed “Here he is!” and pointed an ac-
cusing finger at Rock.
Rogers strode down the aisle, grabbed
Knute by the ears, pulled him to his feet
and ushered him to the stage. By this time,
everyone—except Rockne, who was quite
uncomfortable and blushing a deep scarlet—
howled gleefully. Rogers leaned over and
planted a resounding kiss on Rock’s bald
head, exclaiming “Knute, you old scalla-
wag!” The coach confided to his wife, later,
that it was a most embarrassing experience,
and sighed “If only the floor had fallen in.”
Rock admitted that he would have laughed,
too, if the situation had involved someone
else present such as Russell Erskine, a close
friend and president of the Studebaker Cor-
poration, instead of himself.
Rockne was in constant demand as a
speaker, and therefore seldom discussed
“shop” during his few evenings at home.
After an arduous afternoon of football prac-
tice, he was content to romp with the chil-
dren or relax with a book—often a chemistry
text—at every available opportunity. Some-
times he would ask his wife how a certain
play looked to her in last Saturday’s game.
More often than not, he inquired about the
family diet—were the youngsters getting
enough “ruffage”? “Healthy children need
healthy food,” he cautioned.
Rock was secretly proud of his gardening
ability. It wasn’t a hobby—frankly, he didn’t
possess any as such—but rather it stemmed
from the scientist’s desire for self-sufficiency.
He had a flair for growing vegetables—
never flowers, because “they didn’t provide
anything for the table.”
Rock’s thesis as a college senior, a requi-
site for his graduation in 1914, was entitled
“The Economy of the Soil.” His knowledge
of soil was practical, thorough and detailed.
In this highly technical paper, he wrote
“No industry is so vital to the well-being of
a nation as agriculture,- and nothing is so
vital to agriculture as the soil,” and added
that “the education of the farmer is going
on everywhere; not too fast, so as to pro-
duce mental indigestion, but just enough to
effect a steady improvement of methods and
results.”
Christmas Day was Knute’s favorite yearly
festival. He delighted in giving the children
constructive and educational toys. As they
became older, scooters and tricycles were
common. The latter, Rock said, “helped to
build and exercise strong bodies.”
One of his greatest disappointments oc-
curred on a certain night-before-Christmas.
After putting the children to bed, Knute and
Mrs. Rockne stayed up late to decorate the
tree—and “wait for Santa Claus.” It was
nearly midnight before the task was finished
—both parents exhausted but happy in
having provided a welcome for the long-
whiskered man from the North. There was
a creak at the top of the stairs. Rock
glanced quickly in that direction and saw
three of his children, wide-eyed and interest-
ed, who had been watching the entire pro-
ceeding.
On rare occasions, when Mrs. Rockne was '
out of the city, Knute would sometimes in-
vite several football players in for a snack.
His specialty in cooking was usually slanted
toward the “simpler dishes”—namely, and
only, ham and eggs. Later, after the guests
had departed, Rock would put the children
to bed, and then all five would sing an ap-
propriate verse:
“There is a boarding-house far, far away
Where they serve ham and eggs three
times a day
Woe, woe, the boarders yell
When they hear the dinner bell
For they know the eggs will smell far,
far away.”
Coach Rockne was an avid reader. A
neighbor once stated that he could carry on
an intelligent discussion on any current or
popular subject. He found history—ancient
and modern—exceedingly interesting. He
liked to read psychology as well as the latest
mystery books. While smoking one of his
two after-dinner cigars and absorbing an
Edgar Wallace novel, Knute would sudden-
ly flip over to the cover and start designing
a few X’s and a like number of O’s—
standard procedure for a football coach dia-
gramming a new play.
Knute Rockne possessed an uncanny mem-
ory for names and faces. South Benders
gave Knute and the team a gigantic civic
reception upon their return from the South-
ern California game in the 1929-30 National
Championship era. The parade slowed to a
halt, and Rock, who was riding in an open
car, spied an old acquaintance on the
crowded sidewalk. He shouted “Hey, Red,
still playing first base?” The Notre Dame
coach and the fellow named Red had com-
peted against each other in a softball game
20 years earlier—and this was their first
meeting in two decades.
Rockne’s amazingly wide interests included
music—he played the flute, while a student,.
in the Notre Dame band. Knute was espe-
cially fond of musical comedies and light
operas. He also liked moving pictures and
never failed to take the entire family to see
a first-class show. Rock’s admiration of oil
paintings was more than just a passing
whim; he could, and did, appreciate fine
art.
Rock was also a competent writer and an
able linguist. He prepared his own news-
paper and magazine articles, and disdained
the idea of using a “ghost”. Knute could
speak his native Norwegian language, as well
as understand conversational German.
As always, Rock adjusted himself to the
situation, whatever it might be, and seldom
came out the loser. He became interested in
Catholicism in the early part of 1925. His
conversion climaxed months of study and
preparation. Knute was baptized in the Log
(Continued on Page 17)
6
Notre Dame
WILLIAM CULLEN FAY, JR.—tearing up 3
months' work by his dad — Collier's
All-America issue.
a
room
to
write
in
By BILL FAY
WILLIAM CULLEN FAY, SR.—with the
fountain pen which he has good rea-
son to prefer to a typewriter.
FpHE most important thing about writing
for magazines is to have a room of your
own to work in. Back in 1946, when I got
out of the Army and returned to The Chi-
cago Tribune’s sports department, I had a
room of my own in seven different hotels in
13 days.
Maybe it was the strain of hauling luggage
in and out of taxis. Anyway, my appendix
erupted, the army reclaimed me from ter-
minal leave and I met a lieutenant-nurse
who was departing service for marriage. Bet-
ter, she was abdicating her kitchenette
apartment.
“It isn’t much,” she declared truthfully,
“but you can have it.”
She was right. It wasn’t much. One room,
painted a bilious green, and a kitchenette
that opened into a bathette. You had to
outflank the refrigerator to go to the bath-
ette. The really nice part about the apart-
ment was that I traveled most of the time
and never had to stay there.
But I got married, and went to work for
Collier’s, and that room-to-work-in really
became crowded. Betsy (my wife) shipped
some furniture from her ex-apartment in
Pittsburgh: three chairs, an electric sewing
machine, an ultra-violet lamp for sun bath-
ing, four floor lamps, a coffee table and a
chest of drawers which contained three cans
of condensed tomato soup. It would not have
been economical [Betsy insisted] to leave
three perfectly good cans of tomato soup in
Pittsburgh.
We started to look for a larger apartment
(along with 100,000 other Chicago fami-
lies). Eleven months later, we found one—
spacious, first floor, seven rooms. The owner
didn’t want a bonus—just a Buick Road-
ifiaster, light green, white-wall tires, com-
plete with radio and heater. Not gray, not ’
blue. Light green, and we didn’t have to
buy it—Just deliver it to him at list price.
Notre Dame’s Bill Fay, Collier’s
sports editor at 29, tells how to write
for magazines: “Grab a pen and get
where the baby isn’t!”
Now 31, Fay was graduated from
Notre Dame as a philosophy major in
1940. Wrote sports for Pittsburgh Post-
Gazette in 1941, and a year for Chi-
cago Tribune before entering the Army
in 1942. One of the officers in charge
of first Stars and Stripes newspaper in
Pacific area.
He returned to Chicago Tribune in
1946, went to Collier’s in December,
1947, where he became responsible for
new technique of naming All-American
football players by weekly studies of
game movies.
While studying philosophy as an
undergraduate, Fay covered some Car-
negie Tech and Notre Dame games for
Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Elmer Layden,
then Notre Dame coach, liked the
stories sent them to Arch Ward (Chi-
gago Tribune sports editor) without
Fay’s knowledge, set up an interview
and Fay was hired.
“What Layden did for me is only
one instance,” says Fay, “of the hun-
dreds of students he helped while he
was at Notre Dame.”
Fortunately, I had a friend who had a
friend who had a friend in Detroit. “I’ll talk
to my friend,” my friend said. “You may
have to pick up the car in Detroit and drive
it back, but you’ll get action inside of two
weeks.”	•
Six weeks later, the situation was merely
desperate. It was the eighth of March, the
landlord was standing firm, William Cullen,
Jr., was becoming more and more imminent,
and what with the extra furniture (and the
two large office-size filing cabinets I had to
buy) it was increasingly difficult to outflank
the refrigerator.
Shouldn’t have worried, though. On
March 10, the landlord received delivery on
the Roadmaster, light green, white-wall tires,
complete with radio and heater, from his
own dealer. “My name came up on the list,”
the landlord reported incredulously. “Can
you call off the Detroit deal?”
That was easy. My friend called his friend.
William Cullen, Jr. came through like a
little tax exemption on March 15, and we
moved into the apartment April 1.
“We’ll fix up one of the bedrooms as
your office,” Betsy promised that first morn-
ing. “Just pick out the one you want.”
I took the one farthest from the kitchen;
Cullen took the one closest to the bathroom;
Betsy took the one in the middle. Then
Betsy rearranged the furniture (our original
agreement called for renting the apartment
furnished, plus the Roadmaster, light green)
■—mixed in her own pieces, and we had
three large chairs left over. The landlord
wouldn’t take them, so they were put in my
office, temporarily.
Then we bought a few things for" the
baby: a carriage, a canvas bathing contrap-
tion, a play pen and finally a swing six feet
high with an eight-foot arc. The bathing
contraption went into Cullen’s room; the
carriage, play pen and swing went into my
office.
That was when I gave up typing and
started to work with pen and small note
pad. Two conveniences which make any
room that room-to-work-in. With them you
can scribble in parlor, bedroom or bath;
anywhere, in fact, the baby isn’t.
The smaller the pad the better. Lately,
I’ve been carrying my office around in my ”
(Continued on Page 17)
8
Notre Dame
The Review of Politics
One of the World’s Foremost Periodicals in the Field
of International Politics is Published at Notre Dame
The author is an ex-newspaperman,
J former editor of the NORTH CARO-
LINA CATHOLIC and a recent con-
tributor to COMMONWEAL, INTEG-
RITY and THE SIGN. Mr. Francis is
now a graduate student in the Depart-
ment of Political Science at Notre
Dame.
OUT of the tense and troubled summer of
1938—the summer of Munich—there
came to three Notre Dame professors a
strong conviction: a journal of international
affairs, one which would emphasize Christian
truths, one which would be a sort of bul-
y wark against materialism and secularism in
international politics, was overdue.
The quarterly Review of Politics—now
generally regarded as perhaps the finest jour-
nal of its kind in America, and as one of the
best in the world—was the tangible result
of that joint conviction. Despite the greatest
of handicaps, its first issue appeared in Jan-
uary, 1939—published then, as still, by the
University of Notre Dame.
Those three professors—Dr. Waldemar
Gurian, editor and internationally known
member of Notre Dame’s Department of Po-
litical Science, with Frank O’Malley and the
; Rev. Thomas McAvoy, C.S.C., as co-manag-
ing editors—s<=“t up shop in a tiny room
in the Navy-built “temporary” structure still
serving as the “Social Science Building.”
Sharing their room with a secretary and
another professor whose desk was screened
off by a partial partition, they decided with-
out assistance upon format, paper stock and
By DALE FBA1VCIS
all of the other physical problems inevitably
associated with the creation of a new maga-
zine—and then wrote all of the content of
that first issue themselves!
Then Dr. Gurian started writing letters!
Not only to everyone in his own large circle
of scholarly friends, but to many others—
the world over. Here in the new Review,
he told them, was a place to propound
their studied and experienced views and be
heard in every English-speaking part of the
globe—plus. Here, he told them, was a real
opportunity to assist in the advancement of
doctrines of Christian political living.
It worked.
Regular contributors to The Review now
include Jacques Maritain, Mortimer Adler,
Christopher Hollis, Don Luigi Sturzo (foun-
der of Italy’s Christian Democratic Party),
John U. Nef (professor of Economic His-
tory, University of Chicago) and many,
many other highly qualified figures.
Now claiming hundreds of non-academic
as well as academic fans, non-Catholic as
well as Catholic readers, the Review is not
intended primarily for specialists. Dr. Gurian
is most insistent upon this point.
Recent issues, for example, have contain-
ed articles on the atom bomb, the German
crisis, Soviet policies, contemporary Ameri-
can problems, Potsdam and Yalta, Russian
nationalism, etc.; literary critiques, philoso-
phic and historical essays, etc. And the
authors of all such articles have concerned
themselves with interpretations of each prob-
lem at hand in terms of its significance for
the Christian world.
The Review’s files now contain literally
hundreds of commendatory letters from top
scholars at Harvard, Yale, Cornell, Ohio
State, Antioch, Stanford, the Universities of
Washington and Chicago, Smith College and
so on and on.
From the heads of Yale University’s In-
stitute of International Studies: "The Re-
view . . . has established itself as indispens-
able reading for the political scientist.”
From Walter Lippman on the quarterly’s
10th anniversary: “I regard The Review of
Politics as having very few equals and no
superiors in the English-speaking world in
the serious discussion of international poli-
tics.”
Wrote Jacques Maritain: “The general
philosophy and inspiration of this review, as
well as the competence and scientific quality
of its editorship and its contributors, make
it one of the most remarkable and enlight-
ening publications in political science.”
The magazine Commonweal recently
raised this question in an editorial about the
Review. Does it do the work of the Chris-
tian apostolate? “In the highest sense, it
does—for what else is it to educate, to in-
struct, to clarify, and, in these days of de-
scending iron curtains and closing doors, to
keep open the lines of communication be-
tween men of good will, and to guide their
feet into the way of peace.”
Samuel Cardinal Stritch wrote, “It is an
outstanding learned periodical of our times.”-
The editor of the Dublin Review, in re-
cent comments on the high quality of The
(Continued on Page 17)
Left to Right: Frank O'Malley, Co-Managing Editor; Dr. Waldemar Gurian, Editor;
Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C., Co-Managing Editor
| Above: Library of Notre Dame's College of
I Law, first permanent law school ever organ-
ized in an American Catholic University (1869)
i ne
N atural
Law
Institute
Another Notre Dame “First”: The Nation’s Best
Legal Minds Are Called to a Joint Study of NAT-
URAL Law — Fundamental Basis of Human
Rights, the Law of God Recognized by Reason
Alvin A. Gould, sponsor of The Second Annual
Natural Law Institute, is a Cincinnati business
man and President of the Board of Trustees of
The Robert Gould Research Foundation, a non-
profit corporation dedicated to the public health
and welfare and devoted primarily to the ad-
vancement of the science of nutrition.
Mr. Gould was born in New York City and
went to Cincinnati in 1933. He has indicated
that his one-year old son, Alvin Robert, will
enroll with the class of ’65 at the University
of Notre Dame
During World War II, Mr. Gould served in
the United States Coast Guard. He is a mem-
ber of the American Legion, Cincinnati Coast
Guard Club, Cuvier Press Club, Variety Club
and National Conference of Christians and Jews.
G. K. Chesterton once said that the legal
profession was “full of tangled things,
texts and aching eyes.”
A good bit of the needed entangling is
a major aim of the annual Natural Law
Institute (open to the public and first held
at Notre Dame in December, 1947, and
repeated in December, 1948). It is one of
the most significant research projects in the
history' of law in the United States. It seeks
to study the purpose and nature of law it-
self.
What is Natural Law?
Blackstone said it is “dictated by God
Himself, is binding all over the globe in all
countries at all times: no human laws are
of any validity if contrary to this, and such
of them as are valid derive all their force
and authority from this origin.” America’s
“Founding Fathers” said the same thing
when they acknowledged that the only rea-
son our rights are “unalienable” is because
they come from God.
What we call “democracy,” then, must
be more than a matter of counting votes.
It rests for its validity upon recognition of
the inherent worth of the individual man
and woman. And that comes from God, as
our Declaration of Independence acknowl-
edges. Our own form of Government is based
upon a belief in God and belief in His laws.
Objectivity of truth transcends opinion—
as we should begin to realize if a fellow
airplane passenger; advocated a “democratic
vote” on how the pilot should handle the
plane.
More than 600 jurists, lawyers, educators,
legislators, businessmen, philosophers and
others came from every part of the United
States to the Second Annual Natural Law
Institute to look, together, for answers to
such questions as these (phrased by Dr.
Clarence E. Manion, Dean of Notre Dame’s
College of Law):
“If the individual has rights, where do
they come from? If from constitutions and
bills of rights, what is to prevent someone
from changing constitutions and taking these
rights away? Is the rightness of all govern-
mental action to be tested by what a major-
ity of the people desire the government to
do? If so, what was wrong with Hitler’s
government, assuming a majority of the Ger-
man people wanted him to do what he
did?”
IO
Notre name
4
In the words of its own official program,
. the purpose of the Natural Law Institute
is “to proclaim the fresh and vital doctrine
of the Natural Law to a legal profession
‘full of tangled things, texts and aching
eyes’ ”—and,, “in a world engulfed by prag-
matic materialism, to reaffirm the proposi-
tion that the roots of all human liberty may
continue to rest, with safety, only in a recog-
nition of the immutability of the principle
of justice and the universality of morality.”
More specific purpose of the Second An-
nual Institute, as summarized by the Rev.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of the
University, who served as presiding officer,
was:
< A better and more general public under-
standing of the Natural Law as the basis of
human rights; its recognition by those most
responsible for the moral, economic, politi-
cal and cultural wellbeing of all peoples,
and establishment of the importance of its
acceptance by all nations as the fundamental
principle underlying international justice
and amity.
“It has been charged,” said Father Cava-
naugh, “that ‘unchanging principles of law’
are restrictive and unprogressive. But unless
the basic principles of law are unchanging,
the law can never truly progress—it can only
wander in circles. Unless it has an objective
> toward which it moves, it can never make
progress. The Natural Law Institute is a
thorough study of the purpose of the law.”
Said Dean Manion: “If man does have
an imperishable, created nature which is
governed and protected by created natural
laws, then there would seem to be justifica-
tion for those' human constitutions and bills
of rights which try to protect human beings
from the wanton, whimsical treatment that
is accorded the beasts of the field. If man
does not have such created nature, then man
is just a grown-up beast and the best would
seem to belong to the biggest, might is right,
justice is non-existent and the world might
> as well reconcile itself to the worst.
Natural Law was traced historically at
the Second Institute—from Aristotle to Cic-
ero, from Aquinas to Locke, from the Dec-
laration of Independence to today.
Natural Law in the Greek Period was
discussed by Dr. Maurice LeBel, head of
the Greek Department, Laval University,
Quebec, who is a Fellow of the Royal So-
ciety of Canada and Chairman of the Ca-
nadian Humanities Research Council. “The
expression ‘natural law’ is ambiguous, con-
fusing and misleading,” he said; “it means
natural justice, that is to say, an inner senti-
ment of right and wrong, which is to be
found everywhere in all men; it is not writ-
ten, it is proper to human nature, it is a
thing of reason; all men have a natural, in-
fallible and practical knowledge of it; man
must do good and avoid evil; he who sins
should be punished; damage done must be
repaired; man must preserve his own being.
All these precepts belong to the nature of
man; they are the very expression of the
universal idea of justice.”
Natural Law in the Roman Period was
traced by Dr. Ernest Levy, professor of Law,
University of Washington, author of several
books and articles on the subject and form-
erly professor of law in the Universities of
Berlin, Frankfort, Freiburg and Heidelburg.
“Cicero,” he said, “guided by Greek philoso-
phy, depicts the law of nature as the eternal
and universal law originating in God and
therefore not subject to man-made changes.
Its fundamental precepts are: to harm no
one and to serve the common welfare. The
Roman jurists, on the other hand, were pri-
marily concerned with the law binding on
earth and enforceable by court action. To
their minds was natural what squared with
the normal order of human interests and,
consequently, did not require further evi-
dence. They assumed such rules to be fa-
miliar to all peoples and applicable to citi-
zens and non-citizens alike.
“But not all rules practiced in that gen-
eral way were regarded as in conformity
with nature,” Dr. Levy continued. “A slave,
e.g., while at law a piece of property, was
by nature a person, and all men were equal.
This antithesis caused the jurists to make
concessions to the point of view of natural
law. Since, however, they took slavery for
granted, these concessions were limited in
scope. Outside the field of practical consid-
erations they referred to natural law only
in sporadic statements. But these statements
were given a prominent place in the Corpus
Juris of Justinian. So they could be used
as outstanding evidence for the recognition
of a law*; of nature. In fact, they have been
quoted throughout the centuries, from the
Middle Ages to the present day.”
Natural Law in the Mediaeval Period
was outlined by Dr. Gordon Hall Gerould,
professor emeritus of English, Princeton
University, also a member of the Mediaeval
Academy of America.
Natural Law in the Renaissance Period
was discussed under the leadership of Dr.
Heinrich A Rommen, professor of Political
Science, College of St. Thomas, St. Paul,
Minn., who is the author of “The Natural
Law” and “The State and Catholic
Thought.” “It was the great Doctors of the
second flowering of Scholasticism,” insisted
Dr. Heinrich, “who made the truly great
contributions to the theory of natural law.
. . . Many problems of their times forced
them to apply the doctrine to concrete sit-
uations. Thus, against the Divine Right
Theory of princely absolutism they had to
clarify the natural law origin of the state
and the thesis that the forms of govern-
men are of human, not of divine, law.
Against the colonial imperialism, they were
called to defend the natural rights of the
Indians. As nobody before, they elaborated
the right to freedom against all forms of
slavery; the right to achieve resistance
against tyrannical government; the distinc-
tion between the state, based on natural law
and the Church of divine inspiration, and
the sovereignty of each in suo ordineT
The Status of Natural Law in American
Jurisprudence was treated by U. S. Judge
Robert N. Wilkin, of the Northern District
of Ohio, who served on the Ohio Supreme
Court in 1932 and 1933. He is the author
of “The Spirit of the Legal Profession” and
“The Eternal Lawyer,” and a trustee of
Oberlin College and Western Reserve Uni-
versity.
The Second Institute was sponsored by
Alvin A. Gould, Cincinnati businessman.
The First Institute had been sponsored by
the New York City alumni club. Sponsorship
of future sessions of the Institute will be
welcomed.
The Most Rev. Paul C. Schulte, Archbish-
op of Indianapolis, served as honorary chair-
man.
Leaders of the Second Annual Natural Law Institute were, left to right. Dr. Levy; Judge Wilkin; Dean Manion; Rev.
John H. Murphy, C.S.C., University vice-president; Archbishop Schulte; Dr. Gerould; Dr. Rommen, and Rev.
Gerald B. Phelan, Director of Notre Dame's Mediaeval Institute. Dr. LeBel is not present in the photograph.
1
A "Flying Mattress/' a Senator, and
Napoleon’s Telescope AU Figured in
the Conflagration of '79
You remember thar Napoleon 10 had presented
Notre Dame with a "munificent gift/' the tele- . ;
scope. Was it saved in the fire? We are told (the
Scholastic, XIII, 1879-'8O) that, to some extent,
it suffered in the fiery blast,, not so much, by being <	; ■
>- . * - • / ’
burned as by being "saved," which unnecessary ;'7j
*	,	A ‘	T s - 7 >	_ 4
process "jarred it slightly to the manifest injury of	J
' itsnervous system. > By-the kind care of
Wilfred,- however, It was braced up witb/th^
desired tonics, a<>d the gentlemen-of Jhe< astroj^7^
, omy class rallied Ground it for the first-time ori‘|he'^^
evening of September 21 st in great hopes of :
seeing the purple spot on Jupiter." ‘	‘;
Mr. Klingle, a merchant from South Bend, who J
assisted in carrying gut valuables, barely missed	;
being hit by a portion of falling wall. Senator	s
Leeper, his arms full of books, escaped a falling / I
cornice by a split second. And a Sister, passing J
through the rear door, had not gone more than ’7
ten feet when the tear porch collapsed. -	. d
x	~ ' J
A young student, Harry Kitz, was rushing out of
the burning building, happy in the thought he
had saved a few books. Having seen these nar-
row accidents, he must have been filled with I d j
unspeakable terror as he felt himself crushed and; ? i
stretched on the ground. Surprised he surely must’ / j
have been at his own strength in casting off. what ;	4 \
he thought, mistakenly, was a falling wall, but d
which proved to be only a mattress thrown from J
the fourth floor.	z	7
Fourth in a series of articles on the history of
the University of Notre Dame (adapted from
NOTRE DAME, ONE HUNDRED YEARS,
by Arthur J. Hope, C. S. C.)
"TpIRE! FIRE! The University is on
r fire!”
The warning shout was picked up and re-
layed swiftly around the campus on that.
April morning of 1879.
Students, faculty members and the girls
and Sisters of nearby St. Mary’s rallied ,
’round the burning building only a few min- v
utes after the first alarm. The fire was as
yet a mere small circle of flames, licking
close to the railing that ran around the base
of the Dome.
But the University had no fire department,
no organized squad of student and faculty
fire fighters. The nearest fire department was
in South Bend, then two miles away . . . and
it hadn’t been called upon to fight a blaze
in two years.
All members of the South Bend fire de-
partment were volunteers. They had to be
rounded up—and the “engine” put in order x
before the run to the University could be
made.
Meanwhile, at the scene of the fire, some
of the faculty and student body rushed to
the roof of the six-story building, and at-
tempted to beat out and smother the flames.
The fire buckets on the sixth floor con-
tained no water, and there was none in the
great tanks on the roof.
The power plant quickly got up steam and
forced water up through the pipes to the
roof tanks. But the tanks were soon empty
again, and the roof crackled with renewed
fury.	\
All but two of the men on the roof es-
caped down the stairs within the building.
These two—Florian DeVoto and Brother
Bruno—were separated from the skylight by
a wall of flame.
Peering over the edge of the building,
they saw the big water pipe extending from
the roof to the ground. They slid down the
pipe to safety—not without considerable
wear on clothes, hide and nerves.
Inside the burning building, students and
faculty members worked frantically to save
what they could—hurling laboratory equip- <
ment, furniture, mattresses, etc., out the
windows in such a hail that the area direct-
12
Notre Dame
I
A
few?
rreat Fire
at Notre Dame
OUT OF THE FIRE CAME A NEW NOTRE DAME
• WITH NEW DEPARTMENTS • NEW-FANGLED
EIGHTS • AND INTER-CO EEEG I ATE FOOTRALL
ly surrounding the building became a no
man’s land.
But, in their disorganized haste to save
anything and everything, they overlooked
most of the things of greatest value.
Notre Dame’s treasured library, acquired
through years of patient work, was com-
pletely destroyed. This included practically
all of the University’s old letters, historical
documents and valuable manuscripts. The
prized herbarium, then containing over
8,000 distinct species of plants, went up in
smoke. Within three hours, the University
building, St. Francis’ Home, the Infirmary
and Music Hall were in complete ruin.
The loss was estimated at $200,000. In-
surance coverage amounted to only $45,000.
Since completion of the school year was
impossible, the University decided to give
degrees to every candidate whose work up
to that point had been satisfactory. In those
days, there were still no educational associa-
tions to consult about conditions under
which degrees might be awarded.
Most of the students went home; some
stayed on a while, to help with the gigantic
task of salvaging still-serviceable equipment
and other materials from the smouldering
ruins, stacking usable brick, hauling away
rubble, etc. Many South Bend citizens came
to the campus to help with the clean-up
work.
Some financial help, and extension of store
credit for purchasing new materials and
equipment, were immediately given; and the
railroad companies granted half-rate on all
incoming freight during the reconstruction
period. Debts owed the University by former
students amounted to $75,000, but Father
Sorin’s appeal to them for settlement was
answered by payments totaling $22.
Plans went ahead for the rebuilding of
Notre Dame.
The first stone, for the first of the new
buildings to be erected, was placed on May
19, 1879. This building was designed to
be as fireproof as the architectural know-
how of the period permitted. Its ceilings
were high, and its rooms spacious. Featuring
new gas illumination, steam heat, running
cold and hot water in the lavatories and “a
ventilating system unequalled in any public
building in America,” the building was com-
pleted in time for the Fall term.
Only 324 students, including college men,
preparatory students and minims, (those be-
tween ages 6 and 13), enrolled. But, for
1880-81, enrollment was 351, which the
University considered very encouraging.
Notre Dame acquired a new president in
1881: Father Thomas Walsh. He was only
28 years old.
The curriculum of the University was the
first matter to receive Father Walsh’s atten-
tion. Observing that attendance at Law
School had generally been good, even when
attendance in the other departments was
down, he persuaded William Hoynes, prom-
inent Chicago lawyer, to come to Notre
Dame to head the Law Department; and he
extended the law course from two to three
years. Law School attendance began imme-
diately to rise still further.
Four-year courses in Civil and Mechanical
Engineering, and a new “Belles Lettres” de-
partment, also were started under direction
of Father Walsh.
In 1882 an addition was made to the
eastern wing of the Administration Building,
thus lengthening what today is known as
Brownson Hall. A 4-story building was
erected for exclusive use of the minims.
It comprised one-half of what is still known
today as St. Edward’s Hall. Plans were
drawn up for the building still known as
Science Hall.
The Laetare Medal (see article on page
19) became an institution in 1883.
And it was in this same busy year that
Albert Zahm, then still a student but des-
tined for international fame in the field of
aeronautics, built the first wind tunnel for
comparing the lift and drag of aeronautical
models.
In 1885, the first “incandescent electric
lights” developed by Edison were installed
in the corridors and study halls of the
Main Building. Soon after, Father Walsh
arranged to have nearly all the buildings
lighted with electricity. The new electric
light, reported an issue of the Scholastic
(1885-’86), was “in every way a cleaner,
brighter and steadier illuminant than any-
thing we have yet seen; and by reason of its
brightness and absolute steadiness, it is as
easy on the eyes as sunlight itself.”
Notre Dame scheduled her first inter-col-
legiate football game in 1887—played with
the University of Michigan on November
23, at Notre Dame.
Michigan’s men, “Champions of the
West,” played according to the rules of Rug-
by football. Notre Dame played a different
style, but agreed to play according to the
Rugby rules if Michigan would first explain
them to the home team.
Notre Dame was defeated 8 to 0. But the
Scholastic edition published just after the
game reported that the contest “had started
an enthusiastic football boom.”
Vol. 2 • Ufa. 2	13

4
Father Peyton
The Telling
By the REV. PATRICK PEYTON, C.S.C
*
i
The author, Notre Dame’s Father Peyton, came to Pennsylvania from his native
Ireland when he was 18. He was graduated from Notre Dame in 1937, but
tuberculosis prevented his being ordained until 1941 (also at Notre Dame).
It: was out of gratitude to Our Lady for restoration of his health that he re-
solved to bring the Family Rosary into 10 million American homes. This is the
story of his success.
4
&
4
'e
rpHE simplest answer that I can give to
-*• the many persons who ask how Family
Rosary broadcasts began is this: it was my
desire to present with all the beauty humanly
possible Mary’s own Rosary story.
What is Mary’s own story?
Will you go back with me, for a few
moments, to the days when Mary, Mother
of Christ, dwelt on this earth. Let’s imagine
a particular family in Jerusalem, a family
seeking truth. One day the father hears a
strange rumor. He brings it home. With
mingled feelings, his wife and children listen.
It seems that a man called Jesus of Naza-
reth, recently crucified, was the long-awaited
Messiah, the Son of God. That, at least,
was the claim made by His followers, who
were said to have worked wonders in His
Name.
If their story be true, then this family
would gladly follow Him. But how can they
be sure? Long they ponder. A happy thought
eventually strikes them. His Mother! She’s
alive! She lives in their own city! They
must visit her and hear the truth from her
own lips.
And so these seekers of truth search and
find knowledge of Him where none will fail
to find it—on the lips of Mary.
* * *
The gracious Lady opens the door of
her home and welcomes them. Smiling gent-
ly, she begins the telling of her story. . . .
THE
A
Shirley Temple and John Agar
Hugh Herbert
Jeanne Crain and Dick Haymes
in God
When I
and the word of His Messenger,
gave my consent, God became Man.
My soul magnifies the Lord,
and my spirit rejoices in God my Saviour;
VISITATION “Imagine my joy,
Because He who is mighty has done great
things for me,
and holy is His name;
And for generation upon generation is His
mercy, to those who fear Him.
He has shown might with’His arm,
He has scattered the proud in the conceit
of their heart.
He has put down the mighty from their
thrones, and has exalted the lowly.
He has filled the hungry with good things,
and the rich He has sent away empty.
He has given help to Israel, His servant,
mindful of His mercy—
Even as He spoke to our fathers—
to Abraham and to His posterity forever!3
THE JOY
THE ANNUNCIATION “I was very
young. I had just finished my schooling in
the temple and had taken up residence at
Nazareth. It was while I was kneeling in
prayer that it happened. I was thinking
about the Holy prophets. How I longed to
be privileged to see in my day the Promised
One! Then the brighest light that I had
ever seen filled the room. In that light I
saw God’s messenger, the angel Gabriel. His
message was that, not only would I see the
Promised of the Lord, but I would be His
Mother. How unworthy I felt. Yet I trusted
too, when the angel told me that my cousin
Elizabeth, who was far advanced in years
and had never had a child, was to become a
mother. Elizabeth lived some distance from
Nazareth, over mountain paths; but I has-
tened to visit her to share her joy in the
child she was to have. It was there, in the ■
presence of Elizabeth and her unborn son,
John, that (in answer to my cousin’s query:
‘Whence is this to me that the Mother of
my God should come to me?’), I spoke
words that rose from the depths of my
heart, praising the goodness of God.
Because He has regarded the lowliness of
His handmaid;
For, behold, henceforth all generations
shall call me blessed;
THE NATIVITY “After three months,
when I had returned to Nazareth, my hus-
band Joseph and I heeded the command of
the emperor to enroll in our native city of
Bethlehem. It was while there for this en-
rollment in the census that He was born.
We felt sad to think that He had to be born
in a stable, but there was no other place.

&
of Her Story
How They Began—the aJoyful Hour,” “Triumph-
ant Hour,” “World’s Greatest Mother” and Other
Family Rosary and Family Theater Broadcasts Heard
on 439 Radio Stations Thanks to Notre Dame’s Father
/ Peyton, the Mutual Broadcasting System and Over
170 Top Radio and Theater Stars.
Angels and shepherds came, however, and
the animals, with their breathing, helped to
keep Him warm.
THE PRESENTATION “Later we took
Him to the temple and presented Him to
the Lord. There we ransomed Him with two
turtle doves. A holy priest named Simeon
spoke to me at that time. I shall never for-
get his words:
“ ‘Behold, this child is destined for the
fall and for the rise of many in Israel, and
for a sign that shall be contradicted. And
thy own soul a sword shall pierce, that the
thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.’
“ ‘Dear Lady, did a sword pierce your
soul as Simeon said it would?’
“Yes, my child. When He was twelve years
old a great; sorrow came to me. . . .
THE FINDING OF THE CHILD “We
had visited the temple and were on our
way home. Suddenly we realized that He
was not with us. We sought Him every-
where. We had lost Him! For three days
my heart was crushed. Never shall I forget
those days, the three endless days until we
found Him.
THE SORROW
THE AGONY IN THE GARDEN “For
many years He remained with us. Then He
left to begin His public ministry. As He
preached, I could see that His people, far
too many of them, would not receive Him—
> would even seek His death. I shall never
forget the last night. After supper with His
chosen ones, He went to an olive orchard
near the city. So intense was His suffering
that blood oozed from the pores of His
skin.
THE SCOURGING “He was taken then
to be scourged by rough men with leaden
whips.
THE CROWNING WITH THORNS
“Then the rude soldiers plaited a crown
of thorns and placed it on His head, making
a mock-King of Him. The thorns penetrated
deeply. The soldiers laughed heartily at
their crude jokes. They even spat in my
Son’s face.
THE CARRYING OF THE CROSS “1
saw Him bent low under the heavy cross
which He carried through the streets of
this very city. He fell. . . .
THE CRUCIFIXION “At length, after
watching Him suffer so painfully, I stood
at the foot of His cross as He offered up
His life. He spoke to me just before He
died.' He asked me to be a mother to the
world—to all His people. That was the
moment when the sword pierced my heart
so that I should never have lived if He had
not supported me!
THE GLORY
THE RESURRECTION “Before His
death, however, my Son promised to rise
from the tomb, to return in glorious risen
life. And He did!
THE ASCENSION “For forty days He
consoled His closest friends and disciples.
Dennis Day
Joe E. Brown
Maureen O'Hara
This is the statue of Our Lady
whmh graced the Mutual Broad-
casting System's Radio Theater,
New York City, during the first
world-wide Family Rosary broad-
cast, May 13, 1945. Francis Car-
dinal Spellman, Bing Crosby and
the Thomas F. Sullivan family
(which lost five sons in the war)
participated.
Dave Young (a director) and Loretta Young
'J	Irene Dunne and Robert Ryan
Then we saw Him ascend through the clouds
to His true home.
THE DESCENT OF THE HOLY GHOST
“Another promise He made and kept, as
He keeps all promises made to His people.
He promised to send the Holy Spirit. Ten
days after His ascent into Heaven the Holy
Spirit came upon the apostles and upon me
in this room in which we are sitting. Then
it was that His apostles and disciples began
to plead His cause and build His Church—
His Church that will be His voice on earth
to the end of time.”
* * *
THE ASSUMPTION—Well may we im-
agine the rapture of such a family as they
heard from Our Lady’s own lips the story of
the five joyful, the five sorrowful and three
glorious mysteries of the present-day Rosa-
ry. After that visit with Our Lady, they
would realize, in time, that there would be
a fourteenth and a fifteenth mystery (the
fourth and fifth glorious ones) : Our Lady’s
assumption into Heaven after her death
and. . .
THE COR ONA TI ON — coronation as
Queen of Heaven of her who had been asked
to share her Mother-love with His world
and His people.
* * *
This is the story Mary tells through her
Rosary. She tells it to families through the
Family Rosary. The Daily Family Rosary
brings this Mary-told story to homes twice
weekly. Twice each week they meditate on
the joyful, sorrowful and glorious mysteries.
So you understand that in order that all
families might be won to this practice, our
world-wide annual Family Rosary broadcasts
must present Mary’s Rosary story in all the
beauty humanly possible. The results have
been magnificent! The response of Catholic
and non-Catholic families has been so spon-
taneous and favorable that Our Lady’s rosa-
ry seems destined to have a prominent place.
in radio for all time. New thousands of let-
ters were received after the most recent
“Joyful Hour”—December 19, 1948.
The annual Family Rosary broadcasts are
the “Joyful Hour” at Christmas, the “Tri-
umphant Hour” at Easter and the “World’s
Greatest Mother” on Mother’s Day. The
1947 “Joyful Hour” was cited by Radio
Annual as one of the five outstanding broad-
casts of the entire year. So great was the
response that it was re-broadcast on Christ-
mas night. The 1948 Family Rosary broad-
casts were heard in the United States, Cana-
da, South America, England, Central
Europe, Australia, Japan and on many ships
at sea.
* * *
What were the beginnings of these Family
Rosary broadcasts ?
They all began in Albany, N. Y., where
the original Family Rosary offices are lo-
cated. Local Station WABY gave time for
the first broadcast. Students of the College
of St. Rose and families of the Albany area
took part. The Family Rosary was actually
recited over the air. This was in 1943.
Encouraged by the reactions of radio
people as well as the listening audience, we
sought free radio time from the Mutual
Broadcasting System for a Mother’s Day
world-wide Family Rosary broadcast. Time
was granted on May 13, 1945. It was an
appropriate day: 28th anniversary of the
first apparition of Our Lady of the Rosary
at Fatima, beginning of the one hundredth
year of dedication of the United States to
the Immaculate Conception. Just before that
broadcast, President Truman declared the
day V-E Day and permitted himself to be
quoted on the program.
His Eminence Francis Cardinal Spellman
of New York presided at the broadcast and
gave the principal address. The Family
Rosary was then led by Mr. and Mrs.
Thomas F. Sullivan and their daughter Gen-
evieve of Waterloo, Iowa. Bing Crosby spoke
briefly at the close of the program.
So immediate and generous was the re-
sponse to this broadcast that the Mutual
Broadcasting System opened its heart to the
Family Rosary and to the Family Prayer
apostolate.
* * *
After this triumph came Family Theater
—a weekly half-hour wholesome radio play
with two one-minute periods for Family
Prayer. Many awards and honors had come
to Family Theater by its second birthday,
February 13, 1949. It is heard each week in
the United States and Canada, and else-
where by short-wave. More than 170 radio
and motion picture stars gladly offer their
services.
How did I make the contacts ? Let Loretta
Young tell you. This is how she told it in
the November 14 issue of The Time, Family
Rosary Crusade paper:
Scene: Loretta Young’s sick room.
Caller: Rev. Patrick Peyton, director of
the Family Rosary Crusade.
“His project that afternoon was the Fami-
ly Theater, at that time only the germ of
an idea, one of the devices to be used to
spread the elementary story of the need of
the world for, and our Blessed Mother’s
desire to, restore to family units and nations
alike the great practice and protection of
family prayer. Of course, that isn’t the way
Father Peyton told the story that day. He
was shy, and he perspired through the first
five minutes of our talk. So I said, ‘What
do you want to tell me, Father? We have
lots of time. I’m confined to this bed, so
I can’t walk out of the room to do some-
thing else. I’ve nowhere to go, and nothing
to do but listen. No need for hurry for you
OR for me.’
“ ‘God love you!’ he said in that brogue
of his. ‘May I call you Loretta?’
“ ‘Certainly,’ I said.
“ ‘Good, then. Now when I was a boy in
Ireland . . .’ and the brogue became richer
with reminiscence. There followed a story
of homeliness and simplicity and great beau-
ty, the story of his family ‘getting on its
knees and saying the rosary together; the
invalid father, the lovely, careworn mother,
the children of all ages and heights like the
steps of a ladder. And, as they grew, they
spread out but did not break up; for the
bond of family prayer cannot be broken by
time, distance or death.’
“I listened,” Loretta went on, “caught up
in this story, and I could see them all. I
could sense the joy of the mother with two
sons studying for the priesthood together. I
could feel, too, the disappointment when
Father Pat became gravely ill and his ordi-
nation seemed farther away than ever—

could feel—oh, how well I could feel—their
# joy at his cure, his ordination, and the dedi-
cation of his life and the merits of his
priesthood to Our Lady.
“ ‘What do you want me to do, Father?’
I asked.
“ ‘Help me,’ he said. ‘Help get the Holly-
wood stars behind me in this program so
that one of the networks will give me time.
Tell me you’ll do the first one yourself, and
how to go about getting the others.’
“ ‘I’ll do the first one,’ I said, ‘and you
don’t need me to help you get the others.
Just tell them your story. I know actors. I’ve
been one since I was a baby. I’ll talk it
over with you, but you’ll do it.’
)	“ ‘God love you, Loretta, for using your
talent for Our Lady’.”
* * *
Perhaps you’d be interested in knowing
how I got the support of Jim and Marian
Jordan, known to radio listeners as Fibber
McGee and Molly. According to them, this
is what happened:
“A phone call came from a Father Pat-
rick Peyton, who wanted us to do a broad-
cast on a new program he was planning. In
radio, you get used to requests for guest
broadcasts—everything from worthy charity
drives to the Society for the Preservation of
Left-Handed Basket Weaving or National
’ Eat-a-Stewed-Prune Day. But when this
earnest young Irish priest arrived at the
house to tell us more about this dream of
his, it was apparent right away that this
was different. In fact, his idea was so com-
pletely different that, if he had been a little
more radio-wise, he’d have realized how
impossible it was—and probably given up.
“But it seemed simple to Father Peyton,”
Fibber and Molly went on. “All he in-
tended to do was to ask one of the big radio
networks to give $10,000 or $15,000 worth
of free time on the air each week, get as
many film and radio names as he needed,
, and do a weekly half-hour broadcast!
“The show wasn’t intended to make any-
body rich—just happy. It wasn’t designed
to raise funds—just morale. He wasn’t go-
ing to ask his listeners to reach into their
B	pockets—just into their hearts. And the
theme of the show was one of the oldest in
the world, a theme Christ Himself gave us
in five simple words: ‘Ask and ye shall
receive.’ Prayer—that was what his com-
mercials would be about—that was the prod-
uct his show would sell. Family prayer. The
Family Rosary. Yes, it was different, all
right!
“We added our names to his list, of
course; and the more we thought about it,
the more obviously logical Father Peyton’s
idea seemed.”
* * *
Because of the success of Family Theater,
the Mutual Broadcasting System made time
available for the Joyful Hour, Triumphant
Hour and Mother’s Day Family Rosary
broadcasts—which have done so much to
give Mary a wonderful new means to “tell
her story.” Beautiful orchestral and choral
music numbers are interwoven with the
voices of some 35 Catholic stars to form the
background for Our Lady’s message. May
all the families of the world draw closer to
' Him who is the Way, the Truth and the
Light—by listening to Mary in the “telling
of her story.”
The Review of Polities
(Continued from Page 9)
Review of Politics, observed: “Of course, it
is the great staff and physical facilities that
make such achievements possible.”
What the editor of the Irish publication
didn’t know was that probably no other
major publication in the nation has less of a
staff or less physical facilities than the Re-
view. The office is still where it was when
the magazine was founded, and it is still
just as small—sharedj by Dr. Gurian, a sec-
retary who helps him with his paper-grading
details, and another University professor. Dr.
Gurian and his associate editors carry full
scholastic burdens, teaching several classes
each week. The Review is a side project.
All office work is handled by Miss Laura
Beaulieu, the secretary. She is business man-
ager, circulation manager, corresponding sec-
retary, general assistant for the magazine—
and personal secretary for both Dr. Gurian
and the Rev. Francis J. Boland, C.S.G.,
head of the Department of Political Science.
With such a small staff and so few facil-
ities, the marvel is that the Review is pub-
lished at all. That it is published, and that
it has become one of the world’s outstanding
periodicals, are sources of great pride—to
Dr. Gurian, to his staff and to Notre Dame.
Dr. Waldemar Gurian, professor of
Political Science at the University of
Notre Dame, was elected first vice-
president of the national Catholic His-
torical Association at a recent meet-
ing in Washington, D. C.
Dr. Gurian, editor of The Review
of Politics, published at Notre Dame,
automatically will become president of
the organization in 1950, according
to the rules of the Association. He has
been a frequent contributor to the
Catholic Historical Review, published
by the Association (which is com-
prised of teachers of history and allied
subjects in Catholic universities and
colleges throughout the United
States).
JL Room to Write In
(Continued from Page 8)
coat pocket, writing on the run. The first
half-dozen of these paragraphs were scribbl-
ed at 8,000 feet between Pittsburgh and
New York; these finishing notes are being
put down in the front seat of our car, now
bouncing through Lowell, Miss., on the way
back to Chicago from a Sugar Bowl vaca-
tion in New Orleans [while Cullen spends a
week in Pittsburgh with his grandparents].
Not ideal composing conditions, perhaps.
Transitions between paragraphs are apt to be
jerky—especially when Betsy comes as close
to the back end of a cow as she did about
10 miles the other side of Hattiesburg—but
in many ways this beats working at home,
which is not the soft touch commuters think
it is.
Working at home starts at 6 a. m. with
a bottle for Cullen, and there is not much
point in trying to go back to sleep after
that. At 10, Cullen goes for a ride and the
carriage has to be wheeled out of my office
and down the front steps by guess who, or
is it whom? At 11:30, Cullen lunches, and
somehow or other it is always the husband
who works at home who ends up feeding
the baby. Don’t ask me how it happens.
Sometimes, Betsy feeds Cullen and then
you’ve got to be careful. First thing you
know, she’s got her hat on and she’s saying:
. . Now Gully’s clean and he’s fed and
he’ll be asleep in a few minutes. Won’t be
a bit of trouble. Just give him his bottle
when he wakes up at four. I’m going to
run into town to shop. Be back about 5:30
. . . and Cullen, you be a good boy and let
your daddy get his work done. . . .
Those are the afternoons that take you
back to the peace and quiet of old Freshman
Hall. Somehow or other, the column ends
up in the mailbox every Monday morning,
but I still say anybody who writes for mag-
azines should have a room of his own to
write in. I’m going to have one myself in
1967. Cullen has promised me his—the Sep-
tember he enrolls at Notre Dame.
Knute Rockne
(Continued from Page 6)
Chapel, a replica of the first Notre Dame
campus building, on the evening preceding
the Northwestern game.
He was rather nervous, which was prob-
ably caused as much by thoughts of the
Wildcat line as of the impending ceremony.
Hoping to relieve a noticeable tension, the
priest asked Mr. Rockne to strike a match
and light the candle which was to be used
for the Baptism. Rock looked at the small,
lone tallow and quipped in his inimitable
manner, “Say, Father, looks like you’re
short on wax out here.”
Knute Rockne’s high ideals were exempli-
fied in fervent devotion to his God, his
family and his Alma Mater. The University
of Notre Dame will always cherish the mem-
ory of him who could be described so sim-
ply, yet so aptly, as one of Our Lady’s most
outstanding sons.
Sales Executives in
Higher Salary Bracket
More than 43 per cent of the 10,000
individual sales executives who are members
of the National Federation of Sales Execu-
tives earn more than $15,000 a year, ac-
cording to the results of a study just com-
pleted. These facts are disclosed in a booklet
called “Portrait of a Modern Sales Execu-
tive”, based on a survey by Brooks Smeeton,
assistant professor of Marketing at the Uni-
versity of Notrq Dame.
More than 11 per cent earn more than
$30,000 a year, and at the other extreme
only 5.4 per cent earn less than $6,000. Al-
together, only 27 per cent earn less than
$10,000, and another 30 per cent are in the
$10,000 to $15,000 bracket.
The Federation’s 10,000 individual mem-
bers are associated with companies employ-
ing nearly 2,000,000 salesmen.
Vol. 2 • No. 2	17

ND Scientist Among "Top Ten" .
of Nation’s Young Men in ID
Dr. Charles A. Hufnagel, Notre Dame ’37, is the subject of a timely and inter-
esting feature story by Eleanor Roberts, staff writer, ip a recent edition of the
Boston Sunday Post. A brilliant scientist, Hufnagel has been selected, by the
U. S. Junior Chamber of Commerce, as one of the nation's 10 outstanding
young men of 1948. With the permission of the Sunday Editor, Boston Post,	<
Notre Dame is privileged to reprint extracts from the original story.
T^R- Charlie Hufnagel was in that half-way
land between sleep and consciousness
when he heard the clock strike two.
Suddenly, he leaped out of bed, turned on
the lamp and yelled, “Zowie, I’ve got it.”
;Kathie Hufnagel opened one eye sleepily,
surveyed her young husband who, by that
time, was busily scribbling his ideas on a
pad of paper, and turned over.
Charlie was at it again!
This time, he told his wife over the orange
juice the next morning, it was the craziest
idea. A lucite tube for bridging gaps in the
aorta, the big vessel leading out of the heart.
If it proved practical it meant thousands of
people stricken, with a certain^ type of heart
ailment would be saved, through this un-
usual surgical technique.
Charlie Hufnagel didn’t dare to hope. “It
was just the craziest idea,” he said boyishly
last week in his office at the Harvard Med-
ical School where he is an instructor in
surgery.
There was nothing daft about that two-
in-the morning brainstorm, however. The
seemingly simple, but actually complicated
lucite tube that will make surgery possible
for heretofore hopeless heart cases, brought
to Hufnagel the honor of being named “one
of the nation’s 10 outstanding young men
of 1948.”
A United States Junior Chamber of Com-
merce award, Hufnagel was among the win-
ners selected by a panel of 13 judges which
included President Dwight D. Eisenhower of
Columbia University and Harold E. Stassen,
president of the University of Pennsylvania
—last week he was on his way to St. Jo-
seph, Mo., to receive the award.
Only 32 years old, Dr. Hufnagel proudly
wears the loudest ties at Harvard Medical
School, smokes a pipe, longs to own a 20-
carat star ruby and is unquestionably one
of the most brilliant research men of his
time.
He likes to quip, “Sculpturing is my work
and medicine my hobby,” but the fold-away
cot in the corner of Dr. Hufnagel’s combi-
nation laboratory-office belies this. Many a
night is spent at the Harvard Laboratory
Notre Dame's Dr. Hufnagel — an
outstanding young man
for Surgical Research because the doctor,
impatient at interruption, wants to see an
experiment through.
It is this dogged persistence, this discip-
line of thought, which Hufnagel attributes to
his Notre Dame training, plus a touch of
pure genius that has enabled the young doc-
tor to achieve such outstanding success.
Hufnagel, who is also a junior associate
in surgery at the Peter Bent Brigham Hos-
pital, has been working on the intubation
technique of using plastic tubings for bridg-
ing gaps in the aorta.
Hufnagel is nonchalant almost to the point
of embarrassment about his achievements, a
humility engendered, no doubt, by the Fa-
thers of the Congregation of Holy Cross at
Notre Dame. The young doctor’s personal-
ity is the perfect culture for the seeds of
modesty and unpretentiousness.
Very much the perfectionist, Dr. Hufnagel
is a stickler for detail. He is convinced that
his disciplined thinking which is responsible
for leaving no stone unturned, no avenue un-
explored, is due to the influence of the
priests who taught him at Notre Dame.
“Father Francis Wenninger, the well-
known biologist who was dean of the college
of science when I was a student at Notre
Dame, was an extremely disciplined think-
er,” Dr. Hufnagel pointed out.
“It was he who impressed on me the
value of learning how to concentrate, of
thinking creatively. His great theme was
that we were not only to learn the facts, but
to learn how to think.
“The discipline was strict at Notre Dame
and that was good. Too few of us realize the
value of a certain amount of discipline. I
have been grateful for it, particularly in my
work here at the laboratory when I found
everything opening up before me.”
“You find you’ve gone on a great, scurry-
ing chase with no results. The possibilities
are so numerous that it becomes a matter
of sheer chance when we see so many vistas
opening up before us.
“That’s where the value of disciplined
thinking comes in. You’ve got to finish the
original problem before pursuing the next
one. What seems promising may prove utter-
ly wrong and what looks hopeless may offer
you the solution.”
Methodical, painstaking Hufnagel, inves-
tigates even the most remote possibilities
carefully. A stickler for detail, he has had
phenomenal success in preserving blood ves-
sels by freezing.
While other laboratories have had diffi-
culty in making the grafts survive, Hufnagel
has succeeded because of the extreme care
he takes with each step and because of his
wealth of experience in this work.
When his technique is perfected it will
mean that banks for blood vessels can be
set up just as banks for eyes or for blood.
Various hospitals throughout the country
already have banks for preserving the ves-
sels at a low temperature, but the freezing
technique means they will keep longer and
be more readily available.
Both Hufnagel and his wife are mad
about ceramics and their home on Brown
Street, in Brookline, looks like a pottery
works.
Now Hufnagel is working on casting in
plastics and bemoaning the fact that there
aren’t enough hours in the day to allow him
to pursue another hobby, photography.
18 Notre Dame
(The author will graduate from No-
tre Dame as a journalism major in
June, 1949 and become a reporter on
the Rochester (N. Y.) Democrat and
Chronicler. He has conducted a col-
umn for the Scholastic., Notre Dame
student weekly; written for Concord,
national Catholic monthly distributed to
high school and college students, and
was a reporter on Stars and Stripes offi-
cial Army newspaper, in World War
II. He is from Naples, N. Y., and a
member of the Notre Dame Student
Council).
By ROBERT J. VIERHIEE
THE AMERICAN GOLDEN ROSE—“worn
only by men and women whose genius has ennobled
the arts and sciences, illustrated the ideals of the
Church, and enriched the heritage of humanity.”
"VTOTRE Dame and America will long ap-
preciate a discussion which took place
on a cold evening in January, 1883.
Several professors huddled close to a glow-
ing pot-belly stove. Of equal warmth was
their discussion of whom in America was
the greatest living Catholic layman. Several
names—an Irish author, a German jurist,
an English engineer—were proposed. Finally
James Edwards, the youngest of the group
and newest member of the Notre Dame fac-
ulty, hit upon the idea that some kind of
annual award should be given the outstand-
ing member of the Catholic laity in America.
Professor Edwards was firm and definite
in what he wanted. “Men and women who
or woman of the Catholic laity for distin-
guished service in promoting Catholic ideals.
Part of the significance of this award is
derived from its traditional presentation on
Laetare Sunday. The ceremony finds its ori-
gin in the Divine Office of that day—when
the priest commemorates the call of Moses
to the leadership of God’s chosen people.
From ancient times this mid-Sunday of Lent
has been a day of rejoicing. The first word
of the Mass is Laetare, meaning “Rejoice.”
The Laetare Medal presentation is the
American counterpart of an early papal cus-
tom. Beginning in the middle of the 11th
century, the popes presented the Golden
Rose, a precious and sacred ornament of
pure gold, to some person, government,
church or city conspicuous for its Catholic
spirit and loyalty to the Holy See.
The practice changed slightly when the
papacy moved to Avignon. It became the
custom to give the papal rose to the most
worthy prince of the court. This was later
modified to include Catholic kings, queens,
princes, princesses, renowned generals or
other distinguished persons.
The significance of the rose and Laetare
Sunday, the day on which it was blessed,
have so blended that the day is now called
(Continued on Page 21)
have added lustre to the name of the Amer-
y ican Catholic by their talent and virtues
deserve good will and encouragement,” he
told his friends. “I think our University
might well take some definite action in that
regard.”
Edwards next went to Rev. Edward Sorin,
C.S.C., founder of Notre Dame, and Rev.
Thomas E. Walsh, C.S.C., then president.
He wanted action: “I think Notre Dame
should take the initiative in acknowledge-
ment of what is done by American Catho-
lics for faith, morals, education and good
citizenship.”
Within the year, the first Laetare Medal
was awarded to John Gilmary Shea, the
-4 historian. And for the next 65 years on the
fourth Sunday of Lent, Notre Dame annual-
ly presented this award to an American man
Most Rev. John F. O'Hara, C.S.C., Bishop of Buffalo (former President of Notre
Dame) looks on in New York City as Francis Cardinal Spellman pins 1948 Laetare
Medal on Hon. Frank C. Walker, former U. S. Postmaster General, member of Notre
Dame Board of Trustees and Notre Dame Foundation Chairman in New York City.
Spring Sports
By JO1IX B. KENNEDY
The author, a journalism senior, is a previous con-
tributor to Notre Dame and has assisted Sports
Publicist Callahan in the University's Department of
Public Information. Kennedy lives in Washington,
D. C.
SPRING FOOTBALL
Minus 13 departed monogram winners and
faced with, the stiffest schedule in years,
Coach Frank Leahy is in the midst of spring
football practice and wondering about the
freshmen—the usual unknown quantity—
whose fall practice sessions indicated some
backfield help and a potentially good tackle
named Bob Tbneff.
Big “if’s” for Coach Leahy: (1) Can he
secure tackle and guard strength and (2)
will Bob Williams prove a worthy successor
to Bertelli, Ratterman, Lujack and Tripucka
as the important T-quarterback?
Co-captains Leon Hart and Jim Martin
will provide experience at ends; and Bill
Wightkin, Bill Flynn, Ray Espenan and
Doug Waybright give Leahy and End Coach
Johnny Druze good depth.
The situation is different at tackle and
guard. Ralph McGehee, a semi-regular, re-
turns at one tackle position and another with
experience is Gus Cifelli, who usually served
as McGehee’s replacement and twice was a
starter himself. Ed Hudak has potentialities
and Al Zmijewski some experience. With
the possible exception of Sophomore Ton-
eff, there are no George Connors or Ziggie
Czarobskis on the horizon.
All-American Guards Marty Wendell and
Captain Bill Fischer are gone. Leahy, assisted
by Joe McArdle, is looking at Bob Lally, a
pretty good line-backer who has the most
experience but lacks weight. Frank (Rodney)
Johnson showed fairly well late in the
1948 season, and Jim Dailer is another with
some experience.
Walt Grothaus and Jerry Groom will take
care of the center chores. Gerry Begley will
help Williams at quarterback. Bill Gay fig-
ures to do well at left halfback with Leo
McKillip as a reserve. Emil Sitko, Larry
Coutre and Jack Landry will take good care
of right half and Mike Swistowicz should be
the No. 1 fullback.
The 1949 football schedule:
Sept.	24	Indiana at Notre Dame
Oct.	1	Washington at Seattle
Oct.	8	Purdue at Lafayette
Oct.	15	Tulane at Notre Dame
Oct.	22	Open
Oct.	29	Navy at Baltimore
Nov. 5 Michigan State at East Lansing
Nov. 12 North Carolina at New York
Nov. 19 Iowa at Notre Dame
Nov. 26 Southern California at Notre Dame
Dec. 3 Southern Methodist at Dallas
TRACK
The Notre Dame track team will again
rely on balance and depth in the distances
and middle-distances, this year, to carry it
through rigorous indoor and outdoor seasons.
Captain Bill Leonard will be the Irish
mile and 880-yard mainstay. Ray Sobota and
Pat Kenny are two other capable half-milers.
Vai Muscato shows promise of becoming an
outstanding first-year competitor in the half-
mile and 600-yard events.
Coach Elvin “Doc” Handy has five out-
standing quarter-milers including Sobota,
Kenny, Steve Provost, Paul Schwetschenau
and Bob Smith—a potentially capable mile
relay unit. Smith also is the best dash man,
better at 100 and 220 yards than 60. Bill
Fleming, top Irish scorer last season, has a
bad heel but may well score most high hurdle
points. Veterans Bob McDavid, and new-
comers John Worthington, Tom Devine and
footballer Leo McKillip, are other hurdlers.
Jim Murphy heads the list of two-milers,
aided by Jim Kittell, Lou Tracy and Jim
Kelly. Kittell doubles in the mile run. John
Helwig, football tackle, looms as leading can-
didate in the weights.
X
The tentative 1949 indoor track schedule:
Jan. 28 Michigan A.A.U. Meet at
Ann Arbor, Mich.
Feb. 5 Michigan State Relays, East
Lansing, Mich.
Feb. 12	Purdue, here
Feb. 19	Bradley Tech,	here
Feb. 26	Tentative meet	away
Mar. 5 Central Collegiate, East Lansing, Mich.
Mar. 12	Indiana, here
Mar. 18	K. of C., Cleveland
(outstanding men only)
Mar. 19 Chicago Relays at Chicago, III.
(outstanding men only)
Mar. 26 Purdue Relays, Lafayette, Ind.
FENCING
With 12 monogram men from last year’s
team, which won nine out of 10 matches,
Coach Herb Melton was pleased at early-
season results this year. Six of the 12 vet-
erans earned monograms in each of the two
post-war years in which Notre Dame has
had a fencing team. Notre Dame’s all-time
record in fencing stands at 58 victories, 25
defeats and two ties.
Veterans are Ralph Witucki, Robert Bos- V
ler, Louis Burns, Michael DiCicco, Ralph
Dixon, Jerry Dobyns, James Jensen, Thomas
Roney, Gerald Lubin, Colin McDonald,
Robert Schlosser and John Vincent. DiCicco
graduated at the end of the first semester.
The 1949 fencing schedule:
Jan. 15	Illinois Tech, here (N. D. won)
Jan. 22	Chicago, here (N. D. won)
Jan. 29 Michigan State, at East Lansing, Mich.
(N. D. won)
Feb. 5	Illinois, here (N. D. won)
Feb. 12	Open
Feb. 18	Case Institute, at Cleveland
(N. D. won)
Feb. 26	Northwestern,	here	(N. D. won)
Mar. 5	Open
Mar. 12	Detroit, there
Mar. 19	Wisconsin, at Madison
Mar. 25-26 National Inter colie giates at
West Point, N. Y.
The Taetare Medal
(Continued from Page 19)
Rose Sunday. On this day rose-colored vest-
ments and altar decorations (sign of hope
and joy) are substituted for the penitential
purple of Lent.
The design of the Laetare Medal was pat-
terned after the first Golden Rose bestow-
ed by the papacy. It is a piece of skilled
craftsmanship. From a gold bar hangs a
solid disc bearing the raised words “Laetare
Medal.” On the opposite side is the sen-
tence, Magna est veritas et praevalebit
(Truth is mighty and will prevail). The
profession of the recipient is symbolized and
his name is engraved on this side, along with
the name of the University.
Originally the medal was presented to its
recipient on Laetare Sunday. This, however,
was soon found to be impractical. Now the
recipient’s name is disclosed at that time,
and the presentation takes place at a later
and more convenient date.
The Laetare Medal has been awarded
to men and women of varied professions. The
fields of law, medicine, drama, journalism,
history, literature, statesmanship and phil-
anthropy have all had their champions ac-
knowledged and honored by the University.
Laetare Medalists include such notable
names as Albert Francis Zahm, scientist; Al-
fred Emanuel Smith, statesman and presi-
dential candidate; John McCormack, artist;
General Hugh Aloysius Drum, soldier; Ed-
ward Douglas White, chief justice of the
Supreme Court; Helen Constance White,
author; and Frank C. Walker, past post-
master general. The University has recog-
nized 51 men and 14 women with this
honor.
The process for the selection of the Lae-
tare Medalist is a searching and fair one.
The choice is made by the University of No-
tre Dame Committee of Award, which is
headed by the president of the University.
Ten members of the faculty, selected by the
president, make up this committee. It meets
three times before the final selection.
At the first meeting, names held over from
the previous year are read and considered
and new names are added to this permanent
list. At this time a vote is taken to select
names for investigation and consideration.
Before the second meeting, further infor-
mation concerning the eligibility of the men
and women on the list is secured. A thor-
ough discussion precedes the balloting, which
narrows the list of candidates to three.
If satisfactory information is now at hand
on the three names selected, an approach is
made to sources capable of giving a full
and unbiased report, particularly on the
Catholicity of the candidates. All informa-
tion is held in strict confidence. And, finally,
at the third meeting, all three candidates
are discussed and the final vote taken.
Thus do Catholicism and Notre Dame
recognize America’s most talented and de-
serving men and women who have rendered
special service to religion and humanity.
The University of Notre Dame has shown
that it recognizes the need of Catholic lead-
ership in the laity. That this leadership can
be found is evidenced by the long list of
men and women who have received this hon-
or. That this leadership is necessary can
best be seen in a quick look at the chaotic
world of today.
The pattern of Catholic zeal and achieve-
ment established by the Laetare Medalist
should be the model for every American
Catholic. The following excerpt from the
citation accompanying the Laetare Medal
presented to Major General William Stark
Rosecrans, in 1896, is a significant appraisal
of this pattern:
“The Laetare Medal has been worn only
by men and women whose genius has en-
nobled the arts and sciences, illustrated the
ideals of the Church, and enriched the heri-
tage of humanity.’’
Notre Dame Student
Awarded Rhodes Scholarship
James J. Greene, of St. John’s, Newfound-
land, a graduate student at the University
of Notre Dame, has been named the 1949
Rhodes Scholar from Newfoundland, accord-
ing to an announcement by the Selection
Committee for Newfoundland of the Rhodes
Scholarship Trust.
Greene, 20 years old, is studying for a
Master of Arts degree in the Notre Dame
Graduate School. He received a Bachelor
of Arts degree with Cum Laude honors from
Notre Dame in August, 1948, after gradu-
ating in 1945 from St. Bonaventure College
(preparatory school) in Newfoundland.
The Notre Dame graduate student will
begin studies under the Rhodes Scholarship
Next September at Oxford University in
England.
PHOTO CREDITS — Photographs
for this issue of Notre Dame were
furnished through the courtesy of Col-
lier’s Promotion Department, Dr.
George F. Hennion, Notre Dame’s De-
partment of Public Information, Rev.
Patrick Peyton, C.S.C., Wally Kunkle
and the Boston Sunday Post.
Notre Dame Receives Gifts
Totaling $614,939.42 in 1948
Gifts totaling $614,939.42, representing
urgently-needed financial aid in the Uni-
versity’s long-range endowment and physical
expansion program, were received in 1948
by Notre Dame from alumni and non-
alumni friends, according to Rev. Robert
H. Sweeney, C.S.C., Executive Assistant to
the President.
The total, according to Father Sweeney,
is $63,136.42 greater than the amount given
to the University in 1947. In addition to the
cash gifts, Notre Dame received numerous
gifts of equipment, publications, subscrip-
tions and other incidentals valued at thou-
sand of dollars.
Notre Dame alumni gave $451,898.28 of
the total amount given to the Foundatipn,
of which $280,881.81 was restricted and
$171,016.47 was unrestricted, Father Sween-
ey said. Of the $163,041.14 contributed to
Notre Dame by friends of the University,
$59,789.73 was restricted, and $103,251.41
was unrestricted.
The University received as a bequest from
one alumnus a total of $112,853.31. This
money has been placed in a permanent en-
dowment fund, the income of which will be
used to offset some of the expenses involved
in educating seminarians who are prepar-
ing for the priesthood at Notre Dame. An-
other alumnus donated $100,000 toward a
Liberal and Fine Arts building fund. A total
of $18,410.50 was donated to the Univer-
sity by Notre Dame Alumni Clubs in cities
throughout the United States.
Excluding the two capital gifts to the
University, the average alumnus gift to No-
tre Dame in 1948 was $3.31 higher than in
1947. The University also was encouraged
by 2,500 new gifts during the past year. It
was pointed out that 2,000 donors in 1948
increased their gifts over 1947.
Kresge Foundation Sponsors
Lab in New Science Building
A gift of $25,000, to be used for the con-
struction of an Electronics Laboratory in
the new $1,750,000 Science Building at the
University of Notre Dame, has been received
by Notre Dame from the Kresge Founda-
tion in Detroit, Mich., according to an an-
nouncement by the Rev. Robert H. Sweeney,
C.S.C., Executive Assistant to the President
at Notre Dame.
The gift was secured through the efforts
and cooperation of Paul W. Voorhies, Presi-
dent of the Kresge Foundation, and the
Honorable Harry F. Kelly, a graduate of
Notre Dame in 1917, who is a former gover-
nor of Michigan and is a Notre Dame
Foundation Committeeman in Detroit.
Construction of the New Science Build-
ing at Notre Dame, which will begin as soon
as necessary funds are available, will greatly
alleviate crowded conditions currently exist-
ing in the Chemistry, Physics and Mathe-
matics departments at the University.
Vol. 9
No. 9
91
University of Notre Dame du Lag
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1948
the New
|	Income and Expense
Income from:
i	Student Fees------------------..-------------$4,810,020.79
;	General Endowment and Scholarships —......... 100,653.17
U. S. Government Reimbursement for
Research and Services------------------ 341,218.53
Funds Applied to Current Restricted Expenditures:
For Research from Industrial Sources------- 69,479.29
For Fellowships, Awards, etc.,
from Private Sources........................ 65,664.49
Financial Income and Miscellaneous ---------- 200,875.53
It is our hope that the following analysis may suggest
a component of the projected Science Building which you
may wish to make your own gift, in whole or in part—
a living, useful memorial of your own interest and generos-
ity, or in memory of a relative or friend.
$5,587,911.80
Net Income, Auxiliary Departments:
Athletic ...................................... $	185,466.71
Book Store....................................  55,491.43
Other_________________________________________ 9,797.04
Net Income from Auxiliary Departments______$ 250,755.18
Total Income
______________________________$5,838,666.98
Operating Expenses:
College of Arts and Letters_____________________$1,076,409.46
College of Science...............................  972,887.07
College of Engineering............................ 679,947.37
College of Commerce------------------------------- 283,521.45
College of Law____________________________________ 124,964.16
R. O. T. C. Courses ............................    25,525.61
Student Activities and Publications............... 174,285.13
Residence Halls ---------------------------------- 647,309.28
Dining Halls____________________________________ 1,497,612.78
Student Service Departments __________________     276,678.43
Scholarships and Fellowships...................... 117,662.65
Total Operating Expenses ..................$5,876,803.39
NET LOSS ___________________________________________$ 38,136.41
Balance Sheet
ASSETS
Current ------------------------------------------$ 5,337,160.69
Accounts Receivable—Stadium Boxes..................... 20,379.00
Prepaid Expenses and Deferred Charges ________________ 53,407.38
Other Assets _________________________________________ 5,225.13
Buildings and Equipment........................... 10,180,239.78
Fund Assets:
Restricted with University._$1,639,204.21
Board of Lay Trustees------- 5,748,728.25
Student Loan Funds..........	15,285.69	7,403,218.15
TOTAL ------------------------------------$22,999,630.13
LIABILITIES
Current ---------------------------------------------$ 2,799,316.44
Deferred Income (Advance Stadium Sales) ................  56,021.32
Surplus ...........................................   12,741,074.22
Fund Accountabilities:
Restricted with University ....$1,639,204.21
Board of Lay Trustees_______ 5,748,728.25
Student Loan Funds..........	15,285.69	7,403,218.15
TOTAL -------------------------------------.$22,999,630,13
Independent Areas					Y
Library (2 floors) (1st floor) 				Size 40x90 21 x 90	Cubic Ft. 39,600 18,900 58,500 ;	Cost £114,074	
	(2nd floor) 						
47	Mathematics Units 		....	 10 x 15 Ground Floor Chemistry Size		77,700 Ea. 3,224 Total 151,515 Cubic Ft. Cost		
1.	Elementary Physical Chemistry Lab.	31 x40	16,120	$31,434	
2.	Advanced Chemistry Laboratory ....	22x20	5,720	11,154	
3.	Balance Room 				22x10	2,860	5,577	
4.	Office 						22x10	2,860	5,577	
5.	Instrument Room 				22 x 10	2,860	5,577	
6.	Phy. Chern. Research Control 			22x20	5,720	11,154	
7.	Physical Chemistry Research 		22x20	5,720	11,154	
8.	Auxiliary Room 						20x10	2,860	5,577	
9.	Research Room 				21x21	5,733	11,178	1
10.	Dark Room 								lOx 15	1,950	3,803	I
11.	Large Phy. Chem. Stock Room 		31x44	17,732	34,577	k
12.	Counter Laboratory 		13 x22	3,718	7,251	
13.	Small Phy. Chem. Stock Room 			16x22	4,576	8,923	
14.	Physical Chemistry Research Room.—	19x20	4,940	9,633	
15.	Large Lecture Room 				35 x 60	27,300	55,235	
16.	Lecture Preparation Room 			10x35	4,550	8,873	
17.	Small Lecture Room 		 Physics	30x40	15,600	31,420	
18.	Lecture Room 						35x40	18,200	36,840	
19.	Lecture Preparation Room 				20x35	9,100	17,745	
20.	Small Nuclear Physics Room 		15x40	7,800	15,210	
21.	Dark Room 					16x10	2,080	4,056	
22.	Large Nuclear Physics Room 			29x40	15,080	29,406	
23.	Polymer Laboratory 					15 x 12	2,340	4,563	
24.	Shops 							51 x60	39,780	77,571	
25.	Stock Room 		22x30	8,580	16,731	
26.	Manifold Storage Room 		16x20	4,160	8,112	
27.	Generator Room 	   30	x 100 39,000 First Floor Chemistry Size Cubic Pt.			76,050 Cost	
1.	Advanced Quantitative Analysis 		22x31	7,502	14,630	
2.	Quantitative Laboratory 		40x90	39,600	77,220	\
3.	Quantitative Organic Analysis 		22x40	9,680	18,876	
4.	Quantitative Preparation Room 		20x10	2,200	4,290	
5.	Organic Research 						28x22	6,776	13,213	
6.	Auxiliary Organic Room 		20x25	5,500	10,725	
7.	Classroom Number One 					20 x 19	4,180	8,151	
8.	Classroom Number Two 		20x19	4,180	8,151	
9.	Conference Room 		13 x 19	2,717	5,298	
10.	Administrative Room 		20x34	7,480	14,586	
11.	Micro-Film Reading Room 		 Physics	10x17	1,870	3,647	
12.	Staff Room 						17x22	4,114	8,023	
13.	Library Work Room 				17 x 13	2,431	4,741	
14.	Administrative 	    .572	Sq. Ft.		6,292	12,269	
15.	Dark Room 		8 x 12	1,056	2,059	
16.	Small Nuclear Physics Room 		15x68	11,220	21,879	X
17.	Large Nuclear Physics Room 			29x61	19,459	37,945	
18.	Large Electronics Room 						29x90	28,710	55,985	
19.	Small Electronics Room 			15x70	11,550	22,523	
22
Notre Dame

Science Building
In Behalf of the h/Voral Responsibilities
of Science in the Atomic Age
A new Science and Mathematics Classroom-Laboratory
Building must be Notre Dame’s answer to a current inade-
quacy of facilities out of all proportion to the unique oppor-
tunities for service which have come to her in the wake of
a superb record in Science. It is a most important and
urgent part of Notre Dame’s building program.
How fortunate that such opportunities have come to
Notre Dame where tomorrow’s scientist-citizens cannot fail
to remember that God is the Giver of all truths which man
can hope to find through Science.
We believe, with Newman, that “there is no science but
tells a different tale when viewed as a poition of a whole,
from what is likely to suggest when taken by itself.” We
believe, with Chesterton, that, while “ignorance of the other
world is boasted by many men of science, their defect arises,
not from ignorance of the other world, but from ignorance
of this world.” We believe in training not merely good sci-
entists, but good and well-rounded men who are also good
scientists. And nowhere is aggressive scientific inquiry more
carefully guided by a reverence of Christian truth than here
at Notre Dame.
But our opportunity has yet to be realized. And Notre
Dame receives no subsidy from State or Church!
ONLY with your help can Notre Dame attain the
$1,400,000 which it must add to the $350,000 allocated
from previous unrestricted Foundation gifts—to build its
new Science Building in 1949. Those of you who will want
to help, even in the smallest way, will have our continuing
prayers and our everlasting gratitude.
	Second Floor			
	Chemistry			
		Size	Cubic Ft.	Cost
1.	Organic Laboratory 	4,720	Sq. Ft.		51,920 £101,244	
2.	Preparation Room 		10x22	2,420	4,719
3.	Organic Stock Room —	  —	21 x55	12,705	24,774
4.	Organic Research Laboratory —		28x22	6,776	13,213
5.	Inorganic Research 	-		20x19	4,180	8,151
6.	Inorganic Preparation Room 		23x19	4,807	9,374
7.	Class Room Number One 			20x27	5,940	11,583
8.	Class Room Number Two 	-	20x27	5,940	11,583
9.	Storage Room 			28x9	2,772	5,405
	Physics			
10.	Seminar Room Number One 			20x27	5,940	11,583
11.	Seminar Room Number Two 		20x27	5,940	11,583
12.	Storage Room 		28x9	2,772	5,405
13.	Dark Room 	—-		8x12	1,056	2,059
14.	Physics Theory Laboratory 			15x68	11,220	21,879
15.	Small Electronics Laboratory 		15x70	11,550	22,523
16.	Large Electronics Laboratory 		29 x 100 35,090		68,426
17.	Advanced Physics Laboratory 		29x41	13,079	25,504
Third Floor
Chemistry
	Size	Cubic Ft.	Cost
1.	Freshman Laboratory Number One_ 31 x 60	20,460	£39,879
2.	Freshman Stores 	 8	x 14	1,232	2,402
3.	Preparation Room 	 10x31	3,410	6,650
4.	Freshman Laboratory Number Two.. 30 x 64	21,120	41,184
5.	Inorganic Research 	 22 x 30	7,260	14,157
6.	Research Room 	 19 x 10	2,090	4,076
Physics
7.	Faculty Lounge 			 22x24	5,808	11,326
8.	Dark Room 			 8x10	880	1,716
9.	Polymer Laboratory 			 15x40	6,600	12,870
10.	Polymer Laboratory 				102x29	32,538	63,450
11.	Polymer Laboratory 			 15x30	4,950	9,653