The University of Notre Dame
GRADUATE SCHOOL
Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of Eng-
lish; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of His-
tory; Department of Economics; Department of Political Science; Department of
Education; Department of Sociology.
Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry; Depart-
ment of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Mechanical
Engineering; Department of Civil Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering;
Department of Chemical Engineering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; De-
partment of Engineering Mechanics.
SCHOOL
College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of Philoso-
phy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Lan-
guages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Political
Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physical
Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; Depart-
ment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science.
College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry; Depart-
ment of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department of Me-
chanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of Chemical
Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; Department of
Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Department of Engi-
neering Mechanics.
College of Law.
College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Business
Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
•	9	•
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) • Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Notre Dame
Published quarterly by The University of Notre Dame Foundation at Notre
Dame, Indiana. Application for entry at second-class rate applied for.
James E. Armstrong, ’25, Editor • John N. Gackley, Jr., ’37, Managing Editor
JULY • 1948
NO. I
Keeping House for 4,800
By W. II. LYM AX
Back in the shadow of the Main Build-
ing is a picturesque little sector which you’d
think was lifted out of a French village and
set down in Notre Dame. Little courtways
duck in and out between the plain, old, yel-
low brick buildings of one and two stories,
and a dirt road still runs down the middle.
Hanging outside by the doorways are wood-
en signs that read: Tin Shop, Paint Shop,
Carpenter Shop, Electric Shop.
Rev. Bernard J. Furstoss, C.S.G., Director
of Maintenance, has his office next door to
the electric shop. He’s a big, plain-looking
man who likes to talk business. He’ll tell
you that Notre Dame saves $10,000 a month
by operating its own maintenance depart-
ment. Men hired by the university are more
interested in their jobs than outside workers.
They take pride in keeping up Notre Dame,
and hence are much more efficient. Besides,
with your own help, you can plan ahead
and buy large quantities of materials di-
rectly from the wholesaler, cutting cost con-
siderably.
Father Furstoss has fifty skilled union men
under him in the shops behind the Main
Building; they do the repairing needed about
the campus. He directs a maintenance crew
of 15 men who do nothing but move and
haul things. Twenty more men keep up the
grounds.
Directing these 85 men is such a task
that Father Furstoss has had the mainten-
ance of the buildings delegated to Charles
W. Taylor, Superintendent of Buildings. His
job is a full one. He must see to the up-
keep of 34 buildings scattered over a square
mile. He regards the 14 dormitories in this
group as small hotels requiring competent
maid and janitor service. However, he has
a problem maintaining this service without
a central headquarters and storage depot.
Mr. Taylor says the first objective of his
job is to save the university money by ex-
tending the life of each building on campus.
He constantly experiments with floor seal-
ing, wall plastering, screen coatings and
other preservatives.
Another of his objectives is cleanliness—
Maintenance Shop Area
in Old French Quarter.
which requires competent help and modern
machinery.
Mr. Taylor has been trying to get more
competent help by paying better wages. He
finds that the right kind of person in a job
will do twice the work for about one and
a half times the pay as someone who isn’t
conscientious. Well paid personnel, he finds,
is always .more efficient and dependable.
Modern machinery can cut in half the
cost of keeping Notre Dame clean. Mr.
Taylor cites his new wall-washing machines
as an example. A man can wash 1,500 sq. ft.
of wall in a day by hand and over 3,000 sq.
ft. by machine. In addition, you can wash
walls with little material cost and half the
labor it takes to paint. To look respectable,
walls must be done every two years; and
they can be washed six times before they
need a new painting. That saves the cost of
about four paint jobs in twelve years. Mr.
Taylor has his eye on a new machine that
scrubs and waxes floors in one movement.
But what of the present setup of the
maintenance department at Notre Dame?
The little French Quarter, where the
shops are now, is anything but modern. In
the days when students ate on the ground
floor of the Main Building, the kitchen,
butcher shop and baker shop were all back
in the little yellow brick buildings along with
the Ave Maria Press and the tin, paint,
plumbing and electric shops.
When the butcher shop was no longer
needed, the carpenter shop moved in. Mean-
time, they tore down the building that hous-
ed the kitchen, tin and paint shops; and
the latter two went next door when the
Ave Maria moved behind the Biology Build-
ing. Last year Father Furstoss got his long
awaited office when the bakery shop
“folded.”
But, with all these changes, the mainten-
ance department is still operating, compara-
tively, under the conditions of 25 years ago;
and Notre Dame is now more than twice
the size it was then. Rooms inside the shops
are small and quite inadequate. Pillars sup-
port the ceiling in the carpenter shop and
make it a trick to maneuver planks around
and about. Besides, Notre Dame can’t hire
another carpenter; there isn’t room in the
shop for another bench!
Then, when a carpenter does get his work
done on, say, a desk drawer, it must be
taken over to the paint shop for shellac
and then around to the tin shop for a
handle. It’s all quite inconvenient. But they
do a remarkable job with such facilities.
A new maintenance building is near the
top of the list in the Notre Dame post-war
building program. It should solve many
problems, like unifying the maintenance
shops and giving Mr. Taylor his central
headquarters and storage depot. It will be
a saving to the university, because better
maintenance means longer duration of every
building on campus.
Notre Dame won’t be the same ■without
its picturesque, old French Quarter—but
that seems to be the point!
Vol. 1
No. 1
3
“Young in Years...
Old in Hours”
l
i
By GREG HALPIN
It was just a touch football game on a
sunny fall afternoon. But it was being played
outside of the Chemistry Building with a
bruising seriousness. They take their foot-
ball to heart at Notre Dame — even the
touch kind.
A lanky kid in a loose sweat suit had just
broken loose on a long run and was flying
home for six points with a meaty convoy of
team mates. Suddenly, the stocky guy in the
blue shirt came blasting across the field,
bowled over the bodyguard and put an
emphatic tag on a very surprised runner.
Somebody on the sidelines let out a low
whistle. “Where did that guy come from?
Did Leahy know about him?”
Leahy undoubtedly did and he is not
alone. In fact, the pop-eyed side-liner was
some sort of a rarity in that he didn’t rec-
ognize the blue shirted touchdown wrecker
as a Notre Dame celebrity.
The “guy” was the 35-year-old head of
the University’s Chemistry Department, Dr.
Charles C. Price. Fifteen minutes before, he
had returned to his office from a Chicago
convention and, looking out to see the touch
game in battle below, had shed coat and tie
to become a part of it. It was a typical Price
gesture. He is a man who has never let his
maturity strangle a great youthful spirit.
And, because of this quality, he has attained
an outstanding position in his field.
It was but 12 short years ago, in 1936,
that Harvard bestowed a Doctorate upon
Charles Price and let him loose on the
world of Chemistry. Since then he has done
everything but turn it upside down.
He has made important laboratory dis-
coveries, directed vital research; he has
taught his way up the professorial hierarchy.
He has won top scientific awards, “chair-
manned” numerous scientific committees,
been editor and contributor for a score of
publications and written a number of texts.
He now heads one of the country’s leading
college Chemistry departments. He has truly
jammed into the dawning years of a man's
career a lifetime of achievement.
Dr. Price was born in 1913 at Passaic,
New Jersey. From local high school he went
on to Swarthmore College, where he first
was truly infected with that strange dis-
ease called “science.” Student Price came
down with a bad case of it, and he started
spending most of his hours in a laboratory.
But to keep Charles from becoming a dull
boy, there was always time for play. Swarth-
more, like most Eastern schools, had a la-
crosse team.
Now a lacrosse game—as we all know—is
hardly a social function. When played on
Francis Bacon's well-known quotation of “Young in years, old in
hours" certainly is applicable to the meteoric career of Dr. Price.
an intercollegiate level it is more than likely
to turn into an organized blood bath It
is a worthy test for the “survival of the
fittest” theory. Perhaps that is why in his
senior year, Charles Price was the captain of
the team and one of the most respected
players on the eastern seaboard. But la-
crosse, exciting as it is, is hardly a life’s
work; so, at graduation, Charles Price, A.B.
in Chemistry, moved north to Harvard for
advanced study. He spent two years at
Cambridge, sailing catboats on the Charles
River, playing a mean game of squash,
studying under Dr. Louis Freiser and tack-
ing an M.A. and a Ph.D. to his name. By
1936, he was ready for greater things.
The University of Illinois offered the
young scientist a research position. With his
4
Notre Dame
The Department of Chemistry
The Department of Chemistry, with limited building and laboratory facilities, offers courses
leading to the degrees of master of science and master of science in education in biological, inor-
ganic, organic, physical, and analytical chemistry. More advanced work toward the doctor’s de-
gree is possible in biological chemistry, organic chemistry, physical chemistry, and inorganic chem-
istry. In the chemical library is the necessary reference literature for effective research. Seventy-six
sets of chemical and chemical engineering journals are available (fifty-six of which are complete
and the others almost complete), along with sets of handbooks, and sufficient monographs and
other treatises for reference in research.
new bride, the former Mary Ellen White,
Dr. Price undertook a Western migration to
work under the famed Roger Adams. It
wasn’t long before he was climbing the fac-
ulty ladder. In 1937 he was appointed an
instructor, in 1939 an associate professor
and in 1942 an assistant professor. In be-
tween promotions, he found time to estab-
lish himself as Illinois squash champion.
Dr. Price came to Notre Dame in 1945
as a full professor of Chemistry and head
of the department. It was a bold move on
the part of the University. Thirty-five-year-
old department heads have never been in
fashion. Notre Dame flaunted tradition,
and has never been sorry. If, to those out-
side the school, the move needed any vindi-
cation, the American. Chemical Society pro-
vided it the following year when, in recog-
nition of “creative work in specialized
fields,” it presented its 1946 Award in Pure
Chemistry to Dr. Price. Francis Bacon’s
well-known quotation, “Young in years, old
in hours,” certainly is applicable to the me-
teoric career of Dr. Price.
At Notre Dame he has produced startling
results under restricted conditions. Both in
the laboratory, as a scientist, and in his of-
fice, as an administrator, he has won greater
and greater respect for an already famed
Chemistry Department, in which Father
Nieuwland discovered the components of
neoprene synthetic rubber over 40 years
ago. He has worked smoothly and effi-
ciently with a large and noted faculty, some
of whom were already computing formulae
when he was still being fed them. He has
won the admiration and respect of his stu-
dents. And he has done all this with the
handicap of inadequate equipment, inade-
quately housed.
Dr. Price isn’t prone to wistful thinking.
It isn’t in his nature. But the mention of the
new wing on the Chemistry Building which
he has been promised “reasonably soon” is
enough to invoke a rare look of longing. As
it is now, the Chemistry Department is turn-
ing away research products and assignments
in appalling numbers. They simply haven’t
had the room. For Dr. Price this could
easily lead to a severe case of scientific
claustrophobia. Meanwhile, he is perform-
ing daily miracles of ingenuity and deter-
mination in fulfilling all the orders of teach-
CHEMISTRY BUILDING
ing and government and industrial research
that are his responsibility to get done. That
they are being done is a great tribute to
himself and to his department.
Although Dr. Price has everything under
control in the Chemistry Department,
things were getting out of hand at his home
until a month ago. The balance of power
was all out of proportion. For, until
Charles Jr. arrived in April, Mrs. Price and
four daughters made up a feminine quorum
that was hard to beat. Now, says Dr. Price,
the male side of the family will be able at
least to present a “fighting minority.”
Dr. Price made the painful transition
from East to Midwest smoothly. His method
was simple — he just brought along his
sailboat. For sailboating is to Dr. Price a
sacred thing. It is a religion he has been
born into. It is his favorite way of for-
getting Chemistry. It ranks ahead of play-
ing or watching football, baseball and
lacrosse. It even ranks ahead of squash (at
which he is Notre Dame champ). His
hands are as familiar with the tiller of his
17-foot catboat as they are with a test tube;
and they are just as skillful. For, as with
everything else he likes to do, at boating
Dr. Price is an expert. Just ask his crew
of four daughters.
For that matter just ask any student, fac-
ulty member or associate at Notre Dame
about this spirited young scientist. They
might not give with a low whistle like the
guy on the sidelines, but what they’ll say
will mean the same thing. They’ll tell you
of a shy, boyish smile; of a fast, brilliant
mind at determined work; of long hours in
lab and office and the rich fruit of that
labor. They’ll tell you of a stocky touch
football player in a blue shirt who loves
to play and loves to win.
Vol, 1
No. 1
5
write
with
the
world
By
EDWARD A.
FISCHER
PROF. RICHARD SULLIVAN
Followers of fiction think of Richard Sul-
livan as a name that appears above short
stories, book reviews and on the jackets of
novels. Faculty and students at Notre Dame
think of him as a stocky, balding English
prof who bounds across campus beaming on
everyone and everything as though he has
just looked upon the world and found it
good.
He first bounded across campus in Sep-
tember, 1926, a freshman eager to be both
athlete and student. However, three disap-
pointing weeks of football training on Car-
tier field made him realize that a star quar-
terback at Kenosha high school might not
be a star quarterback at Notre Dame, espe-
cially if he weighed only 135 pounds; so
he applied all of his bounding energy toward
being a student.
He had a way with words even in his
college days. And, too, he had a way with
a camel’s hair brush. For a time it seemed
as though the brush might win out over the
typewriter. Sullivan splashed up quite a
few canvases at the Art Institute of Chi-
cago, while on summer vacation from Notre
Dame. In his senior year, however, he
won the Mitchell playwriting award; and
that caused the typewriter to move into
first place, a position it has held ever since.
Sullivan returned to the Art Institute
after getting his A.B. at Notre Dame in
1930, but this time he enrolled in a division
of the Institute known as the Goodman
School of Drama. There he studied play-
writing and stage designing for a year, with
a bit of acting on the side.
He married a girl from Kenosha, Wis.,
Mabel Constance Priddis, in May, 1932.
The ceremony took place in the log chapel
on the Notre Dame campus. True to the
Sullivan optimism, they honeymooned in
Europe during the depths of the depression.
After Paris, Munich, and Rome, they re-
turned to Kenosha with eight dollars to
spare.
For the next few years, Sullivan worked
in his father’s store in Kenosha. He used
6
Notre Dame
his spare time for writing radio scripts,
juvenile thrillers, Westerns, poems and some
high grade fiction.
His first sale was to The Midland, one
of the best of the little magazines. The
editor, John T. Frederick, reprinted that
first story, “The Robin,” in an anthology
called Thirty-four Present Day Stories.
The determined Sullivan optimism was
strained after completion of “The Women,”
the story he considers his best. He kept
faith in it through 33 heart-breaking rejec-
tion slips Finally it landed in a little maga-
zine called Accent. The fact that the story
has since been reprinted in four anthologies
indicates that there was a basis for the
optimism.
The young writer joined the Notre Dame
faculty in September, 1936. Since then he
has been teaching how-to-write courses in
the Department of English, and making a
home for his wife, two daughters, and an
English bulldog named Watson.
Shortly after returning to his Alma Mater,
Sullivan swung from pulps to slicks. His
name began to appear above stories in The
Atlantic, Scribner’s, American Mercury,
New Yorker, Mademoiselle, New Republic,
Columbia, Yale Review, Good Housekeep-
ing and Cosmopolitan. Soon his stories
were cropping up in such best-of-the-year
anthologies as the O’Brien, Foley, and O.
Henry collections.
He added book reviews to his writing
chores and became a regular contributor to
the New York Times Book Review Section
and the Chicago Tribune Magazine of
Books.
It wasn’t long bei'ore Sullivan was turn-
ing out books for other reviewers to review.
His first novel, Summer After Summer, was
published in 1942. Next came The Dark
Continent in 1943, followed by The World
of I della May in 1946.
Summer After Summer is a story of
American family life. A reviewer charac-
terized it well when he said, “It gives us
a memorable experience of the pathos and
the joy, the little agonies and the little
ecstasies, of common life.”
The Dark Continent is least significant,
least realistic, least universal of the Sulli-
van novels. It is a cleverly handled and
fast-reading story of a timid girl’s school
instructor who is about to marry a woman
he does not love. He loses his memory
through a bump on the head, and then
meets a very worthwhile girl who under-
stands him and rebuilds his life.
The World of Idella May, Sullivan’s lat-
est novel, 'stands head and shoulders above
all of his previous work. It is the story of
a completely selfish girl who is a slave to
her own romantic conception of herself.
The reviewer in the Chicago Sun said:
“This novel transcends both time and place.
Idella May is universal. There have been
Idella Mays in every age, in every society.
There is something of her in almost all
of us, men as well as women. Richard Sul-
livan has shown her with complete under-
standing. More than that, he has presented
Idella May and her world in clear and
living relation to permanent standards and
real values, and thus has given meaning to
her intrinsically meaningless career. It is
perhaps his greatest triumph that he has
done this without preaching or moralizing,
with obviousness or forced emphasis, with-
out impairment of the artistic integrity of
his novels.”
As a writer of fiction, Sullivan is an
artist. He is, however, just the opposite
of the popular conception of an artist. There
is nothing about him neurotic, emaciated,
or bowed-down by the burden of living.
A friend of his said that he is always sur-
prised at Sullivan’s work. The friend ex-
plained that he expects someone so full of
simplicity and sweetness and light to turn out
pious, saccharine, wishy-washy art. Instead,
Sullivan’s sophisticated attitude toward his
work insists on taste and integrity found
only in the highest art and in the most re-
ligious of artists.
“He is not doctrinaire,” the friend con-
tinued. “He pursues no thesis in his work,
does not force or stretch thin an unwilling
muse. He has said that ‘a good Catholic
novel is a good novel written by anyone
possessing a Catholic habit of mind,’ and he
is very clear about what all these words
mean and imply.”
Another friend explained Sullivan’s atti-
tude through a quotation from Paul Claudel,
who said that an unmistakable mark of the
Catholic consciousness is the attitude of rev-
erence as well as detachment toward “the
holiness of reality.”
Because Sullivan is impressed by “the
holiness of reality,” he can deal with sound
and significant realism and hold fast to his
optimism. He respects, loves and is inter-
ested in any being God has seen fit to create.
That is why, at one and the same time, he
can be a “realist”— and look upon the
world and find it good.
Paul G. Hoffman, ECA Administrator, Gives Commencement Address to Graduating Seniors
Stalin will not dare to plunge the world
into war “if the free nations stand together
and are prepared militarily to meet aggres-
sion,” Paul G. Hoffman, Administrator of
the Economic Cooperation Administration,
said in a commencement address at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, on June 6th.
More than 6,000 persons attending Notre
Dame’s 103rd commencement exercises
heard Mr. Hoffman emphasize the urgency
of the task before the ECA, and assert that
“as the Soviets seek to share their slavery
and starvation with the rest of the world
we seek to share our freedom and abund-
ance.” The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.,
president of Notre Dame, awarded honorary
degrees to Mr. Hoffman and four other per-
sons at the commencement, at which nearly
900 seniors, from every state in the Union
and several foreign countries, were grad-
uated.
Describing the Soviet dictatorship as
“probably the most powerful the world
has ever seen,” Mr. Hoffman stated bluntly
that the Soviets have “launched on a well-
thought-out program pf destroying all free
institutions.”
“Today there is a clear cut division be-
tween the barbaric dictatorship of Stalin,
aggressive, expanding, insatiable, and the
free western civilization developed through
twenty centuries of Christianity on the
broad foundation of classical Greece and
Rome. Woven into the fabric of western
civilization is the Christian ethic with its
moral and spiritual code. The Politbureau
has no moral or spiritual code; in fact, it
prides itself on its amorality. It respects
force and force alone, and will yield only
to force.
“The free peoples of Western Civilization
are at last discovering a firm, sound basis
for united action. We are joined now not
by mere expediency but by fundamental
morality. * * *
“Never before have so many nations felt
so inspired by their common heritage of
Western Christian culture. Never before
have these nations been so willing to act
on what they have in common and to dis-
regard the things that separate them.
“In this growing sense of solidarity
among all free peoples — in their aware-
ness of the type of conflict in which we are
now engaged — lies our greatest hope of
avoiding another world war. Hitler would
never have marched in 1939, in my opinion,
if he had had arrayed against him the
united strength of the world’s free nations.
Nor will Stalin march today if the free na-
tions stand together and are prepared mili-
tarily to meet aggression.”
Mr. Hoffman received the Honorary De-
gree of Doctor of Laws from Notre Dame,
as did the Most Rev. Richard J. Cushing,
Archbishop of Boston, and Dr. Roy J. De-
farrari, of Washington, D. C., Secretary-
General of the Catholic University of Amer-
ica. The Honorary Degree of Doctor of
Science was awarded to Vincent J. Schae-
fer of Schenectady, N. Y., internationally
distinguished research chemist. An Hon-
orary Doctorate of Laws also was awarded
posthumously to the late William J. Cor-
bett, former Chicago business leader and
former member of the Board of Lay Trus-
tees at Notre Dame, who died on May 26.
Actually, two commencement exercises
were held to accommodate all of the many
relatives and friends of the graduates. Mr.
Hoffman gave his address at each com-
mencement, the first at 1:30 p. m. for
graduates from the Notre Dame graduate
school and the colleges of arts and letters,
science and law, and the second at 3:30
p. m. for graduates of the colleges of engi-
neering and commerce at Notre Dame.
Archbishop Cushing preached the bacca-
laureate sermon at the Baccalaureate Mass
in historic Sacred Heart Church. He told
the graduates that “because the Church is
founded on faith in the Eternal God, the
Church has become the principle of perma-
nence in an unsecure world, a divinely estab-
lished rock firmly fixed among the shifting
sands of human history.”
Vol. I • No. I	7
“ ... I behold the surest pledges . . .
that the foundations of our national
policy will be laid in the pure and im-
mutable principles of private morality
. . . The propitious smile of Heaven can
never be expected on a nation that dis-
regards the eternal rules of order and
right which Heaven itself has or-
dained'’	—George Washington,
First Inaugural Address
T THINK we are aware today that there is
something wrong with our world and our
time.
We may not know exactly what it is; yet
this sense of wrong lurks in our minds, and
we feel somehow that it is not a super-
ficial thing which will straighten itself out,
nor is it something that legislation can
make right. We feel it to be a fundamental
thing which goes deep into the very nature
of a people and its government.
If an historian of some future age were
to write about our time, he would probably
write something like this;
“They were a strange people, these
Americans. Perhaps a brief glimpse at some
of their customs will give you an idea as
to their nature.
“They had one peculiar game which was
called ’Business is business.' Now, there
weren't really any rules to this game. Every-
one played it, and judging by any standards,
it was quite a barbarous and ruthless form
of play. There was no teamwork, although
sometimes men who were successful might
stop for a moment and help someone else
who was struggling along; but this occurred
only after they were successful. While one
was in there pitching with all one had, it
was every man for himself. After all, ‘Busi-
ness was business'!
“The scores were kept in bank books,
and, of course, those with the highest scores
were playing the best game. At the end
of every year they peered into their books
with the fervour of a mystic in ecstacy. If
the score was in black, things were going
quite smoothly. If it was red — well, even
then there was no cause to be disheartened.
One glance at a slogan tacked on the wall
would have an effect like a prayer an-
swered. Such ingenious maxims as ‘We’ll
do better in '48', or ‘Every day in every
way we keep getting better and better’, or
‘A firm handshake is a sure way to suc-
cess'— these maxims, I say, would give in-
spiration to the uninspired. Some histo-
rians are of the opinion that a few men
of that age burned candles before their
slogans and bowed humbly before them each
morning. That may or may not be; but
from the slogans many a man found the
courage to have another go at it.
“The Americans prided themselves on
their individuality. If you really wanted to
make a ‘bosom’ friend, the magic phrase
which opened the heart was, ‘You’re cer-
tainly different.’ But the paradoxical thing
was that they were all the same. No one
wanted to be too different, and if one was
the majority couldn’t understand him. They
worshipped the average — the mythical av-
erage in which all firmly believed. There
were intense searches to find the average
tbe
CR ISIS
By NORBERT JOSEPH GEIER
... A WASHINGTON DAY ADDRESS DELIVERED BEFORE MEMBERS OF THE
ADMINISTRATION, FACULTY, AND SENIOR CLASS BY NORBERT JOSEPH GEIER.
family, the average man, and the average
woman. Hollywood spent millions trying to
prove that the glamorous were, after all,
just like everyone else. And a lot of Amer-
icans felt that the state of their nation was
secure as long as the President played poker
and drank highballs the same as any other
‘red blooded American.’ One rather im-
portant political figure of the first half of
the twentieth century called that age ‘The
Century of the Common Man’. Although
he used it as a phrase of triumph, most of
us now regard it as an unwittingly accurate
statement of that arid century. By the year
two thousand five hundred the average was
reached — everyone looked and talked like
everyone else. Eventually talking was aban-
doned altogether. No one had anything
new to say. It was really an ideal state—
it eliminated thinking.
“The Americans did many paradoxical
things. They were always busy about some-
thing, without any time to waste. Yet they
wasted many hours, going back week after
week to movies which had infantile plots
with sex thrown in to amuse the elders.
Many were stirred emotionally, but they
were left intellectually and spiritually un-
moved. Hollywood and New York were
centers from which the sand was spread
over what was already a wasteland.
“The Americans spent millions on edu-
cation; they prided themselves on being
the most literate nation in the world. But
the colleges and universities became merely
reflections of a barren culture, fitting the
student to take his place as one of the
masses, where distinction was looked upon
with distrust. The educational factories,
year after year, turned out automatons to
whom a belief or a conviction or even an
idea was something to be avoided, lest the
gyrations of an idea rent the head asunder.
The avowed purpose of these institutions
was to prepare one for some elusive thing
called ‘life’, which was another way of say-
ing, ‘How to win friends and influence the
right people’. Instead of making man more
rational, and developing that part of his
nature which makes him distinctly man,
the educational foremen had everyone be-
lieving that the end of education was a
four hundred a month sinecure, and that
the end of mortal life was, in fact, THE
END.
“As for their form of government, they
were loud in proclaiming they had ‘the best
damned government in the world!’ Yet,
they had no real respect for authority, and
little sense of civic duty. Freedom meant
the freedom to do as one wished without
assuming any obligation or responsibility.
Plato might well have been speaking of
the twentieth century American when he
wrote in the laws:
“ ‘God . . . holding in His hand the be-
ginning, the middle, and the end of all that
is, travels according to His nature in a
straight line towards the accomplishment of
His end. Justice always accompanies Him,
and is the punisher of those who fall short
of the divine law. To justice, he who
would be happy holds fast, and follows in
her company with all humility and order;
but he who is luted up with pride, or elated
by wealth or rank, or beauty, who is young
and foolish, and has a soul hot with in-
solence, and thinks that he has no need of
any guide or ruler, but is able himself to
be a guide of others, he, I say, is left de-
serted of God; and being thus deserted, he
takes to him others who are like himself,
and dances about, throwing all things into
confusion; and many think that he is a
great man, but in a short time he pays a
penalty which justice cannot but approve,
and is utterly destroyed and his family and
his state with him.’
“Yes, the Americans were deserted of
God, but it was because they had deserted
Him. And in His place, they worshiped
the Gods of Progress, Technology, and the
Machine. True, they still went to Church,
but it was merely to bow to some old cus-
8
Notre Dame
George A Sullivan, of East Walpole, Mass., senior class president, presenting American flag to Rev. John H.
Murphy, C.S.C., vice-president of the University, in traditional Washington Day exercises—an annual event.
tom for which no one quite remembered the
reason; and most didn’t do that. Morality
was a changing thing, a matter of public
opinion. They no longer believed in any-
thing except that sometime, somehow,
Science would bring about the millenium
and Paradise would be on earth.
“Having lost their spiritual roots their
culture died before it was born. They en-
visioned themselves as the most civilized
nation, but their civilization was dry and
sterile. For any civilization based on a
culture which is not primarily religious is
a dying civilization. Their culture was
based on Man and the Machine, and not
on God and the Spirit. That is why one
day when the Machine stopped, as the Ma-
chine must, they perished as a Nation and a
People, because their god had perished, and
they could not remember the God who lived
and gave life.”
The historian of the future might write
an account like that. And though it is ex-
aggerated, and though the end which is
pictured is certainly not inevitable, it is not
inconceivable that it could happen — for we
have put our trust in Progress and the Ma-
chine. I do not think that any man with
a sensitive spirit can look at our culture,
at our nation and the world, and deny that
Western Civilization as we know has reached
a crisis, that the outcome depends on
whether or not the spirit — the religious
spirit — which makes a nation great and its
culture great is somehow revived. For
though we win war after war, we may even-
tually perish because that spirit is being
suffocated. As Christopher Dawson has
stated again and again, the nation which
has lost its spiritual roots is a dying nation.
George Washington, in his Farewell Ad-
dress, said what is essentially the same
thing:
“Of all the dispositions and habits which
lead to political prosperity, Religion and
morality are indispensable supports. In vain
would that man claim the tribute of Pa-
triotism, who would labor to subvert these
great Pillars of human happiness, these
firmest props of the duties of Men and
Citizens. The mere Politician, equally with
the pious man, ought to respect and to
cherish them. A volume could not trace
all their connections with private and public
felicity. Let it simply be asked where is
the security for property, for reputation,
for life, if the sense of religious obligation
desert the oaths, which are the instruments
of investigation in the Courts of Justice?
And let us with caution indulge in the sup-
position that morality can be maintained
without religion. Whatever may be con-
ceded to the influence of refined education
on the minds of peculiar structure — reason
and experience doth forbid us to expect that
national morality can prevail in exclusion
of religious principle.
“ ’Tis substantially true that virtue or
morality is the necessary spring of popular
government. The rule indeed extends with
more or less force to every species of Free
Government. Who that is a sincere friend
to it, can look with indifference upon at-
tempts to shake the foundation of that
fabric?”
The foundation has been shaken. And
we, as citizens and Christians, certainly can-
not stand by and watch the structure fall,
for as our nation derives her very being
from the people, though not necessarily her
right to be, it is from her people that the
salvation must come.
In a short time we will leave here as
graduates of a Catholic institution of learn-
ing. It is not necessary, and indeed impos-
sible, for us to go charging out, brandish-
ing our swords, ready, like St. George, to
do battle with the Dragon. Most of us
are doomed to mediocre positions. But
that does not mean that there is nothing
we can do; for none of us is doomed to
mediocrity of spirit — if we do not will it.
And therein lies the answer.
Peter Wust, one of the voices standing
in the midst of the wasteland and pointing
out the road to salvation in our time —
voices like those of Maritain and Dawson
and George Bernanos — has stated the an-
swer far better than I could. I quote from
a series of his essays called Crisis in the
West:
“ ... What are we to do? What are
we, each in his place, to do at a crisis which
must decide the fate of an entire epoch?
“In treating this serious question of con-
science we must no doubt recognize the
truth contained in the ‘catacomb’ policy.
Every important modification of the gen-
eral ethos must proceed from the profound-
est depths of personalities whose interior
life endures unperturbed however the tides
of contemporary opinion ebb and flow
around them. Modern morality has entire-
ly forgotten that the well-spring of all
ethical change must be sought in the in-
terior depths of the soul. . . . The problem
is already in a fair way to solution the mo-
ment we . . . seriously undertake our own
moral and religious purification . . .
Continued on Page 22
Vol. 1 • No. 1
The Notre Dame
Religious
Bulletin
By PETER BROWN
T7ROM his small two-and-a-half room
apartment in Dillon Hall, the Reverend
William Craddick, C.S.G., edits the smallest
Notre Dame publication in size, but the
largest in circulation—the Religious Bulletin.
Rev. William Craddick, C.S.C., edits copy for
the afternoon edition of the Religious Bulletin.
This publication, printed on ordinary letter-
size mimeograph paper, has a total daily
circulation of 10,000 copies. Of these, 6,000
are distributed on campus and the re-
mainder are mailed to subscribers.
The Bulletin was first published in the fall
~of 1331 by the Reverend John F. O’Hara,
G.S.G., who later became president of the
University and auxiliary bishop to the chap-
lain corps in World War II. In writing of
the Bulletin a few years later, Bishop O’Hara
said that it was started during the fall mis-
sion to call attention “in a whimsical fashion,
to certain irregularities that had come under
observation.” He continued that “other ir-
regularities occured the next day and
brought forth another Bulletin.31
After the mission was over, the Bulletin
ceased publication; but the students clamor-
ed for more. At first it came out only two
or three times a week; but, in a short time,
because of the demand, it was published
every day except Saturday and Sunday. The
publication days have remained the same
ever since. Until 1931, only 150 copies were
printed each day. Some were posted on
campus bulletin boards and the remainder
were made available to those desiring copies.
As with the initial publication, the demand
exceeded the supply; and, in 1931, door-to-
door distribution was instituted.
When Bishop O’Hara became president
of the University, his job was taken by the
Reverend John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., who
is now president. Father Cavanaugh, was
followed by the Reverend Frank Gartland,
G.S.G.; the Reverend John Lynch, C.S.G.;
and the present Prefect of Religion, Father
Craddick.
Father Craddick, who took over in 1942,
is justifiably proud of the world-wide circu-
lation of his publication. During the war he
received letters commenting on the Bulletin
from Sicily, New Caledonia, China, Hawaii,
England, some ships at sea and all points
north, east, west and south.
The Bulletin’s best war story, in the esti-
mation of Father Craddick, is about a grad-
uate who was injured very seriously while
serving in Europe. After his recovery he re-
turned to the States and met a classmate
whom he had not seen in six years. The
classmate expressed his sorrow at finding out
about the former’s injury. It seems that the
second man had read about the injury in
a copy of the Religious Bulletin he had pick-
ed up in China.
The Bulletin in its topics has always been
guided by the traditional religious program
at Notre Dame. It is used to remind stu-
dents of their religious duties and to stir
them from their lethargic habits. Father
Craddick claims that the mimeographed
pages take the place of a five-minute ser-
mon to which, if preached, the students
wouldn’t listen.
None of the editors has ever made any
pretense at giving the Bulletin grammatical
perfection. In controversial topics the lan-
guage is usually exaggerated to get the
writer’s point across. In 1944, Father Crad-
dick commented very strongly on an article
in a national magazine by a Presbyterian
minister in which the latter sanctioned cre-
mation and the abandonment of cemeteries.
The arguments by Father Craddick against
cremation and for cemeteries were picked up
by mortician trade magazines. At last count,
ten publications had carried a reprint of
that Bulletin.
All writing in the Bulletin is done by
Father Craddick; but, for the art work, he
depends upon students. His present assistant
is Pat Weishapl of Norfolk, Nebraska. Be-
tween his regular duties as Prefect of Reli-
gion (which include hearing confessions, giv-
ing Communion and visiting the sick) Fath-
er Craddick squeezes some time to write
the Bulletin copy. After he writes the copy,
he sends it to the University mimeograph
department, where the stencil is cut and
the copies run off. All this is done the morn-
ing the Bulletin is circulated. In all, there
are six men who deposit the copies under
all campus doors.
A younger brother of the Daily Bulletin,
the Weekly Bulletin, came into being during
the war. In it are reprints of the four best
Daily Bulletins in a given week. At present,
the mailing list for this edition includes
5,700 names. This list includes people from
all walks of life and from every continent in
the world. One of the earliest comments on.
the Weekly Bulletin was from the Catholic
chaplain at Attica State Prison, Attica, New
York, in which he said “I enjoy reading it
(the Bulletin}. On many occasions it sup-
plies me with valued sermon material and
the men in my “College” really go for No-
tre Dame wisdom.”
The smile on Father Craddick’s face is as
broad as the Bulletin’s circulation when he
reads that letter.
IO
Notre Dame
A Report on the
University of Notre Dame
Foundation
Notre Dame's founder described himself, 106 years ago, "as one surrounded on all sides by the
furious waves of a stormy sea, but who feels himself planted immovably upon the moveless rock."
ROCK...”
IMMOVABLY
UPON THE
MOVELESS
“Immovably Upon the Moveless Rock”
was the title of the Chairman’s first annual
report, last January, on the University of
Notre Dame Foundation.
“It was a more wishful title than an
over-confident one,” Chairman Harry G.
Hogan readily admitted.
How well the Foundation realized the
financial crisis confronting private higher
education! How well it realized that a
revolutionized national economy had de-
creased the expectancy of unusually large
single gifts! The biggest philanthropists
had come to be persons earning less than
$5,000 a year! They had given 72% of all
contributions reported on 1940-41 income
tax returns — as against only 51 % from
1930 to 1939.
And how fully the Foundation realized
that colleges and universities were getting a
smaller share of total philanthropy each
year — 11.18% in 1929-1930, but only
5.13% in 1941-1942!
At the same time, the Foundation also
realized that there were literally hundreds
of persons in the nation who would prob-
ably want to contribute to the maintenance
and expanded opportunities of Notre Dame
if they were just more aware — not of the
Notre Dame of the football world, but of
the whole Notre Dame, the real Notre
Dame.
How many thousands really knew, the
Foundation asked itself, the true passion of
Notre Dame’s conviction that education
should be of the whole man, not just of
part of a man — that “there can be no
‘good society’ of doctors and lawyers and
architects and chemists and businessmen
who are not,” in the words of Mr. Hogan’s
report, “deeply conscious of their obligations
to God and their subjection to His laws...
that the sole purpose of government is to
secure the rights of its sovereign subjects,
and that those rights are themselves God-
given in balance with God-given duties .. .
that Notre Dame knows and practices these
truths . . . and that Notre Dame can lay
true claim to true ‘greatness’ for no more
major reason.”
And how many really knew:
1.	That the components of neoprene syn-
thetic rubber were actually discovered
at Notre Dame, where Father Nieuw-
land had to sell home-made botanical
slides to finance his experiments?
2.	That modern aeronautical science was
founded at Notre Dame, scene of the
world’s first experimental wind tunnel?
3.	That Notre Dame’s experiments in anti-
malarial drugs promise relief to 300 mil-
lion victims a year?
4.	That Notre Dame’s studies of germ-free
life are rich in implications for biology
and cancer research?
5.	That Notre Dame is doing some of the
nation’s finest work in electronics and
fluid mechanics?
6.	That Notre Dame’s efforts are in great
measure responsible for keeping metal-
lurgy apace with supersonic aviation?
7.	That Notre Dame’s unprecedented
Mediaeval Institute is making a schol-
arly effort to recapture the whole of our
Christian tradition and to adapt its es-
sences to major problems of today?
Then the Foundation asked itself:
How many realize that Notre Dame’s
total net revenue from football is less than
the University spends, every year, in finan-
cial assistance to students?
“Not very many, comparatively — not
nearly enough!” That was the Founda-
tion’s easily corroborated answer to all
those questions.
And that’s when the Foundation set to
work — not to convince the general public
that it should contribute to Notre Dame,
but merely to see that people everywhere
were informed of the great educational
work the University was doing. The Foun-
dation was confident that a greater aware-
ness of those facts would itself lead many
persons, interested in bolstering the threat-
ened agents of Christian education, to assist
Notre Dame. And the Foundation has
been gratified to find that many such per-
sons have offered their assistance with the
stated belief that the University is offering
more help to our nation and our society
than it is asking.
Under Mr. Hogan’s Chairmanship, a
well-manned campus staff correlates the ac-
tivities of a nation-wide Foundation person-
nel of about 1,500 — not professional “fund-
raisers,” but vitally interested friends of
Notre Dame. A Chairman in each of more
Continued on Page 19
Vol. 1
No. 1
11
DKEUSaasjsaaB^
Find in a series of articles on the history of
the University of Notre Dame (adapted from
NOTRE DAME, ONE HUNDRED YEARS,
by Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C.)
Five tired young men and two tired boys
paused in the moonlight of a beautiful, early
October night in 1841—just northeast of
Defiance, Ohio —• to sing “all the hymns to
the Blessed Virgin they knew.”
For their gratitude knew no bounds.
The hardest eight weeks of a trying jour-
ney were now behind these six brothers of
the Congregation of Holy Cross, under the
leadership of Father Edward Sorin. They
had sailed from LeHavre, France, on August
8, in response to a plea, two years earlier,
by Bishop de la Hailandieie of Vincennes,
for an expedition of teaching brothers and
priests to the United States.
Those two years had been spent in scrap-
ing together 3,000 francs— 1,500 for the
ocean voyage, 1,500 for the trip from New
York to Vincennes. The group was neces-
sarily constituted with self-sufficiency in
mind, once they should reach Vincennes.
Brother Vincent was a teacher and weaver;
Brother Joachim, a tailor; Brother Francis
Xavier, a carpenter, and Brother Lawrence,
a farmer. The other two teachers, Brothers
Anselm and Gatian, were only 15 and 14.
Father Sorin himself was only 27.
Their troubles had begun on the first day
of the trip. No sooner had a passport dis-
pute been settled than the ticket agent had
demanded 3,500 francs for their passage. A
compromise found them removed from their
cabins, with their meagre belongings, to a
tiny portion of the steerage, 10 by 20 feet
— for 1,500 francs.
Paradoxically, it was Brother Vincent,
the “weaver,” who alone escaped seasick-
ness.
They enjoyed only a temporary respite in
New York, where they were welcomed, at
the Bishop’s request, by Samuel Byerly, son
of the partner of Josiah Wedgewood, of
Wedgewood China fame. Byerly had been
in the United States for nine years, but had
become a Catholic only a week before
Father Sorin’s group landed on September
14. He took them into his h»me for three
days, and arose at 3 o’clock every morning
to take care of his business correspondence,
12
Notre Dame -
tbe ounding
of Notre Dame
A FASCINATING STORY OF PASSPORT TROCHEE •
SEASICKNESS • EANGCAGE DIFFICCETY • POVERTY
• NEAR-RORRERY • AND THE STRENGTH OF FAITH
so that he could spend the rest of the time
with his guests. He even paid their steam-
boat fare for the Hudson River lap of their
Vincennes journey.
Father Sorin’s group reached Buffalo in
a little over seven days by horse-drawn
barge on the Erie Canal, and Toledo after
a three-day ordeal on Lake Erie — rougher
than anything they had experienced on the
Atlantic.
From Toledo on, they were in for a new
wave of difficulties.
Their plans to proceed from Toledo to
Vincennes by canal were upset by infor-
mation that the canal hadn’t yet been com-
pleted. They finally reached Napoleon by
boat, only to find that in that little Ohio
town, of all places, no one could speak
their native French!
An enterprising resident of Napoleon who
tried to sell the brothers on proceeding
from there by canoe for $10 upped the
price when they evidenced favorable inter-
est— and Father Sorin balked. They were
afforded some measure of satisfaction at
having turned thumbs down on the canoe
undertaking when, just beyond Napoleon,
they discovered that the “river” was dry
as a prairie.
But even that satisfaction was short-lived.
For the two horse-carts which they rented
for $30 for the trip to Defiance had to ne-
gotiate fallen trees and deep mud, and to
ford rivers. And not one of Father Sorin’s
group could swim! On top of that, the
drivers tried to rob them!
Small wonder then, that, on the out-
skirts of Defiance, they had thrown great
feeling into “all the hymns to the Blessed
Virgin they knew.”
They left by boat the next day for Fort
Wayne. Two days later, they were met in
Logansport by Father Martin, the Bishop’s
Vicar General, who accompanied them to
Lafayette.
It was a week later, on October 19, 1841,
that they beheld the Cathedral tower, as it
still stands today, in old Vincennes. The
Bishop welcomed them, Father Sorin said
Mass and the tired travelers received Com-
munion.
Father Sorin’s group lost little time in
establishing a school at St. Peter’s, 27 miles
from Vincennes. But (shades of their stop
at Napoleon!), of their first 12 novices,
eight were Irish, three were German and
the other was English.
All the superiors were French. How they
managed to understand each other is any-
one’s guess. Father Sorin himself felt no
little concern about the language barrier.
Having advertised a 12-subject curriculum
(e.g., “tuition and board, including wash-
ing and mending, payable in advance, per
quarter, $18 . . . French or German lan-
guage $2 ... or both included $3”), he
wrote to Father Moreau, back in France:
“We are not mentioning the fact that we
shall have to use the attic for a dormitory;
we don’t speak of the refectory; nothing has
been said of the fact that the teachers will
probably not understand their new pupils.
Tell me, are we not men of faith?”
Men of faith, indeed. Not only did St.
Peter’s flourish, but a second school was
opened, too, four miles away. But duties
became heavier, and money ran low — until
one of the priests, travelling throughout the
East and into Canada, succeeded in collect-
ing miscellaneous clothing and 15,000
francs. It was substantial precedent for the
efforts of today’s University of Notre Dame
Foundation to enhance the school’s financial
situation in an era of declining return from
investments and declining private fortunes.
They used part of the money, in fact, to
begin work on a new college.
And Father Sorin made no secret of his
sadness when the Bishop asked that the
project be stopped in favor of “more im-
portant things.” Father Sorin had set his
heart upon the founding of a new college.
“Well,” said Bishop de la Hailandiere,
“in the northern part of the state there is
a piece of land near South Bend. I could
let you have that. You could try a college
there, perhaps; but I caution you, you will
have a more difficult time there than here!”
The Bishop knew only too well the diffi-
culties of which he warned. A college had
been envisioned on that same land, but
given up only two years before. But it was
wonderful land, with a wonderful heritage.
It was land upon which the Indians had
been baptized, and where they had sung
the “Ave Maria" back in the 1600’s.
For the 50 years before Chief Pokagon
asked Father Gabriel Richard of Detroit, in
1830, to send his people a priest, the In-
dians had kept the faith, brought them by
the missionaries. Pokagon himself, and his
wife, said the Hail Mary, Our Father and
Creed many times a day. Father Richard
sent Pokagon’s people Father Stephen Theo-
dore Badin, the first priest ever ordained in
the United States.
Father Badin bought 524 acres, including
the two campus lakes, in 1832 — and trans-
ferred them to the Bishop in 1835. It was
Father Bach who had despaired of starting
a college here in 1840, but he did buy an-
other 375 acres, later assigned to the Bishop
of Vincennes. These were the 900 acres in
St. Joseph County which the Bishop offered
to Father Sorin.
On a bitter cold November 16, 1842,
Father Sorin and seven brothers (including
the former Brother Francis Xavier, now
Brother Marie, and Brother Gatian, of the
original group which had left France to-
gether 15 months before), left St. Peter’s
by ox-drawn cart. All four of the others
were Irish. So Notre Dame’s “Fighting
Irish” tradition is historically well founded.
Father Sorin and his seven brothers of
the Congregation of Holy Cross reached
v.'hat is now Notre Dame on November 26>
or 27, 1842.
“Everything was frozen,” Father Sorin
recorded. “Yet it all appeared so beautiful.
The lake particularly, with its mantle of
snow, resplendently white, was to us a, sym-
bol of the stainless purity of Our Lady.
. . . Like little children, in spite of the cold,
we ran from one end to the other, perfectly
enchanted by the beauty of our new home.”
Notre Dame had been founded.
Vol. 1
No. 1
13
Advisory Council on
SCIENCE
and
ENGINEERING
Some of the nation’s foremost industrialists
and scientists reviewed important scientific
and other research now being conducted at
the University of Notre Dame, at a recent
semi-annual meeting of the Notre Dame
Advisory Council on Science and Engineer-
ing.
The Council, established in 1946 to re-
view scientific and engineering research con-
ducted in Notre Dame’s laboratories and to
advise the University regarding this and pro-
posed new research, is headed by Edgar Ko-
bak, President of the Mutual Broadcasting
System, New York. Mr. Kobak, a former
Notre Dame student, recently succeeded Har-
old Vance, Chairman of the Board at the
Studebaker Corporation in South Bend, In-
diana, as Chairman of the Advisory Council.
Bradley Dewey, President of the Dewey and
Almy Chemical Company* in Cambridge,
Mass., and war-time deputy rubber adminis-
trator, is Vice-Chairman of the Council.
Important research in nuclear energy,
electronics, cancer, synthetic, rubber, penicil-
lin, insulin, germ-free life, the cause of tooth
decay, plastics, vaccines, toxins, vitamins,
proteins and in other fields of vast benefit to
mankind are being carried on at present in
the Notre Dame laboratories.
In an address before the Advisory Coun-
cil, the Rev. Philip S. Moore, G.S.G., Dean
of the Graduate School at the University,
pointed out that “quantitatively, there are
not enough men in our universities to train
properly the greatly increased number of
students,” since students now attending col-
lege have increased 80 percent while facul-
ties have increased only 20 percent. Father
Moore added that, as a result of this situa-
tion, with faculty members burdened more
than ever before with teaching, time for re-
search has been vastly reduced, thus de-
creasing the effectiveness of the university
as the center of basic research.
“Qualitatively, competition from govern-
ment and especially from industry is drawing
many of the best men away from the uni-
versities,” Father Moore continued. “This
Edgar Kobak, President of the Mutual Broadcasting System, is Chair-
man of the Notre Dame Advisory Council on Science and Engineering.
not only reduces the quantity and quality of
present basic research, but also it espe-
cially leaves the training of our future sci-
entists to less qualified men.” He told the
Council that in spite of this threat, however,
“Notre Dame has so strengthened its own
scientific staffs since the war that the Uni-
versity is giving more rigorous training to its
students and is conducting more basic re-
search than ever before.”
Other Council members are: Britton I.
Budd, President of the Public Service Go.,
of Northern Illinois, Chicago, Ill.* W. S.
Calcott, Assistant Chemical Director of the
E. I. Du Pont de Nemours & Co., Inc.,
Wilmington, Del.; Marvin E. Coyle, Execu-
tive Vice President, General Motors Corp.,
Detroit, Mich.; James G. Daley, President
of the Jefferson Electric Co., Bellwood, Ill.;
William Feeley, President of the Great Lakes
Dredge & Dock Co., Chicago, Ill.; William
H. Harrison, Vice President of the American
Telephone & Telegraph Co., New York, N.
Y.; Thomas W. Pangborn, President of the
Pangborn Corp., Hagerstown, Md.; Peter C.
Reilly, President of the Reilly Tar and
Chemical Corp., Indianapolis, Ind.; Arthur
J. Schmitt, President of A’>e American Phe-
nolic Corp, Cicero, Ill.; Oliver Smalley,
President, Meehanite Metal Corp., New Ro-
chelle, N. Y.; Earle C. Smith, Chief Metal-
lurgist, Republic Steel Corp., Cleveland, O.;
Leland Stanford, Vice President of the Sin-
clair Refining Co., New York, N. Y.; Harold
S. Vance, Chairman of the Board of The
Studebaker Corp., South Bend, Ind.; and
Dr. Albert F. Zahm, occupant of the Gug-
genheim Chair of Aviation, Washington,
D. C.
In addition to guidance of research ac-
tivity in Science and Engineering, the Coun-
cil has been responsible for certain re-
search grants, for special lecturers appearing
on campus, and for helping in publication
and distribution of the brochure American
Stake in Science and Engineering.
Several members have been generous in
gifts to the University.
14
Notre Dame
Advisory Council for
the COLLEGE
of
COMMERCE
Twenty-eight prominent business and in-
dustrial leaders of the United States have
accepted membership on a newly-created
Advisory Council for the Notre Dame Col-
lege of Commerce, it was announced re-
cently by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,
C.S.C., President of the University.
The Advisory Council, Father Cavanaugh
indicated, will “bring men of achievement
into closer association with the work of the
College of Commerce at Notre Dame and
will enable these men to share the responsi-
bility of training tomorow’s leaders.”
Among the purposes of the new Council,
according to Father Cavanaugh, will be to
advise on courses in the College of Com-
merce at Notre Dame, to enlarge the rela-
tionships between the College and industry,
and to offer suggestions for specific studies
on subjects beneficial to industry. The Coun-
cil also will assist in the establishment of a
plan in which at least one course in the
curriculum of the College of Commerce at
Notre Dame will be staffed by experts from
industry and will help select the lecturers
to give this course.
Other duties of the new Council will be
to help develop Notre Dame’s full poten-
tialities towards producing “courageous and
intelligent moral leadership” for business and
industry, Father Cavanaugh explained, and
to survey and suggest methods of improv-
ing the library and equipment in the College
of Commerce. The Council also will super-
vise the organization of conferences benefi-
cial to management and labor, and seminars
in the field of marketing, accounting, man-
eight-foot aluminum globe, depicting the map of the world,
revolves in a recessed pit of the College of Commerce lobby.
agement and finance. Likewise, the Council
will advise Notre Dame on research in eco-
nomics and in developing more efficient bus-
iness techniques, and in helping to place No-
tre Dame graduates to best advantage in
industry.
Members of the Advisory Council include:
Thomas E. Braniff, President of the Braniff
International Airways, Dallas, Tex.; O. J.
Caron, President of the Caron Spinning
Company, Rochelle, Ill.; John A. Coleman,
formerly Chairman of the Board of Govern-
ors of the New York Stock Exchange and a
partner in Adler, Coleman and Company,
brokerage firm in New York City; James E.
Coston, theatre properties executive, Chi-
cago, Ill.; William R. Daley, President of
the Otis and Company, Cleveland, O.; Noah
Dietrich, Executive Vice-President of the
Hughes Tool Company, Houston, Tex.;
Robert Dwyer, Vice-President of the Ana-
conda Copper Mining Company, New York
City; Kerwin H. Fulton, President of Out-
door Advertising, Inc., New York City., and
Robert H. O’Brien, Secretary of Paramount
Pictures, Inc., New York City.
Also: James Gerity, President of the Adri-
an-Michigan Corporation, die casting com-
pany, Adrian, Mich.; Robert H. Gore, pub-
lisher of the Ft. Lauderdale (Fla.) Daily
News and prominent hotel owner, realtor
and insurance executive; James M. Haggar,
President of the Haggar Company, clothing
manufacturer, Dallas, Tex.; RobertM. Ham-
ilton, President of the Dumore Company,
manufacturer of electric motors, Racine,
Wis.; Daniel P. Higgins, of the Eggers and
Higgins architectural firm, New York City;
Charles Hook, Chairman of the Board of
the American Rolling Mill Company, Mid-
dletown, O.; Neil C. Hurley, President of
the Independent Pneumatic Tool Company,
Chicago, Ill.; John T. Kirby, Vice-President
of the W. R. Grace Company, New York
City; and Peter C. Reilly, Jr., Vice-Presi-
dent, Reilly Tar and Chemical Corporation,
Indianapolis, Ind.
Also: Herbert A. Mendelson, real estate
investor, Los Angeles, Calif.; John F.
O’Shaughnessy, oil and gas executive, Wich-
ita, Kans.; Edward J. Quinn, partner in the
Murphy, Lanier and Quinn, accountant,
auditor and tax consultant firm, Chicago,
Ill.; Charles M. Reagan, Vice-President of
Paramount Pictures, Inc., New York City;
William H. Regnery, President of the Wes-
tern Shade Cloth Company, Chicago, Ill.;
Judson S. Sayre, President of Bendix Home
Appliances, Inc., South Bend, Ind.; George
W. Strake, independent oil operator, Hous-
ton, Tex.; William K. Warren, President of
the Warren Petroleum Corporation, Tulsa,
Okla.; Jack P. Whitaker, President of the
Whitaker Cable Corporation, North Kansas
City, Mo., and John J. Reynolds, real estate
executive, New York City.
Vol. 1
So. 1
15
Parades, speeches, rallies, posters, and (some) free “seegars” were featured.
16
Notre Dame
a
gram
Looking over a freehand drawing exhibit during the
Architecture School's Fiftieth Anniversary celebration.
$32,500 through sale
staged by students.
body. Notre Dame gave
of tickets and carnival
For the lucky winner of a European Students
Relief Fund project conducted by the studen


limited schedule of about two hours,	P'® engfneer controls.
en/ Pegler in a tr ■ ,
Student cast studies parts for Pirates
of Penzance . . . Giris in oper-
etta are from St. Mary’s College.
Vol. I
No. 1
17
Captain Bill Fischer, Chicago, III., leads the '48 squad "through" a
tough schedule, as Coach Leahy looks on, at opening of spring practice.
Spring
Sports
By
RAYMOND J. DONOVAN
FOOTBALL
Climaxing the 1948 Spring football drills
at Notre Dame, Coach Frank Leahy’s pros-
pective Irish varsity went down to a 20-14
defeat before a potent group of former
stars in the annual Varsity-Old Timers
game, May 15, in the Stadium.
Twenty thousand people saw quarterback
John Lujack lead his mates to victory in a
fast-moving game, which featured the pass-
receiving of Big John Yonaker, and stellar
performances by George Connor, Ziggy
Czarobski, George Strohmeyer, Bob Living-
ston, Cornie Clatt, and Johnny Agnone.
Frank Tripucka and Bob Williams, quar-
terbacks, were exceptionally outstanding for
the varsity. Leahy’s superdreadnought back-
field force of Emil Sitko, Coy McGee, Larry
Coutre, Ernie Zalejski, Mike Swistowicz and
Lank Smith will cause plenty of trouble
among opposing teams this autumn.
Captain Bill Fischer, Leon Hart and Jim
Martin formed the bulwark of the Irish line.
Terry Brennan, fullback John Panelli, and
Bill Walsh, center, were unable to take part
because of injuries.
Eight members of the Irish football squad
were honored with Frank E. Hering medals
for standout performances during the re-
cently-ended spring practice sessions.
The awards were as follows: Best block-
ing end, Leon Hart, Turtle Creek, Pa.; best
blocking tackle, Ralph McGehee, Chicago;
best blocking guard, Martin Wendell, Chi-
cago; best blocking center, Walter Grothaus,
Cincinnati; best quarterback, Frank Tri-
pucka, Bloomfield, N. J.; most aggressive
runner, Emil Sitko, Ft. Wayne, Ind.; most
elusive back, Coy McGee, Longview, Texas;
and most improved player, Larry Coutre,
Chicago.
The medals are named in honor of the
late Frank E. Hering, who was the third
football coach in Notre Dame history and
served from 1896 to 1899.
BASEBALL
A definite lack of long distance hitting
power is conspicuous on Coach Jake Kline’s
1948 Notre Dame baseball team which got
off on the wrong foot by winning only three
of its first nine games.
The current edition of the Irish diamond
aggregation is minus the slugging abilities
of such power hitters as catcher Tom Shee-
han, third baseman Bobby Klein and out-
fielder Jack Mayo, all of whom are playing
professional baseball, and Coach Kline as
yet has been unable to come up with a
matching hitting trio.
As a result of this hitting scarcity, Notre
Dame has thus far been unable to cop the
one-run decisions to any degree of regular-
ity and has lost five of their six defeats by
one-run margins.
The Irish opened their season with a
four-game trip to Cincinnati and came back
home with only one victory out of the quar-
tet. After dropping 4 to 3 and 2 to 1
decisions to Cincinnati University, and a
4 to 3 game to Xavier University, the
Klinemen salvaged a portion of the series
by beating Xavier, 5 to 2, in the finale of
the trip.
The Blue and Gold nine dropped another
one-runner, 2 to 1, to Bradley University
in Peoria, but in the first of a two game
series against the University of Iowa in Iowa
City the Irish snapped back to grab an
8 to 7 decision before submitting once again
to their one run nemesis by losing, 4 to 3,
to Iowa in the second contest.
Playing at home for the first time during
the season, Notre Dame rallied to nip Indi-
ana University, 5 to 3, in the first game of
a double-header, but bowed to a four-hit
pitching job in the second tilt to lose, 5
to 1.
Around the infield, Coach Kline is alter-
nating between Gene Lavery and Tom Mar-
tin at third, with Pete Koblosh at short,
Benny Kozlik at second and Ray Petrzelka
at first. In the outer garden, the Irish men-
tor has experimented with Gapt. Steve Pav-
ela, Don Grieve, Tom McHale, John Cree-
vey and George Rattay. Catching duties
have been handled by Tom Coccitti, Jim
Presley, Rattay and Dick Maher, while vet-
erans Walter Mahannah, Jack Campbell,
Dick Kluck, Bill Sherman, Greevey and
Dick Smullen have provided the pitching.
TENNIS
Seeking to repeat last year’s undefeated
record, Coach Walter Langford’s tennis
team jumped off to an auspicious start by
annexing their initial two matches against
Wisconsin and Michigan.
The Langford charges, with the Evert
brothers, Jimmy and Capt. Jerry, setting
the paces, romped over Wisconsin to the
tune of 9 to 0, with the Badgers able to
take only one game out of the meet. Mich-
igan provided much stiffer competition, and
at the end of the singles matches the two
teams were deadlocked at three matches
each, but the Irish came through with two
out of three doubles matches to win a 5 to
4 decision.
Although lacking the depth of last year’s
powerhouse, minus the support of Charles
Samson, the Notre Dame netters this year
give promise of developing into an aggrega-
tion just as powerful. The Evert brothers,
during the winter and spring months, an-
18
Notre Dame
nexed numerous doubles titles, including
the western indoor championship in which
Jimmy nipped brother Jerry in the finals
of the singles matches to cop the title.
The chief support behind the Everts
comes from a quartet of performers who
to-date have measured up to last year’s
performances. These include Bob David,
Joe Brown, Gene Biittner and Phil Lyons,
who have combined with the famed Evert
brothers to once again make Notre Dame
a powerhouse in the nation’s tennis picture.
GOLF
A convincing triumph and a moral vic-
tory featured the first two 1948 matches of
Notre Dame’s golf squad.
The Irish linksmen, coached by the Rev.
George Holderith, G. S. C., were question-
marks on the Spring sports scene before
their season opener with Kentucky. In this
match, however, Father Holderith’s golfers
came through with an 18 to 9 victory over
the Blue Grass boys which sent Notre Dame
golf hopes soaring.
Taking the links against a veteran-stud-
ded Purdue team on the Lafayette course,
the Irish were definite underdogs against a
Boilermaker squad which included five
members of the 1947 team that beat Notre
Dame on the Irish home course. Purdue’s
golfers, however, were forced to better two
course records before annexing a narrow
to 12/2 victory
Six veterans from last year’s Notre Dame
team comprise this year’s edition of the
Irish golfers. They include George Stuhr,
who is proving to be the most consistent
man on the squad, Jack Fitzpatrick, Gapt.
Dick Seidell, Tom Dore, Tom Conley and
Jack Quinn.
TRACK
After unimpressive performances in the
Kansas and Drake Relays and a smashing
victory in the first triangular meet of the
outdoor season, Notre Dame’s track and
field team sets its sights on two dual meets,
the Central Collegiate match and the Indi-
ana State meet during the remainder of the
campaign.
In the Kansas Relays, Coach Elvin R.
(Doc) Handy’s tracksters managed to win
only three third places—in the mile relay,
the four mile relay and the two mile relay.
At Drake, where they performed without
the services of ace hurdler John Smith who
was out with a leg injury, the Irish came
home with a third place in the Sprint Med-
ley Relay.
For the balance of the season, Coach
Handy is counting heavily on Bill Leonard
and Jim Kitell in the mile run, Jim Murphy
in the two-mile, Leonard and Pat Kenney
in the half mile, Ray Sabota in the 440-
yard run, Bob Smith in the dashes, and
John Smith, Bill Fleming and Bob McDavid
in the hurdles.
In the field events, chief performers for
Notre Dame include Jim Miller in the pole
vault, George Sullivan in the shot put,
Fleming in the high jump and broad jump,
Sullivan in the discus throw, and Floyd
Simmons in the javelin toss.
Professors Lecture in Europe
Two well-known professors of political
science at Notre Dame, Dr. Ferdinand A.
Hermens and Dr. Waldemar Gurian, will
leave the United States this month to teach
special courses at the German universities
of Bonn, Cologne, and Munster. Dr. Her-
mens, who is one of the leading opponents
of the proportional representation system
in national government will lecture on the
general problems of democracy and consti-
tutional reconstruction during May, June
and July, and will return to the campus for
the fall semester. Dr. Gurian, eminent
authority on Soviet Russia and editor of
the Notre Dame-published Review of
Politics, has also been invited to lecture
at the University of Munich and to take
part in the jubilee celebration at the Co-
logne cathedral, but he will return to Notre
Dame for the summer session.
Laymen's Retreat in August
The Laymen’s Retreat Movement, which
for years has attracted thousands of business
and professional men to the University of
Notre Dame for three day periods of special
spirl ual exercises, will hold its 1948 Retreat
at Notre Dame from August 19 to 22, it was
announced recently by Rev. Michael A.
Foran, C.S.C., Director of Retreats at Notre
Dame.
The practice of an annual week-end re-
treat was inaugurated at Notre Dame in
1918 and the spiritual conclaves have been
extremely popular among Catholic business-
men of the nation. During the three-day
retreat the participants withdraw from
worldly affairs and live the routine life of
a Notre Dame student with religious con-
ferences taking the place of classwork and
studies.
Conferences during the retreat are held
at the Grotto of Our Lady of Lourdes on
the Notre Dame campus. This is a replica
of the French shrine made famous by the
miraculous cures effected there. The climax
of the retreat is a candlelight procession on
the final night of the program in which all
of the participants, bearing lighted tapers,
march from Sacred Heart Church through
the university grounds to the Grotto for
celebration of solemn benediction.
The initial conference of the 1948 retreat
will be held at 8:30 p.m. (CDST) on
August 19. The retreat will be closed by
the annual Communion Breakfast to be held
Sunday morning, August 22.
Lynch Wins Award
John Lynch, of Detroit, a 1943 graduate
of the University of Notre Dame, has been
chosen as one of the six winners of $2000
fellowships in creative writing at Stanford
University, it was announced recently by
acting president Alvin C. Eurich. The
award was made for Lynch’s outstanding
work in short stories. His first published
story, “The Burden,” was printed last year
in Atlantic and has since been picked for
both the O. Henry Memorial Volume and
the Best Short Stories of 1947.
A Report on the Foundation
Continued from Page 71
than 200 cities heads a five-man Commit-
tee, under a Governor in each of the 48
states, the District of Columbia and several
foreign countries. The Annual Alumni
Fund, which began in 1941, has been made
a part of the Foundation program — and
both Alumni and non-Alumni have begun
to respond encouragingly to the new effort
to make the real Notre Dame, its opportuni-
ties and its needs better known.
Notre Dame’s Alumni — responding to a
Foundation plea to “cultivate our own gar-
den” before seeking gifts from non-Alumni
— topped all colleges and universities in the
nation in 1947 in percentage of contributors.
But the bulk of the job remains to be
done, by Alumni and other friends of the
University, to meet a truly desperate need
for new buildings, libraries, faculty, faculty-
retirement, endowed chairs, fellowships,
scholarships and student aid.
Contributions are payable to The Uni-
versity of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, Indi-
ana, and are deductible for Federal Income
Tax purposes.
University Library Expands
The rapid expansion of the Library at the
University of Notre Dame has resulted in
the creation of an Aquisition Department
headed by Assistant Librarian Louis A. Ken-
ney, former Assistant Librarian at the Uni-
versity of Illinois, it was announced recently
by the Rev. Howard Kenna, C.S.G., Di-
rector of Studies at Notre Dame.
Recent additions to the Notre Dame
library have totalled more than 1,000 vol-
umes per month, according to Librarian
Paul R. Byrne, and in addition to this ex-
pansion the library staff has been searching
out duplicate books to send to Louvain Uni-
versity in Belgium and to colleges and uni-
versities in the Philippines and India.
Student Writes Magazine Articles
A comparison of the presidential cam-
paign of 1848, when a disappointed Demo-
crat brought defeat to his party by heading
a third party, with the campaign of 1948
features an article on third parties in the
June issue of The Sign, national Catholic
monthly. The article was written by Dale
Francis, a graduate student in political
science. In the lead article of the June
issue of Information, a Paulist magazine,
Mr. Francis writes on the semantics of
apologetics. He is also an American corre-
spondent -for the London Catholic Herald.
Notre Dame Students Pay
Partial Tuition Cost
Notre Dame students, as in other col-
leges and universities, pay only a small part
of the cost of their education. The balance
is made up by gifts from alumni and non-
alumni, income from the limited endow-
ment, by income from auxiliary projects,
and by the unremunerated services of the
religious of the Congregation of Holy
Cross, who serve as teachers and adminis-
trators without salary.
Vol. 1
No. 1
19
Dark Room Touchdowns
By JOHN L. O’BRIEN
Football movies for coaching purposes
vere first used at Notre Dame in 1934.
Since then the importance of movies to the
Irish attack has increased steadily.
Each Saturday in the fall while cheering
rooters watch the green-shirted National
Champions in action, two photographers arc
busy in the press box. Alert and swift, they
catch each play on celluloid. Their work
is of tremendous importance to the team on
the following Saturdays. What may have
seemed to be accidental recovery or an inter-
ception will show up as something very dif-
ferent on Monday morning in the darkroom.
A faulty block or a careless tackle will glare
on the movie screen for all to see. Shifting,
intricate defenses of the opponent are brok-
en down to their simplest parts by revers-
ing the projector until each detail is un-
covered. If Notre Dame was fooled by that
defense, they shouldn’t make the same mis-
take again.
Tracing a movie from the camera to the
projector would go something like this:
After the game’s final whistle, the photogra-
pher sends the undeveloped film to the East-
man plant in Chicago by special messenger.
The film is processed Saturday night and is
ready for printing on Sunday morning. At
about 3 o’clock the finished print is sent
air-express to South Bend and delivered to
the movie room in Breen-Phillips Hall on
Monday morning.
The movie room is a small cabinet-lined
room in the basement of Breen-Phillips
adjoining the athletic offices. This movie de-
partment is in charge of End Coach John
Druze, assisted by John L. O’Brien, a senior
student in Journalism. As soon as the movie
arrives, it is O’Brien’s duty to splice the
film into a large reel preparatory to show-
ing for the coaching staff. Game films usual-
ly run about 1,500 feet and take about 45
minutes to show. While the film is being
shown each coach watches his own posi-
tion for mistakes or any usable data. For
instance: Coach Druze will observe Hart
or Martin carrying out their assignments,
Coach McArdle will note the plays where
his guards pull out, Coaches Crimmins and
Earley watch the backfield faking and the
ball handling while Coach Ziemba finds out
if the centers protect the passer properly and
go down with the receiver on defense. Head
Coach Leahy correlates all this into his lec-
tures and drills with the players the same
afternoon.
The football movies have been respon-
sible for' some notable tip-offs on opponents.
While watching the 1942 Navy pictures,
Coach Leahy noted a Navy lineman placing
his feet in a certain way before a particular
kind of pass Navy was using. In 1943 Notre
Dame defensive backs were told to watch for
a signal from the Notre Dame player op-
posite that midshipman. They did. That
play was totally unsuccessful all afternoon.
In the 1946 movie of the Purdue game, a
Boilermaker lineman was seen escaping prac-
tically every block thrown at him. After some
study Coaches Druze and Krause thought
up a block that he could not push away
from him. And that gentleman spent the aft-
ernoon on the grass in the 1947 Purdue game.
Movies are not only of value during the
football season but in the long winter and
spring months as well. It is then that the
coaches have time to study the films with
close attention to small details. When the
snow blankets Cartier Field and the sta-
dium, the afternoon movie room sessions
bring out many of the ideas and techniques
which characterize winning football.
At the close of each season, Coach Druze,
Frank Sullivan and John O’Brien collaborate
to make up a film called Highlights of No-
tre Dame. This is a film depicting all of the
exciting runs’ and touchdowns of the Fight-
ing Irish for that season. The Highlights
are prepared for the use of the Alumni Clubs
and the friendly organizations which have
supported and aided Notre Dame.
Head Football Coach Frank Leahy, Film Custodian John L. O'Brien and End
Coach John Druze watch a football movie in the Noire Dame projection room.
Central Soya Co. Grants Fellowship
Advanced study and research on the most
efficient utilization of farm products will be
pursued by recipients of a fellowship in
chemical engineering which has been estab-
lished at the University of Notre Dame by
the Central Soya Co. of Fort Wayne, Ind.
A bachelor’s degree in chemical engi-
neering is a prerequisite for the fellowship
and award is made on the basis of merit.
The recipient will receive $1,200 for the
calendar year, plus remission of tuition and
fees, in addition to any benefits for which
he may qualify uder the G. I. Bill of Rights.
The fellowship permits full time work lead-
ing to the master’s degree in one year.
The first recipient of the fellowship,
according to Professor Ronald E. Rich,
Head of the Department of Chemical Engi-
neering at Notre Dame, is August L. Legeay,
of Paducah, Ky. Mr. Legeay received the
Bachelor of Science degree in Chemical
Engineering at Notre Dame in 1943.
The Notre Dame College of Commerce
was established in 1920 as the result of a
development that had begun seven years
earlier when a course in commerce was
first offered at the University.
20
Notre Dame
the Graduate School
By BEV. PHILIP S. MOORE, C. S. C.
The Graduate School of Notre Dame con-
sists of four Divisions—Arts and Letters, Sci-
ence, Social Science and Engineering. With-
in these Divisions, twenty-one departments
are offering advanced programs of study and
research. Of these, eleven are offering the
Doctor’s degree: Biology, Chemistry, Educa-
tion, English, History, Mathematics, Metal-
lurgy, Philosophy, Physics, Political Science
and Sociology. The other ten are offering the
Master’s degree: Classical Languages, Eco-
nomics, Modern Languages, Religion, and
six departments in Engineering.
As an integral part of graduate educa-
tion at the University, two institutions dis-
tinct from the departmental organization
have been established: The Laboratories of
Bacteriology (Lobund), in which new and
promising germ-free and micrurgical tech-
niques have been developed for the investi-
gation of problems fundamental to the bio-
logical and medical sciences; and the Me-
diaeval Institute, in which the wisdom and
learning of the Middle Ages are being studied
as the rich well springs of western civiliza-
tion and culture.
Early in the colonial period of American
history, the need of higher education was
recognized; and, in 1636, Harvard College,
the first American college, was founded. For
more than 300 years, the college remained
our highest educational institution. But edu-
cators became increasingly conscious of the
need for more extended studies in science,
literature and the arts; and, out of this con-
sciousness and under the influence of the
German university, especially its faculty of
philosophy, graduate education came into
existence during the second half of the nine-
teenth century. For reasons of economy,
graduate work was, as a rule, developed in
connection with the college; and so the col-
lege, or undergraduate school, and the grad-
uate school, came to constitute the com-
plete American university. Today, therefore,
the graduate school is the apogee of Ameri-
can education and the apex of our highest
educational institution—the university.
At Notre Dame the first announcement
of graduate courses appeared in the official
Bulletin of the University for the school
year 1904-1905; and, in June, 1905, two
Master’s degrees were conferred. At that
time, however, and for several years follow-
ing, there was no definite organization of
graduate work. But with the inauguration
of the summer session at the University in
1918, the number of students who applied
for graduate study increased so rapidly that
in the Bulletin for 1921-1922 announcement
was made of a graduate faculty and acting
dean. Three years later, this administrative
organization was replaced by a Committee
on Graduate Study which functioned for 20
years. Then, in 1944, the development of
graduate work made another reorganization
desirable; and a Dean and Graduate Coun-
cil were appointed.
Historically, the graduate school was in-
troduced into American education to meet a
felt need for study beyond the college level.
The college was then the institution of ad-
vanced liberal education. It was no accident,
therefore, that the model for the American
graduate school was the German university
—and especially its faculty of philosophy,
which was essentially an institution of spe-
cialization through advanced study and re-
search because, in its inception, the grad-
uate school was conceived as an institution
for specialized training and research. The
need for specialized study and research has
greatly increased in all fields of learning
with the passing years; and hence, today as
always, the graduate school must produce
the specialist, thoroughly grounded in his
subject and trained to research. Further-
more, the University has become, and ap-
parently will remain for the indefinite fu-
ture, the principal home of untrammelled
research, essential to the expansion of the
frontiers of human knowledge, on which de-
pends in no small part the advancement of
human welfare.
Another responsibility of the graduate
school is the preparation of teachers for all
levels of our education. Although the trained
specialist has frequently proved a most com-
petent and inspiring teacher in larger col-
leges and universities, present needs indi-
cate that a more general training should
be provided for the many graduate stu-
dents who are looking forward to teaching
in our high schools and smaller colleges.
The graduate administration at Notre
Dame is deeply conscious of these functions
which they are obligated to discharge. This
consciousness will motivate further expan-
sion of graduate study in the University.
But the chief concern is with the continuous
qualitative development of the Graduate
School, in keeping with Notre Dame’s estab-
lished educational traditions.
Father O'Brien's Book Praised
by De Holmes
“Truths Men Live By,” a book on basic
morality by Father John A. O’Brien of the
University of Notre Dame, is hailed as “a
complete philosophy of religion and life” by
the distinguished Protestant clergyman, Dr.
John Haynes Holmes of New York, writing
in a recent issue of “The New York Times.”
Dr. Holmes praised Father O’Brien’s book
as one which “sweeps the whole gamut of
spiritual thought from the evidences of God,
the meaning origin and character of re-
ligion, the soul and its relationship to God,
to freedom of will, immortality, the Bible
and Jesus Christ as the Founder of Christi-
anity.”
“Written with ample learning, with open
mind, and in the light of the findings of
modern research in philosophy, history,
scripture and science,” Dr. Holmes added,
“the book presents the timeless arguments of
faith which belong to all the world’s re-
ligions. . . . This is Christian scholarship
at its best—a free, unfettered, deeply
reverent and moving presentation of religi-
ous truth.”
Published by the Macmillan Company,
the book has won wide acclaim among lead-
ers of all religious faiths and has been
chosen as a Book of the Month by the St.
Thomas More Book Club for nationwide
distribution. The volume, now in its third
printing, is used in colleges, universities and
Newman Club courses and has won a wide-
spread following among the general public
of all faiths. It was first published in 1946.
Society Adopts Schoenherr Formula
A new engineering formula for computing
the force necessary to propel a ship through
the water, devised by Dr. Karl E. Schoen-
herr, Dean of the College of Engineering
at the University of Notre Dame, has been
officially adopted by the Society of Naval
Architects and Marine Engineers.
According to Vice-Admiral Edward L.
Cochrane, USN (Ret), president of the
society, Dr. Schoenherr’s formula is of tre-
mendous importance to the shipbuilding
industry because it puts the calculations of
ship resistance and ship power on a common
basis in all model testing establishments in
the United States and Canada for the first
time in history. The new method, which
will be known as the Schoenherr Mean
Line, may be adapted by Great Britain and
Holland, as well, the admiral added.
Dr. Schoenherr, who has been Dean of
the College of Engineering at Notre Dame
since 1945, has an international reputation
as a hydromechanical engineer. He was
awarded the Distinguished Civilian Service
Medal by the United States Government for
his notable contributions to the war effort in
designing and testing ships. Before joining
the Notre Dame staff he was with the Navy
Department for many years.
Professor Kervick Honored
Francis W. Kervick, Head of the Depart-
ment of Architecture at the University of
Notre Dame, has been elected a fellow of
the Royal Society of Arts in London,
England
Dr. Kervick was elected to the Society,
which was founded in 1754 and is under
the patronage of the Bling of England, in
recognition of his outstanding work in archi-
tecture. Membership in the Society is
awarded to outstanding artists in sculpture,
architecture, painting, and allied fields.
Photographs of various works by Mr.
Kervick recently were shown at the inter-
national exhibit in London. Some of his
works now are in the permanent collection
of the Royal Institute of Architects in
London.
Mr. Kervick has been teaching archi-
tecture at Notre Dame since he was gradu-
ated from the University of Pennsylvania in
1909. During his service at Notre Dame, he
has received many awards for his archi-
tectural achievements.
Vol. 1
No, I
21
Our
Contributors
W. H. LYMAN—Majoring in Journalism,
Bill Lyman is a member of the Notre
Dame Scholastic staff. He lives in.
Chicago, Ill., and will graduate in ’49.
GREG HALPIN—Feature writer for the
Notre Dame Scholastic, and a veteran
of World War II. Greg is from
Brooklyn, N. Y.
EDWARD A. FISCHER—A.B. Notre
Dame, ’37. Now assistant professor of
Journalism. Former reporter, Chicago
Herald-Examiner and South Bend
News Times. Pioneered Journalism de-
partment, news bureau and alumni
publication, St. Joseph’s College, Rens-
selaer, Ind. In U. S. Army, World
War II, wrote four books for War De-
partment — including histories of
Burma campaigns.
NORBERT JOSEPH GEIER—Graduated
in June, ’48. Lives in Cashton, Wis-
consin.
PETER BROWN—Member of Notre Dame
Junior class. Son of Warren Brown,
sports columnist, Chicago Herald-
American.
RAYMOND J. DONOVAN—Notre Dame,
’42, where he has written publicity five
years and serves as Assistant Director
of Public Information. Former sports
editor, Logansport (Ind.) Pharos-
Tribune.
JOHN L. O’BRIEN—Notre Dame, ’49.
Manager of College All-Stars, August,
1947, in All-Star-Chicago Bears foot-
ball game.
REV. PHILIP S. MOORE, c.s.c.—Dean
of Notre Dame Graduate School, and
Professor of Philosophy. Member of
Notre Dame faculty since 1933. Stud-
ied at Notre Dame, Ecole des Chartes
(Paris), and received Ph.D. from
Catholic University of America.
. . . The Crisis
Continued from Page 9
“Why should not that which was possible
centuries ago be possible again today? The
intrinsic laws of history and of the human
soul are the same at all times and in all
places. We may indeed ask ourselves how
long it will be before that great process of
secularization is reversed whose final phase
we are now witnessing. But a question like
this is, after all, thoroughly un-Christian,
born of an impatient anxiety over the world.
Christian faith does not live by sight, but
by belief in the Invisible. And, therefore,
it always involves Christian patience, that
is to say, the long deep breath of Eternity.
But it is actually possible to answer the ques-
tion here and now. This process of regen-
eration will be accomplished in the very
hour when we Catholics unite in the serious
reform of ourselves. When we have one and
all effected this self-reformation, each in his
own place, at once, inevitably and simul-
taneously, a force of attraction, natural and
supernatural, will be generated so potent
that none of those standing without will be
able to resist it. No doubt the difficulties
involved by the opposition between Chris-
tianity and a de-Christianized culture will
not be disposed of at one blow. But they
will begin to disappear and a new age will
dawn.
“Yes, what are we to do? What am I to
do, and what are you to do? It is, of
course, impossible to answer the question
in detail. But a general answer is easy. It
will be this . . . Believe and do what you
will; love and do what you will; pray and
do what you will. And that in turn means
— get on in every respect with your own
work. Make yourself Christian: completely
Christian. Then look around you, and per-
form the work that has been given you to
do, according to your capacity. But wait in
patience. For it is only the sowing that is
your business. Leave, with childlike trust,
the gathering of the harvest to the genera-
tions whom God has called to that magnifi-
cent task.”
As Peter Wust states so fervently and cer-
tainly, the solution lies in the re-making of
ourselves. It is easy — and yet it is most
difficult. But the Christian can never for-
get that “His burden is indeed light and
His yoke is sweet.” And for the Christian
there is never despair, but always hope
and faith.
If at some time you should come to re-
alize and say, “I am a good citizen of my
nation because I am a good citizen of God’s
Kingdom,” the men — the empty men wast-
ing away in the wasteland will never, never
understand you. But God will understand
you, and the men full of God’s Grace will
understand you.
“. . . I behold the surest pledges that the
foundations of our national policy will be
laid in the pure and the immutable prin-
ciples of private morality. . . . (T)he pro-
pitious smiles of Heaven can never be ex-
pected on a nation that disregards the eter-
nal rules of order and right which Heaven
itself has ordained ...”
New Religious Curriculum For
Summer School
Advanced courses in the Catholic religion
will be inaugurated in the Graduate School
at the University of Notre Dame in the
1948 summer session which opens June 21,
it was announced recently by the Rev.
Howard Kenna, C.S.G., Director of Studies
at Notre Dame.
The graduate work in religion, to be
offered by the Department of Religion,
presently will be restricted to the summer
sessions at Notre Dame, but the Department
of Religion plans in the near future to ex-
tend the program into the regular scho-
lastic year. Graduate students following
the religion program may receive the Master
of Arts or Master of Science in Education
degrees.
Father Kenna, in making the announce-
ment, said that the aim of the graduate pro-
gram in religion is threefold: (1) to present
basic courses in the principles and methods
in the study of Christian Tradition, the
Sacred Scriptures and Theology; (2) to
apply these principles and methods to the
study of certain periods of Tradition, se-
lected books of Sacred Scripture, and vari-
ous subjects of Catholic Doctrine; and (3)
to give the student as broad a coverage as
possible of the content of Catholic Doctrine,
without jeopardizing the quality of scholar-
ship required for graduate work.
In addition to the general requirements,
the Department of Religion at Notre Dame
requires as prerequisites for graduate work
a reading knowledge of Latin for students
who intend to follow the course of studies
leading to a Master of Arts degree, and
sufficient knowledge of Christian Doctrine',
Philosophy and Christian Culture to make
adequate graduate work possible.
The Organization of the
College of Science
The College of Science was established as
a distinct unit of the University in 1865.
Prior to that year the various sciences had
been taught as part of the program in Arts
and Letters. In 1867 a carefully-planned
program in general science was formulated,
and subsequently, as the facilities improved,
more specialized programs were added, lead-
ing to the degree of bachelor of science in
botany, in zoology, in chemistry, in physics,
in mathematics, and in pharmacy. Each of
these programs represents a stage in the
development of the work of the College of
Science.
The collection of materials for a scientific
museum was begun about the middle of last
century and through the decades since then
has been gradually increased by numerous
gifts. In 1883 Science Hall was built, and
the departments of the College and the
science museum were transferred to the new
building. A separate building for the De-
partment of Chemistry was erected in 1918,
and Science Hall was considerably enlarged
in 1924. Special laboratories have been
provided for work in the main branches of
chemistry, physics, bacteriology, botany and
physiology.
22
Notre name
Moral. Responsible Leadership
America’s need for a leadership which possesses
responsibility based on a proper concept of moral
principles is a point on which all of us here at
Notre Dame are agreed.
We should be in equal agreement on the point
that Notre Dame’s efforts to secure the necessary
facilities to train Notre Dame’s students to meet
this need should receive the full cooperation essen-
tial to success.
When Father Sorin was young and might have
exercised his priestly vocation in the comparative
comforts of his native land, he chose instead the
rigors of wilderness and poverty to plant a dream.
And with the most prodigious effort and sacri-
fice, his dream was just achieving a satisfying sub-
stance when death took him in the Golden Jubilee
Year of Notre Dame.
Perhaps more important than the great faith of
Father Sorin in the future of Notre Dame was
the faith of the Brothers and early laymen who
shared his sacrifices without any hope of the honors
or the satisfaction that might conceivably reward
the founder and the head.
So for every Washington who prayed for the
success of his leadership, and for every Lincoln
who studied in a log cabin to lead in a capitol,
there must be men who pray and study for the
same understanding of the indissoluble nature of
leadership, responsibility, and moral principles.
These are the followers, these are the doers, upon
whom rests the success of the leader, and upon
whom frequently rests the succession. This poten-
tial leadership is as vital and as real as the actual,
insofar as institutions like Notre Dame who train
such leaders are concerned.
The University of Notre Dame Foundation is
not, therefore, as and end, engaged in the installa-
tion of fluorescent lighting in Carroll Hall, or the
creation of luxuries, or comforts even, for either
the faculty or the students of Notre Dame.
It is rather engaged in providing the channels
of training, of living, and of influences through
which young men will pass from the rich formative
stages of secondary education into the maturity of
minds and of talents necessary to the making of
a living, but with the equally vital maturity of
spiritual concepts which will make that living con-
form to standards of life. These standards must
be rooted in religion and reflect its essential en-
richment as the only true meaning of life.
This is the reason for Notre Dame’s existence.
It is the reason for every student in attendance.
Life is just as vital in other schools.
Liberty is a concept that finds more superficial
violence among its adherents in other schools.
And the pursuit of happiness is frequently less
inhibited on other campuses.
At Notre Dame, the administration and the
faculty, the parent and the student, have made the
additional implicit profession of faith that all of
these American traditions are significant and safe
only so long as they are identified as endowments
of a Creator.
Because over rhe years there has been the unity
of faith, and the strength of unity, Notre Dame
has become possessed of some very material assets.
Because much sacrifice has been poured into the
progress of the University, there is much progress
in evidence.
Because the sound training of responsible leaders
has been constant, Notre Dame men are rising
rapidly in many fields of leadership which are but
lately recognizing that leadership and responsibility
are integral.
And because the spirit of Notre Dame has been
derived from an older and greater, but very famil-
iar, spirit, Notre Dame has developed the tradition
of success.
Progress in the future, because the scale of oper-
ation has expanded, demands that the scale of
sacrifice be expanded. Fundamentally, there is no
change in this principle of the forward movement.
The need for the leadership which Notre Dame
has evidenced the capacity to produce makes the
obligation to produce that leadership one which
the University c’annot choose to refuse.
And the tradition of winning, unless it is to be
surrendered or denied, demands that the Univer-
sity accept confidently the challenge of sacrifice
and the burden of obligation.
It is to keep this faith with the past, with the
presentand with the future, that the Universiy
of Nore Dame Foundation has been organized.
Administration, faculty, students, alumni, friends
—this is the Notre Dame team, all-time, all-
American.
James E. Armstrong, ’25
Executive Vice-Chairman
The University of Notre Dame Foundation
Notre Dame, Indiana
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., Director	Mr. Harry G. Hogan, Chairman of the Board
President of the University	of Governors
Vol. 1 • No. I	23