
FALL • 1950
0
Sacred Heart Church
Arts Go Liberal
Otto Bird .........	3
n
President’s Page
Rev, John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of the University of
Notre Dame	6
The O’Shaughnessy Gift
of $1,500,000 .........	7
Arch Dreams Up the Dream Games
Collier’s ............................8
The Wranglers
Joseph M. Dukert . . . . . .10
John Frederick Nims,
Poet and Professor
Robert Brandt ....... 11
Proudlyoin the Heavens
Gleams the Gold and Blue
(Ninth in a Series) ...... 12
Let’s Talk Things Over
William J. Eisen ....... 14
Summer School a la Mexico
Joseph M. Dukert ...... 16
Going Up! o ......... 18
Steel Worker Donates 2,000 Books . . 21
Where There’s A Will ....... 23
VOL. 3 * NO. 4
The University of Notre Dame
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics: Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics".
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
Laboratories of Bacteriology (LOBUND) • Constitutes a research organiza-
tion of full-time scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Bio-
logical Engineering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of im-
portance to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
ARTS GO LIBERAL
By Otto Bird
jS^OTRE Dame has started something
new in education. It is a new way
of teaching and learning— a new pro-
gram of studies that leads to the A.B.
degree within the College of Arts and
Letters. Some fifty students with five
professors are now working on the first
year of this course, which is known as
the General Program of Liberal Educa-
tion.
Perhaps the quickest introduction to
this new venture can be obtained by
looking in upon the students while they
are actually at work. What strikes you
first when you enter a meeting of the
General Program is the arrangement of
students and teacher. It is obviously not
that of the usual class room. Instead
of rows of seats for the students and a
platform and desk at the head of the
room for the professor, you see a large
table with fifteen to twenty men sitting
around it. Instead of the students with
note-books and pencils and the professor
with his lecture-notes, all are seated
with copies of the same text open before
them. No formal separation cuts off the
teachei’ from his students. He is, as it
were, only an older and more experi-
enced student. Teachers and students
alike are engaged in studying and learn-
Dr. Otto Bird, nationally-prominent
leader in the Great Books movement,
has been named Director of the new
General Program of Liberal Education
inaugurated this semester at the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame.
Dr. Bird, since 1946, has been Assis-
tant Editor of the “Syntopicon,” the an-
alytical index of the “Great Books of the
Western World,” published by the '“En-
cyclopedia Britannica” and the Univer-
sity of Chicago. Editor of the “Syntopi-
con” is Dr. Mortimer Adler, of the Uni-
versity of Chicago.
Dr. Bird was educated at the Univer-
sity of Chicago, and received his doctor-
ate at the University of Toronto in 1939.
The new Notre Dame program direc-
tor formerly taught at St. Michael’s
College in Toronto and at St. John’s
University in Brooklyn, N. Y.
ing from the text they are reading to-
gether.
But what text do they read and how
do they read it? In other words, what
goes on at a meeting of the General
Program? It depends, of course, on what
session you happen to enter. At one
meeting you will find teacher and stu-
dents discussing the meaning of person-
al responsibility, the issue between fate
and freedom, and the tragic view of life
as it is raised by the Oedipus Rex of
Sophocles, one of the greatest tragedies
of all time. In another class a geometri-
cal proof in Euclid is being analysed
with the aim of gaining insight into the
postulational method, which is at the
basis of much modern science. Again, a
passage of Aristotle may be under dis-
cussion, in which the students are trying
to see how philosophy differs fi'om sci-
ence and other kinds of knowing. At
another session you find students and
teachers comparing a Latin sentence of
Cicero with various English transla-
tions, noting their likenesses and dif-
ferences in the efforts to find out what
makes a good sentence, and submitting
and analysing their own efforts at writ-
ing. At still another meeting you find
them discussing their reading of the
Bible, the notion of sin and repentance,
the intervention of God in history, and
the meaning of a sacred history.
However different the sessions you
visit, you will find certain things the
same in each. In all of them teachers
and students are engaged in discussing
the structure and ideas of a given text.
Seminar of the General Program with two professors and students in discussion.
wr- 5^-
This text is not the usual textbook in
which some professor has put down his
ideas of the subject matter. It is one of
the masterworks, a great book or classic
which has marked a decisive step in the
Western Christian tradition. Before this
work, teachers as well as students are
learners. The author of the book, Soph-
ocles or Euclid, Aristotle or one of the
inspired writers of the Bible, as the case
may be, is the real teacher.
It will also be noted that in a class of
the General Program the professoi' in-
stead of telling his students what is in
the book, is constantly questioning them
about the book and trying to get them
in a discussion about its ideas. Nothing
seems to please him more than when the
students are aroused and excited about
some point and arguing with each other
in the pursuit of an idea. The emphasis
in this method of learning is constantly
placed upon the activity of the student.
The classes are small so that it is al-
ways possible for all the students to take
an active part. They are constantly be-
ing prodded to think about what they
have read, to follow the development of
an idea, to discuss it intelligibly, and to
hold their own in the give-and-take ar-
gument.
Such is the picture of the General
Program that you get from attending
some of its classes. What is the idea be-
hind it, you may ask. What is its ideal
of education? What are the means used
to achieve it? How is it new?
Any educational program starts from
some idea of what man is and how he
learns. Some educators seem to con-
ceive of man as primarily a machine or
a biological organism. Accordingly, they
considei" education as a way either of
tinkering with the machine until it runs
smoothly or of conditioning the animal
until it is adapted to its environment.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, at Notre Dame,
Indiana. Entered as second class
matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office
of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the
Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing
Editor.
Contributors' views do not necessar-
ily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in
this magazine should be addressed
to the Editor.
Vol. 3 No. 4 Fall, 1950
Staff members include (I to r): Father Thomas Joseph Brennan, C.S.C., Dr. Richard
Thompson, Dr. Otto Bird, Mr. Edward Cronin and Father Thomas James Brennan, C.S.C.
Both are far removed from the view
which sees man as that complex and
even paradoxical creature the ancients
defined as a rational animal. As a ra-
tional agent, man is a talking, thinking,
observing, measuring and worshipping
animal. To educate him is to train him
in the use of these various faculties so
that they can perform their work easily
and well. Education in this sense is a
preparation or an initiation rather than
some kind of tinkering or conditioning.
It is initiation into manhood.
But man is not only a creature en-
dowed with certain faculties. He is also
a creature with a heritage. He is “heir
of all the ages” as Chesterton said, and,
if he is cut off from the past, he is “most
unjustly disinherited.” In other words,
man is born into a tradition, in our case
the tradition of Western Christendom,
and, if he is to become fully himself, he
must be initiated into this tradition. It
provides the context for the work of his
various faculties.
Education thus has two great aims:
to prepare man to use his intellectual
faculties and to initiate him into his tra-
dition. How can this two-fold aim be
achieved? The means adopted depends
almost entirely on the view that is taken
of the way man learns. There is an old
saying that the only real education is
self-education. This high-lights a funda-
mental truth about all education: the
primary agent in the learning process is
the student not the teacher. The teach-
er, of course, is necessary, and the better
the teacher, the better the learning. But
it is the student who must actually en-
gage all his learning faculties and, in
using them, develop and train them so
that they can function easily and well.
Learning is essentially an active process.
It might be said to be the development
of man’s intellectual teeth. The teacher
sees to it that he chews on the things
best adapted to sharpening his intellec-
tual teeth and that he chews in the right
way.
With this quick view of the education-
al theory behind the General Program,
we can now try to say what it is. To at-
tempt it in one sentence, we might say
that the General Program endeavors to
train the whole man by developing his
basic abilities through exposure to and
controlled exercise upon the great texts
that constitute and record the whole
Christian tradition.
What distinguishes such a program
from others is the emphasis that it
places upon the great texts. These books
do, indeed, constitute the core of the
Program. The Basic Reading-List for
the four-year course consists of almost
two hundred titles, beginning with the
Bible and Homer and coming down to
Pope Pius XII and Toynbee, and includ-
ing the outstanding masterworks in all
major subject matters—theology, philos-
ophy, science, mathematics, social stud-
ies and literature. Unlike other lists of
the “great books,” Notre Dame’s is note-
worthy for the large representation it
gives to the Christian classics.
What a “great book” is can be seen
from a consideration of why and how it
is used in the General Program. Given
our educational aims, the ideal means
will be one that introduces the student
to his intellectual heritage at the same
4
Notre Dame
14MJMSH
time that it develops his intellectual
powers. These two requirements are
best fulfilled by a “great book,” and they
in turn are perhaps the briefest way of
describing a “great book.” It is a book
that marks a crucial place in the devel-
opment or record of our tradition; it is
“great” because of the influence it exer-
cises. At the same time it is also a work
of liberal art. Containing the “best that
has been thought and said,” it stands as
a permanent achievement of what man
has been able to accomplish by his fac-
ulties of talking, thinking, observing,
measuring, and worshipping.
The General Program uses these books
to develop in the students the same lib-
eral arts that were necessary in the
writing of them. They are read in two
different ways for two different pur-
poses. In what is called the Seminar,
works are read as a whole, and the stu-
dents then meet with their teachers to
discuss their leading ideas and the ar-
gument by which they are linked togeth-
er. The whole tradition from the ancient
Greeks to the present is covered twice
during the four-year period. Since the
classical works in all basic subject-
matters are read, the Seminar affords
an opportunity to initiate the students
into their cultural heritage, the prob-
lems and values that men have struggled
with and the issues that the students
themselves will constantly meet as Chris-
tians and Americans.
In addition to the Seminar, the Gen-
eral Program has what it calls Tutori-
als. There are four of these, one each
in Language, Mathematics and Science,
Philosophy, and Theology. In each of
these, the aim is to train the student in
the way the liberal arts are applied to
develop different kinds of knowledge as
exemplified in these four basic subject
matters. For this purpose those texts
are studied which have most successfully
and truthfully developed theii' subject
matters. Thus for example, in philoso-
phy as well as in theology the work of
St. Thomas Aquinas furnishes the basic
text. The Science Tutorial, in addition
to studying the classical texts in the de-
velopment of the physical and biological
sciences, will employ laboratory exer-
cises to develop the student’s ability in
observing and measuring through fol-
lowing the classical experiments in sci-
entific method.
In both Seminar and Tutorial empha-
sis is constantly upon the activity of the
student. Employment of the master-
pieces of the Western Christian tradi-
tion will assure that his faculties are
being exercised and developed upon mat-
ters of true significance. Use of the dis-
cussion method by teachers in small
classes aims at linking together as much
as possible the various kinds of learning
which are going on in the different parts
of the Program. As an auxiliary meth-
od, lectures are used to provide integra-
tion and background material for the
whole program.
There is not space here to go into fur-
ther details about the General Program.
It can rightfully be asked, however,
what the student will be able to do after
he has completed it. One of the best an-
swers to this question is provided by
Cardinal Newman in his Idea of a Uni-
versity, where he declares:
“When the intellect has once been
properly trained and formed to have a
connected view or grasp of things, it will
display its powers with more or less
effect according to its particular quality
and capacity in the individual. In the
case of most men it makes itself felt in
the good sense, sobriety of thought, rea-
sonableness, candour, self-command and
steadiness of view which characterizes
it. In some it will have developed habits
of business power of influencing others,
and sagacity. In others it will elicit the
talent of philosophical speculation, and
lead the mind forward to eminence in
this or that intellectual department. In
all it will be a faculty of entering with
comparative ease into any subject of
thought, and of taking up with aptitude
any science or profession.”
The graduate of the General Program
will be prepared to enter the world of
business or to pursue his studies in the
graduate 01* professional schools. Yet
since the aim of the Program is to train
the whole man, the citizen, the Christian,
it is more than a preparation for a job.
It is a preparation for life.
A tutorial group in language; these students are studying Latin in the Mass.
9
Papal Blessing
This Summer, with other delegates of
the Congregation of Holy Cross, I at-
tended our General Chapter in Rome.
The highlight of our stay in the Eternal
City was a special audience with our
Holy Father, Pope Pius XII.
I begged His Holiness, recalling his
visit to Notre Dame as Papal Secretary
of State, to bless the University in a
special manner, the religious, faculty
and student body, their families, the
alumni, the University’s benefactors and
friends. I shall always remember the ex-
treme kindness with which His Holiness
placing his hand upon my arm, said:
“Father, I send them not only my bless-
ing, but my heart’s love as well.”
It makes me very happy to convey to
you all this word of benediction and af-
fection. It is more precious by far than
anything else I might have brought back
to you, and I know that the members of
the vast Family of Notre Dame will
treasure this favor of our Holy Father,
and show gratitude in their most fervent
prayers.
Building Program
The New Science Building, the gift of
thousands of alumni and other friends
of the University and of the citizens of
South Bend and Mishawaka, was form-
ally begun on October 6 at which time
the Advisory Council for Science and
Engineering was present for the formal
breaking of the ground. This building
should be ready for use by the Summer
of 1952. While construction costs will
run approximately $500,000 more than
originally estimated, we feel this build-
ing should no longer be delayed.
Working drawings for the Inn, the
gift of Mr. E. M. Morris of South Bend
have been promised for this month. Plans
for the Fred J. and Sally Fisher Memo-
rial Residence Hall and for the I. A.
O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts
Building are progressing satisfactorily,
and, if conditions are favorable, work
may be started on these buildings before
many months go by.
Trust in Alumni and Other Friends
Other urgent needs of the University
—necessary expansion and improvement
of the utilities and services (heat, sewer,
water, maintenance building) will cost
approximately $3,000,000. We plan to
meet these needs because of our confi-
dence in the alumni and other friends of
Notre Dame. The numbers have been
growing and the amount of their an-
nual contributions has been increasing,
a reflection of pride in Notre Dame’s
past and present achievements and a
manifestation of their hopes for Notre
Dame’s future.
Television Story
For years we have felt that millions
of friends of Notre - Dame throughout
the country would welcome an oppor-
tunity to associate themselves with our
work if the invitation could be extended
to them. The problem of extending the
invitation has been baffling.
But this Fall we shall be able to tell
the Notre Dame Story to more people
than ever before, and more effectively
than ever before. Our home football
games and the Navy game in Cleveland
will be televised over forty-three stations
of the DuMont Television Network in as
many different cities; it is estimated
that approximately 20,000,000 shall see
and hear these games. The half-hour
immediately preceding each game will
be given over to a presentation, on film
and through personal interview, of the
history, student life, academic achieve-
ments, and scientific research at Notre
Dame.
As a follow-up to this presentation,
we shall distribute several hundreds of
thousands of leaflets, prepared through
the kind and generous cooperation of
Mr. Bernard C. Duffy, President of one
of the country’s leading advertising
agencies and a member of the Presi-
dent’s Committee in New York City, de-
scribing how it is possible to become a
Friend of Notre Dame.
I would appreciate it very much if all
the readers of Notre Dame would sup-
port our efforts to present the Story of
Notre Dame, and help us widen the
circle of Notre Dame Friends. You will
be informed how your cooperation can
be most effective. This is an opportunity
that has never before been given to any
college or university in the country. And
it is an opportunity that may never be
afforded us again. We do not wish to
miss it.
New Academic Year
The new academic year began with a
Solemn Mass in Sacred Heart Church
on Sunday, September 17. Because of
late registrants, it is still too early to
give official enrollment figures, but all
indications point to the largest student
body in Notre Dame’s history.
As we begin the new year, and espe-
cially as we enter the month of October,
I invite you and your families to join
with us in the daily recitation of the
Rosary to Our Lady, the Queen of Peace
and Mother of the University, for peace
and good will among men and for con-
tinued blessings upon Notre Dame.
President of the University
Director of the Foundation
6
Notre Dame
The O'Shaughnessy Gift of
$1,500,000
New Liberal and Fine Arts Building Donated by
President of Globe Oil and Refining Company
A new Liberal and Fine Arts building
will be erected on the Notre Dame
campus through the generous donation
of $1,500,000, from Mr. I. A. O’Shaugh-
nessy, president of the Globe Oil and Re-
fining Company, in St. Paul, Minnesota.
Mr. O’Shaughnessy is an outstanding
Catholic layman and was elected presi-
dent of the Notre Dame Associate Board
of Lay Trustees last year.
Born in Stillwater, Minnesota, Mr.
O'Shaughnessy has been active in the oil
business for many years. He received a
Bachelor of Arts degree from St. Thom-
as College in 1907, and three years ago
was awarded an honorary Doctor of
Laws degree from the University of No-
tre Dame. Before entering college he
attended St. Thomas Military Academy.
As a young man, only ten years after
he had received his college degree, Mr.
O’Shaughnessy organized the Globe Oil
Company. Through his efforts as presi-
dent of the company since that time, it
has grown until today it is one of the
leading oil concerns in the United States.
Besides heading the Globe Oil and Re-
fining Company, Mr. O’Shaughnessy is
also president of the Globe Pipeline Com-
pany and the Lario Oil and Gas Com-
pany. During World War II he served as
a member of the Petroleum Industry
War Council. He is a member of the
Lay Committee on Catholic Service of
the Boy Scouts of America.
Mr. O’Shaughnessy has had a long-
standing recognition from many sources,
both civic and religious, and he is espe-
cially well-known for his work in Catho-
lic circles. He is a Knight of the Holy
Sepulchre, a Knight of Malta, and also
a Papal Chamberlain of Sword and Cape.
During the Eucharistic Congress held at
St. Paul in 1940, he acted as Chamber-
lain to Dennis Cardinal Dougherty, Pa-
pal Delegate.
In 1942 Mr. O’Shaughnessy established
the O’Shaughnessy Fine Arts Founda-
tion at Notre Dame.
The Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, c.s.c.,
president of Notre Dame, in announcing
the gift, said that “Notre Dame is deep-
ly grateful for the very generous gift
of Mr. O’Shaughnessy, who has donated
so unselfishly of his time and effort on
behalf of this University as a distin-
guished member of its Associate Board
of Lay Trustees.
“Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s gift will enable
Notre Dame to broaden greatly the scope
of the training of students in the Col-
lege of Arts and Letters. Tins college
has been the cornerstone of the Univer-
sity’s educational system in its 108-year
history.”
It is planned that the Liberal and
Fine Arts building will house the 16 de-
partments in the College of Arts and
Letters. Also, it is expected that the
Mr. O'Shaughnessy and Father Cavanaugh.
Wightman Memorial Art Gallery, now
in the University Library, may be moved
to the new building. The preliminary
plans provide space for the University’s
permanent gallery, which includes the
pictures owned by Notre Dame as well
as the revolving gallery. The latter
would lend itself to a successive exhibi-
tion of other famous paintings in the
University’s possession.
According to tentative plans, the build-
ing will include the offices of the dean of
the college, his assistant, in addition to
space for departmental heads and other
members of the faculty of the college.
Preliminary plans call for the inclusion
of such departments as theology, philos-
ophy, economics, sociology, history, poli-
(Continued on Page 20)
Vol. 3
No. 4
7
Arch Dreams Up the
Z^NE of the truly amazing1 phenomena
of American sports is that one of
football’s greatest crowds is drawn each
year to a game which is played weeks
before the regular season opens and
which is meaningless so far as it aifects
the national picture, either collegiate or
professional.
Like its predecessors, the seventeenth
annual game between the College All-
Stars and the champions of the National
Football League—in this instance, the
Philadelphia Eagles—will prove exactly
nothing.
If you are one of those fortunate
enough to possess a ticket for the game
—and it’s an assured sellout, even with
the vast cavernous capacity of Soldier
Field — chances are you’ll look down
from the colonnaded heights to the tiny
emerald patch which is the gridiron and
try to pick out Southern Methodist’s
Doak Walker or Notre Dame’s Leon
Hart. Maybe you’ll look for Steve Van
Buren of the Eagles, or theii' coach,
Greasy Nelson. There is only a slim pos-
sibility that you will pay any attention
to a calm, squat figure in mufti who will
be in the neighborhood of the All-Star
bench. Or, if you do see him, you’ll prob-
ably dismiss him as one of the minor
functionaries. If so, console yourself, for
you won’t have been the first to be de-
ceived by the mild manner of Arch
Ward the man who runs the show.
Ward is in his early fifties, of medium
height and average appearance. Chunk-
ily built, carefully clothed, with once
blond hair which is turning gray, Arch
looks out intelligently and quietly from
behind a set of silver-rimmed spectacles.
He looks far more like a banker than a
sports writer, lacking both the flamboy-
ancy and that certain air of vagabondia
popularly, and fallaciously, associated
with the gentlemen of the press.
Yet Ward is a sports writer and, as
columnist and sports editor of the Chi-
cago Tribune, one of the highest paid
men in his profession. He also is one of
the most influential in the country and
one of the ablest sports promoters in his-
tory. More fans have purchased tickets
to events promoted or devised by Arch
than to all the promotions of Tex Rick-
ard and Mike Jacobs.
The All-Star football game is Ward’s
brain child, just as the All-Star baseball
game is entirely his creation.
By Tom Meany
Through the permission of Collier’s,
Notre Dame takes pleasure in reprint-
ing excerpts from an article in the Aug-
ust 12, 1950, issue. Mr. Ward has long
been one of Notre Dame’s most loyal
alumni. For the past three years Arch
Ward has served as City Chairman, in
Chicago, of the Notre Dame Foundation.
This past Spring he was honored by the
Chicago Alumni Club with a specially-
prepared scroll citing him as ‘Man of
the Year.’ Twenty years ago the late
Dr. John M. Cooney head of the Jour-
nalism department often remarked to his
classes that “Arch Ward is going to be
one of the top men in his field.’’
Mr. Ward
The late Dr. Harry A. March was
known to many as the father of profes-
sional football. It was a title the gentle
old doctor loved; but if he was the fa-
ther of professional football, Arch Ward
is its godfather, its spiritual adviser and
the person who put it on a paying basis.
Entirely through Arch’s efforts, the
Chicago Tribune was the first paper to
give eight-column banner headlines to
pro football on Monday mornings.
Ward’s decision to play up profession-
al football was no wild hunch, no altru-
istic gesture to a struggling sport. It
was made, as most of his decisions are,
with hard, cold sense and sound reas-
oning.
“What did we have in the sports pages
on Monday mornings during the football
season?” Arch recalls. “A couple of
hockey scores, maybe, and a dull rehash
of what had happened in Saturday’s col-
lege games, with possibly some specula-
tive stories about what the following
Saturday’s college schedule might pro-
duce. People were going to see pro foot-
ball games; people were interested in
pro football; therefore, it was news.”
As vice-president of Chicago Tribune
Charities, Inc., Ward has raised nearly
$5,000,000 for charity through various
promotions, of which the All-Star foot-
ball game is only one. Bowling, the
Golden Gloves boxing tournaments and
a week of charity horse racing are
among the others. In addition, Ward
promotes nonrevenue producing events
such as the Silver Skates, the Tribune
golf school and swimming races.
He was closely associated with the late
Knute Rockne at Notre Dame and was
his first publicity director, in 1919 and
1920, when the genius of Rockne as a
promoter as well as a football coach
began to gain recognition.
Born in Irwin, llinois, on December
27, 1896, Arch grew up in Lake City,
Iowa. His father was killed in a train
wreck while Arch was still an infant
and his mother died when he was in his
early teens. He was placed under the
guardianship of Father Daniel M. Gor-
man. Arch attended Loras Academy for
four years and then went on to Loras
College. After two years there, Ward
switched to Notre Dame and met Rock-
ne. His destiny was shaped.
After graduating from Notre Dame,
Arch served a four-year stretch as
sports editor of the Rockford, Illinois,
Star, and in 1925 joined the staff of the
Chicago Tribune. He became its sports
editor on April 14, 1930.
One of Ward’s greatest promotional
innovations nets nothing for Chicago
Tribune Charities, Inc., yet it possibly
gained him more recognition than any
other. That was the creation of .the an-
nual All-Star game between baseball
teams representing the American and
National Leagues, first conceived in 1933
as an adjunct to Chicago’s A Century of
Progress.
8 Notre Dame
DREAM GAMES
While Ward is the creator of the All-
Star football and baseball games, he has
gained equal fame with a promotion
which already was established and wait-
ing for him—the Golden Gloves.
In 1931, Ward decided to internation-
alize the Golden Gloves and brought over
the amateur champions of France to
meet the survivors of the American
elimination tournaments.
In addition to his multitudinous pro-
motional duties and responsibility for
running the largest sports department
in the world, Ward also covers top sports
events personally and conducts a daily
column, The Wake of the News, which
is best described as unique. Arch covers
the Kentucky Derby, the World Series,
heavyweight title fights, the All-Star
baseball game, a Bowl game every New
Year’s Day, and a football game every
Saturday. Because of his Notre Dame
background and connections, Arch re-
fuses to cover the Irish when they are
playing an opponent from “Chicago-
land,” i.e., the Middle West.
The Wake of the News is the oldest
continuous sports column in the United
States, having been originated in 1905
by Hugh E. Keough, who signed the col-
umn with his initials, “H.E.K.” Ward
is the sixth tenant of the column.
About half the column is written by
Ward, the rest by the contributors. A
survey of the Tribune revealed that more
men read The Wake of the News than
read the Tribune’s weather reports.
When Ward was guest of honor at the
testimonial dinner in April, the Tribune
sports page for the next day headlined
the story “Nation Salutes Arch Ward.”
Staff writer Ed Prell began his report
of the dinner, “Chicago and the nation
saluted Arch Ward last night,” an elab-
oration of the headline which should
have pleased Colonel McCormick who
never has thought that the nation, or
any section of it, should take precedence
over Chicago.
Ward is on intimate terms with the
Catholic hierarchy. One of his closest
friends is Bishop Sheil, founder of the
Catholic Youth Organization and a
staunch supporter of the Golden Gloves
as a means of combating juvenile delin-
quency. In 1939, when the cardinals
gathered in Rome to elect a Pope, Ward
was delegated to accompany the late
George William Cardinal Mundelein to
the conclave.
Writing an advance on the election,
in which he predicted the elevation of
Eugenio Cardinal Pacelli on the fourth
ballot (he was elected on the third)
Arch announced that, before Cardinal
Mundelein left to gather in solemn con-
clave with the other princes of the
Church, he had asked Ward to convey
his congratulations to Mayor Ed Kelly
on his success in the Democratic primaiv
ies in Chicago.
Ward’s ability to tie in Chicago with
world events is part of his appeal to
Tribune readers, and the reason why his
column averages 500 letters a day which
have to be screened by two assistants
lest they tie up all of his time. He dem-
onstrated the Chicago touch again by
describing the appearance of the newly
elected Pope as he stood before the
cheering multitude, on the balcony at St.
Peter’s and likening the roar to that of
the football crowd at Soldier Field.
Arch Ward receives 'Man of the Year' award from Notre Dame Alumni Club in Chicago.
Through his friendship with Cardinal
Mundelein, Ward was the first newspa-
perman granted an audience by Pope
Pius XII, five days after his election and
twelve days before the coronation. The
Cardinal introduced Ward with these
words: “This man is a journalist, a
sports writer whose newspaper, through
its sporting columns, has accomplished
much for Chicago charities and for our
metropolis.”
One of the tributes to Ward’s organi-
zational genius is that his sports staff,
generally respected throughout the na-
tion for its authoritative writing, is com-
posed virtually of the same men who
were there two decades ago when he was
named sports editor.
Prominent around the baseball press
boxes in Chicago is a chief usher named
Walt Johnson. It was he who pointed
out one of Arch’s best assets as a sports
editor. “He must be a good boss,” said
Walter, “because nobody who works for
him has ever quit.”
The WRANGLERS
University of Notre Dame Student Club Attracts Intellectual Elite on Campus
By Joseph M. Dukert
Articulated Wranglers discuss current topics.
A RE you well informed on labor prob-
x lems, international politics and his-
tory? Do you have a good background
in philosophy, economics and public
speaking? To top it all, do you have a
cum laude scholastic average of 85 per
cent or more?
If a student can answer “yes” to all
those requirements, he may be able to
join the Wranglers, Notre Dame’s amaz-
ing but little publicized super-seminar.
This year the Wranglers celebrate
their silver anniversary, but the event
seems to make little impression on the
oldest and most exclusive club on cam-
pus. Business goes on as usual each
Wednesday evening in the Law Building,
with topics of discussion ranging from
civil rights to socialism.
A "Wrangler meeting is a solemn
affair, made up principally of from two
to three hours of “aroused” discussion
on some topic of general interest. The
theme of any particular session is de-
termined by a formal paper read by one
of the members. It is not unusual for
a Wrangler to devote months of re-
search, reading, condensation and analy-
sis to a single 30-minute paper of this
type; but it still must stand the dignified
onslaught of his colleagues’ questions.
And those Wranglers can really wran-
gle!
The Wranglers are one campus club
that can always count on a good show-
ing at their meetings. A member who
misses more than one meeting without
an accepted excuse is automatically
ousted; and no one has ever been re-
admitted to the select circle. To make
things even tougher, need for study time
isn’t an acceptable excuse for these per-
fectionists. The members have to main-
tain their high averages without cutting
into meeting time.
The club takes its name from a so-
ciety founded at Cambridge by poet and
historian Thomas Macauley. Its objec-
tives, also modeled after the Cambridge
group, are set down as twin goals in the
constitution: “To add to our own knowl-
edge and, no less important, to stimulate
thought in others.”
Originally the Wranglers were an
honorary forensic group, with member-
ship restricted to men on the University
debating team. But a quarter century
of evolution has given the club its
present form, so that its present aim “is
not to group together the most eloquent
speakers on campus, but to cultivate the
forensic art in students who have ap-
(Continued on Page 20)
10 Notre Dame
J^Jark Van Doren* says people have
got poets all wrong. They picture
poets as pale, lost men, with long soft
hair, delicate tapering fingers, and an
expression of shy pain. They believe
poets exude beautiful expressions all
day long, lack any interest in money,
and are dreamy misfits in a cold, cruel
world.
If Van Doren needs examples to prove
the point that poets are people, he might
use John Frederick Nims, associate pro-
fessor of English at Notre Dame. For
Mr. Nims, a widely published poet, is
one of the many who prove that people
have this poetry business all wrong.
Here, for example, is how his life be-
littles that popular misconception: Al-
though he had a 98 average as a high
school freshman, his chief interest was
tennis. The average got less impressive
each year as the tennis got better and
better, until, as a senior, the city cham-
pion told him that he had the best back-
hand in Chicago. As a ranking Junior
in the midwest, he won the DePaul Uni-
versity championship in his freshman
year with a 6-0, 6-1 victory in the finals.
He has played only a few times since.
A more recent interest was pistol
shooting. Cut last fall he traded his
Colt Woodsman and ,38-Super for a set
of matched woods and irons — this he
considers the first symptom of senility.
But senility is still a good many years
off, for Nims is only 36. He was born
in Muskegon, Mich., and attended gram-
mar school there. He prepped at Leo
high school, Chicago, and put in two
years at DePaul before coming to Notre
Dame where he received his Bachelor of
Arts in 1937. He got his M.A. at Notre
Mr. Nims
John
Frederick
Nims
By Robert Brandt
Dame and his Ph.D., in Comparative
Literature at the University of Chicago
for works in Greek, Latin, French and
English tragedy.
Nims and his wife live in a ranch-
type red brick house on the edge of
Niles, Mich., a 15-minute drive from the
Notre Dame campus. Mrs. Nims, the
former Bonnie Larkin, graduated from
St. Mary’s in 1943. She is, perhaps, the
only girl in the history of the school who
was class president three out of four
years. For a couple of years she was
fashion copywriter for a national adver-
tising agency in Chicago. In 1947 she
gave up the Wrigley Building and the
Pump Room for her present edge-of-
campus existence. Her only comment on
the change: “Well, it’s different.”
Dogs are an interest the Ninis’ have
in common. Last year they had two
Irish setters named (for famous whis-
keys) Bushmill and Jameison. When
the setters proved too long-range for the
city, the Nims’ gave both to Father Leo
L. Ward: one is now chasing rabbits
on the Ward’s Otterbein, Ind., farm and
the othei' is getting a good deal of at-
tention at Moreau Seminary. Now the
Nims have a dog that’s more likely to
stay put: a handsome Hamlet-like collie
named Apple. Strictly a two-man dog,
Apple is gloomy with guests and shows
an embarrassing amount of delight when
they get up to go.
But to get back to John Nims as a
poet. He does not know why or how he
started to write; he says it started away
back. Anyway, his work has appeared
in Poetry, Partisan Review, Harper's
Commonweal, America, Kenyon Review,
Saturday Review of Literature, and Ac-
cent. He is intermittently an editor of
Poetry, a magazine of verse.
His work has won several prizes. Be-
fore he received his degree at Chicago,
he won the Billings Prize for poetry.
He has won three other poetry prizes:
The Harriet Monroe Award in 1942;
The Guarantor’s Prize in 1943, and The
Levinson Prize in 1944.
Also in 1944 his works were included
in Five Young American Peets, an an-
thology published by New Directions.
It featured the work of Nims, Ten-
nessee Williams, Eve Merriam, Jean
Garrigue, and Alejandro Carrion of
Ecuador.
The Iron Pastoral, a book of poetry,
followed in 1947.
Though it is still early for much criti-
cal comment, A Fountain in Kentucky
has been receiving favorable attention.
Wrote I. L. Saloman in the Safurd y
Review ot Literature: “The academi-
cians will be outraged by the nimble Mr.
Nims, who as an assoicate professor of
English at Notre Dame, writes in a lan-
guasre that sounds magnificently new.
(Continued on Page 19)
The author is a senior. majoring in
Journalism, and lives in Mishawaka, Ind.
During World TFnr II he was a member
of the U. S. Marine Corps, and was on
the staff of The Leatherneck, official
Corps magazine. Mr. Brandt's article is
reprinted from the Kotre Dame Scholas-
tic.
Vol. 3
No. 4
II

Cloister
“Show me your cloister/’ asks the Lady Poverty , of the friars.
And they, leading her to the summit of a hill, showed her the wide
world, saying: “This is our cloister: O Lady Poverty!”
Well, that were a cloister: for its bars
Long strips of sunset, and its roof the stars.
Four walls of sky, with corridors of air
Leading to chapel, and God everywhere
Earth beauteous and bare to lie upon,
Lit by the little candle of the sun.
The wind gone daily sweeping like a broom —
For these vast hearts it was a narrow room.
—CHARLES L. O’DONNELL, G.S.C.
‘ ‘Proudb
Glea
(Ninth in a series of articles on the history
of Notre Dame based on the book, “Notre
Dame One Hundred Years,” by Rev. Ar-
thur Hope, C.S.C. The Arena is abridged.)
£Uena
Causa Nostrae Laetitiae
(Dedicated to the University of Notre Dame, Indiana.)
There unrose a golden giant
On the gilded house of Nero
Even his far-flung flaming shadow and his image swollen large
Looking down on the dry whirlpool
Of the round Arena spinning
As a chariot-wheel goes spinning; and the chariots at the charge.
I have seen, where a strange country
Opened its secret plains about me,
One great golden dome stand lonely with its golden image, one
Seen afar, in strange fulfilment,
Through the sunlit Indian summer
That Apocalyptic portent that has clothed her with the Sun.
She too looks on the Arena,
Sees the gladiators in grapple,
She whose names are Seven Sorrows and the Cause of All Our Joy,
Sees the pit that stank with slaughter
Scoured to make the courts of morning
For the cheers of jesting kindred and the scampering of a boy.
“Queen of Death and Life undying
Those .about to live salute thee;
Not the crawlers with the cattle;. looking deathward with the Swine,
But the shout upon the mountains
Of tiie men that live for ever
Who are free of all tilings living but a Child; and He was thine.”
—G. K. CHESTERTON
rpHE words of the Alma Mater song
A which he composed contain not only
the title lines but the lines “And our
hearts forever love Thee, Notre Dame.”
And for Notre Dame he exhibited that
love to the extent of setting aside a bril-
liant identity as a poet, what must have
been his delight in scholarship and spir-
itual meditation, and a natural personal
aloofness from the world, to become one
of the best known administrators of his
time, in the midst of conditions which
demanded the most complete attention to
the details of administration. And in
the end of his term, his life itself was
poured into the conviction of the worth
of his cause.
Almost as Hoover, after a serene
Coolidge, reaped the economic whirlwind,
so Father Charles O’Donnell entered the
presidency of Notre Dame in 1928 on
what seemed to be the broad highroad
to development built by his predecessor,
Father Matthew Walsh. Experience as
an administrator in the Congregation
fortified him.
But conditions neither priest could
foresee or control were gathering in the
world outside.
First evidence that the poet and the
priest and the scholar were to be merged
with the practical administrator came
with the decision to build the Notre
Dame Stadium—to bring the game back
from the outside arenas to its propel'
focus on the campus from which its
champions came.
That the administrator had not for-
12
Notre Dame
y in the Heavens
ms the Gold and Blue"
Rev. Charles L. O'Donnell (1928-1934), Meets Crisis
After Crisis and Lays His Life on the Altar of His
Alma Mater to Contribute One of Its Great Eras
gotten the priest was evident in the
beautiful renovation of Sacred Heart
Church, delegated to the capable super-
vision of Rev. Lawrence Broughal.
And as the economic world outside
folded its inflated tents, Father O’Don-
nell, with the inspiration and the vision
and the power of a second Sorin, placed
upon the campus increasing monuments
to a faith in the destiny of Oui' Lady’s
school that grew stronger in adversity.
The College of Law was erected and
blessed by His Eminence, Patrick Car-
dinal Hayes.
The late Edward N. Hurley, impressed
by the steadfastness of purpose of
College of Commerce.
Father O’Donnell, contributed $200,000
to the erection of a College of Foreign
and Domestic Commerce because as he
said in his gift letter “The University of
Notre Dame is rendering valuable serv-
ice to American industry by educating
young men ...”
Campus life had long been the ideal
of University administrators. Father
O’Donnell, as student, editor of the first
Dome in 1906, and teacher, felt keenly
the need of residence halls. And he felt
the need of residence halls in the rich
traditions of the great universities of
Europe and their American counter-
parts. The result of this conviction was
the building of the beautiful Alumni and
Dillon Halls.
A classmate, John F. Cushing, c.E.,
’06, with proportionately magnificent
generosity, gave $300,000 for the erec-
tion of a College of Engineering Build-
ing, “because I find at Notre Dame the
conditions that make for the two-fold
training of great engineers in all the
departments of engineering, a technical
training that ranks with the best and a
training in character foundation nowhere
excelled ...”
The heating plant was expanded, not
only to take care of the new buildings
listed, but was so well planned that only
today, after 20 years of continuing ex-
pansion, is there again need for serious
expansion of the utility phases of the
campus.
And his constant jousts with the mar-
ket-place in his building program gave
him the insight to open the books of the
University so that its myth of wealth
was dispelled, and the tremendous strug-
gle to administer its assets so as to
realize its opportunities was first made
clear tO' alumni and friends.
No crisis in his administration had the
world impact, the implications of a
crashing temple, than the tragic death
of Knute Rockne on March 31, 1931, in
an airplane accident in Kansas. But
from the pulpit above the mortal remains
of the great coach, Father- O’Donnell
cast over his coffin the eloquent mantle
of immortality, painting in memorable
words for the whole world the great
principles from which Notre Dame de-
rives its strength and its spirit.
The Golden Jubilee of the Laetare
Medal, in 1933, assembled John McCor-
mack the Medalist of that year, and
former Medalists Alfred E. Smith, Dr.
James J. Walsh, Margaret Anglin, Jack
Spalding, Dr. Stephen Maher and
Charles D. Maginnis.
The series of lectures by the late G. K.
Chesterton was one of the highlights in
the long list of world figures who have
lectured at Notre Dame.
The many channels of his life and his
obligations, together "with the great tal-
ents which he contributed unselfishly to
them all, took great toll of his physical
resources. And on the day after the
Commencement exercises in 1934, Father
Charles L. O’Donnell joined the valiant
company of those whose crosses in the
Community cemetery on the campus
mark their love of Our Lady in the last
full measure.
Vol. 3
No. 4
13
let's talk
things
over
By William J. Eisen
National Debate Champion
William Carey.
University Theatre presentation
of "Rope."
Department of Speech Offers Varied Curriculum in
Fields of Debating, Theatre and Radio
Qhakespeare cautioned us to mend our
speech a little lest it mar our for-
tunes. Notre Dame takes that advice to
heart and provides a well-integrated and
well-diversified program of both class
and extraclass activities in speech. Man
has always felt a desperate need for
oral communication. Today our world
problems force us more than ever to
“talk things over.” Freedom of speech—
and its concomitant responsibility to
speak—are of the most vital importance
The author is head of Notre Dame’s
Department of Speech and Director of
the University Theatre. He is a native
of Milwaukee, Wis., and served in World
War II. Mr. Eisen received Ph.B. and
M.A. degrees from Marquette. He has
started work on his doctorate at North-
western.
when conflicting ideologies are vying for
world attention.
A man preparing for leadership needs
training in speech since leadership ex-
presses itself primarily through speech.
The Department of Speech provides
an elementary course in the fundament-
als of effective oral expression for all
freshmen in the College of Arts and
Letters, and a combination course apply-
ing the fundamentals to business and
the professions for advanced students in
the College of Commerce and in certain
departments of the College of Engineer-
ing. More advanced courses are offered
"Monsignor's Hour" provides opportunity for pageantry in one-act play.
An exercise to aid vocal variety
and control.

Radio Workshop trains students for Station WND.
as electives for junior and senior stu-
dents in any college of the University
and for certain graduate students. A
major sequence for the degree of bache-
lor of arts is offered to students in the
College of Arts and Letters.
The course work includes these areas
of speech: public speaking, radio, thea-
tre, speech science, interpretation, and
speech education, with special emphasis
on the first two. 'The extracurricular
program includes the Radio Workshop
and station WND, the University Thea-
tre, the Speech Workshop, and the De-
bate Teams.
WND is the student voice of Notre
Dame. It broadcasts daily, serving two
main purposes: listening enjoyment and
opportunity for student expression. The
Radio Workshop trains those who wish
to compete for various staff positions on
WND and also is an outlet for various
student talents.
The University Theatre schedules sev-
eral major productions each school year.
The plays represent various types each
season. The actors and crews thus gain
varied experiences while the theatre-
goers enjoy a balanced program. Ac-
tresses are recruited from Vetville, No-
tre Dame’s village for married students,
and also from Little Theatre groups in
South Bend.
The Speech Workshop was initiated at
student request to provide additional
training in public speaking for those
with crowded class schedules. All ses-
sions of the workshop are informal and
aim to begin or increase the students’
ease before an audience.
The Department of Speech conducts
both intramural and intercollegiate de-
bate programs. Among the honors gar-
nered during the 1949-1950 season, the
Pantomimic impersonation results in poise and self-confidence.
varsity debate teams won first place in
the Boston University National Invita-
tional Tournament, All - Tournament
Negative Team award at Georgetown
University, and Individual Speaker
Championship at the West Point Na-
tional Invitational Tournament.
Each Spring the department conducts
separate contests for Freshman Oratory,
The Breen Medal for Oratory, and the
Goodrich-Cavanaugh prizes. Notre Dame
is also a member of two oratorical
leagues and the Department of Speech
schedules preliminary contests and then
trains the University entrants.
In 1936 the Martin J. Regan Chair of
Public Speaking was established by a
bequest from the late William P. Breen,
’77. The income from the fund is ap-

plied to the salary of a professor of
public speaking.
A part of the educational philosophy
of the department can be succinctly ex-
pressed by quoting the Bulletin of the
College of Arts and Letters. “The aims
of the Department of Speech are simi-
lar to those cultural objectives of any
other area of liberal education. These
aims may be stated as character, com-
petence, understanding, and social use-
fulness. Quintilian defined an orator as
‘a good man skilled in speaking.’ The
ethical implications of that definition in-
fluence the instruction of the various
courses in speech. The student of speech
gains competence as he is instructed in
straight thinking and creative imagina-
tion, two important tools of an educated
man. Although proficiency in speech
does not automatically confer knowledge,
the student will find that the disciplines
of his own field and the motivation chal-
lenges of his own field will aid him in
gathering knowledge in other areas. The
debater will have reason to study the
social sciences, for example, and his
training in argumentation will aid him
in that study; the oral reader will
study literature with greater enthusiasm
and understanding because of his exper-
ience in interpretation, theatre, or radio.
“Lastly, the student of speech will be
capable of becoming socially useful,
thereby fulfilling his responsibility to his
fellow man. Oral communication has al-
ways been a highly useful tool and the
possession of proficiency in oral com-
munication can help to lead to moral,
responsible, and articulate leadership.
Sound speech education makes great
moment of the individual who frequently
is lost in the confusion of the modern
world.”

SUMMER SCHOOL
Notre Dame Students Absorb Culture and
Customs South of the Border
By Joseph M. Baker t
Souvenirs were plentiful in Old Mexico and bargaining reigned supreme.
“Dili. Riley climbed the “blood chute”
~LJ on the Pyramid of the Moon.
Bob Peterson rode a bull.
Ted Delyra caught a 105-pound sail-
fish.
Jim Sears learned to pronounce “Po-
pocateptl” and “Ixtaccihuatl” just like
a native.
There was nothing dull about Notre
Dame’s fourth annual Summer* Session
in Mexico! Throughout the 10-week
course, the ND students made new
friends, visited points of interest, pol-
ished up their Spanish, and examined a
liberal sample of Mexican food, customs,
and culture.
As a matter of fact, many of the
students who made the trip believe that
these extra-curricular excursions were
even more important than the formal
classes held at Mexico City College. And
The author has been a frequent con-
tributor to Notre Dame. This past Sum-
mer he attended Mexico City College
where Notre Dame students zvere en-
rolled in a 10-week course. Mr. Dukert
will graduate in June, 1951, with an
A.B. degree in Journalism. His photos
illustrate this article.
Professor Walter M. Langford, head of
the Department of Modern Languages
at Notre Dame, agrees.
“The best way to learn a language is
to use it,” says Professor Langford.
“The best way to study a country is to
explore it personally.
“At Mexico City College, the students
from Notre Dame studied the same sub-
jects they might have taken here on the
University campus—like economics, his-
tory, sociology, and writing. But after
listening to a lecture on primitive agra-
rianism in Mexico this summer, they
could visit a real Mexican farm and
question the farmer personally. After
reading a chapter of 19th century his-
tory, they could go to Maximilian’s pal-
ace and inspect the sites where much of
that history was made. While writing a
term paper on industrialism, they could
see the whole process of mechanization
being acted out right before their eyes
—from individual, crude hand-work
shops to ultra-modern factories.
“Above all, they could practice their
Spanish everywhere they went. A com-
bination of English and sign language
will get you a long way in Mexico; but
sooner or later during the summer they
had to start learning the language of
the country—not in isolated words and
endings, but in idiomatic phrases, the
way the Mexicans really speak it. And
16
Notre Dame
a la M^ico
if they’re serious students of Spanish,
they had an extra classroom in every
market place, restaurant, and movie
theater.”
It didn’t take long for the ND stu-
dents to adjust themselves to these off-
campus classrooms, either. Aftei' the
first few days the blue-and-white Turis-
ta cards stopped peeking conspicuously
out of their front pockets, and the “I
am a foreigner” shine worked out of
their actions.
One of the first things they learned
was the old Mexican practice of hag-
gling. All Mexican merchants have two
prices for their goods—the “asking”
price and their minimum sale price.
From the U. S. viewpoint, both are ex-
tremely low; but students with carefully
regulated purse-strings soon learned that
a peso here and a peso there could add
up to big savings over the 10-week
period.
Jack Barrett, a junior in Arts and
Letters, took only two or three days to
evolve his own personal system of deal-
ing with the million-and-one vendors
who besiege everybody in Mexico.
“I always start off by refusing the
article, no matter what it is or how
cheap the first price is,” Jack explains.
“But I look interested, and then I ask
casually what the price is.
“No matter what answer he gives me,
I throw up my hands and yell ‘Caram-
ba!’ If he wants 100 pesos I offer him
60; if he asks for 50, I say 35; if it’s
something for three pesos, I start out at
75 centavos.
“My offer is just as ridiculous as his;
but somewhere in between, we’ll get to-
gether on a price suitable to both of us.
Then we make the exchange and walk
away from each other slowly, muttering
to ourselves and looking very forlorn—
as if both of us had just been robbed.
It’s all part of the act!”
Generally, the students can live very
cheaply during the special Notre Dame
summer session. Even without haggling,
you can get a good steak dinner, with
all the trimmings, for less than half a
dollar in Mexico City. The present rate
of exchange is 8.65 pesos to the dollar
which gives the tourist a real break.
One man budgeted himself to ten dollars
a week, and even managed to buy sou-
venirs for the folks back home with the
money he saved.
In the summertime, at least, Mexico is
a poor sightseer’s Paradise. For a group
of students, it’s ideal. The magnificent
marble-stairwayed hotels at Acapulco
have special rates for off-season visitors;
and the students had the opportunity to
relax on week-ends in the plush Pacific
Coast beach resort for about the same
amount they’d spend on a much more
prosaic visit to Coney Island.
It was at Acapulco that three mem-
bers of the Notre Dame group took their
“dream” fishing trip. While tanning to
the color of three chocolate bars, the trio
hauled sand-sharks and sailfish aboard
like veterans. The smallest catch weigh-
ed 95 pounds, and the captain assured
them that they were having “just aver-
age luck.”
In the field of athletics Mexico pro-
vided lots of interesting diversion also.
Besides the famous Mexican League
brand of baseball, sport fans could watch
bull fights, soccer matches, and exhibi-
tions of “the fastest game in the world”
—jai-alai!
Gradually, many of the students got
to be “Mexicans by adoption.” They
learned to refer to the U. S. as “the
States” and Mexico as “the Republic”
(Mexicans become very indignant when
their neighbors to the North try to
monopolize the title of “Americans”).
They learned to summon waiters with a
weird sound that seems to be a cross
between a hiss and a mouse’s squeak.
They got over most of their resentment
at taking chaperones along on their
dates with Mexican girls. Most impor-
tant of all, they came to understand
more clearly the character and qualities
of the Mexican people.
“With the world shrinking rapidly as
it is, we can’t afford to be provincial
any longer,” Professor Langford says.
“Europe is only hours away, and Mexico
is right next door. That short contact
with a strange culture was good for ihe
students. Sure, it might have confused
them at first. But the value of getting
away from a narrow, confined environ-
ment for a short time is worth the
trouble. When the traveling can be com-
bined with study, as it is in our pro-
gram, it’s doubly effective.”
Bob Peterson rode a bull — it says here.
But if Mexico had a strong effect on
the ND students who went there this
summer, they repaid the country by in-
troducing some innovations of their
own. On the road to Veracruz one sun-
ny afternoon, the Mexican peons paused
in their work and stared at a most un-
usual sight—a familiar scene to all from
the States. Two young “Nortamerica-
nos” were standing at the edge of the
road, gesturing at the passing autos
with their thumbs. “The motorists were
so startled that most of them stopped,”
Tom Roemer told me later. “A lot of
them had never seen a hitchhiker before,
(Continued on Page 22)

Pyramid of the Moon is 100 feet up.
Vol. 3 • No. 4	17

} ***
fox
* fund®


haveUity to lnC>i 3^eodore reax^
ass&sgs =- Vsa
•xxxent- pitodaV- -Kjotre	vea^erI
of "hope\ q:he ^^t-ointed o sOxne $ ^xH Anvr^t°U
coanQaff,
Xnfuntarx M ooo xn	d to sy ts of to	e\
y cr^sadeA	-plan piisixxS £ cyease	;
Gmiy 'O the Versify Cf ^uildxhg- ^taiaedp '
^ ?ne	aiso^t does\,
C v*\qq9- kv><>r	thA'
Father Theodore M. Hesburgh, c.s.c., Executive Vice-President
BREAKS GROUND for the new Science Building as members of
the Science and Engineering Council and faculty look on. From left
to right: Father Philip S. Moore, c..s.c., Dr. E. G. Kleiderer, Mr.
Earle Smith, Dean L. H. Baldinger, Mr. Daniel Heekin, Mr. P. C.
Reilly (behind Fr. Hesburgh), Mr. Bradley Dewey, Mr. W. S. Gal-
cott, Mr. H. S. Vance, Mr. Britton I Budd, Mr. Lee Gary and
Father John Reddington, c.s.c.
NEEDS:
Notre Dame’s urgent and immediate needs, which it is hoped
may be met through the generous help of alumni and other
friends:
Equipment for the new buildings...........1
Expansion of the steam plant, extension of
utilities, additions of generators for power..
Sewage disposal system....................
Maintenance Building......................
Total	:
.$ 650,000
. 1,400,000
. 400,000
. 600,000
$3,050,000
Lhe dec is,
tickets ? for an in the
Same.
ts-
SiUy’ b«. .v
°”« (1) do^ “ ^•'•isio’T.«?• I see
y do ^hateVer y°* the enter4iJ?U forward
u Wlsh with -t ent y0
Excerpts from letters (top) sent by a non-alumnus
banker in Chicago and (bottom) a non-Catholic in
Detroit. Both are indicative of interest in and sup-
port of the University of Notre Dame.
18
Notre Dame
JOHN FREDERICK NIMS
(Continued from Page 11)
A Catholic poet he is not pietistic; a
student of the classics, he is not a prissy
stuffed-shirt.”
The Chicago Sun has compared Nims
to Carl Sandburg, the great Chicago
poet. “Nims is a poet who sees the com-
plexity of modern urban-industrial civi-
lization more clearly than the earlier
Chicago poet ever did and expresses his
vision in a more orderly, eloquent
manner.”
Not all praise came from reviewers
alone. For example Father Donald
Temple of Chicago said that he would
base his Christmas sermon on “Christ-
mas,” a poem included in A Fountain in
Kentucky. And A. I. Hayakawa, author-
of the best-selling Language in Action,
read some of the poems in a lecture on
semantics.
A large selection of Nims’ work, with
prose commentary, is in the recently
published Mid-Century American Posts,
edited by John Ciardi. The book was
published partly as a text anthology for
classes in contemporary poetry.
Nims is teaching contemporary poetry
at present, along with Shakespeare, and
comparative tragedy. His students say
that humor brightens his classes, noth-
ing slapstick or hilarious, but humor
full of meaning. Few students fall
asleep in those classes. As Nims said,
“only 4.8%. The rest whose eyes are
closed and shaded are sunk in a con-
templation so profound it is frequently
almost impossible to distract them.”
Crowded as his schedule is with lec-
tures, papers, poems, dogs, and now
divots, Nims takes time off to do minor
work around the house. Whether it is
setting up a cedar post or putting a
hinge back on a battered storm door, he
shows some modest talent with gadgets
other than a typewriter. He and Nor-
bert Engels, professor in Shakespeare
at Notre Dame and author of Man
About the House, paneled the poet’s
study shortly after he moved to Niles.
Poems grow out of living a normal
life, not from fleeing from it, Nims will
tell you. He points out that T. S. Eliot
and Wallace Stevens have insisted late-
ly that a poet cannot be poet alone.
In Five Young American Poets, Nims
wrote: “Poetry is, I suppose, essentially
wonder. A prodding ‘Why?’ is the poet’s
angel; he collects meaning as the ty-
rant collects bombers or the rich man
chips of money. More than others, he
is a spectator in the stadium of being,
sometimes cheers and sometimes curses
at the brilliant, cruel and lovely game
he never quite can fathom.”
Nims believes that the human situa-
tion is far more interesting than poetry,
over which he rarely finds himself
brooding. He never resolves to write
any particular poem, but he finds some
aspect of reality so exciting that he can
hardly keep from expressing it. Most
of his poems were written when his mind
was quite far from thoughts of poetry.
As for subject matter, he believes that
poetry may comment on anything, with
its limits the limits of life itself. Any
aspect of reality whether it be the pool-
room, or a plane crash, or a day at the
beach is sufficient for poetry.
Structurally, Nims said, poetry is
girded with logic; the diction is simple
and intense; it is concrete; it has a defi-
nite and Mozartean structure—“Some-
thing stronger and shapelier than the
Debussy twinkle and Wagnerian yowl
to which the freer forms of poetry
incline.”
These opinions were expressed six or
seven years ago. “I might put things
differently now,” he admits, “in fact, I
think I did put them differently in Mid-
Century American Poets. But what is
quoted above is probably as accurate as
writers are likely to be about their own
work.”
As writer and editor, Nims has met
many poets. So he should be able to
answer the question: “What about the
‘pale lost man’ Van Doren mentions?
Is that the typical poet?”
“Well,” says Nims, “I’ve met poets
who looked like (and were) tail gunners
from the South Pacific; poets who looked
like (and were) insurance men who
might be Men of Distinction; poets who
looked like (and were) girls in blue
jeans from Bennington or Sarah Law-
rence; poets who looked like (and were)
unshaven drunks in a Third Avenue bar.
There are as many kinds of poets (na-
turally) as there are kinds of people.
There may even be that ‘pale lost man
. . . with an expression of shy pain.’
But I can’t say I’ve ever met him.”
N.D. History Professor
Given Research Grant
Dr. Aaron I. Abell, Associate Profes-
sor of History at the University of
Notre Dame, has received a grant of
$1,000 from the Social Science liesearch
Council to aid him in research on the
Catholic social history of the United
States.
Besides his larger works, Dr. Abell
has also written a number of articles on
the same topic for The Review of Poli-
tics, political science quarterly journal
published at the University of Notre
Dame. He has been a member of the
Notre Dame faculty since 1945.
Official Chauffeur Dies
After 40 Years of Service
Notre Dame lost its official chauffeur
and one of its most colorful and friendly
personages recently when John Mangan,
66, died after an illness of several
months.
Mr. Mangan
He was born in Ireland, came to the
University 40 years ago, and was the
Notre Dame chauffeur since 1910.
During his career on campus Mr.
Mangan chauffeured such dignitaries as
Pope Pius XII, John McCormack, Alfred
E. Smith, G. K. Chesterton, and Admiral
Chester W. Nhnitz. During the Admir-
al’s visit to the University, Mangan de-
feated him in a game of horseshoes.
Advertising Techniques
Taught in Lecture Series
Latest techniques in the field of ad-
vertising were studied by nearly 100
representatives of advertising firms
from all parts of the United States that
attended a special Outdoor Advertising
School recently at the University.
Sponsors of the school were the Out-
door Advertising Foundation at Notre
Dame, in conjunction with the Outdoor
Advertising Association of America.
Dean James E. McCarthy, of the Col- -
lege of Commerce, was director of the
school.
Instructors at the school included
prominent advertisers and advertising
agency executives, outdoor advertising
leaders, plant operators and specialists
in all phases of outdoor advertising.
Lectures and demonstrations on widely-
varied advertising subjects featured the
course.
Vol. 3
No. 4
19

WWW
The Wranglers
(Continued from Page 10)
parent speaking abilities or possibili-
ties.”
Before the war, the Wranglers spon-
sored an annual interhall debate tourna-
ment, in which the members acted as
coaches for the various residence hall
teams. Another project was the Indiana
Catholic High School Oratorical Contest,
the finals of which were held each year
at Notre Dame.
During World War II, when most of
the peacetime “ciwie” groups suspended
activities temporarily, the Wranglers
kept a tight hold on their traditions,
put their heads down and came through
intact. The membership dwindled dur-
ing some of the V-12 years; but the
requirements stayed stubbornly at their
stratospheric level. Much of the credit
for this persistence must be given to
Professor Frank O’Malley, who is now
in his 9th year as moderator of the
Wranglers.
Joining the Wranglers is anything but
a simple process. Twice each year a
membership committee of four men calls
for applications. Every prospect is inter-
viewed individually. Then the applicant
presents a five-minute talk at a regular
Captain Jerry Groom leads 1950 Irish squad.
Two New Members Named
ly served as art correspondent for “Har-
pers” with the Army of the West in
1862-63. His “Le Retour” was the first
American painting ever purchased by
the Luxembourg Gallery.

meeting, and answers questions after-
wards. But those are the preliminaries.
A three-fourths majority vote of ap-
proval is the last step required for
acceptance.
That the Wranglers attract the in-
tellectual elite of the University is clear
from the record of the members after
graduation. Their 1947 president, Jim
Greene, is now a Rhodes Scholar at
Oxford; Bill Pfaff, one of last year’s
officers, is already an assistant editor of
Commonweal; Lou Burns made a coast-
to-coast name for himself even before
graduating by directing the national
Student Relief Campaign. This is just
a typical trio of very recent members
. . . the full list is long and impressive.
The little membership key worn by
each Wrangler may not unlock the door
to success by itself. But it’s a good
indication that its owner has what it
takes to push his way through on his
own!
O'Shaughnessy Gift
(Continued from Page 7)
tical science, English, journalism, mod-
ern languages, classical languages, edu-
cation, speech, art and music. Thirty-two
class rooms would be constructed.
The Chicago Journal of Commerce
once described Mr. O’Shaughnessy as “a
rugged individualist, a man who never
has hesitated to go the limit in standing
for his principles ... a man of many
accomplishments and interests in the
business, civic, philanthropic and reli-
gious fields. . . .”
Father Cavanaugh stated that the
structure would be known as the
O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts
Building.
Valuable Painting Given
To Notre Dame Art Gallery
“Forging the Cross,” a large painting
by the noted artist Henry Mosier, has
been presented to the Wightman Memor-
ial Art Gallery at the University of
Notre Dame by Mrs. J. Fuller Feder, of
New York City, daughter of Mr. Mosier.
The painting, valued at $5,000, is the
second Mosier work to be presented to
the Notre Dame gallery. Mr. Peter C.
Reilly, President of the Reilly Tar and
Chemical Corporation in Indianapolis,
Ind., in 1944 presented the gallery with
a later painting of Mr. Mosier entitled,
“Woman in a Cabbage Patch.” Mr.
Reilly is a member of the Associate
Board of Lay Trustees at Notre Dame.
Mr. Mosier, who died in 1920, former-
Two of the nation’s leading figures in
science and industry have accepted mem-
bership on the Advisory Council for
Science and Engineering at the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, it was announced
recently by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,
c.s.c., President of Notre Dame.
New members of the Notre Dame
council are Charles S. Beardsley, Chair-
man of the Board of Miles Laboratories,
Inc., Elkhart, Ind., and Daniel M. Heek-
in, President of the Heekin Can Com-
pany, Cincinnati, O.
Mr. Beardsley, a former attorney,
joined the staff of the Miles Laborator-
ies in 1926. He served as Vice-President
in Charge of Advertising and Sales from
1931 to 1944 and was president from
1944 to 1947. He assumed his present
duties as Chairman of the Board of
Miles Laboratories in 1947.
Mr. Heekin received a mechanical
engineering degree from Purdue Univer-
sity in 1910. He has been associated with
the Heekin Can Company, Cincinnati, O.,
since his graduation and now serves the
company as president.
Steel Worker Donates...
2,000 Books
Volumes to Notre Dame Library From a Friend
TOSEPH KOTCKA’S determination to
become self-educated in spite of vary-
ing circumstances, is the reason Notre
Dame’s library is richer by 2,000 books.
Born 38 years ago in the steel town of
Homestead, Pa., Mr. Kotcka is the li-
brary’s largest benefactor in book dona-
tions. As a youngster he began collect-
ing his books—purchasing them, at first,
from proceeds of his newspaper route.
As he grew older and his boyhood
dream of attending the University of
Notre Dame faded, he realized that only
through reading could he acquire the
education he wanted so much. And as
he grew his library grew with him.
Several years ago he decided that the
more than 2,000 volumes, which had ac-
cumulated, were beginning to lie idle on
the shelves. He had already read them
but now thought they should be placed
to be of some benefit for- others. Valued
at $6,000, the books began to arrive at
Notre Dame’s library in weekly pack-
ages.
At an early age, Mr. Kotcka, who is
of Slovakian descent, was forced to earn
his own living after his father’s death.
He moved to Clairton, Pa., with his
mother where he obtained various jobs.
Joseph Kotcka had his heart set on
enrolling at the University of Notre
Dame. In addition to selling papers in
Clairton, he also worked at the munici-
pal playground. But the depression ar-
rived to put a damper on his cherished
dream of being a Notre Dame student.
At the age of 16 years, when most boys
have plenty of time for football and the
like, Joseph Kotcka started to work in
the steel mills.
It was during his first year in the steel
mills that Mr. Kotcka began to mail
shipments of books to Notre Dame. He
was much interested in subjects such as
history, economics, sociology and inter-
national affairs.
At that time, Notre Dame and Car-
negie Tech were engaged in a series of
football contests which used to delight
followers of both teams, because the
games were always hard-fought and in-
The story of Mr. Kotcka is more than
just a story of giving. It is typical of
interest manifested in the University of
Notre Dame by friends who are aware
of this University’s academic stature.
teresting. But Joseph Kotcka’s esteem
for the University of Notre Dame did
not stem from having seen them in ac-
tion against Tech — he also had high
regard for Our Lady’s University as an
institution which was concerned with the
FAMOUS BOOKS
SENT TO N.D.
The University of Notre Dame
library is one of 75 libraries
throughout the United States
selected to display a collection
of famous writings reprinted by
the Peter Pauper Press, Mt. Ver-
non, N. Y.
The collection, which includes
such classics as Gulliver’s Travels,
The Compleat Angler, 'Cyrano de
Bergerac and the sonnets of John
Keats, will be on display in the
main lobby of the library through-
out October. After the display
period, the books will become the
property of the university.
Notre Dame was selected to dis-
play the collection because of a
letter from Library Director Paul
R. Byrne. The letters from the
various libraries were judged by
a committee composed of Clifton
Fadiman, Christopher Morley,
Frederic G. Melcher and Peter
and Edna Beilenson, owners of the
printing company.
The Peter Pauper Press is a
small personal establishment that
specializes in reprinting literary
classics in handsomely bound and
printed volumes that are within
financial reach of the book collec-
tor of modest means.
educating of young men to be moral and
responsible leaders.
During World War II, Mr. Kotcka
tried to secure an overseas post with the
State Department in the Central Euro-
pean Division. He was well-versed in
Slavic affairs and frequently wrote book
reviews for Slavic newspapers in this
country. He always received a book,
from the author, as a result of his ef-
forts in reviewing the works. These, too,
were given to the library at Notre Dame.
Mr. Kotcka is now a sheet mill inspec-
tor for Carnegie Steel Corporation in
Clairton. His books, all non-fiction, are
still being received at the Notre Dame
library. Recently he decided to dedicate
some of his books to his mother and
father, both now deceased. Plates in-
scribed to their memory were placed on
each volume which he donated.
Because a person’s education is never
complete, Joseph Kotcka is still buying
and reading good books, and in time,
they too, will find their way into the
Notre Dame library where all who
chance to read them will find inscribed
on their bookplates the phrase, “Contrib-
uted by Joseph Kotcka, Clairton, Penn-
sylvania.”
Mr. Kotcka
Vol. 3 * No. 4	21
SUMMER SCHOOL
(Continued from Page 17)
but they soon got the idea . . . and we
got the ride.”
Several weeks later, a couple of other
ND students hitched some more rides;

Summer School Students catch sailfish in Mexico.
but these were a lot more bumpy! While
visiting an old hacienda near Toluca,
they were invited by their hosts to try
their hands at bull-riding. After receiv-
ing their friends’ assurance that these
were “nice, friendly little bulls,” they
tried. The first ride lasted through only
three seconds of playful romping, but
the second student stayed on a bit long-
er. After five or six seconds he got
cocky and pulled one hand free to wave
at his friends . . . and an ND T-shirt
hit the dust!
If the means of entertainment in Mex-
ico City were varied, though, the classes
open to ND students at Mexico City
College were just as interesting and un-
usual. Although the college was started
on a shoestring only 10 years ago, it
now boasts some of the finest instructors
in the Western Hemisphere.
One of the creative writing courses at
the MCC summer session is based on a
unique plan. At regular intervals, the
students in the course make all-day “ob-
servation visits” to various sections of
the city and suburbs. One day they may
spend several hours observing blind beg-
gars. Another time, they may study a
native market. Then they prepare care-
ful character sketches of what they have
seen. The professors—all of whom are
well acquainted with Mexican life and
habits—criticize the assignments both
from the standpoint of accuracy and
writing technique.
“All in all, our students have been
most pleased with the special summer
course,” says the Rev. Alfred Mendez,
c.s.c., who acted as moderator for the
group this summer. “There are always
advantages to attending school in a
foreign land; but they seem to be doubl-
ed when the project is carried out on a
group plan. Besides having friends han-
dy in case of emergency, the student
who visits Mexico with our group has
little worry about the acceptibility of
the credits he earns there. We can ad-
vise them before and during the session
about classes, outside work, etc.
“Ever since we made our first summer
arrangement with Mexico City College
back in 1947, wm have found the officials
of the college eager' to help us and our
students. I had a wonderful time there
this summer, and I hope I can return
again next year.”
There are many Notre Dame men who
echo Father Mendez’s wash to return.
Because there’s nothing dull about that
annual summer session in Mexico—it’s
like going to school in Paradise!
PHOTO CREDITS
Bruce Harlan, University staff
photographer; Chicago Tribune;
Notre Dame Scholastic; Depart-
ment of Public Information, Notre
Dame; Joseph Dukert; Wally
Kunkle.
Notre Dame on TV Shows;
Ben Duffy Plan for 1950-51
Putting Notre Danie’s home games
and the Navy game at Cleveland on live
television (Dumont network) this year
gives the University an opportunity
never before presented an institution, to
tell its story to the public.
In addition to the games, there will
be 30-minute pre-game television shows
immediately prior to the opening kick-
off. These pre-game shows will tell
the story of Notre Dame, including its
historical growth, student life, research
activities, academic phases and future
plans. Father Cavanaugh will be inter-
viewed before each game on TV.
The number of viewers is estimated
in the millions. The opportunity for en-
couraging additional good wrill towards
the University is being taken by the
Notre Dame Foundation in the form of
a stepped-up campaign to tell the
school’s friends of its continuing and
urgent needs.
The Foundation’s program for 1950-51
lists these most urgent needs: Equip-
ment for several of the new buildings,
$650,000; expansion of the steam plant,
extending utilities to new buildings, ad-
dition of power generators, $1,400,000;
sewage disposal system, $400,000; con-
struction of a maintenance building,
$600,000.
These needs, adding up to a sum
slightly in excess of $3,000,000, are vital
—and urgent. The present steam plant
after twenty years of operation, is in
need of substantial repair and improve-
ment.
The newest phase of Foundation ac-
tivities is planned to raise $1,000,000
annually through small contributions of
$10, and more, from Notre Dame’s thou-
sands of friends.
Fortunately, Mr. Bernard Duffy, pres-
ident of Batton, Barton, Durstine & Os-
born, the top advertising agency in the
nation, has been pleased to volunteer
his services in this connection. His in-
terest has been so intense and whole-
hearted, his time and talent so gener-
ously granted that the central office of
the Foundation has taken to calling this
phase of the Foundation’s activity not
the Mass Appeal Plan, but the Ben
Duffy Plan.
One of the obvious and most necessary
requirements for success of the Ben
Duffy Plan is the actual personal cir-
culation by the alumni and other friends
of the brochures prepared for the cam-
paign. It was agreed that the simplest
and most immediate method of actual
distribution of brochures is the direct
mailing to each alumnus from the cen-
tral Foundation Office.
22
Notre Dame
Xotn Dumi , Indiana, th? sum of S .. _ —	---- dollars.
All iht it st, rtsidiii . and it maindt / of my t stats, both it al and pt isonal, I iq'vt , dt vise, and bi queath
to tin I nivt rsity of Xotn Danit du la<, a t orporation, loeattd at Xotrt Damt, Indiana.

PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS