


h,
■1 — 1
Notre Dame
JUNE
March 13, 19 56*
THE WHITE HOUSE
WASHINGTON
Dear Father Hesburgh;
Thank you for your telegram, giving me advance
notice of the selection of General Gruenther as
Laetare Medalist for 1956. So far as I am con-
cerned, Notre Dame could not have chosen a
more distinguished and worthy citizen for this
tribute. Moreover, I feel, as I am sure
General Gruenther does, that there is no other
institution from which he could with gr
receive such an award.
With warm personal regard,

_ o M Hesburgh, CSC,
Reverend Theodore M.
president
Univ er
euH	r^-^c*
sity of Notre Dame,
Notre Dame,
Indiana.


1956
2
3
6
7
8
10
12
13
14
16
*. Great Teachers
Building (of) Vocations
for the Holy Cross Fathers
John Cackley
President’s Page
Football for Fulbright
Academic Affairs
Geology ft AH About
^^dC.GutscM^p^
Politics Institute
Gilbert Cipriano
“So I Socked Him”
Here Comes That
(Notre Dame) Band!
Thomas J. Guilfoile
The Notre Dame Tamil;
James E. Armstrong
19 St "Regions
Each Other?
John A. O’Brien
^Printed fem LOOK Maga2fne
VOLUME 9
NUMBER 2
a
Great Teachers
Capsule Ke view of faculty Development Program
Notre Dame initiated the Faculty Develop-
ment Program in 1953 with a two-fold objec-
tive for the immediate future: a) implementing
the present faculty with 45 additional outstand-
ing professors., the cost of which would prima-
rily be underwritten by corporations; b) provide
the financial means affording members of the
present faculty the opportunity of taking ad-
vance studies in leading American and Euro-
pean universities.
Now, three years later, the Faculty Develop-
ment Program has continued to progress with
marked success. Generous contributions, from
corporations and from individuals, have been
utilized to attract twenty permanent and
temporary ‘distinguished professors’ to the No-
tre Dame faculty. The University is seeking
financial assistance for this important program
during the current calendar year.
For informational reasons, a question and
answer review, in capsule form, is presented
for all of NOTRE DAME’s readers — alumni
and other friends of the University.
Isn't the Notre Dame faculty adequate without
the added expense of enlisting 'distinguished pro-
fessors'?
There have been many outstanding teachers
at the University of Notre Dame prior to the
Faculty Development Program and the Uni-
versity considers its present academic staff to be
highly competent and prepared for the great
task entrusted to them. ‘Distinguished profes-
sors’ will help strengthen, even further, Notre
Dame’s plan to be ranked as one of the world’s
leading universities.
From what sources, other than corporate gifts,
will the revenue be received for this Program?
Unrestricted gifts from alumni and non-
alumni are being allocated for Faculty Devel-
opment in 1956. It is to be assumed that indus-
try will again contribute substantially just as
was done during the past year.
How much is needed for faculty development?
Father Hesburgh has estimated that a mini-
mum total of $450,000 annually is necessary
if this Program is to be successful.
To what extent has industry and individual
donors realized the importance of the Faculty De-
velopment Program at Notre Dame?
During 1955, $650,713.55 was invested by
corporations, foundations and individual con-
tributors in the improvement of the Univer-
sity’s professorial staff.
Why not pnss along this increased expenditure
to the parents of students rather than attempting
to secure it from corporations, alumni and other
friends?
This is considered unwise by administration
officials at Notre Dame as well as authorities
in various educational organizations who have
studied this particular problem. Many deserv-
ing students would be unable to attend classes
on Our Lady’s campus if this additional cost
was their responsibility.
Will the Ford Foundation gift of $2,630,300 be
sufficient for defraying complete cost of the Faculty
Development Program within the next year or so?
Notre Dame will receive only the invested
income from the Ford Foundation gift for the
next ten years. Theoretically, if this money is
invested at 4%, it would yield about $105,000
annually for Faculty Development. As stated
already by Father Hesburgh, a minimum total
of $450,000 each year is required.
Who are some of the ’distinguished professors'
added to Notre Dame's faculty?
Probably the best known is Ivan Mestrovic
who is recognized as the world’s greatest sculp-
tor of religious subjects. Several others include:
Dr. Vladimir Seidel, noted mathematician;
Father Philip Hughes, an internationally famed
historian; Dr. Joseph A. Becker, research
physicist for the Bell Telephone Laboratories;
Dr. Antonio de Luna, an authority on natural
and international law; Rev. Guillaume de Ber-
ber de Sauvigny, an authority on 19th century
French history; and Dr. Robert G. Turner, for-
mer presidential economic advisor and one of
the nation’s outstanding economists.
The University of Notre Dame will gratefully accept financial support from non-alumni friends
as well as alumni. Your INVESTMENT in education should be made payable to the University
of Notre Dame and mailed to the Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana. Donors will
receive an attractively designed wallet-size acknowledgment gift card.
Building (of) Vocations in . ..
Al A PAT I Err
vLlr wv/LLiLvltl
By John Cackley
St. Thomas Aquinas said, “It is bet-
ter to enter religion, to give it a trial
than not to enter at all. ...”
At the present time, 35 young men
are preparing for the priesthood in
the new training program inaugurated
by the Holy Cross Fathers at Notre
Dame’s Old College Seminary.
For a building that has been in use
since 1843, Old College conceals quite
well the march of time. This structure
symbolizes the traditions, nostalgia and
great sacrifices made by Father Sorin
and the seven Brothers when they
founded Our Lady’s University more
than a century ago. It is the only
original building still remaining and
is sometimes referred to as “the cradle”
of Notre Dame.
Overlooking St. Mary’s Lake, on the
campus, Old College at one time in the
history of Notre Dame was “the Uni-
versity.” Its 16 rooms contained a re-
fectory, classrooms, dormitories, kitch-
en, laundry, and bedrooms for Father
Sorin and the Brothers.
Old College has been given a “face
lifting” to serve its new purpose. Two
recreation rooms, an office for consul-
tation and a snack bar have been
added. Walls that revealed a tendency
to sag have been restored. Fresh paint
is evident in various parts of the house.
From a casual glance, the campus
visitor would not be aware that these
men are seminarians. They do not wear
cassocks or birettas which come at a
later stage of their training for ordina-
tion. They attend classes, eat in the
University Dining Hall and dress the’
same as other students.
But there is a difference regardless of
appearances. Candidates studying for
the priesthood in Old College must
adhere to a spiritual and wholesome
daily schedule. They arise at 6 a.m.
and have morning prayer at 6:25, fol-
lowed by Mass at 6:45 in the Log
Chapel. Chores around the house and
breakfast precede classes or studies at
8:30.
Dinner is served at noon and at 1:30
p.m. classes or studies are resumed un-
til 5:30. However, it is during the
afternoon period that an hour of active
recreation must be taken outdoors.
Religious and spiritual reading are held
at 5:30 followed by the evening meal.
Night prayers, study and recreation
consume the remaining hours until
time for retiring at 11 p.m. It is a busy
schedule which is interspersed, on va-
rious occasions, by a monthly retreat,
Vol. 9 • No. 2	3
(Above) Rev. Daniel F. Curtin,
C.S.C., Superior of Old Col-
lege, has frequent conferences
with student-seminarians.
(Above right) Student-semina-
rians study and sleep in Old
College—eat in the University
dining halls.
1
J—




Holy Hour, Way of the Cross and con-
ferences with the superior.
Candidates usually spend one
scholastic year as a student-seminarian
in Old College before they start
twelve months of intensive spiritual
training at Sacred Heart Novitiate in
Jordan, Minn. Afterwards they will
return to Notre Dame to complete their
university and philosophical studies in
the Major seminary. The final stage
before ordination is a four-year course
in Sacred Theology at Holy Cross Col-
lege in Washington, D. C.
The religious life of a student-semi-
narian becomes more intensified as he
progresses toward ordination. At the
time he becomes a priest, a Holy Cross
Father takes three vows: poverty, chas-
tity and obedience. The fourth vow
of Foreign Missions is required only of
those who voluntarily wish to serve in
Pakistan, Chile or any of the countries
where the Congregation of Holy Cross
has churches or schools.
Seminarians in Old College partici-
pate in many of the University’s activi-
ties and organizations which are avail-
able for the entire student body. They
use the sports facilities of the Rockne
Memorial and take part in inter-hall
athletics. Some join the Liturgy Club
and others are members of Catholic
Action.
A basic academic requirement for
candidates entering Old College is that
they be high school graduates. Often
the seminarian there is a transplanted
junior or senior from the Notre Dame
student body who “feels” the call of
a vocation.
There is no “ceiling” or age limit
for those desiring to enter Old College
Seminary. And their backgrounds are
diversified and interesting which would
be expected in any heterogeneous
group whether studying for Holy Or-
ders or merely seeking a college
education. One of the candidates, who
received a degree in music from Notre
Dame in 1931, is a former executive
with the Radio Corporation of Amer-
ica. Another hails from South Amer-
ica and is taking a masters in archi-
tecture. An ex-high school teacher and
veteran of World War II is included
among the group. These future priests
of Holy Cross who spend their initial
Notre Dame in 1842.

sJSs-ife
Left There are two recrea-
tion rooms available for use at
certain prescribed hours.
(Below) Candidates for the
priesthood attend Daily Mass
in the Log Chapel—a replica
of the first building erected at

year of training here are mindful of the
legends and traditions which cloak
Notre Dame’s oldest building. When
Father Sorin used it for an “institution
of higher learning” students paid the
magnificent sum of $18 per quarter
for tuition, boards laundry and mend-
ing. A few years later Old College was
known as a bakery. In 1881 it was
converted to a residence for lay brothers
in charge of the University farm.
Teaching Brothers and the Mission
Band priests were both quartered there
at different times.
These student-seminarians in the
space of a few short years will be Holy
Cross priests and Old College, the
“cradle” of Notre Dame and training
center for “Men of God,” will again
bask in reflected glory on the day of
their ordination.
For additional information about the
priests or Brothers of Holy Cross, the
reader is invited to address:
THE DIRECTOR OF VOCATIONS
HOLY CROSS SEMINARY
NOTRE DAME, INDIANA



Colleges and universities are no
longer academic cloisters scattered
throughout the American scene. The
Halls of Ivy are no longer the echo-
walls from which the principal emerg-
ing noises are cheers for teams. The
campus fails to reflect the passionate
views of eccentric men with new ideas
untried in the competitive atmosphere
of reality. College education was once
a detached, unusual luxury item that
primarily bettered the economic status
of its beneficiaries. Now, higher educa-
tion is recognized as a historical and
necessary contributor to the mainte-
nance and advancement of our free
society.
Today, the college and university is
recognized as vital. Its vitality moves
from the campus into the home and
the store and the factory. It permeates
the political and social life of every
community.
The college trained graduate is no
longer free for the optional pursuit of
individual gain. He is identified as a
leader, created in substantial part by
society through tax-supported or phil-
anthropic educational systems. He
owes to society a leadership de-
rived from his advantages.
Men and minds nurtured in
the unique democracy of
American higher education
have produced the know-how
of our science and industry, the
persuasiveness of our market-
ing, the goals of our rising
standards of living, the back-
bone of our moral and polit-
ical resistance to subversion.
Much of our progress, anal-
ysis now agrees, has come from
the unique dual system of
public and private higher edu-
cation. In the state-supported
colleges and universities, the
broad pattern of educational opportu-
nity for the many has been made to
live. In the private institutions the
freedom to pursue the research, the ex-
periments, the new trends, whether in
education or in its various ramifica-
tions, has found an acceleration not
possible under the complex controls of
tax support. Side by side, we have
achieved both rapid and widespread
educational growth, reflected in our
entire national life.
The University of Notre Dame, like
all private institutions, .especially the
church-related schools, has found the
rapidly expanding opportunities of the
years since World War II accompanied
by a rapidly expanding enrollment and
an even more rapidly expanding crisis
in its rising costs.
Almost unique among the universi-
ties of the United States, our enroll-
ment of 4,800 undergraduate students
— limited now at that figure to avoid
sacrifices in the quality of its educa-
tion — comes from some 1,800 pre-
paratory schools in all of the 48 States
and 22 foreign countries.
Our alumni, relatively young as a
group, with one-half of the 22,000 lay
graduates having; been at the Univer-
sity since 1945, are found in areas of
local leadership in all of the major
cities of this great nation.
As an educator, I am pleased to re-
port that Notre Dame alumni are help-
ing; to meet the challenges of a most
critical era on all of the levels of Amer-
ican education.
Our writers are contributing a sound
moral fiber of principle to their pro-
fessional competence in literature,
journalism, radio and television. Our
business men are shaping the course of
many businesses on the fundamentals
of the rights and dignity of those who
own and those who manage as well as
those who work.
Our scientists are advancing the
frontiers of vital research in both the
private areas of progress and in the
critical areas of national defense. Our
family men are setting examples of
strength in the basic unit of our free
society when many factors tend to
break traditional family ties.
Civic and philanthropic activities are
increasingly finding a responsible lead-
ership among these men who have been
imbued with the definitions that stem
from the fundamentals that our Found-
ing Fathers embodied in the early doc-
uments of our political heritage.
These accomplishments by our alum-
ni, throughout the nation and around
the world, fill us with the greatest sat-
isfaction that comes to those in educa-
tion: that the seed has taken root and
is growing and bringing forth good
O	O	o o	o
fruit.
Devotedly yours in Notre Dame,
Former Notre Dame Quarterback Is Taking
Advanced Architectural Design in Milan, Italy
Joseph Richard Gasparella was not
an average student at the University
of Notre Dame. Nor could he be clas-
sified as a “typical undergraduate”
while attending classes in the College
of Engineering. Joe not only earned a
degree in architecture, he also used his
O	J
6'4"-225 pounds of Italian heritage to
hold down a quarterback post on Notre
Dame’s Fighting Irish football team.
When Fulbright Scholarships were
awarded during the current school
year, it was not surprising, to those
who knew him best, that Joe Gasparel-
la was chosen to take advanced archi-
tectural studies in Milan, Italy. It
disproves again, as it has so often in the
past, that football players are illiterate
brutes who have difficulty counting
past 18.
Gasparella, prior to leaving for
Milan, had already achieved several
distinctions which identify him as an
individual with unusual characteristics.
His athletic career extended beyond
the Notre Dame campus and he played
professional football for both the Pitts-
burgh Steelers and Chicago Cardinals.
As a practicing architect, some of his
designs have included St. Peter’s
Church in Pittsburgh, various elemen-
tary and high schools and a large
department store in McKeesport, Pa.
Following an honorable discharge
after a two-year stint in Uncle Sam’s
Army, Gasparella could have qualified
as the “newest civilian” with the “least-
est” free time. He decided on a pay-for-
play job, working for the Steelers
during the summer and fall and study-
ing at Notre Dame in the winter and
spring. It was a grueling schedule even
for a hefty gridder such as Gasparella.
The Steelers used him most fre-
quently as a blocking back, from 1948
until he was traded to the Cardinals in
1950. His tenure with the Cardinals
included service in his old familiar
post at quarterback. During the off-
seasons from professional football, Gas-
parella finished his junior and senior
years of college. Notre Dame awarded
him a bachelors degree in Architecture
at the summer commencement in 1950.
A Fulbright Scholar isn’t selected by
drawing names out of someone’s spare
hat. After a review of the applicant’s
academic record, at least five examples |
of his work must be submitted. Also, a 9
theme, written on “why” a scholarship 1
is desired, has to be evaluated by the
proper authorities. The application is
then screened by various elective
boards, the first being the International
Institute of Education in New York.
Finally, if he is among the more
fortunate, the Department of State no-
tifies the recipient that he has been
given a United Slates educational ex-
change grant — all because of a far-
sighted senator from Arkansas named
Fulbright.	i
Lecture courses in City Planning
and Architectural Theory are Gaspa-
rella’s classroom projects at the mo-
ment in the Polytechnical University.
However, his most important training
is actual practice in designing while
working in Milan’s leading architec-
tural studios. In this way, it is possible
to exchange ideas in close collaboration
between student and instructor.
Next September he will return to the
States and is hopeful of teaching as
well as following his chosen profession
of registered architect.
There is a promising career shaping
up for this Fulbright Scholar who can
prove, personally, that it takes more
than brawn to be a top-notch football-
er and a successful architect.
Vol, 9 • No. 2	7
(Above photo)
Rev. Philip S.
Moore, C.S.C.,
Vice-President of
Academic Affairs
(right), and two
of his top aides,
Rev. Paul
Beichner, C.S.C.,
Asst. Vice-Presi-
dent and Dean
. . . Administers Curriculum for 5,600 Students,
Under Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.C., Vice-President
The casual visitor to Notre Dame’s campus
will doubtless be aware of a large brick “saucer”
which resounds with the echoes of cheering thou-
sands each football season. He will likewise be
impressed with the spacious well-manicured cam-
pus which is dotted by new, and some not so new,
buildings. The Golden Dome, surmounted by
Our Lady’s statue, is certain to be one of his
“take-home” memories.
He may be curious about the inner workings
—the “main springs”—of this great university
but, from a brief stopover, it is unlikely that he
will meet the men who provide the direction and
ingenuity so necessary in any major institution of
higher learning. The Rev. Philip S. Moore, C.S.G.,
is not a man who the casual visitor would find
taking a leisurely stroll on Notre Dame’s wide,
criss-crossed concrete paths. There is a reason.
As Vice President in Charge of Academic Affairs
he has a monumental task which involves 5,600
students and 450 members of the faculty. It is
a job that doesn’t permit much time for strolling.
In fact, there are many nights when Father Moore
and his assistants “bum” the well-known “mid-
night oil” getting ready for the opening of school,
preparing for a commencement weekend or merely
trying to process the infinitesimal details which
consistently harass top-level educators.
In 1949 a re-organization of administrative
8 Notre Dame
functions, under vice-presidential authority, was
effected by the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, G.S.C.,
then president of the University and now Director
of the Notre Dame Foundation. At the present
time four Holy Cross priests assist the president,
Rev. Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C., in the divi-
sion of administrative duties as follows: Rev. Ed-
mund P. Joyce, C.S.C., executive vice-president;
Rev. Jerome J. Wilson, C.S.C., vice-president in
charge of business affairs; Rev. James E. Norton,
C.S.C., vice-president in charge of student affairs;
and Father Moore, vice-president in charge of
academic affairs.
Experience, background and an acumen for
getting things done properly have been points of
advantage in Father Moore’s favor. He was Dean
of the Graduate School for eight years; Catholic
University of America awarded a masters and a
doctorate to him after he graduated from Notre
Dame in 1924 with a bachelor of arts degree.
Advanced studies were taken in Paris where he
received a degree of archivist-paleographer. He is
not “boss man” of the professorial staff in theory
only—he understands faculty problems and or-
ganization from having been a teacher of mediae-
val philosophy and history at the University.
During World War II when atomic projects
and other high priority scientific studies were
being conducted on the Notre Dame campus,
of the Graduate
School (left),
and Rev. Robert
J. Lochner,
C.S.C., Assistant
to the Vice-
President.

Units are also a
part of
of the Committee
the final decisions
on Ad-
on any
sity and is a member
missions which makes
“border-line” cases.
Academic Service
Father Moore
(left) holds con-
ference with the
deans. Left to
right: James W.
Culliton, College
of Commerce;
Rev. Charles E.
Sheedy, C.S.C.,
College of Arts
and Letters; Karl
E. Schoenherr,
College of Engi-
neering; Joseph
O’Meara, School
of Law; and
Lawrence H.
Baldinger, College
of Science.
Father Moore served as Co-ordinator of Research.
He is an author and a member of various national
historical and educational societies. A native
Hoosier, Notre Dame’s academic “veep” was bom
in Wabash, Indiana—a city which was popular-
ized in one of the all-time musical hits some years
ago.
From the time a prospective freshman’s appli-
cation form is submitted until the day he receives
a degree, this four year period in his life will
largely evolve around the policies and programs
of Father Moore’s staff.
It is not a one-man department. Two of
Father Moore’s executive assistants who share a
major portion of the “work load” are Rev. Paul
E. Beichner, C.S.C., Dean of the Graduate School
and Assistant Vice President for Academic Affairs,
and Rev. Robert J. Lochner, C.S.C., Assistant to
the Vice President.
In directing Graduate School activities, Father
Beichner assigns fellowships and grants to students
who are eligible for this financial aid. The Sum-
mer Session, primarily attended by religious and
graduate students, is also under his direction.
Father Lochner supervises the preparing and
recording of all student academic averages, has
charge of the fall and spring registration pro-
cedures and assists Father Moore with the general
academic program. Deans of the four under-
graduate colleges and the School of Law are vitally
involved in the academic progress of this Univer-
sity. Rev. Charles E. Sheedy, C.S.C., S.T.D., is
Dean of the Arts and Letters College; Lawrence
H. Baldinger, Ph.D., is Dean of the College of
Science; Karl E. Schoenherr, D.Eng., heads the
College of Engineering; James W. Culliton,
D.C.S., has been recently appointed to the dean-
ship of the College of Foreign and Domestic Com-
merce; and Joseph O’Meara, Jr., LL.B., is Dean
of Notre Dame’s School of Law.
The academic directors who report to Lather
Moore include the Rev. Louis J. Thornton, C.S.C.,
Director of Admissions; Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy,
C.S.C., Archives Director; Victor A. Schaefer, Di-
rector of the University Library; and Paul R.
Byrne, Director of Art Galleries in the O’Shaugh-
nessy Hall of Liberal and Fine Arts.
Father Thornton has a particularly difficult task
and one which is concerned with every Notre
Dame undergraduate student. He administers all
procedures of application for entry to the Univer-
Father Moore’s responsibility as Vice President.
These consist of the following: Office of Military
Information and Guidance, under the direction
of Rev. Robert Woodward, G.'S.C.; Developmental
Reading Program, supervised by Richard D. Wil-
lemin; the Testing and Guidance Office, directed
by Edward R. Quinn; the Audio-Visual Depart-
ment, maintained by Everett Warren; and the
Office of Student Advisor, which is in charge of
William Miller Burke.
After a capsule review of Father Moore’s
duties, obligations and responsibilities it is readily
understandable why the Vice President of Aca-
demic Affairs has an affinity for “burning mid-
night oil.”
The academic program at Notre Dame, which
had its beginning 114 years ago, has grown to a
well-integrated system of teaching and guiding
young men in their future careers. A less efficient
administration would be unable to cope with the
problems and demands made upon it by present-
day educational standards.
Vol, 9 • No, 2
9
TEACHING RESEARCH
EXPLORATION
GEOLOGY
Engineering
Hydrology
water supply
flood control
Geology
Mining Geology
structural geology
crystallogr
minerals
petrogr
Dam
Oceanography
IS ALL ABOUT
t e
22,570’
s
°0
Geophysics
seismology
Z3E^3
SO
Notre Dame Is Training Geologists
For Industry and Government
By Raymond C. Gutsehiek, Ph.D.
The author is professor of Geology
at Notre Dame and is completing his
ninth year on the University’s faculty.
He received a Ph.D., in 1942, from
the University of Illinois. In addition
to Notre Dame, Dr. Gutschick has also
taught at Illinois and at Indiana Uni-
versity. He has done exploration and
development work in oil and gas for
the Magnolia Petroleum Co. and Gulf
Oil Corp., both of Oklahoma City,
Okla.
Geology is everywhere, including the
Notre Dame campus, but what is it
about and what is being done at the
University to train young men in
this field?
Who has not wondered about rocks
along the beach or in the bed of a
mountain stream or marveled at Na-
ture’s ecstatic beauty amidst rocky
snow-capped mountains or flowered
cacti deserts or awesome stream-cut
canyons or undulating rock-strewn hills
and puzzled as to the meaning of such
scenery? The world is alive but the
rocks, mountains, canyons, and deserts
are mute. What a frustration to be
able to look, but not see; and ponder,
yet not grasp. It is the geologist’s train-
ing which helps him to develop a four-
dimensional perspective sharpening up
the imagination to think in terms of
depth adding the profound concept of
everlasting time. Geology is a fascinat-
ing, analytical science. It deals with
the inorganic world of minerals and
rocks and their organic complex which
makes up the earth’s crust. The ge-
ologist is concerned with the origin,
arrangement, chronology, and uses of
these materials and information to
mankind. The earth is the geologist’s
laboratory; Mother Nature his silent
teacher. Her secrets are often simple
but subtle and her treasures vast await-
ing discovery.
Geology as a major in science at
Notre Dame is very young, having been
officially recognized as an undergradu-
ate discipline in 1948. Since 1949, 41
geology majors have graduated and at
present over 40 students are enrolled
as majors in geology. Of the numbers
of graduates, 18 already have started
their careers in industry. In addition
25 students have had or are taking
graduate work elsewhere since the De-
partment is not in the Graduate
School. Without exception they have
pursued these studies on graduate as-
sistantships, scholarships, or fellow-
ships. One has his Ph.D. degree, 20
have their M.S. degrees, 5 are beyond
their M.S. and continuing for their
10 Notre Dame

DEVELOPMENT EVALUATION ADMINISTRATION
Geochemistry Petroleum Geology General Geology
Conservation
Ph.D. degrees, 5 are studying for their
M.S. degrees, 12 are in the services,
and only 2 are not associated with a
career in geology. The most recent
geology graduate at N.D. (January,
1956) has received a National Science
Foundation Fellowship and another
graduate serving duty in the Navy'on
a hydrographic vessel is looking for-
ward to a Fulbright award for gradu-
ate studies in Austria and the Alps.
This is a very creditable record for
the Geology Department and reflects
the training which these men have re-
ceived at Notre Dame.
The curriculum is rigorous yet lib-
eral allowing for 24 or more hours of
electives. It requires one summer of
practical geological field training at
one of the many fine geological sta-
tions throughout the country. One of
the students has been a geological
trainee during the summer for the
Lion Oil Company in fulfillment of
this requirement. This cooperation is
commendable and duly appreciated.
The curriculum has been expanded to
include Engineering Geology and there
is provision for a major in geology in
the Liberal Arts College. Geology also
serves the Colleges of Commerce, En-
gineering, Liberal Arts, and Science.
One can get a good idea of the im-
portance of geology to industry from a
study of the distribution of Notre
Dame graduates who are now engaged
in the profession. Private industry
uses the greatest number of geologists.
The oil companies lead in utilizing men
trained in this science. Graduates from
here are engaged in exploration and
research as geologists for the Califor-
nia, Humble, Hunt, Richfield, and
Shell Oil Companies; and geophysi-
cists for Carter and Continental Oil
Companies. The first graduate, a con-
sulting petroleum geologist in the Illi-
nois Basin, has expressed his loyalty
and recognition of a departmental de-
ficiency by furnishing a station wagon
for geological field work for which the
Department is grateful. Another
graduate serves as a consulting engi-
neering geologist and partner in Geol-
ogic Associates, Nashville, Tennessee.
Mining is represented by two of the
men, one an independent operator of
his mining leases in northeastern Okla-
homa; the other is associated with
Newmont Exploration Company in
Colorado, having recently returned
from a geological investigation for-
Newmont in Turkey. A few have
worked or are working for the Federal
Government in the U. S. Geological
Survey, the Atomic Energy Commis-
sion, and the Corps of Engineers. The
state surveys are represented by one
man with the Ohio Geological Survey
and another as engineering geologist
for the Indiana Department of Con-
servation Ground Water Division.
Father Michael Murphy, C.S.C., who
received his M.S. degree in geology
from the University of California, is
teaching geology at Notre Dame.
The future of geology is bright for
it is a growing science. Oil, gas, and
minerals vital to our national economy
are critical commodities and require
greater skill to find. The fields of pe-
troleum and mining geology are
healthy and will continue to expand.
Greater demands for domestic water
supplies will require intensive search"
and has given greater stimulus to this
phase of geology. Engineering geology
is in its infancy and shows great prom-
ise for the future. Isotope geology in-
cluding uranium-thorium exploration
and development is getting an inten-
sive concentration of geological appli-
cation. Marine geology has opened
many avenues of investigation and re-
search. Other sciences are utilized to
develop the fields of Geophysics, Geo-
chemistry, and Paleontology (Paleo-
biology) with ever expanding vistas for
the future. If ever there is an inte-
gration of scientific disciplines, geology
is such science. Teaching will continue
to seek good men to propagate the
science; however, it must compete
with industry.
The Department hopes to build into
one of the most outstanding geology
undergraduate training centers in this
country. The staff will continue to re-
gard geology graduates and their rec-
ords as an index of the progress which
is being made in this direction.
Vol. 9 • No. 2 II
Politics Institute
By Gilbert Cipriano
The author is a student in Notre
Dame’s Graduate School and is a na-
tive of Providence, R. I.
Four young American attorneys who
are rapidly expanding their political
aspirations in Michigan, Ohio, Illinois
and Arizona brought the role played by
young lawyers in politics to Notre
Dame lawyers at a “Politics Institute”
held at the University in February.
Initiated by Dean Joseph O’Meara
and sponsored by the Law School, the
purpose of the “Institute” was to in-
form and interest Notre Dame lawyers
in the opportunities awaiting them in
politics, and the role they can play in
the field as practicing attorneys.
Two Democrats, Lt.-Govemor Philip
A. Hart, of Michigan, and Richard I.
Nelson, former president of the Young
Democratic Clubs of America and now
assistant manager of industrial rela-
tions at Inland Steel Co., Chicago,
formed one-half of the panel of four
speakers.
Representing the Republican side of
the lawyer-politician theme were C.
William O’Neill, Attorney General of
Ohio, and Ronald Webster, Jr., a Phoe-
Institute participants are from left to right: Hon. Philip A. Hart, Lt. Gov. of Michigan;
Hon. C. William O’Neill, Atty. Gen. of Ohio; Dean Joseph O’Meara;
Ronald Webster, Jr.; and Richard J. Nelson.
nix attorney active in Arizona politics.
Morning and afternoon sessions were
held sit the Law Auditorium with each
speaker delivering a short talk followed
by questions and discussion from the
floor by an eager body of student
lawyers.
Each speaker elaborated on a sepa-
rate phase of the student lawyer’s
future opportunities for public service
through politics. Mr. Hart, who, while
serving as U.S. Attorney in 1952 was
awarded the citation as “Outstanding
Federal Administrator” of that year for
his indictment of six communist leaders
in Michigan, emphasized the necessity
for politicians to have a higher regard
in “practicing what they preach.” He
maintained that political standards and
practices in the U.S. must be kept high
if Americans are to prove their leader-
ship in the 20th century contest with
the Soviets for the minds of men.
Hart also stressed the fact that the
optimum chance of attracting the best
of our talented young men and women
in politics lies in the “general recogni-
tion that politics is a day-to-day man-
agement chore of democracy.”
The Democrats second speaker, Mr.
Nelson, one-time Administrative As-
sistant on legislative matters and liaison
to former Governor Adlai Stevenson of
Illinois, advised the young lawyers to
look toward smaller and newer commu-
nities for their start. He warned the
students of the difficulties that face the
young lawyer who tries to break into
politics in the larger cities and older
communities. It is here that “entrench-
ing ward or district leaders tend to view
with suspicion bright young men who
do not have the desired concern for
regularity or conformity.”
The need for driving the political
“hacks” aside and making room for
able, honest and industrious young
lawyers in public life was viewed by the
Republican’s Mr. O’Neill, the young-
est Attorney-General in Ohio’s history.
He has been elected to that post three
times.
Mr. O’Neill claimed that “one year
in politics may give a young lawyer
more valuable experience than five
years in private practice.” He also
cautioned Notre Dame lawyers against
any expectancy of high salaries, pen-
sions or security in public office, but
added that there is “no field of greater
opportunity to help people.”
O’Neill’s Republican colleague, Ron-
ald Webster, Jr., developed the premise
that the United States government is
one of law and not of men, and in this
sense “we must have men of law in
government.”
Emphasizing the value of the poli-
tician as the “trustee of the legal frame-
work” of our free society, his talk
stressed the idea that the public wel-
fare of the nation is in need of able
lawyers who take an active role in gov-
ernment as its lawmakers and admin-
istrators.
The “Politics Institute” was the first
to be held at Notre Dame, and, accord-
ing to Lt.-Govemor Hart, this is the
first law school in his recollection, “to
encourage law students seriously to con-
sider politics and participation in pub-
lic business as part of their plan for
the years ahead.”
It is the intention of Dean O’Meara
to hold a similar “Politics Institute”
every three years.
12
Notre Dame

25th ANNIVERSARY OF BENGAL BOUTS



nd

Jim Crowley, Four Horsemen halfback
and currently Pennsylvania’s Boxing Com-
missioner, receives award from Coach
Napolitano.
“In this comer, weighing . . . and
wearing gold trunks . . .” — the an-
nouncer completes his introduction of
the two boxers, a bell clangs and
leather starts flying in half a dozen
directions. It is evident that the crowd
loves it or else there wouldn’t be a
packed house.
Although Notre Dame doesn’t spon-
sor an intercollegiate boxing team, the
Bengal Bouts, in some respects, are
more attractive than a regularly sched-
uled season of ‘thumping and thud-
ding.’ For many years these fights
have been conducted for the benefit of
the Holy Cross Foreign Missionaries
laboring in the jungles of Bengal,
India. The “gates” have never been
comparable to a Rocky Marciano sell-
out but they have been substantial—
net profits of anywhere from $3,000 to
$7,000 are turned over to charity each
year.
Knute Rockne had an obsession for
fair play. He drilled his teams in it.
Rock’s code of sportsmanship “rubbed
off” on many of his students including
Dominick J. Napolitano, who now can
prefix his name with the title of Asso-
ciate Professor of Physical Education.
As coach of the Bengal Bouts, Nappy
is to boxing at Notre Dame what
Rockne was to football.
Friendship ceases when student
fighters lambast one another during
the three-round matches. But in 25
years of boxing at the University, there
has never been a “dirty fight.”
The Bouts, held during the month
of March this year, marked Napoli-
tano’s silver anniversary as boxing di-
rector. He starts conditioning student-
fighters weeks in advance of the show.
He imparts various techniques of box-
ing to all participants. And, above all,
he stresses sportsmanship to every in-
dividual in the group.
Rockne liked boxing because of the
physical contact involved. As Athletic
Director he organized an intercolle-
giate team at Notre Dame in 1923 but
it was abandoned three years later be-
cause no one was available to assume
the coaching duties.
A highlight feature of the finals is
o o
Boxers begin workouts weeks in advance of the Bengal Bouts.
TW
. 1
.1
1
the recognition award given to the
person who “has contributed the most
to boxing during the year.” Many
familiar names have been recipients
including: Jim Crowley, the Four
Horsemen halfback, currently Boxing
Commissioner of Pennsylvania and
winner of the 1956 plaque; Tony
Zale, former middleweight champion
of the world; Budd Schulberg, promi-
nent writer and boxing authority;
Bishop Bernard J. Sheil, founder of
the Catholic Youth Program; and the
present heavyweight champ, Rocky
Marciano.
One of the Bengal Bout’s most illus-
trious “alumni” is a young fellow
named Terry Brennan, who directs the
destinies of Notre Dame’s Fighting
Irish football team. Several student-
fighters later entered the seminary and
today are ordained priests.
The local council of the Knights of
Columbus currently promotes the
Bouts and handles all of the miscel-
laneous details so necessary for a suc-
cessful boxing show. In earlier Bouts,
the Notre Dame Scholastic staff pro-
(continued on page 17)







J. Guilfoile
By Thomas
all
began in 1846—yes, that’s
1846! But any resemblance be-
r
is a Journal-
Notre Dame
The author
ism major at
It
rigfht,
O j
and hails from Fond du
Lac, Wis. He is on the
Dean’s List and also is a
member of the varsity ten-
nis team.
saw* .
tween the Notre Dame Band of that
year and the current organization is
strictly imaginary. Father Sorin and
the seven Brothers had founded Notre
Dame du Lac just four years before.
Indiana was still a wilderness—full of
Indians, prairie dogs, grizzlies and a
few trombone men. It didn’t take long
for the musicians to organize and it
may have been the forerunner to
James Petrillo’s present-day A. F. of M.
Literally millions of television fans
and sideline spectators have thrilled to
the stirring strains of the Victory
March when played by the Notre
Dame Band or watched the Band’s col-
orful half-time shows staged each foot-
ball season.
But it’s not as easy as it looks and
it takes work of all kinds—hard work,
fast work, long work and steady work.
The Notre Dame Marching Band is
composed of 120 members, including
the drum major, a baton twirler and
seven bagpipers (sans pipes) who lead
the band on to the field. Robert F.
O’Brien, a young, energetic and imagi-
native director, is the “whip” behind
the group who gets more things done
sotto voce than most high-strung ex-
ecutives accomplish with a king-size
case of “roving ulcers.”
The Notre Dame Band is unusual in
that it is one of the few college units
in the country that memorizes its
music. The band learns an average
of fourteen songs for each game. These
include a “company front” piece
played as it takes the field, five Notre
Dame songs, visiting school marches,
four pieces played in formation and
two fanfares.
During a typical fall week the band
studies music on Monday, practices
marching formations on Tuesday,
marches with music on Wednesday, has
dress rehearsals on Thursday and Fri-
day and stages a final drill on Saturday
morning just prior to kickoff time. This
schedule calls for approximately 13
hours a week of the bandsmen’s time.
It does not make any allowances for
bad weather and sometimes practice
is held outside in the midst of a snow
blizzard or one of Indiana’s well known
rainy afternoons.
Director O’Brien begins planning for
next season’s pageants following the
final home game. He searches for a
theme from which to build each show.
The bandsmen offer suggestions.
Through a combination of teamwork
among director and members, new
ideas are crystallized. Later, forma-
tions (about ten every game) and
special musical arrangements are com-
pleted.
The band doesn’t slacken its activi-
ties when the football season is over
however. It holds auditions for the
concert band and chooses 56 musicians
for this group. They give a number
of concerts on campus and take an
annual tour during Easter vacation.
This year they travelled almost 4,000
«


HoV? Baffle bKHD'.
Director Robert E. O’Brien plans band formations “on paper” weeks in advance of the
football half-time shows performed by Notre Dame’s musicians. The Marching Band is
composed of 120 members and is known from coast to coast for its colorful maneuvers.
miles, by bus, in seven Southwest states.
Another group—known as the var-
sity band—plays for home basketball
games. It offers experience to those
who wish to get into the concert band
or who, because of class conflicts, do
not have an opportunity to belong to
this group.
In the book, Notre Dame—One Hun-
dred Years, by Rev. Arthur Hope,
C.S.G., the story is told of the time
the band was to give a concert from
a barge floating on St. Mary’s Lake on
the Notre Dame campus. The audi-
ence was seated on the sloping bank
and anticipating a rare musical treat.
When the last member of the band
stepped aboard the barge, it promptly
sank. No band members were lost but
legend has it that there is still a com-
plete set of instruments resting on the
bottom of St. Mary’s Lake.
Band directors at Notre Dame don’t
come and go very often. Predecessors
of Director O’Brien include: Joseph
J. Gasasanta, composer of the famous,
“When Irish Backs Go Marching By,”
had a 23-year stint (1919-1942) before
retiring; Lee Hope served from 1942
to 1955 with the exception of a two-
year leave of absence while taking
graduate studies. And, although he
was not a director, we must not forget
that Notre Dame’s famous coach, the
late Knute Rockne, played the flute in
the Notre Dame Band of 1912.
The Notre Dame Band averages 55
appearances during the school yeai' con-
sisting of football games, concerts, bas-
ketball games, parades and special
events. Bandsmen put in 1,250 man
hours each week during football season
getting ready for a 1 O-minute half-time
show. Without scholarship incentives,
it wouldn’t make sense to lots of people
but the obvious conclusion is these men
take great pride in staging colorful for-
mations that rank them as one of the
nation’s top college bands. They are
as much a part of the Saturday after-
noon fall spectacle as the team itself.
Vol. 9 • No. 2
15
The Notre Dame Family
By James E. Armstrong
Few things in our experience are as
interesting or as heart-warming as the
large family, where health, and happi-
ness, and a wholesome inter-depend-
ence face the problems of the family’s
world.
A university once was believed to
concern only those who lived in the
family house—these were the adminis-
tration, the faculty and the students.
Now there is a much broader and
happier inclusion of the family of the
university, which Notre Dame appro-
priately and vigorously enjoys, because
at Notre Dame, from the beginning,
the University has recognized this
broader kinship.
May we take an all too brief look at
the components of our Notre Dame
family?
I.	The Administration. Notre Dame
was founded by the Congregation of
Holy Cross, a French missionary reli-
gious group. Its subsequent direction
has been in the hands of the members
of this Congregation, without whose
contributed services — not to mention
inspiration, dedication, competence
and other virtues — the University
could not have survived or progressed.
II.	The Faculty. Over the years, the
faculty has numbered many of the
members of the Congregation other
than the administrators, who shared
their virtues. But in addition, there
have been through most of the history
of the campus laymen who made sub-
stantial financial sacrifices to share in
the educational mission of the Univer-
sity, because they shared in the spiritual
and intellectual commitments of its
origins.
III.	The Student. The primary objec-
tive of the University is the student.
While he is the beneficiary of its rich
training, and even of a substantial
philanthropic subsidy—generally esti-
mated at 30%—he still pays 70% of
the costs of operation, and by his in-
terest, example and work, gives to its
progress in many other ways.
IV.	The Alumni. In this 20th Cen-
tury, the alumni of almost all schools
have been found in the expanding
family circle. Not just because their
financial support is needed, but be-
cause in their careers and in their trav-
els the values of the campus family life
are most clearly defined and measured.
Notre Dame alumni, long the reflec-
tors of the moral, responsible leader-
ship of their alma mater, have become
a vital factor in its progress with the
growing Annual Alumni Fund, which
in 1955 totalled $525,350. Alumni aid
in enrollment and in public relations
provides further intangibles of incal-
culable value.	,
V.	Parents. The parents of present
students, the parents of former stu-
dents, and the parents of prospective
students, all have an interest in Notre
Dame which makes them a close par-
ticipant in the progress of the Univer-
sity. Their declaration of confidence
when they select Notre Dame to train
their sons is rewarded by the nature
of that training and its consistent ad-
herence to the below-cost traditions of
American higher education. Even
without organized solicitation, the 1955
voluntary financial contributions to
. Notre Dame from parents came from
489 families and totalled $149,686.
VI.	Corporations. The recent rise of
the interest and activity of American
corporate enterprise in American
higher education, particularly private
colleges and universities, is one of the
outstanding current expansions of the
new Notre Dame family. The litera-
ture of business and industry, and of
education, is filled with splendid trib-
utes to the logic of this relationship.
Tangible proof of this growing bond
is the 1955 report of contributions to
Notre Dame from 354 corporations,
totalling $411,326.
VII.	Foundations. The great philan-
thropic foundations, many of them
committed to special and local areas
of interest, are nevertheless recogniz-
ing the family tie with the campus.
Most dramatic of these manifestations
was the 1955 grant of the Ford Foun-
dation. Notre Dame, grateful to many
other foundations for various types of
support, was most gratified to be the
10th ranking recipient of a Ford grant,
totalling $2,630,300.
VIII.	Individual Benefactors. Prob-
ably no part of Notre Dame’s family is
better known than those generous in-
dividuals whose names have become
an integral part of the campus. En-
dowed with unusual material resources,
these benefactors have also been en-
dowed with a sense of the stewardship
of the future entrusted to them. The
names Pam, Hurley, Cushing, Morris,
Fisher, Pangbom, Breen, Phillips,
Reilly, Gillen, LaFortune, O’Shaugh-
nessy, Corbett, Haggar, Murphy,
Strake, Lewis, Carney, or Meehan tell
stories of a family spirit that adminis-
tration, students and alumni know and
have profited from over the years.
IX.	Friends. And there comes to mind
immediately the unsung legion of
friends, those of limited material re-
sources, whose smaller cumulative
gifts have helped to raise Notre Dame
as the old cathedrals were raised from
the sacrifices of the many. In appre-
ciation, and in prayer, as in propor-
tionate sacrifices, they take their place
beside the better known.
X.	Trustees and Council Members.
Since 1920, the University has added
to its family an increasing number of
men who give unselfishly of themselves
and their talents in multiplying the
strength of University administration
by the counsels of rich and varied ex-
perience. Under the guidance of the
Associate Board of Lay Trustees, for
example, the University’s endowment
has increased more than twelve-fold
from its original million dollar fund.
XI.	Neighbors. In the teaching of No-
tre Dame, and in its family, neighbor
has a wonderful connotation. And
neighbors—geographical and spiritual
—have played a major part in the
16
Notre Dame
University’s life, from the days when
they came to Father Sorin’s aid, to the
generous half million dollars from the
St. Joseph Valley which insured com-
pletion of the Nieuwland Science
Building.
XII.	Government. Government is lim-
ited in its family ties with private edu-
cation. But in the several contracts
with the government in Notre Dame’s
laboratories, in the presence of the
R.O.T.C. programs, in the wartime
use of the campus, are the evidences
of the confidence of our country in the
American tradition of our campus.
XIII.	Catholics. Notre Dame has never
made an appeal to the Catholics of our
country. But in the packed stadia in
all parts of it, in the flow of boys from
the parochial and high schools of the
Church in all our States, in the lead-
ership of alumni in the lay life of the
Church, in the vocations from Notre
Dame to secular and other religious
life, in the summer school and the
summer conventions of religious groups
— priests, nuns and brothers — the
prominent place of Notre Dame in the
hearts of American Catholics is evident.
XIV.	Media of Communication. This
may seem an odd family member. But
peculiarly at Notre Dame, the press,
and later radio and television, found
in the University a bond of struggle, a
bond of color, a bond of imagination,
a bond of courage, a bond of friend-
ship that has brought to Notre Dame
a contribution in all these media that
could never be measured by space and
time rates.
These are the sons of Notre Dame,
whose combined efforts have increased
the values of all the men and all the
work and all the buildings that con-
tinue to grow about the Golden Dome
of Notre Dame.
Tour For N.D. Men
Prof. Paul Bartholomew of the
Notre Dame faculty is conducting a
tour of Europe for Notre Dame men
extending 54 days from time of de-
parture until arrival in the U.S. It
begins on July 12, 1956. The group
will sail from New York and visit
England, Holland, Belgium, Ger-
many, Switzerland and Italy. For
complete information and reserva-
tions contact Travel Department,
First Bank and Trust Company,
South Bend, Indiana.
Senator Kennedy.
HeJz Review
PROFILES IN COURAGE—John F.
Kennedy. Harper and Brothers.
$3.50.
Mr. Kennedy is United States Sena-
tor from Massachusetts, a prominent
Catholic layman and recipient of an
honorary doctor of laws degree from
Notre Dame in 1950.
His book is a collection of sketches
about some of the nation’s outstanding
political figures who, during a crisis,
possessed the courage to stake then’
principles against bigotry, influential
motives and unpopular issues with their
party or constituents. Senator Ken-
nedy selected eight leading senators,
of the recent as well as remote past,
for “profile material” including: John
Quincy Adams, Daniel Webster,
Thomas Hart Benton, Sam Houston,
Edmund G. Ross, Lucius Lamar,
George Norris and Robert A. Taft.
In reviewing Senator Kennedy’s
book, the New York Times states:
“One of the reasons that the profession
of politics suffers from such low public
esteem is that it is constantly being
run down by politicians themselves. In
this unfortunate state of affairs it is
refreshing and enlightening to have a
first-rate politician write a thoughtful
and persuasive book about political
integrity.”
“Profiles in Courage” achieves a re-
markable study of those politicians
whose ideals and principles should be a
“political guidebook” for all elected
officials.
It is quite evident from the inter-
esting and forceful manner in which
this presentation is made that John
Kennedy is not only an extremely
capable Senator from the Common-
wealth of Massachusetts but he is also
an exceptionally gifted writer. The
book is on the list of best-sellers and
ranks Senator Kennedy alongside fel-
low-Bostonian and Notre Dame alum-
nus Edwin O’Connor (“The Last
Hurrah”) as two of the country’s more
successful authors.—J. C.
Bengal Bouts
(continued from page 13)
vided the ‘man power’ for organizing
and producing the annual fight card.
The Notre Dame gymnasium, filled
with hundreds of students and other
fans from this area, echoed with a
tremendous round of applause as Dom-
inick Napolitano received a special
gift during this year’s festivities from
his former fighters. It was a genuine
display of appreciation on the part of
his “boys,” as well as boxing enthusi-
asts, for a great job he has done for
more than two decades. Resembling a
miniature Madison Square Garden, the
gym, scene of many indoor sports clas-
sics, has never witnessed a more de-
served tribute than that given to
Coach Napolitano.
Fr. Mendez Receives
Special Assignment
Rev. Alfred F. Mendez, C.S.C., di-
rector of the Notre Dame Placement
Bureau, has received a new assignment
as special assistant
to Rev. Theodore J.
Mehling, C.S.G.,
Provincial of the In-
diana Province. Fa-
ther Mendez will re-
linquish his affilia-
tions with the Place-
ment Bureau as well
as his other Univer-
sity duties including
Director of Student
Aid and Co-ordinator of Summer Ac-
tivities. His new appointment is effec-
tive immediately and will be con-
cerned specifically with “province de-
velopment.”
Father Mendez was a member of the
faculty of Notre Dame from 1948 to
1952 and also served as chaplain to
the University’s married veterans and
their families. A native of Chicago, he
entered the Congregation of Holy
Cross in 1925 and was ordained to the
priesthood in 1935.
Vol. 9 • No. 2
17
Student Foundation Week participants included, from left to right: Rev. John J. Cavanaugh,
G.S.C., Director of the Notre Dame Foundation; Allan Powers, Area Director of the Foun-
dation staff; and Victor Clesi, student chairman of the campaign.
98 Percent Participation in
Student Foundation Campaign
The second annual Student Founda-
tion Week was highly successful with
98% of the undergraduates, living in
campus residence halls, contributing to
the University. The campaign, ex-
tending over one week, was under the
chairmanship of Victor Clesi, a sopho-
more from Dallas, Texas.
Each student, who was* solicited, re-
ceived a small brochure explaining the
purpose of Foundation Week. Contrib-
utors were given a miniature plastic
automobile and a driver’s license. The
campaign was based primarily on 'per-
sonal contact’ and solicitors called at
each student room on the campus.
A direct mail appeal was sent to all
Notre Dame students living off-campus.
It resulted in approximately 300 re-
turns. This was particularly encourag-
ing to the Committee as only two con-
tributions were received by mail in
1955.
The campaign objective was to ac-
quaint the student body with the
work of the Notre Dame Foundation
and to attain as high a percentage of
giving as possible from these young
men who will be alumni within a few
years.
Assisting Clesi on the planning com-
mittee were: Harry Wasoff, Dallas,
Tex., publicity; Gene Salem, Akron,
O., finance; and David Furlow, Dallas,
Tex., Richard Meyer, Rochester, N. Y.,
and David Mann, Wilmette, Ill., who
served as coordinators for the Senior,
Junior and Freshmen halls.
New Members Named to
ND Trustees, Councils
The appointment of Hany C. Ha-
gerty, financial vice-president of the
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., New
York City, as a member of Notre
Dame’s Associate Board of Lay Trus-
tees was announced recently by Rev.
Theodore M. Hesburgh, C.S.C. Mem-
bers of the board invest and administer
the University’s endowment funds and
advise school officials on fiscal matters.
Father Hesburgh also named seven
new members to three of the advisory
councils.
Appointed to the College of Com-
merce advisory council are Charles J.
Curley, president of the First Trust
Company of St. Paul, St. Paul, Minn.;
Alwin F. Franz, president of The Col-
orado Fuel and Iron Corp., New York
City; Otto A. Pfaff, president of Amer-
ican Wheelabrator and Equipment
Corp., Mishawaka, Ind.; and Fred B.
Suite, president of the Local Loan Co.,
Chicago, Ill.
Named to the advisory council of
the Notre Dame Law School are attor-
ney J. W. Mullin, Jr., Hollywood,
Calif., and Joseph I. O’Neill, Jr., Mid-
land, Tex., an independent oil oper-
ator. O’Neill currently is serving as
president of the Notre Dame Alumni
Association.
John J. O’Shaughnessy, Chicago at-
torney, has been appointed to the Ad-
visory Council for Liberal and Fine
Arts at Notre Dame.
ENGINEERS WILL STUDY
NUCLEAR PRINCIPLES
A new sequence of courses in nuclear
engineering will be offered by Notre
Dame’s College of Engineering begin-
ning in September, according to Dean
Karl E. Schoenherr. The courses are
being added to the engineering curricu-
lum, he said, because of “the rapid de-
velopment that has taken place in the
application of nuclear fission to in-
dustrial uses.”
Students enrolling in the nuclear op-
tion courses will work under the direc-
tion of Dr. Marcel Newman, head of
the department of mechanical engi-
neering, Dean Schoenherr said. New-
man taught a course in “Principles of
Nuclear Engineering” at Notre Dame
last Spring. In the current school year
it has been extended to a two-semester
course. Growing student interest and
the increasing demand for nuclear en-
gineers has prompted the University to
inaugurate the new series of courses,
Dean Schoenherr explained.
Dr. Newman has been invited to par-
ticipate in a Nuclear Energy Institute,
sponsored by the American Society for
Engineering Education and the Na-
tional Science Foundation, to be held
at the Argonne National Laboratory,
Lemont, Ill., next summer. He has
been on the Notre Dame faculty
since 1950.
18
Notre Dame


Why Do Our Religions
Fight Each Other?
These extracts are reprinted from LOOK magazine, Feb. 21, 1956,
with permission of the author and the editors.
Father O'Brien is author-in-residence at Notre Dame and a prolific
Catholic writer. He has written and edited 22 books and hundreds of
pamphlets. Father O'Brien is well known for his work as a marriage
counselor. A persuasive speaker, he has often done street-preaching
in various sections of the South. He heads a commission of the
National Conference of Christians and Jews.
By REV. JOHN A. O’BRIEN, Ph.D.
“National unity in the midst of cultural pluralism,” said
former President Herbert Hoover, “has become the ideal
of our American democracy. To preserve that ideal, it is of
supreme importance that tolerance, respect, good will and
friendship prevail among our citizens of various racial
origins, of different religious creeds and diverse political
faiths. When such differences are made the breeding
grounds of suspicion, antagonism, prejudice and hatred,
they disfigure American life, impair the social order and
menace the unity of the national effort in peace and
in war.”
Today, in America, tensions exist between Protestants
and Catholics and between Christians and Jews. There
are even some tensions between different Protestant de-
nominations. While progress toward Mr. Hoover’s ideal
has been made during the last century, we still have a long
way to go. Plere are some questions and answers which
may help us on the road to understanding:
What is the effect of such tensions on the public welfare?
They disturb the peace and harmony of a commumry
and menace the unity of our effort in peace and in war.
They are the outward evidence of internal disease eating
at the vitals of the nation.
Is religious antagonism in this country of recent origin?
No. It is one of the ironies of history that the early
colonial settlers, fleeing from the religious intolerances of
the Old World, so speedily re-established it in the New.
Like so much baggage, they carried with them the sec-
tarian prejudices, hatreds and persecution complexes which
they had accumulated in the strife-ridden life of Europe.
In 1631, Puritan Massachusetts passed an ordinance lim-
iting citizenship to conforming church members. Only
those in “full communion” could be freemen. This meant
that approximately only one in five adult male residents
of the colony had the rights of full citizenship.
When did anti-Semitism first show itself in this country?
It was brought over with the early settlers. Gov. Peter
Stuyvesant of New Amsterdam (later New York) was a
pronounced anti-Semite and wanted to keep the Jews out.
Failing in this, he refused “for pregnant reasons” to issue
a deed to a Jew who had bought land on Manhattan
Island, and he forbade Tews to trade at Fort Orange and
South River. After listening to a bitter attack upon Jews,
the Assembly of New York decided in 1737 that they were
not entitled to vote. Here were the early manifestations
of European anti-Semitism that was destined to crop up
so often in American life.
Were Catholics discriminated against by the early settlers?
Yes. In 1647, in Puritan Massachusetts, an act was
passed, as severe as any in England, decreeing the arrest
and punishment of any Catholic priest who might be found
in the colony. In 1777, John Jay, of Huguenot stock,
who later became Chief Justice of the United States,
succeeded in fastening upon the constitution of his own
state of New York a provision which virtually denied citi-
zenship to foreign-bom Catholics—a provision which
remained in effect until 1821.
Does the Constitution guarantee religious freedom to all?
Yes. The Federal Constitution, adopted in 1787, pro-
vides in Article VI that “no religious test shall ever be
required as a qualification to any office or public trust
under the United States.” In 1791, this guarantee was
strengthened by the First Amendment, which declares,
“Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment
of religion, or prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
What is the chief lesson taught by all the persecutions of
the past and all the religious wars of history?
The tragic futility of seeking to force creedal uniformity
by torture, bloodshed and slaughter. Let that lesson be
written forever in the forefront of the consciousness of the
civilized world, that such means will be forever outlawed.
Is religious prejudice confined to members of one faith?
No. Narrow-minded people are to be found among all
faiths. They constitute a neurotic fringe in every large
group and are unrepresentative of the overwhelming ma-
jority of just and fair members. Improvement in inter-
faith relations can be effected by the efforts of every group
to counteract the work of its fringe elements.
What are the names of a few publications designed to
promote understanding and good will between the various
faiths?
All in the Name of God, by Everett R. Glinchy; Catholic-
Protestant Conflicts in America, by John J. Kane; Protes-
tant, Catholic, Jew, by Will Herberg, and Adventures in
Brotherhood, by James E. Pitt. The National Conference
of Christians and Jews publishes a pamphlet, The Ameri-
can Dream (by the author), designed for use by schools,
churches and organizations of all faiths to show how every-
one can help in a practical way to promote understanding,
friendship and good will.

Cr.	J. Tracey, Jr,,
200 Bradley Avenuet
State College, Pa.
------------------------------------------------ -- ------------------------------------------------------------— ............................................................................................... - — ■ _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________,_________________________________________________________________________________ . _________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ ____________________________________________________________________________,__________________________________
PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS