
Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund
The President of Notre Dame
R.O.T.C.’s . .
Student Guidance
The Natural Law Institute . .
Four New Buildings GOING UP!
,.z
The Mediaeval Institute
Studying the Soviets
The Long-Range Program
Immediate Needs . .
23
NO
VOL
dedicates this issue to Faiher Cavanaugh,
president of the University.
//
■s ■>
The Religious University
George E. Sokolsky . .
The University of Notre Dame
Foundation
James E. Armstrong .
Radiation Sickness Research
Begins in LoBund Institute
1;
X
Notre Dame
_p a »__
!V- & h 0. ua

rotcs
NATURAL LAW
INSTITUTE
MARRIAGE
INSTITUTE

PLACEMENT
BUREAU
LOBUND
LABORATORY
SCIENCE
BUILDING
KEV JOHN J,
CAVANAUGH c.s.c.
NOTRE DAME respectfully
ante


5
6
<8
10
u
it
15
16
11©
21
22
/butiMnclnG, the...
FATHER
CAVANAUGH
ased costs in con-
e disposal system.
T was in th
that Rev. Jo
vated from Vic
Dame. His adminis^K
notable in the histor^
like his predecessors i
would be the first to ins
and devotion of many others—-
ministration, faculty, students, al
a splendid team of which he has bee
that made these achievements possible.
By Canon Law he must retire in
for a
Father Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund has been initi-
ated to bring the University of Notre Dame’s pro-
gram—$25,000,000 within a 10-year period—abreast
of its schedule. The $3,000,000 sought this year
will equal 40 percent of the total needed while
two-fifths of the time will have elapsed since this
announcement was made in 1948 by Father
Cavanaugh.
Not only will the urgently needed $3,000,000 be
a vital part of the ‘time-table’ but it also will con-
stitute an important and progressive forward step
for Notre Dame. Tentatively, the $3,000,000 will
be allocated as follows:
$1,750,000 for heat, power, and water facili-
ties for the present and future development
of the campus.
$750,000 needed to complete the Science
ildings generously
jor gifts.
lyaiiaugh. is not one for personal
modest man. He finds his honors
rewards lie in the success of the

the launching of this Fund—the Father
Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund—is the kind of testi-
monial—perhaps the only kind—that would
him true gratification.
Father Cavanaugh’s accomplishments as
on the opposite page tell better than any
means what he has achieved and why your
bring
listed
other
finan-
cial help is needed. They show how under an
able administration like Father Cavanaugh’s, your
contributions
deepen and
leadership.
To date,
serve to strengthen Notre Dame—to
widen her intellectual and spiritual
since 1948, $7,000,000 has been given
to Notre Dame by alumni, and other friends. These
generous gifts—including the Science Building, E.
M. Morris Inn, I. A. O’Shaughnessy Liberal and
Fine Arts Building, and the Fred J. and Sally
Fisher Memorial Residence. Hall—have intensified
the need for the other projects in the long-range
program—heat, water, sewage disposal and the like.
TESTIMONIAL FUND
HIGHLIGHTS OF FATHER CAVANAUGH’S ADMINISTRATION
College of Commerce Advisory Council formed.
Rockefeller Grant for International Relations.
Fred J. and Sally Fisher Gift of $1,000,000 for resi-
*	dence hall and student loan fund.
I. A. O’Shaughnessy gift of $2,173,533 for Liberal
and Fine Arts Building.
E. M. Morris Inn, $1,000,000.
i	New Science Building.
The University of Notre Dame Foundation or-
‘	ganized.
Damon Runyon Cancer Fund Award of $25,000
to Lobund Institute.
Marriage Institute for students.
Academic television pioneering with 1950 pre-game
campus film shows.
New laboratory building for Lobund and elevation
of Lobund to Institute status.
Organization of Vetville (residence quarters for vet-
eran students and families).
Symposium on Soviet Russia.
General Program of Liberal Education.
Student Guidance and Testing Service.
Full-time Placement Bureau.
The Natural Law Institute.
The Mediaeval Institute.
Establishment of Audio-Visual Center.
Notre Dame Law Alumni Association formed.
World Trade Conference.
Annual Writers’ Conference.
“. . . from humble beginnings . .
Dedication . . .
In dedicating this issue to Father Cavanaugh,
Notre Dame has printed in story form some
of the many ‘highlight’ projects that were es-
tablished and developed during his regime.
If the University of Notre Dame, under the
leadership of its dynamic president, is to main-
tain an academic pace equal with other out-
standing institutions, it must have the continu-
ing interest and support of alumni and friends.
This issue of Notre Dame is not only a testi-
monial to Father Cavanaugh but it is also a
recognition of the major problems confronting
him as president of the University.
..too great University.”
Xnfrr iDamr, 3nbiana
Office of the President
July 6, 1951
My dear Frank:
I have Just learned of the Notre Dame Founda-
tion proposal.
As you probably know, all the work which has
been accomplished during my term as president could not
have been carried out without the special patronage of Our
Lady, the generous cooperation of my fellow priests, nuns,
brothers, and lay members of the faculty and Administration
with whom I have been closely associated during these past
years.
The University is specially indebted, as you
know, to the alumni, the trustees, the advisory councils,
and its growing circle of active friends. The workers of
generations gone by and those who preceded me in this
office made my job an enjoyable one. Their efforts in
building the reputation and purpose of Notre Dame will
always be respectfully remembered.
Upon learning of your proposal, I felt
that I had to express these words of gratitude to the
many people whose generosity and devotion are making
possible a greater Notre Dame. MThe Father Cavanaugh
Testimonial Fund,* therefore, is really a tribute to
them and all they have done.
Gratefully yours,
o-v-
Mr. Frank C. Walker
National Chairman
University of Notre Dame Foundation
1600 Broadway
New York 19, New York
ONE of the major problems in our
times is not the teaching of
subjects but the building of character.
Many of our universities are degree
factories.
Thousands of M.A.’s and Ph.D.’s
are turned out who are specialists in
particular fields. They know how the
ant builds its hill and how molecules
come together into a substance and
they can read charts and graphs and
tables of statistics.
But they have not been “educated”;
that is, they have not related them-
selves to the culture of the human
race, to the main streams of intellec-
tual and spiritual development of
man.
{The Religious University was express-
ly written by Mr. Sokolsky for the
Father Cavanaugh Dedicatory Issue of
NOTRE DAME.—Ed.).
Mr. Sokolsky with Father Cavanaugh and Mr. Thomas F. Byrne (left), former
president of the Notre Dame Alumni Association.
Xke Religious
University
In some respects, therefore, many
of our colleges and universities are.
trade schools, teaching young people
some technique which will help them
to earn a livelihood. In a sense, this
must result in the proletarization of
the “educated,” because a skill in a
technique is the same, in value,
whether it be the technique of
boiler-making or the technique of op-
erating a laboratory.
To “education,” as it is called, must
be added the leaven of culture — the
yeast that causes the spirit to rise.
This cannot be achieved without cul-
tivating in the young an interest in,
a desire for, an appreciation of those
developments of the human mind
which we call philosophy, literature,
history, art, particularly music, and
religion. For it is by this that man is
pulled, by forces beyond his strength
and even knowledge, out of the trough
of materialism.
In the development of the American
university, the religious institution
stands as the foundation. Harvard,
Columbia, Princeton, Yale, and count-
less other of the most important scho-
lastic institutions were founded as ad-
juncts of Christian denominations and
were guided in their early years by
religious inspiration. Many of our
universities, so founded, have become
wholly secular, or having been sec-
ularized, maintain a relationship to
some theological seminaries. The
Catholic universities retain their reli-
ky George E. Sokolsky
Mr. Sokolsky, columnist, author,
lecturer and industrial relations con-
sultant, graduated from the School of
Journalism, Columbia University, in
1917. The University of Notre Dame
bestowed on him the degree of LL.D,
in 1946; the University of Montana,
an LL.D, in 1948; and St. Bonaven-
ture University, a Litt.D., in 1950.
In 1917, he was the editor of the
Russian Daily News in Petrograd. In
1918, he became the assistant editor
of the North China Star, in Tientsin.
From 1920 to 1930, he was associated
gious characteristics. The Jews have,
in recent years, developed a religious
school, the Yeshiva University, into a
school of increasingly important di-
mensions. And its atmosphere is re-
ligious.
The confusion that has arisen over
the doctrine of separation of Church
and state is inherent in the assumption
that learning can exist without moral-
ity or knowledge without God. It is
not so much a separation of Church
from state, as it is a separation of
“education” from religion, experience
from faith, mental development from
spiritual growth.
(Continued on page 20)
with the China Bureau of Public In-
formation, the Shanghai Journal of
Commerce and the Far Eastern Re-
view, in addition to being the Shang-
hai correspondent for the New York
Evening Post, the Philadelphia Public
Ledger, the New York World, the
London Daily Express and the Japan
Advertiser.
Since 1944, his column has been
syndicated by King Features and ap-
pears in over 275 daily newspapers.
He is also a commentator for the
American Broadcasting Company.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, at Notre Dame,
Indiana. Entered as second class
matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office
of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the
Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing
Editor.
Contributors' views do not necessar-
ily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in
this magazine should be addressed
to the Editor.
Vol. 4 No. 3. Fall, 1951
Vol. 4 . No. 3
F
The President
His Holiness Pope Pius XII and Father
(Below) President Truman and President
Cavanaugh.
Cavanaugh.
it........
■
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., president of the
University of Notre Dame, embodies in his life
story the highlights of the great American tradition of
opportunity.
Son of a widowed mother, he left high school to
become self-supporting and a help to his family. After
he arrived at Notre Dame in 1917 one of his jobs was
secretary to the University president. He graduated
from the Notre Dame College of Commerce, in 1923,
and accepted a job with the Studebaker Corporation in
South Bend.
At the end of two and a half years, the young
executive decided to forego what already looked to be
a successful business career and entered the Novitiate
of the Congregation of Holy Cross. Father Cavanaugh
was ordained in 1931, and not long afterwards went to
study at the Gregorian University in Rome, Italy. He
received a Ph.L. degree there in 1933. From July, 1933
until 1940 Father Cavanaugh served first as Assistant
Prefect of Religion and later succeeded Father O’Hara
(now Bishop of Buffalo) as Prefect of Religion.
In 1940 he was made vice-president of the Univer-
sity and Chairman of the Board in Control of Athletics.
Father Cavanaugh visited South America on an edu-
cational study for his Congregation. One of his early
assignments as Vice-President was advisor for the picture
“Knute Rockne All-American” then being filmed in
Hollywood.
During the critical period of World War II he was
instrumental in the successful adaptation of Notre
Dame’s resources to the U. S. Navy training program.
In 1946, Father Cavanaugh was given the inevitable

of Notre Dame
to Ireland
General J.
recognition of his own outstanding leadership, and entrusted with the
postwar presidency of his alma mater.
and former Secretary of the Navy, Mr. Matthews; and,
Lawton Collins, U. S. Army Chief of Staff.
(Top to bottom) Father Cavanaugh with the following notables:
Laetare Medalist and screen actress, Irene Dunne; Admiral Nimitz,
Navy hero of World War II; Price Stabilization Director, Mr. DiSalle,
receiving an honorary degree from Notre Dame; the Ambassador
The five succeeding years have witnessed a diversified development
of Notre Dame—academically and physically. Under Father Cava-
naugh’s leadership, Notre Dame has risen to new heights in intellectual
prestige while a vast building expansion program is now underway on
the campus. Under his guidance, Notre Dame pioneered pre-game
television shows in the 1950 football season.
Father Cavanaugh is a member of the Board of Visitors at the
U. S. Naval Academy as well as the U. S. Air Force University, Max-
well Air Base, Alabama. General Marshall named him to a special
Citizens Committee to study conditions at armed forces training bases.
He is an active member of the Adult Education Committee of the
Ford Foundation.
Father Cavanaugh is one of the most widely traveled men in the
nation. He has visited every continent in the world with the exception
of Africa and Australia. While still a senior at Notre Dame, he and
three other students sailed to the Philippines on a freighter during
Summer vacation. His travels as president of the University have not
only been extensive and arduous but extremely helpful in the Univer-
sity’s development.
The president of Notre Dame is a member of the Board of
Directors of the Great Books Foundation, and was recently appointed
a committee member by the American Council on Education to draft
plans for a new educational television program service.
Father Cavanaugh has served well “God, Country and Notre
Dame”.




ND ROTC students participate in ‘Summer School’ exercises.
Navy passes in review during WW II training program on campus.
Air, Navy, Army and Marines repre-
sented in Notre Dame’s R.O.T.C.’s
THE military program at Notre Dame is unique in
having all four branches of the service represented
— one of the few educational institutions in the nation
which offers training to students for commissions in the
Air Corps, Army. Navy and Marines. In this issue of
Notre Dame emphasis will be placed on the Air and
Navy units.
Father Cavanaugh has been instrumental in arranging
for the continuation of the Naval program, after World
War II, as well as establishing a curricula for the Air
group. Notre Dame offered facilities to the Navy during
World War II, with the result that 25,000 men were in
training here and 12,000 of these received commissions
in the Midshipman’s School.
Colonel Melie J. Coutlce heads the Air Force staff
at Notre Dame and is assisted by four other officers and
five sergeants. Each Summer a number of the men re-
ceive' specialized training at various air bases. The Uni-
versity of Notre Dame Air Force ROTC was organized
soon after World War II. During the school-year of
1949-50, two cadets in the Air ROTC unit at Notre
Dame received awards from the Chicago Tribune for
outstanding records based on excellence in military
achievements, scholastic attainment and character.
Men in the Air group study such subjects as Geo-
politics, Navigation, Administration, Logistics, Flight Op-
A total of 25,000 men trained at Notre Dame in WW II.
The Naval R. O. T. C. color guard in front of Rockne Memorial.
Air Corps teaches flying to Summer students at bases.
eration, Controllorship. and various other military courses
pertaining to a commission in the Air Force.
The Naval ROTC is under the leadership of Captain
Thomas F. Conlev, who is assisted bv ei^ht other officers
t	and seven enlisted men. By comparison of ‘records’ the
-1	NROTC rifle team has been as successful as some of
. Coach Leahy’s mighty Irish elevens. For the past two
years the Navy marksmen have won national champion-	;
ships in ROTC competition while one of the group has	'.
topped the field in individual shooting.	’
Future ensigns study Ordnance and Gunnery. Naval
History, Navigation. Naval Machinery and other courses.
There are 52 Naval ROTC units in colleges and univer-
sities throughout th-1 nation.	r
Vol. 4 • No. 3	9
Student Guidance
Assisting Young Men to Plan for the Future
OTRE DAME’S Testing and
Guidance Department provides
specialized service to all incoming stu-
dents, at University expense, and is one
of the most important developments
during Father John J. Cavanaugh’s
administration.
Freshmen are privileged to undergo
certain tests for guidance and place-
ment purposes. These test records
are valuable sources of information to
faculty members, the student being
examined, and to prospective employ-
ers. Particularly, executives are most
anxious to see test records of poten-
tial job applicants.
Besides group testing of incoming
first-year men, the department ad-
ministers “exams” for the Law School
Admission Test (quarterly), the Med-
ical School Admission Test (semi-an-
nually), and the Navy Aptitude Tests
once each year, and does individual
counseling and testing throughout the
year.
Individual testing, such as is pic-
tured on these pages, is especially
beneficial to students who have en-
countered scholastic difficulties — pri-
marily because of not knowing their
true aptitudes and abilities. The
counselor can be very helpful in sug-
gesting methods to overcome various
weaknesses.
Even the above-average student —
o
one who has attained excellent scho-
lastic grades — can gain new insight
into his potentialities, his vocational
or career interests. Usually tests are
given in small, private booths under
the supervision of an experienced
counselor. Silence reigns supreme
during the examining period.
As occupational placement is the
natural means to an end of a well-
conceived guidance program, the de-
partment has been very helpful in
cooperating with students seeking
employment.
Tests, which are shown here, may
be the deciding factors in enabling
students to choose, wisely, their
career.
Colored blocks test student’s mechan-
ical ability and muscular coordination.
Vocational interests are a vital part
of the objective test record. Here, two
students start testing programs by re-
cording their interests on a pin-punch
test in Department special booths.
Mr. Quinn, department head, gives
the
Wechsler-Bellevue Intelligence Scale
to a student in obtaining an accurate analysis of general intelligence.
The Natural Law Institute
Another Notre Dame “First” in
Father Cavanaugh’s Administration
THE Natural Law Institute was
another Notre Dame “first.” Be-
ginning in 1947, the Institute was ini-
tially sponsored by Notre Dame’s
alumni club in New York City, while
subsequent Institutes, held annually,
have been sponsored by Mr. Alvin A.
Gould of Cincinnati, O. Some of the
nation’s best legal minds assemble on
the Notre Dame campus for a study
of the Natural Law — the fundamen-
tal basis of human rights, the Law of
God recognized by reason.
Participants in the four Institutes
have included Brigadier General Car-
los P. Romulo, at that time president
of the General Assembly of the
United Nations; George E. Sokolsky,
nationally known columnist and a
widely-respected expert on current af-
fairs; the Honorable Thomas J. Bro-
gan, former Chief Justice of the Su-
preme Court of New Jersey; Dr.
Felix Morley, Pulitzer prize winner
and former editor of the Washington
Post; the Honorable Richard O’Sulli-
van, of London, England, former
King’s Counsel of Great Britain; Dr.
Edward S. Corwin, noted authority
on the Constitution and the Supreme
Court; and Dr. Stephen Kuttner, in-
ternationally known for his research
in mediaeval canonical law at the
Vatican.
Fur more than twenty-two hundred
years, the world’s greatest thinkers
have referred to the Natural Law.
They may have differed in their ways
of expressing it, but they did agree
on the essential points. The Insti-
tute seeks to study the purpose and
nature of Law itself.
Since establishing the Natural Law
Institute, in 1947, the College of Law
at the University of Notre Dame has
become the leading center
study of the Natural Law
The Institute has served as
for a similar institute to be
ated in Cologne, Germany.
This year Mr. Gould, sponsor of
the annual Natural Law Institutes for
the past three years, donated a new
Library to the University’s College of
Law.
The Natural Law Library, to be
known as the Alvin A. Gould Collec-
tion, is believed to be the only one of
its kind in the world. The Gould
Collection will consist of a complete
and representative group of books and
materials on the Natural Law and
will be accessible to scholars and stu-
dents of the Natural Law. These
books currently are being collected
from all parts of the world.
Officiating at the library dedication
ceremonies were the Rev. John J.
Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President of
Notre Dame, Dean Clarence W. Man-
ion of the Notre Dame College of
Law, and Mr. Gould.
J
ft
Notre Dame's College of Law is
the oldest Catholic Law School in
the United States, the outgrowth of
a course in law established in 1869
and later set up as a separate Col-
lege of the University.
With a curriculum and standards
fully approved by the Association of
American Law Schools and by the
Council on Legal Education of the
American Bar Association, the Col-
lege of Law has long held a position
of honor in American legal educa-
tion.
It confers one of two separate
degrees on the student completing
his law education after requirements
have been fulfilled: Bachelor of
Laws, and the degree of Juris Doctor.
Mr. Alvin A. Gould, of Cincinnati, O., (right) at dedication of Natural Law Insti-
tute Library presents key to Dean Clarence W. Manion, of Notre Dame’s College
of Law, and Father Cavanaugh. Mr. Gould has sponsored
Natural
Law Institutes for
past three years
for the
doctrine,
a model
inaugur-

7out new buildings
(J
GOING UP!
FRED J. and SALLY FISHER RESIDENCE HALL
SCIENCE REEDING
E. M. MORRIS INN
L A. O’SHAUGHNESSY LIBERAL AND FINE ARTS BLDG.
FOUR new buildings are in the pi'ocess of construction on the Notre Dame
campus. Included in the group are the following structures: The I. A.
O’Shaughnessy Liberal and Fine Arts building; the Fred J. and Sally Fisher
Student Residence Hall; a Science Hall; and the E. M. Morris Inn. Other
buildings erected thus far in Father Cavanaugh’s administration are three struc-
tures used by LOBUND Institute adjacent to the main campus.
A new Liberal and Fine Arts building was made possible through the generous
benefaction of Mr. I. A. O’Shaughnessy, of St. Paul, Minn., president of the
Globe Oil and Refining Company and also president of the Associate Board of
Lay Trustees at Notre Dame. Mr. O’Shaughnessy’s original gift of $1,500,000
was supplemented by an additional $673,533 to complete the building fund after
an increase in costs had occurred. The departments in the College of Liberal
Arts as well as the University’s Art Galleries will be housed in the O’Shaughnessy
Liberal and Fine Arts Building.
The new Fred J. and Sally Fisher Residence Hall will bring the total of
campus halls for student living to fourteen. Mrs. Fisher, the widow of the late
Lay Trustee Fred J. Fisher, generously gave the University $1,000,000. Of this
amount $750,000 will be used in the construction of the residence hall while the
remaining $250,000 has been established for a Student Loan Fund.
The Science building is being erected from funds provided by alumni and
non-alumni friends. It will cost about $2,500,000 to build and equip. In a public
campaign the citizens of South Bend, Mishawaka, and surrounding community
pledged $500,000 for this structure.
The Morris Inn, donated by the late Mr. E. M. Morris, of South Bend, Ind.,
an alumnus and former president of the Associate Board of Lay Trustees at Notre
Dame, will cost approximately $1,000,000. It will provide living accommodations
for about 200 guests, as well as dining room facilities.
Vol. 4 . No. 3	13
s
if'

This diver takes a shower, submerges into tank containing 1500 gal-
'r •' k - .	o ~	.	'<z
1
LOBUND Institute's latest apparatus for rearing life without germs.


‘
Radiation Sickness Research
Regins In Lobund Institute
A new basic research project, de-
signed to provide a better idea of the
role of “normal” bacteria in the dis-
ease of radiation sickness, soon will be
inaugurated in the Germ-Free Life
Laboratory of LOBUND Institute at
the University of Notre Dame.
The project, which will be con-
ducted by LOBUND scientists in col-
laboration with the Atomic Energy
Commission and the Office of the
Naval Research, was announced re-
cently at a meeting on the University
campus of the Biology Committee of
the Notre Dame Advisory Council for
Science and Engineering.
Members of the Biology Commit-
tee, who inspected facilities for the
new radiation sickness project at
Notre Dame, include E. C. Kleiderer,
of Indianapolis, Ind., Executive Di-
rector of Research and Control at Eli
free animal cage. The X-ray will be
used to provide the radiation (which
also can be produced by atomic ex-
plosion), and both germ-free and nor-
mal animals will be exposed to radia-
tion in order to compare the effect on
both types of animals.
Germ-Free life research, perfected
at LOBUND Institute, is centered at
Notre Dame. Animals reared here,
completely free from demonstrable
microbes, are especially useful in those
biological and medical problems where
uncontrolled germs make exacting re-
search difficult, if not impossible. Cer-
tain aspects of radiation sickness in-
volve uncontrolled microbic invasion
of the blood, and precise experimenta-
tion on this phase of the disease has
not been possible with “normal” con-
taminated animals.
Since it is not possible to remove
germ-free animals from LOBUND’s
apparatus without contamination, it
has been necessary to design and con-
struct a special germ-free cage for the
radiation experiments. The X-ray
beam will penetrate the wall of this
unit and radiate the animals.
Once the animals are radiated, va-
rious tests will be performed to com-
pare the effect of this exposure on
germ-free and control animals. Rats
and chickens will be the first animals
used in these experiments.
Basic scientific questions which it is
hoped might be answered during the
LOBUND research include the prob-
lems of how bacteria penetrate the in-
testinal wall into the blood stream,
and which types of bacteria are most
apt to penetrate the wall.
Lilly and Company; Bradley Dewey,
President of the Dewey and Almy
Chemical Company, Cambridge,
Mass.; Edgar Kobak, New York City
business consultant and former Presi-
dent of the Mutual Broadcasting
System; and Harold S. Vance, Chair-
man of the Board and President of
the Studebaker Corporation, South
Bend, Ind.
The LOBUND radiation sickness
project will be housed in a new “ra-
diation wing” of the Institute’s Germ-
Free Life Laboratory. The new wing,
which is nearing completion, was
built and equipped by Notre Dame
with assistance from the Atomic En-
ergy Commission.
By obtaining a better understanding
of the role played by “normal” (as
opposed to disease producing) bac-
teria in radiation sickness, LOBUND
scientists hope to pave the way for
the discovery of better methods of
control and treatment of the disease.
LOBUND research will treat that
phase of radiation sickness in which
the bacteria invade the blood stream
by penetration of the intestinal wall.
The LOBUND research project
will employ a 250,000-volt X-ray ma-
chine and a special radiation germ-

The 250,000 volt X-ray mounted above this special germ-free cage is used to
radiate experimental animals and is housed in a new wing of
the Germ-Free Life Building.


The University of Notre Dame
FOUNDATION
Founded in 1947f the Co-Ordinating Agency for the Recording
and Stimulating of Support From Alumni and Non-Alumni
Friends Has Advanced Rapidly Under Father Cavanaugh
by James E. Armstrong
NO ONE concedes more promptly
than the University of Notre
Dame Foundation that the loyalty and
support of alumni and friends ante-
dates by many years the advent of
the Foundation in 1947.
Archives of the University, the pub-
lications, the big bell in Sacred Heart
Church, bookplates in the Library,
plaques on many of the buildings, are
eloquent testimony to a generosity that
began when Father Sorin arrived on
the South Bend of the St. Joseph
River in November, 1842.
But so fast was the growth of the
University that most of these testi-
Foundation area map, showing location of 227 chairmen and 49 governors,
is checked by James W. Frick, of Foundation staff.
monials of friendship are also testi-
monials to immediate projects. And
as the University moved into its post-
war development at the close of
World War II, the scope of its oppor-
tunities argued a long-range plan that
in turn demanded a long-range agency
for effecting this plan.
The University of Notre Dame
Foundation, co-ordinating the various
channels then existing and designed to
create new channels, launched in 1947
by Harry G. Hogan, Fort Wayne at-
torney, banker and industrialist, then
president of the Alumni Association,
with the encouragement of the Uni-
versity and his board of directors, is
the long-range agency.
Many seeds, planted in the hearts
of benefactors long before the Foun-
dation, have borne fruit within the
short life it boasts. Many of these gen-
erous gifts recognize the sacrifices and
interests and influences of priests and
professors and friends now gone.
Only one function may be attrib-
uted to the Foundation, that of turn-
ing the spotlight on Notre Dame, of
bringing into clear focus the relation-
ships of what has been done with
what is being done, and what needs
doing.
This is, in brief, the function of
the Foundation.
Scientific research was established
with world significance on the Notre
Dame campus a half century before
the Foundation.
The Notre Dame literary tradition
was a by-word in American letters be-
fore the athletic tradition was born.
Benefactors — Breen, Phillips, Gush-
ing, Hurley, Gillen, Reilly — had paid
eloquent tribute to Notre Dame
achievements before 1947.
But the scope and the diversity of
the University’s program, and its op-
portunities, had become in the post-
war years a challenge to administra-
tion, faculty and alumni. Its inter-
pretation appealed for crystallization.
And the need for additional support,
to effect the program without disas-
trous delays, was early evident.
It was against this background that
the outstanding organizational ability
of Alumni President Harry Hogan
took the stage.
In January, 1947, upon his election
to the office of president of the
16
Notre Dame
Father Cavanaugh officiates at cornerstone laying of new Science Building, assisted by (left to right) Mr. Paul Gilbert, rep-
resenting South Bend-Mishawaka community; Mr. R. Conroy Scoggins, Houston, Texas, president of Notre Dame Alumni As-
sociation; Dean Lawrence Baldinger, of Notre Dame’s College of Science; Father Cavanaugh; Father Theodore Hesburgh,
C.S.C., Executive Vice-President of the University; and, Father John H. Murphy, C.S.C., Vice-President of Public Relations.
Alumni Association, he fixed Notre
Dame’s financial plight as the key
problem of the era.
In April, 1947, he appointed a
Board of Governors from Notre
Dame’s alumni, to assume responsibil-
ity for financial aid to Notre Dame
in 48 States, the District of Columbia
and foreign countries.
After discussion with Father Cava-
naugh, the need for expansion of the
support beyond the alumni was so evi-
dent that in July of 1947 the Univer-
sity and the Alumni Association, fol-
lowing a meeting of the Board of
Governors, announced the creation of
the University of Notre Dame Foun-
dation, built on the same structure,
but aimed at a broad expansion of
the program into non-alumni fields.
Father Cavanaugh was named Di-
rector of the Foundation, Harry G.
Hogan, chairman of the Board of
Governors, and James E. Armstrong
(continuing as alumni secretary), vice-
chairman.
In addition to the already existing
organization of Governors, the Foun-
dation, working through the State
Governors, launched a program of
City Committees, headed by a City
Chairman. At the present writing
there are 227 City Committees.
On September 18, 1947, the first
meeting of a Governor and his City
Chairmen was held at Notre Dame,
for the State of Indiana, and the
workability of the program established
by common consent.
In rapid order, the Alumni Board
endorsed the new program at its Sep-
tember meeting; the Local Club Presi-
dents Council at its second annual
meeting in November; and the Associ-
ate Board of Lay Trustees at its No-
vember meeting. By October, 1947,
more than 100 City Chairmen had
accepted appointment. At the end of
THE UNIVERSITY OF NOTRE DAME FOUNDATION
1948	$25,000,000	1958
DEVELOPMENT
Alumni	Other Friends
1948 		Number 		 6,973	Amount $451,898.28	Number 691	Amount $ 163,041.14
1949 			 7,517	506,231.16	1,158	1,418,310.51 492,105.70*
1950 					 6,824	2,052,384.07	2,666	380,594.76 505,400.35*
1951** 			 4,286**	103,324.64**	1,185**	152,319.07*'
^Fellowships, grants for research, gifts of equipment.
-■"For the -first half of the year, to July 1, 1951, only.
1947, the 60 Governors had been aug-
mented by 160 City Committee heads,
many of them with Committees.
The first test of the Foundation
away from the University’s home area
came with a regional meeting of the
New England State Governors and
City Chairmen in Boston in January,
1948. And in February a series of
City Committee meetings was held in
Texas. Both these areas were visited
by Father Cavanaugh and Mr. Hogan
for these occasions.
In May and June of 1948, after
Vol. 4
No. 3
17
much advance in the details of field
and campus organization, the long-
range program was announced, con-
firming the University’s need for a
minimum of $25,000,000 within a 10-
year period, to achieve the develop-
ments immediately demanding realiza-
tion.
The Foundation announced the
opening up of the channels of Annual
giving, Corporation giving, Wills and
Bequests, Insurance, and Special Gifts,
to accelerate the attainment of this
long-range goal.
Periodical backbones of the Foun-
dation are the bi-monthly Notre Dame
Alumnus (founded in 1923) and
Notre Dame, a quarterly for non-
alumni friends (founded in July,
1948).
In the Fall of 1948, the New
Science Building, a $1,750,000 project
(at that time) was announced as the
Foundation goal for 1949.
In January, 1949, after two years
of intensive, voluntary, and unremun-
erated work at the head of the Foun-
dation, Harry G. Hogan resigned his
post of Chairman along with the ter-
mination of his presidency of the
Alumni Association.
The organization carried on the
program of the Science Building, fall-
ing short of the goal for the immedi-
ate project in 1949, but exceeding the
total goal with the announcement of
other diversified gifts to the Univer-
sity.
In January, 1950, Father Cav-
anaugh appointed an Executive Com-
mittee of the Foundation consisting of
Frank C. Walker, New York City,
chairman; James E. Armstrong, Notre
Dame, (continuing) vice-chairman; J.
Arthur Haley, Notre Dame; John B.
Kanaley, New York, co-chairman and
executive director of the New York
office; and John N. Cackley, Notre
Dame.
In 1950 came the crystallization of
many of the projects contained in the
long-range program of the Founda-
tion.
A gift of $1,000,000 was announced
from Mrs. Sally Fisher to provide a
Fred J. and Sally Fisher residence
hall for students, and a $250,000 stu-
dent loan fund.
A gift from the late E. M. Morris
of $1,000,000 for a new Campus Inn
to bear his name, was announced.
And I. A. O’Shaughnessy was an-
nounced as the donor of $1,500,000
for a new Liberal and Fine Arts
Building. This building, to bear hi>
name, later received an additional gift
of $673,533 to meet rising cost esti-
mates, and all three of the above
buildings, together with the Science
Building are under construction as this
is written, to be completed in 1952.
The construction of the Science
Building was made possible by a short,
successful campaign for $500,000 con-
ducted in the St. Joseph Valley
(South Bend and Mishawaka) by the
individual, business and industrial
alumni and friends of the University.
This is a summary account of the
short years of the University of Notre
Dame Foundation.
As originally pointed out, the Foun-
dation does not claim credit for the
$7,000,000 received by the University
in gifts and grants during the period
from 1948 to the present, toward the
realization of the $25,000,000 long-
range goal.
But the accompanying chart, show-
ing this development, indicates that
the program pursued by the Founda-
tion for Notre Dame is attainable.
It shows that men and women, many
graduates, many non-graduates, are
willing to make a tangible declaration
of faith in fundamentals, as taught by
Notre Dame to the moral responsible
leaders of the future.
It indicates that men and women
are unwilling to have private educa-
tion, particularly private religious edu-
cation, driven to the doubtful recourse
of federal subsidy so long as the great
tradition of educational opportunity
through private philanthropy, which
has built up the great American sys-
tem of private education, can remain
free through necessary support.
The University’s problem, as re-
flected by the Foundation is basically
a threc-fold problem:
1.	Rising costs for established op-
eration.
2.	Maintaining operation at the
lowest possible cost to young men, tra-
ditionally some 30% below actual cost
of operation.
3.	Meeting expanding opportuni-
ties in an increasing number of fields,
and the increasingly vital challenge
of our times to moral responsible
leadership.
Only with ever-increasing support
from alumni and non-alumni, in num-
bers and in amount, can Notre Dame
come close to the great destiny that it
now confronts.
A New Notre Dame Book
The University of Notre Dame is much
more than a victorious football team,
more than a peaceful campus on the out-
skirts of South Bend, more than a group
of gray stone buildings.
For Notre Dame is a living, growing
idea—a top-ranking educational institu-
tion with a distinguished faculty and a
glowing history, filled with students from
all corners of the world, representing
many races and religions.
According to the author. Richard Sulli-
van, Notre Dame is “a kind of travel book,
but done on the spot and covering only
1,700 acres and a bit over a century.”
With the author, through the pages of
this book, you’ll stroll around the sunny
Notre Dame campus in fall, through class-
rooms, dormitories, Vetville, Rockne Me-
morial, Log Chapel, the Grotto, the fire
house, and the ticket office on the day of
a football game.
You will be introduced to the diverting
pasttime of selling radiators in student
rooms to unsuspecting freshmen at rates
varying according to the degree of
gullibility.
Among the men profiled here are:
Father Edward F. Sorin, the founder of
Notre Dame; Jerome Greene, a faculty
member who sent the first wireless message
in America; Father Julius Nieuwland, the
noted chemist and botanist; Knute K.
Rockne; and Father John W. Cavanaugh,
the ninth president of the University.
All of these—and the rich traditions—
are Notre Dame.
18
Notre Dame
ONE of the world’s most prom-
ising institutes for higher stud-
ies and research . . . with a rather
straightforward purpose ... is Notre
Dame’s Mediaeval Institute.
It is engaged in a thorough study,
according to the best modem methods,
of the long tradition of Christian cul-
ture which is still, consciously or un-
consciously, the vital factor in the day-
to-day living of many people.
The clearest expression and the
most virile embodiment of that tradi-
tion to be found in history occur dur-
ing the Middle Ages. That is why
they afford the most promising field
for investigating the roots of Christian
thinking and Christian living.
The Faith which Christ delivered
to His Church has shaped and formed
western civilization through long ages
of prayer, study and work. We Amer-
icans belong; to that civilization. It
is the inheritance which our fore-
fathers brought with them from their
European homelands.
Although the world at large (our
country, too) has lost a great deal of
that which gave vigor and strength
to that legacy of Christian thought
and life, the cultural capital upon
which we live is nevertheless the spir-
itual and intellectual wealth of the
inheritance, amassed through cen-
turies of Catholic thinking and Catho-
lic living.
To rebuild and increase that capi-
tal, to restore vitality and power to
those Christian traditions of living
and thinking, to recapture that cul-
ture and adapt it to the needs of our
own age and to protect it against
false and subtle ideologies, foreign
and hostile to its very spirit, a thor-
ough, painstaking and laborious effort
is required. We need to achieve a
clearer understanding and a deeper
appreciation of the treasures of
knowledge we have inherited from the
Christian past and of the rich prin-
ciples of humane Catholic living to
which we have fallen heir.
To become the center of the most
“. . . rendering available . . . accurate information about the Ages of Faith J’
highly developed Catholic scholarship
seems to have been inscribed in the
destiny of this venerable institution
from the days when the courage,
vision and holy daring of its founder,
Father Sorin, first envisaged the estab-
lishment of a great center of Catho-
lic learning and culture in this coun-
try. Today that courage and that
vision are fully justified in the crea-
tion of the Mediaeval Institute.
It proposes to bend all its efforts to
unearthing, interpreting and render-
ing available to this twentieth century
accurate information about the Ages
of Faith: to reach a precise under-
standing of the thought which guided
the development of Catholic culture
in the Middle Ages and the motives
which gave direction to the lives of
mediaeval men; to gain a thorough
knowledge of the institutions which
grew up in those ages of Catholic
civilization; to acquire a just and ac-
curate appreciation of their art and
of the culture which they fostered. In
a word, to discover and trace the
workings of lofty human purposes,
guided by Christian ideals, through
all the aspects and phases of a basic-
ally Catholic civilization and to trans-
late the underlying principles of that
Christian culture into the language of
contemporary men, in order thereby
to bring its influence to bear upon the
personal problems of present-day liv-
ing and upon the broader social, eco-
nomic and political problems which
confront nations and peoples the wide
world over.
One of the most Important and Fascinat-
ing Developments in Modern Education
The Mediaeval Institute
19
New Liberal Arts and
Engineering Program
A cooperative liberal arts and en-
gineering program of studies, believed
to be unique in Catholic education,
will be effected in the 1951-52 school-
year by the University of Notre Dame
and the College of St. Thomas, St.
Paul, Minn.
The new joint program was an-
nounced simultaneously by the Rev.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C., President
of Notre Dame, and the Rev. Vincent
J. Flynn, President of St. Thomas.
Under the new program of studies
a student may begin his college edu-
cation at St. Thomas, and after three
vears of liberal arts studv transfer to
the College of Engineering at Notre
Dame for his final two years of spe-
cialized training in his chosen branch
o
of engineering. Upon the successful
completion of the joint five-year
course, the student will receive simu1-
taneously the degree of Bachelor of
Science in Engineering from Notre
Dame and the Bachelor of Arts de-
gree from St. Thomas.
The new program is believed to be
the first venture of such cooperative
programs between two Catholic educa-
tional institutions.
Mr. E. M. Morris Dies
After Long Illness
Ernest M. Morris, of South Bend,
Ind., alumnus, trustee and benefactor
of the University of Notre Dame, died
May 3, in South Bend Memorial Hospi-
tal after a long illness.
Mr. Morris, Chairman of the Board
of the Associates Investment Com-
pany, last year gave Notre Dame
$1,000,000 for the construction of a
new Inn to house visitors to the Uni-
versity campus. The Inn, to be
known as the Morris Inn, currently
is under construction at the entrance
of the Notre Dame campus and is
scheduled for completion in No-
vember.
NOTRE DAME, a new book by
Richard Sullivan, (see page 18 of
this issue), will be on sale after Sep-
tember 10, 1951, at leading book
stores throughout the nation. Mail
orders may be sent to the Notre
Dame Book Store, Notre Dame, In-
diana. Price: $3 including postage.
N. D. Freshmen Wins Top
Academy Entrance Honor
A University of Notre Dame fresh-
man has finished first in the United
States in a test among students from
Naval R.O.T.C. units in colleges and
universities throughout the nation to
determine those who will receive ap-
pointments to the United States
Naval Academy.
Word has been received at Notre
Dame from the Department of the
Navy that George J. McMurtry, of
Rockville, Ind., who just completed
George J. McMurtry
his freshman year in the College of
Engineering at Notre Dame, made
the highest score among the 156 naval
students from 52 Naval R.O.T.C.
units in the United States. Mc-
Murtry is a member of the Naval
R.O.T.C. unit at Notre Dame, which
is commanded by Captain Thomas
F. Conley, Jr., USN.
Art Professor Elected
To World Famous Group
Professor Stanley S. Sessler, Head
of the Department of Fine Arts at
the University of Notre Dame, has
been elected to membership in the ex-
clusive Royal Society of Arts in
England.
The Royal Society of Arts, whose
patron is England’s King George and
whose president is Princess Elizabeth,
was founded in London in 1754.
Purpose of the elite society is to en-
courage the cultural developments in
art on an international scale, and to
maintain and stimulate interest in art
education and improvement in artists’
materials and techniques.
The Religious University
(Continued from page 5)
Men may learn readily how to do,
but the consequences of their acts, the
reasons for them, the direction that
they take, are as important as the acts
themselves. It is the difference be-
tween doing for the sake of doing, or
for some material gain, or doing by
guidance, by an acknowledgment of
God’s intent that action be restrained
by morality and designed toward serv-
ice for mankind and for God.
The atomic scientists faced this
problem when they were frightened
by the consequences of their work.
It did not occur to many of them
that their work was an inevitable
fruition of the mental growth of the
human mind and spirit and that they
could not have discovered what the
era in which they lived was not ready
to receive. They could think only of
the death they wrought; in time, they
will know of the life-saving and life-
giving richness they unfolded.
The religious university is not lim-
ited by bigotry. The best courses in
Marxism in the United States were
given at Notre Dame. The Institute
of Natural Law does not avoid the
implications of a non-Ghristian ap-
proach to the problem. The scientific
courses, particularly in atomic fission,
are as modern at Notre Dame as at
the University of Chicago. Under the
leadership of Bishop O’Hara and the
two Fathers Cavanaugh, who have
been my friends, Notre Dame has de-
veloped tremendous power as a uni-
versity of the spirit as well as of the
mind.
Religion does not require the sup-
pression of knowledge but its system-
atic inclusion in the entire body of
human culture, and directed to a
moral end. The religious university
does not surround knowledge by big-
otry; it absorbs all knowledge in the
whole of truth. It rejects the limita-
tions placed upon science, for in-
stance, that it exists for itself alone,
as some artists used to say that art is
for art’s sake alone. It says that what
exists is for the use of man and the
glory of God, thus recognizing in all
that exists, a moral purpose.
20
Notre Dame
Studying the Soviets
A Symposium on the World’s Number One Problem
Dr. Naum Jasny, former Soviet statistician.
THE world’s number one prob-
lem, Soviet Russia, was the sub-
ject of a symposium sponsored by
Notre Dame’s Committee on Interna-
tional Relations. The nation’s out-
standing experts on Russia convened
on the Notre Dame campus to pre-
sent a comprehensive series of lec-
tures designed to cover the entire
scope of the problem. Acting as
chairman for the symposium was Rev.
John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.G., President
of Notre Dame.
“The very existence of Soviet Rus-
sia threatens the entire world with a
catastrophe,” the first speaker, Doctor
Waldemar Gurian, told the audience.
Dr. Gurian, Russian-born chairman of
Notre Dame’s Committee on Interna-
tional Relations, is the author of nu-
merous scholarly articles and books on
the Russian problem.
Second speaker on the symposium
was Dr. Michael Karpovich, of Har-
vard University, who described the
background of thought control in
Russia.
Third speaker of the symposium
was Dr. Istvan D. Kertesz, a former
diplomat for Soviet satellite Hungary,
now teaching at Yale University. He
outlined the methods of Soviet pene-
tration in Eastern Europe.
Dr. Philip Mosely, staff specialist in
Columbia University’s Russian Insti-
The Rockefeller Foundation, through
a grant of $69,000 to the University
of Notre Dame for study of interna-
tional relations, partially financed
the symposium on Soviet Russia. In
accordance with the terms set by the
Rockefeller Foundation, a Committee
on International Relations has been
organized here, to direct research in
the interrelations of religion, democ-
racy and international order. It will
also devote particular attention to
the rise of political religions in the
twentieth century. The symposium
addresses are available in book
form from the University of Notre
Dame Press.
tute and a presidential adviser at
many Big Three conferences, told of
the way in which Russia has capital-
ized on national conflicts in Eastern
Europe.
Fifth speaker on the symposium
was Dr. Naum Jasny, now of Stan-
ford University but once a statistician
for the Soviet government, who told
the group that the Soviet government
is expending more than 60 per cent of
its income on state investment and
armed forces compared to only 42
per cent a little more than 10 years
ago.
Dr. Vladimir Petrov, who spoke on
Soviet terrorism, is a man who knows
his subject first-hand. He was six
years a prisoner of the Soviet govern-
ment in Siberia.
Dr. Petrov, who now teaches at
Yale, said that no one in the Soviet
Union is free from the fear of the
ever present secret police.
Final speaker on the symposium
was Father Francis Dvornik of Har-
vard University. He went one step
farthei' in attempting to demonstrate
the historical basis for Church-State
struggles within the Iron Curtain
countries.
Vol. 4
No. 3
21
(Notre Dame’s long-range needs as outlined in "The Substance
of Things Hoped For," omitting those projects achieved ’48-'52)
I.	BUILDINGS	HI.
1.	Auditorium
2.	Memorial Library
3.	Administration Building
4.	Three (3) Replacement Residence Halls
5.	Student Union Building
6.	Additional LOBUND Buildings
7.	Priests Residence
IL ENHANCED FACULTY ,	IV
Endowment Funds for
1.	Salaries for Teachers in Research
Programs
2,	Graduate Professorships
3.	Distinguished • Service Professor-
ships
4.	Visiting Professors and Lecturers V.
SPECIAL FUNDS
1.	Library Maintenance (including pur-
chase of books)
2.	Subsidy of Learned Publications
3.	Teachers Retirement Program and
Sick Benefits
4.	Employee Retirement Program and
Sick Benefits
STUDENT AID PROGRAM
1.	Scholarships for outstanding under-
graduates
2.	Scholarships for graduate students
3.	Post-doctoral scholarships for ad-
vanced study
GENERAL UNRESTRICTED ENDOWMENT

IMMEDIATE NEEDS
ft
Father
Cavanaugh Testimonial Fund
$1,750,000
750,000
350,000
150,000
$3,000,000
MAINTENANCE
LAUNDRY
Notre Dame, Indiana
CORBY HALL
2
8
8
University of Notre Dame
Foundation,
— —
FIRE STATION
J
DRILL HALL
SCIENCE HALL
POST OFFICE
HOWARD HALL
ENGINEERING BLOC
ALUMNI
LAW BUILDING
stadium
MORRIS INN
For new and
and water
augmented heat, power
facilities....................
For the new Science Building equipment
and increased construction costs ........
For equipment for buildings made
possible by generous benefactions
For added sewage-disposal facilities
Anyone desiring to
contribute to the Father
Cavanaugh Testimonial
Fund please make checks
payable to the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame and
mail to the:
OLD COLLEGE
GROTTO

SACRED
“ HEART
g CHURCH
MORRISSE
ROCKNE MEMORIAL
FISHER RESIDENCE HALE
IMMMHMRl Steam additions needed.
Present steam facilities.
INFIRMARY
XAHM|HALL
4
ADMINISTRATION t
BUILDING S
8
CAVANAUGH «
HALL
ashington
*
%
HUODLE
ARCHITECTURE
BREEN .PHILLIPS HAW
GYMNASIUM
SCIENCE
BUILDING
COMMERCE BLDG. I CHEMISTRY BUILDING
O’SHAUGHNESSY LIB. St
FINE ARTS BLDG.
Water additions needed.
KZZZZrSi Present water facilities.



PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS