Notre Dame
SPRING •	1951
Crime Comes in All Sizes
Hugh P. O'Brien......................3
President’s Page
Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C. .	6
The Reilly Lectures
Dr. Charles C. F ice.................7
Holy Smoke Eaters
Lawrence E. McDermott ....	8
Artists Are Born
Hugh Schadle...........................10
On the Air
James A. Carrig and
James F. Kingsley ...... 12
The Bengal Bouts
Carl A. Eijert.........................16
The Singing Irish
John H. Janowski ...... 18
VOL. 4 • NO. 2
The University of Notre Dame
UNDERGRADUATE SCHOOL
The College of Arts and Letters • Department of Religion; Department of
Philosophy; Department of English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern
Languages; Department of History; Department of Economics; Department of Politi-
cal Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education; Department of Physi-
cal Education; Department of Art; Department of Music; Department of Speech; De-
partment of Journalism; Department of Naval Science; Department of Military Science
(Air Force).
The College of Science • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics; Department of Geology.
The College of Engineering • Department of Civil Engineering; Department
of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engineering; Department of
Chemical Engineering; Department of Architecture; Department of Metallurgy; De-
partment of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Drawing; Depart-
ment of Engineering Mechanics.
The College of Law.
The College of Commerce • Department of Accounting; Department of Busi-
ness Administration; Department of Finance; Department of Marketing.
GRADUATE SCHOOL
The Arts and Letters Division • Department of Philosophy; Department of
English; Department of Classics; Department of Modern Languages; Department of
History; Department of Music.
The Social Science Division • Department of Economics; Department of Po-
litical Science; Department of Sociology; Department of Education.
The Science Division • Department of Biology; Department of Chemistry;
Department of Physics; Department of Mathematics.
The Engineering Division • Department of Metallurgy; Department of Civil
Engineering; Department of Mechanical Engineering; Department of Electrical Engi-
neering; Department of Aeronautical Engineering; Department of Engineering Me-
chanics; Department of Chemical Engineering.
• • •
The Mediaeval Institute of the University of Notre Dame is a foundation estab-
lished within the University by the authority of the President of the University and his
Council for the study of the thought, history and culture of the Middle Ages.
The LOBUND Institute • Constitutes a research organization of full-time
scientists effecting a program in Germ Free Life, Micrurgy, and Biological Engi-
neering, which is concerned with many basic and applied problems of importance
to biology and medicine.
For additional information write to The University
of Notre Dame Foundation, Notre Dame, Indiana.
Cri m e
Comes in All Sizes
Students in Notre Dame's Curriculum of Correctional
Administration Learn How to Stop Crime Before
It Starts, as Well as How to Handle Criminals
By Hugh P. O’Brien
Photos by Bruce Harlan
EVERYBODY is interested in
crime. The names of Sam Spade,
Perry Mason, Boston Blackie, and
the Fat Man are better known to most
Americans than the names of the Jus-
tices of the Supreme Court. In the daily
press, it’s crime news that gets most
of the local readership. Murder stories
and crime movies attract millions. But
you might say that public interest in
crime is just on an entertainment level.
Except for occasional crusades, citizens
are generally indifferent toward crime
and the administration of criminal jus-
tice.
This attitude has been changed some-
what by recent disclosures of the close
bonds between crime and public life,
POLICE RECORDS are inspected by a gradu-
ate student for possible “leads” in his case
work. Local agencies and authorities are
eager to cooperate, since the case work is
of mutual advantage to the students and
the community.
taSMMMtafal
1	but it probably hasn’t changed enough.
Our Western way of life depends on
।	law and order, and crime threatens our
democratic institutions by undermining
|	this foundation. It’s a big danger.
|	The University of Notre Dame has
been aware of this danger to our inter-
j	nal security for a long time. As far
back as 1929, Notre Dame pioneered
in establishing the first undergraduate
university program designed specifical-
ly to prepare young men for careers in
probation. In 1947 the University
formed its present graduate curriculum
in Correctional Administration, within
the Department of Sociology. This
change placed the program on a pro-
fessional basis in the graduate school
and extended it to include training in
the fields of parole, you'h corrections,
and correctional institutions.
Today, the program at Notre Dame
represents the experience of two dec-
ades in the field of correctional work.
Courses of study were decided upon
only after consultation with national
authorities in the field of correctional
administration.
The care with which Notre Dame ar-
ranged this curriculum has produced
satisfying results. A warden in one of
the best-administered penal institutions
in the country praised it in these words:
“I recognize the difference in train-
ing readily. With your boys I don’t have
to spend the first six months pulling
them out of the ivory towers in which
other students seem to remain after
leaving the university campus.”
And a consultant for a national cor-
rectional organization added: “I was
t	4 Notre Dame

amazed at the knowledge your men dis-
played about the historical growth and
development of corrections. They actu-
ally made me afraid to take part in any
lengthy discussions, lest I display my
own lack of background.”
The Notre Dame curriculum was de-
signed to combine theory with practice
and to avoid narrow specialization. Its
classroom training includes study in
such subjects as Juvenile Delinquency,
Social Psychiatry, Probation and Parole,
Character Education, The Family, and
Administration of the Correctional In-
stitution. The department has also been
fortunate in having the cooperation of
the Notre Dame College of Law, which
permits students from our program to
pursue its regular course in Criminal
Law and Procedure. A knowledge of
this material is invaluable to a good
worker in correctional administration.
The city of South Bend and the sur-
rounding area, with a population of
about 150,000, affords excellent opportu-
nities for field work training in various
settings. The Juvenile Court, the Bu-
reau of School Social Work, the County
Welfare Department, the Mental Hy-
giene Clinic, the Federal Probation and
Parole Service—all furnish splendid
training facilities.
In 1950 a parochial school counseling
bureau was established in conjunction
with the South Bend clergy. Staffed by
Notre Dame graduate students, the bu-
reau works with the cases of socially
deviant pupils and their families to
bring about proper adjustment in school
and community life.
Here the student works with all kinds
of juvenile deviants—the shy, introvert-
ed children as well as the “bad-boy
type”. Sometimes a very quiet child—
with no disciplinary record at all—is
just as far from proper personality de-
velopment as his boisterous companions.
In the Juvenile Court, the student gets
first-hand experience at handling chil-
dren whose behavior problems have been
serious enough to warrant legal action.
Text book cases come alive, and the
Notre Dame graduate students have re-
sponded excellently to the new experi-
ence. As a result of a study made by
five of our students on the policies and
procedures of the local juvenile court in
1949, a major revision of practices was
brought about.
In all of his relationships with clients
the student develops confidence in him-
self, learns to apply classroom theory,
and collects case material on which
future classroom discussion can be
based. Besides this, the agencies in
South Bend are a good pattern of the
social agencies found in most large
cities. Contacts with theii’ activities
give the student a clear idea of their
functions and trains him to use theii’
resources intelligently.
To give an example of just what the
local field work might involve, take the
real-life case of nine-year-old Johnny B.
The case was referred to us by the prin-
cipal of a local parochial school, who
told us that the boy was “a queer type”.
He daydreamed constantly, and he was
failing in all his classes.
During his first interview with the
student case worker, Johnny centered
most of his attention on a couple of
pebbles which he kept shifting from one
hand to the other. When asked about
the pebbles, Johnny went into a lengthy
explanation of how he had brought them
from Texas . . . where he said he had
been a member of a cowboy gang led by
Gene Autry. Then he said that he
wasn’t afraid of anybody, and that he
had a big stick (bigger than the 6-foot
student, he claimed) hidden in his bed-
room at home. He said that he was
planning to use it against his parents
if they ever tried to punish him again.
As far as he’d say, he had only con-
sidered using this stick against his
father and mother, because he explained
that “they both hate me, I guess.”
Needless to say, there was no stick
in the clothes closet. Here was just a
frightened, insecure little boy, trying to
hide his fear and insecurity behind an
imaginary weapon. Johnny B was an
only child, who had been rejected by his
mother' at birth. She had wanted a
daughter, and she vented her frustration
on Johnny and his father.
Johnny’s early years were filled with
memories of strenuous physical discip-
line. Constant whippings, chronic fault-
finding, and repeated statements that
he was “no good” played havoc with
Johnny’s personal development. The dis-
cord and strife between his parents
added to the bad psychological effect.
Solving Johnny’s problem chiefly in-
volved work with his parents. It in-
volved a lot of tactful discussion and
explanation. The result—not entirely a
Cinderella ending, but a gratifying one
to the extent that Johnny’s mother has
tried to change her attitude. Johnny’s
father has also accepted more responsi-.
bility for the child’s care and rearing.
Whether or not the graduates decide
upon a career in exactly this type of
work, the training secured during this
field work program is of great impor-
tance. Theory is valuable, of course, but
it becomes more valuable if chances for
direct application are at hand. In this
training the student meets with all kinds
of problems found among socially-mal-
adjusted persons, both child and adult.
Notre Dame’s special training in this
respect is characterized by a philosophy
too. The
the Notre Dame program,
CLASSROOM
THEORY plays a big part in
background which it affords the students has been praised by national leaders
A
Uli

LlLL
gram. No scholarships are offered to
prospective students, either.
The men who enter the curriculum
at this University accept the financial
burden of three semesters of graduate
study, which shows clearly the strength
of theii' ideals. A healthy indication
that their humanitarian attitude is a
lasting one lies in the fact that they
continue work in this vital field. Our
graduates are employed in all phases
of public and private correctional work.
They are on duty as probation and
parole officers for both state and fed-
eral governments ... as guidance offi-
cers
and counselors ... as classifica-
in correctional
administration.
tion experts and correctional educators
. . . and as junior administrators in
state and federal prison systems.
But there is still a lot of room for
expansion in Notre Dame’s program.
Some day we hope to conduct a com-
prehensive study of the relation between
religion and crime—to evaluate the
effect that moral guidance may have in
preventing crime.
Another project for the future is the
establishment of a non-college-credit in-
stitute to train law enforcement offi-
cers in the proper handling' of juveniles.
The need for such instruction makes it
clear that an institute of this nature
of treatment which is lacking in most
similar courses. The Notre Dame grad-
uate upholds the doctrine of moral re-
sponsibility. His training is based on a
belief in man’s free will. He knows that
environment alone doesn’t make a crim-
inal. He understands that a man can
overcome great difficulties and tempta-
tions if he sincerely wills to do so.
Correctional work is humanitarian.
Most of our graduates cannot look for-
ward to a professional career in which
financial rewards are high. Salaries in
The author has been the director of
Notre Dame’s graduate curriculum in
correctional administration since it was
founded in 19L.7. Previous positions in-
cluded that of a case researcher for the
Children’s Aid Society of New York;
director of education at New York’s
Clinton Prison; and various jobs with
the New York State Division of Parole.
He also delivered a number of lectures
for the FBI before local Police Training
Institutes. A few weeks ago Professor
O’Brien was named to the Committee on
Personnel Training of the American
Prisons Association, a group established
to set up model curricula in correctional
administration for colleges and univer-
sities all over the country.
the field compare favorably with those
of teachers, general social workers, etc.,
but they aren’t high. The worker’s
great satisfaction comes with the
knowledge that he can help someone in
need. His interest and attitude should
be patterned after the God-Man on Cal-
vary, who used the last moments of His
life to forgive and save a common thief
being crucified beside Him.
Notre Dame reflects the general in-
terest of the Church in work with the
legal offender. The problem is one which
should seriously concern every Catholic,
since many of the inmates of penal in-
stitutions in this country profess mem-
bership in the Catholic Church. Of
course we may explain the situation by
adding that many are only nominal
Catholics . . . and that one should ex-
pect a large number of Catholic inmates
since the incidence of crime is highest
in big cities, where the largest Cath-
olic populations are found. But we still
cannot avoid one question: “What can
we do about it?”
Notre Dame is contributing in a prac-
tical, realistic way by training com-
petent Catholic young men to accept
this challenge. But while the need for
such men is great, the number of grad-
uates from the Notre Dame program is
still relatively small. The University,
unfortunately, receives no public funds
to carry out its essential training pro-
would be a major contribution to com-
munity welfare. The present world sit-
uation indicates that war time condi-
tions may make this need even more
acute in the immediate future.
Proud of its pioneer efforts in the
field of correctional administration
training, Notre Dame will always con-
tinue to seek ways to improve and
enlarge its program. Our graduates have
shown up excellently in actual work so
far, and we hope that they will always
merit the praise they are receiving
right now. We hope to make them ab-
solutely tops in their field.
NOTRE DAME
Published quarterly by the Univer-
sity of Notre Dame, at Notre Dame,
Indiana. Entered as second class
matter May 10, 1948, at Post Office
of Notre Dame, Indiana, under the
Act of August 24, 1912.
James E. Armstrong, '25, Editor.
John N. Cackley, Jr., '37, Managing
Editor.
Contributors' views do not necessar-
ily reflect those of the University.
Requests to reproduce material in
this magazine should be addressed
to the Editor.
Vol. 4 No. 2. Spring, 1951
Vol. 4
No. 2
5
Building Program Shows Continued Progress
THIS issue of Notre Dame should
reach you within a few days of
Easter Sunday. To the parents
of our students, to all our readers, I
send prayerful wishes for a Happy and
Blessed Easter I
Building Report
With the coining of milder weather
rapid progress is being made both on
the E. M. Morris Inn and on the Science
Building. The former should be ready
for occupancy by November 1 of this
year; the Science Building, in spite of
extensive damage by fire several weeks
ago, is promised for late Spring or early
Summer of 1952.
Plans have been completed, and bids
are being received, for the Fred J. and
Sally Fisher Memorial Dormitory, and
for the I. A. O’Shaughnessy College of
Liberal and Fine Arts. Depending upon
acceptability of the bids and availabil-
ity of materials, these two buildings will
be started within the next few months.
The University can never be suffi-
ciently grateful to the generous bene-
factors who have made these build-
ings possible. Our alumni and other
friends are urged to help us show our
gratitude (and theirs) by contributing
and inviting contributions for the
equipping of these buildings. This is the
primary objective of the University of
Notre Dame Foundation for the current
year.
Another Foundation objective, no less
important and urgent, is the gathering
of funds for the heat-power-water
project here at the University. The
nature and magnitude of this problem,
and the cost of solving it, have been
explained in preceding issues of Notre
Dame. The current building program
must not be allowed to suffer through
failure to provide the indispensable
utility services.
The Future
Along with other educational institu-
tions, Notre Dame looks to the future
with considerable misgiving and no lit-
tle apprehension. But our apprehension
is tempered by our trust in God, and
in the Blessed Mother of God.
Student enrollment has held up sur-
prisingly well during the current aca-
demic year. Withdrawals during the
first semester were only slightly above
normal, and we began the February
semester with a student body of 4822.
That is slightly larger than enrollment
in the second semester of last year.
What September will bring, no one
knows.
Because many prospective students
have manifested the desire to get as
much college education as possible be-
fore entry into military service, Notre
Dame has made provision for accept-
ance of freshman students in the Sum-
mer Session. Although the announce-
ment was made only a week or two ago,
the interest already displayed indicates
widespread satisfaction with this deci-
sion.
We have currently at the University
three officers’ training programs: Navy,
Air Force and Marine. The Army will
inaugurate this Fall, a fourth training-
program for Engineering students only.
As yet, there is no indication that the
new program will enroll more than a
Director of the Foundation
few hundred students; or that the other
programs will expand appreciably. The
University is pleased to have these units
with us—and proud that our Govern-
ment has found Notre Dame’s educa-
tional and physical facilities suitable
for their purposes.
The Peace of Christ
It is quite likely that, within the next
few months, many hundreds of Notre
Dame students and alumni will be
enrolled in the Armed Forces. Our
Alumni Office would like to keep in the
closest possible touch with these men,
sending them periodically news letters
from the campus, notifying local Alum-
ni Clubs of the Notre Dame men in
camps and on posts in their vicinity,
performing other little services. A mil-
itary file has already been begun, and it
would be appreciated if parents kept us
informed of address changes of their
sons. These notices should be addressed
to The Alumni Association, Notre
Dame, Indiana.
But the greatest service we can ren-
der these young men is to remember
them daily in our Masses and prayers
here on Our Lady’s campus. I need not
tell you that this will be a pleasant and
privileged duty for us all.
We shall pray daily also—and in this
prayer we ask you to join us—for a
safe and speedy return of these young
men to you and to us, through a return
to the world of the Peace of Christ in
the minds and hearts of all men!
6
Notre Dame
The
Reilly Lectures
World-Renowned Scientists Brought to Notre
Dame Through Gift of Indianapolis Businessman
By Dr. Charles C. Price
IN 1945, the generous gift. of
$1,000,000 to the Department of
Chemistry by Peter C. Reilly,
founder and president of the Reilly Tar
and Chemical Company in Indianapolis,
established a series of graduate fellow-
ships and visiting lectureships in chem-
istry at Notre Dame. These lecture-
ships have already made an enviable
mark in the chemistry profession, bring-
ing the world’s leaders in chemistry to
the campus. They have given the Notre
Dame students and staff the privilege
of personal acquaintance with the great
men in chemistry and a first-hand ac-
count of their accomplishments in
science.
According to an agreement with Mr.
Reilly, a portion of the income from his
gift is used each year to provide four
graduate fellowships for students who
wish to come to Notre Dame from
other universities for work in chemistry
or chemical engineering. In addition,
it provides for one fellowship for a
Notre Dame graduate to pursue studies
in these fields at some other university.
Thus the program encourages the
Reilly Fellows to broaden their experi-
ence by seeking graduate training at a
different institution from that of their
undergraduate work.
Originally the grant provided for a
Reilly lecturer in Chemistry during one
semester of each school year. But ex-
perience soon showed that active scien-
tists of the calibre desired as Reilly
lecturers often could not arrange their
affairs so as to spend a full semester
at Notre Dame. For this reason, it
was suggested that several lecturers
appear at Notre Dame each year for
shorter periods. Mr. Reilly first ap-
proved the proposal for an initial trial
period of three years, and then estab-
lished it on a permanent basis. So
far, this plan has served to attract
many of the world’s leading chemists
with greater covenience for them and
has also given our staff and students
an even wider opportunity for personal
Mr. Peter C. Reilly
and technical contact with such men.
The first Reilly Lecturer in Chem-
istry was Professor K. H. Bonhoeffer.
Coming to us from Berlin during the
summer of the Berlin blockade, he
brought more than word of his inter-
esting researches into periodic or in-
termittent chemical reactions. As a
man who had fought for liberty against
Nazi opposition — whose family was
now threatened by Soviet aggression —
he brought us a first-hand impression
of seeing and feeling the “front-line”
New headquarters for the Chicago
Office of the University of Notre
Dame Foundation are:
36 SOUTH DEARBORN ST.,
SUITE 648-650,
FIRST NATIONAL BANK BLDG.
The Foundation office formerly was
located at 64 West Randolph.
Dr. Price has been Head of the
Notre Dame Department of Chem-
istry since 1945. Besides receiving
numerous honors and awards
from scientific groups—particular-
ly for his work in isolating several
compounds which may be capable
of neutralizing the Rh factor in
blood—he was named by the
Junior Chamber of Commerce of
Indiana as the state’s “Outstand-
ing Young Man of the Year” in
1948.
in the “cold war” struggle. Then in
charge of all university chemical re-
search in the Soviet Zone, he has since
moved to a less troubled spot — a pro-
fessorship at the University of Got-
tingen.
The second Reilly lecturer was Pro-
fessor Melvin Galvin, of the Radiation
Laboratories and the School of Chemis-
try at the University of California,
Berkeley. He spent a week in April,
1949, discussing his monumental inves-
tigation of the path of carbon in photo-
synthesis. By feeding plants and algae
carbon dioxide containing radioactive
carbon, followed by separation and an-
alysis of the compounds produced in the
plant from this radioactive carbon,
Calvin has unlocked the door to many
secrets of the vital process of photo-
synthesis. He is making significant dis-
coveries about one of the most im-
portant and challenging reactions
known to chemists, without which all
life would long since have ceased to
exist on earth. It was a great priv-
ilege to have this first-hand account of
one of the most significant research
programs of our times.
Professor George Kimball, of Colum-
bia University, followed Calvin. He
was at Notre Dame for a week in May,
1949, discussing “Modern Concepts of
Valence.” Dr. Kimball presented some
(Continued on Page 20)
Vol. 4
No. 2
7
Holy
Smoke
Eaters
Early one morning, the construc-
tion supervisor on the site of the
new Science Building looked out
to see flames searing away at the par-
tially finished structure. A portable
heater had tipped over, and months of
work were threatened by swift destruc-
tion. Hurriedly he picked up the phone
and dialed 200; and within three min-
utes Notre Dame’s two engine com-
panies were at the scene. Eight min-
utes later, when the first apparatus
arrived from South Bend, the campus
firefighters were already battling the
blaze with five lines of hose.
By Lawrence E. McDermott
The damage was heavy, but without
the prompt action of Notre Dame’s fire
department it undoubtedly would have
been far worse. Especially at the
start of a fire, time is precious. Sec-
onds save hundreds of dollars, and
minutes may mean lives. That’s why
the University now maintains its own
fire house and two fully-equipped trucks
right on campus.
Almost from its beginning, Notre
Dame has suffered from fires; but it
hasn’t always been so well prepared for
them. The famous fire of 1879, in fact,
forced the University to close its doors
until a new Main Building could be
erected. The South Bend Fire Depart-
ment was supposed to furnish protec-
tion for the University buildings, but it
took 'so long for the horse-drawn carts
to rumble the mile-and-one-half from
town that a minor blaze could easily
grow to dangerous proportions before
the firemen arrived.
8 Notre Dame
After the New Gym burned in 1900,
a volunteer fire department was formed
on campus. It consisted of three com-
panies, each of which had its own hand
truck and fire house. The volunteers
practiced weekly and held contests with
one another. The proud Scholastic
crowed that the department was the
“finest in the country.”
Perhaps the zeal of the nation’s finest
was all expended on practice, because
during the next 25 years fire gutted
the old Chemistry Hall and the Engi-
neering Building and burned down the
University barns.
Things soon changed, though, after
Brother Borromeo, C.S.C., became fire
marshal in 1939. At that time, there
were only the three original hand
trucks, 500 feet of rotted hose, and
Fire House No. 2, located behind the
Main Building. The first step in re-
building the fire department consisted
in buying 500 feet of new hose and
55 feet of ladders.
Brother Borromeo then suggested
that it might be well to furnish some
more modern method of transporting
the equipment. He was given an ap-
propriation, and the money was
promptly invested in an International
truck chassis. Then the Brothers and
lay workers in the University power
plant built a lean-to against the power
plant and began the work of hand-
building their fire truck.
By the end of 1940, the power plant
workers had finished their spare-time
work on the fire engine. The next
problem was equipment. Some of it
came as the result of barga;n hunting
for good used material; some of it was
given the embryo department by friends
interested in the project. When they
were finished they had a combination
engine and ladder truck with 115 feet
of ladders and 1650 feet of hose — an
apparatus capable of delivering 750
gallons per minute.
Still, when an alarm was turned in
at night, the squad of seven Brothers
had to run three blocks from their
quarters to the truck. That had to be
remedied, so in 1945 the Notre Dame
Fire Department moved into its new
home across from the power plant and
next to the Biology Building. Each of
the seven Brothers and the chaplain
now had a private room; and there was
a kitchen and chapel as well as a
combination dining and recreation room.
In the lower part of the building was
space for two engines and a room con-
taining a hose dryer and a work shop.
In 1948, a new rig moved into the
empty space beside the original truck.
The new truck had a resuscitator and
inhalator as well as a deluge gun that
could deliver a steady stream of 1200
Mr. McDermott, a native of Hay-
ward, California, graduated from Notre
Dame in January of this year after
majoring in journalism. Recently he
enlisted in the United States Army.
gallons per minute or a fine, blanket-
ing spray. Both trucks were equipped
with stretchers, extinguishers, gas
masks, nozzles and other attachments
in addition to the ladders and hose. The
fire department was complete.
An alarm turned in from one of
Notre Dame’s nine alarm boxes or St.
Mary’s three, sounds on both floors of
the fire house and also in the power
plant. Brother Emery, who does the
cooking for the Department, opens the
motor-driven garage doors. Back in the
power house the pump operator boosts
the pressure to the 55 hydrants from a
normal 80 pounds to 100 pounds.
Brothers Beatus and Borromeo come on
the run with four or five of the lay
employees from the fire house.
When the alarm sounds it strikes the
number of the box from which the
alarm came. At the same time it
punches a series of holes into a paper
tape. Before the trucks start the
drivers check the tape recorder and the
wall map on which the shortest route
to each alarm station is marked. The
trucks are on their way within two
minutes after a daytime alarm is
received.
Although lay employees serve on the
department until 4:30 in the afternoon,
the Notre Dame Fire Department is
composed wholly of Brothers of the
Congregation of Holy Cross for the
rest of the night. After the Brothers
THREE MINUTES after this blaze started at the site of the new Science Building,
the Notre Dame firefighters were on the job.
return from their jobs in the post
office, farm and printing plant, it takes
only 30 seconds to have the trucks on
the way, including the time spent com-
ing down the brass pole.
There are two special advantages in
having a fire department on the cam-
pus. The first is a matter of speed.
That’s easy to see. However, the De-
partment also has the advantage of
knowing the buildings thoroughly as a
result of their periodical fire-safety in-
spection. Many evenings in the fire-
house are spent, not playing checkers,
but discussing the best way of handling
a specific fire. Suppose it’s on the
second floor of the Main Building.
Where are the nearest hydrants? What
would be the first thing to do? Suppose
the fire were in Sorin-sub? And so on.
Because of their age many of the
campus buildings are particularly sus-
ceptible to fire. The University was
forcibly reminded of this in 1940 when
a fire began in the basement of the
Main Building and worked its way up
between the walls to the third floor
before it was halted.
Brother Borromeo attends fire-fight-
ing schools held in the region and also
visits other fire departments whenever
he can. The techniques and informa-
tion are then passed on to the other
members of the department, helping to
make them as efficient as any full-time
fire department. In fact, their activi-
ties have been written up in the Catho-
lic Digest as well as in fire-fighting
journals.
Yes, the Notre Dame Fire Depart-
ment is complete, even to having its
own mascot and honorary chief — a
Dalmatian named “Bell.” Day or night,
it’s ready to help fight the flames which
so far have not prevailed against the
University of Notre Dame.
Vol. 4 • No. 2	9
*
vs
him Mr. Kormendi smiles
simply “It is not import-
characteristic devotion of
is more eager to talk of
honors given
and remarks
ant.”
With the
an artist he
T,0 those who presume all artists
have shaggy long hair and erratic
personalities. Eugene Kormendi,
sculptor of world-wide reputation and
Artist in Residence at Notre Dame,
would be something of a surprise.
Mr. Kormendi is a mild-mannered,
very genial gentleman with the genuine
sort of friendliness that makes “plain
folks” feel at home. A caller at his
home on Washington Street is received
with warm European hospitality and is
sent away with a sincere invitation to
“Come again. We are always glad to
see you.”
But, whether Mr. Kormendi displays
it openly or not, he is an artist, and a
very distinguished one. His articles and
biographies have appeared in numerous
The author is a junior English major
from Russell, Kentucky. Besides being
a member of the Notre Dame yearbook’s
copy staff, he is ia feature writer for
The Scholastic, where this article was
originally published.
periodicals here and abroad. His work
has been exhibited in nearly all the
larger cities of the United States and
Europe, earning him many high awards.
These honors include the Silver Medal
from the International Exhibition at
Barcelona and the gem of Hungarian
awards, the Polonia Restituta. Aside
from these he has received prizes in the
United States: in Milwaukee, Palm
Beach, Chicago and many other leading
cities. Unable to remember all of the
Artists
his work. His most important accom-
plishment is a statue of Queen Elizabeth
of Hungary which he did in Hungary
some years ago. He has also done war
memorials in that country and a giant
statue of the Blessed Virgin. Mr.
Kormendi’s latest work was done in
Fort Wayne where he contributed eight
figures for a newly-built Chapel ad-
jacent to the Cathedral of the Immacu-
Are Born
By Hugh Schadle
10 Notre Dame
late Conception. He also "arved a figure
of Christ giving a blessing from a huge
stone pillar in front of the chapel.
Mr. Kormendi was born in Budapest,
Hungary, where he spent his early life
and studied at the College of Industrial
Art after finishing high school. In the
following years he was located at vari-
ous universities throughout Europe, de-
veloping and perfecting his art.
“I studied at Paris, Rome, Berlin, and
many other places,” Mr. Kormendi re-
calls. “It is necessary that one study



and discipline himself constantly if he
is to develop his art. A good priest and
a good artist are much the same, Each
is always pursuing his work.”
In the first world war Mr. Kormendi
served in the Hungarian army as an
army sculptor. He did numerous por-
traits of many of the leading Hunga-
rian generals, and at one time was
working deep in Russia when the Hun-
garian forces had penetrated into that
country. After the war he continued
studying and working in Europe until
1939, when he came to the United
States.
“My wife and I came to America as
visitors. While we were on the ocean
we heard that the 'German armies had
marched into Poland. After I had been
received at Notre Dame as an artist
in residence, we decided to stay. We
have been here since that time.”
During his eleven years at Notre
Dame Mr. Kormendi has taught several
students who are now prominent sculp-
tors, while continuing his own work. He
now teaches a few regular classes for
students of architecture.
There were several interesting com-
ments Mr. Kormendi made on art in
general. Asked the very prosaic ques-
tion, “Why is an artist an artist?”
Mr. Kormendi explains that art is
simply a means of expression.
“A man is either an artist or he is
not,” Mr. Kormendi declares. “One can-
not be taught to express himself through
art. If he is a born artist, it will ‘come
out.’ But art can only be cultivated and
disciplined and never literally ‘taught’
as one may be taught the multiplica-
tion tables. Just as the best gardener
cannot grow peaches on a pine-tree,
so the best teacher cannot make an art-
ist of a person who has no native abil-
ity.”
Mr. Kormendi further clarifies the
artist’s position by mentioning the prim-
itive arts.
“The primitive artist could have had
none of the formal training which is
given the artist today. And yet the
(Continued on Page 19)


AT LEFT: Sculptor Eugene Kormendi
views the statue he completed for the
College of New Rochelle. TOP RIGHT:
President Truman receives Kormendi
plaque in recognition of haven found
in U. S. by displaced persons. BOT-
TOM RIGHT: Workmen place 22-foot
high statue of “Christ, the Light of the
World,” done by Kormendi, in its
niche in front of the NCWC Building,
Massachusetts Ave., Washington, D. C.





The time was 8:41 p.m. The disk
jockey behind the glass partition
was saying, “Guys, you know Joe
Shelly’s coming on in fifteen minutes
with Request fully Yours and the rec-
ords you’ve asked for. Joe says he has
room for eight more requests tonight
— what’s -wrong out there? If you want
’em, phone ’em in. The number’s 361.”
At 8:55 the telephone was flooded. A
couple of minutes later the disk jockey
asked urgently, “Please, fellows, no
more calls.” And at 9 o’clock the engi-
neer in studio B cued in the program
whose Hoopei- rating is several points
higher than Jack Benny’s at its best.
Even at that, Requestfully Yours
probably isn’t the most-listened-to pro-
gram coming from Notre Dame’s cam-
pus radio. That night, as every night,
the students manning WND had been
broadcasting since 12:30 in the after-
noon. They would be at it until 10:15."
And chances are, if on a given floor of
Sorin Hall there -were 20 radios turned
on, 16 would be tuned to WND. The
other four — well, a few people here
still listen to network broadcasts.
The success story of WND is the fa-
milial- one of disappointments heaped
on failures, of crude beginnings and
homely improvisations. If you approve
of college students with initiative you’ll
like it.
In the fall of 1947 it began. During
the previous twelve years members of
the Radio Club had been broadcasting
occasional shows from the Engineering
Building, over a remote transmitter op-
erated by WSBT in South Bend. It
was nothing they could call their own.
That fall, sophomore Frank Cronan be-
gan wheedling. He wheedled a few dol-
lars (no one remembers how few) from
the Student Activities Council and
bought some 300-ohm wire for carrier
current, because the Federal Communi-
cations Commission prohibits the use of
air -waves by small unlicensed stations.
Four Radio Club members began laying
it underground.
“Underground” consists of 15 miles
of steam tunnels. Preparing the circuit
was a matter of creeping along, taping
the wire to a steampipe, often in mud
and a 110-degree temperature. In a
month about two miles of wire had been
laid to thirteen residence halls. With
headquarters in the basement of Wash-
ington Hall, WND started broadcasting
before Thanksgiving 1947 — on its own
power.
But not for long. The little ten-by-
ten compartment that was WND had
been loaned by the Notre Dame band,
which had daily practice in the adjoin-
ing room. Theii- schedules overlapped,
so just before Christmas the station
thanked the band and walked over,
equipment in pocket, to a booth in
Notre Dame stadium.
On The A
Student-Operated Station Brings Musi
News, and Variety Shows to Campi
By James A. Carrig and Janies Fa ]
Theii- tenure in the stadium was even
shorter. One night, to be exact.
That was the night an engineer got
his wires crossed. Not a student in
the university heard WND’s formal ded-
ication, but the rectors of 13 residence
halls got a load of it — every time
they picked up a telephone. Next
morning the station was without a
home again.
With designing eyes cast to the old
Fieldhouse, station members appealed
for university aid. They got it. A
studio and a control room were built
atop the Fieldhouse, new equipment
was bought, and in February, 1948, the
campus radio began transmitting from
the rent-free, noise-free location it still
holds. Paying its own bills, the sta-
tion soon built an additional studio;
bought six new microphones, tape-re-
cording equipment, and two new turn-
tables.
Then, for two months right after
last Christmas, campus listeners heard
nothing from the familiar “630 spot.”
12
Notre Dame
-A—
‘•The quality of reception will be 25
times better now, and we can operate
much more economically,” Saul figures.
The total job may have been worth
seven or eight thousand dollars, but
WND spent less than $350.
If you move back in to Studio B
and talk to assistant station managei’
Bill Ryan you will hear nothing but
the word “Thesaurus.” Thesaurus is
the name R.C.A. gives to its packaged
radio service. Small stations like WND
get complete scripted shows by name
performers in platter form, audition
records, singing station breaks, and
advertising aids. This takes the bur-
den off the local staff and makes WND
programs sound like the big time.
“With the help of Thesaurus, our rec-
ord library now totals some 9,000 se-
lections. We get 60 new records each
month from them,” Ryan points out.
It was patience, grit, and drive
which built WND and gave it material
success, but which only partly explains
its popularity. A station of students
and by students has won half the fight,
but to drum up listeners (thereby get-
ting sponsors) it has to be for stu-
dents. That big library is WND’s
answei' to the problem. For evidence
look at Static, the station’s one-page
“newspaper” first published late in
1949. Every week Static is posted on
all campus bulletin boards with squibs
like these:
“SUNDAY
MONDAY—At 8:30 tune in the Cam-
pus Digest, a recorded-on-the-spot
summary of the week’s happenings,
done in the Ed Murrow—“I Can
Hear It Now” method.
TUESDAY — The Jerry Costello
Show—popular music arranged and
presented by the local talent boys.
And what talent! 8:30 p.m.
WEDNESDAY—Two old favorites on1
the WND program schedule. The
Barber Shop Quartette from 8:30
to 9 and Music for You from 9:30
to 10.
THURSDAY, like every day, is full
of Thesaurus shows, such as ALLEN
ROTH, STAN KENTON, BING
CROSBY, ARTHUR FEIDLER, and
FRAN WARREN (who has just
about the nicest voice you’ll ever
want to hear).
FRIDAY—TELEQUIZ—8:00 p.m. If
you know the tune when we call,
you win a prize. Stay tuned at 8:30
for good old southern jazz.
SATURDAY—What’s that — you say
you’re not on the air on Saturdays?
Well, not ordinarily—but WND will
carry all home baseball games, Sat-
urday or not. Next home game is
with Iowa.”
The key to student listenership, as
you might observe from Static, is re-
corded music. The program schedule
Jr
de, Sports,
us Radios
Kingsley
WND was off the air. “We technically
built a complete new WND,” says tech
« engineer Johnny Saul. Johnny was
[ one of four student technicians who
. contributed about 2,500 man-hours re-
[ building the transmitter and installing
an entirely new control panel, a built-
in “intercom” system, and a new crys-
tal (to insure pinpointed tuning). They
set up an induction system to carry
WND to the halls along the cold water
pipes instead of the old 300-ohm wire
which was becoming pretty battered.
MONDAY
TUESDAY
WEDNESDAY
THURSDAY
FRIDAY
SATURDAY —
I LOVE YOU
that’s the way the song goes, and
those lyrics express pretty much the
kind of service WND gives you.
Here are a few examples of what
we mean:
SUNDAY—This is WND’s longest day.
13 hours of music—all kinds. From
12 to 4 call in your requests. We’ll
play ’em.
The co-authors of this article, both
senior journalism majors, are regular
WND veterans. Mr. Carrig is the sta-
tion’s business manager, while Mr.
Kingsley has served as publicity direc-
tor and editor of its weekly publication,
“Static.” Both are former members of
the Notre Dame Scholastic staff, and
Mr. Kingsley has also been a contrib-
utor to Notre Dame’s literary maga-
zine, The Juggler.
of WND’s 63-hour -week shows an 18
to 1 preponderance of records over' live
shows, and the man-with-the-textbook
thinks that is just fine. It is so fine, in
fact, that on an average night WND
9,000 SELECTIONS are included in WND’s j
growing record collection.
TWO MILES OF WIRE were stretched along tunnels like these—and some only
half this size—io carry the early broadcasts of WND. Above, a student techni-
cian is at work on the new induction system, which will
soon replace the wire and improve reception.
can count on being heard by over 60%
of its potential listeners, according to
an audience survey conducted by Pro-
fessor Wesley Bender, Head of the
Department of Marketing. To any-
one who follows radio surveys this is
an extraordinary figure.
Happily for the station, the figure
also impresses advertisers. Through
WND they can talk to a big, intelli-
gent, and homogeneous audience, whose
tastes and habits are easy to gauge.
And there seems to be a feeling of
“we-ness,” peculiar to a body of col-
lege students, that prompts them to re-
spect what is advertised over “our”
radio station. Prodded by WND’s en-
thusiastic business staff, eight South
Bend merchants are now paying the
station’s way at $1.75 per commercial,
or $5.00 per 15-minute show.
But WND isn’t smug. New deals,
like a recent $1,000 contract with a
national record company, are being
hatched by station members every
week. Last winter they broadcast
three basketball games—Northwestern,
DePaul, and Loyola — from Chicago
Stadium, and the NYU game from
Madison Square Garden. They have
personally inteiwiewed Ann Blyth,
Vaughn Monroe, Mel Torme, Jim
Britt, and Mel Allen. Besides home
basketball and baseball games, they
broadcast name bands from the Palais
Royale in South Bend. Proceedings of
campus forums and lectures are often
carried. Campus, world, and sports
news are aired regularly by the news
staff, which uses a new Western Union
sports ticker, and the facilities of
WSBT in South Bend. The campus
Radio Workshop, directed by faculty ad-
visor Jerome Fallon, presents live dra-
matic snows.
Plans for WND’s future include a
national wire news service right into
the studios, and transmission across
the “Dixie” Highway to St. Mary’s
College.
And all this while, the station will
be turning out experienced broadcast-
ers, engineers, writers, and business-
men at the clip of 20 or 30 every year.
Its announcers have chattered part-
time over South Bend stations WSBT
and WHOT, and one of its graduates
is a successful radio and television an-
nouncer at the NBC station in To-
ledo, Ohio.
So perhaps the “success story” of
WND is bigger than the station itself,
bigger even than the change of climate
it has brought to the Notre Dame
campus. Maybe its best success is
given to those who have built, nour-
ished, and maintained it.
Father and Son Give
Physics Lab to Notre Dame
Two mid-western businessmen have
donated funds for a Physics Theory
Laboratory in Notre Dame’s new
Science Building, it was announced re-
cently by the Notre Dame Foundation.
The benefactors are James M. Morrison
and his son, James R. Morrison, both
officers in the Morrison Construction
Company of Hammond, Indiana.
The gift was arranged through the
efforts of Britton I. Budd, a member of
the Notre Dame Foundation in Chicago
and the University’s Advisory Board
for Science and Engineering.
T. E. Bra niff Gets
High Church Honor
T. E. Braniff, city chairman of the
Notre Dame Foundation in Dallas,
Texas, and president of Braniff Air-
lines, has been invested as a Knight of
the Holy Sepulchre. The Order of the
Holy Sepulchre is one of the most dis-
tinguished in the Church, and member-
ship is confined to those who have done
outstanding work for the advancement
of Catholicism.
The investiture ceremonies were pre-
sided over by His Eminence Francis
Cardinal Spellman, archbishop of New
York.
Jordan in For Moose Krause
John Jordan, ’35, has succeeded
Edward W. Krause, ’34, as basketball
coach at the University.
Krause stepped down as basketball
head to devote more time to his job as
athletic director. He and Jordan were
teammates in the ’30’s and Jordan left
a coaching position at Loyola of Chi-
cago to take the Notre Dame post.
After graduation Jordan coached
Mount Carmel of Chicago to three
Catholic High School League cham-
pionships and to two city crowns.
Last April he replaced Tom Haggerty
at Loyola.
14
Notre Dame
Two New Notre Dame Books .
For the many years since he received,
his J. D. from the University’s College
of Law, through the practising and
teaching career that brought him back
as its Dean, Clarence E. Manion has
been a clarion voice of God in govern-
ment, a disciple of the Declaration of
Independence and a valiant champion of
the Constitution.
Arthur Conrad, a Notre Dame alum-
nus from Chicago, was one of those long
familiar with Dean Manion’s pronounce-
ments, and aware of their vital appli-
cation to the critical years through
which we are moving. As President of
the Heritage Foundation, he was in-
strumental in bringing together a col-
lection of manuscripts, articles and ad-
dresses, and the Dean in person. From
a most happy coincidence of copy edit-
ing and the author’s ability to provide
sequence and coordination, a small vol-
ume appeared, attractively titled and
timed—The Key to Peace. ($2)
Neither author or publisher was ap-
parently aware, in the modest throes of
the first edition, of the power of their
creation. But hardly had the volume
appeared, when it was identified as a
simple but almost startling articulation
of the fundamentals of American phi-
losophy for which partisans, propagan-
dists, but most of all the people, had
been groping.
The book is American, rather than
Catholic in a sectarian sense. And while
any Catholic can find in it the rich roots
of religion that guided the thinking of
our Founding Fathers, the sensational
reception of the book stems from its
quick adoption by men of all races and
creeds and walks of life.
Bishops have sent it to statesmen.
Pulitzer prize editors have sent it to
other editors (a rare tribute in the pro-
fession) .
Clergy, labor leaders, big and little
business, educators, leaders in organi-
zations that are striving for a strong
America in the light of its real herit-
age, have been phenomenally and volun-
tarily vocal in their praise of the book.
The Washington Times-Herald, the
Booth papers in Michigan, and other
media, are running or planning to run
the book serially. Like a lighthouse that
serves big boats and little boats, freight-
ers and pleasure craft, the enthusiasm
for The Key to Peace has been as uni-
versal as is the hope for peace.
WHEN the Symposium on Soviet
Russia was held at Notre Dame
fourteen months ago, J. Edgar
Hoover considered it important enough
to send a personal representative to the
two-day series of talks. Upon receiving
a detailed report of the proceedings, the
FBI chief sent a congratulatory letter
to the President of Notre Dame, which
said in part:
“There is a real need in the academ-
ic world to go forth to study and an-
alyze, calmly and objectively, Soviet
ideology and its Communist expression
here in the United States. Your Sym-
posium at Notre Dame helps to meet
this need. Such a Symposium . . . helps
not only to expose the errors of Com-
munist thinking and the viciousness of
Waldemar Gurian
Communist practices, but it also re-
veals the nature of the social frame-
work in which it developed. . .
Now those same talks—praised so
highly by J. Edgar Hoover as a vital
contribution to the public’s knowledge
of Communism—have been published in
book form by the University of Notre
Dame Press. Edited by Dr. Waldemar
Gurian, they represent a compact, read-
able summary of Soviet background,
ideology and methods.
Some of the talks have been ex-
panded. The section which discusses re-
sults of Russia’s “Five-Year Plans” has
been supplemented with tables of sta-
tistics. The entire book has also been
carefully footnoted to show the source
of each fact, each opinion, each con-
clusion.
The Soviet Union is not just “an-
other one of those books” about Russia
—the kind that ramble through hun-
dreds of pages just to say that Com-
munism is a bad philosophy. It repre-
sents an attempt to show ^vhy it is bad
. . . how it is bad . . . how it got where
it is now and exactly what it is doing
now that it’s there.
To a reader who is hazy on Marxist-
Leninist theory, Dr. Gurian’s opening
chapter, “From Lenin to Stalin,” will
provide an especially clear exposition
of what it is, how it has evolved, and
what it means to the individual. For the
more advanced student of Soviet ideol-
ogy, it gives a refreshing summary. The
other chapters are more detailed, and
their scope is broad. Here are the topics
they cover:
“Historical Background of Soviet
Thought Control.”
“Results of Soviet Five-Year Plans.”
“Soviet Exploitation of National Con-
flicts in Eastern Europe.”
“Methods of Soviet Penetration in
Eastern Europe.”
“Aims and Methods of Soviet Terro-
rism.”
“Religion in Russia, 1941-50.”
“Church and State in Central Eu-
rope..”
Only 216 pages long, The Soviet
Union is a masterful combination of
brevity and completeness. It will be a
timely and worthy addition to any libra-
ry. ($3.50)
Vol. 4
No. 2
15

For a few days each spring, the
Notre Dame Field House looks like
a miniature Madison Square Gar-
den. The stands are packed, and extra
seats are jammed in around the boxing
ring, where students in eight weight
classes punch it out for the annual
Bengal Bout championships. But there
the resemblance stops. The gate re-
ceipts — which sometimes reach over
$5,000 — don’t go to the boxers and
promoters. The entire profits are
turned over to the Holy Cross missions
in Bengal. You see, boxing at Notre
Dame is different!
Bouts
By Carl A. Eifert
Preparations for the Bengal Bouts
begin during the fall semester with the
appointment of a promoter. He is
chosen from the membership of the
Notre Dame Council of the Knights of
Columbus, which has charge of the
bouts. He is always a student, as are
all of the other committeemen who
work to put on the best boxing show
possible.
Soon after Christmas the student
boxers start signing up for the bouts,
16
Notre Dame
and training begins. Before any stu-
dent is allowed to skip rope oi' do a
single pushup, a certificate of physical
soundness is required from the univer-
sity physician so that no heart or
asthma attacks occur.
Meanwhile the student Mike Jacobs
gets business preparations under way.
The publicity chairman begins to let
the university and local boxing fans
know that another tournament is not
far away. The program chairman so-
licits advertisers for the program. The
headaches just commence for the ticket
chairman, who has to find sponsors for
the printing of the tickets, check with
sales agencies in downtown South Bend,
and see that there is a ticket for each
folding ringside chair and each space
in the bleachers. The student in
charge of concessions worries about
how many cases of coke and how many
bags of peanuts he can sell.
All this while the fighters are un-
dergoing tough conditioning workouts.
Roadwork, calisthenics, bag punching,
rope skipping are all required by the
trainer before any real contact work is
done by the fighters. This precaution is
taken to keep down injuries. It has
worked too, for in 19 years the Bengal
Bouts have been entertaining Notre
Dame and South Bend there has been
no serious injury.
The author, who works as a student
assistant in the Department of Public
Information at Notre Dame, was co-
chairman of publicity for the 1951 Ben-
gal Bouts. After his graduation from
Notre Dame in June he expects to
start a career in journalism in his
home town, Columbus, Ohio.
Helmets, both in practice and the
actual bouts, are proof of the inten-
tions of the promoters to keep the box-
ing on the plane of skill and sports-
manship. Rough house and blood-
letting are frowned upon. Even the
mat is doubly padded to insure against
head injuries — the plague of the pro-
fessional. At all times during the
bouts there is a doctor at ringside to
tend any cuts or nosebleeds which
might develop into something serious.
Intercollegiate rules are followed to
the letter, which means that a match
is stopped if any blood is drawn. The
result of these precautions is a good
brand of clean, sportsmanlike boxing.
Everyone is pleased — fans, school
authorities and parents. But besides
providing entertainment and deciding
the boxing champions of the university,
the Bengal Bouts have the important
result of helping the Holy Cross mis-
SAFETY IS STRESSED throughout the Bengal program. The result has been dean,
lively scraps—with no serious injuries in the past 19 years.
sions in Bengal, a remote area which
is now a part of Pakistan.
It’s difficult to imagine the primitive
conditions faced in Bengal by the
priests, Brothers and nuns of the Con-
gregation of Holy Cross in their
quest foi’ souls. The region is subject
to extremes of wetness and dryness.
During the rainy season the floods of
the Ganges force the missionaries to
travel from their centers to the hinter-
lands by boat. In the dry season the
torrid tropical sun bakes the earth,
making it almost unbearable for the
temperate-born missionaries. There are
always wild beasts and poisonous
snakes to battle. Even houses are not
safe from invasion by the reptiles.
Bringing Christ to the pagans is diffi-
cult and arduous enough without the
constant battle with natural forces
which are unfamiliar to the American
missionaries.
To help these missionaries in Bengal
is the real purpose of the yearly fight-
show. Last year the profits from the
charity boxing show provided them
with about $5,000. This year’s goal
was $7,000.
Strange as it may seem, organized
boxing at Notre Dame was begun by
the greatest name in football, Knute
Rockne. As athletic director, “Rock”
organized an intercollegiate boxing
team in 1923. Because of a lack of a
coach the team was dropped after the
1926 season. After that boxing was
confined to the status of an intra-
mural sport.
The Student Activities Council pro-
moted a boxing tournament to name
the champion boxers until 1932. In
that year the student weekly news
magazine took over the sponsorship for
the benefit of the Bengal missions.
This marks the actual beginning of the
Bengal Bouts. The Knights of Colum-
bus, Notre Dame Council 1477, became
the promoters in 1946.
Many sports celebrities have ap-
peared at ringside during these years
to act as honorary referees. Among
them have been boxers Billy Conn,
Tony Zale, and ex-Bengal bouter Max
Marek, who once kayoed Joe Louis in a
C.Y.O. tournament. Others include
referee Arthur Donovan, Arch Ward
of the Chicago Tribune, and Notre
Dame football coaches Elmer Layden
and Frank Leahy.
Three years ago the Annual Bengal
Bout Recognition Award was instituted
as a citation for work among boys.
The first winner, Tony Zale, former
world’s middleweight champion, was
given the award for his work with the
Catholic Youth Organization in Gary,
Indiana. Last year, Bishop Bernard
J. Sheil, auxiliary bishop of the arch-
diocese of Chicag’o, received the plaque
for his work in founding the C.Y.O.
and its boxing program. John J. Cont-
way, Executive Director of the Knights
of Columbus Supreme Council Boy Life
Bureau, received the award this year.
Yes, boxing is really different at
Notre Dame. The matches are run by
the students themselves. The true
spirit of the sport is preserved by rules
and safety measures. The profits go
to the Bengal missionaries.
Let othei’ schools have their inter-
collegiate boxing teams. Let the Gar-
den have its professionals. Notre Dame
is proud to keep the Bengals.
Vol. 4 • No. 2	17
The
By John H. Janowski
The house lights dim, the audience
quiets, and the curtain opens.
There, dressed in white ties and
tails, stand forty members of the Uni-
versity of Notre Dame Glee Club,
awaiting the signal from their director
to present another formal concert.
Year after year this scene is re-
enacted in concert halls and auditoriums
throughout the country. Each year this
group of talented and versatile male
singers spreads the name and fame of
Notre Dame to thousands of new lis-
teners.
The story of the Notre Dame Glee
Club began in 1915 when Ward Perrot,
a Senior Law student, organized a
twelve-voice chorus for informal song-
fests on the ND campus. Among his
companions in this venture was Hugh
O’Donnell, football star of the era and
later the Rev. Hugh O’Donnell, C.S.C.,
President of Notre Dame.
TELEVIEWERS ALL ALONG THE CBS NETWORK saw and heard the Notre Dame
Glee Club again this year on Easter Sunday night. It was the songsters’ second
appearance on Ed Sullivan’s "Toast of the Town” Show.
The Glee Club’s appearances were
confined to the campus of the Univer-
sity for many years after its founding.
When Joseph J. Casasanta became di-
rector of the Glee Club, however, hori-
zons widened. Mr. Casasanta planned
annual concert tours for the organiza-
tion, and by 1928 the Glee Club was
touring the East and the Midwest
each year.
In 1936 the Notre Dame Glee Club
made its first radio appearance over
the coast-to-coast facilities of NBC on
the “Fireside Theatre” show. Since
that time the ND songsters have ap-
peared on nation-wide broadcasts over
every radio network and over the tele-
vision network of CBS.
The present Notre Dame Glee Club
is directed by Daniel H. Pedtke, f.a.g.O.,
head of the Department of Music. Mr.
Pedtke has been in charge of the group
since 1939, when he came to Notre
Dame after a distinguished career in
vocal and instrumental music through-
out the Midwest.
The 1950-51 version of the “Singing
Irish” is just about the same as in
recent years: an organization of more
than 75 voices, a concert group of 36
or 40 members, several concert soloists,
a member-accompanist, and the direc-
tor. This year, in spite of the war,
the concert group contains a majority
of Glee Club veterans, and director
Pedtke is enjoying one of the most suc-
cessful years to date.
Each year it has been the custom for
the Glee Club to leave the campus for
two long concert tours. These tours
are the highlights of the club’s activi-
ties and come between semesters and
during the Easter vacation period. This
year’s between-semesters trip took the
ND songsters southeast for concerts in
Evansville, Ind.; Miami, Vero Beach;
Ft. Lauderdale, and West Palm Beach,
Fla., and Greenville, Miss.
At Easter this year the Glee Club
appeared in formal concert in New
York City, Pittsfield, Mass., Buffalo,
N. Y., and Cleveland, Ohio. A special
feature of the trip was the club’s sec-
ond appearance on Ed Sullivan’s “Toast
of the Town” TV show on Easter Sun-
day night in New York. The ND men
co-starred with Phil Spitalny’s All-Girl
Orchestra in presenting Handels Hal-
lelujah Chorus and The Battle Hymn
of the Republic.
The Glee Club also offers at least
two formal concerts on campus during
each school year — one at Christmas
and another before Commencement. Be-
sides this, the “Singing Irish” appear
at football pep rallies, University ban-
quets and special concerts in nearby
cities.
The arrangement of concerts is car-
The author is a senior in journalism
at Notre Dame. Besides .being publicity
manager of the University Glee Club
he is associate editor of the Notre
Dame Scholastic and author of the
regular column “The Week” in that
magazine. He is a native of South
Bend, Ind.
18
Notre Dame
ried on by the Glee Club officers, who
work in conjunction with Rev. Joseph
A. Kehoe, C.S.C., Vice-President in
Charge of Student Affairs and chaplain
of the group. The officers draw up
contracts, plan budgets, secure accom-
modations, and do everything to make
the singing year pleasant and eventful,
as well as financially secure.
The current president of the club is
William S. Sahm, of Evansville, Ind.
He became head man when Thomas J.
Boyle, of Raton, New Mexico, was
called into the armed forces at the
close of the first semester.
The groups that sponsor Glee Club
appearances are many and varied. Any
organization desiring a concert usually
communicates directly with the club
and is informed promptly whether or
not the singers are able to appear in
the city in question at the time de-
sired. The success of most concei’t
tours depends on practical concert
scheduling to avoid excessive and tiring
travel hours.
Before the year is over, the Notre
Dame Glee Club will sing at least six
more formal concerts. For those who
have heard them perform, it is not
necessary to reecho their plaudits; for
those who haven’t, a memorable expe-
rience awaits them.
When the “Singing Irish” appear on
stage, they sing and Notre Dame smiles.
Artists . . . Are Born
(Continued from Page 11)
primitives have created great art . . .
beautiful art. The basic necessity for
art is native ability and not formal
training, although technical discipline
and formal training are certainly im-
portant.
“I think it may be said that the sculp-
tor, or the painter, does perhaps re-
quire more technical training to develop
his art fully than does the musician,
for instance. It is important that the
musician have an 'ear’ and an instinct
for composing. There have been many
child prodigies in the musical field while
there has never been one in the field
of sculpture. In both the arts a native
ability is basic, but the sculptor re-
quires a longer period of training and
discipline before his art reaches great-
ness. Both the painter and the sculptor
must spend a great deal of time learn-
ing what might be called the ‘instru-
ments’ or technique of their art.”
Concerning modern art Mr. Kormendi
judges the new abstract school to be
very “interesting.”
“Modern art,” he says, “is concerned
principally with the outline of form
and lines in the model. The field, of
-----laetane Medal-----------------------
Notre Dame Honors Texas Executive
As Year’s Outstanding Lay Catholic
John Henry Phelan, Sr., a business
executive and philanthropist from
Beaumont, Texas, has been announced
as the 1951 recipient of the Laetare
Medal, awarded annually by Notre
Dame to the year’s outstanding Amer-
Mr. John Henry Phelan, Sr.
ican Catholic layman. He succeeds
General J. Lawton Collins, Chief of
Staff of the United States Army, as
winner of the award.
In announcing the University’s choice,
the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
president of Notre Dame, added:
“Mr. Phelan is an outstanding ex-
ample of a successful business execu-
tive who is humbly devoted to his
Faith. Throughout his career, Mr. Phe-
lan has shared his material wealth
with the Catholic Church, not only
toward the construction of new
course, is new as a trend in art, and one
cannot say just what it will develop.
But I find abstract art a very fascinat-
ing study.”
With regard to the future Mr. Kor-
mendi is completely satisfied with Notre
Dame.
“This is our home now. We enjoy
traveling over the country occasionally
churches throughout the nation, but
toward the development and upkeep of
struggling parishes in small communi-
ties. His philanthropies always are
marked by a deep humility and seldom
are made public. In addition to his
contributions to the Church, Mr. Phe-
lan and his family are daily Communi-
cants and exemplary members of the
Catholic Faith.”
Born in Charlotte, N. C., on Decem-
ber 11, 1877, Mr. Phelan was educated
at St. Peter’s Convent in Charlotte. He
was married on June 15, 1905, to Han-
nah Cunningham, of Braidwood, Ill.
The Phelans have three children, John
H., Jr., Anthony McDade and Margaret
Myers (Mrs. Randolph Compton Reed),
and twenty-three grandchildren.
The Laetare Medalist served as Gen-
eral Manager of the Phelan Grocery
Company in Beaumont from 1913 to
1926, and now is Chairman of the Board
of the company. From 1916 to 1933, he
v/as Secretary-Treasurer of the Yount-
Lee Oil Company in Beaumont, and dur-
ing the following year served as Vice-
President and Treasurer of the organi-
zation.
Mr. Phelan currently is serving as
Chairman of the Board of the Phelan
Company in Beaumont. He also is Di-
rector of the First National Bank and
of the Nor veil-Wilder Supply Company
in his home town, and of the Standard
Brass and Manufacturing Company in
Port Arthur, Tex.
Conservative estimates indicate that
Mr. and Mrs. Phelan’s charitable con-
tributions to the Catholic Church have
exceeded $1,000,000. A particular hobby
of the Phelans has been furnishing al-
tars, organs and statues for Churches
throughout the United States. They
have donated approximately 225 altars
to these Churches.
but I plan to stay at Notre Dame and
continue my work. Notre Dame has a
very good atmosphere and spirit about
it and I am quite content here.”
(Mr. Kormendi was recently honored
by a lecture given by the prominent Dr.
Dudley Craft Watson on his work. The
lecture was delivered at the Art Insti-
tute of Chicago.
Vol. 4 • No. 2	19
Annual Writers' Conference Helps Young Authors
EVERY serious young writer wants
advice on his work from competent
critics. He is interested in the
writing principles used by successful
authors, too; and he likes to meet and
talk with men and women already well
established in the field of creative writ-
ing and publishing.
The Writers’ Conference, sponsored
each summer at Notre Dame since 1949,
gives him a chance to do all of these
things. Through a series of workshops,
plus individual attention to manuscripts,
the Conference brings students in con-
tact with such people as Jessamyn
West, author of The Witch Diggers and
The Friendly Persuasion, and Robert
Giroux, editor from Harcourt, Brace
and Company.
This year the program will be held
from June 25 to June 30, and will also
include a special workshop in “The
Teaching of Creative Writing.” This
section is designed primarily for persons
who teach writing in schools and col-
leges, and who wish to confer with other
teachers and veteran authors and edi-
tors on the problems of that field. Other
workshops will deal specifically with
Fiction and Poetry.
Besides Miss West and Mr. Giroux,
this year’s staff will include three pro-
fessors from the Notre Dame Depart-
ment of English who have distinguished
themselves in the field of writing and
editing. They are:
Richard Sullivan, author of First Citi-
zen, The World of Idella May, and The
Fresh and Open Sky.
John Frederick Nims, whose poems
have appeared in many well known
magazines and whose poetry-collections,
The Iron Pastoral and A Fountain in
Kentucky have received wide acclaim.
John T. Frederick, long a prominent
figure in national literary circles, and
whose books, American Literature,
Reading for Writing, and Good Writing
are used in many colleges and universi-
ties as texts.
MEMBERS OF LAST YEAR’S STAFF discuss results of the Notre Dame Writers’
Conference. Left to right: noted author Jessamyn West, Professor Cassidy, and
Henry Volkner, New York literary agent.
That certainly sounds like an all-star
line-up, doesn’t it?
According to Professor Thomas E.
Cassidy, Director of the 1951 Confer-
ence, the fee for a single workshop will
be $10. All three workshops may be at-
tended for $25. Board and residence
facilities are also available right on
campus for both men and women. More
complete information can be obtained by
writing directly to Professor Cassidy.
Buttress of Faith
Urged at Symposium
The role of the Catholic Church in
international affairs was highlighted re-
cently during a two-day symposium
sponsored by the Notre Dame Com-
mittee on International Relations.
Eight nationally-prominent speakers
told the symposium audience that a
spiritual buttress of faith and con-
science must protect our people if the
United States is to remain a great
power.
The speakers at the symposium were
Dr. Yves Simon, a member of the
Committee on Social Thought at the
University of Chicago; Dr. Heinrich
Rommen, of St. Thomas College, St.
Paul, Minn.; the Very Rev. Monsignor
Harry Koenig, librarian at St. Mary’s
of the Lake Seminary, Mundelein, Ill.;
the Rev. Thomas T. McAvoy, c.s.c.,
head of the Department of History at
Notre Dame; the Rev. John Courtney
Murray, S.J., noted lecturer on the topic
of Church-State relationship in this coun-
try; Dr. Waldemar Gurian, editor of
The Review of Politics; and Dr.
Aaron I. Abell, Associate Professor of
History at Notre Dame.
Acknowledgment
In the absence of Mr. John N.
Cackley, the job of managing edi-
tor for this issue of Notre Dame
was taken over by Joseph M. Du-
kert, of the Notre Dame Depart-
ment of Public Information. The
editors of Notre Dame magazine
are extremely grateful for Mr.
Dukert’s assistance.
World Trade Experts
To Attend ND Meet
More than 100 businessmen engaged
in all phases of overseas marketing
will take part in the fourth annual
World Trade Conference, to be held on
May 10 in the College of Commerce
at Notre Dame. Finance, traffic, ad-
vertising, management, governmental
activity, and insurance will be dis-
cussed in relation to problems of for-
eign commerce during the all-day
session.
The aim of the conference is to bring
about an exchange of ideas among busi-
nessmen and educators while stimulat-
ing interest in world trade. The
speakers and discussion leaders will be
men of wide practical experience and
background in various aspects of
marketing.
20
Notre Dame
ND Enrollment Shows Slight Increase
As Colleges Shift to War Footing
Despite the war jitters being suf-
fered by college students all over the
nation, activities at Notre Dame have
been surprisingly calm. Enrollment
for the spring semester at Notre Dame
was actually higher than last year’s.
This year a total of 4,822 undergradu-
ate and graduate students were en-
rolled, as compared to 4,788 in Feb-
ruary, 1950.
Meanwhile the University began a
gradual change-over to conform with
the present mobilization effort. First
a decision was made to admit new
freshmen during the spring term; then
it was revealed that first-semester
freshmen would also be accepted for
the 1951 Summer Session. Adminis-
tration officials explained that the ex-
ceptions were being made “to afford
young men faced with induction into
the armed forces a chance to obtain
at least part of their education before
entering the service.”
It was also announced by Army
officials that a new Army Engineering
Unit in the senior division of the Re-
serve Officers Training Corps would he
Reilly Lectures
(Continued from Page 7)
interesting new concepts of how the
atoms form bonds with each other to
build up molecules.
In November of 1949, two Reilly lec-
turers visited Notre Dame. These were
Dr. Richard C. Ogg, Jr., of Stanford
University, and Dr. Frederick D. Ros-
sini, at that time with the Bureau
of Standards, but now Head of the
Chemistry Department at Carnegie In-
stitute of Technology in Pittsburgh.
Dr. Ogg’s lectures were a refreshing
view of some of the interesting and
controversial contributions he has made
to the understanding of long known
reactions. Dr. Rossini, one of the
country’s leading experts on thermo-
dynamics and petroleum, presented
both theoretical and practical informa-
tion concerning the composition of pe-
troleum and petroleum products.
During February and March of 1950
we were privileged to have with us at
Notre Dame Vladimir Prelog, one of
the world’s most distinguished organic
chemists. After leaving Yugoslavia
during the Nazi occupation, he had be-
come a professor at the Technische
activated at Notre Dame next fall.
Establishment of the new ROTC group
— with an authorized maximum quota
of 400 — would bring to nearly 1,400
the total of prospective military offi-
cers being trained at the University
for services in all branches of the
armed forces — Army, Navy, Air Force,
and Marines.
The ROTC students already on cam-
pus revived an old wartime custom re-
cently when seniors attended the tra-
ditional Washington Day exercises in
the uniforms of their outfits. It was
the first time since World War II that
military garb had appeared beside the
usual caps-and-gowns at the ceremonies.
To keep students accurately informed
on the latest draft plans and enlist-
ment rules, an Office of Military In-
formation has been set up in the Main
Building. The move was announced by
the Rev. John J. Cavanaugh, C.S.C.,
President of Notre Dame, at a special
Student Convocation called to review
student problems in the face of the
current military situation.
Hochschule in Zurich. During his stay,
he not only told us of the many in-
triguing problems in organic chemistry
to which he and the group at Zurich
have made especially significant con-
tributions but also brought to us at
Notre Dame laboratory techniques and
“know-how” of immeasurable value.
During May, 1950, we were privileged
to have another fine organic chemist,
Professor Richard Kuhn. Professoi'
Kuhn is Director of the Max Planck
Institute for Medical Research, Heidel-
berg, and long-time President of the
German Chemical Society. From the
myriad problems with which he has
worked, he discussed two which were of
current interest to him. One involved
the nature of the natural materials
affecting fertility. The results of his
work on Zwitterions (double-charged
organic molecules which are found fre-
quently in living organisms) may lead
to an understanding of many puzzling
phenomena in biochemistry.
In June, July and November of 1950,
three leading physical chemists from
England visited Notre Dame. Profes-
sor 'R. P. Bell, from Oxford Univer-
sity; Prof. D. D. Eley, from The Uni-
versity, Bristol; and Professor M. G.
Evans, of The University, Manchester,
Notre Dame Sensor Vies
For Architecture Prize
Robert P. Heisler, a Notre Dame se-
nior from Fargo, N. D., is one of twelve
finalists in the competition f or the $5,000
Lloyd Warren Scholarship in Architec-
ture. The prize consists of eighteen
months of study and travel both in
North America and abroad.
Heisler has already survived the two
preliminary eliminations which cut the
field down from 92 to 12, and is now
awaiting the final week-long problem
which will be judged May 1. The first
elimination consisted of a 24-hour prob-
lem in which the contestants were asked
to submit a complete set of plans for a
college art museum. The second was a
48-hour problem calling for a complete
set of plans for a furniture showroom.
presented details of their recent in-
vestigations.
Just last month, another eminent Brit-
ish scientist—Dr. M. J. S. Dewar—ar-
rived at Notre Dame under the auspices
of the Reilly series. Dr. Dewar, a former
staff member at Oxford University, is
now in the midst of a two-month lecture
program on dealing with recent develop-
ments in theoretical organic chemistry.
In addition to presenting the lectur-
ers at Notre Dame, the University en-
courages submission of the lectures in
manuscript form. A number have al-
ready been published by the Ave Maria
Press and others are in preparation.
Requests for these have come from all
over the world and they are sold
through the Publications -Office on the
campus,
The Chemistry Department greatly
appreciates the privilege and opportu-
nity offered through these Reilly lec-
tures ; they are among the factors which
are contributing substantially to the
reputation and future success of the
department. They bring the staff and
students stimulating first-hand accounts
of the most significant research going
on throughout the world. They bring
us the inspiration of close acquaintance
with the great personalities in contem-
porary chemistry. Through the pub-
lication of the lectures, they bring fa-
vorable notice to the activities of the
University. In the short period of
three years they have already estab-
lished a world-wide reputation and ac-
quainted leaders in science in many na-
tions with the name of Notre Dame
and the program under way in science
here. We cannot overestimate the great
importance of this wise benefaction by
Mr. Peter C. Reilly to the future de-
velopment of Chemistry at Notre Dame.
Vol. 4
No. 2	21
Eight Hundred Years' Teaching Experience
Helping Notre Dame Students in Class
Eight hundred years of teaching ex-
perience in walking in and out of the
University’s classrooms daily and it
takes only 32 persons to do it.
There are exactly 32 teachers at the
University who are working on their
second 25 years of instruction, alpha-
betically from Herbert J. Bott to Rev.
Matthew J. Wakh, c. r. c. Father Walsh,
one of the two living ex-presidents of
the University has been on the faculty
since 19C8, thereby ranking the other.-:
by Quite a few years, even counting out
the three years (1922-25) he seived as
president.
Up to June of last year Mr. Francis
W. Kerviek cf the Architecture Depart-
ment was crowning Father Walsh but
Mr. Kervick’s retirement left the for-
mer president alone in the field.
An unmeasured amount of stability
is lent to the University faculty by the
presence and active teaching of so many
2b-year men, and the Alumnus, for the
reccrd, lists them and their beginning
year of teaching here.
Herbert J. Bott, Marketing, 1926.
Rev. Eugene P. Burke, C. S. C., Reli-
gion, 1914.
Jose C. Corona, Spanish, 1915.
Gilbert J. Coty, Spanish, 1925.
Rev. Wm. F. Cunningham, c. S. c., Ed-
ucation, 1919.
Paul I. Fenlon, English, 1920.
Rev. F. M. Gassensmith, c. s. c.,
Math., 1925.
Rev. Henry Gluekert, c S. c., Latin,
1923. .
STUDENT EXCURSIONS to Washington, D. C. between semesters included a visit
to the home of Walter Trohan, of the Washington Bureau of the “Chicago
Tribune.” Among the guests were Westbrook Pegler, George Nixon, Sen. and
Mrs. Jenner, and Arthur Bergman. The trip was conducted again this year by
Dr. Paul C. Bartholomew, Professor of Political Science at Notre Dame.
Rev. Cornelius Hagerty, Religion,
1911.
Rev. Kerndt M. Healy, c. S. C., Eng-
lish, 1931.
Rev. Peter E. Hebert, C. S. C., Latin,
1914.
Frank W. Horan, Engineering, 1925.
Frank W. Kelly, Speech, 1925.
Clarence E. Manion, Law, 1924.
James E. McCarthy, Commerce, 1921.
Rev. James H. McDonald, c. s. c„
English, 1924.
Harry J. McClellan, Engineering,
1921.
Rev. William McNamara, c. S. c., His-
tory, 1926.
Rev. Charles C. Miltner, c. S. C., Phi-
losophy, 1922.
Rev. William H. Molony, C. S. C., 1919.
Rev. Michael A. Mulcaire, c. s. C.,
1923.
Rev. Raymond W. Murray, C. s. c.,
1926.
John A. Northcott, Engineering, 1922.
Daniel C. O’Grady, Philosophy, 1926.
Elton E. Richter, Law, 1926.
William F. Roemer, Philosophy, 1922.
Raymond J. Schubmchl, Engineering,
1921.
AValter L. Shilts, Engineering, 1922.
Knowles B. Smith, Geology, (Emeri-
tus) 1908.
Richard R. Vogt, Chemistry, 1917.
George J. Wack, German, 1925.
Rev. Matthew J. Walsh, History,
1908.
Korean Sees No Peace
With Communists
Despite the dispatches from Tokyo
and second-hand exporting by syndi-
cated columnists, Koreans will never?
have a fully united nation until all the
Communists are driven out.
That is the opinion of Dr. Paul
Chang, engineering instructor at the
University and brother of South Ko-
rea’s prime minister, Dr. John Myun
Chang. Dr. Paul says, “With no out-
side help, and no inside Communists—
of whatever nationality—we can re-
build our nation.
“Korea is potentially one of the rich-
est nations in the East. The industrial
north and the agricultural south, divided
by the 38th Parallel cannot exist with-
out each other. You must think of Ko-
reans as a homogenous people.
“From 1910 the Japanese tried to
make us to be like them, but as soon
as V-J Day came we were Koreans
again. Just like that. The present war
destroyed our efforts to rebuild Korea,
but we can finish the job if the Russian
and Chinese Communists are pushed
out.”
Dr. Chang says the Koreans will
never accept the establishment of a
“buffer zone” between themselves and
the Communists. Russia, Dr. Chang
says wants to stay in Korea because of
its ice-free ports, like Hungham, where
U. S. Marine and Army divisions
staged an almost miraculous sea evacu-
ation in the middle of last winter.
Dr. Chang received a Doctor of
Science degree from the University at
last January’s Commencement. Previous-
ly he had degrees from NYU and Har-
vard. His brother was chief Korean del-
egate to the UN General Assembly in
Paris in 1948 and the following year
was appointed ambassador to the U. S.
22
Notre Dame
V
2.
Laboratory ($212,000) federal funds.
8.
11.
Laboratory ($1,250,000) state appropriation.
17.
't
I
appropriation
*
OUR COMPETITION
It is in no sense of either envy or criticism that
ing figures from a Mid-West State University n
quote th,
, - tOllOW-
x ms University trains
fjotre Uame. ^t note the scope
many students as	mo4est program.
as c
V1>:
fisted »s
1. A dormitory for men ($800,000) self-amortizing.
- Nuclear research laboratory ($65,000) surplus funds.
3 Short Course dormitory ($500,000) state appropriation.
4 Enzyme Institute ($350,000) gift funds.
5.	Memorial Graduate Center ($78,000) gift fUnd
6.	Service Center ($70,000) state appropriation. *
7.	Engineering Building ($2,500,000) state
9.	150-unit faculty apartment project ($2,550,000) self
10.	Research Foundation headquarters ($650,000)	* t aXn°rti:sing.
Student center (religious) ($140,000) private. PI1Vate’
12.	Memorial Library ($4,700,000) state appropriate
13.	Stadium addition ($150,000) self-amortizing	1On"
14.	Technology center ($2,500,000) state appropriate
15.	State General Hospital ($3,500,000) state and fede
16.	Heart research center ($291,000) federal grant 9rants«
18.	Home Economics Wing ($800,000) state appropriati
19.	Chemical Eng. Bldg. ($500,000) state appropriatio^**
20.	Intern Resident Dormitory ($600,000) self-amortizing Sifts.
21.	Veterans Administration Hospital ($8,000,000) federal
22.	FM radio installations campus and State ($318,000) stat
23.	Adult education hall ($2,250,000) gift.	& appropriation
, that University says of this $32,174,000 total-.
iS highly 7«.^
rX-	the 1951 ior
rhxxxietof^^
tive progress elsewhere, how can Notre
In the face of this cons «	{	its purpose-avoid
name —in fairneSS	assist in meeting the cnhcal challenge of
asking	that is not available to the private
university*?


PRINTED AT AVE MARIA PRESS